Of civil actions, their various forms, limitations and proceedCnsr-rzn 114.

115.
116.

117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.

127.
128.
129.
130.
131.

. 132.‘

I33.
134.

135.
136.

137.
138.
139.

140.
141.
142.
148

144.

14-5.

146.

147.
148.

ings, and evidence therein.

 

Of the commencement of civil actions, indorsement and service of writs,
attachment of property, arrest and taking bail.

Of proceedings in civil actions in court.

Of justices of the peace, and their power in civil cases, and proceedings
therein.

Of the levy of executions on personal property.

Of bail in civil actions.

Of trustee process, or foreign attachment.

Of actions by, and against executors and administrators.

Of partition of real estate by supreme judicial court, and district court.
Location of reserved lands.

Of granting reviews.

Of actions of review.

Of mortgages, their redemption and foreclosure, and other liens on real
and personal estate.

Of the rights of erecting mills and mill dams, and of flowing lands, and
the mode of obtaining damages therefor.

Of inquests of ofiice, and informations for intrusions.

Of forcible entry and detainer.

Of waste, and trespass on real estate.

Of replevin of beasts and chattels.

Of bastard children and their maintenance.

Of personal property seized, and lost goods, and proceedings thereon.

Of depositions, and mode of taking them, and of witnesses.

Of commissioners to take acknowledgment of deeds and other contracts,
and depositions, in other states.

Of the selection and service of jurors.

Of the prevention of frauds and perjuries in contracts, and in actions
founded thereon.

Of recognizances for debts.

Of reference of disputes, by consent, before a justice of the peace.

Of timber and cord wood, and how it may be disposed of, in certain specified cases.

Of habeas corpus.

Of the writ of audita querela.

Of the writ for replevying a person.

Of writs of error and certiorari.

Of the action of (lower.

Of real actions.

Oi limitation of personal actions.

Of limitations of real actions, and rights of entry.

Of the relief of poor debtors.

CHAPTER 1 14.

OF THE COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL ACTIONS; INDORSEMENT AND SEEVICE OF WRITS; A'I'I‘ACI-IMENT OF PROPERTY; ARREST AND TAKING

BAIL.

An-rcu 1. Or wnrrs, AND warn: Ac--‘Snow. 2. Where actions shall be commencTIOHS MUST BE COXIENCID.

ed, if the parties live in this state.

Szc-r. 1. Form of writs.

Anrrcnr: n.

coroners’ bonds.
4-. Actions on judgments rendered in
this state. ’
5. Jurisdiction sustained, if property
be attached.
6. Where actions shall be commenced against a county.
7. Actions by a county.
8. Actions between a corporation and
. a county.
9. Actions by an inhabitant, against a
county.
10. Actions between two counties.
11. Actions between towns and other
quasi corporations.
12. Actions between quasi corporations
and individuals.
13. Actions between corporations and
natural persons.
1%. Actions for recovery of forfeitures.
15. Actions within the jurisdiction of
justices.

Or runonsmunrr or wnrrs,
arm ornsn nzquxsrrzs.

16. What writs must be indorsed.

17. Modihcation of this provision.

18. Liability of the indorser.

19, 20. Pl’0C88dlng3’ if indorser be
deemed insuliicient.

21. Writs, how authenticated.

22. Original writs may be issued by the
clerk.

23. Form may be, for attachment or
summons.

24-. Separate summons to be left, if attachment be made.

25. Writ and summons to be combined
in actions against corporations.

Anrrcu: in. Or nu: sznvrcr: or wnrrs,
yr-racnuas-r or rnormrrr, AND merosar. -rnnusor.

26. Service of original summons.

27, 28. Service, if defendant be not an
inhabitant of this state.

29. Personal estate liable to attachment.

30. Attachment of real estate on mesne
process.

31. Attachment of equities of redemption

32. Registry of attachment of real estate, within five days.

33. In such case, plaintiff ’s demand
shall be set forth in the declaration.

34. Etfect of registry alter live days.

35. Duration of attachments.

36. Attachment dissolved, by final
judgment for defendant.

Star. 3. Locality of actions on sheriffs’ or Snow. 37.

'5 .8 3.3.3 .5?-.3 .538

51.
52.

61.

62.

3-‘

68.

69.

70.

Certain attachments valid, though
die property be left in defendant's

possession. a
Property exempt hon 
Preservation of attachment on property, which cannot be removed.
Clerk to record the ollicer’s return.
Service of a writ upon a county.
Service upon a town or other quasi corporation.
Service upon other corporations.
Time of service upon corporations. Attachment of shares in a corporation.
Attachment of the franchise of
certain corporations.

. Mode of service on one of several

defendants, not an inhabitant of
this state. '

. Proceedings, where service of a

writ is defective.

. Mode of suing a person, whose

name is unknown.

. Attachments on the same writ, in

different counties.

Writs of scire facial.

Personal property attached, may
be sold by consent.

Living animals and A perishable
goods attached, may be sold without consent. ‘

55. Appointment of appraisers of
such property.

. Mode of appraisal.

Defendant may have the property,
on giving bond.

. Bond to be returned with the Writ.

Suit thereon".
Proceedings in such suit.

. Application of the money recovered.

Priority of executions.

Mode of securing the rights of
persons not parties to the suit,
but interested in the bond.
Priority of satisfaction, in case of
sale.

Surplus proceeds of sale, liable to
attachment in the o§icer’s hands.

. Defendant’s share of property attached, may be appraised, on request of another part owner.

. Property to be delivered to such!

part owner on his giving bond.

. Lien thereon, if he discharge the

attachment.

Defendant’s rights, if attachment
be dissolved.

Oiiicer to return the bond with the
Writ.

Attachment of the right of redeeming personal property.

ARTICLE I.
SECTION 1.

due.
72. Sale of property attached, when
_claimed by a third person. i

73. Attachment of certain other interests in real estate.

74. Cross actions and set-o&‘s, where
plaintiff is an inhabitant of‘ another
state.

75. Same, in case of several defendants.

76. Service of writ, in such cross actions.

77. Disposal of goods attached by an
officer, in case of his death.

73. How far goods, taken from an of‘ficer by replevin, are to be considered in his possession.

79. Liability of the plaintiff‘ in replevin on the bond, in case of judgment for a return.

80. In case an officer dies, having
goods under attachment, they are‘
liable to be further attached.

8]. Notice how ‘given, of such subsequent attachment.

82. Limitation of the right to attach

goods replevied.

83. Attachment not dissolved by defendant’s death, unless his estate
be insolvent.

84-. Officer to permit the appraisal of
the property of a deceased person
under attachment.

85. If commission of insolvency issue,
officer to return the property.

86. If he have sold the property, he
shall account for the proceeds.

87. If paid to the creditor, he shall refund.

SE61‘. 7|. Holder bound to state the amount Sum‘. 88. Set-off not allowed, in an action‘

for recovery of such proceeds. 89. Anyaction by an officer, to recover attached property, shall not
abate by his death.

90. Money, recovered in such suit, not
to be assets.

91. Proceedings, if judgment be for
defendant.

92. Attachment dissolved, by reference of the action and of all demands.

93. Also by an amendment, increasing
the claim in the writ.

94. Definition of “ final judgment,” in
an action.

Anricu iv. Or ARRESTS, nu) nut. in

CIVIL ACTIONS.

95. How bail shall be taken.

96. \Vhat bail an officer must take.
97. In what cases obligors are holden.
98. Bond to be returned with the Writ.

99. Surrender of principal before
.court.

J00. Surrender of principal by bail in a
bastardy process.

101. Freedom from arrest, on fourth of

July, and on fast and thanksgiving
days. .

102. Freedom of‘ otlicers and soldiers
from arrest on training days.

103. Freedom of electors from arrest
‘on election days.

Anmcns v. Loan’: nus.

104-. Civil process not to be served on
Lord’s days.

On wnrrs, AND wmrnn ACTIONS nrusr BE COMMENCED.
The forms of writs in civil actions shall remain, as

established in the year, eighteen hundred and twenty-one, composing the sixty-third chapter of the statutes of that year; which
chapter remains unrepealed ; but alterations may be made by the
supreme judicial court or the district court, when necessary, to
adapt them to changes in the law, or for other causes; but all
such changes shall be subject to the final control of the supreme
judicial court, which may, by general rules, regulate such changes
for said courts or for justices of the peace.

Snow. 2. When the plaintiff and defendant both reside within
the state, all personal and transitory actions shall be brought in the
county, where one of the parties lives ; and, where there are two
or more plaintiffs, or two or more defendants, the_ action may be
brought in the county, where either of the plaintiffs, or either of
the defendants lives; and, when not so brought, on motion, or inspection by the court, the writ shall abate, and the defendant shall be
allowed double costs; except as provided in the following sections.

_ Snow. 3. All actions brought on bonds, given by sheriffs and
coroners to the treasurer of the state, shall be brought in the county,
where such sheriff or coroner shall have been commissioned to act.
Snow. 4. All actions of debt, founded on judgment for damages and costs, or for costs only, rendered by any court of record
in this state, may be brought in the county, where the same was
'rendered, or in the county in which either of the parties to such
judgment or his executor or administrator may reside, at the time
of bringing such action. '

Sac-r. 5. In all actions commenced in any court proper to try
the same, jurisdiction shall be sustained, if goods, estate, effects or
credits of any defendant, named in said action, are found within
this state,'and attached on the original writ; and service shall ‘be
made, as provided in the twenty-eighth section of this chapter.

Snow. 6. Any local or transitory action against the inhabitants

,of a county, in their corporate capacity, may be commenced and
tried, either in the county where the plaintiff lives, or in the county
against which the action shall be brought.

Snow. 7. Any such action commenced by a county, may be
brought in the county where the defendant lives, unless he is an
inhabitant of that county; in which case, the action may be commenced in any adjoining county. \ _ _

Seer. 8. When any corporation shall be a party in any action,
commenced by or against any county, it shall be commenced or
tried in any adjoining county. _

SE01‘. 9. Any such action against the inhabitants of a county,
by a plaintiff belonging to such county, may be commenced and

-tried in such county, or in any adjoining county, at the plainti_ff’s
election.

Snow. 10. Any local or transitory action, by one county against
another county may be commenced and tried in any adjoining
count .

Sadr. 11. When both parties are towns, parishes or school

idistricts, the action shall be brought in the county, in which either
of the parties shall be situated.

Snow. 12. When the action is between a town, parish or school
district, and any other corporation or a natural person, it shall be

-brought either in the county, in which the plaintiff corporation is
situated, or natural person lives, or in which the defendant corporation shall be situate, or natural person lives.

Snow. 13. When one of the parties is a corporation of any

jother description, than those mentioned in the two preceding sections, the action may be brought in any county, in which such
corporation shall have an established place of business; or if either
party is a natural person, the action may be brought in the county,
in which he lives.

Sam‘. 14. Whenever any forfeiture is recoverable in a civil
action, the same shall be brought in the county, in which the
offence was committed, unless a different provision was made in
the statute imposing the same; and, if on trial it shall not appear,
that it was committed in the county where the action is brought,
the verdict shall be in favor of the defendant.

Snow. 15. Any action, commenced against two or more defend-4
ants, residing in diferent counties, and to be tried before a municipal or police court, or a justice of the peace, may be brought in}
the county, where either of the defendants lives; and the writ in‘
such case shall be executed in such counties, accordingly, by the.
proper qyicer. And any action, commenced before either of said‘
courts, shall be brought in the town where the plaintifg or some A
defendant or trustee, or the attorney commencing the action lives. A

Arrrrcu: II. 01* mnonsamanzr or warrs, AND o-ram: REQUISITES.

Snow. 16. Every original writ, writ of scire facias, writ of error, p
writ of audita querela, petition for writ of certiorari, petition for;
review, and bifl in equity, shall, before entry of the same in court,‘
be indorsed by some sufiicient person, who shall then be an inhabit-'
ant of the state, when the plaintiff or petitioner, in any of the cases.
before mentioned, shall not be an inha'bitant of the state; and if,3
pending such suit, such p‘lain.tiff or petitioner shall remove from the
state, he shall, on motion of the defendant or respondent, or any
other party to the -suit, be required to procure such [new] indorser.

SE01‘. 17. But when, in any of the cases before named, there
shall be two or more plaintiffs or petitioners, and any one of them
is an inhabitant of the state, no indorser shall be required, except
by special order of court, on motion of the other party.

Snow. 18. Every indorser shall be liable, in case of the avoidance or inability of the plaintiff or petitioner, to pay all such costs,
as shall be adjudged against the plaintiff; provided, the suit therefor against the indorser shall be brought, within one year after the
original judgment ; which suit shall be .an action on the case,
brought in the court -where the original judgment was rendered, and
a return -upon the execution issued in any such .case, by an oflicer
of the county, where said indorser lives, that ‘he had demanded
payment of the same of said indorser, and .that.said indorser .has
neglected either to pay the same, or to show said oflicer personal
property of the plaintiff, suflicient to satisfy _sa'i.d execution, or that
he cannot find said indorser within his precinct,.shal| be conclusive
evidence of the liability of said indorser in said suit ; ‘but the provisions of this and the preceding section shall not extend to any
liability, as indorser, heretofore incurred.

Snow. 19. If, pending any suit or petition as aforesaid, any in- dorser should, ‘in the opinion of the court, be deemed ‘insufficient,

they may require, that a new indorser should be furn’is‘hed, who is
suflicient, the defendant consenting that the name of the original
indorser should ‘be struck out; and the new indorser, so furnished,
shall be ‘liable for all costs, from the ‘beginning of the suit, in like
manner, as if ‘he ‘had ‘been the original indorser.

Snow. 20. If the plaintiff or petitioner shall, in any case, fail
to procure such new ‘indorser, according to the order of court, at
the time appointed. the action shall be dismissed, .and the.defendant shall recover his costs.

Snow. 21. All civil actions, excepting those founded on scire
facias, or other special writs, shall be commenced by original writs,
which shall '-be signed and sealed by the clerk and bear test of either

of the justices of the court, who is not a party; provided, that
writs issued by a justice of the peace, or judge of a municipal or
police court, shall be sealed and signed by such justice or judge.

SECT. 22. All original writs, in the supreme judicial court, and
any district court, may be issued by the clerk of said courts in any
county, as well in vacation, as term time.

SECT. 23. The original writ may be framed either to attach
the goods or estate of the defendant, and for want thereof to take
his body; or it may be an original summons, either with or without
an order, to attach the goods or estate.

SECT. 24. When goods or estate are attached on either of said
writs, a separate summons, in form by law prescribed, shall be delivered to the defendant, or left at his dwellinghouse or place of
last and usual abode, fourteen days before the sitting of the court,
to which the same writ is made returnable; which shall be a suHicient service of the writ or original summons.

SECT. 25. In actions against corporations, and in other cases
where goods or estate are attached, but in which the defendant is
not liable to arrest, the writ and summons may be combined in
one.

ARTICLE III. OF THE SERVICE or WRITS, ATTACHMENT or PROPERTY, AND DISPOSAL THEREOF.

SECT. 26. In all cases, wherein the process is by original summons, as against executors, administrators or guardians in ejectment,
dower, scire facias, error, review, and all other civil actions, wherein the law does not require a separate summons to be left with the
defendant; the service thereof by the proper oliicer, shall be sufficient, either by his reading the writ or original summons to the
defendant, or by giving him in hand, or leaving at his dwellinghouse or place of last and usual abode, a certified copy thereof,
fourteen days before the same is returnable.

SECT. 27. If the defendant was never an inhabitant of the

.state, or has removed therefrom, then the summons, where goods

and estate are attached, or a copy of the original summons, as the
case may require, shall be left with his tenant, agent or attorney,
fourteen days before the sitting of the court, as aforesaid.

SECT. 28. When the goods or estate of any person, not being
an inhabitant of the state, and having no tenant, agent or attorney,
within the same, have been attached in any civil action, any justice
of the court to which the writ is made returnable, may, in vacation,
and before entry of the action, make his order, by him signed on
the back of said writ, directing in what manner such defendant
shall be notified of the said suit and attachment; or the court, after
entry, may order such notice to the defendant, as justice may require; and such order having been complied with, and proof ‘of
the service of such notice being made to the satisfaction of the,
court, the defendant shall be held to answer to such suit, as in other

cases, where service is made, as prescribed in the preceding section.
SECT. 29. All goods and chattels may be attached, and held

las security to satisfy the judgment for damages and costs, which

the plaintiff may recover, except such as from their nature and sits

nation have been considered, as exempted from attachment, accord-«
ing to the principles of the common law, as adopted and practised
in this state, and sucli as are hereinafter mentioned.

Snow. 30. All real estate, which is liable to be taken in execu-;
tion, according to the provisions of chapter, ninety-four, may be:
attached on mesne process, and held as security for the purposes,j
mentioned in the preceding section; but it shall not be deemed
necessary that the oflicer, in order to make such an attachment,
should enter on such estate, or be within view of it.

Snow. 31. A right in equity of redeeming lands mortgaged, or‘
taken in execution, may be attached on mesne process ; and’, when:
so attached, if, before the levy of the execution, the lands, so mort-I
gaged or taken in execution, are redeemed, and the -incumbrance
removed, the attachment shall hold the premises discharged of the
mortgage or levy, as effectually as if no mortgage or levy had existed, and the premises had been attached.

SECT. 32. No attachment of real estate on mesne process shall,
be deemed and considered, as creating any lien on such estate,1
unless the ofiicer, making such attachment, within five days there-;
after, shall file in the office of the register of deeds in the county
or district, in which all or any part of said lands are situated, an
attested copy of so much of the return, made by him on the writ,
as relates to the attachment, together with the names of the parties,
the sums sued for, the date of the writ, and the court to which it
is returnable; except as mentioned in the thirty-fourth section of
this chapter. And such proceedings shall be had in such oflice by
the register of deeds, as are prescribed in the eleventh chapter,
eighteenth section.

S'nc'r. 33. N 0 such attachment, though made and notice thereof given as directed in the preceding section, shall be valid, unless?
the plaintiff ’s demand, on which he founds his action, and the
nature and amount thereof are substantially set forth in proper‘
counts, or a specification of such claim shall be annexed to such writ.

Snow. 34. But if the attested copy of the return, on the writ
made, shall be lodged in the office of the register of deeds, as;
mentioned in the thirty-second section of this chapter, then the
attachment shall take effect from the time it was made; otherwise
it shall take effect from the time when such copy of the return is
so deposited in the registry of deeds, notwithstanding it may be
after the summons or copy was served on the defendant.

SI-JCT. 35. No personal property, and no real estate, except‘

i equities of redeeming real estate mortgaged, or taken in execution,

or, equities of redemption, which have been sold on execution, on
an obligee’s conditional right to a deed of conveyanceiof real estate?
toehim, which has been sold on execution, and except property
attached and replevied, and property attached, belonging to a person dying after an attachment of it had been made, or specially
provided for in any other case, shall be held by virtue of an attach~-pent, longer than thirty days next after the day, on which final

jugment was rendered in the suit, in which the same was attached,.tobe taken in execution. - 3:02. .36. When final judgment is rendered for the defendant,
the attachment shall be thereby forthwith dissolved. Sscr. 37. When hay in a barn, horses or neat cattle, are at7_tached by a creditor, and are suffered to remain, by the permission

of the ofiicer, in the debtor’s possession, on security given for their

.safe keeping and delivery to the officer, the same shall not be sub’ject to a second attachment, to the prejudice of the first.

7 Green]. 178. 18 Maine, 125. 21 Maine, 537.

Seer. 38. The following goods and property shall be exempted
from attachment and execution ; that is to say ;—

First. The debtor’s wearing apparel, beds, bedsteads, bedding
and household utensils, necessary for himself, his wife and children;

provided, that the beds and bedding so exempted, shall not exceed

one bed, bedstead and necessary bedding for every two persons,
nor the other household furniture, the value of fifty dollars ;—

Second. The tools of any debtor, necessary for his trade or
occupation ;—

Third. All bibles and school books in actual use in the family,
and one copy of the statutes of the state ;—

Fourth. All cast iron and sheet iron stoves, used exclusively
for warming,buildings ; —

Fifth. One cow and one heifer, till she shall become three
years old, two swine, one of which shall not weigh more than one
hundred pounds; and when he owns a cow and heifer, more than
three years old, or two swine, each weighing more than one hundred pounds, he may elect the cow or the heifer, or either of the
swine, to be exempted as aforesaid ; ten sheep, and the wool that
may be shorn from them, and thirty hundred of hay for the use of
said cow, and two tons for the use of said sheep, and a suflicient
quantity for said heifer, according to its age ; —

Sixth. All produce of farms, while standing and growing, until
harvested, and corn and grain necessary and suflicient for the sustenance of the debtor and his family, not exceeding thirty bushels ;

Seventh. All the debtor’s interest in one pew, in any meetinghouse, where he and his family statedly worship ; —

Eighth. All potatoes, raised or purchased for the consumption
of himself and family ; — .

Ninth. All the firewood conveyed to debtor’s house, for the use
of himself and family, not exceeding twelve cords ; —

Tenth. One boat, not exceeding two tons burthen, usually employed in fishing business, belonging wholly to an inhabitant of
this state ;—

Eleventh. One plough of the value of ten dollars, one cart of the
value of twenty-five dollars, one harrow, of the value of five dollars,
and one cooking stove of the value of thirty-five dollars, and all
anthracite and bituminous coal, and charcoal, conveyed to any
person’s house, to be consumed in the family of such person, not
exceeding five tons of anthracite and fifty bushels of bituminous ;

Twelfth. One pair of bulls, steers or oxen, raised by the owner

S’ from his own cows, or purchased by him, before the said bulls or

steers were one year old, or by him, at any time, obtained by exchange of said bulls, steers or oxen, for others of the same age,
with a sufiicient quantity of hay to keep the same through the winter season; provided, that the said owner began to raise, or purchased the said stock, after the twenty-fourth day of April, in the:
year, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-nine.

Sscr. 39. When an attachment is made of any personal prop--‘
erty, which, by reason of its bulk or other special cause, cannot be}
immediately removed, the ofiicer may, within five days thereafter,j
file in the office of the clerk of the town, in which such attachment‘
is made, an attested copy of so much of the return made by him ,
on the writ, as relates to the attachment, together with the names:
of the parties, the sums sued for, the date of the writ, and the court
to which it is returnable ; and such attachment shall be effectual
and valid, as if the property had remained in possession and custody
of the officer. . , .

Snow. 40. It shall be the duty of the clerk to receive such
copy, and note thereon the time of his receiving it; and also re-I
cord the same in a book kept for that purpose, for which he shall
be entitled to ten cents.

Seer. 41. When a suit shall be brought against a county, the
summons shall be served, by leaving an attested copy thereof with,
one of the county commissioners, or with their clerk.

SECT. 42. In all suits against the inhabitants of any town, pariah, religious society or school district the summons shall be served \
by leaving a copy thereof with the clerk, or one of the selectmen
or assessors of the corporation sued, if there be any such officer;
if not, with any member of such corporation.

Saar. 43. In suits against all other corporations, whether created by act of the legislature, or, under a general law of the state,]
incorporated by application to a justice of the peace, for a warrant,
and, after due notice to all concerned, by assembling, under the
authority of such warrant, and thus forming a corporation and electing its officers, the summons shall be served by leaving a copy of
it with the president or clerk, cashier, treasurer, or any general
agent or director, as the case may be, of the corporation sued ; if
there be no such officer or agent, found within the county where
such corporation is established, or where its records or papers are
by law required to be kept, such copy may be left with any member of the corporation.

SE01‘. 44.. In all the cases mentioned in the three precedingf
sections, the writ shall be served thirty days before the sitting of.
the court, to which the writ iqmade returnable.

Snow. 45. When the share or interest of any person in any
incorporated company, shall be attached on mesne process, an?
attested copy of the writ, with a notice thereon of such attachment,
signed by such officer, shall be left with the clerk, cashier or treasurer of such company ; and such attachment shall be a lien on all
accruing dividends, as well as on the share; and if the officer, having the writ of attachment, shall exhibit the same to the officer of
the company having custody of the account of shares, or interest
of the stockholders, and request a certificate of the number held
by the defendant, and such officer shall unreasonably refuse to give
it, or wilfully give him a false certificate thereof, he shall pay double
the damages, occasioned by such refusal or neglect ; to be recovered against him, in an action on the case, by the creditor.

, Snow. 46. The franchise and all rights, privileges and immunities of any incorporated company, of demanding and receiving
-tolls, or other corporate property, may be attached on mesne process, and the officer making the attachment, shall leave an attested
copy of the writ, with a notice thereon of such attachment, signed
by such officer, with the clerk, treasurer, or some officer or member of the corporation, as provided in section, forty-three.

Seer. 47. When an action is commenced against two or more
persons, on a joint obligation or contract, and any one or more of
them is not an inhabitant of the state, and has no tenant, agent or
attorney in the state, service made on him, as is provided in the
twenty-eighth section of this chapter, shall be deemed sufficient,
unless further notice shall be ordered by the court.

Seer. 48. When the service of a writ is defective or insufficient,
.by reason of some mistake of the officer, or of the plaintiff, as to
the place where, the time when, or the person with whom, the
summons or copy should have been left, the court may, if they
think proper, order a new summons to be issued and served, in such
manner as they may direct; and such service shall be as effectual,
as if made and returned on the original writ.

Snow. 49. When the name of a defendant is not known to the

plaintiff, the writ may issue against him, by a fictitious name ; and
if duly served, it shall not be abated for that cause, but may be
amended on such terms, as the court shall order.
w Snow. 50. Different attachments in one or more counties may
be made successively upon the same writ, and by different officers,
before the service of the summons upon the person whose property
is attached ; but none after such service.

Snow. 51. All writs of scire faeias may contain a direction to
the officer, who shall serve them, to attach the property of those
against whom they issue, and also to arrest the bodies when liable
to be arrested, in the same manner as may be done in case of writs
of attachment.

Sec-r. 52. When personal property is attached, if the creditor
and debtor consent, the officer may sell the same before judgment,
observing the directions for selling on execution; and, when the
same property is attached by different creditors, in different suits,
the same may be so sold by the first attaching officer, or, in case
of his death, if he was a deputy sheriff, then by the sheriff or
another deputy, by the written consent of the defendant and all
attaching creditors ; and the proceeds of the sales, after deducting
the necessary expenses, shall be held by such first attaching officer,
or the sheriff, subject to the successive attachments, in like manner, as if the sale had been on-execution.

Snow. 53. When living animals, or goods liable to perish or
waste, or be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or which cannot
be kept without great expense, are attached, and the parties shall
not consent to a sale thereof, as before provided, the property so
attached, at the request of either of the parties interested therein,
may be examined and appraised in the manner following.

’ Seer. 54. Upon such request made to the officer, he shall give
notice to all parties, and prepare a schedule of the goods, and cause

three disinterested persons, acquainted with the nature and valueq
of such goods, to be appointed and duly sworn, as appraisers of I
such goods. ¢

SECT. 55. The appraisers shall be appointed, one by the cred-E
itor or creditors, one by the debtor or debtors, and one by the officer; and, if the creditors neglect to appoint one, or cannot agree,
the officer shall appoint one in their behalf, and he shall do the same,
if the debtor or debtors neglect, or cannot agree, to appoint one.

SECT. 56. The appraisers shall examine the property attached,l
and, if they are of opinion, that the same, or any part of it, is}
liable to perish, or waste, or to be greatly reduced in value by
keeping, or be kept at a great expense, they shall proceed to
appraise the same, according to their best judgment, at the value
thereof in money; and the goods shall thereupon be sold by the
oflicer, and the proceeds shall be held and disposed of in the manner before provided, in the case of a sale by consent of parties,
unless the goods shall be taken by the debtor, as provided in the
following section. ~

Sr:c'r. 57. The goods shall be delivered to the debtor, after}
having been thus appraised, if he shall require it, on his deposjting,]
with the attaching oflicer, the value thereof in money, or givingl
bond to him with two suflicient sureties, with condition, either to
pay him the appraised value of the goods, or to satisfy all such

judgments, as shall be recovered in the suits, in which the goods

were attached, if demanded within the time, during which the
goods would have been held by the respective attachments, or
within thirty days after the time, when ‘the creditors respectively
might have been entitled to demand payment out of the proceeds
of said goods, if they had been sold as before provided.

Sr~:c'r. 58. The ofiicer taking such bond, shall return the same
with the writ, on which the first attachment is made,_in like manner, as bail bonds are returned, with a certificate of his doings in
relation thereto; and, in case of a forfeiture of said bond, the
creditors, or any one or more of them, may bring an action of
debt thereon, in the name of the oflicer.

SECT. 59. The writ, in such action, shall be indorsed with the
names of the creditors, by whom the action is brought ; and in case
judgment is rendered for the defendants, execution for the costs
shall be issued against all the creditors, whose names are so indorsed, or separate executions against each creditor for his proper proportion, as the court shall consider most equitable and just.

SECT. 60. If judgment shall be rendered for the plaintiff, the
money recovered shall be first applied, under the order of court, to
pay the reasonable expenses, incurred by the creditors, in prosecuting the suit, so far as the same shall not be reimbursed by the costs
recovered of the defendant; and the residue shall belong to all the
attaching creditors, according to their respective rights.

Snow. 61. No judgment or execution shall be awarded, for the
use of any creditor, without reserving as much as may be due upon
any prior attachment, whether the creditor in such prior suit be, or
be not, one of those by whom the action is brought on the bond.

Saar. 62. Any creditor, entitled to the benefit of the bond, who

_shall not have joined in bringing the action theneon, may, after a

- judgment in such action, bring a scire facias on the judgment, and

;recover any sum, that may be due to him upon the bond; or he
may, upon his motion, at any time before final judgment in the
action on the bond, be allowed, upon such terms as the court shall
order, to become a party to the suit. .in like manner and with the
same effect, as if he had been one of the original plaintitfs, and his
name shall be indorsed on the writ accordingly, with the names of
the other creditors. But no creditor, whose cause of action on
such bond accrued more than one year before the commencement
of the action thereon, shall have judgment or execution in such
action ; and no creditor shall sue out any such writ of scire facias
on the judgment, unless within one year, after the cause of the
action shall accrue.

Sac:-;,63~.. When goods, which are sold or appraised and delivered to the debtor, in the manner before provided, shall have been
attached. by several: creditors, any one of them may demand and
receive satisfaction of his judgment, notwithstanding any prior
attachments; provided, he is otherwise entitled to demand the
money ; and provided also, that a sufficient sum be left, of the proceeds of F the goods, or of the appraised value, to satisfy all prior
attachments.

Snow. 64. When goods are sold or disposed of, either by con_ sent of parties, or after an appraisal as aforesaid, the proceeds thereof, whilst remaining in the hands of the oflicer, shall be liable tobe
further attached by him, as the property of the original defendant,
in like manner as the goods themselves would’ have been liable, if
they had remained in the possession of the oflicer ;'and' the proceeds,
so attached, shall be held and disposed of in the same manner, as
if the attachment haul been made, on the goods themselves, before
the-sale thereof; but nothing in this section shall prevent the officer
from paying over to the defendant the surplus of the proceeds of
any sale, after retaining enough to satisfy all the attachments,
actually existing thereon at the time of such payment.

Sam-. 65. When any personal property, belonging to two or
'more persons, is attached in any suit against one or more of the
-part owners thereof, it shall, upon the request of any other of the
,part owners, be examined and appraised, in the manner before

provided for an appraisement. when made at the request of any
party in the suit; except, that the part owner, who makes the application, shall appoint one of the appraisers, and the defendant
shall not appoint any.

Sam. 66;. The property shall be delivered to the part owner,

_at whose request it was appraised, upon his giving bond to the
attaching officer‘ in a suflicient penalty, with two sufficient sureties,
with condition to restore the same in like good order, or pay the
oflicer the appraised value of the defendant’s share or interest in
such property, or tosatisfy all such judgments as shall be recovered
in the suit, in which the property is attached, if demanded within
the time, during which the property would have been held by the
ncspective attachments..

Sher. 6'7. If such appraised value, or any part thereof, shall be

so paid, the defendant’s share of the property shall thereby becomet
pledged to the party to whom it was delivered ; and he may sell.
the same, if not redeemed, and shall account to the defendant furl
the balance, if any, of the proceeds of such sale.

Snow. 68. If the attachment shall, in any way, be d':ssolived,l
the party, to whom the defendant’s share was delivered, shall re-l
store the same to the defendant, or to the ofiicer, who made the‘
attachment, to be by him delivered to the defendant.

Snow. 69. The doings of the officer, together with the bond"
aforesaid, shall be returned by him in the manner above provided_,l
in the case of a bond. given by a debtor _upon the delivery of property attached ; and in case of. the forfeiture of any such bond by
a part owner, the like proceedings may be had thereon, as before
provided, upon the forfeiture of the bond given by a debtor.

Snow. 70. It shall be lawful-, in any civil action, to attach any;
personal property, mortgaged, pledged, or subject to any lien care-.
ated by law, not by law exempted from attachment, and of which
the debtor has the right of redemption, a-nd to hold the same in‘
like manner as if it were unincumbered ; provided, the attaching
creditor shall first tender or pay to the mortgagee, pledgee or holder,
the full amount of the demand, for which the said property is mortgaged, pledged. or subject to any lien as aforesaid.

S!-JCT. 71. Every mortgagee, pledgee, -or lioliler -of personal
property shall, on demand in writing made upon him by any person, desirous of attaching the same for a debt or demand against
the mortgagor, pledger or general owner, render a just and true
account of the debt or demand secured by such mortgage, pledge
or lien; and any mortgagee, pledgee or holder, who shall, after
six hours next after such demand made, unreasonably neglect to
render such account, or shall receive more than is justly due him on‘
account of the demand so secured, shall refund the excess, with
ten per cent. interest thereon, to the time of recovering judgment.

Ssc'r. 72. When any property attached on mesnc process, shall
be claimed by any person, not being a party to the suit, and such
person shall omit, for the space of ten days after notice, given him
therefor by the attaching creditor, to bring his action of replevin for
such property, the officer making the attachmenttmay, at the request
of the plaintiff, and on his responsibility, the other attaching creditors, if any, consenting -thereto, sell the same at public auction in!
the manner provided for the sale of goods on execution, in the one
hundred and seventeenth chapter ; unless the defendant shall claim
the property in his own right, and forbid such sale; but the sale
shall not impair the rights of any party claiming the property.

Sii:c'r. 73. _Not only the right in equity of redeeming lands mortgaged, but also the right of redeeming such right or equity of
redemption, after the same has been sold on execution. and also
the right of redeeming lands, levied upon or sold on (’.\'G('.lJ'=lOI“:. and
the right, title and interest which any persoii lias, l»_x_- ‘.‘li’l¥I£3 of 2?.
bond or contract, to a deed of conveyance of real estate on specified conditions, may be attached on mesne process, and thesame
l‘:3e:elht:%{i)l:l'iIt)1ll(l) Ibeer ttylyiereby created by such attachment, as if they

Sscr. 74. When an action is brought in this state by any person, who is not an inhabitant thereof, or who cannot be found
therein to be‘ served with process, he shall be held to answer to any
action brought against him by the defendant ; provided the demand in the two cases be of such a nature, that the judgment or
execution, in the one case, can be set off against the judgment or
execution, in the other.

St-:c'r. 7*’. If there are several defendants in the original action,
each of them shall be authorized to bring such cross action against
the original plaintiff; and, upon recovering judgment therein, he
may be allowed to set off his judgment against that, which may be
recovered ‘against himself and his co-defendants, in like manner, as
if the latter judgment had been against himself alone.

St:c'r. 76. The writ, in such cross action, may be served on the
person, who appears as attorney of the plaintiff in the original
action ; and such service shall be as valid and effectual, as if made
on the party himself in the state ; and, in the cases mentioned in
the two preceding sections, the court may order such continuances,
as justice may require for the defence of either of the actions, or
for setting off the demands, as therein provided.

S1:c'r. 77. Goods and chattels, attached by an officer, in case
of his death, whether remaining in his custody or taken from him
by replevin or otherwise, and also all claims for damages to goods
so taken from him, shall remain subject to the attachment in like
manner, as if the officer had lived ; and shall not be considered as
assets in the hands of his executors or administrators.

, Seer. 78. All goods taken, by replevin, from an officer who
has attached them, shall be considered as remaining in his custody
and control, so far as to be liable to further successive attachments,
_in like manner as if the goods themselves had remained in his possession; subject to the provisions in the three following sections.
« Snow. 79. In case of judgment for a return of the goods, so
replevied, the plaintiff in replevin and his sureties shall be liable
:‘for the whole of the goods, or the value thereof, although the attachment, for which they were eventually held, should have been
made after the taking of the goods by the replevin.

Seer. 80. If an officer, after making an attachment of goods,
:shall die or be removed from office, whilst the attachment remains
in force, the same goods, whether replevied or remaining in the
'possession of the officer, or of his executors or administrators, or
other person having the possession or care of them, may be further
attached by any officer, so as to bind the goods, or the proceeds
thereof, in like manner, as if the latter attachment had been made
by the first mentioned officer.

Seer. 81. The officer, making the latter attachment, shall not
take the goods themselves, but the attachment shall be made by a
return, setting forth an attachment in the common form, and stating
by whom the goods were previously attached; and, if the goods
have not been replevied, by leaving a certified copy of the writ,
omitting the declaration, and of the return of that attachment, with
the former officer, if living, or if he is dead, with his executor or
administrator, or if none are appointed, then with the person have

ing possession of the goods; or, if the goods have been replevied,(
and the officer, who made the original attachment, is dead, such‘
copy shall be left with the plaintiff in replevin, or his executors or
administrators; and the attachment shall be considered as made,
when such copy is delivered, in either of the modes before described.

Snow. 82. Goods, that have been taken by replevin from an]
attaching oflicer, shall not be further attached as the property of I
the original defendant, in any other manner than that provided in]
the four preceding sections, so long as they are held by the person
who replevied them, or by any one holding under him; unless the
original defendant shall have acquired a new title to the goods.

Seer. 83. When any estate, or goods and chattels, are attached, 1
and the debtor dies, before they are taken in execution, the attach-1
ment shall remain in full force, in like manner as if the defendant}
were alive, unless the estate of the deceased shall be represented:
by the executors or administrators of the deceased as insolvent;.
and a commission of insolvency shall thereupon issue within one:
year, next after the defendant’s death. f

Seer. 84. After the decease of any defendant, and before the:
issuing of any commission of insolvency, as mentioned in the pre-:
ceding section, the executor or administrator on the estate of the}
deceased may demand of the ofiicer, who made the attachment of -r
such estate or goods and chattels, a certified copy of the return of ‘
said attachment, and a description of such property, so particular
as to enable such executor or administrator to describe the same in
the inventory of the estate, subject to such attachment, so far as is
before mentioned; and the appraisers may also demand of such
oflieer a view of such goods and chattels, so that they may know
their value: and, if such oflicer shall refuse or neglect to comply
with either of such demands, he shall forfeit and pay, to such executor or administrator, a sum not exceeding thirty, nor less than
ten dollars. _

SECT. 85. When a commission of insolvency shall have been
issued, within one year from the death of the debtor, and such
attachment thereby dissolved, the oflicer, on demand, shall restore
the goods and chattels attached, to such executor or administrator,
to be administered according to law, on payment of his legal fees
and charges of keeping the goods.

S1-:c'r. 86. If, before any demand made on the ollicer as above
provided, he shall have sold the goods and chattels, attached by
him as aforesaid, upon execution, or any other chattel interest, or
right of redemption, he shall not be deemed a trespasser in so doing,
but shall be liable only for the proceeds of the sale, after deducting his legal fees, and charges for keeping the goods; and such
proceeds may be recovered by the executor or administrator, in an
action for money had and received.

Snow. 87. If such officer shall have paid over the proceeds to
the judgment creditor, before such demand, the executor or administrator may recover such sum from the creditor, by a similar action
for money had and received. ~

Snow. 88. In an action founded on either of the preceding
sections, the defendant shall not be allowed, in any manner, to set

_ off any demand, that he may have against the executor or admina
-istrator, or against the estate of the deceased.

Snow. 89. When an action of replevin, trover or trespass shall
be brought by an officer against any person, for taking away from
’his possession any goods or chattels by him attached, such action
shall not abate by the death of either of the parties; but may be
prosecuted by or against the executors or administrators of the
deceased party, in like manner as in actions on contract.Sr:c'r. 90. If, in such action, judgment should be recovered by

the plaintiff, the goods or money recovered shall be held and appropriated, and disposed of in the same manner, as they would,
and ought to have been, by the officer, if he had lived and recovered the same himself.
’ Sacr. 91. If judgment be rendered against the executor or
‘administrator, the goods, and damages recovered, shall be returned,
delivered and paid, in full, by the executor or administrator, though
the estate of the deceased be insolvent.

Sacr. 92. Whenever an attachment of real or personal property shall be made, and afterwards the parties in the action, by a
rule of court, submit the same action, and all other demands which
they may have on each other, to the decision of referees, andjudgment be rendered on their report, such submission and proceeding shall dissolve the attachment.

S1=:c'r. 93. If, by consent of parties, the declarationis amended,
so as to embrace a larger demand than it originally contained, and
judgment be thereon rendered for the plaintiff, the attachment
made“ on the mesne process shall be thereby .dissolved, unless it
shall appear by the record, that no claim was allowed to the plaintiff, except those stated in the writ. '

Snow. 94. The final judgment, mentioned in the thirty-fifth and’

thirty-sixth sections, shall be construed to be, that which is render-»

ed in the original action, and not such as may be rendered on review or a writ of error.

ARTICLE IV. Or ARRESTS, AND BAIL IN crvu. ACTIONS.

Snow. 95. When bail is taken on mesne process, it shall be by‘

bond to the sheriff, if the process be served by him, or his deputy,

otherwise to the officer making the arrest-, with condition that the
defendant shall appear and answer to the suit, and that he will
abide the final judgment thereon, and not avoid.

Snow. 96. No officer shall be obliged toaccept -a bail bond,.
unless signed by two sureties, at least, having sufficient property in»

the county in which the principal is arrested, or held in custody ;

and, if he shall take a bail bond, with only one surety, he shall be

liable to the plaintiff for any deficiency of the bail, though the
surety was, at the time he was taken, actually sufficient.

SECT. 97. ,A bail bond shall bind the obligors, though signed’
by only one surety, or when signed by two or more sureties,.when

all or any of them had not sudicient property in the county.

Snow. 98. The bail bond taken shall be returned with the writ,
and the clerk shall note upon the writ, that a bond is so filed.

Snow. 99. Any person, who has become bail for another, may,
before the action is entered in court, exonerate himself from all
liability by surrendering his principal to the common jail in the
county, where the arrest was made, or in the county where the
writ is made returnable, leaving with the jailer of such county,
within fifteen days after such commitment, an attested copy of the
writ or process, whereby the arrest was made, and of the return
indorsed thereon, and of the bail bond ; and such jailer shall receive
the person into his custody, in the same manner as if the officer,
who made the arrest, had committed him; and provided, that such
bail should have notified, in writing, the plaintiff or his attorney, of
the time when, and place ’where the principal has been committed,
within fifteen days after such commitment.

Sr:c'r. 1.00. In all cases of bond, given by a person, charged as
the father of a bastard child, the sureties shall have the same power
to surrender the principal, at any time, as well before entry of the
prosecution, as after, as the bail in civil actions have; and thereupon entitle themselves to be discharged from their liability.

Seer. 101. No person shall be arrested, in any civil action, on
mesne process or execution, or on any warrant of distress for taxes,
on the fourth day of July, or on the day of the annual fast or
thanksgiving.

Seer. 102. On the day of any military training, inspection,
review or election, no officer, whose duty it may be to attend, and
no soldier who is enrolled as such, liable to do military duty, and
shall have been duly notified to attend on said days, shall be arrested on mesne process or execution, or for taxes as aforesaid.

Saar. 103. No elector shall be arrested, except for treason,
felony, or breach of the peace, on the days of election of United
States, state and town oiiicers.

ARTICLE V. LonD’s nus.

Seer. 104. No person shall serve or execute any civil process,
from midnight preceding, to midnight following the Lord’s day;
but such service shall be void, and the person, executing such process, shall be liable in damages to the party aggrieved, in like manner, as if he had not had any such process.

 

Is
,.

CHAPTER 1 15.

OF PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS IN COURT.
Stew. 1. Time of entry. Provision, if the Star. 5. Bond to be given, if absent decourt be not held. fendant be defaulted, not having
2. Default of defendant, if he fail to received notice.

appear. Proviso. 6. Bond to be left with the clerk.
3,4. -Proceedings, if ‘defendant were 7. Right of review in one year, in

out of the state, at the time of ‘ such case.
service. 8. Review after a year in certain cases.

S;-,c-r, 9, i\'n pI'0r'.(-.~:.-: to abate for circum- -Sszcr. 40. What may be set 01!‘, in actions

10.
ll.

12.

13.

14-.

15.

16.

17.

18.

$335

31.

O0

8

83

2.

3 $ 3

s:.t:1uti:1'. ¢rrrHr~4.

.'\1I1-1-tuhm-nt of such defects.
.-\nu.-11il:1u-1'st', 1:‘ too many defend.'|1IiSl:.'1\rj'ln-1'11 sued.
Amendment, by adding more defendants, and service on them.
Distinction between trespass and
case abolished.

Treasurers may bring actions in
their own names.

Assignment of breaches, in actions
on bonds.

Actions for breach of certain cove- .

nants in deeds, how commenced.
Grantee, after conveyance to a
third person, not to release the
covenants of his grantor.

Defendant may plead specially, or ‘

general issue with a brief statement. Counter brief statement.
Justification in a suit for a libel.
Demurrer and joinder.

Actions for penalties.

Defendant may consent to be defaulted for a specified sum. Effect thereof.

In case of decease of a joint promissor, the contract may be sued
as several.

SET-OFF.

. Mutual demands may be set off.

Time of filing set-off. Notice to
the plaintiff.

Demand in set-oil’, how described.
Must be founded on judgment or
contract.

. What demands may be set off.
. Must have been originally payable

to defendant. Exception.

Case, in which a demand assigned
to defendant may be set off.
Amount equitably due on :1 bond
may be set off.

In what actions, set-offs may he

filed.

Set-offs, where there are several
plaintiffs or defendants.

Set-off, where there is a dormant
partner.

If p1aintiiI"s demand has been assigned, what may be set off.

. If action is brought by one person, in trust for another, what may
be et off.

. What may be set off in actions

brought by administrator.

. Recovery of balance due to the

defendant in such case.

. If the estate be insolvent, judgment not to be rendered therefor.

41.

47.

$

3% S$3 S 38

58.

59.

60.
61 .
62.
63.
64.

388

68.

69.

70

71.

against administrators.

In actions by administrators and
others in trust, their own proper
debts shall not be set off.

Issue in cases of set-oil’.
Plaintiff's defence against such
set-off.

Statute of limitations applicable to
set-offs.

No costs, if nothing be due to
either party.

. Judgment, and costs, if balance be

found due to the defendant.
Set-offs before municipal and police courts and justices.

. Plaintiff not to discontinue, after

set-oil‘ is filed.

AUDITORS.

Court may appoint auditors in certain cases.

Auditors to notify parties.
Majority may decide, after hearing
by all.

Witnesses may be compelled to
appear.

Discharge of auditors.

Report may be read in evidence.
Compensation.

. Costs to prevailing party.
. Proceedings in actions of account.

JURIES.

Arrangement and empanneling of
jurors.

Supernumeraries. Transferring or
excusing jurors.

Oath of traverse jurors.

Choice of foreman.

Talesmcn.

How returned.

New jurors may be summoned in
term time, in certain cases.
Challenge of jurors.

Manner of finding verdicts.
Proceedings if jury do not agree.
What interest will not disqualify a
juror.

Objection to a juror, when to be
made.

Irregularities in constituting juries,
not to affect a verdict.

wnnnssss.
Who may issue summonses for

witnesses.

72.

Competency, how far afl'ected by

religious belief.

'73.
74-.

Manner of administering oaths.
Persons, conscientiously scrupulens, may allirm.

Sscnon. 1 .

competent witnesses, where such
corporations are interested.

76. No improper inlluence to be exerted on jurors.

‘I7. Value of property replevicd to be
found by the jury, in certain cases.

78. Proceedings and judgment in trials on debtors’ and other bonds.

79. Interest allowable in actions of
debt on judgment.

80. No arrest of judgment.

81. Proceedings, in case of the death
of a party to an action pending.

82. Proceedings, upon marriage of a
feme sole plaintiff.

83. Proceedings, if a party die before
entry of an appeal. .

84. Judgment on general verdict, if
any count be good.

85. Costs, if plaintiff appeal from a
justice’s judgment, and do not increase the damages.

86. Guardian may appear fora party
who has become insane.

COSTS.

87. Meaning of double or treble costs.

88. Costs for respondents, on unsuccessful application for certain
writs and processes.

89. Costs to be paid, before bringing a
new suit after nonsuit or discontinuance.

90. Liability for costs, of an individual, who sues in the name of the
state.

9]. State liable for costs, if such action be tbr its bene6t.

92. State’s attorney to tax no travel.

93. Costs, in case a plaintiff brings
divers actions at the same court,
which might be joined.

94. Taxation of fees for travel.

95. Taxation of fees for attendance in
defaulted cases.

96. Costs not taxable in a suit ona
judgment, where execution might
issue. Proviso.

Snow. 75. Members of certain corporations Ss:c'r. 97. Costs for travel of a corporation.

98. Court may control costs, in certain
cases.
99. Costs, in cases of set-oil‘.
l00. Trial docket, and costs in actions
for trial.
101. Proceedings, on motion to set
aside a verdict.

EXECUTIONS.

102. When executions may issue, and
when returnable.

103. Justice executions, when returnable.

104. To issue within one year afte
judgment. ’

105. May be renewed within three
years.

106. When scire facias is necessary.

I07. Interest to be collected on executipns.

108. Courts not to be held on certain
days.

109. In actions of trespass, court or
jury to decide whether the trespass was wilful.

ll(1 Damages on dishonored bills,
payable out of the state.

111. Damages on bills payable in the
state. ‘

112. Appointment of surveyor, in certain cases.

113. Subsequent attaching creditor may
petition for leave to defend a
previous suit.

114-. Manner of petitioning.

115. Bond to be given, if he be allowed
to defend.

116. Entry on the record.

117. Proceedings, if petitioner fail in
his defence.

118. Proceedings and costs, if petitioner prevail.

119. If first attachment were fraudulent, it shall be void.

120. Actions brought by public omceu
not to abate by their vacating
their ofiice.

No action shall be entered in the supreme judicial

court, or district court, after the first day of the session thereof,;
without the special permission of the court; and no suit, process?

or proceedings, pending in any court, shall be discontinued, by
reason of such court not having been held at any stated-term or
at any adjournment thereof; but they shall be respectively returned
to, and have day in the term or session, which shall be held next
after such failure»

Seer. 2. When the defendant ‘shall have been duly served with ,

process, and return thereof made, according to the mandate of the

writ, or order of a judge of the court indorsed thereon, and he
shall not appear by himself or attorney, his default shall be recorded,
except as hereinqfter provided ; but such default shall be erased or
taken off, by leave of court, or without such leave, if the defendant
shall appear in court in person or by attorney, at any time before
the jury are dismissed, and pay to the plaintiff such costs as the
court shall. order; and if, by the return of the ofiicer or ‘otherwise,
it appears=to- the court, that the defendant has not had sufficient

notice, they may order such further notice, as they may think proper.

Snow. 3. If the defendant was an inhabitant of the state at the
time of the service of l the writ, but absent therefrom, and it does
not appear, that he had: actual notice of the suit, or that he had
returned to the state, on suggestion of the fact, the court may continue the same, from time to time, not exceeding twice, unless for
some special cause; or, at their discretion, they may enter judgment on default.

Snow. 4. If a defendant was‘ not an ‘inhabitant of the state,
or within the same, at the time of such service, but had actual
notice of the suit, the court may, in their discretion, order a con-"
tinuance of the action, though he- does not appear, in season to
answer to- the suit at the return term.

Seer. 5. When judgment in any personal action shall be rendered, as above provided in. the third section, upon the default of
an absent defendant, the plaintiff shall not take out execution
thereon, within one year thereafter ; unless he shall first give bond
to the defendant, with one or more suflicient sureties, in a sum
equal to double the amount of the judgment for damages and costs,
with condition to repay the said amount to the defendant, if the
judgment shall be reversed, upon a review to be brought by the
original defendant, within one year after rendition of the original
judgment, or as much of the amount first recovered, as shall be
recovered back upon such review.

SE01‘. 6. The bond above mentioned shall be deposited with

‘the clerk of the court for the defendant’s use. and the clerk shall

decide on the sufficiency of the sureties; saving a right of appeal
from his decision to any justice of the court, in which the judgment
was rendered.

Snow. 7. When judgment is so rendered upon default, as mentioned" in the third section, the defendant shall be entitled to a
review of ' the action, as of right, to be commenced and prosecuted
in the same court, within one year next after the judgment was
rendered, in the manner, provided in the one hundred and twentyfourth chapter.

Saar. 8. If such review of right has not been prosecuted,

"within one year as aforesaid, the defendant may, at any time within

one year after he shall first have notice of the judgment, apply by
petition°to the court, in which the same was rendered,- for a review
of the action ; and, if it shall appear to ‘the court, that justice requires it, they may grant a review thereof, on such tenns as they
may deem reasonable. °

Snow. 9. No summons, writ, declaration, plea, process, judgment or other proceedings in courts of justice, shall be abated,

arrested or reversed, for any kind of circumstantial errors or mistakes, when the person and case may be rightly understood by the
court, nor for want of form only, and which by law might have
been amended.

SI-:c'r. 10. All such errors, imperfections and defects, may, on
motion, be amended by either party, on such terms as the court
may direct.

Snow. 11. In all actions, where there are two or more defendants, the plaintiff may amend the writ, by striking out the names of
one or more of the defendants, on paying him or them their costs
up to that time.

Snow. 12. In any action on contract, express or implied, the
plaintiff may, on motion, amend his writ, by inserting therein the
names of any other person or persons, as defendants, and the court
may order a copy of the writ, and the order of the court thereon
indorsed, to be served on such additional defendant, and his property to be attached in the same manner, as in case of original writs -,
and, on return of such service and attachment, if any shall be made,
such additional defendant or defendants shall be deemed parties to
the suit, and may plead to the action accordingly; but they shall
not be liable to any costs before service made on them, as aforesaid.

SE01‘. 13. In all actions of trespass, and trespass on the case
the declaration shall be deemed equally good and valid, to all
intents and purposes, whether the same shall be in form a declaration in trespass, or trespass on the case.

Snow. 14. The treasurer of the state, and treasurers of counties,
towns, parishes and other corporations, may bring actions‘ in their
own names, and capacities, as treasurers, on any bonds, notes or
other securities, which shall have been given to them, or their predecessors, and prosecute any suits, commenced by their respective
predecessors, and pending, when they left such offices.

Sr:c'r. 15. In all actions on any bond, or penal sum, for the
performance of any covenants or agreements, and in all actions of
covenant, the plaintiff may assign as many breaches, as he may
-thirflt fit, to which the defendant may answer generally, that he has
"kept and performed all said covenants, whether they are aflirmative

-or negative. '

SECT. 16. In all cases, where real estate has been, or may be
absolutely conveyed to any person, his heirs and assigns, with a,
covenant, that the grantor was seized in fee of the same, and that
it was free of all incunibrances at the time of such conveyance, the
-same estate then being under mortgage -or «other incumbrance, or
the grantor not being then seized of the same, the assignee of such»
grantee, his .-executors or administrators, after having been evicted
of said estate, by the elder and better title of the mortgagee, his
heirs or assigns, may maintain an action of covenant broken against
the first grantor, -on any of the -covenants in such absolute deed, in
'his~er «their own names, and recoversuch damages as the grantee
might, ‘if he had been evicted and had brought the action in his
«own name; provided, he shall file in court at the first term, for the
use-.o.f the grantee,-a release .of the covenants in said grantee’s
deed to:said.assignee, and all causes .of action on any of such myenants.

Saar. 17. When a person has conveyed or shall convey real
estate to another, covenanting in his deed, that he is seized in fee
of the premises, and that they are free from all incumbrances, at
the time of the conveyance, and such grantee shall afterwards convey the same premises to a third person in fee, such grantee shall
have no power to release the said covenants contained in the deed
first mentioned, so as to bar or any way affect the right of such
third person to maintain an action against the first grantor, for
breach of said covenants of seizin, and freedom of the premises
from incumbrance.

Ssccr. 18. The defendant may, in all cases, plead the general
,'issue, which shall be joined by the plaintiff, and he may give in
evidence any special matter in defence, when the issue is to be
joined to the country; provided, that he shall, at the same time,
file in the cause a brief statement of such special matter; to which
the plaintiff may, within such time as the court shall direct, file any
counter brief statement of any matter, on which he may rely, and
give in evidence by way of avoidance of the matter contained in
the brief statement of the defendant; or the defendant may, at his
election, plead such matter specially, after the general issue is
pleaded, in bar of the action, and by leave of court plead double.

I Beer. 19. In every suit for writing and publishing a libel. it
‘shall be lawful for the defendant to give in evidence on the trial
thereof, the truth of the matter charged as libelous; and the truth
of such fact, being established, shall be a justification, unless it
shall appear, that the matter charged as libelous, originated from
corrupt or malicious motives.

Snow. 20. When the defendant does not deny the fact stated
in the declaration, he may file a general demurrer to the same;
and, in any stage of pleading, either party may demur, and the
demurrer shall be joined.

Snow. 21. All penalties may be recovered by action of debt,
where no other form of action or proceeding is prescribed in the
statute, imposing such penalties.

Snow. 22. In any action founded on judgment or contract, the
defendant may offer, and consent in writing to be defaulted, and
that judgment may be entered against him, for a specified sum as
damages; and the same shall be entered on record, and the time

,when the offer was made; and, if the plaintiff shall proceed to

trial, and recover no greater sum for his debt or damages, up to the
time when the offer was made, the defendant shall recover his costs
of the plaintiff, from the time of such offer, up to the time of trial;
and such costs shall be set off against the sum so offered, and

judgment shall be rendered, and execution issued for the balance,

for either party, which way so ever the same may be.
Saar. 23. The goods and estate of each deceased debtor in

every joint contract, express or implied, or in any judgment on any

contract, shall be liable in the hands of his executor or administrator for payment thereof, in the same manner as in case of a contract, joint and several; and the creditor shall have the same

remedy against any of the survivors, or against the executor or
administrator, as on a joint and several contract,

Snow. 24. When there are mutual debts or demands, between;
the plaintiff and defendant in any action, one demand may be set‘
off against the other, as provided in the following sections. 1

Snow. 25. The defendant shall file a statement of his demand,'
on the first day of the term of the court, at which the writ is made,
returnable, and the clerk shall enter on the same the day, when it;
was filed, and the defendant shall also, on the same day, give
written notice thereof to the plaintiff or his counsel, if either is:
attending court.

SECT. 26. The demand of the defendant shall be as certain in‘
substance, as would be required in a declaration, and the court)
may allow amendments thereof, when deemed proper. ‘

Snow. 27. No demand shall be set off, unless it is founded upon a judgment or contract; but the contract may be either ex-T
press or implied. q

Seer. 28. No demands shall be set off, unless for the price of
real or personal estate sold, or for money paid, money had and
received, or for services done, or unless it be for a sum liquidated,
or one that may be ascertained by calculation.

Snow. 29. No demand shall be set off, unless it was originally
payable to the defendant, in his own‘ right, except as hereinafter is
provided.

Snow. 30. Any demand, which has been assigned to the defendant with notice to the plaintiff of the assignment, before the action
was commenced, may be set off in like manner, as if it had been
originally payable to the defendant; if the plaintiff shall at any
time, have previously agreed to receive it in payment, or part

payment of his demand, or to pay the same to the defendant, and
not otherwise.

SE01‘. 31. If the demand, set off, is founded on a bond or

other contract having a penalty, no more shall be set off than the
sum equitably due.

Snow. 32. The set-off shall be allowed in all actions founded
on demands, which could themselves be the subject of set-off according to law, and in no others. '

Snow. 33. If there are several plaintiffs, the demand, set off,
shall be due from them all jointly ; if there are several defendants,
the demand, set off, shall be due to them all jointly, except as is
provided in the following section.

S201‘. 34. When the person, with whom a contract is made,
has a dormant partner, and a suit is brought on such contract, by or
against the partners jointly, any debt, due to or from the person,
with whom the contract was made, may be set off in like manner,
as if such dormant partner had not been joined in the suit.

Snow. 35. ' If the demand, on which the action is brought, has
been assigned, and the defendant had notice of the assignment, he
shall not set off any demand, that he may have acquired against

' the original creditor after such notice.

SECT. 36. When an action is brought by one person in trust,’
or for the use of another, the defendant may set off any demand
against the person, for whose use or benefit the action is brought,
in like manner, as if that person were the plaintiff in the suit.

Sac-r. 37. In actions by executors and administrators, demands

iagainst their testators or intestates, which belonged to the defendant, at the time of their death, may be set off in the same manner,
as if the action had been brought by the deceased. . .
Saar. 38. When, upon such set-off against an executor 0
administrator, a balance shall be found due to the defendant, the
judgment therefor shall be in the same form, and have the same
effect, as if the suit had been originally commenced by the defendant; except, as stated in the following section. -. .
Snow. 39. When the estate of the deceased is insolvent, no
judgment shall be rendered in favor of the defendant for the balance found due to him; but the same shall be certified by the
clerk of the court, to be the balance due from the estate of the
deceased ; and the same shall be laid before the commissioners on
such estate, in like manner as other claims of creditors. . 

Snow. 40. In actions against executors and administrators, an
trustees and others, in their representative character, the defend-.
ant [s] may set off demands belonging to their testators or intestates, or those whom they represent, in the same manner, as the
persons represented would have been entitled to set off the same,
in an action against themselves.

Snow. 41. In actions, brought by or against executors, administrators or trustees, or others in their representative character, no
demand shall be set off, that is due to or from such executors, administrators or trustees or others, in their own right. ‘ .

Snow. 42. All cases of set-off may be tried upon the issue joined,
without any further plea; and in all actions, except assumpsit,
when an issue to the country is not .otherwise formed, the defendant
may plead, that he does not owe the sum demanded by the plaintiff;
which shall be deemed a good plea or general issue, for the purpose of trying the merits of the cause.

Sacr. 43. The plaintiff shall be entitled to every ground of
defence against such set-off, of which he might have availed himself by any form of pleading, in an action brought against him on
the same demand. ;= . .

Sscr. 44. The statute limiting personal actions, if applicable
to the set-off, shall be applied in the same manner, as if an action
thereon had been commenced at the time, when the plaintiff ’s
action was commenced.

Snow. 45. If the jury find no balance due to either party, judgment shall be entered thereon without costs to either ; if a balance
is found due to the plaintiff, he shall have judgment therefor.

Sam‘. 46. When a balance is found due from the plaintiff,
judgment shall be rendered therefor in favor of the defendant,
with costs; but no such judgment shall be rendered against the
plaintiff, when the demand, for which the action was brought, had
been assigned before the commencement of the action; nor for
any balance due from any other person, than the plaintiff.

- Snow. 47. In actions in a municipal or police court, and before
a justice of the peace, similar proceedings shall he had in respect to.
set-offs, as those before prescribed ; the demand in set-off to be filed
on the return day of the writ; provided, that in no case shall judgment be rendered for the defendant for more than twenty dollars,«
exclusive of costs of suit.

Snow. 48. After ademand has been filed in set-off, the plaintiff
shall not be allowed to discontinue his action, unless by consent of‘;
the defendant. ‘

Seer. 49. Whenever a cause is at issue, and it shall appear,
that the trial will require an investigation of accounts, or an exami-:
nation of vouchers, the court may appoint, by consent of parties,
one or more auditors to hear the parties, and examine the vouchers
and proof, and to state the accounts and make a report thereof to
the court.

Snow. 50. The auditors shall give notice to ‘he parties, of the
time and place of hearing them, and may adjourn, as may be found
necessary.

Snow. 51. If there is more than one auditor, all shall hear the
parties, but a majority may make the report; in which it shall be
stated, whether all attended the hearing. or not.

Ssc'r. 52. Witnesses may be summoned and compelled to at-.
tend before the auditors‘; as before referees, and may be sworn by
any such auditor.

Seer. 53. The court may discharge the auditors, and appoint
others, or may recommit their report for revision. 1

Sec-r. 54. If there is no legal objection to the report of the
auditors, it may be used by either party as evidence, on the trial of ;
the cause before the jury ; but shall be open to be impeached or
disproved by other evidence. —

Snow. 55. The court shall allow reasonable compensation to»
the auditors, to be paid by the plaintiff, and taxed in his bill of
costs, if he prevail in the suit.

Seer. 56. When the plaintiff, in any stage of the cause, shall
become nonsuit, or discontinue his suit, the defendant shall recover
his costs; and in all actions, the party prevailing shall be entitled
to his legal costs.

Snow. 57. In actions of account, when any person, against
whom judgment shall be rendered, that he shall account, shall
unreasonably delay or refuse to appear at the time and place,
appointed by the auditors, who have been appointed by the court,
or, after appearing, shall refuse or neglect to render an account, the
auditors shall certify such refusal or neglect; and the court shall
cause the damages to be assessed by a jury, and judgment for the
same on the verdict, or may enter a default and judgment thereon.

‘Snow. 58. When venires for jurors are returned to court, the
clerk shall prepare, at the commencement of each term of the?
court, separate alphabetical lists of the names of the several persons, returned as traverse jurors; and the court at which such
jurors attend, in empanneling the traverse jurors, shall cause the
names of the first two persons, who shall attend, to be called, who
shall be first sworn, and then the others in succession, as they shall
be named on the list, and in such divisions as the court may direct,
or all at the same time; and the first twelve shall compose the first
jury, and the next twelve, on the safne list, -shall be empanneled

and swam in like manner, and shall compose the second jury.

Snow. 59. If there are supernumerary jurors, they may be excused from time to time, till wanted; and they may be placed on
either jury, as occasion may require; and jurors may be transferred
from one jury to the other, when the convenience of business may
require it; and, for good reason, any juror may be excused.

Snow. 60. The following shall be the form of the oath, administered_to traverse jurors, in civil causes: “ You and each of you
swear, that in all causes betwixt party and party, that shall be committed to you, you will give a true verdict therein, according to the
law and the evidence given you. So help you God ;” and, when
a juror is conscientiously scrupulous of taking an oath, the word
“afiirm” shall be psed, instead.of “ swear,” and the words, “ this
you do under the pains and penalties of perjury,” instead of the
words, “ so help you God.”

SECT. 61. Each jury shall retire, after having been thus empanneled and sworn, and choose their foreman, by ballot, or make
the choice upon retiring with the first cause, with which they shall
be charged ; and, whenever a foreman is absent, or excused from
service, a new foreman shall be chosen, as aforesaid.

Snow. 62. When, by reason of challenge or other cause, a sufficient number of jurors, duly drawn and summoned, cannot be
obtained for the trial of any cause, the court shall cause jurors to
be returned from the by-standers, or from the county at large, to
complete the panel; provided, that there shall be on the jury not
less than seven jurors, drawn and returned as before provided.

Snow. 63. Such jurors shall be returned by the sheriff, or his
deputy, or a coroner, or such other disinterested person, as the
court may appoint. _

Sr-:c'r. 64. The court may, when circumstances render the
measure expedient, in term time, issue venires for as many jurors,
as may be wanted; to be drawn, notified and returned, forthwith,
or on a day appointed: and the court may, also, when in any
county the business requires a protracted session, during the term,
excuse all or any of the jurors originally returned, and issue venires
for as many new jurors, as may be necessary to supply their places;
who shall be drawn and notified to attend at such time, as the
court may direct.

Snow. 65. The court, on motion of either party in a suit, may
examine, on oath, any person called as a juror therein, whether he
is related to either party, or has given or formed any opinion, or
is sensible of any bias, prejudice, or particular interest in the cause ;
and if it shall appear from his answers, or from any competent evidence, introduced by the party objecting to the juror, that he does
not stand indifferent in the cause, another juror shall be called,
and placed in his stead for the trial of the cause.

Snow. 66. The traverse jury may, in all cases find a special or
general verdict, subject to the opinion of the court on a case agreed
by the parties and reserved, or on the facts as reported by the
judge presiding at the trial.

Ssccr. 67. When a jury, not having agreed, return into court,
stating the fact, the judge may, in his discretion,‘ explain any questions of law, if proposed to him, or re-state any particular testimony,

and send them out again for further consideration ; but they shallq

not be sent out, a third time, in consequence of their disagreement, '
unless on account of some difiiculties, not stated when they first
came into court.

S1-:c-r. 68. In prosecutions for the recovery of any sum of money‘
orother thing forfeited, it shall not be a cause of challenge to any:

juror, that he is liable to pay taxes in any county, town or planta--‘

tion, which may be benefited by the recovery.

Snow. 69. If at party knows of any objection to a juror, in?
season to propose it before trial, and omits so to do, he shall notl
afterwards be allowed to make the same objection ; unless by leave ~
of court, for special reasons.

Snc'r. 70. No irregularity in the venires, or drawing, summon-T
iug, returning or empanneling jurors, shall be suliicient to set aside}
a verdict; unless the party, making the objection, was injured byf
the irregularity; or unless the objection was made before the re-‘
turn of the verdict.

" Snow. 71. The clerks of the several courts, and any justice of
the peace, may issue summonses for witnesses to attend before such
courts to give evidence concerning any matters there depending.

Snow. 72. No person, who believes in the existence of a supreme being, shall be adjudged an incompetent or incredible witness
in any judicial court, or in the course of judicial proceedings, on
account of his opinions in matters of religion; nor shall such opinions be made a subject of investigation or inquiry.

~ Snow. 73. In the administration of oaths, the depouent shall
hold up his hand, unless he is a person who believes that an oath
is not binding, if it is not taken in his accustomed manner.

Srwr. 74. Every person, conscientiously scrupulous of taking
an oath, and who, on any lawful occasion, is required to take one,
shall make aliirmation, as follows: “I do aliirm, under the pains

and penalties of perjury,” which shall be deemed of the same force
and effect, as an oath.

Seer. 75. In all suits at law, wherein any county, town, plantation, parish, school district, public corporation, charitable, religions or literary incorporated society, or any mutual fire insurance
company, may be a party, or interested in the event of the suit,
‘any inhabitant or member of any such corporation shall be admit"ted, as a competent witness; provided, he has no other interest
‘therein, than as such inhabitant or member.

""~-*Sl:c'r.- 76. If either party in a cause, in which a verdict is
returned, shall, during the same term of the court, before or after
the trial, give to’ any of the jurors, who shall try the cause, any
1593 by way of treat, or gratuity, or purposely introduce among
the papers in the case, which are delivered to the jury, when they

"=retirer'with the cause, any papers, which have any connection with

it,"-but which were not offered in evidence, the court, on motion of
theadverse party, may set aside the verdict, and order a new trial.

Snow. 77. In all actions of replevin, whenever the jury shall
tindrthe property of part of the goods and chattels, replevied, to
be»: in the plaintiii, and of the residue to be in the defendant, they
shall without reference to the estimated valuein the replevin

,bond, find and certify in their verdict, the value of the part‘belong'ing to the plaintiff, as it was at the time it was replevied; and, if
such value shall not exceed twenty dollars, the plaintiff shall recover for costs, only one quarter part of such value.

, SECT. 78. In any action, pending on the Cif_{l][l] day of February, eighteen hundred and thirty-nine, or, that is now, or shall hereafter be pending in any judicial court, or before any justice of the
peace, on a bond given by an execution debtor, or by any person,
arrested‘ on a warrant of distress, to obtain a discharge from arrest
or imprisonment, if it shall appear, that prior to a breach of any of
the conditions o.f the same bond, the principal in such bond had
been allowed, by two justices of the peace, quorum unus, or two
justices of the peace and quorum, or a justice of the peace, and a
judge of any municipal court, to take, and had taken, before such
justices, the poor dt:btor’s oath, after notice of the intentions of such
debtor, to dist.-lo.-=e the state of his aflitirs, and take sttch oath, issued
by a justice of the peace upon the application of such debtor, or
by written notice, SigI'1£3(l by the debtor himself and served upon
the creditor named in the bond, or upon the attorney of such
creditor, the defendant shall have a rigltt to have such action tried
by a jury, who shall find and assess the tlzttiiages, if any, the plaintiff has sustained; or if, in their opinion, he has not sustained any
damages, they may return a verdict for the defendant, notwithstanding there may have been, in law, :1 breach of the conditions
of the bond; and, in such action, the plaintiff may introduce any
proper evidence, tending to show, that the suit-cry or sureties of
such debtor had, in his or their hands and possession, at the time of
the administration of said oath to the debtor, personal pr0pert._v,
money, debts, credits or real estate, lie-lo1tgit't__e; to such debtor, sufl‘icient. in whole or in part to pay the exectttion referred to in the
bond; and if the verdict be for the pl-aintitl', jttrlgment shall be
rendered thereon, Without regard to the penalty of the bond. And
in any such action, on trial, before a municipal court, or a justice
of the peace, similar pt‘OC.t.'(Z°tlin,C{S shall he had, as to the question of
damages, and the mode of ct'1tet'ine_: up jud_:__-;ment ; provided, that in
no such case shall the jury, or the municipal court. or justice of the
peace, give the plaintiff a larger sum in tl:tttt:tg_-jrrsz, than the amount
of the debt and cost, mentioned in the execution, with interest
thereon and ofiicer’s fees. And in all actions upon any bond or
penal sum, where the conditions of the some are dffferesnt from
tlzose above mentioned, and in all actions in the supreme judicial
court, on a recognizance, entered into in the tlistrict court, to prosecute an appeal with effect, if the jury shall find that any of the
conditions of such bond or penal sum have been broken, they shall
estimate the damages the plaintitl‘ has sustained; and judgment
thereupon shall be entered for the penal sum aforesaid, and e\'ecution shall‘ issue for the damages assessed and costs.

SECT. 79; In an action of debt on a jud_;r:ment of any court of
record, lawful interest shall be allowed, as well on the costs as the
damages, or the balance thereof (lue.

Seer. 80. No motion in arrest of judgment shall be sustained
in the supreme judicial court,. or district court, in any civil action.

Sncr. 81. In case of the death of either party in an action,
pending in the supreme judicial court or district court, or before a
municipal court, or any justice of the peace, the executor or administrator of the deceased, if the cause of action survive, may become
a party ‘to such action, such death being suggested on the record ;
and may prosecute or defend the same to final judgment: and the
surviving party may cause the executor or administrator of the
deceased party, to be served with a notice from the court, fourteen
days before the sitting of the same, where the notice is made returnable, to appear and prosecute, or defend such action, as the -case
may be; and, upon the refusal or neglect of such executor or administrator, so to appear and become a party to the suit, the court may
enter up judgment upon the nonsuit or default, as the case may be,
in the form prescribed in chapter, one hundred and twenty.

Snow. 82. If any action or suit be brought by an unmarried

woman, either alone or jointly with others, and she be married.

before final judgment, her husband may, on his own motion, be
admitted as a party, to prosecute the suit with her, and with the
other plaintiffs, if there be any, in like manner as if he had originally joined in the suit.

Snow. 83. When an appellant or appellee, in any action,
wherein judgment has been rendered upon an issue in law, or case
stated by the parties, by the district court, and, from which judgment, an appeal has been claimed and granted, shall die before the
sitting of the court appealed to, the surviving party may enter the
appeal ; and, after giving notice to the executor or administrator of
the deceased party, the court may render the proper judgment;
affirming the judgment of the district court, or grant a new trial.

Sac-r. 84. When a general verdict is entered, for the plaintiff
in any civil action, in which some of the counts in the writ are bad,
and any one of them is good, or in any suit in which there is a
wrong joinder of counts, no objection having been made thereto
by plea, or motion in writing, before the cause is committed to the
jury, the judgment, for that reason, shall not be a subject of reversal upon a writ of error. a

Saar. 85. In actions tried before a municipal court, or a justice of the peace, if the plaintiff shall appeal from a judgment in
his favor, and, in the district court, shall not recover a greater sum
for damages, than he recovered by the first judgment, he shall not
be..entitled for his costs of the whole suit, to more than a quarter
part of r the sum, finally recovered for damages.

.--Siam‘. 86. If, during the pendency of any action, either party
_ shall become insane, the action may be prosecuted or defended by

hiszguardian, in like manner as if it had been commenced after the

’ appointment of the guardian ; or the court may appoint a guardian

For-the suit, as the case may require.

Snow. 87.. When, in any action, a plaintiff is by law entitled to
rescuer double costs, the :fees paid for witnesses, depositions, copies
and other evidence, shall be taxed and recovered singly, and the
remainder only of the taxable costs shall be doubled ; and the
 «shall apply, when treble costs .are necovered.

S3011. 88. On application for a writ of certiorari, mandamus, or

quo warranto, on ‘behalf of any private person, or for any like process, the court, in their discretion, may allow costs to any person
notified and appearing as a respondent, and issue execution against
the applicant.

Sec-r. 89. After a judgment for costs has been rendered against
a plaintiff, on nonsuit or discontinuance, and a second suit for the
same cause shall be brought, before the costs of the former suit
shall have been paid, the court shall, on the same being made to
appear, stay all proceedings, until such costs shall be paid; and
may dismiss the suit, unless they are paid at such time as the court
shall appoint. ‘ '

Snow. 90. When any suit is brought in the name of the state,
but for the use and benefit of any private person, his name and
place of residence shall be indorsed on the writ, and, if the suit is
not maintained, judgment for the defendant’s costs shall be rendered against such person, and execution issued in like manner, as
if he were the plaintiff on record.

S1-:c'r. 91. In any civil suit, instituted by the state, and for the
use and benefit of the state, the state shall be liable for the defendant’s costs, and judgment shall be rendered for them against the
state, and the treasurer of the county, in which the trial is had,
shall pay the amount to the defendant, on his production of a certified copy of the judgment, and the same shall be allowed to such
treasurer, in his account with the state.

Seer. 92. When costs are recovered by the state in any civil
’suit, no fees hall be taxed for the travel of the attorney general,
or any other attorney for the state.

Sacr. 93. When a plaintiff shall, at the same court, and at
the same term, bring divers actions against the same party, which
might have been joined in one, or shall bring more than one suit

,. upon a joint and several contract, he shall recover costs in only one
of such actions, unless the court shall certify, that there was good
cause for commencing them.

Seer. 94. The costs for the plaintifT’s travel shall be taxed
according to his or his attorney’s distance from the place of trial,
whichever is nearer, whether the plaintiff is payee, or indorsee ;
but no more than for forty miles distance from the court, shall ever
be allowed, unless the plaintiff himself shall actually travel more
than that distance.

Sr-:c'r. 95. In all actions, if the defendant is defaulted before

I the jury shall be empanneled and called to try the cause, the plaintiff shall tax only six days attendance, except as provided in section, one hundred ; and, if defaulted after the jury are empanneled
and called, the cost may be restricted, as the court shall direct.

Seer. 96. No costs shall be allowed the plaintiff, in an action

" upon a judgment of any court, or justice of the peace, on which an
execution might, at the time of commencing such action have been
issued and duly served on the judgment debtor; provided, this section shall not apply to a trustee process, founded on such judgment.

1 Sac-r. 97. When an aggregate corporation is entitled to costs,
the travel shall be computed from the place where it is situated,
if it is local in its nature; otherwise from the place where its

business is usually transacted, not exceeding forty miles travel ; (
unless the agent of such corporation shall travel a greater distance to attend the court.

Seer. 98. Nothing in this chapter shall take away or control C
the power of the court, to require payment of costs, or withhold:
and refuse them, as the condition of an amendment or continuance.

Sscr. 99. In actions on contract, in which an account is filed C
in set-oil‘, although the damages, found for the plaintiff, shall not§
exceed twenty dollars, he shall be entitled to full costs; provided,
the jury shall certify, in their verdict, that the damages were reduced
as low as that sum, by means of the amount allowed by them, on
account of said set-off, and as due upon it.

SECT. 100. All actions, entered at any previous term, in the?
supreme judicial court or district court, shall be called over by the:
clerk, on the first day of each term ; and those, which are not then 1
defaulted, but further answered to, shall be entered on a trial
docket, made by the clerk, and travel and attendance shall be taxed in such action, until the defendant shall allow the same to be
disposed of, unless the court shall otherwise direct; but no more
than ten days attendance, at any one term, shall be taxed, in any
action, in any case.

S1-:c'r. 101. When a motion is made and filed, that a verdictl
may be set aside, as being against law, or the direction of the court,
or against evidence, the whole evidence shall be drawn up in the|
form of a report, and signed by the presiding judge; and, if the:
motion shall be founded on any alleged cause, other than- the rul-‘
ings and instructions of the judge to’ the jury, the evidence, as to‘
the facts stated in the motion, shall be heard, examined and reported by the judge ; and, in either case, the action shall be continued,
to be heard on the motion before the whole court.

S201‘. 102. Execution may be issued on any judgment in the
supreme judicial court, or district court, after the expiration of
twenty-four hours, after the same was rendered ; and shall be made
returnable within three months.

S201‘. 103. Executions issued by a justice of the peace shall be
made returnable in three months, from the day they were issued.

Sscr. 104. N 0 first execution shall be issued after the expiration of one year, from the time judgment was entered ; except in
the case provided for, in the fifth section of this chapter.

[See Stat. 1341, act qf amendment, g 19.]

Snow. 105. An alias or pluries execution may be issued, within
three years next after the day, on which the last preceding execution was returnable, and not afterwards.

Seer. 106. If the creditor, in the cases mentioned in the two
preceding sections, shall neglect to sue out execution, within the
‘times therein prescribed, he may sue out a writ of scire facias
against the debtor, to show cause why execution of the judgment
should not be done; and if, after due notice, no sufficient cause
be shown, the court shall award execution for the amount due on
the judgment.

Sac:-. 107. On all executions, issued on judgments in civil

actions, or acknowledgments of debts, lawful interest shall be col:lected by the oiiicer, serving the execution, from the time judgment

was rendered, or the debt became payable; and the clerk, or justice shall vary the form of executions, so as to embrace such interest.
Seer. 108. No court shall be held for trial of civil causes, on

'the fourth day of July, second Monday in September, nor any day

designated, in this state, for the choice of electors of president and
vice president of the United States, or for the annual fast or thanksivm .

g Sr-Err. 109. In all action of trespass on property, it shall be
the duty of the court or magistrate, or court and jury, to inquire
and determine, whether the trespass was committed wilfully; and,
if such is found to be the fact, a record shall be made of that fact:
and, when execution is issued on the judgment in the case, a memorandum shall be made on the margin of the execution, that the
judgment was rendered for a trespass committed wilfully.

S307. 110. When an action is brought on a bill of exchange,
drawn or indorsed in this state, and -payable in any place out of

- the state, but within the United States, and, being protested for nonacceptance or non-payment, the holder, in an action against the
acceptor, drawer or indorser, shall recover not only the contents of
the bill and interest, but in addition thereto shall recover damages,
at the rate of three per cent. on the amount of the bill, if it be
payable in either of the states of New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Vermont, Connecticut, Rhode Island or New York; and if in New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia or the district of Columbia, at the rate of six per
cent. ; and, if in any other state, at the rate of nine per cent.
Seer. 111. If a bill of exchange be drawn, accepted or in'dorsed, in this state, for one hundred dollars or more, and payable
in this state, at a place seventy-five miles distant from the place
where drawn, the damages against the acceptor, drawer or indorser,
over and above the contents of the bill and interest, shall be one
per cent. on its amount. '

F Sscr. 112. Any court may appoint a surveyor to run lines,
and make plans of lands, demanded in a real or mixed action, when
such a measure may be deemed useful in the trial of such cause;
and, when such surveyor is prevented by force, menaces or fear,
from performing the duties assigned him, the court, in which the
cause is pending, may issue a warrant to the sheriff, commanding
him, with suitable aid, to cause such opposition to the surveyor, in
the execution of his duties, to be prevented ; and, in the execution
of such warrant, he may exercise all the power, appertaining to his
ollice as sheriff; and all persons refusing their aid, when called for
by him, shall be liable to the same penalties, as in other cases.

Sr-:c'r. 113. In all cases, where the same property has been
attached on mesne process in two or more suits, which are now
pending or may be commenced, the plaintiff in any suit, after that
in which the first attachment shall have been made, may petition
the court in which such suits are pending, for leave to defend
against such first suit, in like manner, as the party, therein sued,

could or might have done.

Seer. 114. The party, so petitioning, shall set forth, in his:
petition, the facts on which he relies, and make oath to the truth
of the same, or that he verily believes them to be true; and thew
court, in their discretion, may grant the prayer of the petition, or:
not, as they-may judge proper. i

S201‘. 115. If the court shall admit the petitioner to defend
against such prior suit, he shall give bond, or enter into recogni-?
zance with sufficient surety, in such sum, as the court shall order,?
to pay to the plaintiff in such previous suit, all such costs and
damages, as the court shall adjudge and decree to have been occasioned to the plaintiff, by such defence.

SECT. 116. It shall be entered on record, that the petitioner
is admitted to defend against the prior action, as aforesaid. 1

Snow. 117. In case a recognizance has been entered into, and i
if the petitioner shall fail in his defence of such action, the court}
shall award execution on the recognizance, in favor of the plaintiff
therein against the petitioner, and proceed to enter judgment in
the original suit between the parties, as though such defence had
not been made.

Sec-r. 118. If the petitioner shall prevail in said defence, by:
verdict or otherwise, the court shall render judgment thereon, and;
award execution to the petitioner, for his reasonable costs; and
such judgment shall be rendered for costs, if any, to the party sued ;
in such action, as the court may direct.

Seer. 119. If it shall appear by the verdict or otherwise, that
the plaintiff made his attachment with intent to defraud or delay
other creditors of the defendant, or that there was collusion between the plaintiff and defendant, for the purpose of defrauding or
delaying such other creditors, such attachment shall be void.

Seer. 120. No action brought by any public officer, in his official capacity, shall abate, by reason of the death, resignation, removal, or expiration of the term of oflice of such plaintiff; but
such action may‘ be prosecuted by the successors in office of such
plaintiff, to the uses for which such action was originally commenced ; and the court, before which any such action may be pending,
may order such amendments of the process, and such notices to
said successors, as may be necessary, to carry into effect the provisions of this section.

 

CHAPTER I 16.

OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE, AND THEIR POWER 1N CIVIL CASES, AND
PROCEEDINGS THEREIN.

Snc1'.l, 2. Civil jurisdiction of justices of Snc'r.7. Default and judgment on n:on-apthe peace.  pearance of defendant.

3. Proceedings, if title to real estntei 8. Costs for’ defendant, if he recover.
be in question. , 9. Right of appeal, and effect thueefl

4. Recognizance to enter the action; 10. Appellant to recognize with surein the district court. ties.

5. Consequence of neglect. 11. To produce papers in the district

6. Form and service of justice  court.

3301'. 12. Jush'ces may issue suhp.1'-lins fur Slit 1'. ';.'3. JII~'tiC+" mr1_v :.-<.~:ur~ f_‘.‘I('f_'LtllLIll. on

wime3;eg_ :—:L1r_'lI il'Ell1::t_‘I'1l||'|i rvvnrrl.

13. May adjourn their «"1"-urls. ‘Li. .l1I.-'lir'r: rt-:1:-..\'é|1g frt-in the-. stair.-,

14-. Proceedings, ifajt1.~tu_'r: llf‘ :".‘.m‘nt tn tlr-jar"-.~'it his rvrmrtls with the..at the time appoint:-ti ti-r lmi-l|u_-_; «la:-rl< mi" tlw I‘:-In-ts.

g cam-t_ '.'|. .'\t||1iis1i--.tr;Itr'-1'ml" tlr-t'e*:1s:,.-cljitstice,

15. Justices not to be of r‘-tutw-l. W In '1":-“Ell '-lwm.

15. May issue scire l'.'1:'::a.-4 :1g_r.-iin.~l .‘.'v_ I‘:-:1'.:l.‘}'!'-.:1'In-1|:-«t.jr:<‘itl'mr (12,290.
administrators for \'.';:.~.1n_“. Illlti '.i- '.'-‘3. llIll_\' 1-I'llau't'lI-ti. Ill -111:1 :11.-'u_-;-;_
gains:  Li. l"1‘=-~..‘r_'t'tliI1_'__‘.€. ll" j1;:—lin‘t_- til!’ r‘-r rr-17. May issue writs itatn ntlngr (*n:1.:1~ iiI='-W". WIT. l'.I.I\iI:;_' t‘H.'1':1:lr-1:.-ti his
ties, in certain cam--5. r<‘t'~rt1-.4.

18, Service of Writ] OI‘ r~‘r‘irr.‘ l-‘.'.lt_‘1.'1_-;, K311. (__'e‘I't.1iI1 }u.m'4‘r.~« 111' _jr1.~+lir.‘t-:-'< con19. Justice’s records. l’rr.n.‘:-L'tliI1;_-:4.in. I':1mr-sl. ;t1'tq-r |'.X[lll'-liiilll ht‘ their
case of hi; deat]-1_  r-m:1I:‘.i.'~:~.~‘in::.~'.

20. Records may be tr.".1'.-'r'r1lu-cl 31}. ‘if’. l’|:L:'-:' ‘-'~'l“'T'*'_l”*fit'v wri‘t.~'«‘ Hilflli hr!
another-justice in «"1-rt::in r:1.~<r‘~'. r--tI1rn.‘:l:lc-.

21. Copy of such transcription to be 30. All trials to be upon the general
legal evidence. issue.

SECTION 1. Every justice of the peace, except those residing
in any city or town, within which a municipal or police court now
is, or may be established, and the judge of such court is not interested, shall have power to hold a court within his county, and shall
have original and exclusive jurisdiction of all civil actions, wherein
the debt or damages demanded do not exceed twenty dollars;
excepting real actions, actions of trespass on real estate, actions for
disturbance of a right of way, or of any other easement, and all
other actions, where the title to real estate, according to the pleadings, or the brief statement, filed in the case by either party, may
be in question : and in prosecutions for penalties, he may have jurisdiction, if otherwise entitled, notwithstanding his town may be
interested in the penalty.

Snow. 2. But in the personal actions, mentioned in the exception contained in the preceding section, when the sum demanded
does not exceed twenty dollars, a justice of the peace shall have

original jurisdiction, concurrently with the district~court.

SE01‘. 3. When it shall appear, in either of the ways before
mentioned, that the title to real estate is concerned or brought in
question, the case shall, at the request of either party, he removed
to the district court, to be there tried and determined in the same
manner, as if it had been originally commenced in that court.

Snow. 4. The party, requiring the cause to be so removed,
shall recognize to the other party, in a reasonable sum, with sufficient surety or sureties, with condition, to enter the action at the

district court, next to be held in the same county; and, if he fail

so to recognize, the justice shall bear and decide the cause in like
manner, as if no such request had been made to remove the cause.

Snow. 5. The party, so recognizing, shall produce, at the
district court, a copy of the record, and all such papers, as are
required to be produced by an appellant; and, if he shall fail so
to do, or to enter the action as before provided, he shall, upon the
complaint of the adverse party to the said court, be there nonsuited
or defaulted, as the case may be; and such judgment shall be rendered, as law and justice shall require.

Snow. 6. The writ, in civil actions, commenced before a justice

of the peace, shall be a summons, or a capias and attachment, andc
of the form prescribed in the one hundred and fourteenth chapter,‘
and signed by the justice; and such writvshall be duly served not‘
less than seven, nor more than sixty days, before the day therein
appointed for trial. .

SE01‘. 7. - If any person, duly served with process, shall not]

appear and answer thereto, his default shall be recorded, and the";
charge in the declaration shall be considered as true; and, on such ‘
default, and also when the action is on trial maintained, the justice
shall enter judgment for such sum, not exceeding twenty dollars,
as he shall find due to the plaintiff, with costs, and issue execution.

Snow. 8. If the plaintiff shall fail to enter and prosecute his
action, or if, on trial he shall not maintain his action, the defend-r
ant shall recover judgment for his costs, to be taxed by the justice;
and execution shall issue therefor.

Sect. 9. Any party, aggrieved by the judgment of the justice,

' may appeal to the next district court in the same county, and may

enter such appeal at any time within twenty-four hours, Sundays
not included, after the judgment was rendered by the justice ; in
which case no execution shall issue, and the case shall be entered,
tried and determined in the district court, in like manner as if it
had been commenced there.

SECT. 10. Before such appeal is allowed, the appellant shall
recognize with suflicient surety or sureties to the adverse party, if
required by him, in a reasonable sum, with condition to prosecute
his appeal with effect, and pay all costs arising after the appeal.

Sr-:c'r. 11. The appellant shall, at the district court, produce
a copy of the record, and of all the papers filed in the cause ;
except when depositions or other written. evidence or documents
are filed, the originals shall be produced at the district court, instead of copies; and, if the appellant shall fail to produce such
papers, and enter.and prosecute his action, the court, on complaint
of the adverse party, may aflirm the former judgment and costs.

SECT. 12. Every justice may issue subpaenas for witnesses in
civil actions, pending in the supreme judicial court, district court,
or before county commissioners, himself, or any other justice, referees or auditors.

Sr:c'r. 13. He may adjourn his court by proclamation, from
time to time, as justice may require.

Seer. 14. Whenever a justice of the peace is unable, by reason
of sickness, or other unforeseen cause, to attend at the time and
place by him appointed for holding a court, any other justice in the
county, who can legally try a cause between the parties in the
pending suit, may continue such cause, once, not exceeding thirty
days, and note such continuance on the writ in such suit; and, in
case the disability of the justice, to whom the writ was returnable,
is not removed at the expiration of the time of adjournment, such
action may be entered before, and tried by, any justice of the peace
of said county, at the time and place to which it was so adjourned, who may render judgment an_d issue execution accordingly.

SECT. 15. N 0 justice shall be of counsel for either party, or
give advice to either parity, in a suit before him.

Beer. 16. Every justice of the peace may issue writs of scire
:f(lCl&9 against executors or administrators, upon a suggestion of
waste, after judgment against them; and also against bail, taken in
any civil action, and indorser of a writ; and enter judgment, and
issue execution. as any court might do in like cases.

, Beer. 17. In all cases of scire facias against bail, or the indorser of a writ, or executors or administrators, and in all trustee processes, or original writs against two or more defendants, in proceedings before a justice of the peace, or a judge of the municipal or
police court, where the defendant or trustee resides out of the
county, where the proceedings are had, such justice or judge may
direct the writ or execution to any proper oliicer of the county,
where the_defendant or trustee resides; and such officer shall charge
fees for travel, from the place of his residence to the place of service only, and. postage for receiving and returning the execution.

I Snow. 18. Every such writ of scire facias shall be served, not
less than seven days, nor more than sixty, before the time when it
is returnable.

Snow. 19‘. Every justice of the peace shall keep a fair record
of his proceedings; and, when any one shall die, after having given
judgment in a cause, but before such judgment is satisfied, it shall
be in the power of any other justice of the same county, on complaint of the creditor, to issue a smnmons to the person, in whose
possession the record of such judgment is, directing him to bring
to him the same record ; and, if such person shall contemptuously
refuse to produce the same, or to be examined respecting it, on
oath, the justice may commit him to prison, as punishment for
the contempt, to be detained until he shall submit to such examination, and produce the record.

Seer. 20. When such record is preduced, and delivered to the
justice, and has been by him transcribed upon his own book of
records, the original shall be returned to the person, who produced it-.

Seer. 2!. A copy of such transcription, attested by the transcribing justice, or otherwise proved to be a true copy of the same,
shall be legal evidence in all cases, where an authenticated copy of
the original might be received.

Snow. 22. On such transcribed record, the justice may issue
execution, in the same manner, as if the judgment had been rendered
by himself; changing the form, as the circumstances shall require:
but no such execution shall issue, after the expiration of one year
from the time the judgment was rendered, unless after scire facias.

Seer. 23. Every justice who may remove from the state, shall,
before his removal, deposit with the clerk of the judicial courts in
the county, for which he was commissioned, all his records and
papers, appertaining to his said otiice.

S1-:c'r. 24. The executor or administrator of any deceased justice, shall, also, be bound to deposit all the records and papers of
such deceased justice, relating to his office, which shall come into
his possession, in the clerk’s office in the county, for which such
justice was commissioned.

Seer. 25. The person, neglecting to comply with the duty,
required of him in either of the two preceding sections, shall forfeit and pay one hundred dollars; to be recovered on indictment.

Snow. 26. The said clerk shall receive and safely keep all such
records and papers, and may grant certified copies of them which
shall be as good evidence, as if certified by the justice.

Snow. 27. If any justice has died or removed, or shall die or
remove, from the state, without recording and signing any judgment by him rendered in any action before him, and his docket,

original writ, and papers appertaining thereto, and execution if
any issued, shall have been deposited in the clerk’s oliice, before
mentioned, such clerk may, and shall, when required, on payment
of usual fees, make out and certify copies of all the papers in such
cause, and all facts appearing in such docket; and such copies
shall be legal evidence. _

Snow. 28. Any justice, whose commission has expired, or may
expire, and shall not be renewed, is authorized to issue and renew
executions on any judgment, by him rendered while in commission ;
which shall be obeyed by the oflicer, as if the commission of the
justice had not expired; and also to certify copies of judgment
rendered by him ; but this power shall not continue more than two
years, from the time such commission expired.

Snow. 29. Any justice may hear and decide causes at his
dwellinghouse, ofiice, or at any other suitable place; and the writ,‘

in such cases, shall be made returnable accordingly.

Ss:c'r. 30. In all cases, except those mentioned in the first section, the defendant shall plead the general issue, and need not file
any brief statement.

[See Stat. 1842, ch. 10. Stat. 18%, ch. 86.]

 

CHAPTER 1 1 7.

OF THE LEVY OF EX!-JCUTIONS ON PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Stcr. 1. Oliicer to set of executions against Stcr. 15. If attached, sale as of other chatesoh other. tell.
2. What goods may be taken and sold 16. O$cer of the corporation to cor.
on execution. tify the shares owned by the
3. Money may be so taken. debtor.
4-. Time of sale of goods on execu- 17. Purchaser entitled to a certificate
tion. of the shares.
6. Manner of sdvertising. I8. Purchaser -entitled to dividends
6, 7. Adjournment of sale. 03381’ the attachment.
8. 0$cer may require indemnity. 19. Manner of giving notice of sale.
.9. Re-sale, if purchaser refuse to take 20. Sale of franchise of a corporation,
the goods. and notice therefor.
10. Omcer’s return to specify the goods 2]. Mode of selling.
sold. Penalty for «violationof his 22. Delivery of possession.
duty. 23. Rights and liabilities of the 9!’ll. Disposal of proceeds of sale. chaser.
12. Sale of a building, or rents and 24. Right of redemption.
profits thereof, on execution, for 25. Mode of applying proceeds of sale
the ground rent. on several executions.
43. Shares in incorporated companies 26. Notice of second attachment to
msyhesokl. hegivenso thetirst sttschingdl

14. Notice of seizure on execution. hear, in oertsin eases.

Sxc'r. 27. Disposal of proceeds of sale of an Snow. 40. Such property may be sold, mbject

F

equity of redemption.

28. Three preceding sections applicable to all officers. Provision for
second attachment by other oilicers.

Q9. Shares in all incorporated companies to be sold as herein provided.

30. County commissioners may enforce payment of damages by
turnpike corporations.

31. Sale of franchise may be adjourned.

32. In what county proceedings for
such sale may be had.

33. If sale of property on execution
be suspended by a prior attachment, lien to continue.

34. Such lien to continue thirty days.

35. Executions not to be set off, if one
has been assigned.

36. Nor unless the parties be the same

to the claim of the mortgagee.

41. Action of debt on order or judgment of county commissioners.

42. Manner of issuing and executing
warrants of distress against towns.

43. Mode of levying them on real estate.

44. Notice and incidents of sale, in
such cases.

45. Indemnity of the person, whose
property is so sold.

46. Any inhabitant or proprietor may
pay his proportion of such warrant.

47. Such payment shall discharge his
liability thereon.

48. And from executions in favor of
others who have been levied upon.

49. Manner of ascertaining an individual’s proportion.

50. Purchaser of a right, under a contract, to a conveyance of real esin both. tate, may have a bill in equity to
37. Nor to affect the lieu of an at- compel performance.
torney. 5]. Proceedings, if the obligor dis38. Proceedings, to attach and sell
personal property under mortgage.

39. Application of the proceeds of
sale.

close a.n assignment of the obligation.

SECTION 1. When a sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner or other
ollicer, has in his hands executions, wherein the creditor in one execution is debtor in the other, any such oflicer is hereby directed to
cause one execution to answer and satisfy the other, so far as the
same will extend ; and this shall be his duty also, if one of such
executions is in the hands of such oflicer, and the creditor in the
other shall be in possession of his execution, and shall tender the
same to such oilicer, and demand of him to set off the one against
the other, in the manner prescribed in this section; provided also,
the creditor in one execution is, in the same capacity and trust,
debtor in the other.

SE01‘. 2. All chattels, real and personal, liable at common law
to attachment, and not exempted therefrom as provided in chapter,
one hundred and fourteen, shall be liable to be taken and sold on
execution, as prescribed in this chapter.

‘S1:c'r. 3. Current gold or silver coin may be taken on execution
and paid to the creditor, as money collected ; and bank notes, and
all other evidences of debts, issued by any moneyed corporation,
and circulated as money, may be taken on execution, and paid to
the creditor at their par value, if he will accept them ; otherwise,
they may be sold like other chattels.

Snow. 4. Goods and chattels, legally taken on execution, shall
be safely kept by the officer, at the expense of the debtor, for the
space of four days, at least, next after the day on which they were
taken, exclusive of Sunday; and they shall be sold within fourteen
days next after the day of seizure, except as hereinafter provided;

unless, before such sale, the debtor shall redeem them, by otherwise 1
satisfying the execution. '

Seer. 5. The oflicer shall post up public notice of the time]
and place of sale, at least forty-eight hours before the time of sale,]
in two or more public places in the town, or place of sale.

Seer. 6. If, at the time appointed for the sale, the ofiicer should be prevented by sickness, or other casualty, from attending at the:
place appointed; or, being present, should deem it for the advantage of all concerned, to postpone the sale, for want of purchasers,
or other suflieient cause, he may postpone the sale, not exceeding
six days, next after the day appointed; and so, from time to time,
for like good cause, giving notice of every adjournment, in like
manner, as required in the preceding section.

Seer. 7. For good reason, and for the purpose of obtaining a;
better price for the goods to be sold, he may, if he should deem itg
for the benefit of the debtor, adjourn the auction to another place
in the same town.

Snow. 8. Where there is reasonable doubt, as to the ownership
of goods, or their liability to be taken in execution, the officer may
require sufiicient security to indemnify himself.

Snow. 9. If the highest bidder, at such a sale, shall refuse to
take and pay for an article, the oflicer shall sell the same again at
auction, at any time within ten days, giving due notice of the second sale; and he shall account for what he shall receive on the
second sale, and for any damages he may have recovered of the
first bidder for a loss on the re-sale, as for so much received on the
execution. Snow. 10. The ofiicer, who shall make such sale, shall, in his
return thereon, particularly describe the goods sold, and the price
at which each article or lot, describing it, was sold; and, if any
oflicer shall be guilty of any fraud in the sale or return, he shall
be liable to the debtor, to pay him five times the sum of which he
was defrauded; to be recovered in an action of the case.

Seer. 11. The money, arising from the sale of any property
on execution, shall be applied to paying the charges, and satisfying' the execution; and the residue, if any, shall be returned to
the debtor on demand, or otherwise legally applied, in the manner
provided in section, twenty-five.

SECT. 12. When a lessor of any lands, leased for the purpose
of having any buildings erected thereon, shall commence an action
against the lessee, and attach the same building, within six months
after the rent becomes due, and recover such rent, be may, on execution, cause the rents and profits of such buildings to be sold for
such term of time, as will be suflicient to pay the debt and costs;
or cause such building to be sold, observing the same directions of
law, as in the sale of any other personal estate; and, in the latter
case, saving, to the debtor, the right to redeem the same within
one year, by payment, to the purchaser, of the full amount paid
by him and interest thereon.

Seer. 13. Any share or interest of any stockholder or proprietor, in any incorporated company, may be taken on execution, and
sold in the following manner. ‘

Snow. 14. If the property has not been attached on mesne pro:cess in the same suit, the oflicer shall leave a copy of the execution

with the treasurer, cashier, clerk or other recording ofiicer of such
incorporated company; and the property shall be considered as
seized on execution, when the copy is so left.

Saar. 15. If the property has been, and then is attached, the
‘officer shall proceed in seizing and selling it on execution, in the
, same manner, as in case of goods and chattels.

Saar. 16. The officer of the company, havingthe care of the
records, or account of shares or interest of the stockholders, shall,
upon the exhibition to him of the execution, be bound to give such
ofiicers a certificate of the number of shares, held by the judgment
debtor, or amount of his interest, under the same -penalty, as is
prescribed for refusal to give such certificate to an officer, exhibiting a writ of attachment, as provided in chapter, one hundred and
fourteen, section, forty-five.

SECT. 17. Within fourteen days after the day of sale, the officer shall leave an attested copy of the execution and of the return
thereon, with the officer of the company, whose duty it may be to
record transfers of shares; and the purchaser shall thereupon be
entitled to a certificate or certificates of shares bought by him, on
paying the fees therefor, and for recording the transfers.

Snow. 18. If the shares or interest of the judgment debtor had
been attached in the suit, in which the execution issued, the purchaser shall be entitled to all dividends, which shall have accrued
after the attachment.

Sr:c'r. 19. In making sale of such shares, or interest, of any
stockholder or proprietor, the ofiicer holding the execution shall
give notice in writing of the time and place of sale to the debtor,
by leaving the same at his last and usual place of abode, if within
the county, where such ofiicer dwells; and public notice of such
time and place of sale, by posting up notice thereof in one or more
public places in the town or plantation, where the sale is to be
made, and also in two adjoining towns, if there be so many, thirty
days, at least, before the day of sale; and shall also publish an
advertisement of the same import, and naming the judgent debtor,
three weeks successively before the day of sale, in some public
newspaper, printed in the same county, if there be one, if not, then
in an adjoining county; and, if the debtor never lived in such
county, the posting of the notification and publishing the advertisement, as aforesaid shall be held sufiieient. ‘

Snow. 20. Whenever judgment has been recovered against any
turnpike, bridge, canal, or other incorporated company with power
to receive toll, the franchise of such corporation may be sold on
execution at public auction; the officer giving notice of the time
and place of sale, by posting a notification in any town or plantation, in which the treasurer, clerk or any officer of the company,
if -there be any oflicers, if not, where any stockholder may reside,
thirty days at least before the day of sale, arid by causing an advertisement, naming the creditor therein, to be inserted three weeks
successively in ome public newspaper printed in any county, where
either of said officers, or if without ofiicers, any stockholder resides,

four days before the day of sale; and, if there be no newspaper.
printed in any such county, then in any adjoining county.

Sn:c'r. 21. In the sale of such franchise, whoever will pay and.
satisfy such execution, and all fees and incidental expenses, in consideration of being entitled to receive to his own use all such toll,
as the corporation may be entitled to demand and receive, for the
shortest period of time, shall be deemed the highest bidder, and
the purchaser for such period of time.

S1-:c'r. 22. Immediately after such sale, the ofiicer shall deliver
to such purchaser, possession of the toll houses and gates, in whatever county they may be situated; who may receive to his own
use the tolls accruing within the time limited by his purchase;
which proceedings shall be stated in the return of said oflicer.

Sec? 23. The purchaser of such franchise, and those claiming
under him, shall have all the powers necessary for the convenient
use of the same, which were before vested in the corporation, and
be bound to discharge the same duties, and be liable to the same
penalties and forfeitures, during the- term of the said purchase, as
before were required of the corporation; and said purchaser, or
those claiming under him, may recover of said corporation, any
moneys paid by him, or expenses incurred, in consequence of his
said liability, and without any fault or negligence on his part.

Snow. 24. The corporation may, at any time within three
months after the day of sale, redeem said franchise, paying to the
purchaser such sums as he may have paid in satisfaction of the
execution, with twelve per cent. interest thereon, in addition to the
toll he may have received.

Snow. 25. If goods, or any other property sold on execution,
shall have been attached by any other creditor, or seized on any
other execution, by the same or any other oflicer, or if before payment of such residue to the debtor, any other writ of attachment
or execution against him shall be delivered to the oflicer, who made
the sale, the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to the discharge
of the several judgments, in the order in which the respective writs
of attachments or executions shall have been served ; and the residue, if any, shall be paid over to the debtor.

Sac-r. 26. If an attachment or seizure is made, on execution,
of a share in any incorporated company, or of any other property
which may be attached without taking and keeping exclusive possession thereof, and if the same property shall be subsequently
attached or taken on execution by any other officer, he shall give
notice thereof to the officer, who makes the sale under the first
attachment or seizure; and, if the latter, without such notice, pay
to the debtor the balance of the proceeds of the sale, he shall not
be liable therefor, to the person claiming under such subsequent
attachment or seizure. e ;

Snow. 27. When the right of redeeming mortgaged real estate
is sold on execution, the proceeds of the sale, after satisfying the
execution on which the sale was made, shall be applied and disposed of in the same manner, as is provided in the case of sale of
goods.

Seer. 28. The provisions in the three preceding sections shall

be equally applicable to sheriff's, deputy sheriffs, coroners and constables, and their ofiicial proceedings in the cases mentioned, in
said sections; and personal property, attached by a coroner, may
be again attached by a sheriff, deputy sheriff or constable, subject
to the former attachment, by giving notice thereof to such coroner,
and furnishing him with a copy of the precept within a reasonable
time thereafter, and vice versa ; and personal property attached
by a constable, may be again attached by a coroner, or by a sheriff
or deputy, when necessary, in the same manner. o

Snow. 29. The shares or interest, held by any persons in any
incorporated company as aforesaid, may be attached, and taken
and sold on execution, in the manner provided in this chapter, and
in no other manner, notwithstanding any thing to the contrary, in
the act incorporating such company.

SECT. 30. Whenever any damages are assessed, in favor of any
person, by the county commissioners, or by a committee or a verdict ofa jury, for any injury sustained by him,- by an'y acts of any
of the corporations aforesaid, authorized to demand and receive toll,
and the damages shall not be paid in thirty days after order, or the
acceptance of such verdict, or of the report of the committee, such
person may have a warrant of distress, against any such corporation,
for the damages assessed, and interest and costs.

Snow. 31. The officer, holding such warrant, shall have the
same right to adjourn the vendue, as in case of sale of goods on
execution.

Snow. 32. All proceedings, respecting the attachment and sale
on execution of the franchise of any corporation. entitled to demand and receive toll, and sales on warrant of distress, as mentioned in the thirtieth section, may be had in any county, in which
either the creditor, or the president, clerk, treasurer, or any director
of said corporation, if there be any such officer, if not, where any
stockholder may reside.

Sacr. 33. When any estate, real or personal, is seized on execution, and further service of the execution is suspended, by reason
of any prior attachment of the same, such estate shall be bound
by seizure, until it is set off or sold, in whole or in part, under the
prior attachment, or until the same is dissolved. ~

Snow. 34. If the estate is set off or sold, in part, under the
prior attachment, or, if the same be dissolved, the estate, or such
part thereof as remains undisposed of, shall continue bound for
thirty days thereafter, by the seizure on execution ; and the service
of the execution may be completed, in like manner as if the estate
had been first seized thereon, at any time within thirty days,
although the return day of the execution may have passed.

Snow. 35. Executions shall not be set off against each other,

when the sum, due on the first, has been lawfully and in good faith

assigned, to another person, before the creditor in the second execution became entitled to the sum due thereon.

SECT. 36. Nor, where there are several creditors in one execution, and the sum due on the other, is due from a part of them
only; or where there are several debtors in an execution, and the
sum due on the other, is due to a part of them only.

Snow. 37. Nor shall it be allowed, as to so much of the first.
execution as may be due to the attorney in the suit, for his fees
and disbursements therein. §

Snow. 38. When a creditor of a mortgager or pledger of any‘
personal property, instead of summoning the mortgagee, pledgee
or holder, to answer to him in a process of foreign at.tachment,,
elects to attach the property so mortgaged or pledged, it -may be!
lawful for him so _to do, first paying or tendering to such mortgagee, 
pledgee or holder, the full'amount of the debt for which it is so}
mortgaged or pledged ; and, any such property, so redeemed, mayi
be sold on execution, as any other personal property. M

SECT. 39. . The officer shall apply the proceeds of the sale,i
after deducting his fees and charges of sale, to the payment of the;
sum, so paid or tendered to the mortgagee, pledgee or holder, and»
the interest thereon from the time of such payment ; and the resi-I
due of such proceeds shall be applied to the satisfaction of the
plaintiff ’s judgment, in manner by law provided.

SECT. 40. Such plaintiff may have the same attached and
seized, and sold on the execution, as in other cases, subject to the
rights and interest of such montgagee, pledgee, or holder, without

paying or tendering payment of the debt due to the mortgagee,
pledgee, or holder.

S1.-:c'r. 41. When a warrant of distress has been, or shall be
issued by any court of county commissioners, and has been or may
be returned, in whole or in part unsatisfied, and the same remains
unsatisfied, the party interested, and for whose benefit the.warrant'
was issued, may have and maintain an action of debt founded on
said order, or judgment of said commissioners, before the proper
court of the county, in which the record exists, in the same-mam
ner, and under the same regulations, as actions of debt may be
brought and maintained on a judgment of any other court; in
which action, interest shall be allowed on the sutnxdue, and included in the judgment.

Snow. 42. All executions or warrants of distress, against any
town, shall be issued against the goods and chattels of the inhabitants thereof, and against the real estate therein situated, whether
the same is owned by such town or not; and it shall be the duty
of the oflicer, executing such precept, to satisfy the same by distress and sale of the goods and chattels of the inhabitants, in the
manner by law provided.

SECT. 43. For want of sufiicient goods and chattels to satisfy
the same, after diligent search, which fact the ofiicer shall certify in
his return, it shall be the duty of the oflicer to levy upon and sell
the real estate in said town, by lots, as the same are owned or
occupied, or as t_he same may have been lotted out on the plan
thereof; so much as may be necessary to satisfy said precepts and
expenses of sale.

SECT. 44. It shall be the duty of the oflicer to advertise in the.
newspaper, published by the. printer to the state, and also in one of
the newspapers printed in the county, where the lands lie, if any
there be, three weeks successively, the names of such proprietors
as are known to him, of the lands which he proposes to sell, together

with the amount of the execution or warrant of distress; and, where
the names of the proprietors are not known, he shall publish the
numbers of the lots or divisions of said land; the last publication
to be three months before the time appointed for the sale. And,
if necessary to complete the sale, he may adjourn the same, from
day to day. not exceeding three days. And he shall give a deed
to the purchaser, to hold said land in fee; expressing in said deed
the cause of sale. And the proprietor of the land, so sold, shall
have a right to redeem the same, at any time within one year from
the time of sale, on paying the sum for which the same was sold,
and the necessary charges and interest thereon.

Snow. 45. The owner of any real or personal estate, so sold

for the purposes above mentioned, shall be entitled to recover

against such town, in an action of assumpsit, the full value of the
property so- taken and sold, with interest, at the rate of twelve per
cent. yearly, with costs of suit; and may be admitted to prove
the real value thereof, whatever may have been the‘price at which
the same was sold.

Sacr. 46. Whenever any such warrant of distress or execution
shall be issued, as aforesaid, against any town, it shall be lawful for
any inhabitant thereof, or for any proprietor of any lands therein,
either before or after the issuing of such precept, to pay his part or
proportion of such order or judgment; which part or proportion
shall be ascertained by an assessment or apportionment thereof,
made by the assessors of said town ; and which service they shall
be required. to-’ perform, at the request of any such inhabitant, or
proprietor, or on notice given them by the county commissioners.

SE01‘. 47. Every person, so paying his part or proportion to
the treasurer of the corporation, for the use of the person interested, or to such person himself, shall be discharged, both as to his
person and his property, from such warrant or execution.

Saar. 48. If, any such warrant or execution has been, or shall
'be levied on the property of any person, who at the time has not
«paid his part or proportion, every person having so paid, or that
shall so pay his part, as aforesaid, shall be discharged from all executions that may be issued on any judgment against the inhabitants
of such town, on account of said levy, and his person and estate
shall forever be discharged.

Snow. 49. The certificate of the major part of the assessors of
such town, of any person’s part or proportion, shall be conclusive
evidence thereof; and, being delivered to the oflicer, he shall, on
payment thereof, in manner aforesaid, in his return on the execution or warrant, return the same satisfied for that sum, with the
name of the person who paid it.

Snow. 50: The purchaser at auction of the right, which any
person has tova deed’ of lands on certain condition named in a
written contract, shall have the same remedy by bill in equity to
compel a conveyance of it, as mortgagers have to compel mort-gagees to convey to them, on performance of, or offer to perform
the condition of a mortgage.Sac'r. 51. Whenever any obligor shall plead, or in his answer
disclose an assignment of the bond or contract, prior to the attachment by the ob1igee,’or person entitled to the conveyance, and the(
validity of such assignment shall be put in issue, the court shall t‘.
cause the assignee to be made a party to the bill; and, on hisc
appearance or non-appearance, may direct the same to be tried by 
a jury ; and, if found fraudulent, it shall be no bar to the convey- 1

once prayed for.

 
 

CHAPTER 118.
or BAIL IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sam‘. 1. How bail dull be taken. Snow. 11. Principal to be committed to jail.
2. Names of bail to be entered on ex- Ii. When discharged, if not taken in
ecutions. execution.
3. Officer to notify bail. Fees. 13. Proceedings, when bail is taken in
4. Surrender of principal into court. a justice action.
5. In case of avoidance, oRicer’s duty, 14. Surrender, and commitment of
and liability of bail. principal in such case.
6. Scire facias against bail, in such 15. Ofiicer’s duty and fees.
case. 16. Surrender in such case, after
7. Form of the scire facias. judgment.
8. Limitation of such action. 17. Surrender before judgment.
9. Pleading: and defence, by hail. 18. Remedy of bail against principal. _
-10. Surrender of principal on Icire
facias.

SECTION 1. Bail shall always be taken, and the bail bond be!
returned and filed with the writ, in the manner mentioned in the‘
one hundred and fourteenth chapter.

Snow. 2. If judgment be rendered against the principal in the1
action, in which the bail was taken, the clerk of the court or jus-2
tioe of the peace, issuing the execution on such judgment, shall, on:
the margin of the execution, insert the names of the persons who
became bail, with the place -of their abode, and their addition, provided, they are named .in the bail bond; and, if the debtor was
committed to jail, such clerk or justice shall note, in like manner,
the jail to which he was committed. .

Snow. 3. The officer, holding said execution, whether the debtor:
had given bail to the arresting ofiicer, or to the jailer, shall notify‘,
the bail personally,or by leaving a notice, in writing by him signed,’
-at the usual place of abode of the bail, if living in his county, at
least fifteen days before the expiration thereof, certifying, that he
cannot find the principal debtor, nor property wherewith to satisfy
the execution; for which service he shall be entitled to demand
and receive of the hail the usual fee for the service of a writ, and
for travel from the dwellinghouse of the oflioer, to the dwellinghouse of the bail; and shall minute in -said notice the amount of
the fees ; which the bail shall pay in twenty days, unless, one day
at least, before the execution is returnable, the bail shall produce
and deliver to the ofiicer the principal debtor.

Snow. 4. If the bail shall not have committed the principal to

prison, in the manner mentioned in the said one hundred and fourteenth chapter, they may, at any time, before final judgment in the
original suit, bring the principal into court, where the action is pending, and deliver him into the custody thereof, and.be thereby discharged of their suretyship.

Seer. 5. In case of the avoidance of the principal, and return
on the execution by the officer, that he has had the same execution
in his hands at least thirty days before. the expiration thereof, and
that the principal is not found, his bail shall be obliged to satisfy
the judgment with interest thereon, from the time when it was rendered, unless he shall discharge himself by surrendering the principal, before final judgment against him on the writ of scire facias,
or by other sufiicient defence.

Seer. 6. When the principal shall so avoid, and his goods,
chattels or lands cannot be found to satisfy the execution, the person, for whom judgment was given, shall be entitled to a writ of
scire facias in his own name from the same court, against the bail,
which may be taken out of the clerk’s office in vacation, as well as
term time.

Sr:c'r. 7. In such writ, the plaintiff need not declare on the bail
bond, but may merely allege, that the defendants became bail in
the original action.

SECT. 8. No such action shall be maintained against any person, as a bail, unless commenced within one year from the time
judgment was rendered against the principal.

Seer. 9. The bail may plead jointly or severally, that they
"never became bail, as alleged in the writ. and, under that plea, may
avail themselves of every defence, which would avail them in an
action of debt on the bond, upon the plea that it is not their bond ;
or may shew any special matter of discharge, filing a brief statement thereof, as by law provided.

S1-:c'r. 10. The bail may surrender the principal in court, before
final judgment on the scire facias, and deliver him the order of
court, and, on paying all the costs on the scire facias, they shall be
discharged.

: Snow. .1 1. The principal, so surrendered, shall be committed to
the county jail, there to remain for the space of fifteen days, in
order to be taken in execution. '

Seer. 12. If the creditor shall not, within fifteen days next
Eafter such surrender of the principal, take him in execution, the
sheriff shall discharge him, on payment of the legal prison fees.

S1-:c'r. 13. When bail is taken, on mesne process, in an action
triable before a justice of the peace, and there shall be a return on
the execution issued on the judgment in such suit, that the principal is not found ; said justice may issue a scire facias thereon
against the ‘bail, to be served seven days before the day of trial;
and, if no suflicient cause is shown to the contrary, he may render
judgment for the debt and costs recovered, with interest thereon,
from the time judgment was rendered against the principal; and
it shall be no bar to such scire facias, that the debt and costs on
the original judgment, when added together, shall exceed the sum
of twenty dollars.

SECT. 14. If the bail shall, at any time before final judgment
in the original suit is rendered. or upon the return of the scire facias
and before final judgment thereon, bring the principal before such
justice, and procure the attendance of the sheriff, his deputy, or a
constable of the town, in which the court is holden, t.o receive such
principal, such justice shall make a record of such surrender, and
shall order him into the custody of such officer; and he shall commit the principal to jail, to he proceeded with as mentioned in the
eleventlt and twelfth sections; and, on payment of costs arising
on the scire facias, the hail shall be fully discharged.

SECT. 15. It shall be the duty of the otiicer to attend before
such justice, for the purpose aforesaid, when so requested; and, for
so doing, he shall be allowed the same fees as for arresting and
committing defendant on nicsue process; and, for neglect of odicial duty in the above case, he shall be answerable for all damages
to the party injured thereby. L

SFZCT. 16. it-Vhen the principal is surrendered to such justice,
after final judgnient in the original action, the bail shall deliver to
the oliiccr a copy of the entry of the surrender, which entry the
justice is bound to make, attested by the justice; and the officer
shall deliver the same to the jailer, on committing the prisoner to
his custody; and this shall be a suflicient warrant to the ollicer, for
receiving and conveying him to jail, and to the jailer, for holding
him in custody.

SECT. 17. If the principal is surrendered, before final judgment
in the original suit, the bail shall deliver to the officer a copy of the
original writ, with the return indorsed thereon, attested by thejustice ; and the oliicer shall deliver the same copy to the jailer; and
this shall be a sutlicient warrant to the oflicer and jailer, as mentioned in the preceding section.

SECT. IS. Bail may liare their remedy against their principal,
by an action on the case, for all damages sustained by them, by
reason of their suretyship.

CHAPTER 1 19.
or TRUs'TEE PROCESS on FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

Star. 1. In what actions trustee process may ‘SECT. 8. What corporations may be sumbe used. moncd as trustees.
2. Form of the writ. 9. Trustee, about to leave the stats,
3. Mode of service. may disclose before a justice. 4. Effect of service on the trustee. 10. Course of proceeding in such case.
5. In what county the action shall be 11. Any trustee may so disclose, by
commenced. consent. '
6. Insertion of additional names of 1%. An inhabitant of another state may
trustees. be adjudged trustee.
7. Notice to principal, if absent from 13. Effect, if defendant in a suit be
the state. Trustee may appear summoned as trustee of the plainfor him. tif.

Sues‘. 14, 15. Costs in such case.

16. Costs, if trustee be discharged, the
Erst term.

17. If adjudged trustee, he may retain
his costs.

18. Lien for costs on specilic articles
in his hands.

19. Disclosure to be sworn to.

W. Proceedings against the principal,
if the trustees be all discharged.

2!. Additional compensation, if trustee dwell in another county.

'£. Liability of trustee, for not appearing at the first term.

23. Joint liability for costs, if several
fail to appear.

24. Exception, in favor of trustees residing out of the county, or absent
from the state, at the time of service.

25. If the action fail, costs for defendant  trustee.

%. No costs to trustee, on discontinuance, unless he appear.

27. Trustee living out of the county
may appear by attorney.

.28, 29. Proceedings in such case.

30. Disclosure, how sworn to.

31. Trustee not appearing, to be defaulted. «

32. Trustee may submit a statement
of facts to the court.

33. Plaintiff. may prove other facts,
not stated nor denied in the disclosure.

34. Such proof may be submitted to
the court or a jury.

35. Proceedings, if trustee disclose
an assignment of the principal’s
claim.

36. Assignee may be summoned.

37. If he appear, his title to be tried.

38. If he do not appear, his claim to
be void.

39. Principal defendant may be a witness.

4!. Trustee may appear by consent, at

a subsequent term, as of the
first.

$3. Executor or administrator liable
as trustee for a debt or legacy.

44. If a person die, after being adjudged trustee, the goods and etfects
are held in the hands of the administrator.

45. If trustee die before judgment, his
administrator may be cited.

46. If administrator do not appear,
judgment may be rendered.

Saar. 47. 1:‘ he do not pay,soire facias to

issue.

48. Proceedings, if trustee die, within
thirty days alter judgment is rendered.

49. Manner of issuing execution, if
administrator be adjudged trustee.

50. Remedy on his bond, if he neglect
to pay.

51. Specidc articles in trustee’s hands
to be delivered to the oilicer.

52. Remedy, if trustee refuse.

53. Mode of settling the value, as between the principal and trustee.

54. If part only be taken, balance to
be delivered to the principal.

55. Ollicer to restore surplus proceeds
of sale.

56. Trustee process, after commitment
of the debtor.

57. E3'ect thereof.

58, 59,60, 61. Proceedings, if trustee
disclose property mortgaged to
him.

62. Trustee not prevented from selling
the property mortgaged.

63. Cases, in which a person shall not
be adjudged trustee.

64-, 65, 66. Proceedings, if defendant,
in an action pending, be summoned as trustee of the plaintiff.

67. Money or goods may be attached
by trustee process, before they are
payable.

68. Proceedings, if trustee do not pay
costs, when liable.

69. Goods, ii-audulently conveyed, may
be held by tmstee process.

70. Trustee may retain in his hands
pay for any demand justly due
him.

71. But not for unliquidated damages.

72. Form of judgment against a trustee.

73. Discharge of trustee no bar to
claim of principal.

74. Scire facias against trustee.

75, 76, 77. Judgment on scire facias.

78. Liability for costs, if discharged
on scire facias, not having been
before examined.

'79. 1f examined in the original suit, he
may be examined again on scire
facias.

K). Goods and eEects liable to another
attachment, if not demanded in
thirty days. Exception.

81. If there be no second attachment,
principal may recover them.

82. Demand, how made, if trustee be
out of the state.

83, 84-. Efect of judgment against
trustee.

Snow. 85. Penalty, if trutee disclose hlsely. Star. 93. Subsequent proeeedingm,

86. Trustee exempt from costs on sci- 94-. ‘Discharge of trustee, it‘ judgment
re facias, in certain cases. be less than five dollars. Excep87. Form and service of trustee pro- tion.
cess for justice courts. 95. How execution shall issue, if de88. In what county to be brought. fendant or trustee remove from
89. Default, if trustee do not appear. the county.
90. Costs, if discharged. 96. Proceedings, if trustee be dis9l. May retain costs, if adjudged trus- charged, living in a county differtee. i eat from plaintiff and defendant.

92. Costs, on discontinuance.

SECTION. 1. All personal actions, except them of detinue, replevin, actions on the case for malicious prosecution, slander by
writing or speaking, and those for assault and battery, may be commenced by foreign attachment, or trustee process, in the supreme
judicial court or district court, or, when the amount demanded in
damages is not less than five dollars, nor more than twenty dollars,
before a municipal or police court, or a justice of the peace.

Snow. 2. The writ shall be in the form heretofore established,
authorizing an attachment of goods and estate of the principal
defendant, in his own hands, as well as in the hands of the trustees ;

and may be varied from time to time, as the supreme judicial court
may order.

Seer. 3. The oflicer serving such, writ shall attach the goods
and estate of the principal, of the value required, if so much can
be found by him, and read the wrig to him, or leave a copy of it,
at his last and usual place of abode: which shall be a sufficient
service on the principal, whether any trustee is holden or not.

Snow. 4. Such service, on the trustee, shall bind all goods,
effects or credits of the principal defendant, entrusted and deposited in his hands or possession, to respond the final judgment in the
action in like manner as goods or estate, when attached by the
ordinary process.

Snow. 5. If all the trustees live in the same county, the action
shall there be brought, and, if they reside in different counties, the
action shall be commenced in any [county], in which any one of
them resides; and, in a trustee process against a corporation aggregate, such corporation, for this purpose, shall be considered as
having its residence in the county, in which such corporation has
its established or usual place of business, or shall have held its last
annual meeting, or shall usually hold its meetings. a

Snow. 6. The plaintiff may insert the names of as many persons, as trustees, as he may deem necessary, at any time before the
process is served on the principal, but not after ; and he may cause
a further service to be made~on any of the trustees, if found expedient, if the service be afterwards made or renewed on the principal; but no costs for services shall be taxed for the plaintiff in such
case, except for that last made.

Snow. 7. When the principal is out of the state at the time of
the service, and has no agentwithin this state, the same notice shall
be given, as is provided in the twenty-eighth section of chapter,
one hundred and fourteen ; or the same proceedings may be had,
as is provided in sections, two and three, of chapter, one hundred

_ and fifteen, as they may be severally applicable, unless, in the

-mean time, he shall come into the state before the sitting of the
court; and, when he does not appear in his own person or by attorney, any one or more of the trustees, having goods, effects or credits
in their hands, and having been adjudged trustees, may appear in
his behalf, and in his name plead and defend the cause.

Sr-zccr. 8. All corporations, except counties, towns, school districts and parishes, may be summoned as trustees, and the writ
served on them, as other writs on such corporations ; and they may
answer by attorney or agent, and make disclosures, which shall be
signed or sworn to by such attorney or agent ;' and the same proceedings shall thereupon be had throughout, except necessary
changes in form, as in other cases of foreign attachment.

SE01‘. 9. When any person, summoned as trustee, is about to
depart from the state, or go on a voyage and not return before the
term of the court, where he is summoned to appear, he may apply
to a justice of the peace and quorum of the county, where the
trustee resides, for a notice to the plaintiff in the suit, to appear
before him at a place and day appointed for taking the disclosure
of such trustee.

SECT. 10. On service having been made and returned, accord‘ing to the order of such justice, the examination and disclosure
shall be taken and sworn to before the justice, and, being certified
and returned to court, the same proceedings may be had thereon,
as if it had been in court. ..

Snow. 11. In any case, where a person has been summoned as
trustee, his examination and disclosure may be so taken, when the
plaintiff and trustee consent thereto. ‘ e

Sscr. 12. Any person, on whom a trustee process shall be

served, in any mode by law prescribed, shall be liable to be adjudged trustee by the court, though he was not then, and never
had been, an inhabitant of this state; and the writ may be made
returnable in the county, in which either the plaintiff or principal
defendant may reside.

SECT. 13. Whenever an action is brought for the recovery of a
debt, and the defendant has been, or shall be, summoned as a trustee of the plaintiff, the action shall be continued to await the disclosure of the trustee, unless the court shall otherwise order, and,
if the defendant shall be adjudged trustee, the disclosure and the
proceedings thereon may be given in evidence on the trial of the
action, between the trustee and his creditor.

Snow. 14. If the amount disclosed shall be equal to the sum
recovered in the action, the trustee shall be liable to no costs, subsequent to the service of the trustee process upon him.

Snow. 15. In such action, as is mentioned in the two preceding
sections, the intervention of the trustee process shall not prevent
the plaintiff from recovering his costs against the principal debtor,
except as is provided in the preceding section.

Snow. 16. If any supposed trustee shall come into court at the
first term, and submit himself to examination on oath, after having
in writing declared, that at the time of the service of the trustee
process upon him, he had not any goods, effects or credits of the

principal in his hands or possession, he shall be entitled to hisl
costs, in the same manner as in civil actions, where issue is joined‘
for trial. .

Snow. 17. If such person is adjudged trustee, he may deduct?
from the amount in his hands, the amount of such costs. ;

Snow. 18. Where such person shall be adjudged trustee for!
specific articles in his hands, he shall have a lien upon the same,
for his costs; and the officer, who shall dispose of the same on ex-;
ecution, shall pay such trustee the amount due him for costs, and]
deduct the same from the amount of sale, and account to the creditor for the balance; the amount of such fees shall be indorsed on
the execution by the clerk, and the same shall be evidence of the
lien.

SECT. 19._ The disclosure, when completed and subscribed by,
the trustee, shall be sworn to by him in open court, or before some
justice of the peace. Seer. 20. If all the persons, summoned as trustees, shall be
discharged, or the suit against them has been discontinued, the
plaintiff shall not proceed against the principal defendant, unless
there has been such aservice of the original writ upon the principnl, as would authorize the court to proceed against him to judgment in an action commenced in the ordinary form; but the principal, if he will, may assume the defence of the suit.

Seer. 21. When the trustee, at the time the writ was served
on him, dwelt in any county, other than the one where the writ
was returnable, the court shall, in case of his discharge, allow him,
in addition to his legal fee, a reasonable compensation for his time
and expenses, in appearing and defending himself.

Snow. 22. If any person, belonging to the county, in which the
writ is returnable, being summoned, shall neglect to appear and
submit to examination at the return term, and having no reasonable cause to the contrary, he shall be liable for all costs afterwards
arising in the suit, to be recovered and paid out of his own goods
or estate, if judgment be rendered for the plaintiff; unless recovered out of the goods or effects in the hands of the trustee, and
belonging to the principal.

Snow. 23. When several trustees, resident in the county, where
the action is pending, being summoned, shall neglect to appear,
the judgment for costs shall be rendered against them jointly.

Seer. 24. Persons summoned as trustees, resident out of the
county, where the suit is pending, shall not be liable for any costs,
arising on the original process herein provided, and, if the person,
summoned as trustee, is out of the state at the time the writ is
served on him, and, if he shall appear at the first term of the court,
after his return, he shall be allowed for his costs and charges in the
same manner, as if he had appeared at the term when the action
was entered.

Seer. 25. When the plaintiff does not support his action
against the principal, the court shall award costs against him, as
well in favor of the principal, as in favor of such persons summoned
as trustees, severally, who have appeared and submitted to examination on oath; and several executions shall issue accordingly.

Snow. 26. When a person, summoned as trustee, does not come’

-iinto court, and declare he had no property or credits of the principal in his hands, when the writ was served, and submit himself
to examination on oath, the court shall not award costs in his favor,

though the suit shall be discontinued.
Sac'r. 27. A person, summoned as trustee. and then living in

.a county other than that where the writ is returnable, shall not be

required to appear in°person in the original suit, or in a suit on
scire facias; but he may appear by attorney, and declare whether
he had any goods or effects of the principal in his hands, when
the writ was served ; and thereupon offer to submit himself to examination on oath.

Secs-. 28. If the plaintiff shall proceed no further, such declaration shall be considered as true. .

Snow. 29. If the plaintitf shall think proper to examine such
supposed trustee on oath, the answers may be taken before a judge
of the district court for the county, in which the trustee may dwell,
or any justice of the peace of such county.

Snow. 30. In all cases, when a trustee has submitted himself to
examination on oath, in court, the answers to such examination
may be sworn to before a judge of such court, or a justice of the
peace; and the same, being filed in court, shall have the same
effect, as if sworn to in open court.

Sscr. 31. When any person has been duly summoned as trustee, and neglects to appear and answer to the suit, he shall be
defaulted, and be thereupon adjudged trustee, as alleged.

Sscu.-. 32. If any person, summoned, shall admit, that he has,
in his hands, goods, effects or credits. of the principal, or shall
wish to refer tmt question to the court upon the facts, he may,
instead of the declaration before mentioned, make a declaration of
such facts as he may deem material, and submit himself thereupon
to a further examination on oath ; and such declaration and further
examination, if any, shall be sworn to, as before provided.

Seer. 33. The answers and statements, sworn to by any person, summoned as a trustee, shall be considered as true, in deciding
how far he is chargeable; but the plaintiti‘ or trustee may allege
and prove any other facts, not stated nor denied by the supposed
trustee, which may be material in deciding that question.

Seer. 34. Any question of fact, arising upon such additional
allegations, may, by consent, be tried and determined by the court,
or may be submitted to a jury, in such manner as the court shall»

direct.

SE01‘. 35. When it appears, by the answers of any person summoned as a trustee, that any effects, goods or credits in his hands
are claimed by a third person, in virtue of an assignment from the
principal debtor, or in some other way, the court may permit such
claimant, if he see cause, to appear and become a party to the
suit, and maintain his right.

Snow. 36. Should such claimant not appear voluntarily, notice
may be issued and served on him, in such manner as the court

may direct.
Snow. 37. If such claimant shall appear, he my be admitted

as a party to the suit, so far as respects his title to the goods, etfectsc
or credits in question; and may allege and prove any facts, not.
stated or denied in the disclosure by the supposed trustee, and such 3
allegations shall be tried and determined, in the manner before
provided. , ‘ .

Snow. 38. If such assignee, having been duly notified, shall not‘
appear in person or by attorney, the assignment shall have 1101
effect to defeat the plaintifl"s attachment. . ‘

Snow. 39. Upon the trial between the attaching creditor and
the person claiming the same, as before mentioned, the principal{
defendant may be examined as a witness for either party, if there‘
be no other objection to his competency, except his being a party
to the original suit.

Snow. 40. All testimony, relating to the additional allegations
of any party in such trial, shall be given by depositions, taken and‘
hled in the usual manner.

Snow. 41. When the plaintiff shall recover judgment against
the principal, and there shall be any person summoned as trustee,
who shall not have appeared and discharged himself, and against
whom the suit shall not have been discontinued, the court shall
award judgment and execution against the goods, effects and credits
in his hands, as well as against the principal, in the usual form.

Seer. 42. If there be any agreement between the plaintiff and
supposed -trustee, that he may appear at a subsequent term of the
court, instead of the first term, saving to such trustee all such
advantages as he would «have had, on appearing and answering at
the first term, the court shall allow him all such advantages.

Saws. 43. Any debt or legacy, due from an executor dr administrator, and any goods, effects and credits in his hands, as
such, may be attached by process of foreign attachment.

Seer. 44. If any person, who is summoned as a trustee in his
own right, shall die before the judgment, if any, recovered by the
plaintiff, shall be fully satisfied, the goods, effects and credits, in his
hands at the time of attachment, shall remain bound thereby; and.
his executors or administrators shall be liable therefor, in like manner, as if the writ had been originaily served on them. 7

Snow. 45. If the person, so summoned, shall die before judgment in the original suit, his executor or administrator may appear‘
voluntarily, or may be cited to appear, in the same manner as is
provided, in the ease of the death of a defendant in a common
action; and the further proceedings shall then be conducted in the
same manner as if the executor or administrator had been originally summoned, as a trustee; except, that the examination of the
deceased, if any had been taken and filed, shall have the same
e5'ect as if hewere living.

Beer. 46. If, in such case, the executor or administrator shall
not appear, the plaintiff, instead of suggesting the death of the

-testator or intestate, may take judgment against him by default or

otherwise, as if he were living, and the executor or administrator
shall :pay, on the execution, the amount, which he would have been
liable to pay to the principal defendant; and he shall be thereby
sliubargad from all demandson the partef the principal defendant

in the suit, for the amount so paid, in like manner as if the executor or administrator had been himself adjudged trustee.

Sec-1-. 47. If the executor or administrator, in the case last
mentioned, shall not voluntarily pay the amount in his hands, the
plaintiff may proceed by writ of scire facias, in like manner as if
the judgment in the first suit had been against the executor or
administrator himself, as trustee: but if such executor -or administrator be discharged, he may recover costs or not, at the discretion

of the court.

Snow. 48. If any person, against whom execution shall issue as
trustee, shall not be living at the expiration of thirty days after final
judgment in the trustee suit, as provided in the eightieth section, the
demand to be made, by force of the execution, for continuing the
attachment, may be made. of the executor or administrator of the
deceased person at any time, within thirty days after the appointment of such executor or administrator ; and it shall have the same
effect, as if made within thirty days after the judgment.

Snow. 49. When an executor or administrator is adjudged trustee, for or on account of any goods, effects or credits in his hands
or possession, merely as such executor or administrator, whether
in a suit originally commenced against him as a trustee, or against
the deceased testator or intestate, and whether the judgment be in
the original suit, or on a writ of scire facias, the execution shall
not be served on his own goods or estate, nor on his person; but
he shall be liable for the amount in his hands, in like manner, and
to the same extent only, as he would have been to the principal
defendant, if there had been no foreign attachment.

Seer. 50. If, after final judgment against an executor or administrator, for any certain sum due from him as trustee, he shall
neglect to pay the same, the original plaintiff, in the foreign attachment, shall have the same remedy for recovering the amount, either
upon a suggestion of waste, or by a suit on the administration bond,
as the principal defendant in the foreign attachment would have
had, upon a judgment recovered by himself, for the same demand
against the executor or administrator.

Seer. 51. When any person, summoned as a trustee, is bound
to deliver to the principal defendant any specific articles, he shall
deliver the same, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to the
officer holding the execution; and the same shall be sold by the
ofiicer, and the proceeds applied and accounted for, in the same
manner, as if they had been taken on execution in common form.

Sr:c'r. 52. If the trustee neglect or refuse to deliver the same,
or sufficient to satisfy the execution, the judgment creditor may
have his remedy on a scire faeias, as provided in sections, from seventy-four to seventy-nine inclusive, of this chapter; and the debtor,
his remedy for any overplus belonging to him, as at common law.

SI-‘JCT. 53. Whenever, by the terms of the contract between the
trustee and the principal debtor, any mode of ascertaining the value
of the property, to be delivered to the officer, shall have been
pointed out, it shall be the duty of the ofiicer, on the application of
the trustee, to notify the principal debtor, previously to the delivery, that the value may be thus ascertained, as far as it may a&'ect

the performance of the contract; and, in other cases, the value of (
the property, as between the principal and the trustee, shall be esti- '
mated and ascertained by the appraisal of three disinterested men,
one to be chosen by the trustee, one, by the oflicer, and one, by
the principal, if he see cause; and, if he neglect or refuse, then
the oHicer shall appoint two of said appraisers ; and they shall all
be duly sworn, to appraise the same; and the officer, justice and
appraisers, shall certify their respective doings on the execution.

SECT. 54. When a part of such goods and articles shall be!
taken in execution, as aforesaid, the trustee may deliver the residue:
to the principal, or tender the same to him, within thirty days after1
satisfaction of the execution, in the same manner, as he might havel
delivered the whole.

Snow. 55. Any surplus money, remaining in the hands of thet
o$cer, after satisfying the execution and fees, shall be paid over to;
the principal, if within his precinct ; and, if not, then to the trustee.;

Snow. 56. Whenever a judgment creditor has caused the debtor,

- to be committed in execution, and may afterwards discover goods,.

effects, or credits of the debtor, not attachable by the ordinary pro-:
cess of law, he may have the benefit of the trustee process, provided 3
in this chapter, in the like manner as any other creditor ; provided, 3
that within seven days after the service of such process, he shalli
discharge the body of the debtor from prison, by a written direction
to the jailer, stating the occasion and reason of the discharge.
Sac-r. 57. Such discharge shall not annul, or affect the judg-I,
ment. ~ ‘
Snow. 58. When any person, summoned as a trustee, shall, in:
his disclosure, state, that he had, at the time the process was served 1
on him, in his possession, property not exempted by law from attach-I
meat, but that the same was mortgaged, pledged or delivered to
him by the principal defendant, to secure the payment of a sum of
money due to such supposed trustee, and that the principal defendant has a subsisting right to redeem the same by payment of such
money, the court or justice, before which the action is pending,
shall order and decree, that, on payment or tender of such money,
by the plaintiff to said alleged trustee, within such time as the court
shall order, and while the right of redemption exists, the person, so
summoned, shall deliver over the property to the oflicer serving the
process, to be held and disposed of in like manner, as if it had been
attached on mesne process; and in default thereof, that he shall be
charged as the trustee of the principal debtor; which order and
decree shall be entered on the records of such court or justice.
Snow. 59. On the return of the scire facias against such alleged
trustee, if it shall appear, that the plaintiff has, on his part, complied with the order and decree of the court or justice, and that
such alleged trustee has refused or neglected to comply therewith,
then the court or justice shall enter up judgment against him, for
the amount of the sum due, and returned unsatisfied on the execution, if there should appear to be in his hands such an amount of
the property mortgaged, over and above the sum received by such
mortgagee or pledges; but if not, then for the amount of said property, so exceeding the above sum, if any; which amount of excess

_ shall, on the trial of the scire facias, be determined by the court
'°" J‘“'YSncr. 60. If, by the disclosure, it appear, that the property in
the hands of the supposed trustee ‘was mortgaged, pledged or subject to a lien to indemnify him against any liability, or secure the
performance of any contract or condition, and, that the principal
defendant has a subsisting right of redeeming the same, the court
may order and decree, that, upon the discharge of such lie-bility,.or
performance of such contract or condition, by the plaintiff, within
such time, as the court or justice may order, and while the right of
redeeming exists, such alleged trustee shall deliver over the property to the officer, to be by him held and disposed of, as if it had
been attached.

Seer. 61. It shall be the duty of the oflicer, selling on execution any personal property delivered to him in virtue of this chapter, after deducting the fees and charges of sale, to pay the plaintiE'
the sum, by him paid or tendered to the trustee, or applied in the
performance of the contract or condition, or discharge or extinguishment of the liability before mentioned, and the interest from the
time of such payment, tender or application to the time of sale;
and so much of the residue as may be required therefor, he shall
apply in satisfaction of the plaintiff’s judgment, according to law;
and he shall pay over the balance, if any, to the debtor; the trustee
to receive of the oflicer his costs, accruing before the service of the
scire facias, as before provided in the sixteenth and seventeenth
sections of this chapter. Snow. 62. Nothing, contained in this chapter, shall prevent the
-trustee from selling the goods in his hands, -for the payment of the
sum for which they were mortgaged, pledged or otherwise liable, at
any time before the amount due to him was paid or tendered, as
before mentioned; provided, such sale would be authorized by the
terms of the contract between him and the principal defendant.

Sac-r. 63. No person shall be adjudged a trustee in either of
the following cases, namely : —

First. By reason of having drawn, accepted, made or indorsed
any negotiable bill, draft, note or other security, except in the cases
provided in the sixty-ninth section of this chapter ; —

Second. By reason of any money or other thing, receivedor
collected by him, as a sheriff or other oflicer, by force of an execution or other legal process in favor of the principal defendantain the
foreign attachment, although the same shouldhave been demanded
of him, previously, by the defendant; —

Third. By reason of any money in his hands, as a public ellicer, and for which he is accountable, as such merely, to the pricipal defendant ; —

Fourth. By reason of any money or other thing, due fromhim
to the principal defendant, unless it is, at the time of_the service of
the writ upon him, due absolutely, and without depending on any
contingency ;—

Fifth. By reason of any debt due from him on a judgment, so
long as he is liable to an execution on the judgment ; —

Sixth. By reason of any amount due from him to the principal

defendant, as wages for his personal labor, for a time not exceeding. one month.

Seventh. Where service was made on him by leaving a copy,
and, before actual notice of such service, or reasonable ground of
belief, that the same has been made, he shall have paid the debt
due to the principal defendant, or given his negotiable security
therefor.

Snow. 64. If, during the pendency of an action, the defendant
is summoned as the trustee of the plaintiff, the first suit may nevertheless proceed so far as to ascertain, by a verdict or otherwise,
what sum, if any, is due from the defendant ; but the court may,

on motion of the plaintiff in the trustee suit, continue the same for

judgment, until the termination of the trustee suit, or until the
attachment therein shall be dissolved by the discharge of the trustee, or satisfaction of the judgment otherwise.

Snow. 65. If the first suit be not continued, and judgment be
rendered therein, the defendant shall not be adjudged’ afterwards a
trustee, on account of the demand thus recovered against him, so
long as he is liable to an execution on the judgment.

Sac-r. 66. If, before final judgment is rendered in the first suit,
the defendant in that suit shall be adjudged trustee in the other,
and shall pay thereon the money demanded in the first suit or any
part of it, the fact shall be stated on the record of the first suit,
and judgment therein shall be rendered for the costs due to the
plaintiff, and for such part of the debt or damages, if any, as shall
remain due and unpaid. '

SE01‘. 67. Any money or other thing, due to the principal defendant, may be attached before it has become payable, provided,
it be due absolutely and without any contingency, as before mentioned; but the trustee shall'not be compelled to pay or deliver it
before the time appointed therefor by the contract.

Sr.-:c'r. 68. If the person, summoned as trustee, and liable for
costs, as provided in the twenty-second section of this chapter,
shall not voluntarily pay them, when demanded by the oflicer, serving the execution, such ofiicer shall state the fact in his return on
the execution ; and, if it appears by the return, that they have not
been paid by any one, the court shall award execution against the
person, so summoned as a trustee, for the amount of such costs.

S1-zcr. 69. If any person summoned as trustee, shall have in
his possession any goods, effects or credits of the principal defendant, which he holds under a conveyance, that is fraudulent and
void, as to the creditors of the defendant, he may be adjudged a
trustee on account of such goods, effects and credits, although the
principal defendant could not have maintained an action therefor
against him.

Snow. 70. Every trustee shall be allowed to retain, or deduct
out of the goods, effects and credits in his hands, all his demands
against the principal defendant, of which he could have availed

himself, if he had not been summoned as trustee, whether by way‘

of set-off on a trial, or by a set-off of judgments or executions
between himself and the principal defendant ; and he shall be liable
for the balance only, after their mutual demands are adjusted.

_ Saar. 71. Unliquidated damages, on either side, for any wrongs
i_ or injuries, shall not be considered as embraced in the preceding

.section, as a subject of set-off.

Snow. 72. When any person has been adjudged trustee, it shall
Lnot be necessary to specify in the judgment the sum, for which he
is chargeable ; but if, on a writ of scire facias against him, it shall
appear that he is chargeable as trustee, the sum for which he is
chargeable shall be expressed in the judgment.

Seer. 73. If any person summoned as a trustee, be discharged,
"the judgment shall be no bar to an action, brought by the principal defendant against him for the same demand. Snow. 74. When any person who has been adjudged a trustee
in the original action, shall not, on demand of the oflicer holding
the execution, pay over and deliver to him the goods, effects and
credits in his hands, and such execution shall be returned unsatisfied, the plaintiff may sue out a writ of scire facias against such
trustee from the same court, or before the justice that rendered the
judgment, to show cause, why judgment and execution should not
be awarded against him, and his own goods and estate, for the sum
remaining due on the judgment against the principal defendant.

Ssc'r. 75. When such trustee, after such writ has been duly
served on him, shall neglect to appear and answer to the same, he
shall be defaulted ; and, if he shall not have been examined in the
original suit, judgment shall be rendered against him for the whole
sum, remaining due on such judgment against the principal defendant.

Snc'r. 76. When there shall be more than one defendant in
such writ of scire facias, and they are all defaulted, not having been
examined in the original suit, the court may enter up joint or several judgments, according to the circumstances of the case, and
issue execution in common form.

Snow. 77. If any trustee, who has been defaulted on the scire
facias, shall have been examined in the original suit, judgment shall
be rendered on the facts stated in his disclosure, or proved at the
trial, for such part, if any shall remain in his hands, of the goods,
effects and credits, for which he was chargeable as trustee, or so
much thereof as shall be then due and unsatisfied on the judgment
against the principal defendant; but, if it shall appear, that such
person paid and delivered the whole amount thereof on the execution, issued on the original judgment, he shall not be liable for any
costs on the scire facias.

Snow. 78. If the trustee appear and answers to the scire facias,
and if he had not been examined in the original suit, he shall be
liable to be examined in the same manner as he might have been
on the original suit; and, if on such examination he shall appear
not to be chargeable, the court shall render judgment against him
for costs only, if resident in the county, where the original process
was returnable ; but, if not resident in such county, then he shall
not be liable to costs, nor shall he recover any costs.

Seer. 79. If he had been examined in the original suit, the
court may permit or require him to be examined anew in the suit of
scire facias, and, in such case, he may prove any matter, proper for

his defence, on the scire facias; and the court may render such(
judgment, as law and justice require, upon the whole matter ap-i
pearing on such examination and trial. 9

SECT. 80. When any person is adjudged a trustee, if the goods, 1
effects and credits, in his hands, shall not he demanded of him by:
virtue of the execution, within thirty days next after final judgment, I
the attachment of them by the original process shall be dissolved ;i
and they shall be liable to another attachment in like manner, as‘
though the prior attachment had not been made; provided, that in!
those cases, where the debt due from the trustee to the principal
defendant is payab_le at a future day, or specific property is in the
hands of the trustee, which he is bound to deliver at a future day,
the attachment shall continue until the expiration of thirty days
after such debt shall be payable in money, or the property aforesaid be demanded of the trustee.

Snow. 81. If there shall be no second attachment, the principal?
defendant in the suit may recover the goods, effects and credits, if 1
not demanded as aforesaid within thirty days, in like manner, as if
they had not been attached. _

Seer. 82. ‘When the ofiicer, holding the execution, cannot find
the trustee in the state, a copy of the execution may be left at his
dwellinghouse, or last and usual place of abode, with notice to
the trustee, indorsed thereon, and signed by the officer, signifying
that he is required to pay and deliver towards satisfying such execution, the goods, effeets and credits for which he is liable; and
this shall be deemed a suflieient demand for all the purposes mentioned in the two preceding sections.

Snow. 83. The judgment against any person as trustee shall
discharge him from all demands by the principal defendant, or his
executors or administrators, for all goods, effects and credits, paid,
delivered, or accounted for by the trustee, by force of such judgment.

Seer. 84. If he is afterward sued for the same by the defendant,
or his executors or administrators, such judgment and disposition of
the goods, effects and credits as above stated, being proved, shall
be a bar to the action for the amount so paid or delivered by him.

Seer. 85. If any person, summoned as a trustee, [as] aforesaid, upon his examination, shall wilfully and knowingly answer
falsely, he shall, on due conviction, be adjudged guilty of perjury;
and shall be bound to pay, to the plaintiff in the suit, the amount
of the judgment he may recover against the principal defendant, if
the same be unsatisfied, or for such part as is unsatisfied, with
interest and costs; to be recovered in a special action on the case.

SECT. 86. If any person, summoned as trustee, shall be prevented from appearing in the original suit, by absence from the
state or any other reason, deemed sufficient by the court, and a
default be entered against him, he shall not be liable for any costs
on the scire facias; but, on his disclosure, the court may allow
him his reasonable costs and charges, to be retained or recovered
in like manner, as if he had appeared in the original suit.

Ssc-r. 87. When a trustee process is issued by a municipal or
police court, or a justice of the peace, the writ shall be in the form

now in use, and may contain a direction to attach property of the

‘principal in his own hands, as well as in the hands of the person

day.

named as trustee. and shall be served in like manner, as a trustee
process issued by a judicial court, seven days before the return

Snow. 88. The action may be brought in the county, where
either of the supposed trustees resides; and, if brought in any
other county, the action shall be dismissed, and the trustee shall

recover his costs.
S1-zc-r. 89. When the person summoned does not appear and

answer to the suit, he shall be defaulted and adjudged trustee;

and be liable to costs on scire facias.
Ssc'r. 90. If he appears at the return day and submits himself

to examination on oath, and shall thereupon be discharged, he

shall be allowed his legal costs.
Seer.-91. If, on such disclosure, he shall be adjudged trustee,

he may retain the amount of his costs.

Snow. 92. When the plaintiff discontinues his suit against the
principal or trustee, the trustee shall be allowed his costs.

Seer. 93. All subsequent proceeding in such causes shall and
may be had, as are in this chapter prescribed, in trustee processes
brought to, and pending in, the supreme judicial court or district
court, varying forms as circumstances may require; except as is
provided in the following section.

Sam‘. 91. When, in such trustee process before a municipal or
police court, or a justice of the peace, the debt recovered against
the principal, shall be a less sum than five dollars, the trustee shall
be discharged; unless the judgment be so reduced, by means of a
set-olf filed in the case. "

Snow. 95. If, after a judgment has been rendered in a trustee
process before a municipal or police court, or justice of the peace,
the principal defendant or trustee shall remove out of the county
in which it was rendered, such court or justice may issue execution
against such debtor or trustee, directed to the proper officer of any
other county, where he may be supposed to reside.

Seer. 96. When an action is brought against a trustee in a
county, where the trustee resides, but where neither the plaintilf or
defendant reside, and such trustee is discharged, or the action discontinued as to him, the action shall still proceed, unless it appear
by plea in abatement, that uch trustee was collusively included in
the writ for the purpose of giving the court, in such county, jurisdiction; provided there was a legal service on the principal defendant.

CHAPTER 120.

.the estate of the deceased.

2. Executor or administrator personally liable for costs, after becoming
I. party.

Execution for costs, how awarded.

I-low awarded, if for damages and
costs.

5. Costs paid, chargeable against the
estate.

6. Proceedings, if execution be returned unsatisfied.

'7. Administrator de bonis non, to
prosecute or defend suits commenced by or against his predecessor.

8. Proceedings, in case of judgment
recovered whilst the predecessor
was in ofiice.

9. Writs of error, in such cases.

10. Executor or administrator to prosecute or defend actions commenced by or against the deceased.
11. Suggestion of death on record, and

:9.”

OF ACTIONS BY OR AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

Sect. 1. Writs and executions to run against SE01‘. 17. Measure of damages, for trespass

committed by the deceased.

18. Goods taken from an administrator by judgment in replevin, not
388018.

19. lf one of several plaintiffs or dofendants die, action to proceed by
or against survivor.

£0. 'When all die, to proceed by or
against the administrator of the
last.

21. No executor or administrate:
bound to defend asuit within a
year.

22. Such suit to be continued.

23. Limitation of actions against them.

14. Proceedings, if assets are received
after four years.

25, 26. Uncertain or future claims,
how preserved.

27. Action therefor, how commenced.

28. Judgment, and execution thereon.

29. Liability for unfaithful administration.

30. Liability of heirs and legatees in

appearance by him. certain cases. '
12. Citation to appear. - 31. Actions for legacies not hereby
13. Nonsuit or default, if he do not barred.

appear. 32. Proceedings, if administrator die,
14. Not personally liable for costs in before completing administration.

such case. 3. Limitation of actions against new
15. Certain actions survive, which do administrator.

not at common law. 34. Further liability if his predecesl6. How prosecuted mar decease of sor gave no notice.

a party. 35. Notice by new administrator.

SECTION. 1. All writs of attachment and execution, against
executors and administrators, for debts due from the deceased testator or intestate, shall run against the goods and estate of the deceased in their hands.

Snow. 2. When a judgment, for costs, shall be rendered against
an executor or administrator, in any action commenced by or against
him or in any action commenced by or against the testator or intestate, wherein the executor or administrator has appeared. and taken
upon himself the prosecution or defence of the action, he shall be
personally liable for the costs ; but, in the latter case, only for costs
after he took on him the prosecution or defence. .

S1-:c'r. 3. When judgment is recovered against an executor or
administrator, for costs only, the execution shall be awarded against
his body, goods and estate, as if it were for his own debt.

SECT. 4. When the judgment is for debt or damages, and costs
also, an execution for the debt or damages shall be awarded against
the goods and estate of the deceased, in the hands of the executor
or administrator, and another execution for the sum due for costs,

against the goods and estate of the executor or administrator, and

also against his body, as if it were for his own debt.

Snow. 5. All costs paid by executors or administrators, and for
which they are made personally liable, shall be allowed to them in
their [administration account; unless the judge of probate shall
decide that the suit was prosecuted or defended without reasonable
cause.

' Seer. 6. When an execution against an executor or administrator, for a debt due from the estate of the deceased, is returned
by the officer, to whom it was delivered for service, unsatisfied by
reason of his being unable to find any goods or other personal estate
of the deceased, the plaintiff may, upon a suggestion of waste, sue
out a writ of scire facias against the executor or administrator ; and,
if he shall not appear after due service of the writ, and shew cause
to the contrary, execution shall issue against him for the full amount
of the original judgment and interest thereon; not exceeding the
full amount of the waste, if it can be ascertained.

Seer. 7. When an executor or administrator shall die, or be
‘removed from office, pending an action brought by or against him,
the same may be prosecuted by or against any administrator de
lbonis non, who shall be appointed after due notice given ; and, if,
after such notice, he shall not appear and become a party to the
suit, judgment may be rendered against him in the same manner,
as if he had voluntarily appeared ; or, as if the suit had been
originally commenced by or against him, and he had afterwards
been nonsuited or defaulted.

1 Snow. 8. When an executor or administrator shall die, or be
removed from office, after judgment shall have been rendered for
or against him, a scire facias may be sued out by or against the
administrator, de bonis non ; and, after due service thereof, an execution may issue, accordingly, upon such judgment, in like manner
as it may be done against an executor or administrator, in case of
the death of a testator or intestate ; except only, that the judgment
against the first executor or administrator for costs, for which he was
personally liable, shall be enforced only against his executor or
administrator, and not against the administrator, de bonis non.

.-, SE01‘. 9. A writ of error, to correct any errors in such judg,_ment, may be brought by or against the administrator, de bonis

W non, if any there be, in the same manner, as it might have been
brought by or against the original executor or administrator who
was a party to such suit.

‘:- SECT. 10. In all personal actions, the cause of which by law,
survives, when there is only one plaintiff or one defendant, and such
sole plaintiff or defendant shall die, after the commencement of the

’action, and before entry thereof, or after an appeal, and before
entry of the appeal, or after entry, and any time before judgment,
the executor or administrator of the deceased party may prosecute

- or defend the action, as hereafter mentioned in this chapter.

Seer. 11. When the action or appeal is entered, the death of

gthe party shall be suggested on the record, and the executor or
administrator of the deceased may appear voluntarily, and prosecute or defend the action, as though it had been commenced by or
against him,

Snow. 12. If such executor or administrator does not appeart
voluntarily, the court, on motion of the surviving party, shall issue,‘
a citation to such executor or administrator, to appear and take on,
himself the prosecution or defence of the suit.

SECT. 13. If the executor or administrator shall not appear, at:
the time mentioned in the citation, after the same has been served,
on him, according to the order of court, he shall be nonsuited or
defaulted, and judgment may be rendered against him.

Seer. 14. But, in such case, the executor or administrator notj
having taken on himself the prosecution or defence of the suit,i
shall not be personally liable for any costs in the action ; but judgment shall be rendered, for such costs, against the estate of the
deceased in his hands. Seer. 15. In addition to actions, which survive, according to‘
the principles of the common law, the following also shall survive,:
namely: actions of replevin, actions of trover, assault and battery,‘;
actions of trespass for goods taken and carried away, and actions:
of trespass, and trespass on the case, for damage done to real or
personal property. a

SECT. 16. All such actions may be originally commenced by
or against executors and administrators ; and, if commenced by or
against the original party in his lifetime, they may be prosecuted
or defended by his executor or administrator.

Sr-:c'r. 17. In actions of trespass, and trespass on the case,
commenced or prosecuted against the executor or the administrator
of the trespasser, the plaintiff shall be entitled to recover only for
the value of the goods taken, or for the damage actually sustained.

S1-:c'r. 18. When judgment for a return, in an action of replevin,
is rendered against an executor or administrator, the goods, returned by him, shall not be considered as assets in his hands, and if
they have been inventoried, such judgment and return shall be a
discharge for the executor or administrator.

SEC-r. 19. When there are several plaintiffs or defendants in a
personal action, the cause of which survives, and any of them shall
die, the death shall be suggested on the record and the cause
shall proceed, at the suit of the surviving plaintiff, or against the
surviving defendant, as the case may be. .

Sr:c'r. 20. When all the plaintiffs, or all the defendants shall
die, in such case, the action may be prosecuted, or defended, by the
executor or administrator of the last surviving plaintiff, or defendant.

SECT. 21. No executor or administrator shall be compelled in
any court to defend a suit, commenced against him in his said capacity, within the term of twelve months next after taking on him such
trust; unless brought for recovery of a demand, not affected by the
insolvency of the estate; or unless the suit is brought, by way of
appeal from the decision of the commissioners of insolvency on the
estate, for the purpose of a trial at common law, to ascertain the
nature or amount of the claim in dispute. ,

SECT. 22. All such suits, except as mentioned in the preceding
section, shall be continued at the expense of the plaintiff, till the
year from the time the trust was accepted shall have expired ; and
any tender of a debt to a creditor, within such year, shall bar any
action, improperly commenced in the course of said year.

Seer. 23. No executor or administrator, who has given bond

:and notice of his appointment, according to law, shall be held to
, answer to the suit of any creditor of the deceased, unless it shall

be commenced within four years from the time of his giving bond
as aforesaid ; excepting in the cases after mentioned.

'r Seer. 24. When assets shall come to the hands of an executor

or administrator, after the expiration of said four years, he shall
account for, and apply the same, in like manner, as if they had
been received within said four years; and he shall be answerable
at law, or to any process in the probate court, on account of such
new assets for the benelit of any creditor in like manner, as if
rreceived within four years; provided such action or process be
commenced, within one year after the creditor shall have notice of
the receipt of such new assets, and not more than four years, after
the same shall be actually received.

Seer. 25. When the demand of any creditor against the estate
of any person deceased, founded on any covenant, contract or

-agreement, shall not accrue within the said four years, the claimant

may file such demand in the probate oflice within said term; and
the judge of probate shall direct the executor or administrator, to
retain in his hands assets, if there are sufficient to satisfy such
demand, unless the heirs to such estate, or devisees thereof, shall
give bond, with suflicient surety or sureties in the opinion of the
judge of probate, to such executor or administrator, to respond the
same.

Seer. 26. When such security is given, the executor or admini istrator shall not be allowed to retain in his hands assets for such
purpose; but the estate shall be liable in the hands of the heirs and
devisees, or those claiming under’ them, to answer the said demand.
. Seer. 27. When no bond is given, as mentioned in the twenty"fifth section, then the action founded on such claim shall be brought
against the executor or administrator ; and, when such bond is
given, the action shall be brought on the bond.

Snow. 28. In such action on the bond, if any thing is found
due to the claimant, he shall have judgment and execution therefor, with costs.

Snow. 29. When an executor or administrator is guilty of unfaithful administration, he shall be liable to an action on his administration bond, for all damages occasioned thereby.

Snow. 30. Where a creditor has a demand against the estate of
a person deceased on any covenant, contract or agreement, which
could not be claimed, until after the said term of four years, such
claimant, if he has not filed the same in the probate court, as mentioned in the twenty-fifth section, may have his remedy against
those, who inherit the estate, or the devisees thereof, against whom
the demand lies, if such claim he made, within one year after the
same becomes due; and not against the executor or administrator.

Sr-:c'r. 31. Nothing in this chapter shall bar any action against
an executor with the will annexed, for the recovery of any legacy,
but the same may be commenced in the same manner, as they
might otherwise have been.

Sr-:c'r. 32. When an executor or administrator shall die, or be
removed, without having fully administered the goods and estate of

the deceased, and a new administrator on the same estate shall be
appointed, the time allowed for creditors of the deceased, for bringing their actions, shall be enlarged. as follows, viz; to so much of
the four years, provided for the limitation of said actions, as shall
have expired, while the former executor or administrator continued
in oflice, shall be added so much time after the appointment of the
new administrator, as shall make live years in the whole ; and the
new administrator shall not be held to answer to the suit of any
creditor, commenced after the expiration of said five years, except
as provided in the following section.

Snow. 33. Every such new administrator shall, in all cases, be
liable to the actions of the creditors, for the space of two years
after he shall have given bond for the discharge of his trust,
although the whole time allowed to the creditors, should thereby
be extended beyond the five years.

Snow. 34. If the former executor or administrator shall not
have given notice of his appointment, according to law, the new
administrator shall be liable to the actions of the creditors for the
space of four years, from the date of such new administrator’s bond.

S1.-:c'r. 35. Such new administrator shall give notice of his appointment in the same manner, as an original administrator; and,
failing so to do, he shall have no benefit from the limitations, contained in this chapter.

 

\

CHAPTER 121.

OF PARTITION OF REAL ESTATE BY SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT, AND
DISTRICT COURT.

Snow. 1. Tenants in common, &c. bound to Sam‘. 16. Who may join in a petition. Promake partition. ceedings, it‘ a petitioner die, or his
2. Petitions for partition. share be alienated.

3. Estate to he described. 17. interlocutory judgment.
4-. Cotenants to be named, if known. 18. Proceedings, if exceptions be filed.
5. In such case, petition may be filed 19. Appointment of commissioners.
and served in vacation. 20. Petitioners’ shares may be set off
6. If cotenants be not named, court to severally, or in common.
order notice. 21. Commissioners to be sworn.
7. Notice returnable in the county 22. Appointment of guardians or agents

where the lands lie. for persons absent or incapacitat8. New notice, in case of failure.

9. Persons not notilied may appear,
and contest, at any time before
final judgment.

10. Guardian for the suit.

ll. Pleadings or brief statements by
respondents.

12. Replications.

13. Costs for respondent, if petition
fail.

14. Costs, if petitioner hold all, or a
part only, of what he alleges.

15. Pleadings and costs on writs of partition.

ed.

23. Commissioners to give notice.

24. All must act: a majority may decide.

25. Proceedings, if it cannot be equally divided.

26. Payment of expenses of partition.

27. New partition in certain cases,if
part owner be out of the state,

and not notified by the commissioners.

28. Mode of proceeding.
29. Return of the commissioners. Acceptance and record thereof.

Star. 30. Recommitment.

31. Final judgment, how far conclusive.

32. Part owner out of the state, during
pendency of the partition, may
petition for new partition in certain cases.

33. Persons claiming in severalty, who
do not appear, not concluded by
judgment for partition.

34. How far concluded, if claiming a
share set off to another person.

‘Szc'r. 35. Mode of proceeding to recover

such share.

36. Proceedings by a part owner, for
whom no share was left, to recover the same.

37. New partition, if one shall be evicted of the part assigned to him.

38. Mortgage, or other lien, attaches
to the part set off in severalty.

39. Indorsement of petitions.

40. Lots reserved for public use: to
be set off by commissioners in

making partition.

SECTION 1. 'All persons, seized of any lands or other real estate
in fee simple or for life, or to, or for which they have a right of
entry, as tenants in common, joint tenants or coparceners, may be
compelled by writ of partition at common law, to divide the
same.

Snow. 2. Any person seized, in fee simple or for life, of any
lands or other real estate, or, to or for which he has a right of entry,
as tenant in common, joint tenant or coparcener, and any person,
possessed thereof, or having a right of entry for a term of years, as
tenant in common with others, may apply to the supreme judicial
court, or district court, held in and for the county, where such real
estate is situated; describing in his petition, in a clear and intelli-'
gible manner, the estate whereof he claims partition, and stating
what proportion he claims to be interested in.

SECT. 3. Such petitioner must state, whether he claims partition
of his alleged proportion, as a fee simple estate, or an estate for
life, or a term of years. Snow. 4. He must also allege in his petition, who are the cotenants of the estate, and their place of residence, so far as those
facts are known to him; and, if any or all the cotenants are unknown to him, he must so state in the petition.

Snow. 5. When the cotenants, alleged, are all named in the
petition, the same may be filed in vacation, in the clerk’s office;
and a copy thereof, by him attested, being served on each of the
alleged cotenants in person, or left at his usual place of abode,
twenty days before the session of the court to which it is addressed,
shall be one sufficient mode of notice.

Snow. 6. When the cotenants are not all named in the petition,
the court, to which it is presented, shall order what kind of notice
shall be given to the parties interested as cotenants; and such
notice shall be given accordingly.

Snow. 7. Such a petition, as is mentioned in the preceding section, may be presented to the supreme "judicial court, in any county,
but the order of notice shall be made returnable to the court, when
held in the county, in which the lands lie; and the cause shall be
heard and determined in such county.

Snow. 8. The court may order such further notice, as they may
deem proper, when the order of notice has not been complied with,
or the notice was imperfect or insufiicient.

S1-:c'r. 9. When a person interested is not named in the petition,
or is out of the state, and has not had notice and an opportunity to

appear and answer to the suit, he may, on motion to the court, at!
any time before final judgment, be allowed to appear and defend.,'

Snow. 10. The court shall assign a guardian for the suit, for‘
any infant or insane person, interested in the premises. :

Snow. 11. Any person. interested in the premises, of which:
partition is prayed, may appear and allege jointly with the other :
respondents, or separately, any matter tending to show, that the,
petitioner ought not to have partition, as prayed for, in whole or in;
part; and this may be done in form of a brief statement, without:
formally pleading any general issue.

Snow. 12. To such brief statement the petitioner may reply, in I
the form of a counter brief statement, that the person thus answer-5‘
ing as a respondent, has no interest in the premises, or right to be
heard ; and may also further reply any other matter to show the
insufficiency of the respondent’s brief statement.

Snow. 13. If it shall appear, that the respondent has no estate‘
or interest in the lands, the objections“ to the partition shall be no;
further a matter of inquiry, and the petitioner shall recover of the,
respondent the costs, attending the trial. 2

Snow. 14. If, on trial, it shall appear, that the petitioner holds’
a less share or proportion in common, than he has alleged in hisl
petition, the respondent shall recover his costs, though judgment be‘
rendered for the petitioner to have an assignment in severalty of i
the part, which he in fact holds in common; but, if it appear that
the petitioner is entitled to have partition, and an assignment of
the part, described in his petition, he shall recover costs of the
respondent.

Snow. 15. In all actions, at common law, for partition, the like
rules of proceeding shall be observed in the trial, as to the filing of ‘
brief statements and counter statements, as in cases of petition for
partition; and costs shall be taxed upon like principles.

Sr-:c'r. 16. Tenants in common, claiming -under a common an-‘
cestor, joint tenants, and copartners may, all, or any two or more
of them, join, or sever, in petitions for partition; and whenever‘
they join, and either petitioner shall decease, or convey his share,‘
pending the petition, the court may allow an amendment of the
petition ; and his name may be erased, and the names of his heirs,
devisees or grantees, respectively, inserted in his stead; and they,
with the other petitioners, may proceed in the cause for their respective shares; and the heirs, devisees or grantees of a several
petitioner may be inserted, as petitioners, instead of the deceased
or grantor. ,

Saar. 17. When it shall appear, on trial or default, that the
petitioner is entitled to have partition for the share by him claimed,
or a less share, the court shall enter the interlocutory judgment,
that partition shall be made.

Saar. 18. Whenever, in the trial of a case of partition, originated by writ or petition, as before mentioned, in the district court,
exceptions shall be alleged against the opinion or judgment of said
court in matter of law, as provided in the eighteenth and nineteenth
sections of chapter, ninety-seven ; or whenever a writ of error shall

be sued out of the supreme judicial court to obtain a reversal of the

judgment; in each case, the opinion and decision of said supreme
judicial court shall be certified to the district court, with directions
to proceed in, or dispose of such cause, in conformity to such
decision, so that all the°proceedings in the cause in relation to the
partition prayed for, or actually made, may appear on the records
of the district court.

’ Sscr. 19. The court, having entered the interlocutory judgment, shall appoint three or five disinterested persons, as commissioners, to make the partition, and to set off to the petitioners the
share or shares belonging to them ; which shall be expressed in the
warrant. ’

Snow. 20. When there are several petitioners, they may have
their shares set off together, or in one body; or each one may have
his assigned in severalty, at his election.

Seer. 2| . The commissioners, before proceeding to the discharge of their duty, shall be sworn before a justice of the peace,

''faithfully and impartially to perform it; and the justice, administering the oath, shall make his certificate thereof on the warrant.

r Snow. 22. Where any persons, insane, or incapacitated to take
care of their own business, are interested, guardians shall be appointed for them, if living in the state; and an agent or agents for
all those interested, who had been out of the state, one year at
the time the petition was presented, and had not then returned.

Seer. 23. The commissioners shall give sufiicient notice of the
time and place, for making the partition, to all concerned, who are

known and within the state, that they may be present at the mak- .

ing thereof.
. Seer. 24. All the commissioners shall be present at the performance of the duties assigned them; but the acts of a majority
of them shall be valid.
Snow. 25. When any messuage, tract of land, or other real
_estate, shall be of greater value, than either party’s share of the
estate to be divided, and cannot at the same time be subdivided
among them without great inconvenience, the same may be assigned
to one of the parties; the party, to whom the same shall be so
assigned, paying such sum of money to such parties, as by means
thereof shall have less than their share of the real estate, as the
commissioners shall award ~; but, in such case, the partition shall
not be established by the‘court, until the sums, so awarded, shall be
paid to the parties entitled thereto, or secured to their satisfaction.
. Seer. 26. When partition shall be made, if any of the peti'tioners shall neglect, or refuse to pay his proportion of the charges
attending the partition, an account of such charges shall be laid
before the court, and all just proportions settled, after notice to all
concerned; and the court may issue execution against the delinquents interested.

Ssc'r. 27. If any part owner shall have a larger share set off

to him, than his true and real interest, or more than equal in value
*to the proportion it was set off for, then any aggrieved partner, who,
at the time the partition was made, was out of the state, and not
notified in season to prevent it, may, at any time within three years
after the same was made, apply to the court, which made the partition, and the court shall cause partition thereof to be made anew.

Snow. 28. In uch new partition, the commissioners need not.
make a new division of the premises; but so much, and no more, 1
shall be taken off from any share, as the same shall be considered L
more than the proportion of the whole it was designed for, estimating such lands or real estate, as in the state they were in, when first
divided; and, in case any improvements have been made on the
part that may by such new partition be taken 03' as aforesaid, the
partner who made such improvenients shall have reasonable satisfaction made him by the partner, to whose share the same hall be
added, by the estimation of the commissioners; and the court,
which ordered the partition, are also empowered to issue execution
for such satisfaction and the costs of the new partition, the same
being first taxed and allowed by the court.

Snow. 29. The commissioners shall make return of their pro-.
ceedings under their hands, with their warrant, to the court which:
appointed them; and, if their doingsbe confirmed by the court,‘:
judgment shall be thereupon rendered, that the said partition be
firm and effectual forever; and the return shall then be recorded‘
in the clerk’s oliice, and also in the registry of deeds, for the county
or registry district, where the lands lie.

Sam‘. 30. Forgood and sufficient reasons, the report of the:
commissioners may be recommitted or set aside; whereupon the‘
same proceedings shall be had, as before directed.

Srzc-r. 31. Such final judgment, confirming the partition, shulli
be conclusive, as to all rights both of property and possession of .
all parties and privies to the judgment; including ah persons who
might by law have appeared and answered to the petition, except
as hereinafter provided.

Snow. 32. If any person, who was a part owner with the peti-'
tioner, and for whom a share is left upon the partition, should be out}
of the state, when the notice to him was served, and should notj
return in time to appear and answer to the partition, he may at,
any time, within three years after final judgment, apply to the same?
court for a new partition of the premises; and, should it appeari
to the court, that the share left for the applicantwas less than he was
entitled to, or that the part left was not, at the time of the partition, equal in value to his share in the premises, they may order a
new partition; which shall be made in the manner before provided.

Snow. 33. If any person, who has not appeared and tfnswered j
to the petition for partition, shall claim to hold in severalty the
premises described therein, or any part thereof, heshall not be con-;
cluded by the judgment for partition; but may bring his action for:
the land claimed, against any or all of the petitioners or respond-‘
ents, or of the persons holding under them, as the case may require, within the same time, in which he might ha-ve brought it, if
no such judgment for partition had been rendered.

Snow. 34. When any person, who has not appeared and unswered, as aforesaid, shall claim the share that was assigned or ‘left
for any of the supposed part owners in the judgment for partition;
he shall be concluded by the judgment, so far as it respects the‘
partition and the assignment of the shares, in like manner as if he

had been a party to that suit _: still, he shall not be prevented
thereby, from bringing his action for the share claimed by him,
against the person to whom it was assigned, or for whom it was
left. '

SECT. 35. Such action shall be brought against the tenant in
possession, in like manner as if the demandant had originally
claimed the particular piece demanded, instead of an undivided part
of the whole land; and it may be brought in the same time, in
which it might have been brought, if no judgment for partition had
been rendered. - .

Snow. 36. If any person, who has not appeared and answered,
as aforesaid, shall claim any part of the premises described in the
petition, as a part owner with those, who were parties to the suit,
or any of them, and if the part or share, so claimed, was not known
or not allowed or left for him in the partition process, he shall be
‘concluded by the judgment, so far as it respects the partition ; but
he shall not be prevented from bringing an action for the share,
claimed by him, against each of the persons, who shall hold any
part of the premises under the judgment; and, if he should prevail in such action, instead of his being entitled to a new partition
of the whole premises, he shall recover against each of the persons, holding under the judgment for partition, the same proportion
held by him, that the demandant was entitled to claim out of the
whole premises, before partition was made. Snow. 37. If any person, to whom a share shall have been’

assigned, or left, shall be evicted thereof by any person, who at the
time of the partition, had an elder and better title, than those who
were parties to the judgment, he shall be entitled to a new partition
of the residue, in like manner as if no partition had been made.

SECT. 38. Any person, having a mortgage, attachment, or other
lien on the share in common, of any part owner, shall be bound
by the judgment, so far as it respects the partition; but his lien
shall remain in full force upon that part, which shall have been
assigned to, or left for such owner.

Snow. 39. Every petition for partition, originally filed, shall be
indorsed in the same manner, as original writs; and all the regulations, concerning the indorsement of writs, contained in the one
hundred and fourteenth chapter, shall apply to indorsem.ents of
petitions for partition.

Seer. 40. In any process for the partition of a tract of land,
in which certain lots or proportions of such tract are reserved for
public uses, the court shall also order the commissioners, appointed
to make the partition, that they shall first set off, by metes and
bounds, such reserved lots, or proportions, of an average quality
and situation of the lands of said tract,‘and make return of such
location into the land ofiice, of the state, with a description of its
quality had location, and then proceed to execute the other duties,.
assigned them by the court; and the return, being accepted by the
court, and recorded as before provided, shall be valid, as a location
of such reserved lands.

CHAPTER 122.
or LOCATION or RESERVED LANDS.

SEc'r. 1. District court may appoint a com-‘.Sr»:c'r. 5. Location may be made by the

mittee to locate reserved lands. grantee and accepted by the court.
2. Committee to be sworn. 6. Location may be made on warrant
3. Notice of their meeting. for partition.
4. Return, acceptance, and record of

their location.

SECTION 1. When, in the grant of townships or parts thereof,.']r
there shall be certain proportions of the same reserved for the use.
of such township, or for public uses, and such proportions have notl
been located in severalty by the grantee, for the respective purpo-‘
ses, expressed in the grant, prior to the incorporation of such township, as a plantation or town, the district court in the county where
the land lies, on the application of the assessors of such plantation
or town, may appoint three disinterested persons of the county, and
issue their warrant, under the seal of the court to them, requiring
them, as soon as may be, to locate, in separate lots, the proportions
reserved for the purposes before mentioned; and shall designate
the use. for which each lot is so reserved and located in said township, such lots to be of an average quality with the residue of the
lands therein.

SECT. 2. Said committee, before acting under such warrant,j
shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of the duty assigned them,
before a justice of the peace; and a certificate thereof shall be
indorsed on the warrant.

SECT. 3. They shall also give ‘notice of their appointment, and
of the time and place of their meeting, to execute the same, by
publishing the same in some newspaper in the state, to be designated by the court, and by posting up written notifications in two or
more public places in the same plantation or town, at least thirty
days next prior to their making such location.

SECT. 4. They shall make return of said warrant and their
doings thereon, under their hands to the next district court in the
county, after having completed the service ; which, being accepted
by the court, and recorded in the registry of deeds, of the same
county within six months, shall be a legal assignment and location
of such reserved proportions, for the uses designated.

SE01‘. 5. Whenever the grantee of any such lands shall sever
and locate such reserved proportions thereof for the purposes mentioned in the grant, designating the use for which each lot is located and present the same to said court, such court may confirm
the same; and such location shall then be deemed legal and conclusive, after being recorded as before mentioned.

SE01‘. 6. Or the severance and location of such reserved lands
may be made and completed in the manner, prescribed in the fortieth section of ‘chapter, one hundred and twenty-one, as circumstances may render it convenient. CHAPTER I 23.

OF GRANTING REVIEWS.
SE01‘. 1. In what cases the supreme judicial Snow. 7. Mode of petitioning, on the ground

court may grant reviews. of newly discovered evidence.
2. In what cases the district court may 8. Court may stay execution, on bond

grant them. ' being tiled.
3. Notice. 9. Leave to prosecute a rejected
4. Application, where filed. claim against an insolvent estate.
5. Only one review to be granted. Limitation. ‘
6. Limitation of application. 10. Where new trial may be had.

Section 1. The justices of the supreme judicial court may
grant a review in all civil actions, including petitions for partition,
originally commenced in the late court of common pleas or district
court, and in which judgment has been or shall be rendered in that
court or in the supreme judicial court, whenever they shall judge
it reasonable, and for the advancement of justice, without being
limited to particular cases; including also, prosecutions for maintenance of bastard children.

Sect. 2. Any justice of the district court may, concurrently
with the supreme judicial court, grant reviews of actions, of the
kinds, and in the circumstances mentioned in the preceding section,
in which judgment was rendered in said district court; and also in
actions wherein the judgment was rendered by a justice of the

peace, or municipal or police court.

Snow. 3. No review shall be granted by either court, until due
notice has been given to the adverse party.

Seer. 4. The application, to the supreme judicial court, for a
review may be filed in any county, and the order of notice made
returnable in the county where the judgment was rendered.

Snow. 5. Not more than one review shall be granted in the
same action.

Snow. 6. No review shall be granted, unless application is made
therefor, within three years next after the rendition of the judgment, complained of.

Snow. 7. Whenever an application for a review is filed, if one
of the grounds of application be the alleged discovery of new evidence, the substance of such new evidence, and the names of all

the witnesses by whom the allegation is intended. to be proved,

must be stated in the application, under oath.

Seer. 8. On application for a review by a defendant in a personal action, the court may, in their discretion, stay execution on
the judgment complained of, or grant a supersedeas, upon his tiling
in court his bond, with sureties to be approved by the court, or such
person as they may appoint, in a penal sum, equal to double the
amount of the damages and costs, conditioned to pay said amount, if
such should be the final judgment on the review, with interest thereon
from the date of said bond up to the time of rendition of judgment
in the action on said bond, at the rate of twelve per cent. annually.

S1-:c'r. 9. When any person, whose claim on an insolvent estate
has been rejected, in whole or in part, by the commissioners appointed by the judge of probate, by accident or mistake has omitted
to give notice at the probate otlice, within the time by law prescribed, of his intention to have his claim determined at law, said
court may, after due notice to the executor or administrator on the
estate, if they think that justice requires it, give such applicant
leave to institute a suit for recovery of his claim, at the next district court in the ‘county, where the executor or administrator
resides; but such application must be made, within two years after
the return of the commissioners; and leave shall not be granted
after the lapse of four years from the time administration was
granted; and no distribution shall be disturbed by any judgment,
which may be recovered in such action.

Snow. 10. Whenever a review is granted, by either of said
courts, the trial shall be had in the court by which the review was

granted.
[For additional sections, see Stat. 1841, act qfamendmsnt, § 22.]

I

CHAPTER 124.
or ACTIONS or REVIEW.

Stew. 1. In what court, a writ of review Snow. 9. Judgment.

shall be prosecuted. 10. Costs.
2. Form of the writ. 11. Original attachment or bail, not
3. Mode of service. continued by review.
4-. Attachment of property. 12. Form of judgment, if damages be
6. Entry of the action, and Eling pa- reduced. ‘

pers. 13. Form, if damages be increased.
6, 7. Pleadings, and issue. 14. Provision, in cases of replevin and
8. Evidence and proceedings. set-off.

SECTION 1. Whenever a person is entitled, as a matter of right,
to a review of an action, as provided in the seventh section of the,
one hundred and fifteenth chapter, or whenever a review is granted;
by the supreme judicial court, or by the district court, a writ of
review, in the former case, shall be sued out, and prosecuted in the
same court in which -the judgment complained of was rendered ;
and, in the latter case, the writ shall be sued out and prosecuted
in the court, which granted the review.

S1-:c'r. 2. It shall not be necessary, in the writ of review, to?
recite at length the writ and proceedings in the original suit, but it'

may merely contain a summons to the defendant to appear and
answer to the plaintiff in the review of an action which was brought
by the plaintiff ; and such suit, and the judgment therein, may be
described and identified in a condensed form, so as to render it
intelligible and sutliciently certain.

Seer. 3. Such writ of review may be served in the same man-:
net as other writs; or, when the defendant is not an inhabitant of,‘

or found in the state, it may be served on the person, who appeared, as his attorney, in the original suit.

Seer. 4. If the writ of review is sued out by the original plain-.
till‘, he may cause the defendant’s property to be attached, as might‘

have been done in the original suit, and the form of the writ may
be varied accordingly.

Seer. 5. The plaintiff in review shall enter the action at the
next term after it is granted, unless for special reasons the court on
motion grant leave to enter it at the second term; and he shall
produce in court there to be filed, certified copies of the writ and

judgment, and all proceedings in the former suit, and the originals or copies of all depositions, used and filed therein.

Seer. 6. The cause shall be tried on the issue joined in the
former suit; but the court may allow amendments in any of the
pleadings, as they might have done in the original action, or they
may admit additional issues, or brief statements.

Snow. 7. If the former judgment was rendered on default, or
without any issue joined, the proper pleadings shall be made on
the trial of the review, and the cause he tried thereon.

Snow. 8. Each party may introduce any legal evidence, whether
produced on the former trial or not; and the cause shall be disposed of by verdict, nonsuit, default or otherwise, as if it were an
original suit.

SE01‘. 9. Judgment on the review shall be given, as the merits
of the cause, upon law and evidence, shall require without any
regard to the former judgment, except as is hereinafter mentioned.

Snow. 10. The party, prevailing in the review shall recover
his costs, but this shall not prevent the court, when granting a
review on petition, from imposing on him such terms as to costs,
as they may deem reasonable..

Snow. 11. No attachment made, or bail taken, in the original
action, shall be liable to satisfy the judgment, which shall be rendered on the review.

Snow. 12. If any sum is recovered by the plaintiff in the original action for debt or’ damages, and, that sum is reduced on the
review, the original defendant shall have judgment and execution
for the difference, with his costs; or, if the former judgment has
not been satisfied, one judgment may be set off against the other,
and an execution shall issue for the balance.
_ Sr-:c'r. 13. If the original plaintiff shall recover on the review
a greater sum for debt or. damage, than was awarded to him on
the original judgment, he shall have judgment and execution for
the excess, and costs on the review.

Seer. 14. In review of actions of replevin, and in actions
where an offset is filed, the defendant shall be considered, so far
as it respects the damages, that may be awarded to him, in the
original action, or on the review, like a plaintiff in other actions.

CHAPTER 125.

OF MORTGAGES, THEIR REDEMPTION AND FORECLOSURE, AND OTHER
LIENS ON REAL AND PERSONAL ESTATE.

SE01‘. 1. How mortgages of real estate are Snow. 3. Modes of obtaining possession for
rnade. foreclosure.
2. Mortgagee may enter before breach,‘ 4-. Foreclosure in three years.
unless otherwise agreed. l

l

Sncr. 5. Mode of foreclosing, without taking Snow. 24. Bill in equity, for redemption, may ,

possession. be filed against the state. .
6. Mortgager may redeem within three 25. Where to be filed, and proceedyears, ings thereon.

7. Form of declaring in a suit to obtain possession on mortgage. Conditional judgment.

8. Judgment as at common law, in
certain cases.

9. Form of conditional judgment.

l0. Judgment for defendant, if nothing
be due.

11. Action for foreclosure by executor
or administrator.

12. State treasurer may discharge or
foreclose mortgages, made or as26.

83

.8

On decease of a person entitled to
redeem, his administrator or heir
may redeem. .

. Tender to guardian of mortgagee,

if under guardianship.

. How mortgages maybe discharged.

. Redemption of mortgaged estate

from purchaser of the equity of
redemption.

Redemption of personal property
mortgaged.

signed to the state. 31. Tender of amount due, and pro13. Mortgages to be assets in the hands ceedings to recover the same.

of administrators, who are to be 32. When mortgage of personal proseized to the use of heirs. perty must be recorded.
I4. Against whom action onamortgage 33. Town clerk to record the same.

shall be brought. Fees.
15. Form of judgment, when condition 34. Certain marine contracts need not

is for some set, other than pay- be so recorded.

ment of money. 35. Lien on vessels, by ship carpen.
16, I7, 18. Proceedings in equity, to re- ters and others.

deem a mortgage. 36. Lien discharged, by tender of the
19. Courts to order notice, if mortga- just debt.

gee be out of the state. 37. Lien on buildings erected or re%0. Limitation of such bill in equity. paired by contract and on the
21. Court may allow other persons land. .

joined as defendants, and notified. 38. Such lien to be secured by attach22. Award of execution, on decree of ment.

- court. 39. Dissolved by a tender.

23. Deduction of rents and profits from 4-0. Lien of landlord on buildings

the sum brought into court for redemption.

erected by the lessee.

SECTION 1. Mortgages of real estate, mentioned in this chapter,
include not only those, made in the usual form in which the condition is set forth in the deed, but also those made by a conveyance,‘
appearing on its face to be absolute, with a separate instrument of
defeasance of the same date and executed at the same time.

Snow. 2. Any mortgagee, or person claiming under him, may
enter on the premises, or recover possession thepof before any
breach of the condition of the mortgage, when there is no agreement to the contrary ; but, in such case, if the debt be afterwards
paid or the mortgage redeemed, the amount of the clear rents and
profits, from the time of the entry, shall be accounted for, and
deducted from the amount due on the mortgage.

Snow. 3. After breach of the condition, if the mortgagee, or
any one claiming under him, is desirous of obtaining possession of
the premises, for the purposes of foreclosure, he may proceed in
either of the following ways, viz : F-irst. He may commence an action at law, and obtain possession under a writ of possession, issued on the judgment in the action, as provided in the ninth section, duly executed by an oflicer ;

Second. He may enter into possession, and hold the same, by

consent, in writing, of the mortgager, or the person holding under
him ;— .

Third. He may enter peaceably and openly. if’ not" opposed, in
the presence of two witnesses, and take possession of the premises;
in which case, a certificate of the fact and time of such entry shall
be made and signed and sworn to by such witnesses before any
justice of the peace ; and such written consent, and such certificate,
shall be recorded in each registry of deeds, in which the mortgage
is or by law ought to be recorded; and no such entry shall be
effectual, unless such certificate, or consent in writing, shall be recorded within thirty days next after such entry is made.

Seer. 4. Such possession obtained in either of the three
modes above described, being continued for the three following
years, shall forever foreclose the right of redemption.

S-ac-r. 5. If, after breach of the condition, the mortgagee or
any person, claiming under him, is not desirous of taking and
holding possession of the premises, he may proceed for the purpose of foreclosure, in either of the two following modes, viz : —

First. He may give public notice in the newspaper, printed in
the county, where the premises are situated, or, if there be none
such, then in an adjoining county, or in the newspaper published
by the printer to the state, three weeks successively, of his claim
by mortgage on such real estate, describing such premises intelligibly, and naming the date of the mortgage, and that the condition

in the same has been broken, by\ reason whereof he claims a foreclosure ; and cause a copy of such printed notice, and the name
and date of the newspaper, in which it was last published, to be
recorded in each registry of deeds, in which the mortgage deed is,
or by law ought to be recorded, within thirty days after such last
publication; or,

Second. He may cause a copy of_ such notice to be served and
attested as a true copy, by the sheriff of the county or his deputy,
in which the mortgager or his assignee lives, if in this state, by a
delivery to him in hand, or by leaving the same at his place of last
and usual abode ; and shall causethe original notice and the sherifl"s- return thereon to be recorded, within thirty days after such
service, in manner aforesaid.

Snow. 6. The mortgager or person, claiming under him, may
redeem the morqgaged premises within three years next after taking
possession, or publication, or service of the notice, mentioned in
the preceding sections, and, if not so- redeemed, his right of redemption shall be forever foreclosed.

Sac'r. 7. The mortgagee and, where the mortgage’ has been
assigned, the person claiming under him, in an action for possession,
may declare on his own seizin in a writ of entry, without naming
the mortgage or assignment ; and, if it shall appear to the court on
default, demurrer, verdict or otherwise, that the plaintiff is entitled
to the possession of the premises for breach of the condition of the
mortgage, the court shall, on the motion of either party, award the
conditional judgment hereinafter mentioned, unless it should appear that the tenant is not the mortgager, nor a person claiming
under him.

Snow. 8. Should it appear, that the tenant is not the mortgagor,
nor a person claiming under him, and the plaintiff shall prevail in
the suit, the judgment may be entered for possession, as at common
law, unless the plaintiff should consent, that the conditional judgment should be rendered.

Snow. 9. When such judgment is rendered, the court shall
ascertain, how much is due to the plaintif on the mortgage, and
then enter judgment, that if the defendant shall, within two
months after the judgment, pay to the plaintif the sum, so found
due on the mortgage, with interest and costs of suit, the mortgage shall be -void, and the defendant shall hold the premises
discharged of the same; otherwise, that the plaintif shall have
his execution for possession of the premises, and costs.

Seer. 10. If it shall be ascertained by the court, on inquiry,
that nothing is due -on the mortgage, then the action shall not be
sustained, but judgment shall be rendered in favor of the defendant; and he shall hold the land discharged of said mortgage. ‘

Seer. 11. When a mortgagee, or person claiming under him is
deceased, the -same proceedings to foreclose the mortgage may be
had by the executor or administrator of such deceased person,
declaring on the seizin of such deceased person, as the testator or
intestate might have, if living.

Seer. 12. When a mortgage is made, or assigned to the state,
the treasurer may demand and receive the money due thereon, and,
by his deed of release, discharge the mortgage; and, after breach

of the condition, he may, in person or by his agent, make use of 1

the like means, for the purpose of foreclosure, which an individual
mortgagee might, as specially prescribed in the third, fourth and
fifth sections of this chapter.

Snow. 13. Lands, mortgaged to secure the payment of debts,
or the performance of any collateral engagement, and the debts so
secured, in case of the decease of the mortgagee or person claiming

under him, shall be assets in the hands of his executors or administrators; and they shall -have the same control of them as of a
personal pledge; and, whenever they shall recover seizin and possession of them, they shall be seized and possessed of the estate so
recovered, to the use and behoof of the widow and heirs, or devisees of the deceased, or his creditors, as the case may be; and
may, when the mortgaged premises are redeemed, receive the
redemption money, and give effectual discharges for the same, and
releases of the mortgaged premises.

Snow. 14. An action on a mortgage deed may be brought
against any person in possession of the mortgaged premises; and
the mortgager, or person claiming under him, may, in all cases, be
joined with him as a cotenant, whether he then has any interest or
not in the premises ; but he shall not be liable for any costs, when
he has no estate in the premises, and makes his disclaimer thereto
upon the records of the court.

Snow. 15. When the condition of a mortgage is for doing some
act, other than the payment of money, the court may vary the
terms of the conditional judgment to be rendered, as circumstances
may require; and award execution, unless the defendant shall,

within two months after judgment, perform what shall be therein
prescribed.

Snow. 16. Any mortgager or other person, having a right to
redeem lands mortgaged, may bring his bill in equity for the redemption thereof, within the time limited in the sixth section of
this chapter; and, if he shall, in his bill, offer to pay such sum as
shall be found to be equitably due, or to perform such other condition, as the case may require, such offer shall have the like effect
and force, as a tender of payment or performance made before the
commencement of the suit; and the bill shall be sustained, without proof of such tender, provided the mortgagee, or person claiming under him, shall have refused or neglected on request, to render a true account of the sum due, before the commencement of
the suit; and no costs shall be awarded against the defendant, unless it shall appear, that he unreasonably refused or neglected to
render such account, when requested, of the money due, and of
the rents and profits, and money expended in repairs and improvements, if any, or in any other way by his default, had prevented
the plaintiff from performing or tendering performance of the condition, before the commencement of the suit.

Seer. 17, Whenever a sum of money, due on a mortgage, has
been paid or tendered to the mortgagee, or person claiming under
him, by the mortgager, or the person claiming under him, within
the time limited as before mentioned, he may have a bill in equity
for the redemption of the mortgaged premises, and compel the
mortgagee, or person claiming under him, by a decree of the supreme judicial court, to release all his right and title in the land
to the complainant; though such mortgagee, or his assignee, shall
never have had actual possession of the premises for breach of the
condition.

Snow. 18. Or, in such case, the mortgager or other person,
having right to redeem, may have his bill in the manner prescribed
in the sixteenth section of this chapter, without having made a
tender before the commencement of the suit, and the cause shall
be tried in the same manner.

Snow. 19. When the suit is brought, before an actual entry for
’,.breach of the condition, and before payment or tender, if the
mortgagee, or the person claiming under him, be out of the state,
and shall not have had actual notice, the court shall order proper
'notice to be given to the other party, and continue the cause, as
long as necessary. »

Snow. 20. N 0 bill in equity shall be brought for redemption of
mortgaged premises, founded on a tender of payment or performance of the condition, made before the commencement of the suit,
unless within three years next after making such tender.

Snow. 21. In any‘ suit brought for redemption of mortgaged

_premises, when it shall appear necessary to the attainment of justice, that any other person, besides the defendant, claiming an
interest in the premises, should be made a‘ party with the original
defendant, on motion, the court may order him to be served with an
attested copy of the bill, in such manner as they may direct, and,
on his appearance, the cause shall proceed, as though he had been
originally joined.

Snow. 22. The court, when they shall make a decree ‘for the;
redemption of mortgaged lands, shall have power to award execu- tion, jointly or severally, as the case may require; and for suchf
sums, as shall be found due from him or them, for rents and pro-§
fits, over and above the sums reasonably expended in repairing and
increasing the value of the estate redeemed.

Sr-:c'r. 23. When any sum of money shall be brought into court,l
in a suit for redemption of mortgaged premises, the court shall have}
power to deduct therefrom such sum, as the defendant may beg

_ chargeable with, on account of rents and profits by him received;

or costs awarded against him ; and the person, to whom a sum of 3
money is tendered to redeem such lands, if he shall receive a larger ‘
sum than he is entitled to retain, he shall refund the excess.

Sr:c'r. 24. If the treasurer of the state, and the person apply-1
ing to redeem any lands mortgaged to the state, shall disagree, as:
to the sum due thereon, the person, so applying, may bring a bill:
in equity against the state for the redemption thereof. 1

Seer. 25. Such suit shall be brought in the supreme judicial‘
court; and the court shall order notice to be served on the trea-1
surer of the state in the usual form, and the court shall hear the‘.
cause and decide, what sum is due on said mortgage to the state, ‘
and award costs, as they may deem equitable : and it shall be the
duty of the treasurer to accept the sum, adjudged by the court to
be due, and discharge and release such mortgage.

Snow. 26. If any person, entitled to redeem any mortgaged‘
estate, or to redeem an equity of redemption, which may-have been ‘.
sold on execution, or the right to redeem such right, or the right to=
redeem lands, set off on execution, shall die without having made:
any tender for that purpose, a tender may be made, and a bill for’
redemption commenced and prosecuted, as well by the executors
or administrators, as by the heirs or devisees of the deceased person ; and, if the plaintiff, in any such bill in equity, shall die pending the suit, the same may be prosecuted to final judgment, by his
heirs or devisees, or his executors or administrators.

Snow. 27. When the mortgagee, or other person holding under
him, is under guardianship, as an infant or otherwise, a tender may
be made to such guardian’; and he shall have power to receive the
sum due on the mortgage ; and, upon receiving it, or on performance of such other condition as the case may require, to execute a
release or discharge of the mortgage.

Snow. 28. In all cases, the mortgage may be discharged by the
deed of release of the person authorized to discharge it, or by his
causing satisfaction and payment to be entered in the margin of
the record of such mortgage, in the register’s office, under his hand.

Seer. 29. If the purchaser of an equity of redemption sold, on
execution, shall have satisfied and paid to the mortgagee, or those
claiming under him, the sum due on the mortgage, the mortgager,
or those claiming under him, having redeemed the equity of redemption within one year after such sale, shall have a right to
redeem such mortgaged estate of such purchaser, or any person
claiming under him, within the time and in the manner, he might
have redeemed the same of the mortgagee, had there been no
such sale made, and within such time only.

Seer. 30. When the condition of any mortgage of personal

_.property has been broken, the mortgager, or any person lawfully
;claiming or holding under him, may redeem the same at any time,
'within sixty days next after said breach, unless the property shall
have been sold in the mean time, in pursuance of the contract

between the parties, or on execution for the debt of the mortgager.
Snow. 31. The person, entitled to redeem such property, shall

;pay or tender to the mortgagee, or person holding under him, the

sum due on the mortgage, with all reasonable and lawful charges,
incurred in the care and custody of the property or otherwise arising from the mortgage itself; and, if such property is not immediately restored, the person, entitled to redeem the same, may recover
it in an action of replevin; or he may recover such damages as
he may have sustained by the withholding thereof, in an action of
the case.

SECT. 32. No mortgage of personal property, made since the
twenty-fourth day of April, eighteen hundred and thirty-nine, or
that shall be made hereafter, where the debt thereby secured
amounts to more than the sum of thirty dollars, shall be valid
against any other persons than the parties thereto, unless possession
of the mortgaged property be delivered to, and retained by the
mortgagee; or unless the mortgage has been or shall be recorded
by the clerk of the town, where the mortgager resides.

Snow. 33. The clerk, on payment of his fees, shall record all
such mortgages, that shall be delivered to him, in a book kept for
that purpose, noting in the book, and on the mortgage, the time
when the same was received; and it shall be considered as recorded when left, as aforesaid, with the clerk. His fees shall be
the same, as are allowed for like services, to the register of deeds.

Seer. 34. Nothing in the two preceding sections, shall avoid
or defeat any contract of bottomry, or respondentia, or transfer,
assignment or hypothecation of any ship or goods at sea, or abroad,
if the mortgagee shall take possession of such vessel or goods, as
soon as may be, after the arrival of the same within the state.

Snow. 35. Any ship carpenter, caulker, blacksmith, joiner or
other person, who shall perform labor or furnish materials, for or on
account of any vessel, building or standing on the stocks, or under
repairs after having been launched, shall have a lien on such vessel
for his wages or materials, until four days after such vessel is
launched, or such repairs afterwards have been completed; and
may secure the same by an attachment on said vessel within that
period, which shall have precedence of all other attachments.

Snow. 36. In case any such creditor shall demand or claim
more for his said services performed or materials furnished, as aforesaid, than is just and reasonable, the owner, agent or contractor
may tender the full, fair and just balance to such claimant, and
such tender shall, if refused, absolutely discharge the lien on such
vessel.

Snow 37. Any person, who shall perform labor or furnish materials, for erecting, altering or repairing any house or other building or appurtenances or furnish labor or materials for the above
purposes by virtue of any contract with the owner thereof, or other
person who had contracted with such owner, shall have a lien, to

secure the payment of the same, upon such house or building, and.
the lot of land, on which the same stands, and upon the right of
redeeming the same when under mortgage; and such lien shall
continue in force for the space of ninety days from the time, when
such payment becomes due.

Snow. 38. Such person may secure the benefit of such lien by,
an attachment of such house or building, land or right of redemp-7
tion, within the said ninety days; and such attachment shall have
precedence of all other attachments. not made under any such lien.

SECT. 39. When the debtor shall tender to the creditor the
sum justly due to him, as aforesaid, such lien shall cease.

Snow. 40. When any lot or parcel of land, or any mill privi- ‘I
lege, may be leased for the purpose of having a house, shop, mill:
or other building erected or placed thereon, and rent is reserved in 1
the lease, all the buildings erected as aforesaid, together with all
the interest which the lessee before had, or may have, in the premises, by force of such lease, shall remain liable to be attached by
any such lessor or his assignee to secure the rent due on such
lease, notwithstanding any previous transfer of property by the
lessee; provided, such attachment be made within six months from
the time such rent becomes due.

CHAPTER 1 26.

OF THE RIGHT OF ERECTING MILLS AND MILL DAMS, AND OF FLOWING
LANDS; AND THE MODE OF OBTAINING DAMAGES THEREFOR.

SE91. 1. Right to erect and maintain mill _S1v:c'r. 18. Security to be given for yearly

dams. damages, if required.
2. Not to injure a mill previously 19. Lien upon mill and land, for dambuilt. ‘ ages.
3. Not on another’s land without con- $0. Complainant may sue for damages,
sent. if unpaid.
4. Restriction, as to height of dam. 21. Mill and land may be seized and
5. Damages for flowing, recoverable, sold on the execution, after thirty
on complaint. days.
6. Form of complaint. 22. Effect of such sale.
7. How presented and served. 23. Right of redemption.
8. Service, how made. 24-. Either party may file a new com9. What may he pleaded in bar. plaint.
I0. Mode of trial. Appeal. 25. Restriction of this right.
11. Costs for respondent, if complain- 26. Owner may offer an increased
ant fail. compensation. Consequence.
12. Proceedings, if complainant recov- 27. Injured party may offer to accept a
er. less compensation. Consequence.
13. Trial by jury. Commissioners’ re- ~28. Restriction of suits for damages.
port to be evidence. 29. Costs.

 

14. Acceptance of commissioners’ re- 30. Tenants may make such offers, as

port. well as owners.

15. Verdict or report, to bar any future 31. Agreement of parties binding, if
action. recorded.

t6. Compensation to commissioners. 32. Judgment no bar to a new comI7. Yearly damages, how fixed. plaint.

SI‘.c'r. 33. Tender of damages, and eH'ect Snow. 35. If complaint abate,rights may be
' thereof. preserved by new complaint with34-. Complaint not to abate, by death in a year.
of either party.

SECTION 1. Any man may erect and maintain a water mill,
and a dam to raise water for working it, upon and across any
stream that is not navigable, upon the terms and conditions, and
subject to the regulations, hereinafter expressed.

Snow. 2. No dam shall be erected to the injury of any mill,
lawfully existing, either above or below it, on the same stream;
nor to the injury of any mill site, on which a mill or mill dam
shall have been lawfully erected and used, unless thegright to
maintain a mill, on such last mentioned site, shall have been lost
or defeated by an abandonment, or otherwise.

Snow. 3. Nor shall any mill or dam be placed on the land of

'any person, without such grant, conveyance or authority from the
owner, as would be necessary by the common law, if no provision
relating to mills had been made by any statute.

Snow. 4. The height, to which the water may be raised, and
the length of time, during which it may be kept up in each year,
shall be liable to be restricted and regulated by the verdict of a
jury, or report of commissioners, as hereinafter provided.

Sac:-. 5. Any person sustaining damages in his lands, by their

_being overflowed by a mill dam, may obtain compensation for the
injury by complaint to the district court in the county, where the
lands so flowed shall be situated, or any part of the same; but no
compensation shall be awarded for any damages, sustained more
than three years before the institution of the complaint.

Sect. 6. The complaint shall contain such a description of the
land, alleged to be overflowed and injured, and such a statement
of the damage, that the record of the case shall show, with sutlicient certainty, the matter, that shall have been heard and determined therein.

1 Snow. 7. Such complaint may be presented to the court in

term time, or be filed in the clerk’s office in vacation; and a copy
thereof in either case, shall be served on the person complained
of, by being delivered to him, or left at his dwellinghouse, if he
has any in the state; otherwise, it shall be left at the mill in question, or with the owner of the mill.

Snow. 8. Such service shall be made by the proper oflicer,
fourteen days at least before the term, at which the complaint is to
be heard.

Snow. 9. The owner or occupant of such mill may appear and
plead in bar to such complaint, that the complainant has no right,
title or estate in the lands, alleged to be flowed; or, that he has a
right to maintain such dam and flow the lands for an agreed price,
or without any compensation; or any other matter, which may
show, that the complainant cannot maintain the suit ; but he shall
not plead in bar of the complaint, that the land described therein
is not injured by such dam.

Snow. 10. When any such plea is filed, and an issue in fact, or
in law, is joined, it shall be heard and decided as similar issues are

to be decided in cases at common law; and either party may appeal to the supreme judicial court.

Snow. 11. If, on any such plea, the issue is decided in favor of
the respondent, or the complainant shall become nonsuit, or discontinue the suit, the respondent shall be entitled to his costs, as in
common actions.

Seer. 12. If the issue is decided in favor of the complainant,
or, if the owner or occupant, after being notified as before mentioned, shall not appear, or shall be defaulted, or shall not plead or

show a/ny legal objection to proceeding, the court shall appoint three.

or more disinterested persons of the same county, commissioners,
who shallgo upon and examine the premises, and make a true and
faithful appraisement under oath of the yearly damages, if any,
done to the complainant by the flowing of his lands, described in
the complaint, and how far the same may be necessary ; and ascertain and make report, what portion of the year such lands ought
not to be flowed.

Snow. 13. If either party shall request, that a jury may be
empanneled to try the cause at the bar of the court, the report of
the commissioners shall, under the direction of the court, be given
in evidence to the jury ; subject to be impeached by evidence from
either party.

SECT. 14. If neither party shall request a trial of the cause by
a jury, as before mentioned, the report of the commissioners may
be accepted by the court, and judgment rendered thereon.

Sacr. 15. The verdict of such jury, or the report of such commissioners, where no trial is'requested, being so accepted, shall be a
bar to any action brought for such damages; and such owner or
occupant shall not flow such lands during any portion of the period,
when such flowing is prohibited by the commissioners or the jury.

S1-:c'r. 16. The court shall have power to award reasonable
compensation to such commissioners, which shall be taxed and
recovered by the prevailing party.

Seer. 17. Such verdict or accepted report of the commissioners, and judgment thereon, shall be the measure of the yearly damages, until the owner or occupant of such lands, or the owner or
occupant of such mill, shall, on a new complaint to the court, and
by similar proceedings as in the former case, obtain an increase or
decrease of such damages.

Snow. 18. When any person, whose lands shall be flowed as
aforesaid, shall, on filing his complaint for ascertaining or increasing
his damages, or, on bringing his action of debt, as provided in the
twentieth section of this chapter, move the court to direct the owner
or occupant of such mill to give security for the payment of said
annual damages, as they shall become due, and the court shall so
order, the owner or occupant, refusing or neglecting to give such
security, shall have no benefit of this chapter; but shall be liable
to be sued for the damages occasioned by such flowing, in an
action at common law.

Sr-:c'r. 19. The person, entitled to receive such annual compensation, shall have a lien therefor, from the time of the institution of

the original complaint, on the mill and mill dam, with the appurtenances and the land under and adjoining the same, and used therewith ; provided, that it shall not extend to any sum, due more than
three years before the commencement of the action.

S1-:c'r. 20. The party, entitled to such annual compensation,

_may maintain an action of debt or assumpsit therefor, before the

proper tribunal, against the person who shall own or occupy the
said‘ mill, when the action is brought; and shall therein recover the
whole sum due and unpaid, with costs. A

Snow. 21. The execution on such judgment, if not paid, may,

,at any time within thirty days, be levied on the premises subject to
-"the lien ; and the officer may sell the same at public auction, or so

much thereof in common with the residue, as shall be ngessary to
satisfy the execution ; proceeding in giving notice of such sale in_
the same manner, as in making sale of an equity of redemption
upon execution.

Sr-:c'r. 22. Such sale shall be effectual against all persons claiming the premises by any title, which ‘accrued within the time
covered by the lien.

Snow. 23. Any person, entitled to the premises, may redeem
the same within one year after the sale, on paying to the purchaser
or the person holding under him the sum paid therefor, with interest
at the rate of twelve per cent. deducting therefrom any rents and
profits, which may have been received by such purchaser or person
holding under him ; and may have the same pro_cess to compel the
purchaser to account, as might be had against a purchaser of an
equity of redemption.

Sr-:c'r. 24. When either party is dissatisfied with the annual compensation, established as before provided, a new complaint may be
filed and similar proceedings shall be had, and conducted substantially in the manner, before provided in case of an original complaint.

Saar. 25. No new complaint shall be brought, until the expiration of one month after the payment of the then last year shall
have become due, and one month after notice to the other party;
and the other party may, within that time, make an offer or tender,
as hereinafter provided.

Snow. 26. The owner of the mill or dam, within said month,
may offer in writing to the owner of the land injured, any increase
of compensation to be paid thereafter for maintaining said dam;
and, if the owner of the land shall not agree to accept the same,
but shall bring a new complaint, for the purpose of increasing the
compensation, he shall not recover any costs; unless he shall obtain an increase of damages, in the manner before mentioned in
this chapter. ‘

Snow. 27. The owner of the land injured may also, within said

jmonth, offer, in writing, to the owner of the mill or dam, to accept

any sum smaller than the annual compensation established, to be
paid thereafter for maintaining said dam ; and, if the owner of the
mill or dam shall decline to pay such reduced compensation, but
shall bring a new complaint to obtain a reduction of the same, he
shall not recover costs, unless such compensation shall be reduced
to a less sum than was offered.

Seer. 28. No action shall be sustained at common law for the

recovery of damages, occasioned by the overflowing of lands as
before mentioned, except in the special cases provided in this chapter, to enforce the payment of damages after they have been ascertained by process of complaint, as aforesaid.

Snow. 29. The party prevailing shall recover costs, unless
when it is otherwise expressly provided.

Snow. 30. Such offers may be made by or to the respective
tenants or occupants of the land, and of the mill and dam in question, in like manner and with like effect, as if made by the respective owners; except, that no agreements founded thereon shall
bind the owners, unless made by their consent.

Snow. 31. When an annual compensation upon the acceptance
of one party, of an offer made by the other, is established and
signed by the respective owners of the mill or dam, and of the
land, and recorded in the otlice of the clerk of the court in which
the former judgment was rendered, with a reference on the record
to the former judgment, to the book where the agreement is recorded, such agreement shall be as binding as a verdict and judgment on a new complaint.

Seer. 32. A judgment against a complainant, as not being
entitled to any compensation, shall be no bar to a new complaint
for damages, which have arisen after the former verdict, and for
oompensation for damages, subsequently sustained.

-0

Snow. 33. In case of an original complaint, the respondent‘

may tender and bring money into court, as in an action at common
law; and with the same advantages to himself; and, if the money
is accepted, the judgment shall have the same effect as if rendered on a verdict.

Snow. 34. No complaint for flowing lands shall abate by the

death of any party thereto; but the same may be prosecuted or
defended by the surviving complainants or respondents, or the executors or administrators of the deceased.
Snow. 35. If such complaint shall be abated or defeated for
want of form, or if, after a verdict for the complainant, judgment

should be reversed, the complainant may bring .a new complaint atf
any time within one year, after abatement or reversal as above‘

stated ; and thereon recover such damages, as have been sustained
during the three years next before the institution of the first .oomplaint, or any time afterwards.

 

CHAPTER 127.

OF INQUEBTS OF OFFICE, AND INFORMATIONS FOB. INTRUSION.
Slot‘. 1. Proceedings, to revest in the state, Snow. 5. -Consequence of‘ disclaimer, by delsnds granted on condition. . thndant.
2. Attosneygsnu-a.l to nle  6. Proceedings, if defendant claim
3. Scire twins to issue. Service. title.

4. Judgment on defhnlt.

Snow. 7. 8. Proceedings, if it be adjudged, Sr.c'r. 14. Costs, if defendant recover.

that defendant holds too much 15. Defendant may hold, by title suh—
land, sequently acquired. VVhat judg9. Cases, in which information may be ment, if the state recover.
filed, without order of the legisla- 16. Effect of judgment, that the state
ture. be reseized.

10. Notice, when there is no tenant in 17. Tenant under the state to have
possession. betterments, though occupying

11. Proceedings, judgment and costs. less than six years.

12. Information to recover esclieats. 18. Proceedings by attorney general
Notice. to obtain betterments.

13. Tenant to set up no title, unless 19. Execution therefor, how levied.

he claim under it.

SECTION 1. Where lands have been granted by the colony or
province of Massachusetts Bay, the commonwealth of Massachuetts, or by this state, or shall be hereafter granted on certain conditions alleged to have been violated, and the state shall claim to
be revested in the same, the following proceedings shall be had.

Snow. 2. When the legislature shall direct, the attorney general
shall file an information in the supreme judicial court in the county
where the lands lie, stating the grant and conditions, breaches and
claims of the state.

Sect. 3. The court shall issue a scire facias against the person
stated, as holding the lands under such grant, returnable to said
court; which shall be served, according to law, thirty days before
the return day.

Sr-:c'r. 4. Should the defendant not appear and answer to such
information, judgment shall be rendered that the state he reseized
of their lands.

Secs‘. 5. If the defendant appear and disclaim holding said
lands or any part of the same, the attorney general shall take
nothing by his information, so far as the same respects the lands
disclaimed; and the defendant, and all claiming under him, shall
be estopped from claiming or holding such disclaimed lands.

Seer. 6. If the defendant claims all or any part of such lands
under such grant, and shall traverse the breaches, the cause shall
be tried by jury in due course, and, if the issue he found in favor
of the state, judgment shall be rendered, that the state he reseized
of said estate, and for costs; but, if the issue shall be found for
the defendant, he shall have judgment for his costs of suit, to be
taxed and paid from the public treasury.

Snow. 7. If the only alleged breach of condition is, that the
defendant holds more land than he has a right to hold under the
grant, and the same shall be found by the jury, or the defendant’s
confession, the court shall assign to the defendant, by metes and
bounds, so much of the land held by the defendant, as shall be
equal in quantity to what he has a right to hold under the grant,
and in such part thereof, as shall be judged reasonable by the court.

Seer. 8. Such part shall be located by persons appointed by
the court, at the expense of the defendant, and a plan thereof
returned to the court; and, if confirmed by the court, they shall
order an attested copy of such location and plan to be filed in the
land agent’s oflice, and judgment shall be rendered, that the state
he reseized of the residue, and recover costs of suit. ‘ See-r. 9. In all other cases, where an inquest is necessary, theq
attorney general, without order of the legislature, may file an in-;
formation in said court, describing the estate claimed, and statingi
the title asserted thereto by the state; and notice shall be given as:
before mentioned, when there is any tenant in possession. 1

Snow. 10. When there is not any tenant in possession, then;
notice shall be given, as the court shall order, at least ninety days,
before the sitting of the court, to which it is returnable. :

SECT. 11. If no person shall appear and answer to the informa-:
tion, or, after appearing and answering, and on trial by jury, a ver-!
dict shall be found, that the state has good title to such estate,{
judgment shall be rendered, that the state be seized thereof and?
recover costs; but, if the verdict should be in favor of the defendant, and that he has good title to the land, he shall recover his
costs of suit, to be taxed and paid as betbre provided.

S]-JCT. 12. The attorney general may file an information, in;
manner before mentioned, for recovering seizin by the state for any 1
real estate, supposed to have escheated to the state for want of ‘
legal heirs; and on such information being filed, the court shall
order such notice, as they may judge proper.

Seer. 13. In such case, the defendant shall not be allowed tof
avail himself of the title of an alien or subject of another nation
or sovereign, or any other person, unless he can show that he is
tenant to, or agent or bailiff of such alien.

Seer. 14. If on trial the defendant shall prove himself to be
such tenant or agent, or that he is himself the legal owner of such
estate, then he shall recover his costs, to be paid as aforesaid.

Snow. 15. If the defendant be found not to have been the legal
owner of such estate, or to have any right as tenant, agent or bailiff,
when the process was commenced against him, but had afterwards
acquired a good title, or become tenant, agent or bailiff, the attor-‘
ney general shall cease further to prosecute the suit; but, when the
defendant proves no title to such estate as owner, or interest therein
as tenant, agent or bailiff, judgment shall be rendered, that the
state be seized thereof, and recover rents and profits, as in case of
a writ of entry between private persons.

Snow. 16. When judgment shall, on information, be rendered,
that the state be reseized, or seized, of any lands, the state shall be
deemed and taken in law to be in fact so seized to all intents and
purposes; and all judgments, so rendered, shall conclude all privies
and parties, and those claiming under them, so long as such judgment shall remain in force; subject to the provisions of the following section. »

Snow. 17. Should any person appear, and, by due process of
law, prove himself to have a legal title to such estate, and recover
the same against the state or its grantee or tenant, the same estate
shall be liable for all expenses of improvement thereon made, over
and above the rents and profits thereof; though the tenant and
those claiming under the state had not been in possession six years.

SE01‘. 18. For the purpose of ascertaining the amount of such
improvements, the attorney general, or the tenant or grantee of the

estate, may file a bill in equity in the supreme judicial court, for

7_ recovering the same; and, after due notice and a copy of the bill,
- served on the defendant fourteen days before court, such court may
try the cause, with or without a jury, according to the principles of
law, and render judgment and issue execution for the sum found due.
Snow. 19. The sheriff, by virtue of such execution, shall sell,

at public auction, so much of said land, as will be sutiicient to

satisfy the execution and charges, unless otherwise paid.

 

CHAPTER 128.

OF FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.
Snow. 1. Jurisdiction of justices of the peace Sr:c'r. 4. Proceedings, if defendant plead

and quomm. title.

2. Warrant, and service thereof, in 5. Cases, in which this process lies,
such cases. for unlawful detention.

3. Judgment for complainant, and writ 6. Jurisdiction of municipal and police
of possession. courts.

Ss:c'rroN 1. Any justice of the peace and of the quorum, in

_ the county in which he resides, shall have jurisdiction in all cases
of forcible entry and detainer, except those arising within a city
or town therein, in which a municipal or police court is, or may be

established.
Snérr. 2. On complaint made to him, in writing and on oath,

3of any unlawful and forcible entry into any lands or tenements, or
any unlawful and forcible detainer, he shall issue his warrant under
hand and seal, directed to the sheriff or his deputy, or a constable
of the town, where the person charged resides, to summon him to
show cause, why judgment should not be rendered against him ;
which summons shall be served upon him, by reading the same in
his presence and hearing, or by delivering him a copy, or leaving
it at his last and usual place of abode, seven days at least before
the day set for trial.

SECT. 3. On return of such service, in case of the non-appearance and default of the party charged, or his failing to show suf_licient cause, judgment shall be rendered against him for possession
'of the premises, and the justice shall issue a writ of possession to

remove him.
Snow. 4. Should the defendant plead not guilty to the complaint, and file a brief statement of title in himself, or some other
person under whom he claims the premises in question, the justice
shall thereupon order him to recognize to the complainant, with
sufficient sureties, in such sum as the justice shall order, to pay all
intervening damages and costs, and reasonable intervening rent for
the premises ; and said justice shall require the complainant to
recognize to the defendant, with sufiicient sureties in a reasonable
sum, conditioned to enter the action at the next district court, and
prosecute the same to final judgment, and pay all costs adjudged
against him; and, if either party shall refuse so to recognize, said

justice shall enter judgment, as in case of nonsuit or default,«
against the party, so neglecting or refusing. Either party may appeal from the judgment of the justice, upon issue joined, to the
next district court, recognizing, as aforesaid, to pay such costs as
may be adjiulgetl against him ;. and. if the defendant shall appeal,
he shall recognize to pay such reasonable intervening rent for the
premises, as such justice shall adjudge, in case his judgment shall
not be reversed on such appeal.

Seer. 5. Wihenever a tenant, whose estate in the premises is,
determined, shall unlawfully refuse to quit the same, after thirty
days notice in writing, given by the lessor for that purpose, he shall‘
be liable to the provisions of this act; provided, he shall not have
been in quiet possession of the premises three whole years, next.
preceding the filing of such complaint. '

Seer. 6. Every municipal and police court, now established,
or which may be CSlt1l)llSl1(3(l, in any city or town, shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all cases of forcible entry and detainer, arising in the city or town, where such court is or shall be established;
and concurrent jurisdiction with justices of the peace and quorum,
in such cases arising in the counties in which they are or shall be
respectively established.

CHAPTER 1 29.

OF WASTE, AND TRESPASSES ON REAL ESTATE.
Slot‘. 1. Remedy, if tenant for life or years S1-:c'r. 12. Trespasses on public buildings or

commit waste. property.
2. Heir may sue for waste committed 13. Trespasses, by taking grass, fruit
in his ancestor’s time. or other vegetables from improved
3. Proceedings in court thereon. land.
4. Action on the case may be brought. 14-. Injunction, to prevent waste on
5. Reversioner and remainder man lands under attachment.
may sue. 15. Penalty, for waste on lands of a
5. Such action will lie against execu- person deceased insolvent.
tors or administrators. 16. Liability of executor or adminis7. Part owners not to commit waste, trator for committing such waste.
without giving thirty days notice. I7. One or more tenants in common
8. Treble damages in such case, how may join or sever, in actions for
recovered and appropriated. damages.
9. Qualification of these provisions. ! 18. Notice to the other cotenants, who
10. Trespass on lands of another, with-l may become parties.
out his consent.  19. Mode of entering judgment, and
11. Waste on lands, pending an action awarding execution.
therefor.  20. Scire facia by the other cotenants,
on such judgment.

Sr:c'rroN 1. If any tenant in dower, or by the curtesy, or tenant for life or years shall commit or suffer any waste on the premises, the person, having the next immediate estate of inheritance
therein, may have an action of waste against such tenant, wherein

he shall recover the place wasted, and the amount of damages
done to the premises. a .

Snow. 2. An heir may bring an action for waste done in the
time of his ancestor, as well as in his own time.

SE01‘. 3. If any issue of fact be joined in the cause, it shall be
tried by a jury in court in the usual manner, with or without a view
of the premises, as the court may order; and, in all cases the
jury, that inquire of the waste, shall assess the damages.

Snow. 4. Any person entitled to such action of waste, may,
instead of it, bring an action of the case in nature of waste; in
which he shall recover the damages he has sustained by reason
of the waste.

Snow. 5. Such an action may also be maintained by one, who
has the remainder or reversion in fee simple or fee tail, after an
intervening estate for life, and also by one who has a reversion or
remainder for life or years only; and each of them shall recover
such damages, as it shall appear he has suffered by the waste.

Snow. 6. An action on the case for waste, may be originally
commenced against the executors or administrators of the tenant,
or may be prosecuted against them after the death of the tenant,
when the action was brought against him.

Seer. 7 . If any joint tenant, coparcener, or tenant in common
of undivided lands shall cut down, destroy. or carry away any trees,
timber, wood or underwood, standing or lying on such lands, or dig
up or carry away any ore, stone or other valuable thing found
thereon, or commit any strip or waste thereon, without first giving
thirty days notice in writing under his hand to all other persons
interested therein, or to their respective agents or attorneys, of his
intention to enter thereon, and improve the land, or if he shall do
any of said acts thereon, pending a petition or other suit for a partition of the same premises, he shall forfeit and pay, three times the
amount of the damages, that shall be assessed therefor; to be recovered and appropriated, as mentioned in the following section.

Sr-:c'r. 8. The above mentioned damages may be recovered by
any one or more of the cotenants, without naming any one but the
plaintiff; and the damages shall be appropriated, one half to the
person who shall sue for the same, and the other half to the same
person, together with all the other’ cotenants, except the defendant
in the action ; to be divided among them in proportion to their

respective interests in the land.

Snow. _9. If, in the trial of such cause, the jury shall find, that
the defendant had good reason to believe, that he was owner of the
land, on which the alleged trespass was committed, in severalty,
or if he had been in the exclusive possession of the same, claiming
it as aforesaid, for three years next before the time when the alleged trespass was committed, and preventing the plaintiff to occupy in common, according to his asserted right, single damages
only shall be recovered in such action.

Snow. 10. If any person shall cut down, destroy, injure or
carry away any fruit or ornamental trees, timber, wood, underwood,
stones, gravel, ore or goods or property of any kind, from land not
his own, and without license of the owner, or shall injure or throw
down any fences, bars or gates, or leave such gates open, or break
any glass in any building, he shall be liable in damages to the
owner, to be recovered in an action of trespass.

Snow. 11. . If, during the pendency of any action for the recov-(
ery of land, the tenant shall make any strip or waste, by cutting,;
felling or destroying any wood, timber, trees or poles standing on [J
said lands, he shall, for each offence, pay to the aggrieved party}
treble damages, to be recovered in an action of trespass. e

Snow. 12. Where any trespasses are committed on any build-'1
ings or inclosures, monuments or mile stones belonging to any?
county, town or parish, the treasurer of such corporation may sue:
for the damages in the name of the corporation; and, if the property injured belongs to a, school district, the treasurer of the town,
in which the district is contained, may sue in the name of such
district.

Snow. 13. If any person shall enter on any grass land, orchard:
or garden, and take therefrom without permission of the owner any;
grass, hay, fruit, vegetable or shrub, he shall be liable to the party;
injured, in a sum, equal to three times the value of the articles so]
taken away, in an action of trespass.

S1-:c'r. 14. If any person, whose real estate is attached in any!
civil action, shall do any act of waste thereon, or shall threaten or}
make preparations to commit waste, the court, in which the suit is‘
pending, or any justice thereof in vacation or term time, may issue
an injunction to stay such waste, with or without notice at discretion ; and the court may enforce obedience to such injunction by
all such process, as the supreme judicial court may legally employ
in an equity case, pending in such court, and dissolve such injunction, whenever it may be deemed proper. ~

Snow. 15. If any of the heirs or devisees of any person deceased,
whose estate may be represented insolvent, shall, between the time.
when such representation shall be made, and the time of the con-f
veyance of the real estate of the deceased, on sale for the payment
of debts, in case the estate shall be absolutely insolvent, remove or
destroy any building, or cut down, destroy or carry away any trees,
standing on said land, or lying on it, for timber or firewood, except
what may be necessary for fuel and repairs, or commit any strip or
waste on the land, afterwards sold and conveyed as aforesaid, he
shall forfeit and pay treble the value thereof; to be recovered by
the executor or administrator on said estate, in an action of trespass.

Snow. 16. If such executor or administrator, being heir or devisee as aforesaid, shall commit any of said trespasses or wastes,
within the time limited as aforesaid, on proof before the judge of
probate of the same, he shall be liable in damages to the same
extent, as mentioned in the preceding section; and in both cases,
the damages, when recovered by the executor or administrator, or
found and adjudged against him by the judge of probate, shall be
accounted for in the administration account.

Snow. 17. All or any one or more tenants in common, coparceners, or joint tenants of any lands, may join or sever in personal
actions for injuries done to the same; setting forth in the declaration the names and additions of all the other cotenants, if known.

Snow. 18. Whenever any such cotenant shall bring such action,
he shall, before trial thereof, give to all the other cotenants such
notice as the court shall order; and all or any of them may, at any

time before final judgment, become parties to the action ; and the
plaintiff, with such of the other cotenants as shall thus become
parties, may prosecute the suit for the benefit of all concerned.

SI-:c'r. 19. The ‘court shall enter up judgment for the whole
amount of the injury, proved to have been done to such lands;
but shall award execution only for the proportion thereof sustained
by the plaintiffs, actually prosecuting the suit.

St-:c'1‘. 20. The remaining colenants may, afterwards, either

, jointly or severally, sue out a scire facias on such judgment, and

execution shall be thereupon awarded for their proportion of the
damages, adjudged in the original suit.
[;See additional act, Stat. 1846, ch. 188.]

I

 

CHAPTER 130‘.

OF REPLEVIN OF BEASTS AND CI-IATTELS.

SIc'r. 1. Owner of beasts distrained, may Snow. 11. Judgment for a return.

replevy them. 12. Assessment of damages on judg2. The process. ment for return of property to an
3. Bond to be given, before service of attaching oliicer.

writ. 13. Disposal of the money recovered
4. Judgment, if the beasts be lawfully _ by the officer.

distrained. 14-. Appropriation of the moneys re5. Judgment, if unlawfully distrain- ceived by the creditor in such

ed. ‘ cases.
6. Appeal. 15. Judgment for damages and costs,
7. In what cases, a cause may be if plaintiff recover.

transferred from a justice to the 16. Continuance of attachment, if the

district court. goods be replevied.
8. Any goods, unlawfully detained, 17. When writ of reprisal shall issue.

may be replevied.' 18. Defeudant’s remedy on the replev9. In what courts, replevin may be in bond.

brought. 19. Limitation of surety’s liability on
10. Bond to be given, before service. a replevin bond.

SECTION 1. Any person, whose beasts are distrained or impounded, in order to recover any penalty or forfeiture supposed to have
been incurred by their going at large, or to obtain satisfaction for
any damages, alleged to have been done by them, may maintain a
writ of replevin against the impounder or finder therefor, to be sued
out and prosecuted before any justice of the peace for the county,
in the form prescribed in chapter, one hundred and fourteen.

Snow. 2. The writ shall be sued out, served and returned, and
the cause shall be heard and determined, in like manner as is provided in the case of other civil actions before a justice of the
peace, except as otherwise prescribed.

Snow. 3. The writ shall not be served, unless the plaintiff, or

_some one in his behalf, shall execute and deliver to the oflicer a.

bond tothe defendant, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by
the ofiicer, in a penalty double the actual value of the property to
be replevied, conditioned as stated in the prescribed form of the
writ, and to be returned with the writ, for the use of the defendant.

Snow. 4. If it shall appear upon the nonsuit of the plaintiff, or
upon a trial, or otherwise, that the beasts were lawfully taken or
distrained, the defendant shall have judgment for such sum, as shall
be found to be due from the plaintiff for the penalty of forfeiture,
or for the damages, for which the beasts were impounded, together
with all the legal fees, costs and expenses incurred by reason of the
distress. and also the costs of the action of replevin ; or, instead of
such judgment, the justice, or court having cognizance thereof,
may, in his or their discretion, enter judgment for a return of the
beasts to the defendant, to be held by him for the original purpose,
irrepleviable by the plaintiff, and for the defendant’s damages for
the taking thereof by the replevin, and the costs of suit.

Scott. 5. If it shall appear, upon default of the defendant, or
upon a trial or otherwise, that the beasts were taken or distrained,
without any sufficient or justifiable cause, the plaintiff shall have

_ judgment for his damages caused by the unjust taking and detaining the beasts, and for his costs of the suit.

SE01‘. 6. Either party may appeal from the final judgment of
the justice, as in other civil actions.

Snow. 7. When it shall appear, that the sum demanded for the
penalty, forfeiture or damages, exceeds the sum of twenty dollars,
or that the property of the beasts is in question, and that their value
exceeds twenty dollars, or that the title to real estate is concerned
or brought in question, the case shall, at the request of either party,
be transferred either to the district court, to be there disposed of as
is provided in chapter, one hundred and sixteen, with respect to
other civil actions brought before a justice of the peace. in which
the title to real estate is concerned, or brought in question ; provided, the party, requesting such transfer, shall recognize as in
actions of trespass brought before a justice of the peace. in such
reasonable sum as the justice shall order, to enter the said action
at the next term of the court, to which the action is transferred,
and prosecute the same with effect, and to pay all intervening
damages and costs.

SHUT. 8. When any goods shall be unlawfully taken, or unlawfully detained from the owner or the person, entitled to the possession thereof, or when any goods of that value, which are attached on mesne process, or taken in execution, are claimed by any.
person, other than the defendant in the suit, in which they are so,
attached and taken, such owner or person may cause them to be:
replevied.

SE01‘. 9. If the value of the goods aforesaid shall exceed the
sum of twenty dollars, the writ may be sued out of, and returnable to l
the district court, or the supreme judicial court for the county, in
which the goods are detained, and substantially of the form prescribed in chapter, one hundred and fourteen; and, if the goods;
aforesaid should not exceed the value of twenty dollars, the writ
may be sued out and returnable before a justice of the peace of thei
county, where the goods to be replevied are detained, and substan-4
tially of the same form, but to be made applicable to the jurisdiction;
and may be directed to any county where any defendant may reside;
said writs, in both cases, may be sued out, served and returned like

other writs in civil actions, in all particulars, in .which a diferent
course is not prescribed. Snow. 10. The officer, before serving the writ, shall take from

the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, a bond to the defendant,
with sullicient sureties, in double the value of the goods to be
replevied, conditioned as in the bond described in section, three;
which bond shall be returned to the court from which the writ
issued, with the writ, for the use of the defendant.
‘ 81301‘. 11. If it shall appear upon the nonsuit of the plaintiff,
or upon a trial or otherwise, that the defendant is entitled to a
return of the goods, he shall have judgment therefor accordingly,
with damages for the taking thereof by the replevin, with his costs,
and a writ of return and restitution thereupon accordingly.

Snow. 12. If the goods, when replevied, were taken in execution, or, if they were attached, and judgment be afterwards rendered for the attaching creditor, and if, in either case the service of
the execution be delayed by means of the replevin, the damages
to be assessed for the defendant, in case of a judgment for a return,
shall be not less than at the rate of twelve per cent. by the year,
on the value‘of the goods, for so long time as the service of the
execution shall be so delayed.

Snow. 13. All sums, recovered in an action of replevin by any
officer, for or on account of any goods attached or taken on execution by him, or recovered in an action upon the bond given
upon replevin of such goods, shall be applied and disposed of, as
far as they will go, in the following manner : —

First. To pay the lawful fees and charges of the oflicer and
the reasonable expenses of the action of replevin, and the action
on the bond, so far as they are not reimbursed by the costs, that
may be recovered ; Secondly. To pay to the creditor, at whose suit the goods were
attached, or taken in execution, the sum, if any, recovered by him
in that suit, or as much thereof as shall remain unpaid, with interest therefor, at the rate of twelve per cent. by the year, for such
time, if any, as the money shall have been withheld from the creditor, or the service of his execution delayed, by reason of the replevin; and,

Tht'rdly. If the attaching creditor, in such case shall not recover judgment in the suit in which the attachment was made, or
if any balance shall remain of the money, so recovered by the
ofhcer after paying what is due to the creditor, as before provided,
such balance or the whole amount, as the case may be, shall be
applied and disposed of, in the same manner, as would and ought
to have been done with the surplus, if any, of the proceeds of
sale, in case the same goods had been sold on execution.

Snow. 14. All sums received by such creditor, for the proceeds
of sale of any goods, that had been attached or taken on execution,
and which are afterwards returned, and all sums, received for the
value of any of such goods, as are not returned, and also all sums,
recovered from the officer for the insufficiency of the sureties in the
bond, shall be applied toward the discharge of the judgment recovcred by the creditor; but all sums, received as interest or damages

for the delay of his execution, shall be retained to his own use, and:
shall not go in discharge of the judgment. 4

SECT. 15. If it shall appear, upon default of the defendant, or.
upon a trial, or otherwise, that the goods were unlawfully taken orj
attached, or unlawfully detained by the defendant, the plaintiff ;
shall have judgment for his damages caused thereby, and for his‘
costs of the suit.

Snow. 16. If the goods, which are replevied, had been attach-j
ed, they shall, in case of judgment for a return, be held liable to}
the attachment until final judgment in the suit, in which they were
attached, and for thirty days thereafter, in order to their being
taken in execution; and, if such final judgment be rendered before the return of the goods, or, if the goods when replevied, were
seized and held on execution, they shall be held subject to the
same attachment or seizure for thirty days after the return, in order
that the‘ execution may be served thereon, or the service thereof
completed in like manner, as it might have been, if the goods had
not been replevied. ' '

Seer. 17. When the oflicer, to whom the writ of return and
restitution shall be directed, shall not be able to find in his precinct
the beast, or other property, which by the precept is directed to be
returned, he shall certify that fact in his return; and the court,
whence the same issued, may, upon motion, grant a writ of reprisal, substantially of the form prescribed in chapter, one hundred
and fourteen, against the plaintiff in replevin, to take the goods or
beasts of the plaintiff, not exempted from attachment, of the full
value, to be delivered to the defendant, and held and disposed of
by him according to law, until the plaintiff shall restore the beast
or other property by him taken on the writ of replevin.

Snow. 18. The foregoing provisions shall not preclude the
defendant from resorting to his remedy, on the replevin bond, or
to his remedy against the officer for the insufficiency of the sure-.
ties on the bond, to recover the value of the goods, together with
the damage or loss occasioned by the replevin thereof, notwithstanding he may have endeavored to recover the same by the writs
of return and of reprisal, as herein before provided.

Snow. 19. No action shall be maintained against any person,
as surety in a replevin bond, unless the writ be served on him
within one year after the final judgment in the action of replevin,
or if the action shall not be entered by the plaintiff, and the defendant shall not obtain judgment upon a complaint, such writ
against the surety may be served on him within one year after the

end of the term, at which the action of replevin ought to have
been entered, and not afterwards.

CHAPTER 131.
or BASTARD CHILDREN AND THEIR MAINTENANCE.

SE01‘. 1. Accusation by a woman, pregnant Snow. 8. When complainant may be a witwith a bastard child, and her ex- ness.
amination. 9‘ Proceedings, if respondent be ad2. Justice may issue a warrant. judged guilty.
3. Person arrested, to give bond. 10. To be discharged, if adjudged not
4. On refusal, to be committed. guilty.
5. Cause to be continued, in certain 1]. Complainant not to settle with the
cases. father, if the overseen of the
6. Surrender of principal by his sure- poor object.
ties, and proceedings. 12. Discharge of the father from im7. Declaration to be filed, and form prisonment, on taking the poor
thereof. debtor’s oath.

13. Liability, after such discharge.

SECTION 1. When any woman, being pregnant with a child,
_which, if born alive, may be a bastard, or who has been delivered
of a bastard child, shall accuse any man of being the father thereof, before any justice of the peace, and request a prosecution
against the person accused, such justice shall take her accusation
and examination, on oath, respecting the person accused, and the
time and place, as correctly as either can be described, when and
where the child was begotten, and all such other circumstances, as
he may deem useful in the discovery of the truth.

Seer. 2. Such justice may issue his warrant for the apprehension of such person, directed to the sheriff of any county, in which
the person accused is supposed to reside, accompanied by such
accusation and examination.

Sec:-. 3. When the person is brought before such or any other
justice, he may require him to give bond, with suflicient sureties, in
such reasonable sum as he shall order, to the complainant, conditioned for his appearance at the next district court to be held in
the county in which she resides, and for his abiding the order of
court thereon.

Snow. 4. If the accused person shall refuse or neglect to give
such bond, said justice shall commit him to the jail of the county
of such justice, until such bond shall be given.

Sr-:c'r. 5. If, at such next, or any subsequent court, the complainant shall not have been delivered of her child, or be unable
to attend court, or for other good reason, the cause may be continued, and the bond shall remain in force, until final judgment,
unless it shall become void, as mentioned in the following section.

Snow. 6. The sureties of the accused may surrender him in
court at any time before final judgment, and thereupon they shall
be discharged: and he shall be committed, until a new bond shall
be given.

S1-:c'r 7. Before proceeding to trial, the complainant must file
a declaration, stating that she had been delivered of a bastard child,
which was begotten by the accused ; the time and place when and
where, it was begotten, with as ‘much precision as the case will
admit; that, being put on the discovery of the truth during the
time of her travail, she accused the respondent of being the father
of the child, and that she had been constant in such accusation.

Seer. 8. When the complainant, having made the said accusation, and been examined on oath as before mentioned, and being
put upon the discovery of the truth, respecting the same accusation
at the time of her travail, shall thereupon accuse the same man
with being the father of the child, of which she is about to be delivered, and shall continue constant in such accusation, and shall prosecute him as the father of such child before such court, the man
shall be held to answer to such complaint, and she shall be a witness in the trial of the cause, unless she would be an incompetent
witness in any other cause, by reason of a conviction of some crime.

Seer. 9. If, on such issue, the jury shall find the respondent
guilty, or if the facts in the declaration filed, shall be admitted by
default or on demurrer, he shall be adjudged, by the court, the
father of such child, and stand charged with the maintenance
thereof, with the assistance of the mother, as the court shall order ;
and shall give a bond with sufficient sureties, and approved by the
court, to the complainant, to perform the said order, and also a
bond with suflicient sureties approved as aforesaid, to the town that
might be chargeable for the maintenance of such child; and he
shall be committed till he shall make and execute such bonds:
which latter bond shall be deposited with the clerk of the court
for the use of such town.

Snow. 10. If, on trial of said cause, the jury shall find the respondent, not guilty, the court shall order him to be discharged;
and the verdict in either case shall be final.

S£:c'r. 11. No woman, whose accusation and examination, on
oath, shall have been taken by a justice of the peace at her request, as aforesaid, shall be allowed to make any settlement with
the father, or give him any discharge, which shall be given in evidence on the trial of any such complaint to bar or affect the same,
if it shall be objected to in writing by the overseers of the poor
of the town, interested in the support of such mother or child.

Snow. 12. When the father of such bastard child shall have
remained ninety days in jail, without being able to comply with the
order of court, he may be liberated, by taking the poor debtor’s
oath, in the same manner, as persons, how or hereafter, may, who
are committed on execution ; provided, he shall give the like notification of his intention to take the benefit of said oath, to be
served on the complainant, if then living, and also on the clerk of
the town, where the child, of which he has been adjudged the
father, has its legal settlement, if in this state; said notice to be
given fifteen days before the day appointed for taking the oath.

Snow. 13. The mother of such child, and said town, may,
after such liberation of such prisoner, recover of him by action of

debt, any sum of money, which ought to have been paid pursuant
to the order qf court.

CHAPTER 1 32.

OF PERSONAL PROPERTY SEIZED, AND LOST GOODS; AND PROCEEDINGS

THEREON.
S£c'r. 1. Seizure of foiifeited personal pro- SECT. 10. Appeal, and proceedings.
perty,by the person entitled there- 11. Decree to be affirmed, if appeal
to. be not prosecuted.
2. To be restored to claimant, on his 12. Depositions may be used.
giving bond. 13. Duty of finder of goods, worth
3. Appraisal thereof. three dollars or more.
4. Inventory and appraisal, if there be 14-, 15. Duty of finder of goods, worth
no claimant. ten dollars or more.
5. Libel in the district court, if value 16. Proceedings, if owner appear in
exceed twenty dollars. one year.
\ 6. Notice of libel, how given. 1'7. If no owner appear, how disposed
'7, 8. Proceedings, and decree tl1ere- of.
on. 18. Penalty, if finder neglect.
9. Libel before a justice, if the value
be less than twenty dollars.

Sscrron 1. When any personal property shall be forfeited for
any offence, and no special mode is prescribed for recovering the
same, any person entitled thereto, in whole or in part, may seize
and keep the same until final judgment, unless they are restored
on the bond, as hereinafter mentioned.

SE01‘. 2. If the person claiming the same for himself or another, shall give bond with suflicient surety or sureties to the party
seizing, to pay the appraised value thereof, when, and if, the same
shall be decreed forfeited, then the same shall be restored to such
owner or claimant.

Seer. 3. The value shall be ascertained by the appraisement
of three disinterested men, mutually chosen by the parties; or if
they cannot agree, by a justice of the peace of the same county.

Snow. 4. If no person claims the property, after it has been so
seized, the party seizing, shall cause an inventory and appraisernent
of the same, to be made by three disinterested persons, under oath,
appointed by a justice of the same county; which value shall be
the rule for deciding, where the libel shall be filed.

Snow. 5. If the property seized shall exceed twenty dollars,
the party seizing shall, within twenty days after seizure, but not
afterwards, file a libel in the office of the clerk of the district court
in the county, where the offence was committed, stating the cause
of seizure and praying for a decree of forfeiture. The clerk shall,
thereupon, make out a notice to all persons to appear at such court
at the time appointed, to shew cause, why such decree should not
be passed.

Seer. 6. Such notice shall be published in some newspaper,
printed in the same county, if there be one, if not, in an adjoining
county, or in the newspaper, published by the printer to the state,
at least fourteen days before the time of trial.

Snow. '7. The court may, where there is a claimant, hear and
determine the cause by a jury, or without if the parties agree ; but,
where there is no claimant, the court shall decree the forfeiture and
disposition of the property, according to law, and a sale and distribution of the proceeds, after deducting all proper charges; and:
may allow costs against the claimant.

Snow. 8. If the libel shall not be supported, or be discontinued, 5
the court shall decree a restoration of the property, with costs.
And if the jury, or the court, shall find the seizure, without probable
cause, reasonable damages also shall be decreed for the complainant.

SECT. 9. When the property seized shall not exceed the value!
of twenty dollars, the libel shall be filed before a justice of thej,
peace of the county, where the offence was committed; and, after‘
notice of the kind, mentioned in the fifth section, has been postedi
at two or more public places in the same county, seven days at
least before the day of trial, such justice shall try and decide the
cause, and make such decree therein, as the law requires.

SECT. 10. Either party may appeal to the next district court:
in the same county, recognizing accordingly as in other cases of j
appeal; which court may decide the same, and decree what law
and justice shall require.

Snow. 11. If the appeal shall not be prosecuted, the court, on?

complaint, may aflirm the decree of the justice, with costs. I

SECT. 12. In such cause, depositions, duly taken, may be used!
before the justice, or the district court. j

SECT. 13. Whoever shall findany money or goods, of the value!
of three dollars, or more, the owner whereof is unknown, shall,.
within ten day next following, give notice thereof in writing to the;
clerk of the town in which they are found, and cause a notification}
thereof to be posted up in some public place in the sa-me town ;i
and, if there be any public crier in such town, shall cause the
same to be cried publicly therein on three several days.

Seer. 14. If the money or goods, so found, be of the value?
of ten dollars or more, the same shall he cried, and notice given:
thereof by posting as aforesaid in two towns adjoining, in addition
to the requirement in the preceding section. '

SECT. 15. Every finder of lost goods, of the value of ten dollars or more, shall also, within two months after finding, and before
using the same to their disadvantage, procure, from the town clerk
or a justice of the peace, a warrant directed to two persons, not
interested, except as inhabitants of the town, to be appointed by
said clerk or justice of the peace, returnable within seven days
from the date, into the town clcrk’s office, to appraise the said
goods under oath.

SECT. 16. If the owner of such lost money or goods appear,
within one year after notice given to said clerk as aforesaid, and
shall give reasonable evidence of his right thereto, to the finder, he
shall have restitution of the same or the value thereof; allowing
and paying all necessary charges, including a reasonable compensation to the finder for his trouble; to be liquidated and adjudged
by some justice of the peace in the county, if the owner and finder
do not agree.

Szczr. 17. If no owner shall appear, within one year as aforesaid, then such money or lost goods shall. remain to the finder, he
paying one half of the value thereof, all necessary charges having
been first deducted, to the treasurer of said town ; and, in case of

the neglect of the finder, then to pay the same on demand, after
converting the same to his own use, the same may be recovered in
an action, to be brought by said treasurer in the name of the town.

Sr-:c'r. 18. If any finder of any lost money or goods, of the
value of three dollars or upwards, shall neglect to give notice
thereof to the town clerk, and cause the same to be cried and
advertised, in time and manner, as provided in the thirteenth and
fourteenth sections of this chapter, he shall forfeit the full value of
such money or goods, one half to the use of the town, and the
other half to him who shall sue for the same; and shall moreover

remain responsible to the owner of such lost money or goods.

 

. CHAPTER 133.

OF DEPOSITIONS, AND MODES OF TAKING THEM; AND OF WITNESSES.
S101‘. 1. In what cases, depositions may be Ss:c'r. 24. Vvitnesses may be compelled to

used.

2. Before whom they may be taken.

3. When a cause is deemed pending,
for the purpose.

4. Reasons, for which they may be
taken and used.

5. Summon to deponent, and citation
to the adverse party.

6. Service of such citation.

7. Who is to be considered attorney
of the adverse party.

8. Notice to one of the adverse party,
sufficient.

9. Time of notice.

10. Verbal notice, by the justice or
notary.

11. Form of citation to adverse party.

12. Form of summons to deponent.

13. Witness may be compelled to give
his deposition.

14. How depositions may be taken, out
of the state.

15. Deponent to be sworn, before examination.

16. Who may write the deposition.

17. Form of caption.

18. Deposition to be delivered in court,
or sealed up.

19. Not to be used, if the reason for
taking it no longer exists.

5).. Objections to competency of s witness, or to questions proposed,
when to be made..

21. When depositions may be used in
a second suit.

22. When depositions may be used,
taken out of the state.‘

13. Commissions to take depositions
out of the stategive depositions in cases of contested elections.

25. Application for taking a deposition

in perpetuam.

26. Notice to persons interested.

27. Deposition, how taken, and certificate thereon.

28. To be recorded.

29. When it may be used in evidence.

30. Such depositions may be taken,
out of the state.

31. Application to the court for a
commission therefor.

32. Notice to persons interested.

33. Court may issue a commission.

34. Deposition to be taken upon interrogatories.

35. Application may be filed in vacation, and notice given.

36. Proceedings, to compel a deponent to appear, to give his deposition. I

37. Punishment, if he refuse to depose.

38. Certain deponents may atiirm.

39. It: a false deposition be given, it is
to be deemed perjury.

40. Witnesses may be summoned into
another state to testify in criminal cases.

41, 42. Mortgages to disclose the
amount due on the mortgage, to
an attaching creditor of the mortgager.

43. May be compelled to give his deposition.

44. Who are competent witnesses.

46. How records of courts of other
states are to be authenticated.

Sm.-1-.46, Printed copies of Mains statutes, Star. 49. Laws of foreign countries, how ,

when proof. proved.

47. Printed copies of statutes of other 50. Fees to be tendered to witnesses.
states, how far evidence. 5!. Penalty for non-attendance.

48. Unwritten law of other states, how 65!, 53. Manner of administering oaths.
proved. 54. Persons convicted of certain

crimes, incompetent witnesses.

Scenes 1. Depositions, taken for any of the causes and in the
manner hereinafter mentioned, may be used in all civil suits or}
causes, petitions for partition of land, libels for divorce, prosecu-7
tions for the maintenance of bastard children, petitions for review,
and in trials before arbitrators, referees and county commissioners.

Snow. 2. Any justice of the peace, and any notary public. may
take depositions, to be used in any pending cause, he not being}
interested in such cause, nor being, nor having been, counsel or
attorney in the same. .

Secs‘. 3. No suit, petition, libel or prosecution shall, for the
purposes of this chapter, be considered as pending, till the writ,
petition, libel or other process shall have been duly served upon thci
respondent, or such notice, as is required by law, or ordered by thel
court, shall have been duly given; and no deposition, taken as,
aforesaid, shall be used in the trial of any such cause, except by‘
consent of parties, unless the notice, hereinafter mentioned, shall
have been duly given to the adverse party.

SE61‘. 4. Depositions to be used in pending actions, may 
taken for either of the following causes, viz : —- 1

First. When the deponent is so aged, infirm or sick, as not to?
be able to attend the court, or at other place of trial ; —- é

Second. When the defendant resides out of, or is absent from “
the state ; —- ‘

Third. When the deponent shall be bound to sea on a voyage,
or is about to go out of the state by sea or land, before the session‘
of the court, where the deposition is to be used, and not expected
to return in season to attend the trial ;-- ‘

Fourth. When the deponent lives more than thirty miles, from
the lace of trial; -— - ‘

' It. When the deponent is confined in prison, and such imprisonment shall be continued, until after trial of the cause.

Sr:c'r. 5. On application of either party to It justice of the,‘
peace, or notary public, for the purpose of procuring the deposition;
of a witness, such justice or notary may issue a summons to the
deponent, to appear before him at a designated place and time to
give his deposition ; and also issue notice to the adverse party, to
be present at such time and place, if he should see fit; or such
notice to the adverse party may be made returnable before any
other  of the peace or notary, who shall be named in such
notice, as the person who is to take the deposition.

Snow. 6. The notification to the adverse party shall be served
on him or his attorney, by reading the same in his presence and
hearing, or by giving to him, or leaving at his last and usual place‘
of abode, an attested copy thereof; and the service may be made
by a sworn officer, or by any other person, and proved by his adidavvit. Snow. 7. No person shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be
considered the attorney of another, unless he has indorsed the
writ, or indorsed his name on the summons left with the defendant,
or appeared for his principal in the cause, or given notice in
writing that he is attorney of such adverse party.

Saar. 8. Where there are several plaintiffs or defendants

notice may be given, by the said justice or notary, to one or more
of them ; and that shall be deemed sufiicient.
, SE01‘. 9. No written notice, as aforesaid, shall be valid, unless
the adverse party he allowed between the service of the notice,
and time appointed for taking the deposition, time for him to travel
,from his usual place of abode to the place of trial, not less than
at the rate of one day for every twenty miles’ travel, exclusive of
Lord’s days.

Seer. 10. Any justice of the peace or notary may give verbal
notice to the adverse party, and that shall be deemed suflicient.

, SI-JCT. 11. The notice to the adverse party, if in the state,
shall be in substance as follows:  
 

 
 

   

“ , ss. To , of , in the county of .
Greeting.
Whereas A. B. of , has requested, that the deposition of C.
D. of , may be taken to be used -in an action of ,
pending between you and the said A. B., and the of ,
in ,-and the day of , at of the clock
in noon, are the time and place appointed, for said deponent to testify what he knows relating to said action ; you are
hereby notified that you may be present, and put such questions,
as you may think fit. Dated this day of , l8—.
, Justice of the Peace.”

Seer. 12. The justice of the peace or notary public shall,

when requested, also issue a summons to the deponent, in substance as follows, viz : —

“ , ss. To C. D. of

, in the county of .
Greeting.
Whereas A. B. of , in the county of , has requested
me to take your deposition, to be used in an action, now pending
between him and E. F. of , in the county of , and
the of , in the town of , and the
day of , at of the clock in the noon, are the
time and place, appointed for taking the same deposition, you are
therefore required in the name of the state of Maine, then and
there to appear to testify what you know, relating to said action.
Dated this —— of in the year
, Justice of the Peace.”
‘which summons may be served, and the service thereof proved, as
described in the case of said notification.
Sr-:c'r. 13. Any witness may be compelled to attend and give
, his deposition, in like manner, and under the same penalties, as he
may be summoned and compelled to attend, as a witness in court,
without regard to the distance of his place of abode from the place
of trial; but not to travel more than thirty miles for the purpose

of giving his deposition ; and such deposition shall not be used in

     

any trial, excepting for the causes mentioned in the fourth section,(
unless the adverse party shall use the witness at such trial. ‘

SECT. 14. When any deposition shall be taken, out of the state,l
and not under a commission, the adverse party or his attorney shall:
be duly notified to attend. ‘I

' Snow. 15. The deponent shall be first sworn to testify the truth,,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, relating to the cause or:
matter for which the deposition is to be taken ; and he shall then?
be examined, first by the party producing him, on verbal or written
interrogatories, and then by the adverse party, and by the justice,
or the parties afterwards, if they see cause.

Snow. 16. The deposition shall be written by the justice or;
notary, or by the deponent or by some disinterested person in the
presence and under the direction of such justice or notary; and
after the same has been carefully read to, or by the deponent, shall
then be subscribed by him.

Snow. 17. The justice or notary shall then make out a certifi-3
cate, and annex the same to the deposition, therein stating thei
following facts ; — 5

First. That the deponent was sworn according to law, and
when ; Second. By whom the deposition was written ; —

Third. If it was written by the deponent or some disinterested
person, he must name him, and that he wrote it in the presence
and under the direction of the justice or notary ; —

Fourth. Whether the adverse party was notified to attend ; —Ftfth. Whether be attended or not ; —

Sixth. The cause in which the deposition is to be used, and
the names of the parties thereto; —

Seventh. The court or tribunal, in which it is to be tried ; —

Eighth. The place and time of trial; —— ‘

Ninth. The cause of taking the deposition.

Snow. 18. The deposition shall be delivered by the justice to
the court or referees, before whom the cause is to be tried, or be
enclosed and scaled up by him, and directed to such court or
referees, and be kept sealed, till opened by their order.

Snow. 19. When a deposition has been so taken, it shall not be
used on trial of the cause, if the adverse party shall then make it
appear, that the cause for taking such deposition no longer exists,
but that the deponent is within thirty miles of. the place of trial
and able to attend the trial in person.

Snow. 20. Objections to the competency of a deponent, or the
propriety of any questions proposed to him, or answers given by
him, may be made when the deposition is produced, in the same
manner, as if the witness were personally examined on the trial;
but, when any deposition is taken on written interrogatories, all
objections to any interrogatory shall be made before it is answered ;
and, if the interrogatory be not withdrawn, the objection shall be
noted thereon ; or otherwise the objection shall not afterwards be
allowed.

Snow. 21 . When a'plaintiff shall become nonsuit, or discontinue
a suit, and shall commence another action for the same cause, and

between the mme parties or their representatives, all depositions.

lawfully taken for the first suit, of the taking of which the adverse
party had due notice, may be used in the second suit ; provided,
they have been duly filed in the court where the first cause was
pending, and have remained on file from the time the first suit was
discontinued, until the commencement of the second.

SIICT. 22. Depositions, taken out of the state, by a justice of
the peace or notary public, or other person lawfully empowered to
take depositions may be admitted or rejected by the court, at their
discretion.

Snow. 23. The justices of the supreme judicial court, and of
the district court, may issue commissions to take depositions, without
the state, to be used in pending suits in the state, on such terms
and conditions as they may from time to time prescribe.

Snow. 24. In case of the contested election of a person returned
as a member of the house of representatives, either party may
summon any witness before a justice to give his deposition, and he
shall be subject to like penalties and liabilities, in case of disobedience, as are mentioned in the thirteenth section of this chapter.

Snow. 25. When any person wishes to perpetuate the testimony
of any witness, he shall make a statement in writing, under oath,
briefly setting forth, in substance, his title, interest or claim in, or
to the subject, to which the desired testimony relates, and the names
of all persons, who are supposed interested therein, and also the
name of each witness proposed to be examined; and shall deliver
the statement to any judge or register of probate, notary public, or
clerk of the supreme judicial court or justice of the peace and
quorum, requesting the person selected to take the deposition of
such witness. Snow. 26. The person, so selected for the purpose, shall cause
notice to be given of the time and place of taking such deposition
to all the persons, named in the statement, as interested; which
may be given and proved in like manner, as in case of taking depositions in pending actions.

Seer. 27. The deponent shall be sworn and examined‘, and
the deposition be written, read and subscribed in the same manner,
as depositions taken to be used in pending actions; and the person- taking such deposition, shall annex to it a certificate, under his
hand, at the time of taking it; and, that it was mken in perpetual
remembrance of the thing; and shall insert therein the name of
the person, at whose request it was taken, and of all those who
were notified to attend and did attend.

Ssc'r. 28. The said statement, deposition and certificate shall,
within ninety days after taking the same, be recorded in the registry of deeds in the county, where the land or any part of it lies, if
the deposition relates to real estate; and if not, then in the county
where the parties or some of them reside.

Snow 29. All depositions taken to perpetuate the testimony of
witnesses, being recorded as mentioned in the preceding section, or
a copy thereof, attested by the register of deeds, may be used in
the trial of any cause, whether pending at the time the deposition
was taken, or commenced afterwards, between the person at whose

request it was taken, and either of the persons named in the state-4
ment, and duly notified, or those claiming under either, concerning
the title, claim or interest, set forth in the statement; subject to the
same objection, as if it had been originally taken for the suit.

Snow. 30. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses,
living out of the state, may be taken in any other state, or in any
foreign country upon a commission to be issued by the supreme
judicial court or district court, in the manner hereinafter provided.

Snow. 31. The person, desirous to procure such depositions,
may apply to either of said courts, and file a statement of the kind
described in the twenty-fifth section of this chapter; and, if the
subject of the deposition relates to real estate in this state, such
statement shall be filed in the county or counties, where the same
lies; and, if not, then in the county, where some of the parties
reside.

, Snow. 32. The court shall order notice to be served on each of
the persons named in said statement, and living in the state, fourteen days before the time appointed for hearing the parties.

Snow. 33. The court, on hearing the parties, or the applicant,
if no adverse party appears, may issue a commission, if they see
cause, for taking such deposition, in like manner as in a cause
pending. .

Snow. 34. The deposition shall be taken upon interrogatories,
filed by the applicant, and cross interrogatories, by any party adversely interested, substantially in the same manner, as when taken
to be used in pending causes. ‘

Snow. 35. Or the person wishing to take the deposition may
file his statement in the clerk’s office in vacation, and cause notice
to be given to the persons named therein as interested, fourteen
days at least before the next term of the court, at which time the
parties may be heard.

Snow. 36. Whenever any judge or register of probate, notary
public, or clerk of the supreme judicial court, or any justice of the
peace and of the quorum, shall have summoned any person to
appear before him, to give his deposition to be used in any cause,
pending in any court, in this or in any other state, or to give his
deposition, to perpetuate the testimony of any witness, and such
summons shall have been served and returned by a sheriff, deputy
sheriff or constable, or in the manner prescribed in the sixth and
twelfth sections of this chapter, and proof of such service is entered
on such summons, and legal fees shall have been tendered to such
witness, a reasonable time before the day appointed for taking his
deposition, and such witness shall refuse to attend, such judge,
register, notary, clerk or justice, may adjourn the time of taking
such deposition to a future hour or day, as may be convenient, and
issue a capias, directed to a proper officer, to apprehend such witness and bring him before such judge, register, notary, clerk or
justice, at the time and place to which such adjournment was ordered. ’ ‘

Sncr. 37. If such witness, being so brought before such judge,
register, notary public, clerk or justice, shall refuse to depose and
answer such questions, as may be propounded to him by either of

the parties or persons interested, under the direction of the person
taking the deposition, he may commit such witness to the prison of
the county, for a contempt, in like manner, as the supreme judicial

court or district court might commit any witness refusing to testify '

in open court.

Seer. 38. Any person, conscientiously scrupulous of taking an
oath, when lawfully required, may make his affirmation under the
pains and penalties of perjury; and the same shall be deemed to
have the same force and effect, as his oath would have, on the
same occasion.

Snow. 39. Any person, wilfully, falsely, and corruptly swearing
or affirming, in giving or making any deposition or affidavit required in this chapter, shall incur the same penalties, as if the testimony had been given in open court, and wilful perjury committed
in giving the same.

Snow. 40. When a clerk of a judicial court, in any other state,
shall certify, officially in writing, that, there is pending in such
court a criminal cause, and that a person in this state is supposed to
be a material witness, in the cause for the state, or the accused,
any justice of the peace, when applied to, shall, on the back of
such certificate, issue a summons, requiring such witness to appear
and testify at such court, and, if any such person, so summoned,
and having tendered to him a sum equal to twenty cents per mile,
from the abode of the witness to the court, and two dollars at the
end of every day for his attendance, and having no reasonable
excuse, shall neglect so to appear and testify as aforesaid, he shall
forfeit and pay three hundred dollars to him, who shall sue for the
same in this state, in an action of debt; but no such witness shall
be bound to go more than five hundred miles for such purpose.

Seer. 41. Whenever a creditor has, or shall have attached, on
Lmense process, the right in equity which the defendant has, or shall
have, of redeeming any real estate mortgaged, and shall have recovlered judgment and execution against such debtor, and is desirous
of having such right sold on execution according to law, he may
demand of the mortgagee, or person claiming under him, a disclosure, in writing under his hand, of the sum then due and secured *

by such mortgage, together with the condition of such mortgage.

SECT. 42. It shall be the duty of such mortgagee, or person
claiming under him, within twenty-four hours of such demand, to
furnish such statement to the creditor, and be liable for all damages occasioned by a neglect so to furnish the same.

Snow. 43. The creditor may, after the expiration of said
twenty-four hours, if such disclosure is not furnished as aforesaid,
apply to such judge, register, notary, clerk or justice of the peace
and quorum of the county, in which such mortgagee, or person
claiming under him, resides; and such magistrate shall, thereupon,
proceed to take the deposition of such person, in relation to the
facts required to be given to him by the statement aforesaid, for
perpetuating the testimony of such person, and the knowledge of
the facts testified ; and such judge, register, clerk, notary or justice,
may make use of all such power, to compel a disclosure of the
facts demanded in such statement, as is mentioned in the thirtyseventh section of this chapter.

Snow. 44. No person shall be deemed an incompetent witness,(
by reason of having committed any crime, unless he has been con-,'
victed thereof in this state; but the conviction of any person, in;
any court without the state, of a crime, of which, if he had been ‘
convicted in this state, it would render him an incompetent witness, may be given in evidence to affect his credibility.

Seer. 45. The records and proceedings of any court of another:
state, or of the United States, shall be admissible in evidence in .
all cases in this state, when authenticated by the attestation of the:
clerk, prothonotary or other officer, having charge of the record of
such court, with the seal of such court annexed.

Snow. 46. The printed copies of all statutes, acts and resolves!

‘of this state, whether of a public or private nature, which shall be:

published under the authority of the government, shall be admitted!‘
as suflicient evidence thereof, in all courts, and on all occasions
whatever.

Seer. 47. The printed copies of statutes of any other of the:
United States, or of the territories thereof, if purporting to be.
published under authority of the respective governments, or if 1
commonly admitted and read as evidence in their courts, shall be
admitted in all our courts of law, and on all occasions, as prima
facie evidence of such laws.

Snow. 48. The unwritten law of any other of the United‘
States or of the territories thereof, may be proved as facts by parol}
evidence, and the books of reports of cases, adjudged in their
courts, may also be admitted in evidence of such law.

Seer. '49. The existence and tenor or effect of all foreign‘:
laws may be proved, as facts, by parol evidence ; but, if it shall:
appear, that the law in question is contained in a written statute
or code, the court may, in their discretion, reject any evidence of
such law, that is not accompanied by a copy thereof.

SECT. 50. No person shall be obliged to attend as a witness,
unless the fees are paid or tendered to him, which are allowed by
law for one day’s attendance, and travel to and from the place of
attendance.

Snow. 51. Any person obliged to attend, who shall fail so to
attend, without reasonable cause, shall be liable to payment of all
damages thereby occasioned to the aggrieved party ; and such failure shall be considered a contempt of court; and may be punished
as such, by a fine not exceeding twenty dollars.

Snow. 52. The usual mode of administering oaths now in practice, with the ceremony of holding up the hand, shall be observed ;
unless the court or magistrate shall be satisfied, that such person has
any peculiar mode of swearing, which he may deem more solemn.

Snow. 53. Every person, believing in any other than the christian religion, may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies
of his religion.

Snow. 54. No person, convicted by any court of law in this
state, of any infamous crime, and sentenced according to law upon
any such conviction, shall be admitted as a competent witness in

the trial of any civil or criminal cause, unless his competency shall
have been restored by a pardon.

- CHAPTER 134.

OF COMMISSIONERS TO TAKlf‘. ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF DEEDS OR OTHER
CONTRACTS, AND DEPOSITIONS IN OTHER STATES.

Sect. 1. Appointment. Power to authen- S1c'r.3. May administer oaths, Ind tabs

ticate deeds. depositions.
2. Legal effect of their official acts 4. Qualification. Seal.
and certificates.

SECTION 1. The governor shall have power to appoint one or
more commissioners in any other of the United States, who shall
continue in oflice during the pleasure of the governor; and shall
have authority to take the acknowledgment and proof of the execution’ of any deed. or other conveyance or lease of any lands lying
in this state; and. of any contract, letter of attorney or any other
writing, under seal or not, to be used or recorded in this state.

Snow. 2. Such acknowledgment or proof, so taken according

to the laws of this state, and certified by any such commissioner,

under his seal of office, annexed to, or indorsed on such instrument, shall have the same force and effect, as if the same had
been made before a judge or justice of the peace, or other officer,
authorized to: perform such acts in this state.

Seer. 3. Every commissioner appointed as before mentioned,
shall have power to administer an. oath, which may be lawfully
required in this state, to any person willing to take it; and to take
and duly certify all depositions to be used in any of the courts of
this state, in conformity to the laws thereof, either on interrogatories proposed under commission from a court of this state, or 
consent of parties, or on legal notice given to. the opposite party ;
and all such acts shall be as valid, as if done and certified according to law by a magistrate in this state..

Seer. 4. Every such commissioner, before performing any duty,
or exercising any power in virtue of his appointment, shall take
and subscribe an oath or afiirmation before a judge or clerk of one
of the superior courts of the state in which such commissioner shall
reside, well and faithfully to execute and perform all the duties of
such commissioner, under and by virtue of the laws of Maine;
which oath and a description of his seal of oflice, shall be filed in
the office of the secretary of this state.

7

CHAPTER 135.

OF THE SELECTION AND SERVICE OF J URORS.
Seer. 1. Board for preparing lists of jurors. ‘Saar. 5. Number required to be kept in the

Towns may make alterations. jury box.

2. Lists, bow prepared. 6. Names may be withdrawn in cer3. Persons exempted from serving. tain cases.

4. Tickets of names to be kept in jury 7. Commissioners to divide the counbox; liable to be drawn once in ty into jury districts.

three yean. 8. How divided, and numbered.

Slot. 9. Copy of division to be furnished S201‘. 21. Penalty for neglect of selectmen,

to the clerk. or clerk. .
10, 11. Rule, by which the clerk shall 22. Penalty for neglect of constable.
issue venires. - .923. Penalty for neglect of town.
12. Grand jurors in the district courtto 24-. Penalty for neglect of clerk of
serve one year. court, or sheriff.
13. When venires shall issue for such. 25, 26. Penalty for neglect of juror to
14. Distribution of veniree. Notice of attend.
meetings to draw jurors. 2'7. Penalty for fraud by town clerk or
l5, l6. Mode of drawing jurors. selectmen.
17. Date of draft to be indorsed on 98, 29. Recovery, and appropriation of
tickets. fines.
I8. Constable to notify jurors. 30. When no traverse jurors are to be
19. Return of venire. summoned to the supreme judi£0. lndorsement to be transferred, if cial court.

ticket be renewed.

SECTION 1. The selectmen of each town, together with the P
treasurer and clerk of each town, shall constitute a board for pre-‘l
paring lists of jurors to be laid before such town for their approval ; f
and the said town shall have power, by a majority of the legal
voters in legal town meeting assembled, to make alterations in such
lists, by striking out such names therefrom, as they may think proper
to erase ; but shall not be allowed to insert any other names therein.

Snow. 2. Such board shall, once, at least, in every three years;
prepare a list of such persons, under the age of seventy years, in?
such town, as they shall judge best qualified to serve as jurors;
being persons of good moral character, and qualified as ‘the constitution directs, to vote in the choice of representatives.

Snow. 3. The following persons shall be exempted from serving
as jurors, and their names shall not be placed on the said lists,‘
namely ; the governor, counsellors, judges and clerks of the common‘
law courts, secretary and treasurer of the state, all officers of the
United States, judges and registers of probate, registers of deeds,
settled ministers of the gospel, officers of any colleges, preceptors
of incorporated academies, physicians and. surgeons regularly authorized, cashiers of incorporated banks, sheriffs and their deputies,
coroners, counsellors and attorneys at law, county commissioners,
constables and constant ferrymen.

Snow. 4. The said board, after the list of jurors shall have
been approved by the town, as mentioned in the first section,
having written their names upon tickets, shall place them in the
jury box; and the same shall be held and kept by the town clerk ;
and the persons, whose names shall be contained in the box, shall
be liable to be drawn and serve on any jury, at any court for which
they may be drawn, once in every three years, except as provided
in the sixteenth section, and not oftener.

Secs‘. 5. It shall be the duty of each town to provide and have
constantly kept in the box, ready to be drawn when required,
the names of a number of jurors, not less than one, and not more
than two for every hundred persons in such town, according to the
last census, taken next before preparing the box.

Snow. 6. If any person, whose name shall be in the box, shall
be convicted of any scandalous crime, or be guilty of any gross

immorality, his name shall be withdrawn from the box by the board.

able.

Snow. 7. The county commissioners in each county, within one
year after every new census, and as much oftener, as a considerable change of population shall render it useful and expedient,
shall divide such county into not less than four, nor more than
twelve districts. '

Sacr. 8. Each district shall contain so many adjoining towns,
as shall make the number of inhabitants in each division as nearly
equal, according to the last census for the time being, as may be,
without dividing a town ; and such districts shall be designated
numerically. ~

SECT. 9. The commissioners shall cause a copy of such division to be delivered to the clerk of the courts in such county, as
soon as may be after the division is made.

SECT. 10. The clerk of the courts, in such county, shall issue
venires in due form, directed to the constables of as many towns in
one jury district, and for as many jurors as shall be, as near as
may be, in proportion to the number of jurors, sent for in the other
districts in the county, to serve at the same court; always collecting the grand and traverse jurors, so far as shall be practical and
convenient, as uniformly from all parts of the county, as the situation of towns, number of their inhabitants, and a practical rotation
and equalization of the service of jurors will permit. ‘

Snow. 11. No more than two grand jurors and two traverse
jurors shall be taken from the same town, to serve at the samecourt; unless from necessity, some extraordinary occasion, or to
equalize their services upon the principles before mentioned.

81:01‘. 12. The grand jurors, who shall be returned to serve at
the district court, shall serve at every term of said court, throughout the year.

Ssc'r. 13. Venires for such jurors shall be issued, forty days
at least, before the second Monday of September annually.

Sscr. 14. The sheriff of each county, as soon as he receives
venires for jurors, shall immediately send them to the constables of
the respective towns, to which they are directed ; and on receipt of
such venires, each constable shall notify the freeholders and other
inhabitants of the town, qualified to vote in the election of representatives, in the manner annual town meetings are notified, and
especially the selectmen and town clerk, unless a different mode
has been agreed upon at a legal town meeting, which any town is
hereby authorized to do, in respect to town meetings for the drawing of jurors only, to assemble and be present at the draft and
selection of the jurors called for; which meeting shall be six days
before the sitting of the court, to which the venire is made returnSr-:c'r. 15. At such meeting, the town clerk, or, in his absence,
one of the selectmen, shall carry into the meeting the jury box,
containing the names of the persons approved as aforesaid; the
box shall be unlocked in the meeting, and the tickets mixed by the
major part of the selectmen present; and one of the selectmen
shall draw out as many tickets, as there shall be jurors required ;
and the persons, whose names are thus drawn, shall be returned as
jurors, unless from sickness, absence beyond sea, without the limits,

oriin di6'erent parts of the state, they shall be considered by the(
town, as unable to attend the court for which they are drafted, or '
had served on a jury within three years from that day.

Snow. 16. In either of the above cases, or in case a person is!
drawn, who may have been appointed to an ofiice, which exempts‘
him from serving as a juror, others shall be drawn in their stead;
but any person, being thus excused, or who shall be returned, and
shall not attend court, or shall, when appearing there, be excused,
shall not be excused on another draft, should it happen within the
term of three years, notwithstanding the minute made on» his ticket;
and whenever it shall happen, that all those persons, whose names
are in the box of any town, shall have served on the jury within
three years, or for reasons. above mentioned shall not be liable to
serve, the selectmen shall draw out of the box such number of men
as may be required,-provided they have not served as jurors within.
eighteen months; and, in such case, the clerk shall certify on. the
venire that all persons, whose names are contained in the jury box,
have served upon the jury within three years, or that they are not
liable to be returned.

Snow. 17. When a juror has been drawn, and not excused by;
the town, the selectmen, who drew his ticket, shall indorse thereon a
the date of the draft, and return the same into the box.

Sect. 1.8. The constable shall notify the persons, thus drawn
to serve as jurors, four days at least before the sitting of the court,
at which they are to attend, by reading the venire and indorsement
thereon to them, or leaving, at their usual place of abode, a written
notification of their having been drawn, and also of the time and
place of the sitting of the court, where they are to attend.

Snow. 19. He shall make a seasonable return of the venire
with his doings thereon.

Saar. 20. Whenever there is a renewal or exchange of any of
the tickets in the box, for others of the same persons, the selectmen shall transfer from the back of the old tickets, to the new
ones, the minutes of such drafts, as had been made within the
three preceding years.

Sn:c'r. 21. If the selectmen or town clerk of any town shall
neglect to perform the duties, required of them or him in this
chapter, so that the jurors called for from the town to which they
belong shall not be returned, such selectmen and town clerk shall
be fined not less than ten, nor more than fifty dollars, each.

Snow. 22. Any constable shall be lined a sum not exceeding
twenty dollars, for neglecting the performance of the duties required of him in this chapter.

Snow. 23. Any town, which shall neglect to perform the duties
required of it, shall be fined a sum not exceeding one hundred
dollars.

SECT. 24. If the clerk of the court, or sheriff of the county,
shall neglect to perform the duties required of them respectively,
so as to prevent a compliance with any of the provisions of this
chapter, he shall be lined a sum not exceeding fifty dollars.

Snow. 25. Any juror, not being an inhabitant of Portland, who
after being notified and returned, shall unnecessarily fail in his

_attendance, shall be fined as for contempt, not exceeding twenty
I dollars.

Snow. 26. Any juror, who is an inhabitant of Portland, who
shall so fail of attendance at court, shall be fined not exceeding
forty dollars, as for contempt; the fines in this and the preceding
section, to be divided among the jurors, who shall attend and serve.

Snow. 27. Any town clerk or selectman, who shall be guilty of
.any fraud in practising on the box previous to the draft, or in the
drawing a juror, or in returning the name of a juror into the box,
which had been fairly drawn, and drawing another in his stead, or
in any other mode, shall be fined not exceeding two hundred dollars.

SE01‘. 28. All fines, imposed by the twenty-first, twenty-second,
twenty-third and twenty-fourth sections, shall be for the use of the
county, in which the offender dwelt, at the time of the neglect;
and be recovered by indictment, information or action by the treasurer of the county, to be commenced within twelve months after
commission of the offence.

Sscr. 29. All tines imposed by the twenty-seventh section,
shall be recovered on indictment, one moiety to the use of the
state, and the other to the prosecutor thereof.

Sr-:c'r. 30. In each county, in which two terms of the supreme
_ judicial court are annually holden, no traverse jurors shall be summoned to attend at the full or law term, unless the court shall
otherwise order.

F

CHAPTER 136.

I
01-‘ THE PREVENTION OF FRAUDS AND PERJURIES IN CONTRACTS, AND
IN ACTIONS FOUNDED THEREON.

S301‘. 1. Cases, in which promises must be Snca‘. 6. Proceedings thereon.

in writing. 7. What decree shall be made.

2. Consideration need not be express- 8. Conveyance to be good.
ed therein. 9, 10. Enforcement of such decree.

3. Representation of another’: ability ll. Provision, in case of the death of
or character, to be in writing. the obligee before conveyance.

4. What contracts for sale of goods, 12. Administrator of the contractor
must be in writing. my petition for authority to make

5. When specific performance of a the conveyance.
contract may be enforced by bill
in equity.

SECTION 1. No action, shall be brought and maintained in any
of the following cases ;—

First. To charge an executor or administrator, upon any special promise to answer damages out of his own estate ; —

Secondly. To charge any person, upon any special promise to
answer for the debt, default or misdoings of another ;—

Thirdly. To charge any person, upon an agreement made in
consideration of marriage ; —

Fourthly. Upon any contract for the sale of lands, tenements
or hereditaments, or of any interest in or concerning them ; — \ Fifthly. Upon any agreement, that is not to be performedc
within one year from the making thereof: —- ;
Unless the promise, contract or agreement, upon which such ;
action shall be brought, or some memorandum or note thereof, shall .
be in writing, and be signed by the party to be charged therewith,
or by some person thereunto lawfully authorized.

Snow. 2. The consideration of any such promise, contract or‘
agreement need not be set forth, or expressed, in the writing signed 3
by the party to be charged therewith, but may be proved by any
other legal-evidence. . .

SE01‘. 3. No action shall bebrought and maintained, to charge?
any person upon, or by reason of, any representation or assurance,é
made concerning the character, conduct, credit, ability, trade orf
dealings of any other person, unless such representation or assurance i
shall be made in writing, and signed by the party to be charged
thereby, or by some person, thereunto by him lawfully authorized.

Snow. 4. No contract for the sale of any goods, wares or merchandise, for the price of thirty dollars or more, shall be allowed
to, be good, unless the purchaser shall accept part of the goods, so
sold, and actually receive the same, or give something in earnest to
bind the bargain, or in part payment, or some note or memorandum,
in writing, of the said bargain be made and signed by the party to
be charged by such contract, or by his agent, thereunto by him
lawfully authorized. ,

Snow. 5. When any person, who is bound by a contract in
writing to convey any real estate, shall die before making the conveyance, the other party may have a bill in equity in the supreme
judicial court, to enforce a specific performance of the contract by
the heirs, devisees, or by the executor or administrator of the
deceased party, such bill to be filed within one year after the grant
of administration. '

Snow. 6. The court shall hear and decide every such case,
according .to the proceedings in chancery, and shall make such
decree therein, as justice and equity may require.

Seer. 7. If it shall appear that the plaintiff is entitled to have
a deed of conveyance, the court may authorize and require the
executor or administrator of the deceased party to convey the estate
in like manner as the deceased person might and ought to have
done, if living; and, if his heirs or devisees, or any of them, are
within the state, and competent to act, the court may direct them
or any of them, instead of the executor or administrator, to convey the estate in the manner before mentioned, or to join with the
executor or administrator in such conveyance.

Sr-:c'r. 8.‘ Every conveyance, made in pursuance of such decree, shall be effectual to pass the estate contracted for, as fully as
if made by the contractor himself.

Snow. 9. If the defendant in such suit shall neglect or refuse to
make a conveyance according to the decree, the court may enter
judgment, that the plaintiff shall recover judgment for possession
of the land contracted for, to hold according to the terms of the
intended conveyance, and may issue a writ of seizin thereupon, in
theiform used in a real action; and the plaintiff, by force of said

A
I
4

writ, having obtained possession of the premises, shall hold the
same in like manner, as if conveyed in pursuance of the decree.

Sscr. 10. The preceding section shall not prevent the court
from enforcing their decree, by any other proper process, according to chancery proceedings.

Snow. 11. If the person, to whom the conveyance was to be
made, shall die before such suit is brought, or before the conveyance is completed, any person, who would be entitled to the estate
under him as heir, devisee or otherwise, in case the conveyance
had been made according to the contract, may commence such
suit, or prosecute it, if commenced ; and the conveyance shall
thereupon be so made, as to vest the estate in the same persons,
who would have been so entitled to it.

Seer. 12. If the party, to whom any such conveyance was to
be made, or those claiming under him, shall not commence a suit,
as before provided, and if the heirs of the deceased party are under
age, or otherwise incompetent to convey the lands contracted for,
the executor or administrator of the deceased may file a bill in
equity in the supreme judicial court, setting forth the contract and
the circumstances of the case, whereupon the court may, by their
decree, authorize and require such executor or administrator to convey the estate, in the manner the deceased should have done; and
such a conveyance shall be deemed a performance of the contract
on the part of the deceased, and sufficient to entitle his heirs, executors or administrators, to demand a performance thereof on his

part.

 

' CHAPTER 137.

OF RECOGNIZANCES FOR DEBTS.
Sl:c'r. 1. Who may enter into recognizance. Szcr. 9. Administrator of conusee may see

2. Form thereof. out execution.
3. Justice may deliver it to the cred- 10. If conusor die, scire facias may
itor after recording it. issue against his administrator.
4-. May be filed and recorded with 11. After three years, writ of scire
clerk of the courts. facias or action of debt will lie.
5. Clerk may issue execution thereon. 12. Consequence, if one of several
6. Otiicers to serve such executions. conusors or conusees die.
7. Clerk may renew them. 13. Remedy, if execution be wrong8. VVhen not to run against the lands fully issued.

or body of the debtor.

SECTION 1. Any person, capable of binding himself by a common bond, may enter into a recognizance for the payment of a
debt, as hereinafter mentioned; and may thereby subject his person,
or his goods and estate, to be taken in execution for such debt.

Snow. 2. Such recognizance may be taken before any justice
of the peace, and shall be in substance, as follows: —

“ I, A. B., of ————, in the county of ——---—, do owe unto
C. D., of — , in the county of —-——-, the sum of

to be paid to the said C. D. on the day of

; and, if

   

I shall fail of the payment of said debt, at the time aforesaid, I.
will and grant, that the said debt shall be levied of my goods and
chattels, lands and tenements, and in want thereof upon my body.

“ In testimony whereof, I have hereto set my hand and seal, this
day of , in the year .”

Snow. 3. After such recognizance shall have been signed and‘
sealed, and acknowledged before said justice, and his certificate:
thereof signed by him, the same shall then be delivered to such:
creditor or conusee ; and the justice shall keep a record of all recognizances, taken by him.

Seer. 4. Should the debt not be paid at the time appointed,
and the conusee be desirous to have a writ of execution on the
recognizance, he may deliver the same to the clerk of the district‘
court of the county, in which the same was taken ; and such clerk
shall record the same in a book, kept for that purpose, and place
the original on the files of the court.

Sect. 5. The clerk of the court may thereupon, without any
order of court, at any time within three years after such debt became due, issue an execution on such recognizance in the name of
the state, varying the established form of execution, so far only, as
necessary, and adding to the principal sum due, interest thereon,
from the time it became due, and also any interest, secured by the
recognizance before its maturity.

Sacr. 6. All proper oflicers shall be bound to execute the
same, and shall be answerable for their neglect, in like manner, as
in case of execution issued on a judgment.

Snow. 7. The clerk may renew such execution from time to
time, as executions on judgments may be renewed; and all such
executions may be directed to the proper oflicers of any county,
and be there executed.

Snow. 8. But, if the sum, originally due on such recognizance,
did not exceed the sum of twenty dollars, then the clerk shall not
issue the execution against the lands of the conusor; and, if the
sum be less than ten dollars, the clerk shall not issue execution
against the body.

Snow. 9. If the conusee die before the debt shall be fully paid,
his executor or administrator may sue out execution in the same
manner, as the conusee might, had he been living, without suing
out a scire facias, and the execution shall be varied accordingly.

Snow. 10. If the conusor die before the debt shall be fully
paid, no execution shall issue of course; but the conusee may
have a writ of scire facias, or an action of debt, to recover the
same as in case of a judgment.

Snow. 11. After the expiration of said three years, from the
time set for payment in the recognizance, the conusee may have a
scire facias, or action of debt, against the party liable, as in case
of a judgment.

Snow. 12. When there are several conusors or conusees, and
one or more of them shall die before the debt is paid, the rights
of the surviving conusees, and the obligations of the surviving
oonusors, shall be the same, as in case of a judgment.

Snow. 13. Any person, injured , by the suing out or service of

     

any such execution, shall have his remedy, by writ of audits. querela, or otherwise, as in case the execution had been sued out upon

a judgment.

  

CHAPTER 138.

OF REFERENCE OF DISPUTES, BY CONSENT, BEFORE A J UHPICE OF
' THE PEACE.

Snow. 1. What controversies may be sub- Snow. 9. Proceedings of court (thereon.
mitted. Recommitnient.

2. Manner and form of submission. 10. All the referees must bear, but 3
3. Submission of all demands. majority may decide.

4.

5. No revocation, but by consent. 12. Report may be made to any court,
6. Parties may agree upon the time of by consent.

13. Judgment may be reversed, on writ
of error, or exceptions.

14. A referee may take acknowledg.
ment or administer oaths.

reporting.
Report, how returned into court.
Power of referees.

9°?‘

Submission of a specific demand. ‘ 11. Costs. Compensation of referees.
I
l
5
I

SECTION 1. All controversies, which may be the subject of a
personal action, may be submitted to one or more referees, in the
manner provided in this chapter.

Seer. 2. The parties may appear, personally or by attorney,
before any justice of the peace, and there sign and acknowledge
an agreement, in substance, as follows : —

“ Know all men by these presents, that
in the county of ————, and of ———-—, in the county
of ————, have agreed to submit the demand, made by the said

, against the said -———, which is hereunto annexed,” (and
“ all other demands between the parties,” as the case may be,) “ to
the determination of ————-; the report of whom, (or the major
part of whom) being made within one year from this day, to the
district court for the said county of —---—-, the judgment thereon
shall be final. And, if either of the parties shall neglect to appear
before the referees, after proper notice given to them, of the time
and place appointed by the referees for hearing the parties, the
referees may proceed in his absence.

‘* Dated this —— day of ———, in the year ———.”

The foregoing agreement, having been subscribed by the parties,
shall be acknowledged by them or their attorneys, as their voluntany act, before the said justice-, or any other justice.

Snow. 3. If all demands between the parties are submitted to
the decision of the referees, no specific demand need be annexed
to the agreement.

Snow. 4. If a specific demand only is submitted, the same
shall be annexed to the agreement, and signed by the party making it; and such demands shall be stated in such a manner as to
be readily understood, and be as certain, in substance, as the case
will admit.

of —-——,

Snow. 5. Neither party shall have power to revoke the submission, without the consent of the other.

Snow. 6. When the parties are so disposed, they may agree
upon the time when the report shall be made; and, in this particular, vary from the form, stated in the second section, without
being confined to one year.

SE01‘. 7. The report of the referees shall be delivered by one
of the referees to the court, to which it is to be returned, according to the agreement; or it shall be sealed up and transmitted to
such court, and remain sealed till opened by the clerk.

Snow. 8. The referees, agreed upon according to the provisions of this chapter. shall have the same authority, as those appointed by a rule of .said court.

Snow. 9. The court, to which the report shall be made, may
accept, reject or recommit the same for further consideration ; and
the referees shall give notice to the parties of the time and place
of a new hearing; and, when the report is accepted, judgment
shall be entered thereon, and execution be issued, as in cases of
submission by rule of court.

Seer. 10. All the referees must meet and hear the parties, but
a majority may make the report, which shall be as valid, as though
signed by all of them; provided, that it appear on the .face of the;
return, or by the certificate of the dissenting referee, that all of

’ them attended and heard the parties.

SECT. 11. The referees may allow such costs as they may‘
judge reasonable, or none to either party, unless some special pro-]
vision be made in the submission upon the subject; but the court
may reduce the compensation of the referees, if it should. appear
reasonable so to do.

Snow. 12. The report may be made to any court held within}
the time limited in the submission, provided, that the parties or their .
attorneys shall sign an agreement to that effect, naming the court,_;
which agreement shall be annexed by the referees to their report.

SECT. 13. Either party may bringa writ of error to reverse-‘
the said judgment, or file exceptions to any decision of the district:
court, accepting or rejecting a report, and carry. the same to the;
supreme judicial court, as is provided in sections, eighteen, nine-2
teen and twenty, in chapter, ninety-seven; and, on a hearing of 9
the cause, the court shall give such judgment as the district court,‘
ought to have rendered.

S1-:c'r. 14. Any one of the referees, being a justice of the peace, I
may take the acknowledgment of the parties to the submission ;:

and any referee may swear witnesses in the cause. f

CHAPTER 139.

OF TIMBER AND CORD WOOD, AND HOW IT MAY BE DISPOSED OF, IN
CERTAIN SPECIFIED CASES.

S.I:c'r. 1. On application of the owners of Star. 2. Commissioners to be appointed

certain interests in woodland, the therefor, and to give bond.
supreme judicial court, after no- 3. Proceeds, how invested. Approtice and hearing, may grant leave priation of income.

to sell the wood. 4; Court to appoint trustees of such

proceeds, who shall give bond.

SECTION 1. Any person, seized of a freehold estate, or of a

.remainder or reversion, in fee simple or fee tail, in a lot or tract of

woodland, or timber land, on which the trees are of an age and
growth, lit to be cut, may apply to the supreme judicial court in

any county, for leave to fell and sell such trees, and invest the

proceeds of the sale for the use of the persons interested in such

woodland; and such court, after due notice, given to all interested

therein, and a hearing of the parties, if any appear, may appoint
one or more persons to examine the land, and make a report of
their examination to the court; and, thereupon, the court, if they
think proper, may license and order, on such terms and condition,
as they shall impose, the whole or a part of such trees to be felled
and sold, and the proceeds of the sale to be brought into court,

subject to its further orders.
Sr:c'r. 2. The court shall appoint one or more commissioners,

who shall superintend the felling of said trees, and the sale of
them, and account to the court for the proceeds; and, who shall
also give bond to the clerk of the court, or such other person as
they shall appoint, for the faithful performance of the trust.

Ssc'r. 3. The court may cause the net proceeds of the sale,
after deducting necessary expenses, to be invested in other real
estate in this state or in public stocks at their discretion, to be held
to the same uses, and subject to the same limitation, as the land;
and the income or profits thereof to be paid to the persons, entitled
to the income and profits of the land, or apportioned among the
several persons interested in the estate, as the court shall deem

just and equitable.
Sect. 4. The court may appoint one or more trustees to take

and hold such estate or stocks for the said uses; who shall give
bond, with sufficient sureties, to said clerk, or other person as
aforesaid, for the faithful discharge of their duty; and they shall
be removable by said court at pleasure.

 

CHAPTER 140.
or mums coapus.

Snow. 3. Application, how made, by persons Ssc'r. 24. How authenticated. ‘

not entitled, of right. 25. Manner of keeping the party, be- .
4. Where to be made returnable. fore judgment.
5. Form of application. , 26. Penalty, for neglect of an othcer
6. When the writ shall not issue. to give a copy of his precept for
7. Proceedings, if excessive bail be detaining a prisoner.
demanded. 27. Punishment, if an otlicer neglect
8. If the otiicer refuse a copy of the to serve a writ of habeas corpus.
precept, the writ shall issue forth- 28. If attachment issue against a sherwith. id‘, how served.
9. Form of writ, in cases mentioned 29. Proceedings, in such case, for’ rein the second section. lease of the person, for whose
10. Time of service and return. Ten- benefit the writ issued.
der of fees. 30. Person discharged, on habeas corll. Otiicer to bring the person re- pus, nottobe arrested again, exstrained, when he makes return. cept in certain cases.
12. Proceedings, if the person be sick, 31. Conveyance to prison of persons
. and cannot be brought. ordered to be committed. Penl3. Examination of the causes of re- alty, for eluding the service of a
straint. writ of habeas corpus.
14». Persons interested to be notified, 32. Penalties, no bar to actions for
before discharge. damages.
15, 16, 17. Proceedings, and decision 33. In certain cases, a third person
upon the application. may appear for the party detained.
18. Form of writ, if the restraint be 34. Supreme court, or any justice
not by an otiicer. thereof‘, may allow bail at discre19. By whom it may be issued. tion. Exception.
20. Where served. 35. Admission of a person to bail,
21. Person restraining, how designat- when committed for not finding
ed, if unknown. sureties.
22. Person detained, how designated, 36. Habeas corpus may issue, to bring
if unknown. in a prisoner, as a witness.
23. Form of return, in the cases men- 37. Minors, enlisting into the army or
tioned in the 10th and 18th sec- navy, entitled to the benefits of
tions. this chapter.

SECTION 1. Every person, deprived of his personal liberty by‘
the act of another, except in the cases mentioned in the following:
section, shall be entitled to, and have a right to prosecute a writ of I
habeas corpus, according to the provisions of this chapter, to obtain relief, if unlawfully confined.

Snow. 2. The following persons shall not, of right, be entitled
to demand and prosecute such writ : — 4

First. Persons committed to and confined in prison for treason‘
or felony, or suspicion thereof, or as accessories, before the fact, to;
a felony, when the same is plainly and specially expressed in the;
warrant of commitment ;—

Second. Persons convicted, or in execution upon legal process,
criminal or civil ;—

- Third. Persons committed on mesne process in any civil action,
on which they are liable to be arrested and imprisoned.

Snow. 3. Every application from a person, described in the
preceding section, for such writ, shall be made to the supreme judicial court, if in session in the county where the applicant is confined ; and, if not, then to any justice of such court; and, when
issued by the court, it shall be made returnable thereto ; but if, at
the time of such return, the court shall have been adjourned without day, or for more than seven days, it may be returned before
any justice of said court, and be heard and determined by him.

, Snow. 4. When issued by a justice of said court, it may be
' made returnable before said court, or before himself or any other
justice of the court.

S1-:c'r. 5. The application shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, and under oath. He shall state therein the place, where
he is imprisoned or confined, and by whom he is deprived of his
liberty ; and shall produce, to the said court or justice, a copy of
the precept by virtue of which he is restrained of his liberty, under
the attestation of the officer, holding the precept.

Seer. 6. If, on inspection of the copy of such precept, it shall
appear to such court or justice, that such applicant is lawfully
imprisoned, or restrained of his liberty by virtue thereof, a writ of
habeas corpus shall not be granted.

" Seer. 7. If, by the copy of such precept, it shall appear that
the applicant is committed and imprisoned on mesne process for
want of bail, and, if such court or justice thereof shall be of opinion, that excessive ‘bail is demanded, such court or justice shall
decide what bail is reasonable, and he shall, on giving such bail to
the plaintiff, be discharged.

_ Seer. 8. If the prison keeper or other officer having the custody of the applicant, shall refuse or unreasonably delay to deliver
to such applicant an attested copy of the precept, by which he
restrains him, on demand thereof being made, such court, or 
tice thereof, on proof of such demand and refusal, shall forthwith
isstre the writ of habeas corpus, as prayed for.

I Snow. 9. When such writ is issued by the supreme judicial
"court, on the application of any person described in the second
section of this chapter, it shall be substantially as follows; that is
to say : “STATE OF MAINE.

C , ss. To A. B. of ;

[L. s.] Greeting.

We command you, that the body of C. D., in our prison, at

, under your custody,” (or “ by you imprisoned and restrained of his liberty,” as the case may be), “ as it is said, together
with the day and cause of his taking and detaining, by whatsoever
name the said C. D. shall be called or charged, you have before
our supreme judicial court, holden at , in and for our county
of , immediately after the receipt of this writ, to do and receive what our said court shall then and there consider concerning
him in this behalf: and have you there this writ. ‘

Witness , at , this day of
the year .

,in

, clerk.”

The like form shall be used by any justice of said court, changing what should be changed, when such writ shall be awarded by
him.

Snow. 10. When such writ shall be offered to the officer to
whom it is directed, he shall receive the same; and, on payment
or tender of such sum as said court, or justice thereof, shall direct,
shall make due return thereof, within three days after receiving it,
if the place of return be within twenty ‘miles of imprisonment;
and, if it is more than twenty miles, and less than one hundred

miles, he shall return it within seven days; and, if more than one?
hundred miles, he shall return it within fourteen days; provided,
that if the writ was issued against such ofiicer, on his refusal or
neglect to deliver on demand to the applicant a copy of the precept, by which he restrained such applicant of his liberty, then the
oflicer shall be bound to obey the writ without payment or tender
of expenses, as above mentioned in this section.

Sacr. 11. The person making the return shall, at the same:
time, bring the body of the party, if in his custody or power, or.
under his restraint, according to the command of the writ, unless:
prevented by the sickness or infirmity of the party. i

Snow. 12. When, by reason of sickness or infirmity of the
party, he cannot, without danger, be brought to the place appoint-I
ed in the writ, that fact shall be stated in the return, and, if proved}
to the satisfaction of the court or justice thereof to 'be true, any
justice of the court may proceed to the place where the party is
confined, and there make his examination, or may adjourn the
same to another time, or make such other order in the case, as law
and justice may require.

Snow. 13. On the return of the writ, the said court, or justice
thereof, shall, without delay, proceed to examine the causes of ;
imprisonment or restraint; but may adjourn such examination,
from time to time, as circumstances may require.

Sr-:c'r. 14. When it appears, that the party is detained on any
process, under which any other person has an interest in continuing
such imprisonment or restraint, the party shall not be discharged,‘
until notice has been given to such other person, or his attorney, if
within the state, or within thirty miles of the place of examination,
to appear and object if he see cause; and, if imprisoned on any
criminal accusation, he shall not be discharged, until sufiicient
notice shall have been given to the attorney general or other attorney for the state, that he may appear and object, if he should
think fit.

Snow. 15. The party, imprisoned or restrained, may deny any
of the facts, stated in the return or statement, and may allege any
other facts, that are material ; and the court, or justice thereof, may, *
in a summary way, examine the cause of imprisonment or restraint,
and hear evidence, produced by any person interested, both in support of such imprisonment or restraint, and against it; and thereupon may dispose of the party, as law and justice shall require.

Snow. 16. If no legal cause be shown for the imprisonment or
restraint of the party, the court or justice thereof shall discharge
him; but this section shall not be construed, as applying to the case
of a person committed on mesne process, where excessive bail is
demanded, as mentioned in the seventh section of this chapter.

St-:c'r. 17. If the party is imprisoned and detained for an_y
offence, which is bailable, he shall be admitted to bail, if sufiicient
bail be offered; and, if not, he shall be remanded with an order
of the said court or justice thereof, expressing the sum in which he
shall be held to bail, and the court at which he shall be bound to
appear; and any justice of the peace may, at any time before the
sitting of the court, hail the party pursuant to such order.

" Smear. 18. In cases. of imprisonment or restraint of personal
liberty by any person, not a sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner, constable or jailer, or marshal, deputy marshal or other oflicer of the

courts of the United States, the writ shall be in the following form,

viz:—
“STATE OF MAINE.
S I To the sheriffs of our several counties, and their respec( ea  tive deputies, Greeting.

We command you, that the body of C. D. of , imprisoned and restrained of his liberty. as it is said, by A. B. of ,
you take and have before our supreme judicial court, holden at
, immediately after receipt of this writ, to do and receive
what our court shall then and there consider concerning him in this
behalf; and summon the said A. B. then and there to appear before
our said court, to show cause of the taking and detaining of the
said C. D., and have you there this writ with your doings thereon.
Witness our at , this day of , in the
year . , Clerk.”
Saar. 19. Such writ may be issued by the supreme judicial
court, or district court, when sitting in any county, in which jthe
applicant for the writ shall be restrained, or by any justice of either
of said courts, and the above form of the writ shall be changed so
far as is necessary, when issued by the district court, or any justice
of either of said courts.

Snow. 20. The writ may be served in any county of the state.

Snow. 21. The person, having custody of the prisoner, may be
designated by the name of his office, if he have any, or by his own
name; or, if both are unknown or uncertain, he may be described
by an assumed name; and any one who is served with the writ,
shall be deemed the person thereby intended. .

SE01‘. 22. The person detained, and to be produced, shall be
designated by his name, if known; and, if unknown or uncertain,
he maybe described in any other way, so as to make known, who
is intended.

Snow. 23. In cases, provided for in the tenth section of this
chapter, the person who makes the return and, in the cases provided for in the eighteenth section thereof, the person, in whose
custody the prisoner shall be found, shall state in writing to the
court, or justice thereof, before whom the process is to be returned,
plainly and unequivocally: —

First. Whether he has, or has not, the party in his custody or
power, or under restraint ; —

Second. If he has, he shall state, at large, the authority and
the true and whole cause of such imprisonment or restraint, upon
which the party is detained ; -—and,

Third. If he has had the party in his custody or power, or
under his restraint, and has transferred such custody or restraint to
another, he shall state particularly to whom, at what time, for what
cause, and by what authority, such transfer was made.

Snow. 24. Such return or statement shall be signed by the person making it, and sworn to, by him, unless he is a sworn public
officer, and makes his return in his oflicial capacity.

 
   

SECT. ‘.25. Until judgment be given by the court or justice?
thereof, the party may he hailed to appear from day to day, or be
remanded, or committed to the sheriff of the county, or placed inj
such ettstorly, as the e.:1.~<e may |'eq11i:'e. l_

Sizer‘. :26. If any ollieer .<h:1ll refuse or ne;_r_lect, for four hours,‘
to deliver at true uml aitlestetl copy of the warrant or precept or
pr(mr.~_=s, hy wliielt he detztins :m_\_' prisoner, to ill}_\' person, who shall
demand such copy. and i.('.'II(l(,‘l' the fees therefor, he shall forfeit and?
pay to sueh pri.~'_:.ot'ier, two hundred dollar::.

b't;«_‘.'r. 27. If any person or oliieer, to whom such Writ of habeas
corpus shall be directed, shall re|'u:~:e to receive the same, or shall,
neglect to obey and e.\‘eeute the stune as retjuirecl in this chapter,
and no suflicient eattse sltall be shown for such refusal or neglect,
he shall forfeit to the ag‘_;;-;t'it:\’etl party, four htuulred dollars; and
the court or judj_;'e, hefore whom the writ was returnable, shall proeeed fortlm-'itl| l_ry 1tlii.l(:lllI'l(?l]t, [LS for It eoutempt, to compel obedience to the writ, and to punish the person guilty of the contempt.

Sizer. :28. If such an zttlaeluneut he isst_1etl against a sheriff or
his deputy, it may be rlireetetl to a eoroner or any-other person,
designatetl therein, who shall liare power to execute the same;
and, if the sheriff or his deputy should he committed on such process, he may be committed to the jail in any county, other than
his own.

Snow. 29. Upon the refusal of the person, to whom the writ is
directed, to obey and execute the same, the court or judge may
also issue a precept to any oflicer, or other person therein named,
commanding him to bring forth the person, for whose benefit the
writ was issued, before such court or judge; and the prisoner shall
thereupon be discharged, bailed or remanded in like manner, as if
he had been brought in upon the writ of habeas corpus.

Sr:c'r. 30. No person, who has been enlarged by a habeas corpus writ, shall again be imprisoned or restrained of his liberty for
the same cause, unlesss he shall be indicted therefor, or convicted
thereof, or committed for want of bail, or unless, after a discharge
for defect of proof or some material defect in the commitment, in
a criminal case, he shall be arrested on sufficient proof, and committed by legal process for the same offence.

Sac’:-. 31. Any person, ordered to be committed to prison on
any criminal charge, shall be carried to such prison, as soon as may
be, and shall not be delivered from one officer to another, except
for easy and speedy conveyance; nor removed, without his consent, from one county to another, unless by habeas corpus; and, if
any one, who has in his custody, or under his power, any person
entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, whether issued or not, shall
transfer such person to the custody of . another, or change his place
of confinement, with intent to elude the service of such writ, he
shall forfeit and pay to the party aggrieved, the sum of four hundred dollars.

Sscr. 32. No penalty, established by this chapter, shall bar
any action at common law for damages, for false imprisonment.

Sac-r. 33. When any person shall be unlawfully carried out of
the state, or imprisoned in a secret place, any other person may

_ appear for him in any action, brought therefor in his name, who
-rshall stipulate for the payment of costs, as the court shall order.
Snow. 34. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to restrain
the supreme judicial court in term time, or any justice thereof in
; vacation, from bailing any person whatever, or for whatever offence
’ committed, at their discretion, whenever the circumstances of the
Icase may require it ; excepting persons committed by the governor
and council, senate or house of representatives, and for the causes

mentioned in the constitution.

a Snow. 35. When any person is confined in jail for a bailable
offence, or for not finding sureties on a recognizance, any justice of

- the district court, or two justices of the peace and of the quorum,
on application made to them, may inquire into the case, and admit
any such person to bail, and exercise the same power concurrently, which any one of the justices of the supreme judicial court may
or can do ; and may issue a writ of habeas corpus, and cause such
person to be brought before them, for the purpose expressed in this
section, and may take such recognizance.

Snow. 36. -Any court may issue a writ of habeas corpus, when
necessary, to bring before them any prisoner for trial in any cause
pending in any such court, or to testify as a witness, in a cause
therein pending, when his personal attendance may be deemed
necessary for the attainment of justice.

Ssc'r. 37. If any minor, under the age of twenty-one years,

'shall be enlisted within this state into the army or navy of the
United States, without the consent in writing of his parent, guardian or master, he shall be entitled to all the benefits of this chapter,
on the application of such minor or of his parent, guardian or
master, to the district court.

[For§ 33, See Stat. 1841, act of amendritent, § 24, post.)

 

CHAPTER 141.
or THE wnrr or AUDITA QUERELA.

Star. 1. Form of the writ. S1;c'r.4-. Special damages.
2. In what court and county to be 5. Pleadings. Filing exceptions.
sued out. 6. Pnoceedings, ifplaintid‘ be in prison.
3. Proceedings in court. 7. Effect of a surrender to jail.

- SECTION 1. The writ of audits querela may be sued out in the
form of a writ of attachment or summons; and shall be sealed,
signed, tested and indorsed, as other writs.

Snow. 2. When brought to prevent, set aside or annul proceedings, had on a judgment or writ of execution, it shall be sued out
of the same court, in which judgment was rendered; but, in all
other cases, it shall be sued in the county and court having jurisdiction of the cause, according to the provisions of law, as to personal actions.

- Snow. 3. If the defendant, after having been duly served with
process, shall not appear, he shall be defaulted ; and, if he appear,
a trial shall be. had, as in common civil actions.

Snow. 4. The complainant, in his writ, may also set forth and
declare for any special damages, he may have suffered, by means
of the service of such execution; and, on proof of such damages, he
shall have judgment and execution for the same, in like manner,
as he could recover them in a subsequent suit, and instead of such
mode.

Scar. 5. The defendant may plead the general issue, of not
guilty, with or without a brief statement, as the case may require,
or plead any special matter in bar; and exceptions may be alleged
to the rulings, instructions and opinion of the court, as prescribed
in case of civil actions, unless by law an appeal is allowable.

Srzcr. 6. When the plaintiff is in prison, by virtue of such
execution, the court, before which such action is brought, may
admit him to bail, to be approved by the court; and the bond shall
be conditioned, that, if final judgment be rendered for -the defendant, the complainant shall, within thirty days after such judgment,
surrender himself to the jail keeper to be detained on the execution, or, within that time, satisfy the same execution, and also such
§ral judgment, as shall be rendered for the respondent.

‘ Sr-:c'r. 7. If the plaintiff shall surrender himself to jail, he shall
be in lawful custody on such execution, and there detained until
discharged according to law.

 

CHAPTER 142.

OF THE WRIT FOR REPLEVYING A PERSON.

Stew. 1. Who is entitled to the writ. Szcr. 10. He may give bail.

2. From what court to issue. Service. '1]. Discharge, and costs, if not guilty

3. Form of the writ. of eloigning.

4. Bond to be given. 12. If guilty, to be imprisoned.

5. Oflicer responsible for the sureties. ' 13. Form of Writs of reprisal.

-6. What judgment, if action be main- 14. Discharge of defendant, on proof
mined, of plaintiff's death.

7. What judgment, if not maintained. 15, 16. Prooeedings,if'plaintili' bepro8. What judgnent, if defendant be duced.
entitled to custody of the plaintiff. )7. Appeal, and proceedings.

9. If defendant have eloigned the 18. A third person may sue out the
plaintilf, he may be arrested. writ.

Scenes 1. If any person is imprisoned, restrained of his liberty, or held in duress, unless by force of a lawful writ, warrant or
other process, civil or criminal, issued bya court of competent
authority, he shall be entitled as of right, to the writ for replevying
a person, and to be thereby delivered in the man-ner herein provided.

Snow. 2. The writ shall be issued from, and returnable to the
district court in the county in which the plaintiff is confined; and
shall be directed to the sheriff, or coroner, of such county, as the
case may require, and shall be served as soon as may be, and
fourteen days before the return day.

Snow. 3. The writ shall be in the form heretofore established,

except that the proviso shall be as follows : — “ provided that the
said A. B.” (the plaintiff,) “shall, before his deliverance, give bond
to the defendant, in such sum as you shall judge reasonable, and with
two sufficient sureties, with condition to appear at said court to prosecute his replevin against the defendant, and to have his body there
to be redelivered, if thereto ordered by the court, and to pay all
such damages and costs, as may be awarded against him; and, if
the plaintiff is delivered by you, at a day before the sitting of said
court, you are to summon the defendant to appear at said court.”

Sacr. 4. No person shall so be delivered by such writ, until a
bond shall be given, as prescribed in the preceding section; and
the bond shall be returned to the court with the writ. .

S1-:c'r. 5. The officer, serving the writ, shall be answerable for
the sufficiency of the sureties in like manner, as he is answerable
for taking insufficient bail in a civil action. ‘ »

Sect. 6. If the plaintiff shall maintain his action, by proving
the alleged unlawful imprisonment or restraint, he shall be discharged, and recover his costs.

Snow. 7. If he shall not maintain his action, the defendant
shall recover his costs and such damages as the jury may assess, or
the court, if the parties consent, or in case of a default.

Snc'r. 8. If it shall appear, that the defendant is bail for the

fplaintiff, or that, as his child, ward, apprentice or otherwise, he is
entitled to the custody of the plaintiff, he shall have judgment for
a redelivery of the body of the plaintiff, to be held or disposed of,
according to law. a
Sscr. 9. If it shall appear, that the defendant has eloigned the
,, plaintiff ’s body, so that the oflicer cannot deliver him, the court
shall, on motion in behalf of the plaintiff, issue a writ of reprisal
to take the body of the defendant, and him safely keep, so that

he may be at the then next term of the court, to traverse the return of thesaid writ for the replevying the plaintiff.

Sacr. 10. The defendant may be enlarged, by giving bail in
such sum as the officer shallrequire, with two sufficient sureties,
for his appearance at court.

I ' Snca-. 11. At such court the defendant may traverse the return
,_ on the writ for replevying the plaintiff; and, if it shall appear,

that he is not guilty of eloigning the plaintiff, he shall be discharged and recover his costs.

St-:c'r. 12. If such return shall not be traversed, or if, upon
such traverse, it shall appear, that the defendant is guilty of eloigning the plaintiff, an alias writ of reprisal shall issue; and, thereupon,
he shall be committed to the common jail, there to remain, irrepleviable, until he shall produce the body of theplaintiff, or prove his
death.

Snow. 13. The aforesaid writs shall be substantially in the form
heretofore established, and used for the same in this state.

Snow. 14. The defendant, after having been committed on an

_ alias writ of reprisal, may suggest the death of the plaintiff; and

the court shall empannel a jury to try the fact, at the expense of

the defendant; and, if the death is proved, the defendant shall be
discharged.

Snow. 15. If the defendant shall, at any time after the return 1
of elongation, produce the body of the plaintiff in court, the court
shall deliver the plaintiff from imprisonment, upon his giving to;
the defendant such bond as is before directed to be taken by the‘
officer, when the plaintiff is delivered by him; and, for want of the
bond, he shall stand committed to abide the judgment on the
writ for replevying the plaintiff.

Snow. 16. When the body of the plaintiff is produced, as
mentioned in the last section, the suit shall be tried in the manner
before mentioned.

Snow. 17. Either party may appeal to the supreme judicial
court, in like manner as in common civil actions, and in case of
an appeal from any order or judgment upon the writ of reprisal,
the whole case in the original writ for replevying the plaintiff, shall
be carried up to the supreme judicial court, and shall there be disposed of, as it should have been in the district court.

Snow. 18. The writ of replevin may be sued out by any person in behalf of the plaintiff, without any express power for that

purpose, he giving bond, as before mentioned, when sued by the
plaintiff himself.

CHAPTER 143.

OF VVRITS OF ERROR AND CERTIORARI.

Snc1'.l. How wan‘: or ERROR may issue. Szcr. 8. Effect thereof‘, in other criminal

2. Execution not to stay, unless bond cases.
be given. 9. Provision for keeping plaintiff in
3. Bond to be approved. error, on stay of proceedings.
4-. Filing of bond, and effect thereof. 10. Limitation of writs of error.
5. Costs to prevailing party. Dama- 11. wnrrs or cnnrrorunr, how isges and costs,if' defendant pre- sued.
vail. ‘ 12. Costs, on applications, or on final
6. Proceedings, on writs of error. . decisions.
7. Writs of error in capital cases. 13. Limitation of applications for certiorari.

SECTION 1. Writs of error,’ in civil cases, may issue of course
out of the supreme judicial court, in vacation as well as term time;
and shall be returnable to the same court.

Snow. 2. No writ of error shall operate to stay or supersede
execution in any civil action, unless the plaintiff in error, or some
person in his behalf, shall give bond to the defendant with one or
more sureties, with condition that the plaintiff shall prosecute his

~ suit to effect, and shall pay and satisfy such judgment as shall be
rendered thereon.

Snow. 3. The su-fliciency of the sureties, and the sum for
which the bond shall be given, shall be determined by any judge

of the supreme judicial court, or by the clerk from whose office the
writ of error is issued, according to such general rules, as the
court may, from time to time, establish.

_ SE01‘. 4. When such bond shall be given, it shall be filed in
'the clerk’s oflice, for the use of the defendant; which shall be
deemed a delivery of the bond ; and no execution shall be thereafter issued on the judgment, complained of, during the pendcncy
of the writ of error; and, if execution shall have been already

issued, the clerk shall make out and sign a certificate of the issuing '

of the writ of error, and the filing of the bond; and, after notice
of such certificate to the oflicer holding the execution, all further
proceedings thereon shall be stayed.

SECT. 5. . The prevailing party on a writ of error, in any civil
action, shall, in all cases, be entitled to his costs against the adverse
-party; and, if the judgment is aflirmed, the court shall adjudge to
the defendant in error, damages for his delay, not less than at the
rate of six per cent., nor exceeding twelve per cent. a year, on the
amount recovered by the former judgment; and, in such case, they
may also, in their discretion, award double costs to the defendant.

Sr-:c'r. 6. The proceedings upon writs of error, as to the assignment of errors, the scire facias to the defendant, and the pleadings and judgments, and all other matters not herein provided for,
shall be according to the course of common law, as modified by
the practice and usage in this state, and such general rules as may
be made by the supreme judicial court.

Snow. 7. No writ of error, upon a judgment for any capital
offence, shall issue, unless allowed by one of the justices of the
supreme judicial court, after notice given to the attorney general or
other attorney for the state.

SE01-. 8. Upon all other judgments in criminal cases, writs of
error shall issue of course; but they shall not stay or delay the
execution of the sentence or judgment, unless they shall be allowed
by a justice of the supreme judicial court, with an express order
thereon, for a stay of all proceedings on such judgment or sentence.

SE01‘. 9. When a stay of proceedings shall be ordered, as provided in the preceding section, the judge may, at the same time,
make such order as the case may require, for the custody of the
plaintiff in error, or for letting him to bail; or the party may, upon
a writ of habeas corpus, procure his enlargement upon giving bail,
if entitled thereto.

Snow. 10. N o judgment in any case shall be reversed or avoided
for any error or defect, unless the writ of error thereon be sued out
within six years next after the entering up of judgment, or within
six years next after this chapter shall become a law; but, if any
person entitled to such writ, at the time such title accrued to him,
shall be within the age of twenty-one years, a married woman,
insane, imprisoned, or out of the limits of the United States, then
such person, his heirs, executors or administrators may sue out the
same, within five years after the removal of the disability aforesaid.

Seer. 11. All writs of certiorari, to correct errors in proceedings, that are not according to the course of the common law, shall
be issued from the supreme judicial court, according to the practice
heretofore established, and subject to such further regulations, as
shall be made from time [to time] by the supreme judicial court.

23 Maine, 9, 511.

Snow. 12. Upon every application for a certiorari, and also on.
the final adjudication, when a certiorari is granted, the court may,‘
in their discretion, award costs against any party, who shall appear
and undertake to maintain or object to the proceeding in question.

S1-:c'r. 13. No such application for a writ of certiorari shall be
sustained, unless made therefor within six years next after the proceeding which is complained of, or within six years after this chapter shall take effect; provided, that the saving clause in the tenth
section of this chapter shall apply to this section also.

 

CHAPTER 144.
or THE ACTION or DOWER.

SE01‘. 1. Right of a widow to sue for dower. SE01‘. 7. Separate action for damages against

2. Previous demand. Time of bring- the person, on whom the demand
ing the action. was made.

3. Demand upon a corporation, and 8. Writ of seizin, and proceedings in
time for commencing the action. setting off dower.

4. Pleadings in such action. 9. Assignment of rents and profits in

5. Damages for detaining dower. certain cases.

6. Suit tobeagainst tenant of the free- I0. Recovery of dower by a woman
hold. Liable for damages only divorced.

whilst in possession.

SECTION 1. When a woman is entitled to dower, and it is not
set out to her, by the heir, or tenant of the freehold, to her satis-j
faction, according to the intendment of the law, nor assigned to
her by the judge of probate, she may recover the same, by a writ
of dower, in the manner hereinafter proscribed.

Snow. 2. She must demand her dower of the person, who is
‘seized of the freehold at the time of making the demand, if he be
in this state, otherwise, of the tenant in possession, and shall not
commence her action to recover the same before the expiration of
one month after making such demand, nor after the expiration of
one year from the same time; but this shall not preclude her making a new demand and commencing an action thereon, if an action
should not be brought within one year after the first demand.

Snow. 3. When any corporation is the tenant of the freehold,
she must demand her dower in writing of any oliicer of such corporation, on whom by law, a writ in a civil action against the same
may be served; but she shall not commence her action against
such corporation before the expiration of sixty days, nor after the
expiration of one year from such demand; but a second demand
may be made, if necessary, as provided in the preceding section.

Snczr. 4. In an action of dower, the defendant may plead in
abatement, that he is not tenant of the freehold, but not in bar of
the action.

Snow. 5. If the demandant recovers judgment for her dower,
she shall also in the same action recover her damages for the detention thereof.

Sacr. 6. The action shall be brought against the person, who

is tenant of the freehold at the time the suit is commenced; but,
if he is not the same person against whom demand is made, he
shall be liable for damages only for the time, during which he held
the possession.

Sr~:c'r. 7. In the case mentioned in the preceding section, if the
demandant shall recover her dower and damages in the writ of
dower, she may afterwards maintain an action on the case, against
the prior tenant of the freehold, of whom her demand was made,
for the rents and profits for the time, during which he held the
premises, after the making of the demand.

Snow. 8. When judgment for her dower is rendered in favor of
the demandant, a writ of seizin shall be issued, requiring the proper
oflicer to cause her dower to be assigned and set out to her by three
disinterested persons, to be appointed by the plaintiff, defendant
and ofiicer, as in case of the levy of an execution on land ; they
shall be duly sworn, to set out the same equally and impartially,
and as conveniently as may be, and according to their best skill and
judgment; and the officer shall make return of the writ and doings
thereon to the court, with the assignment of dower indorsed thereon, or annexed thereto; which being accepted, shall be conclusive.

SE01‘. 9. When the estate, out of which the dower is to be
assigned, consists of a mill or other tenement, which cannot be
divided without damage to the whole, the dower may be assigned
of the rents and profits thereof, to be had and received by the
demandant, as tenant in common with the other owners of the
estate.

Snow. 10. Any woman, who is divorced from her husband, for
his fault, may recover her dower in the manner before provided,

against her former husband, or whoever shall be the tenant of the
freehold.

 
 

CHAPTER 145.
or REAL ACTIONS.

SE01‘. 1. All writs abolished, but writs of Snow. 13. Demandant may recover, upon

entry. ' proof‘ of title.
2. Saving, in favor of‘ infants, and cer- 14. Recovery of damages by demandtain others. . ant.
3. Recovery of‘ estates by writ of en- 15, 16, 17. Estimation of rents and
try. Mode of service. profits.
4, 5. Allegations in the declaration. I 18. Recovery of damages against oth6. Proof of seizin. ~ er persons.
'7. Right of‘ entry must be proved. l 19. ReaJ_actions not to abate by death
8. Such right of entry not defeated or intermarriage of‘ a party. Proby descent or discontinuance. , ceedings in such case.
9, 10. Who may be considered a dis-_ 20. Appointment of guardians for miseizor. Disclaimer.  nors ; amendments.
11. Proof‘, to entitle the demandant to 21. Writs of possession to conform to
recover, on trial. the case. Estoppel.
I2. Joinder of demandants. 22. Allowance of costs, and stay of

execution, in such case.

Sncw. "313. B+_-ttu.-.r1m:~I1t.-.: ullow(=d_. after -s1x5.“~i:f_'l

Lil. I'll"-.~.-u.-i".[~t‘.n11 of tlu: premises tiltelII'.IlI£lI”tl.

25. Tenant may consent, that demandant may recover a specified part.
Effect thereof.

9265. Tenant may have betterments upon demurrer or default.

27. Request by tenant, for appraisal
of improvements, and, by demandant, for appraisal of the land.

28. Demandant may elect to abandon.

29, 30,31. Mode of collecting the
value of the land, in uch case.

32. Execution may be extended on
the land.

33. Remedy, if tenant be evicted.

34. Consequence, if demandant do
not abandon.

35. Restriction of the right to betterrnents.

36. Tenant not to commit waste.

37. Agreement of parties, as to value.

Vr=:ir.~§.' [1H:.=~'~I":'~.'.~«'in1l. I
l

3:13, 'I'm1.‘1nt_ may propose a mum, at

‘-\lili'll tliv. \'.Llllt' 1n:i_v be estimatml. l“.!li.-rt: ll|Cl‘l"l‘Il'. ;-‘.'_1_ F-'¢_~1-mi-1' m" «-...~:r.«-, in r.-nrtuin cases.

40. Jurors disqualitied, if interested in ‘
similar questions.

41. Execution may issue after a year.

42. What constitutes a posession and
improvement.

43. Proceedings, if either party die
before the cause is disposed of

44. How writ of possession shall issue
in such case.

45. Either party may have a view, by
the jury.

46. Proceedings, if a life estate be demanded.

47. Remedy, if tenant be ousted, after
six years possession.

48. How available.

49. Pending actions not a§'ected by
this chapter.

50. Cases, in which defendant may
impeach the plaintili"s title deeds.

SECTION 1. All writs of right and of formedon, and all writs!
of entry, except that which is provided for in this chapter, shall beg
abolished from and after the first day of April, in the year, one
thousand, eight hundred and forty-three, except as is provided in
the following sections. Seer. 2.‘ If any person, who, on the said first day of April,5
shall be entitled to maintain any of the said actions which are to be:
abolished on that day, shall be within the age of twenty-one‘ years,
a married woman, insane, imprisoned or without the limits of the
United States, the ac'tion may be brought, at any time within five
years, after the disability shall cease, or after the death of the person disabled; provided, that no such action shall be maintained,
after it would have been barred by the statutes of limitation in
force, at, and immediately before the time, when this chapter shall
take effect.

SE01‘. 3. Any estate of freehold, whether in fee simple, fee taili
or for life, may be recovered by a writ of entry ; and such writ,1
and also the writ in an action of dower, shall be served, not only‘
in the usual manner by attachmentand summons, or by copy of the
writ, upon the defendant, but, if the defendant be not tenant in pos-7
session, by a delivery, by the officer, to the tenant, or by leaving at
his last and usual place of abode, an attested copy of the writ; and,
if the defendant be not an inhabitant of this state, the service on
the tenant shall be sufficient notice to the defendant, or the court
may order such further notice, as they may deem proper.

Snow. 4. The demandant shall declare on his own seizin, within
twenty years then last past, without naming any particular day,
and shall allege a disseizin by the tenant; but need not aver a
taking of the profits. ‘

Snow. 5 He shall set forth Che estate he claims in the premises,
whether in fee simple, fee tail or for life; and, if for the latter,

then whether for his own life or the life of another; but shali not
be required in any case to state in the writ, the origin of his title,
or the deduction of it to himself ; but, on the application of the tenant, the court may direct the demandant to file in the case an informal statement of the title on which he relies, and the origin of it.

Snow. 6. The demandant shall not be required to prove an
actual entry under his title, but proof, that he is entitled to such an
estate in the premises, as he claims, as heir, devisee, purchaser, or
otherwise, and also that he has a right of entry therein, shall be
deemed sufficient proof of the seizin, alleged in the declaration.

Snow. 7. No such action shall be maintained, unless, at the
time of commencing the action, the demandant had such right of
entry into the premises.

Snow. 8. No descent, or discontinuance of any kind, or however occasioned, which may hereafter occur, shall take away or
defeat any right of entry for the recovery of real estate.

Snow. 9. Every person alleged to be in possession of the
demanded premises in such writ of entry, claiming any freehold
therein may be considered as a disseizor, for the purpose of trying
the right, whatever may be the manner of his original entry on the
premises; but, by a brief statement under the general issue, the
_defendant may show that he was not in possession of the premises
demanded, when the action was commenced, and disclaim any right,
title, or interest therein; and proof of such fact shall defeat the
action; and, if he was in possession of, or claiming only a part of
the demanded premises, when the action was commenced, he shall
describe such part in a statement, signed by him or his attorney,
and tiled in the case, and may disclaim the residue as aforesaid;
and, if, on trial, the facts contained in such statement shall be
proved to betrue, the demandant shall recover judgment for no
more than the part, so described therein.

Snow. 10. In the person in possession have actually ousted the
demandant, or withheld the possession of the premises, he may, at
the election of the demandant, be considered a disseizor for the
purpose of trying the right, though he should claim therein an
estate less than freehold.

Snow. 11. If the trial upon such writ of entry on the general

‘issue, if the demandant shall prove, that he is entitled to such

estate in the premises as he has alleged, and had a right of entry
into the same on the day when the action was commenced, he
shall recover the premises, unless the tenant in possession shall
prove a better title in himself.

Snow. .12. Persons claiming, as tenants in common. joint tenants or coparceners, trill} all join, or any two or more of them may
join, in a- suit for recovery of lands; or any one may sue alone for
his own particular share.

SE01‘. 13. The demandant may, in all cases, recover any specific part of the premises, or any undivided portion thereof, to
which he shall prove a title, though such part or portion may be
less than is demanded.

Snow. 14. When a demandant recovers judgment in a writ of

' entry he shall also be entitled to recover, in the same action, damages against the tenant for the rents and profits of the premises
from the time when the demandant’s title accrued, subject to the
limitations hereinafter contained; and he shall also recover damages for any destruction or waste of the buildings or other property,
for which the tenant is by law answerable.

Sam‘. 15. The rents and profits, for which the tenant shall be
liable, shall be the clear annual value of the premises for the time,
during which he was in possession thereof, after deducting all lawful taxes and assessments on the premises, that shall have been
paid by the tenant, and all the necessary and ordinary expenses of
cultivating the land, or collecting the rents, profits or income of
the premises.

Seer. 16. In estimating the rents and profits, the value of the
use by the tenant of any improvements made by himself, or those
under whom he claims, shall not be computed nor allowed to the
demandant.

Snow. 17. The tenant shall never be liable for the rents and
profits, for any longer time than six years, nor for any waste or
other damage committed before that time, unless the rents and
profits are allowed by way of set-off to his claim for improvements,
as hereinafter provided.

Saar. 18. Nothing, contained in this chapter, shall prevent
the demandant from maintaining an action for mesne profits, or for
damage done to the premises, against any person, except the tenant in a writ of entry, who may have had possession of the premises, or who may be otherwise liable to such action. '

Sac-r. 19. No action, wherein the possession of land is, or may
be, demanded, shall, at any stage of its progress, after having been
entered in court, he abated by the death or intermarriage of either
party thereto; but the court, wherein the same may be pending,
shall proceed to try and determine such action, after such notice,
as the court may order, shall have been duly served upon the legal
representatives of any party deceased, and all others interested in
his estate, as heirs, or upon the husband of any party intermarried,
either personally, or -by publication in some newspaper.

Snow. 20. If, in such cases, any heir of a deceased party is a
minor, the court shall order notice to the guardian, and shall have
power to appoint a guardian ad litem, if necessary, and the court
shall also direct all necessary amendments to be made in the forms
of proceeding.

Snow. 21. Where judgment shall be for the demaachnt ipegy
such case, the court may order one or more writs of possession to

issue, as may be necessary; and where dgmeigt shall be
against the representative or heirs of a sed party, a writ of
pmsion may be issued against all s  have been notilied according to the provisions of the nineteenth and twentieth
sections, whether they have appeared and defended said suit or
not; and "such judgment shall be conclusive against all, who have
appeared and defended said suit, or who have been notified to

appear as aforesaid.
Sr-:c’r. 22. In all such cases, full costs shall be allowed to the

 
  

prevailing party, and the court may order one or more executions

to be issued therefor, as law and justice may require, either against
the goods and estate of a deceased party in the hands of his executor or administrator, or otherwise, according to the legal rights
and liabilities of the parties, and may further order any such stay
of execution, as the situation of the estate may require.

Snow. 23. VVhen the demanded premises have been- in the
actual possession of the tenant, or those under whom he claims, for
six successive years or more, before commencement of the action,
such tenant shall be allowed a compensation for the value of any
buildings and improvements on the premises, made by him or those
under whom he claims, to be ascertained and adjusted in the manner hereinafter provided. ,

Sr-:c'r. 24. In such action, the premises demanded shall be so
defined and described in, the declaration, that the defendant may
know, with reasonable certainty, what lands and tenements are
intended ; otherwise, the court, before which the action is pending,
may direct a nonsuit. And, if the tenant or the person, under
whom he claims, has been in possession of a tract of land, lying in
one body, _for six years or more before the commencement of the
action, and only a part of such tract is demanded, and the tenant
alleges, that the demandant has as good title to recover the whole
tract, as he has to recover the tract demanded, the tenant may
request the jury to ascertain, and, by their verdict, to decide that
fact; and, if they find, that the demandant has as good a title to
demand the whole tract, as the part demanded, they shall proceed
no further; but, on such verdict, the court shall enter judgment,
that the writ abate, unless the declaration shall be so amended as
to include the whole tract; which amendment the court may
allow, without costs.

Snow. 25. If the tenant shall consent that the demandant may
. recover a specified part of the demanded premises, and enter notice
thereof on record, in open court, then, by consent of the demandant, judgment may be rendered in favor of him for such part, and
for the defendants for the residue; and, if the demandant shall not
consent to such offer, and shall not recover for any other part of
the premises, he shall not recover any costs; but the defendant
shall recover costs from the time of such rejected offer.

Snow. 26. The tenant shall enjoy the benefit of the provisions
in the following sections, as to the increased value of the premises,
as well when the cause is determined by the court in favor of the
demandant! upon demurrer, or default, as when, by verdict.

‘Sizer.-.27-. The tenant may tile :1 claim in writing to compensation for buildings ovements on the premises, and a request
for an estimation, ry, of the increased value of the premises by reason ther f ;$d the demandant may file a request in
writing, that the jury wou d also estimate, what would have been

the value of the premises, at the time of trial, provided no build,ings had been erected, or improvements made, or waste committed;

both which estimates it shall be their duty to make, and, in their
verdict, state to the court.

Seer. 28. If, after such verdict has been given, the demandant
shall, at the same term of the court, or at a subsequent term, if the

cause should be continued, make his election on record to abandon:
the premises .10 the tenant, at the value estimated by the jury, then
judgment shall be rendered against the tenant, for the sum so esti-:
mated by the jury, and costs.

Seer. 29. At the end of one year, execution may issue for
such sum, with one year’s interest thereon. and costs, unless the‘;
tenant shall then have deposited with the clerk of the court, or in §
his ofiice, for the demandant-’s use, one year’s interest of said sum,
and one third part of said principal sum, and all the costs, if taxed,
and filed, in which case, no execution shall issue at the time.

SECT. 30. If, within two years after the rendition of judgment, 5
the tenant shall pay one year’s interest on the balance of the judg- 
ment due, and one third part of the original judgment, then execu-.
tion shall be further stayed ; otherwise, it may issue for two third
parts of the original amount of the judgment, and interest thereon.

Snow. 31. If the tenant shall, within three years after the rendition of judgment, pay into the clerk’s oflice the remaining third
part and interest thereon, having made the several payments aforesaid, then the execution shall never issue; otherwise, it may, for
the third part aforesaid and one year’s interest thereon; and the
premises shall be held bound as security for the amount of the
judgment, liable to be taken in execution, in whole or in part
satisfaction of said sum, or any unpaid part of the same, and the
interest, until sixty days after an execution might have issued as
aforesaid, notwithstanding any intermediate conveyance, attachment or service upon execution. '

Snow. 32. Such execution may be extended on said land, or
any part of it, and the same may be set off on execution, upon
appraisement according to law; or the same may be sold on the
execution, in the same manner, as an equity of redemption may be
sold ; and, in either case, subject to the right of redemption, as in
those cases.

Snow. 33. Should the tenant or his heirs be evicted from the
land, abandoned to him as aforesaid, by a better title of any claimant, and, if such tenant shall have given notice to the demandant
or his heirs, to aid him in the defence of such claimant’s action,
the tenant, his executors or administrators, may recover back the
money he shall have paid, with lawful interest, of said demandant
or his representatives; but, if no such notice was given, then the
tenant, in an action, brought against the original demandant, to recover back the price paid for the premises, may show, that he was
evicted by force of a title better than that of the original demandant.

SECT. 34. When the demandant shall not elect to abandon
the premises to the tenant, in the manner stated in this chapter,
no writ of possession shall issue on the judgment rendered on the
verdict, nor any new action be sustained for the land, unless the
demandant shall, within one year from the rendition thereof, have
paid into the clerk’s nliice of the same court, or to such person as
the court may appoint, for the use of the tenant, such sums as

shall have been assessed for the buildings and improvements as
aforesaid, with all interest thereon.

Snow. 35. Nothing, contained in this chapter concerning rents

_and prohts, or the estimate and allowance of thewvalne of the 
ings and improvements, shall be construed to extend 10 any action
"between a mortgager and mortgagee, his heirs or assigns; or to any
case where the tenant, or the person under whom he claims, entered
into possession of the premises and occupied under contract with
.the owner, which was known to the tenant, when he entered. A  - ‘
Snow. 36. No tenant, after judgment has been entered against’
him, for the appraised value of the premises, shall unnecessarily
cut wood or take away any timber, or make any strip or waste on
'the land, till the amount of such judgment shall have been satisfiedar
Snow. 37. Whenever the parties agree, that the value of the
buildings and improvements on the land demanded, and the value
of the land shall be ascertained by persons, named on -the record‘
for that purpose, their estimates, as reported by them and recorder
ed shall, for all the purposes of this chapter, be deemed equal in-_
its effect, as the verdict of a jury. A «> 2» 
Snow. 38. Whenever the tenant, in any stage of such an action-,«
shall, in open court, file a statement, in which he shall name the
sum at which he consents, that the buildings and improvements
made on said land, and also the value of the demanded premises
should be estimated, then, if the demandant shall consent to the»:
same, judgment shall be rendered, according to such consent of
parties, in like manner as if said sums had been found by verdict;
but, if the demandant shall not so consent, and the jury shall not
reduce the value of the buildings and improvements below the
sum offered, nor increase the value of the premises above the sum.
offered, he shall not recover costs arising after such offer, but the
'tenant shall recover his costs arising after such offer, and have a--.
separate judgment and execution therefor, subject to the provisions::
of the following section. » ~ -we
Sncr. 39. In all cases, where the demandant does not abandon»
the premises to the tenant, the court may, on the written applica-::
tion of either party, during the term when judgment is entered;order the costs, recovered by the demandant, to be set oh’ against-;:
the appraised value of the buildings and improvements on the
land; a record of which order shall be made, and the court shall "
thereupon enter judgment, as shall be proper, according as the.
balance and its amount may be i_n favor of one party, or the other»!
Snow. 40. No person shall be allowed to sit as a juror in 
trial of a cause, when the value of buildings and improvements‘
made on the demanded premises, and the value of the premises, a
are to be estimated as aforesaid, who, as proprietor or 
shall be interested in a similar question. ‘ :~ -e.--v
SECT. 41. The expiration of a year, after the rendition of judgw
ment, shall not prevent the issuing of execution or writ of possession,
in the cases mentioned in the twenty-ninth, thirtieth and thirty-firstsections of this chapter ; but it may be tak\en out at any time,-:1
within three months after any default of payment by the tenant." v
Snow. 42. A possession and improvement of land by a tenant»
shall be deemed within the provisions of this chapter, though such —
land be not surrounded wholly by a fence, or rendered inaccessible:
by other obstructions, if such possession and improvement shall

have been open, notorious and exclusive, and comporting with the:
usual management and improvement of a farm by its owner, and
though a portion of it may be woodland and uncultivated. .

Snow. 43. If, after judgment has been rendered for the demandant in a writ of entry, either party die before a writ of possession
is executed, or the cause otherwise disposed of, according to the
foregoing provisions, any money, payable by the tenant, may be
paid by him, his executors, or administrators, or by any person, who
is entitled to the estate under him to the demandant, or his executors or administrators, with the like effect, as if both parties were
living.

Snow. 44. The writ of possession, whenever issuable in such?
case, shall be issued in the name of the original demandant against}
the original tenant, though either of them or both be dead; and,‘
when executed, it shall enure to the use and benefit of the demand-'
ant, or whoever is then entitled to the premises under him, in like‘
manner, as if _it had been executed in the lifet.ime of the parties.

Snow. 45. Either party may have a view, by the jury, of the}
place in question, if the court shall be of opinion, that such View
is necessary to a just decision; provided, that the party, movingi
for the same, shall advance such sum to the jury as the court shall '
order, to be taxed against the adverse party, if the cause be de-1
cided against him on the merits, or through his default.

Snow. 46. If the demandant in a writ of entry shall claim an V
estate for life only, in the premises, and, if he shall pay any sumj
allowed to the tenant for improvements, he, or his executors or
administrators, at the termination of his estate, shall be entitled to,
receive of the remainder man or reversioner, the value of such improvements as they then exist; and shall have a lien therefor on
the premises in like manner, as if they had been mortgaged for
payment thereof ; and he may keep possession thereof accordingly,
till the same be paid ; and, if the parties cannot agree on the then
existing value, it may be settled in the same manner, as in case of
the redemption of mortgaged property.

Snow. 47. When any person shall make entry into lands or?
tenements, of which the tenant, then in possession, or those under:
whom he claims, have been in actual possession for the term of six
years or more,.before such entry made upon him or them, against
his or their consent, and shall withhold from such tenant the pos-.
session thereof, such tenant shall have a right to recover of him
so entering, or of his executors or administrators, in an action of
assumpsit for money laid out and expended, the increased value of
the premises, by virtue of the buildings and improvements, made
by the tenant, or those under whom he claims.

Sncr. 48. Such right and value shall be ascertained by the‘
same principles, as regulate such right and value under the provisions of this chapter.

Sncr. 49. All real actions, which shall be pending in court,§
or duly commenced, at the time this chapter shall become a law,?
shall proceed and be conducted to final judgment or other final
disposal, in like manner, as if this chapter had never been enacted.

Snow. 50. In all actions respecting lands or any interest therein, *

any title deed, offered in evidence, may be impeached by the defendant, as obtained by fraud, where the grantor, if a party, could
so impeach it; provided, the defendant has been in the open,
peaceable and adverse possession of the premises for the term of

twenty years.

 
 

CHAPTER 146.
OF LIMITATION or PERSONAL ACTIONS.

SE01‘. 1. Certain actions must be com- Sam‘. 18. Limitation extended, in cases of

menced within six years. fraud.
2. Actions against sheriffs. 19. Renewal of promise must be in
3. Actions of assault and battery, and Writing.

slander. 20. New promise by one, not to de4. Actions for escapes. privc another joint promiser of
5. Scire facias against bail. the benefit of the limitation.
5. Actions against indorsers of writs. 2]. Judgment, when the action is her7. Exception of bank notes and wit- red as to one defendant, and not
nessed notes. the Others.
8. Exception of cases where a specific 22. Non joinder of defendants shall
limitation is provided. not abate a suit, if the action be
9. Case of open and mutual account. barred against the one not sued.
10. Saving of rights of infants, and 23. Effect of indorsements of partial
certain others. payments.
11. General limitation to twenty years. 24. No promiser aifected thereby,
1?. Saving in certain cases of failure of ‘ except those making the paysuits. ments.
13. Provision, in case of the death of 25. Presumption of payment, aha;
either party before the suit is twenty years.
commenced. 26. Application of this chapter to setI4. Saving, of rights of alien enemies, offs.
during a war. 27. This chapter not to affect promises
15. Limitation of suits by individuals, heretofore made.
for penalties. 28. Provision, if defendant be out of
16. Limitation of suits by the state, or the state.
indictments on penal statute. 29. Limitation of actions against exl7. What is a commencement of an ecutors and administrators.
action. ”
I SECTION 1. The following actions shall be commenced, within

, six years next after the cause of action shall accrue, and not afterwards, namely: —

First.

All_ actions of debt, founded upon any contract or lia, bility not under seal, except such, as are brought upon the judg'ment or decree of some court of record of the United States, or
of this, or some other of the United States, or of some justice of
j the peace in this state ;—
L: Second. All actions upon judgments, rendered in any court, not
being a court of record, except justices of the peace in this state;
Third. All actions for arrears of rent ;—
Fourth. All actions of assumpsit, or upon the case, founded

on any contract or liability, express or implied ; —

Fifth. All actions for waste and all actions of trespass on land,

and all actions of trespass, except those of trespass for assault,(
battery and false imprisonment ; — '

Sia:th. All actions of replevin, and other actions for taking,
detaining or injuring goods or chattels ;—

Seventh. All other actions on the case, except actions for slanderous words and for libels.

Snow. 2. All actions against a sherilf, except for escape of pris-1
oners committed on execution, for the negligence or misconduct of '3
his deputies, shall be commenced within four years next after the;
cause of the action shall accrue.

SE01. 3. All actions of assault and battery and for false imprison-1
ment, and all actions for slanderous words and for libels, shall be:
commenced within - two years, next after the cause of action shallg
accrue.

Snow. 4. All actions, for the escape of prisoners committed on:
execution, shall be actions on the case, and shall be commenced]
within one year after the cause of action shall accrue.

Snow. 5. N o scire facias shall be served on bail, unless Within:
one year next after judgment rendered against the principal. .

Snow. 6. All actions against an indorser of a writ must be:
commenced within one year, next after judgment entered in the?
original action. 5

Seer. 7. None of the foregoing provisions shall apply to any,
action brought upon a promissory note, which is signed in the pres-.
ence of an attesting witness, nor to an action brought upon any*
bills, notes or other evidences of debt, issued by any bank. '

4 Pick. 3232. 8 Pick. 245. lMetc. 21. to Maine, 470. 21 Maine, 176. 23 Maine, 497.‘

S1:-:c'r. 8. Not shall any of the provisions in this chapter be construed to apply to any case or suit, which by any particular statute
is limited to be commenced within a different specified time, but
such suits may be commenced within such time.

SECT. 9. In all actions of debt or assumpsit, brought to recover
the balance due upon a mutual and open account current, the
cause of action shall be deemed, to have accrued at the time of
the last item proved in such account.

SECT. 10. If any person, entitled to bring any of the before
mentioned actions, shall, at the time when the cause of action
accrues, be within the age of twenty-one years, a married woman,
insane, imprisoned, or without the limits of the United States, such
person may bring the actions within the times in this chapter respectively limited, after the disability shall be removed.

Snow. 11. All personal actions on any contract, not limited by
any of the foregoing sections, or any other law of the state, shall be
brought, within twenty years after the accruing of the cause of action.

Snow. 12. When a writ shall fail of a sullicient service or return
by any unavoidable accident, or by the default or negligence of any
oflicer to whom it was delivered or directed ; or when such writ
shall be abated, or the action otherwise avoided and defeated, for
any matter of form, or by the death of either party; or, if a judgment for the plaintilf shall be reversed on a writ of error; in such
cases, the plaintiff may commence a new action, on the same
demand, within six months after the abatement or determination of

_the original suit, or reversal of the judgment in the same; and’, if
' the cause of action by law survives, his executor or administrator,
in case of his death, may commence such new action, within said
six months.

Seer. 13. If any person, entitled to bring any of the actions
before mentioned, or liable to any such action, shall die before the
expiration of the time herein limited therefor, or within thirty days

'after the expiration of said term, and, if the cause of action survives by law, the action may be commenced by or against the
executor or administrator of the deceased person, as the case may
be, at any time within two years after administration or letters
testamentary granted, and not afterwards, if barred by this chapter.

5 Sr:c'r. 14. If any person shall be disabled to prosecute an action
in this state, by reason of his being an alien, subject or citizen of
any country at war with the United States, the time of continuance
of such war shall not be deemed any part of the respective periods,
herein limited for the commencement of any of the before mentioned actions.

SE01‘. 15. All actions and suits for any penalty or forfeiture on
'any penal statute, brought by any person, to whom the penalty or
forfeiture is given in whole or in part, shall be commenced within
one year next after the offence was committed, and not afterwards.

Sac-r. 16. If not so prosecuted by any individual, a prosecution
by suit, indictment or information may be commenced therefor, in

[the name and for the use of the state, at any time within two years
next after the offence was committed, and not afterwards.

Seer. 17. The time, when a writ is actually made, with an
'intention of service, shall be deemed the commencement of a suit
in respect to the limitations of this chapter.

Sr:c'r. 18. If any person, liable to any of the actions mentioned
in this chapter, shall fraudulently conceal the cause of such action
from the knowledge of the person entitled thereto, or, if a fraud
shall be committed, which entitles any person to an action, in either
case, the action may be commenced at any time within six years
after the person, entitled thereto, shall discover that he has 
cause of action, but not afterwards.

Seer. 19. In actions of debt or upon the case, founded upon
any contract, no acknowledgment or promise shall be allowed, as
evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take any
case out of the operation of the provisions of this chapter, or to
deprive any party of the benefit thereof, unless such acknowledgment or promise be an express one, and made or contained in some
writing, signed by the party chargeable thereby.

Snow. 20. If there are two or more joint contractors, no such
contractor, executor, or administrator, shall lose the benefit of the
provisions of this chapter, so as to be chargeable by reason only of
any acknowledgment or promise, made or signed by any other or
others of them.

' SE01‘. 2}. In actions, commenced against two or more joint
contractors, if it shall appear on trial, or otherwise, that the plaintiff is barred by the provisions of this chapter, as to one or more of
the defendants, but is entitled to recover against any other or others

of them, by virtue of a new acknowledgment or promise or otherwise, judgment shall be rendered for the plaintiff, as to any of the
defendants against whom he has a right to recover, and for the
other defendant or defendants against the plaintiff.

Snow. 22. If, in any action on contract, the defendant shall
plead in abatement, that any other person ought to have been
jointly sued, and issue be joined on that plea, and if it shall appear,
on the trial, that the action was, by reason of the provisions of this
chapter, barred against the person so named in the plea, the said
issue shall be found for the plaintiff. I

Seer. 23. Nothing, contained in the preceding four sections,
shall alter, take away, or lessen the effect of payment of any prin-T
cipal or interest, made by any person ; but no indorsement or;
memorandum of any such payment, written or made on any pro-g
missory note, bill of exchange, or other writing, by or on behalf of
the party, to whom such payment shall be made, or purport to be
made, shall be deemed sufficient proof of payment, so as to take
the case out of the operation of the provisions of this chapter.

Sacvr. 24. If there are two or more joint contractors, or joint
executors or administrators of any contractor, no one of them
shall lose the benefit of the provisions of this chapter, so as to be‘
chargeable by reason only of any payment, made ‘by any other or;
others of them. 3

Snow. 25. Every judgment and decree of any court of record,
of the United States, or of this or any other state, or of a justice}
of the peace in this state, shall be presumed to be paid and satis-J
tied, at the expiration of twenty years after any duty or obligation
accrued by virtue of such judgment or decree, to do or perform
the matter or thing, therein required.

Snow. 26. All the provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
case of debt or contract, alleged or filed by way of set-off, on the:
part of the defendant; and the time c'f such limitation -of such.
debt or contract shall be computed in like manner, as "if an action
had been commenced therefor, at the time when the plaintiff ls
action was commenced, unless the defendant be deprived of the
benefit of the set-off, by the nonsuit or other act of the plaintiff;
and, when the party so filing the set—otf, is thus defeated of a judgment on the merits of such debt or contract, he may commence a
new action thereon within the time limited, as provided in the
twelfth section of this chapter, for bringing a new action for the
reasons therein mentioned.

Sac'r. 27. None of the provisions of this chapter, respectzingf
the acknowledgment of a debt, or a new promise to pay it, shall
apply to any such acknowledgment or promise, made before this
chapter shall take effect as law; but every such last mentioned
acknowledgment or promise, though not in writing, shall have the
same effect, as if no provision, relating thereto, had been made, as
contained in this chapter.

Snow. 28. If, at the time when any cause of action, mentioned ,
in this chapter, shall accrue against any person, he shall be out of l
the state, the action may be commenced within the time herein
limited therefor, after such person shall come into the state, and if,

after any cause of action shall have accrued, the person against
whom it shall have accrued, shall be absent from, and reside without the state, the time of his absence shall not be taken, as any
part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.

Snow. 29. No executor or administrator, after having given
bond and notice of his appointment, as provided in chapter, one
hundred and twenty, shall be held to answer to the suit of any
creditor of the deceased, unless it shall be commenced within four
years from the time of his giving bond, as aforesaid; excepting in
the cases mentioned in said one hundred and ‘twentieth chapter,
where the provisions are distinctly stated.

 

CHAPTER 147.

OF LIMITATIONS OF REAL ACTIONS AND OF RIGHTS OF ENTRY.

Snow. 1. Rights of entry and of action, bar- ‘Sr:c'r. 10. Time, when the foregoing limitared in twenty years. ‘ tions shall take effect. Saving, as

2. From what time computation is to i to minors, and certain others.
be made. E 11. What shall constitute such a dis3, 4, 5. When uch right shall be 1 seizinas to bar the right of recovdeemed to have accrued.  cry.
6. When action may be brought by a _ I2. Limitation of actions by the state.
minister or other sole corporation. ‘ 13. Limitations not to take effect, in
7. Saving, in favor of infants, andl certain cascs,whcrc first suit fails.
certain other disabled persons. '14. Right of way, or other easement,
8. Further saving, it‘ the person, first when acquired by adverse user.
entitled, die during such disability. 15. Notice, to prevent such acquisi9. Consequence, it‘ tenant in tail, or tion.
remainder man die before the ex- 16. Such notice, how given.

piration of the limitation.

Section 1. N o person shall commence any real or mixed action
for the recovery of lands, or make an entry thereon, unless within
twenty years after the right to make such entry, or bring such
action, first accrued ; or within twenty years after he or those,
under or from~whom he claims, shall have been seized or possessed
of the premises; except as hereinafter provided.

Saar. 2. If such right or title first accrued to an ancestor or
predecessor of the person, who brings the action or makes the entry,
or to any other person from, by or under whom he claims, the said
twenty years shall be computed from the time, when the right or
title so first accrued to such ancestor, predecessor or other person.

Snow. 3. In the construction of this chapter, the right of en,try, or of action to recover land, shall be deemed to have first accrued at the respective times hereinafter mentioned :—

- First. When a person shall be disseized, his right of entry shall
be deemed to have accrued at the time of such disseizin ;—

Second. When he claims, as heir or devisee of one who died
seized, his right shall be deemed to have accrued at the time of
such death, unless there is a tenancy by the curtesy or other estate,
intervening after the death of such ancestor or devisor; in which

case, his right shall be deemed to accrue, when such intermediate(
estate shall expire, or when it would have expired, by its own lim- '
itation ;—Tlvird. When there is such an intermediate estate, and in all
cases, when the party claims by force of any remainder or reversion, his right, so far as it is affected by the limitation herein prescribed, shall be deemed to accrue, when the intermediate estate
would have expired by its own limitation, notwithstanding any forfeiture thereof, for which he might have entered at an earlier time.

Ssc'r. 4. The preceding clause shall not prevent any person’
from entering, when entitled to do so, by reason of any forfeiture
or breach of condition; but, if he claims under such a title, his
right shall be deemed to have accrued, when the forfeiture was
incurred, or the condition broken.

Snow. 5. In all cases not specially provided for, the right of 5
entry shall be deemed to have accrued, when the claimant or the
person under whom he claims, first became entitled, to the possession of the premises under the title, upon which the entry or action
is founded.

Seer. 6. If any minister or other sole corporation shall be dis-‘
seized, any of his successors may enter upon the premises, or may}
bring an action for the recovery of them, at any time within five:
years after the death, resignation or removal of the person disseized, notwithstanding the twenty years after the disseizin shall have
expired.

Saar. ‘I. If, at the time when such right of entry or of action:
upon or for any lands, shall first accrue, the person entitled to suchf
entry or action, shall be within the age of twenty-one years, or ai
married woman, insane, imprisoned, or absent from the United
States, such person, or any one claiming from, by or under him,
may make the entry, or bring the action at any time within ten
years after such disability shall be removed, notwithstanding the
twenty years, before limited in that behalf, shall have expired.

Snow. 8. If the person, first entitled to make such entry or
bring such action, shall die during the continuance of any of the
disabilities mentioned in the preceding section, and no determination or judgment shall have been had of or upon the title, right or
action which accrued to him, the entry may be made, on [or] the
action brought by his heirs, or any other person claiming from, by
or under him, at any time within ten years after his death, notwithstanding the said twenty years shall have elapsed ; but no
such further time for making such entry, or bringing such action,
beyond what is herein before prescribed, shall be allowed, by
reason of the disability of any other person.

‘Seer. 9. When a tenant in tail, or a remainder man in tail,
shall die, before the expiration of the period herein before limited
for making any entry, or bringing an action for lands, no person,
claiming any estate, which such tenant in tail or remainder man
might have barred, shall make an entry, or bring an action, to
recover such land, but within the period, during which the tenant
in tail, or remainder man, if he had so long lived, might have
made such entry, or brought such action.

Snow. 10. The limitations, herein before prescribed, as to the

Etime, within which an action may be brought to recover any land,
‘shall take elfect from and after the first day of April, in the year

one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three; and,‘ if any person,
who shall then be entitled to bring any real action, which is to be
abolished after that day, as is mentioned in chapter, one hundred
and forty-five, shall then be within the age of twenty-one years, a
married woman, insane, imprisoned, or without the limits of the
United States, the action may be brought at any time within five
years after such disability shall cease, or after the death of the person so disabled: provided, that no such action shall be maintained,
after it would have been barred by the statutes of limitation in
force, and immediately before the time when this chapter shall become a law.

Snow. 11. To constitute a disseizin, or such exclusive and adversary possession of lands, as to bar or limit the right of the true

r'owner thereof to recover the same, it shall not be necessary that

such lands shall be surrounded with fences, or rendered inaccessible by water; but it shall be suliicient, if the possession, occupation and improvement are open and notorious, and comporting
with the ordinary management of a farm; although that part of the
same, which composes the woodland belonging to such farm, and
used therewith as a wood lot, shall not be inclosed as before mentioned.

Snow. 12. No real or mixed action, for the recovery of any
lands, shall be commenced by or on behalf of the state, unless
within twenty years from and after the day, on which this chapter
shall become a law, or within twenty years next after the time of
the accruing of the title to the state.

Snow. 13. When any writ, in a real or mixed action, shall fail
of sufficient service or return by an unavoidable cause, or by the
default or negligence of any oflicer to whom it was delivered, or
directed for service, or when such writ shall be abated, or the action
otherwise avoided or defeated for any matter of form, or by the
death or intermarriage or other disability of either party, accruing
since the last continuance, or if a judgment for the demandant shall
be reversed on a writ of error, the demandant may commence a
new action, at any time within six months after abatement or determination of the first suit, or reversal of the judgment of the same.

Snow. 14. No person shall acquire any right or privilege of way,
air or light, or any other easement, from, in, upon or over the land
of another, by the adverse use and enjoyment thereof; unless
such use shall have been continued, uninterrupted for twenty years.

Snow. 15. The owner of the land, in such cases, for the purpose of preventing such right, as is mentioned in the preceding
section, may give notice, in writing, to the person claiming such
right or privilege, of his intention to contest such right or easement; and such notice, being served and recorded, as hereinafter
stated, shall be deemed an interruption of such use, and prevent
the acquisition of a right thereto, by continuance of the use thereof for any length of time.

Snow. 16. Such notice may be given by an oflicer, as in civil

