Sec. 4685. One form.— The distinction between actions at law and suits
in equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, are abolished; and
there shall be in this state but one form of action, for the enforcement or pro
tection of private rights, and the redress of private wrongs; which shall be
called a civil action.
Sec. 4686. Designation of parties. — The party complaining shall be
known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
Sec. 4687. Within following periods.— Actions can only be commenced
within the periods prescribed in this chapter, after the cause of action accrues,
except where in special cases a different limitation is prescribed by statute.
Sec. 4688. Within fifteen years.— No action for the recovery of real
property or for the recovery of the possession thereof, shall be maintained
unless it appears that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor or grantor, was
seized or possessed of the premises in question, within fifteen years before the
commencement of the action.
Sec. 46S9. Same.— Every action to foreclose a mortgage heretofore or
hereafter made upon real estate, shall be commenced within fifteen years after
the cause of action accrues,* and said fifteen years shall not be enlarged or
extended by reason of any non-residence.
Sec. 4690. Within ten years. — Within ten years: An action upon a
judgment or decree of a court of the United States, or of any state or territory
of the United States.
Sec. 4691. "Within six years. — Within six years:
First. An action upon a contract or other obligation, express or implied,
excepting those mentioned in the preceding section;
Second. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than those
upon a penalty or forfeiture;
Third. An action for trespass upon real property;
Fourth. An action for taking, detaining, and injuring personal property,
including actions for the specific recovery thereof;
Fifth. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury to the
person or rights of another, not arising on obligation, and not hereinafter
enumerated ;
Sixth. An action for relief, on the ground of fraud; the cause of action in
such case not to be deemed to have accrued, until the discovery by the ag
grieved party of the facts constituting the fraud;
Seventh. Actions to enforce a trust or compel an accounting, where the
trustee has neglected to discharge his trust, or has repudiated the trust rela
tion, or has fully performed the same.
Sec. 4692. "Within three years.— Within three years:
First. An action against a sheriff, coroner or constable, upon a liability by
the doing of an act in his official capacity, and in virt ue of his office, or by the
omission of an official duty, including the non-payment of money collected
upon an execution.
Second. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, where the
action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and the state of Minne
sota,
Sec. 4693. Within two years.— Within two years :
First. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false imprisoment.
Second. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty to the state.
Sec. 4094. "Within one year.— Every action upon a statute for a penalty
given, in whole or in part, to the person who prosecutes for the same, shall be
commenced by said party within one year after the commission of the offence;
and if the action is not commenced within one year by a private party, it
may be commenced within two years thereafter on behalf of the state, by the
attorney general, or the county attorney of the county where the offence was
committed.
Sec 4695. Applies to actions by State.-- The limitations prescribed in
this chapter for the commencement of actions shall apply to the same actions
when brought in the name of the state, or in the name of any officer, or
otherwise, for the benefit of the state, in the same manner as to actions brought
by citizens.
Sec. 4696. Applies to corporations — New action.— If any act Ion is
commenced within the time prescribed therefor, and judgment given therein
for the plaintiff, and the same is arrested or reversed on error or appeal, the
200
plaintiff may commence a new action within one year after such reversal or
arrest. *That all the provisions of this title as to the time of the commence
ment of civil actions shall apply to municipal and all other corporations, with
like power and effect as the same applies to natural persons.
Sec. 4697. When statute not bar.— No acknowledgment or promise is
sufficient evidence of a new or continuing contract by which to take the case
out of the operation of this chapter, unless the same is contained in some writ
ing, signed by the party to be charged thereby ; but this section shall not alter
the effect of any payment of principal or interest.
Sec. 4698. When summons served.— An action is commenced as to
each defendant, when the summons is served on him, or on a codefendant who
is a joint contractor, or otherwise united in interest with him; and is deemed
to be pending from the time of its commencement, until its final determina
tion upon appeal, or until the time for an appeal has passed, and the judgment
has been satisfied.
Sec. 4699. Attempt equivalent. — An attempt to commence an action
is deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the meaning of
this chapter, when the summons is delivered, with the intent that it shall be
actually served, to the sheriff or other officer of the county in which the de
fendants, or one of them, usually or last resided; or if a corporation is a
defendant, to the sheriff or other officer of the county in which such corpora
tion was established by law, or where its general business was transacted, or
where it kept an office for the transaction of business; but such an attempt
shall be followed by the first publication of the summons, or the service
thereof, within sixty days.
Sec 4700. Prom time of last item.— In an action brought to recover
a balance due upon a mutual, open and current account, when there have been
reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of action is deemed to have
accrued from the time of the last item proved in the account on either side.
Sec. 4701. When cause arose out of State. — When a cause of action
has arisen in a state or territory out of this state, or in a foreign country, and,
by the laws thereof, an action thereon cannot there be maintained by reason
of the lapse of time, an action thereon cannot be maintained in this state, ex
cept in favor of a citizen thereof, who has had the cause of action from the
time it accrued.
Sec. 4702. When non-resident. — If, when the cause of action accrues
against a person, he is out of the state, the action may be commenced within
tb"e times herein limited after his return to the state; and if, after the cause of
action accrues, he departs from and resides out of the state, the time of his
absence is not part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.
Sec. 4703. When an alien. — When a person is an alien, subject or citizen
of a county at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of the
war is not a part of the period limited for the commencement of the action.
Sec 4704. Stayed by injunction or prohibition.— When the com
mencement of an action is stayed by injunction, or statutory prohibition, the
time of the continuance of the injunction or prohibition is not part of the
time limited for the commencement of the action.
Sec'4705. In whom.— If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned
in this chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, is, at the time the cause of
action accrued, either
First. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,
Second. Insane; or,
Third. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the sentence
of a criminal court for a term less than his natural life.
The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited for the com
mencement of the action, except that the period within which the action must
be brought, cannot be extended more than five years by any such disability,
except infancy, nor can it be so extended, in any case, longer than one year
after the disability ceases.
" Fourth. A married
woman."
Sec. 4706. Exist at time action accrues.— No person can avail himself
of a disability, unless it existed at the time his right of action accrued.
Sec 4707. Cumulative.— When two or more disabilities co-exist at the
time the right of action accrues, the limitation does not attach until they are
all removed.
Sec 4708. Same — When action survives If a person entitled to
bring an action dies before the expiration of the time limited for the com
mencement thereof, and the cause of action survives, an action may be com
menced by his personal representatives after the expiration of that time, and
within one year from his death. If a person against whom an action may be
brought, dies before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survives, an action may be commenced against
his representatives, after the expiration of that time, and within one year
after the issuing of letters testamentary or of administration.
Sec 4709. Time for granting letters not computed.— The time which
elapses between the death of a person and the granting of letters testamentary
and of administration on his estate, not exceeding six months, and the period
of six months after the granting of such letters, are not to be deemed any
part of the time limited lor the commencement of actions by executors or ad
ministrators.
Sec. 4710. In county where subject of action situate — Actions for
the following causes shall be tried in the county in which the subject of the
action, or some part thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the court to
change the place of trial as hereinafter provided:
First.— For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein,
or for the determination in any form of such right or interest, and for injuries
to real property.
Second. — For the partition of real property.
Third.— For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.
Fourth. — For the recovery of personal property detained for any cause.
"detained" for "distrained" in fourth subdivision. The fourth sub
division modified by section -—, post. 1 M. 287; 5 M. 148; 21 M. 15.
Sec. 4711. Same — Real property. — All actions for the recovery of
real property or of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination in
any form of such right or interest, and for injuries to real property, shall be
brought and tried in the county in which the subject of the action or some
part thereof is situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place
of trial in the cases specified in subdivisions second, third and fourth of sec
tion fifty-one of chapter sixty -six of general statutes of one thousand eight
hundred and seventy-eight. If the county designated in the complaint is not
the proper county, the court therein shall have no jurisdiction of said action.
1885. ch. 169 : " An act in reference to the place of trial of civil actions." Approved March 3d.
Sec. 4712. Attachment against property of non-residents. — If the
defendant is a non-resident of this state, and the plaintiff proceeds against
him, by attaching his property, such action may be brought in any county
where the defendant has property liable to attachment.
Sec 4713. In county where cause of action arose.— Actions for the
following causes shall be tried in the county where the cause or some part
thereof arose, subject to the power of the court to change the place of trial as
provided by law :
First. — For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute,
except that where it is imposed for an offence committed on a lake, river, or
other stream of water situated in two or more counties, the action may be
brought in any county bordering on such lake, river or stream.
Second. —Against a public officer, or person specially appointed to execute
his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a person
who, by his command or in his aid, does anything touching the duties of such
officer.
Sec 4714. In all Other cases.— In all other cases, except when the state
of Minnesota is plaintiff, the action shall be tried in the county in which the
defendants, or any of them, shall reside at the commencement of the action;
or if none of the parties shall reside or be found in the state, or the defendant
be a foreign corporation, the same may be tried in any county which the
plaintiff shall designate in his complaint, subject, however, to the power of
the court to change the place of trial, in the cases provided by law.*
Demand by defendant. —■ If the county designated for that purpose in
the complaint be not the proper county, the action may, notwithstanding, be
tried therein, unless the defendant, before the time for answering expires,
demand in writing that the trial be had in the proper county, and the place
of trial shall be thereupon changed to the proper county, by the order of the
court, unless the parties consent thereto.*
Claim and delivery of personal property. — Provided, that in an
action for the claim and delivery of personal property wrongfully taken, the
action may be brought and maintained in the county where the wrongful
taking occurred, or where the plaintiff resides.t
A corporation shall be deemed to reside in any county where it has an
office, agent, or place of business, within the meaning of this section. The
court may change the place of trial of actions included in this section, as pro
vided by law, as in other actions.
Different counties — Provided that where defendants reside in different
counties and appear and answer by different attorneys, the action shall, on
motion, be transferred to the county agreed on by such defendants, or which
is designated by the largest number of defendants who join in an answer.
"except when
Blate of Minnesota is plaintiff," " or be found in the state, or the defendant be a foreign corpo
ration." Acts 1876, ch. 48, approved March 1st. added matter between * *. Acts 1877, ch. 68,
approved February 14th, inserted words above the *and added the proviso, and also a provis
ion that the residence of a corporation is where it has its principal office and place of business;
which provision was struck out by acts 1878, ch. !i8, and matter below f added. Acts 1881,
Ex. S. ch. 25, added last proviso. Acts 1889, ch. 161, makes substantially same provision for
demand for change in municipal and justice courts. 1 M. 287; 5 M. 148; 28 M. 864; 29 M. 47;
80 M. 445; 82 M. 186; 33 M. 88; 34 M. 007.
Sec. 4715. Demand by defendant — Evading the law.— In any civil
action now pending or that may hereafter be commenced in any court of this
state against one or more defendants residing in a county, or counties, other
than that wherein such action is pending, or may hereafter be instituted, and
one or more defendants residing in the county wherein such action is pending,
or may be commenced, and in which any of such defendants shall have de
manded that the place of trial of such action be changed to the proper county
as required by section forty-nine, chapter sixty-six, of the general statutes
one thousand eight hundred and seventy -eight. If anyone or more of the de
fendants therein having made such demand shall make and file in the office of
the clerk of the court of the county wherein such action has been or shall be
commenced an affidavit stating that he or they have good reason to believe
and does believe that any one or more of the parties to such action have been
made defendants therein for the purpose of evading the law relating to chang
ing place of trial, or to deprive any of the defendants therein of their right
to have the place of trial of said action changed; and setting forth the reason
of such belief, and shall execute and file a bond or undertaking, with one or
more sureties, conditioned to pay to the other defendants, or any of them, all
such additional costs and expenses as they shall incur by reason of the place
of trial of said action being changed, and to pay to the plaintiff all such additional
cost and expenses as he may incur, in case he recover judgment against the
defendant so joined with such non-resident defendants, in case such defendant
in good faith defends such action. A copy of said affidavit shall be served
upon the plaintiff's attorney, together with a notice that a motion will be
made before the judge of the court in which said action is pending, at a time
therein mentioned, for a change of place of trial to the county named in such
demand; said copy and notice shall be served at least eight (S) days before
the day of hearing. And on such hearing the said judge shall, if he deems
proper, make an order changing the place of trial to the county named in
said demand.
1881, ch. 132: "An act relating to changing place of trial." Approved March 7, 1831.
Skc. 4716. Change of place Of trial — If the county designated for
that purpose in the complaint is not the proper county, the action may, not
■withstanding, bo tried therein, unless the defendant, before the time for
answering expires, demands in writing that the trial be had in the proper
county, and the place of trial is thereupon changed by consent of parties or
by order of court, as is provided in this section. The court may change the
place of trial in the following cases:
First. When the county designated for that purpose in the complaint is
not the proper county;
Second. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be
had therein;
Third. When the convenience of witnesses, and the ends of justice, would
be promoted by the change;
Fourth. A change of venue may, in all civil cases, be made, upon the con
sent in writing of the parties or their attorneys. When the place of trial is
changed, all other proceedings shall be bad in the county to which the place
of trial is changed unless otherwise provided by the consent of the parties in
writing duly filed, or order of the court; and the papers shall be filed or
transferred accordingly.
Sec 4717. Real party in interest. — Every action shall be prosecuted
in the name of the real party in interest, except as hereinafter provided;
but this section does not authorize the assignment of a thing in action not
arising out of contract.
Sec. 4718. Action by assignee. — In the case of an assignment of a thing
in action, the action by the assignee is without prejudice to any set-otf or
other defence existing at the time of, or before notice of, the assignment;
but this section does not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of ex
change, transferred in good faith and upon good consideration, before due.
Sec 4719. By executor, trustee, or authorized by statute. — An
executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly
authorized by statute, may sue without joining with him the person for whose
benefit the action is prosecuted. A person with whom, or in whose name, a
contract is made for the benefit of another, is a trustee of an express trust,
"within the meaning of this section.
Sec 4720. Against defendants under firm name— When two or
more persons, associated in any business, transact such business under a com
mon name, whether it comprises the names of such persons or not, the associ
ates may be sued by such common name, the process in such case being served
on one or more of the associates; the judgment in the action shall bind the
joint property of all the associates in the same manner as if all had been
named defendants.
Sec 4721. Defendant designated by any name.— When the plaintiff
is ignorant of the name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated, in
any process, pleading or proceeding, by any name; and when his true name
is discovered, the process, pleading or proceeding may be amended accord
ingly.
Sec. 4722. For seduction of daughter or ward— A father, or in case
of his death, or desertion of his family, the mother, may prosecute as plaintiff
for the seduction of the daughter, and the guardian for the seduction of the
ward, though the daughter or ward is not living with, or in the service of the
plaintiff at the time of the seduction, or afterward, and there is no loss of
service.
Sec. 4723. For injuries to minors.— A father, or in case of his death,
or desertion of his family, the mother, may maintain an action for the injury
of the child, and the guardian for the injury of the ward.
Sec. 4724. Actions by and against. — A married woman may sue or be
sued as if unmarried, and without joining her husband, in all cases where the
husband would not be a necessary party aside from the marriage relation.
Sec. 4725. In name of husband, when.—When a husband has deserted
his family, the wife may prosecute or defend, in his name, any action which
he might have prosecuted or defended, and shall have the same powers and
rights therein as he might have had.
Sec. 4726. When plaintiff.— When an infant is a plaintiff, he shall ap
pear by his guardian, who shall be appointed by the court in which the action
is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof;* and shall be a competent and responsi
ble person, resident of this state, and shall file his written consent to such ap
pointment in the office of the clerk of the district court or court of common
pleas before the issuing of the summons in such action. Whenever it shall
appear to the court or judge that such guardian is not competent or responsi
ble, he may be removed, and another substituted, without prejudice to the
progress of the action; and' before such guardian shall receive any money or
property of such infant he shall be required, by an order of such court or
judge, to give a bond, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by such court
or judge, to secure such money or property, and account therefor to such in
fant.
Sec. 4727. When defendant.— That whenever an infant is a defendant,
he shall appear by guardian, to be appointed by the court in which the action
is pending, or the judge thereof, or the proper court commissioner; and such
court or judge may make such orders as may be necessary for the protection
of the rights of such infant defendant. Such guardian must be a resident of
this state, and consent in writing to such appointment, which must be liled in
the oflice of the clerk of such court at the time of said appointment.
Sec. 4728. How guardian ad litem appointed.— That whenever it
shall be necessary to appoint a guardian for any infant, a party to any action,
such guardian shall be appointed as follows:
First. — "When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the infant, if
he is of the age of fourteen years, or if under that age, upon the application
of a relative or friend, or the general or testamentary guardian of the infant;
if upon the application of a relative or friend of the infant, notice thereof shall
first be given to the general or testamentary guardian of the infant, if he has
one within this state; if he has none, and resides within this state, then to the
person with whom such infant resides.
Second. — When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant, /
if he is of the age of fourteen years, and applies within twenty days after thi
service of the summons; if he is under the age of fourteen, or neglects so to
apply, then upon the application of any other party to the action, or of the,
general or testamentary guardian, or of a relative or friend of the infant, [after]
notice of such application, when made by such party, relative or friend, first
being given to such general or testamentary guardian, if the infant has one
within this state; if he has none, then to the infant himself, if over fourteen
years of age, and within this state; or if under that age, and within the state,
then to the person with whom such infant resides, f If such infant have no
general or testamentary guardian within this state, *and if such infant be not
within this state, notice of such application shall be given by the publication
of a copy thereof, once in each week for three successive weeks, in a newspaper
printed and published in the county in which the action is brought; and if
there is no such newspaper in the county, then in a newspaper printed and
published at the capital of the state. The return of the sheriff of the county
in which the action is brought, made upon the summons, that such infant de
fendant cannot be found within such county, shall be prima facie evidence
that such infant is not within this state, and that he has no general or testa
mentary guardian therein.
1877, ch. 80: " An act providing the manner of appointing guardians ad litem," approved
February 15, 1877, as amended 1S85, ch. 117, by striking out "or" and inserting "and" at*.
This act same as § 81, ch. (iC, G. S., except matter below f and the words "general or testa
mentary guardian."
In Joint and Seveeal Obligations.
Sec. 4729-. When obligation several. — Persons severally liable upon
the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange
and promissory notes, and sureties on the same instrument, may all or any of
them be included in the same action, at the option of the plaintiff.
Sec 4730. When obligation joint.— Any creditor who now has, or
hereafter may have, a debt, demand or judgment against any copartnership
or several joint obligors, or promisors, or debtors, may discharge one or more
of such copartners, obligors, promisors or debtors, without impairing his
right to recover the residue of his debt or demand against the other copart
ners, obligors, promisors or debtors, or preventing the enforcement of the pro
portionate share of any or all undischarged judgment debtors under such,
judgment.
1807, ch. 78, § 1 : " An act providing for the discharge of one or more joint debtors without
impairing the rights of the creditor as to other debtors." Approved March 9th.
Sec 4731. Same — Effect of discharge.— Such discharge shall have
the same effect for all purposes, and as to all persons, as a payment, by the
party so discharged, of his equal part of the debt, according to the number of
aebtors, aside from sureties
Sec. 4732. Same. — This act shall not be construed so as to affect or change
the liability of such copartners, joint obligors, promisors or debtors to each
other.
1867, ch. 78, § 4.
Sec. 4733. Same — Action against all or any:— In all such cases a
suit may be brought and maintained against all or any of such copartners, joint
obligors, promisors or debtors, not so discharged, setting forth, in the com
plaint thereof, that the contract was made with the defendants and the party
so discharged, and that such party has been discharged. Such discharge shall
have no other effect than such as is in this act mentioned.
1867, ch. 78, § 2.
Additional Parties.
Sec 4734. Order to appear. — Whenever the plaintiff, his agent or at
torney, in any action now or hereafter pending in any of the district courts
of this state, shall discover that any party ought, in order to a full and just
determination of such action, to have been made defendant therein, and shall
make an affidavit stating the pendency of such action, and the reasons why
such party ought to have been made defendant therein, and present the same
to said court or to a judge thereof, the said court or judge shall, if such rea
sons are deemed sufficient, grant an order reciting the summons by which the
action was commenced, and requiring the said party to appear and answer the
complaint in said summons named, within twenty days after the service of
such order upon him, exclusive of the day of such service; and in default
thereof, the judgment or relief demanded in said complaint will be rendered
against him, in all respects as though he had been made a party to such action
in the first instance.
1868, ch. 79, § 1 : "An act to authorize the district court or any judge thereof in actions
now or hereafter pending therein, to bring parties into court to defend such actions by order."
Approved February 21th. 34 M. 347 ; 39 N. W. 156.
Sec 4735. Service of order. — The order shall be served upon the party
in the manner now provided by law for the service of a summons in said
court in civil actions.
1868, ch. 79, g 2.
Sec. 4730. Stay of proceedings — The said court or judge may, upon
application of the plaintiff, at the time of applying for the order in the first
Section of this act named, or at any time thereafter, make an order staying
all further proceedings in said action, for such time as may be necessary to
enable the plaintiff to have the said party in said action named brought into
court to defend in said action.
1868, ch. 79, g 3.
Sec 4737. Further proceedings. — After a party has been brought into
court under the provisions of this act, the action shall proceed against all the
parties thereto, in the same manner as though they had all been originally
made defendants therein.
1808, ch. 79, § 4. 34 M. 347.
Abatement of Actions.
Sec. 4738. When. — An action does not abate by the death, marriage, or
other disability of a part}', or by the transfer of any interest, if the cause of
action survives or continues. In case of the death, marriage, or other disa
bility of a party, the court, on motion, fmay allow the action to be continued
bv or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other
trinsfer of interest, the action shall be continued in the name of the original
party, or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made, to be
added or substituted in the action.* After a verdict of a jury, decision or
finding of a court, or report of a referee, in any action for a wrong, such ac
tion shall not abate by the death of any party.
" at anv time within one year thereafter or afterward on a supplemental
complaint," and added "the matter below *. 1 M. 246; 7 M. 29; 9 M. 295; 10 M. 158; 12 M.
875; 14 M. 220; 17 M. 215; 20 M. 173, 405; 23 M. 542 ; 25 M. 121 ; 31 M. 450; 33 M. 224 ; 36 M.
452 ; 38 M. 235.
TITLE 5.
Joinder of Actions.
Sec 4739. When actions to be joined. — The plaintiff may unite several
causes of action in the same complaint, whether legal or equitable, when they
are included in either of the following classes:
First. The same transaction, or transactions connected with the same sub
ject of action ;
Second. Contracts express or implied;
Third. Injuries, with or without force, to person and property, or either;
Fourth. Injuries to character; or,
Fifth. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for with
holding thereof, and tbe rents and profits of the same; or,
Sixth. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages for
the withholding thereof; or,
Seventh. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or by operation
of law. But the causes of action so united shall belong to one only of these
classes, and affect all the parties to the action, and not require different places
of trial, and shall be separately stated.
Sec. 4740. Actions commenced by.— Civil actions in the several dis
trict courts of this state shall be commenced by the service of a summons,
as hereinafter provided.
Sec 4741. Requirements of.— The summons must be subscribed by the
plaintiff or his attorney, and directed to the defendant, requiring him to an
swer the complaint,* and serve a copy of his answer on the person whose
name is subscribed to the summons, at a place within the state therein speci
fied, in which there is a post-office, within twenty days after the service of
the summons, exclusive of the day of service.
"and file
his answer in office of clerk of the court in which the action is brought within thirty days after
service of summons, exclusive of day of service, and notify defendant of the filing," and in
serted above. Section 66, repealed by 1867, ch. 63, provided that no copies need be served on
adverse party. 9 M. 221 ; 12 M. 80, 255; 14 M. 537.
Sec. 4742. Same — Notice to take judgment by default. — The sum
mons shall also contain a notice, in substance as follows:
First. In an action arising on contract for the payment of money only, that
he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the defendant fails to
answer the complaint.
Second. In other actions for the recovery of money only, that he will, upon
such failure, have the amount he is entitled to recover ascertained by the
court, or under its direction, and take judgment for the amount so ascertained.
Third. In other actions, that, if the defendant fails to answer the com
plaint, the plaintiff will appty to the court for the relief demanded therein.
Sec. 4743. Same — Notice or copy of complaint.— A copy of the com
plaint must be served upon the defendant with the summons, unless the com
plaint itself be filed in the office of the clerk of the district court of the county
in which the action is commenced, in which case the service of the copy may
be omitted; but the summons in such case must notify the defendant that the
complaint has been filed with the clerk of said court; and if the defendant
appear within ten days after the service of the summons, the plaintiff must
serve a copy of the complaint on the defendant or his attorney, within five
days after the notice of such appearance, and the defendant shall have at least
ten days thereafter to answer the same; and no judgment shall be entered
against him for want of an answer in such case till the expiration of the time.
" the
complaint shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the court in which the action is brought,
prior to the service of the summons in such action."
Service of Summons.
Sec. 4744. By "Whom. — The summons may be served by the sheriff of
the county where the defendant is found, or by any other person not a party
to the action; and the service shall be made, and the summons returned and
filed in the clerk's office, with all reasonable diligence.
Sec. 4745. Same — Pees.— Whenever any person, other than a sheriff or
other proper officer, shall serve a summons issued out of the district court, no
fee shall be allowed therefor, either for traveling in making such service, or
for serving such summons.
1874, ch. 80: " An act in relation to the service of summons in district court." Approved
March 5, 1874
Sec 4746. How served. — The summons shall be served by delivering a
copy thereof, as follows:
First. If the action is against a corporation, to the president, or other head
of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer, a director or managing agent
thereof: * provided, that in case none of the officers named can be found within
the state, of which the return of the sheriff that they cannot be found within
his count}' shall be prima facie evidence, then the summons may be served by
publication;* but such service can be made in respect to a foreign corporation
only when it has property within this state, or the cause of action arose
therein;
Second. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such minor
personally, and also to his father, mother or guardian, or if there is none
■ . i • , i • . .1 . I : .1 a l r 1 -
vtithin this state, then to any person having the care or control of such minor,
with whom he resides, or by whom he is employed;
Third. If against a person for whom a guardian has been appointed for
any cause, to such guardian, and to the defendant personally ;
Fourth. In all other cases to the defendant personally, or by leaving a copy
of the summons at the house of his usual abode, with some person of suitable
age and discretion then resident therein.
Sec. 4747. On municipal corporations.— Every summons, process and
notice whatever, affecting any city or other municipal corporation, shall be
served upon the mayor or chief executive officer of such corporation, and in
his absence upon the president of the council, and in the absence of both, upon
the clerk; and if there is no mayor or president of the council in such city or
municipal corporation, then by leaving a certified copy at the office of such
clerk if any, and if there is no such clerk, then by posting the same in a con
spicuous place within the limits of such municipality ; provided, that the court
in which any complaint may be filed, or any judge thereof, may in his discre
tion, direct such other or further notice of the pendency of such action to be
given by publication or otherwise, as to the court or any judge thereof may
seem meet and proper, and shall upon the request of five property holders of
such corporation, appoint counsel to defend any such action.
1885, ch. 153: "An act to provide for service of summons or other process upon municipal
corporations." Approved February 28, 1885.
Sec. 4748. On railroad companies. — The service of all process and
papers in any civil action or proceeding, before any justice of the peace, or in
the district court, against any railroad company within this state, may be
made upon any acting ticket or freight agent of such company, within the
county in which the action or proceeding shall be commenced, and shall be
taken and held in all cases to be a legal service: provided, that whenever
any railroad company has appeared in an action by an attorney, thereafter
such service shall be made upon the attorney of record.
1870, ch. 17: " An act to provide for service of process in certain cases," approved March 2d,
as amended 1871, ch. 64. Approved March 6th. 36 M. 87.
Sec. 4749. On domestic corporations without resident officers.—
"Whenever any corporation created by the laws of this state, or late territory
of Minnesota, does not have an officer in this state upon whom legal service
of process can be made, *of which the return of the sheriff shall be conclu
sive evidence, an action or proceeding against such corporation may be com
menced in any county where the cause of action or proceeding may arise or
said corporation may have property; and service may be made upon such
corporation by depositing a copy of the summons, writ or other process, for
citations in any proceeding for the collection of unpaid personal property
taxes, in the office of the secretary of state, which shall be taken, deemed
and treated as personal service on such corporation: provided, that whenever
any process, writ or citation against or affecting any corporation aforesaid is
served on the secretary of state, the same shall be by duplicate copies, one of
which shall be filed in the office of said secretary of state, and the other by
him immediately mailed, postage prepaid, to the office of the company, or to
the president, secretary or any director or officer of said corporation, as may
appear or be ascertained by said secretary from the articles of incorporation
on file in his office.
1875, ch. 43, as amended 1885, ch. 62. Approved March 9th. Amendment inserted at *,
"of which the return of the sheriff shall be conclusive evidence ;" and at f. " or citation in any
proceeding for the collection of unpaid personal property taxes," and changed the phraseology
of the proviso. Acts 1875, ch. 43, entitled "An act to provide for making service upon corpo
rations created by the laws of the state or territory of Minnesota where such corporation lias
no officer in this state upon whom service of process can be made." Approved March 4, 1875.
36 M. 87.
Sec. 4750. On foreign corporations.— That the summons in any civil
action or proceeding wherein a foreign corporation is defendant may be served
by delivering a copy thereof to the president, secretary, or any managing or
general agent of said foreign corporation ; and such service shall be of the
same force, eifect and validity as like service upon domestic corporations.
This act shall have full force and effect, notwithstanding any provisions of
the general statutes, or other law of the state inconsistent herewith, and shall
be published with and as a part of the general statutes.
Acts 1806, G. S. p. 404: " An act to provide for the service of mesne process upon foreign
corporations." Approved February 28, 1806. 9 M. 239; 10 M. 386; 13 M. 278. Acts 1876,
ch. 20 (ante, 2950-2U5U), provides for service on foreign insurance companies.
Sec 4751. When some defendants not served When the action is
against two or more defendants, and the summons is served on one or more,
but not all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows:
First. If the action is against the defendants jointly indebted upon a con
tract, he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the court other
wise directs; and if he recovers judgment, it may be entered against all the
defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced against
the joint property of all, and the separate property of the defendants served;
Second. If the action is against defendants severally liable, he may pro
ceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as if they were the
only defendants;
Third. Though all the defendants have been served with the summons,
judgment may be taken against any of them severally, when the plaintiff
would be entitled to judgment against such defendants if the action had been
against them alone.
Sec 4752. On non-residents in actions respecting realty Any
person or persons, co-partnership or corporation, not resident of this state,
owning or claiming any interest in or lien upon any lands lying within this
state, may tile in the office of the secretary of state of the state of Minne
sota, a written agreement, duly executed and acknowledged, in the manner
provided by law for the execution and acknowledgment of deeds, thereby
stipulating and agreeing upon the part of the party or parties executing the
same, that service or process and summons in any action or proceeding con
cerning such real estate, or any interest therein or lien thereon, hereafter com
menced in any of the courts of this state, in which such owner or claimant
shall be made a party, may be made upon such agent or agents as shall be
designated in such agreement, who shall be resident of this state, and author
izing such agent or agents for such party or parties to admit such service of
process or summons upon him or them, and agreeing that the service of pro
cess or summons upon such agent or agents shall be valid and binding upon
such party or parties.
Record.— Such agreement shall designate such agent or agents, and the
place of residence of such agent or agents, and shall be recorded in the office
of the secretary of state, in a book to be provided for that purpose, and he
shall bo entitled to demand and receive, for the liling and recording thereof,
and of any revocation thereof, a fee of lifteen cents for each folio of one hun
dred words contained therein.
Service. — Service of process or summons, or of any writ or notice in such
action, shall be made upon the person or persons so designated as such agent
or agents, in the manner provided by law for the service of process upon per
sons residing in the state, and shall be held and deemed a valid and effectual
service thereof upon such owner or claimant in like manner, and shall have
the same effect in all respects as if served personally upon such owner or
claimant within the state; but where such party in the action appears by his
attorney therein, the service of papers shall be upon the attorney instead of
the party, as by law provided.
Evidence. — The original record of such agreement, or a duly certified
copy of such record thereof, shall be deemed and taken to be sufficient evi
dence thereof; and no service by publication of summons in such action shall
be made upon any person or persons, co-partnership or corporation, non
resident of this state, who shall have made and had recorded such agreement
in accordance with the provisions hereof, while the same shall remain in force
and unrevoked.
Prior action. — Provided, that no agreement made under the provisions
of this act shall in anywise affect any action or proceeding commenced prior
to the taking effect thereof. \
Revocation.— And provided further, that such owner or claimant may at
any time revoke or amend any such agreement made by him or them; but
such revocation shall in no wise affect any action or proceeding which shall
have been commenced prior to the recording of such revocation, which shall
be executed, acknowledged, and recorded in like manner as hereinbefore pro
vided in respect to the original agreement.
Act not to apply.—Provided further, that this act, or anything therein
contained, shall not apply to nor in anywise affect any action or proceeding
for the collection of any tax, general or special.
1877, ch. 88: "An act to provide for the service of process upon non-resident parties in
actions respecting real estate." Approved March 3d.
Service by Publicatk n.
Sec. 4753. When.— "When the defendant cannot be found within the
state — of which the return of the sheriff of the county in which the action is
brought, that the defendant cannot be found in the county, is prima facie
evidence,* and upon the filing of an affidavit of the plaintiff, his a^ent or at
torney, with the clerk of the court, stating that he believes that the defend
ant is not a resident of the state, or cannot be found therein, and that he has
deposited a copy of the summons in the post-office, directed to the defendant
at his place of residence — unless it is stated in the affidavit that such residence
is not known to the affiant — and stating the existence of one of the cases
hereinafter specified,* the service may be made by publication of the sum
mons by the plaintiff or his attorney in either of the following cases:
First. When the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has property
within this state.
Second. When the defendant, being a resident of this state, has departed
therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a
summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with like intent.
Third. When the defendant is not a resident of the state, but has property
therein, f and the court has jurisdiction of the subject of the action.
Fourth. When the action is for divorce, in the cases prescribed by law. 3*
Fifth. When the subject of the action is real or personal property in this
state, and the defendant has or claims a lien or interest actual or contingent-therein,
or the relief demanded consists wholly or partly in excluding the de-^<
fendant from any interest or lien therein. /fO
Sixth. When the action is to foreclose a mortgage, or to enforce a lien o^/
any kind, on real estate in the county where the action is brought. -3
"and.
the action arises on contract J' 5 M. 307; 10 M. 300, 3SHL; 23 M. 539; 26 M. 422; 9 M. 329; 37
M. 195; 38 N. W. 089. 3-J AO***, jr~/iZ*U- 4KH. 7-t, O -
Sec. 4754. How made. — The publication shall be made in a newspaper
printed and published in the county where the action is brought, and if there
is no such newspaper in the county,* then in a newspaper printed and pub
lished in an adjoining county,* and if there is no such newspaper in an adjoin
ing county, then in a newspaper printed and published at the capital of the
state, once in each week for six consecutive weeks; and the service of the sum
mons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed for
publication as aforesaid.
Sec. 4755. Same — In what paper. — The publication of legal notices,
public statements, tax lists, or official proceedings, required by law or by an
order of a judge or court to be published in a newspaper once in each week for
a specified number of weeks, shall be made on the day of each week in which
such newspaper is publislied,f if a weekly newspaper, and if a daily news
paper, then upon some day on which such daily newspaper is published — not
Sunday — and shall always be upon the same day of the week that it was
first published;* and all such publications shall be made in the English lan
guage, and shall not be made or published in any newspaper unless said news
paper shall have been published and circulated in the county where said notice,
statement, tax list, or official proceeding is to be published, for at least one (1)
year next preceding the date of the first publication thereof: provided, that if
no newspaper has been previously published in said county for one (1) year,
as above required, then the same ma}r be published in any newspaper of gen
eral circulation in said county* which has been published in said county for
less than one (1) year, if there be one, but if there be neither, then in any
newspaper published at the capital of the state, having a general circulation
in the state.
" public
statements, tax lists or official proceedings," which was inserted by acts 1887, oh. 42, and also
added matter between * *. Acts 1889 inserted matter between \ *. See ante, S§ 247, 248, 249.
6 M. 192; 21 M. 142; 28 M. 370.
Sec. 4756. Same — Re-opening judgment.— If the summons is not per
sonally served on the defendant, in the cases provided in the last two sections,
he or his representatives, on application and sufficient cause shown, at any time
before judgment, shall be allowed to defend the action; and, except in an
action for divorce, the defendant or his representatives may in like manner be
allowed to defend after judgment, and within one year after the rendition
of such judgment, on such terms as may be just; and if the defense is success
ful, and the judgment, or any part thereof, has been collected or otherwise
enforced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court directs.
Sec. 4757. How made.— Proof of the service of the summons, and of the
complaint or notice, if any, accompanying the same, shall be as follows:
First. If served by the sheriff or other officer, his certificate thereof; or, if
by another person, his affidavit; or,
Second. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer or his foreman,
showing the same, and an affidavit of the deposit of a copy of the summons
in the post-office, if the same has been deposited; or,
Third. The written admission of the defendant.
In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certificate, affidavit or
admission shall state the time, place, and manner of service.
Sec 4758. Manner — Effect. — A defendant appears in an action when
he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintiff written notice of his appearance;
after appearance, a defendant is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceed
ings; but when a defendant has not appeared, service of notices or papers, in
the ordinary proceedings in an action, need not be made upon him.
Sec. 4759. Same — Demand assessment of amount due. — A de
fendant who has appeared, may, without answering, demand in writing an
assessment of damages, or of the amount which the plaintiff is entitled, to re
cover; and thereupon such assessment shall be had, or any such amount ascer
tained, in such manner as the court on application may direct, and judgment
entered by the clerk for the amount so assessed or ascertained.
Sec. 4760. From service of summons.— From the time of the service
of the summons in a civil action, the court is deemed to have acquired juris
diction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary
appearance of a defendant is equivalent to a personal service of the summons
upon him.
Sec 4761. On natural person. — No natural person is subject to the juris
diction of a court of this state, unless he appears in the court, or is found within
the state, or is served with process therein, or is a resident thereof, or has
property therein upon which the plaintiff has acquired a lien by attachment
or garnishment, and then only to the extent of such property, except in cases
where it is otherwise expressly provided by statute.
Sec. 4762. On corporations.— No corporation is subject to the jurisdic
tion of a court of this state, unless it appears in the court, or has been created
by or under the laws of this state, or has an agency established therein for
the transaction of some portion of its business, or has property therein upon
which the plaintiff has acquired a lien by attachment or garnishment, and, in
the last case, only to the extent of such property at the time the jurisdiction
■attached.
Sec. 4763. Eegulated by statute.— The forms of proceedings in civil
actions, and the rules by which the sufficiency of pleadings is to be determined,
shall be regulated by statute.
Sec 4764. Pleadings to be used— The only pleadings on the part of
the plaintiff are:
First. The complaint;
Second. The demurrer or reply.
And on the part of the defendant:
First. Demurrer;
Second. The answer.
Sec. 4765. Defined. — The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is the
complaint.
Sec. 4766. Contents. — The complaint shall contain:
First. The title of the cause, specifying the court in which the action is
brought, the county in which the action is brought, and the names of the par
ties to the action, plaintiff and defendant;
Second. A plain and concise statement of tho facts constituting a cause of
action, without unnecessary repetition;
Third. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff supposes himself
entitled. If the recovery of money is demanded, the amount thereof shall be
stated.
Sec 4767. Grounds of.— The defendant may demur to the complaint
within twenty days after the service thereof, when it appears upon the face
thereof, either:
First. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant or
the subject of the action;
Second. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue;
Third. That there is another action pending between the same parties for
the same cause;
Fourth. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant;
Fifth. That several causes of action are improperly united;
Sixth. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
" within thirty
days after notice of the filing thereof" and inserted "within twenty days after the service
thereof."
Sec 476S. Specify the grounds. — The demurrer shall distinctly specify
the grounds of objection to the complaint; unless it do so, it may be disre
garded. It may be taken to the whole complaint, or to any of the causes of
action stated therein.
Sec. 4769. When proper. — When any of the matters enumerated in sec
tion seventy-four do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection
may be taken by answer.
Sec 4770. When waived.— If no such objection is taken, either by de
murrer or answer, the defendant is deemed to have waived the same, except
ing only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that
tho complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Sec 4771. Contents The answer of the defendant shall contain:
First. A denial of each allegation of the complaint controverted by the
defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a
belief :
222
Second. A statement of any new matter constituting a defence or counter
claim, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition;
Third. All equities existing at the time of the commencement of any action,
in. favor of a defendant therein, or discovered to exist after such commence
ment, or intervening before a final decision in such action. And if the same
are admitted by the plaintiff, or the issue thereon is determined in favor of
the defendant, he shall be entitled to such relief, equitable or otherwise, as the
nature of the case demands, by judgment or otherwise.
Sec. 4772. Several defenses. — The defendant may set forth by answer
as many defenses and counteVclaims as he has; they shall each be separately
stated, and refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer,
in such manner that they may be intelligibly distinguished; the defendant
may also demur to one or more of several causes of action in the complaint,
and answer the residue.
Sec. 4773. Counterclaim. — The counterclaim mentioned in the last sec
tion must be an existing one in favor of a defendant, and against a plaintiff,
between whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and arising out
of one of the following causes of action:
•First. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set forth
in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintiff's claim, or connected with
the subject of the action;
Second. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action, arising
also on contract, and existing at the commencement of the action.
Sec. 4774. Same — Not an admission.— The pleading of a set-off or
counterclaim by a defendant in any action, in any of the courts of this state,
shall not be held or construed to be an admission of any cause of action on
the part of plaintiff against such defendant.
1883, ch. 101 : " An act in relation to counterclaims and offsets." Approved February 8,
1883.
Sec. 4775. An answer in action to recover property distrained —
In an action, to recover the possession of property distrained doing damage,
an answer that the defendant, or person by whose command he acted, was
lawfully possessed of the real property upon which the distress was made, and
that the property distrained was, at the time, doing damage thereon, shall be
good, without setting forth the title to such real property..
Sec 4776. When to reply. — When the answer contains new matter,*
the plaintiff shall within twenty days reply to such new matter, denying each
allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof
sufficient to form a belief, and he may allege in ordinary and concise language,
without repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, con
stituting a defense to such new matter in the answer, or he may demur to an
answer containing new matter when upon its face it does not constitute a
counterclaim or defense, and the plaintiff may demur to one or more of such,
defenses or counterclaims, and reply to the residue in the answer, f
" constituting a counterclaim," and at \ substituted "answer "for " counterclaim," and re
duced number of days from thirty to twenty. 1 M. 408 ; 34 M. 244 ; 25 M. 157.
Sec. 4777. Failure to reply. — If the answer contains new matter * and
the plaintiff fails to reply or demur thereto within the time allowed by law,
the defendant may move on notice for such judgment as he may be entitled
to upon such statement, and the court may thereupon render judgment, or
order a reference or assessment of damages by jury as the case requires.
" constituting a counterclaim." 20 M. 234; 22 M. 132; 33 M. 514.
Sec 4778. Demurrer to reply. — If a reply to any * new matter set up
in the answer is insufficient, the defendant may demur thereto stating the
ground thereof.
"counterclaim " at * and inserted " new matter set up in the answer."
General Roles of Pleading.
Sec. 4779. Pleadings to be liberally construed.— In the construction
of a pleading for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.
Sec 4780. Time, how computed.— The time within which an act is to
be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
If the last day is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
Sec 4781. Allegations not controverted.— Every material allegation
of the complaint not specificalty controverted by the answer as prescribed,
and every material allegation of new matter in the answer* not controverted
by the reply as prescribed, shall for the purposes of the action be taken as
true, but the allegation of new matter f in a reply is to be deemed controverted
by the defendant, who may on the trial controvert it by proofs either in direct
denial or by way of avoidance.
" and at f " in the answer not relating to a counterclaim or of new
matter in a reply is to be deemed controverted by the adverse party as upon a direct denial or
avoidance, as the case may require." 2 M. 248; 10 M. 136; 15 M."288; 20 M. 234; 21 M. 366,
421 ; 22 M. 132, 541.
Sec 4782. Supplemental pleadings — The plaintiff and defendant, re
spectively, may be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint, an
swer or reply, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the former
complaint, answer or reply.
Sec 4783. Subscribed and verified. — Every pleading in a court of
record shall be subscribed by the attorney of the party; and when any plead
ing in a case is verified, all subsequent pleadings, except demurrers, shall be
verified also.
Sec 4784. Verification — The verification shall be to the effect that the
same is true to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to those
matters stated on his information and belief, and as to those matters that he
believes it to be true, and shall be made by the party, or, if there are several
parties united in interest and pleading together, by one at least of such par
ties acquainted with the facts, if such party is within the county where the
attorney resides, and capable of making the affidavit. The verification may
also be made by the agent or attorney, if the part}' making such pleading
is absent from the county where the attorney resides, or for some cause is
unable to verify it; and shall be to the effect that the same is true to the
best of his knowledge, information and belief. When a corporation is a
party, the verification maybe made by any officer thereof; and when the
state or any officer thereof in its behalf is a party, the verification may be
made by the attorney general. The verification may be omitted when an ad
mission of the truth of the allegation might subject the party to prosecution
for felony.
Sec. 4785. Filed and entered in court— The pleadings and various
bonds required to be given by statute, and the affidavits and other written
proceedings in an action, shall be filed or entered in court, or with the clerk
thereof, unless the court expressly provide for a different disposition thereof;
except that the bonds provided for by this chapter, on the claim and delivery
of personal property, shall, after the justification of the sureties, be delivered
by the sheriff to the parties respectively for whose benefit they are taken.
*\Each party shall, on or before the second day of the term for which any
cause is noticed, file his pleadings in the office of the clerk of the court.
" no copies of any
pleading need be served on tiie adverse party, but the clerk shall furnish copies on application
and payment of his fees," and was repealed by acts 1867, ch. 62.
Sec. 4786. Sham and frivolous pleadings Sham, irrelevant or frivo
lous answers, defences or replies and frivolous demurrers, may be stricken out,
or judgment rendered notwithstanding the same, on motion, as for want of
an answer.
"or
frivolous" before answers, and "or replies" after defenses. 2 M. 219, 319; 13 M. 55, 158, 165;
17 M. 22.
Sec. 4787. Irrelevant, redundant and indefinite pleadings If
irrelevant or redundant matter is inserted in a pleading, it may be stricken out
on motion ; and when a pleading is double, or does not conform to the statute,
or when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the
precise nature of the charge or defence is not apparent, the court may strike
it out on motion, or require it to be amended.
Sec. 4788. Pleading performance of conditions precedent.— In
pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it shall not be
necessary to state the facts showing such performance, but it may be stated,
generally, that the part}' duly performed all the conditions on his part ; and if
such allegation is controverted, the party pleading is bound to establish, on
the trial, the facts showing such performance.
Sec. 47S9. Pleading judgments ■ In pleading a judgment or other der
termination of a court or oiticer of special or general jurisdiction, it shall not
be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or
determination may be stated to have been duly given or made. *In cases of
special jurisdiction," if such allegation is controverted, the party pleading is
bound to establish on the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.
Sec 4790. Pleading ordinance.— It shall not be necessary in any plead
ing or complaint in civil or criminal proceedings for a violation of any ordi
nance of any city or village in this state, to set out or recite such ordinance or
any section thereof at large. But it shall be sufficient in all such pleadings or
complaints, to state that the offence set forth in such complaint was committed
contrary to the form of such ordinance or of any specified section thereof.
1881, Ex. S. ch. 59: "An act relating to the manner of pleading city and village ordi
nances in civil and criminal proceedings thereunder." Approved November 17, 1881.
Sec, 4791. Pleading private statute. — In pleading a private statute, or
a right derived therefrom, it is sufficient to refer to such statute by its title,
and the day of its approval, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice
thereof.
Sec 4792. Pleading an account.—It is not necessary for a party to
set forth, in a pleading, the items of an account therein alleged; but he shall
deliver to the adverse party, within ten clays after a demand thereof, in
writing, a copy of the account verified by his own oath, or that of his agent
or attorney, if within the personal knowledge of such agent or attorney, to
the effect that he believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence
thereof. The court, or judge thereof, may order a further or more particular
bill.
Sec 4793. In slander or libel. — In an action for libel or slander, it
shall not be necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the
purpose of showing the application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter
out of which the cause of action arose; but it shall be sufficient to state, gen
erally, that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintiff; and
if such allegation is controverted, the plaintiff is bound to establish, on trial,
that it was so published or spoken.
Sec 4794. Same — Justification — Mitigating circumstances. — In
the action mentioned in the last section, the defendant may, in his answer,
allege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigat
ing circumstances to reduce the amount of damages; and whether he proves
the justification or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.
Sec 4795. Libel — Requirements before suit.— Before any suit shall
be brought for the publication of a libel in any newspaper in this state, the
aggrieved party shall, at least three days before filing or serving the com
plaint in such suit, serve notice on the publisher or publishers of said news
paper at their principal office of publication, specifying the statements in the
said articles which he or they allege to be false and defamatory, if it shall
appear, on the trial of said action, that the said article was published in good
faith, that its falsity was due to mistake or misapprehension of the facts and
that a full and fair retraction of any statement therein alleged to be errone
ous was published in the next regular issue of such newspaper, or f in case of
daily papers within three (3) days after such mistake or misapprehension was
brought to the knowledge of such publisher or publishers, in as conspicuous a
place and type in such newspaper as was the article complained of as libel
ous, then the plaintiff in sucli case shall recover only actual damages. Pro
vided, however, that the provisions of this act shall not apply to the case of
any libel against any candidate for a public office in this state, unless the re
traction of the charge is made editorially in a conspicuous manner at least
three days before the election, *in case such libelous article was published in
a daily paper; and in case such libelous article was published in a weekly
paper at least ten days before the election. Provided, that nothing in the
provisions of this act shall be held to apply to any libel published of or con
cerning any female.
Sec. 4796. Corporation. — In actions by or against corporations, * do
mestic or foreign, it shall in any pleading be a sufficient allegation that the
plaintiff or defendant is a corporation, to aver substantially that the plaintiff
or defendant, as the case may be, is a corporation duly organized and created
under the laws of the state, territory or government by which it may have
been incorporated.
"created by or under the laws of this state, it is sufficient to refer,
in the complaint or answer, to the act of incorporation or the proceedings by which such cor
poration was created." 14 M. 49.
Sec. 4797. Same — Proof. — In all actions brought by or against a corpo
ration, it shall not be necessary to prove on the trial of the cause the exist
ence of such corporation, unless the defendant shall in his answer expressly
aver that the plaintiff or defendant is not a corporation.
1876, ch. 32, g 1 : " An act in reference to pleadings and evidence in certain civil actions."
Approved February 23, 1876. 31 M. 444 ; 28 M. 398.
Sec. 4798. Copartnership. — In all actions brought by any persons as co
partners, upon any contract, verbal or written, made or entered into by or
between the defendant and the plaintiff as copartners, it shall not be necessary
to prove on the trial of the cause that the persons named as plaintiffs were, at
the time of making such contract, or any time subsequent thereto, the persons
composing such copartnership, unless the defendant shall in his answer ex
pressly deny that the persons named as plaintiffs are or were such copartners.
1876, ch. 32, § 2.
Sec 4799. Denial of incorporation or copartnership.— In all actions
herein named, an averment in the answer, upon information and belief, shall
not be construed as an express averment that the plaintiff or defendant is not
a corporation, or that the plaintiffs are or were not copartners.
1876, ch. 32, g 4. Section 3 of this act, placed in ch. —, provided that the production in evi
dence of the written instrument for the payment of money, executed by corporation, or co
partners, or indorsers, shall be prima facie evidence of the existence of tiie corporation or
copartnership. 28 M. 398.
Mistakes and Amendments.
Sec. 4800. Errors not affecting substantial rights.— The court shall,
in every stage of an action, disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or
proceedings which does not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party;
and no judgment can be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.
6. S. ch. 66, § 107 (127). 10 M. 423; 12 M. 437, 522; 14 M. 464.
Sec 4801. Amendments of course, and after demurrer Any
pleading may be once amended by the part}', of course, without costs, and
without prejudice to the proceedings already had, at any time before the period
for answering it expires; or, if it does not delay the trial, it may be so amended
at any time within twenty days after service of the answer, demurrer or reply
to such pleading; in such case the amended pleading shall be served on the
adverse party, who shall have twenty days to answer the same. After the de
cision of the demurrer, the court may, in its discretion, if it appears that the
demurrer was interposed in good faith, allow the part}' demurring to with
draw the same and plead over, or, if the demurrer is sustained, may allow the
pleading demurred to to be amended, on such terms as may be just.
Sec. 4802. Material variance. — No variance between the allegation in
the pleading and the proof is material, unless it has actually misled the ad
verse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defence upon the
merits. "Whenever it is alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact
shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and it shall be shown in what
respect he has been misled; and thereupon the court may ordor the pleading
to be amended upon such terms as may be just.
Sec. 4S03. Immaterial variance.— When the variance is not material,
as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found
according to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment, without
costs.
Sec. 4S05. Amendment by court.— The court may, before or after
judgment, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper,
amend any pleading, process or proceeding, by adding or striking out the
name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, a mis
take in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the
case, or, when the amendment does not change substantially the claim or de
fence, by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the fact proved.
Sec 4806. Same — Extend time — Set aside judgments — The court
may likewise, in its discretion, allow an answer or reply to be made, or other
act to be done, after the time limited by this chapter, or by an order enlarge
such time.
Relief from judgments.— And may also, in its discretion, at any time
within one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order, or
other proceeding, taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, sur
prise, or excusable neglect.
In vacation. — *And the court may, as well in vacation and out of term
as in term, and without regard to whether such judgment or order was made
and entered, or proceedings had, in or out of term, upon good cause shown,
set aside or modify its judgments, orders or proceedings, although the same
were made or entered by the court, or under or by virtue of its authority,
order or direction,* and may suppl\T an}r omission in any proceeding.
Conform to statute. — And whenever an}' proceeding taken by a party
fails to conform to the statute, the court may permit an amendment to such
proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto; but this section does not
apply to a linal judgment in an action for divorce.
Relief not to affect title. —Provided, however, that no relief to be granted
hereunder shall operate to atfect any title to or estate in real estate affected
by such judgment as against a bona lido purchaser or encumbrancer in any
case where such judgment or a certified copy thereof shall have been of rec
ord in the ollice of the register of deeds of the county wherein such real estate
is situated for a period of not less than three j'ears prior to the date of the
application for such relief; but nothing herein contained shall operate to pre
vent the granting of such relief as may be just and equitable against a party
to such action, his heirs or devisees.
Sec. 4807. In writing. — Notices shall be in writing; and notices and
other papers may be served on the party or attorney in the manner prescribed
in the next three sections, where not otherwise provided by statute.
Sec. 4808. Service. — The service may be personal or by delivery to the
party or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as
follows :
First. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his
office, by leaving the papers with his clerk therein, or with a person having
charge thereof; or, when there is no person in the office, by leaving it, between
the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a conspicuous
place in the office; or if it is not open so as to admit of such service, then by
leaving it at the attorney's residence, with some person of suitable age and
discretion.
Second. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the papers at his resi
dence, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, with
some person of suitable age and discretion.
Sec 4809. Same.—"Where a plaintiff or defendant who has appeared resides
out;of the state, and has no attorney in the action, the service may be made by
mail, if his residence is known ; if not known, on the clerk for him. But where
a party, whether resident or non-resident, has an attorney in the action, the
service of papers shall be upon the attorney instead of the party.* But if the
attorney shall have removed from the state, such service may be made upon
him personalty, either within or without the state, or by mail to him at his
place of residence, if known, and if not known, then by mail upon the party,
if his residence is known, whether within or without the state. And if the
residence of neither the party or attorney are known, the service may be
made on the clerk for the attorney.
" whether resident or non-resident." 32 M. 445.
Sec. 4810. By mail. — Service by mail may be made, when the person
making the service, and the person on whom it is to be made, reside in different
places, between which there is a regular communication by mail.
Sec. 4811. Manner of. — In case of service by mail, the paper shall be
deposited in the post-office, addressed to the person on whom it is served, at
his place of residence, and the postage paid ; and in such case, the time of
service shall be double that required in case of personal service.
Sec 4812. Limitation. — The provisions of the four preceding sections do
not apply to the service of a summons or other process, or of any paper to
bring a party into contempt.
Sec 4813. Sufficiency of. — A notice or other paper is valid and effectual,
though the title of the action in which it is made is omitted, or it is defective
either in respect to the court or parties, if it intelligently refers to such action
or proceeding; and in furtherance of justice, upon proper terms, any other
defect or error in any notice or other paper or proceeding may be amended
by the court, and any mischance, omission or defect relieved, within one year
thereafter; and the court may enlarge or extend the time, for good cause
shown, within which by statute any act is to be done, proceeding had ortaken,
notice or paper filed or served; or may, on such terms as are just, permit
the same to be done or supplied after the time therefor has expired, except
that the time for bringinga writ of error or appeal shall in no case be enlarged,
or a party be permitted to bring such writ of error or appeal after the time
therefor has expired.
Sec 4814. Order defined. — Every direction of a court or judge, made
or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an
order.
1867, ch. 67, § 1 : " An act in relation to motions and orders." Approved March 7, 1867.
Sec. 4815. Motion defined. — An application for an order is a motion.
1867, ch. 67, § 2.
Sec. 4S16. Notice of motion.— When a notice of a motion is necessary,
it must be served eight days before the time appointed for the hearing; but
the judge may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a shorter time.
1867, ch. 67, § 3.
Sec. 4S17. Regulated. — Motions must be made in the district in which
the action is pending, or in an adjoining district: provided, that no motion
shall be made in an adjoining district which shall require the hearing of such,
a motion at a greater distance from the county seat where the action is pend
ing, in which such motion is made, than the residence of the judge of the dis
trict, wherein such action is pending, from such county seat; * unless the place
where such motion is made, in such adjoining district, is nearer by direct
railway communication to said county seat than said residence of the judge
of the district is by such railway communication.*
Orders out of court.— Orders made out of court, and without notice,
may be made by any judge of a district court, at any place in the state; but
no order to stay proceedings for a longer time than twenty days shall be
made, except upon notice to the adverse party.
Motions in vacation.— Motions for judgment upon demurrer, or upon
the pleadings, may be made and determined in vacation.
Effect of order. — And when any motion is made in a district court other
than that in which the action is pending, the order, determination or judg
ment thereon is to be entered in the same manner, and have the same force
and effect as when made in and by the judge of the district, and in the county
in which the action is pending.
Demurrers.— Provided, that demurrers in civil actions may be brought
on for argument by either party at any time the court may rix for that pur
pose at chambers or at any regular or special term of court in any county in
the judicial district in which the action is pending.
1867, ch. 67, § 4, as amended 1881, ch. 7 (March 7); 1885, ch. 267 (February 5). Acts 1881 in
serted matter between * *. Acts 18f>5 added last proviso.
Consolidation and Interpleading.
Sec. 4818. When to be consolidated Whenever two or more actions
are pending at any time between the same parties, and in the same court,
upon causes of action which might have been joined, the court may order the
actions to be consolidated.
Sec. 4820. Same — Bji surety. — An action may be brought against two
or more persons, for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a debt due to
the other, for which the plaintiff is bound as surety.
Sec. 4821. When issues arise.— Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a
fact or conclusion of law is maintained by one party and controverted by the
other ; they are of two kinds :
First. — Of law; and,
Second. — Of fact.
Sec. 4822. Issues of law. — An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to
the complaint, answer or reply.
Sec. 4823. Same — How tried — An issue of law shall be tried by the
court, unless it is referred as provided by the statute relating to referees.
Sec. 4824. Issues of fact. — An issue of fact arises:
First. — Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the
answer; or,
Second. — Upon new matter in the answer, controverted by the reply ; or,
Third. — Upon new matter in the reply, except when an issue of law is
joined thereon; issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different and
distinct parts of the pleadings in the same action.
Sec. 4825. Same — When to be tried by jury. — An issue of fact, in
an action for the recovery of money only, or of specific real or personal prop
erty, or for a divorce from the marriage contract on the ground of adultery,
shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived as provided by law, or a
reference ordered, as provided by statute relating to referees.
Sec. 4826. Same — When to be tried by court.— Every other issue of
fact shall be tried by the court, subject, however, to the right of the parties to
consent, or of the court to order, that the whole issue, or any specific question
of fact involved therein, be tried by a jury or referred.
Sec. 4827. Trial defined. — A trial is the judicial examination of the issues
between the parties, whether they are issues of law or of fact.
Sec. 4828. Notice of trial. — At any time after issue, and at least eight
days before the term, either party may give notice of trial; and the party
giving the notice shall furnish the clerk, at least seven days before the term,
with a note of issue, containing the title of the action, the names of the attor
neys, and the time when the last pleading was served; and the clerk shall
thereupon enter the cause upon the calendar according to the date of the
issue. The cause once placed upon the calendar of a term, if not tried at the
term for which the notice was given, need not be noticed for a subsequent
term, but shall remain upon the calendar from term to term, until finally dis
posed of *or stricken off by the court. The party upon whom notice of trial
is served may also file the note of issue, and cause the action to be placed
upon the calendar, without further notice on his part.
Sec 4829. Calendar.— The issues on the calendar shall be disposed of in
the following order, unless, for the convenience of parties, or the dispatch of
business, the court otherwise directs:
First. — Issues of fact, to be tried by a jury;
Second. — Issues of fact, to be tried by the court;
Third. — Issues of law.
Sec. 4830. Continuance.— A motion to postpone a trial for the absence
of evidence can only be made upon affidavit, stating the evidence expected to
be obtained, and showing its materiality, and that due diligence has been
used to procure it. *And if the adverse party thereupon admit that such
evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the
trial, or offered and overruled us improper, the trial must not be postponed.
Sec. 4S31. Either party may bring cause to trial Either party,
after the notice of trial, whether given by himself or by the adverse party,
may bring the issue to trial, and, in the absence of the adverse party, unless
the court for good cause otherwise directs, may proceed with his case, and
take a dismissal of the action, or a verdict or judgment, as the case may
require.
Sec. 4832. Separate trial, when — A separate trial between the plaintiff
and any of several defendants may be allowed by the court, whenever, in its
opinion, justice will be thereby promoted.
Sec. 4S33. Tender in actions for torts.— When, in an action to recover
damages for the commission of a tort, the defendant shall, at any time before
the trial of such action, tender to the plaintiff a sum of money as damages or
compensation for such tort, and, if such tender be made after the commence
ment of the action, in addition to such tender for damages or compensation,
he shall also tender the costs and disbursements of the plaintiff then accrued,
and the plaintiff in such action shall not recover a greater sum than the
amount so tendered, the plaintiff shall recover no costs or disbursements, but
shall pay the defendant's costs and disbursements. The fact of such tender
having been made shall not be pleaded, nor given in evidence to the court or
jury.
1877, ch. 119, § 1 : " An act regulating costs and disbursements in certain civil actions." Ap
proved March 6, 1877.
Sec. 4834. Same — Effect. — In all such actions, when such tender shall
be made, and the plaintiff fails to recover a greater sum than the amount of
such tender, if the amount of such recovery, and the costs and disbursements
accrued and tendered, exceed the amount of the defendant's costs and dis
bursements, the court shall enter judgment against the defendant for such
excess. If the amount of the defendant's costs and disbursements exceed the
amount recovered tjy the plaintiff, and his costs and disbursements accrued
and tendered, the court shall enter judgment against the plaintiff for such
excess.
1877, ch. 119, § 2.
Sec 4835. Offer of judgment — Effect.— The defendant may, at any
time before the trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintiff' an offer to allow
judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property, to the effect therein
specified, with costs. It the plaintiff accepts the offer, and gives notice thereof,
within ten days, he may file the offer, with an affidavit of notice of accept
ance, and the clerk shall thereupon enter judgment accordingly; if the notice
of acceptance is not given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot
be given in evidence; and if the plaintiff fails to obtain a more favorable
judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay costs to the defendant.
a S. ch. 66, § 241 (259). 12 M. 186; 23 M. 61, 71 j 38 M. 27.
Trial by Jdey.
Sec 4836. How impannelled.— When the action is called for trial by
jury, the clerk shall draw from the jury-box the ballots containing the names
of jurors, until the jury is completed, or the ballots are exhausted; if the
ballots become exhausted before the jury is completed, the sheriff, under the
direction of the court, shall summon from the b^vstanders or the body of the
county so many qualified persons as are necessary to complete the jury.
Sec 4837. Ballots. — When the jury is completed and sworn, the ballots
containing the names of the jurors sworn shall be laid aside till the jury so
sworn is discharged, and then they shall be returned to the box; and every
ballot drawn, containing the name of a juror not so sworn, shall be returned
to the box as soon as the jury is completed.
Sec. 4838. Challenge. — Either party may challenge the jurors; but when
there are several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before it
oan be made. The challenges are to the panel and individual jurors as in
criminal actions, and the causes for challenges shall be the same as in criminal
actions: provided, however, that there can be but three peremptory challenges
on each side.
Sec 4839. Jury fee before sworn.— Before the jury is sworn, the
plaintiff shall pay to the clerk three dollars as a jury fee, which shall be im
mediately paid by the clerk to the treasurer of the county.
Sec. 4840. Order of the trial. — "When the jury is completed and sworn,
the trial shall proceed in the following order, unless the court, for special
reasons, otherwise directs:
First. The plaintiff, after stating the issue, shall open the case, and produce
the evidence on his part;
Second. The defendant may then open his defence, and offer his evidence
in support thereof ;
Third. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting evidence only,
unless the court, for good reason, in furtherance of justice, permit them to
offer evidence upon their original case;
Fourth. . When the evidence is concluded, unless the case is submitted to
the jury on either side, or on both sides, without argument, the defendant
shall commence, and the plaintiff conclude, the argument to the jury;
Fifth. If several defendants, having separate defences, appear by different
counsel, the court shall determine their relative order in the evidence and ar
gument;
Sixth. The court may then charge the jury.
Sec. 4841. Instructions for jury. — Upon the trial of any civil action
before a jury in any district or municipal court of this state, any party thereto
having an interest in the result of such trial may, before the commencement
of the argument to the jury, tender to the court instructions in writing, prop
erly numbered, to be given to the jury, and require the court to indicate before
the argument such as will be given, by writing opposite each the words
"given," "given as modified bj' the court" or "refused." And if the court
desires, it may hear argument thereon by the respective counsel before acting
on the instructions tendered. And thereupon, during the argument to the
jury, any instructions so indicated to be given, may be read to the jur}' as the
law of the case; and the court shall give the same to the jury as the law when
such jury is instructed by the court. And the court may of its own motion
and shall upon application of either party, also before the commencement of
the argument, lay before the parties any instructions properly numbered which
it will give to the jury; and thereupon the same may be read by any one as
the law while making an argument to the jury; provided, however, the court
may give to the jury such other instructions, with those already approved, at
the" close of the argument, as may be necessary to full}' present the law to the
jury and secure the ends of justice.
Sec. 4842. View of premises. — Whenever, in the opinion of the court,
it is proper that the jury should have a view of real property which is the sub
ject of the litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it
may order the jury to be conducted in a body, in the custody of proper offi
cers, to the place, which will be shown to them by the judge, or by a person
appointed by the court for that purpose; while the jury are thus absent, no
person, other than the judge or person so appointed, shall speak to them on
any subject connected with the trial.
Sec 4843. Sick juror.— If, after the impanelling of the jury, and before
a verdict, a juror becomes sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the
court may order him to be discharged ; in that case, a new juror ma}' be sworn,
and the trial begin anew, or the juror may be discharged, and a new jury then
or afterward impanelled.
Sec 4844. What papers jury may take.— Upon retiring for delibera
tion, the jury may take with them all papers (except depositions) which have
been received as evidence in the cause, or copies of such parts of public records
or private documents, given in evidence, as ought not, in the opinion of the
court, to be taken from the person having them in possession; and they may
also take with them notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on the trial,
taken by themselves or any of them, but none taken by any other person.
Sec 4S45. Food for jury, 'When. — If, while the jury are kept together,
either during the progress of the trial, or after their retirement for delibera
tion, the court orders them to be provided with suitable and sufficient food
and lodging, they shall be so provided by the sheriff, at the expense of the
county.
Sec 4846. Polling the jury— "When a verdict is rendered, and before
it is recorded, the jury may bo polled, on the request of either party, for
which purpose each juror must be asked whether it is his verdict; if any one
answers in the negative, the jury shall be sent out for further deliberation.
If the verdict is informal or insufficient, it may be corrected by the jury
under the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out.
Sec 4847. Court always open to receive. — While the jury are absent,
the court may adjourn from time to time, in respect to other business; but it
is, nevertheless, to be deemed open for every purpose connected with the
cause submitted to the jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged.
A final adjournment of the court discharges the jury.
Sec 4848. Receiving and entering verdict.— When the verdict is
given, and is such as the court may receive, the clerk shall immediately record
it in full in the minutes, and read it to the jury, and inquire of them whether
it is their verdict; if any juror disagrees, the fact shall be entered in the
minutes, and the jury again sent out; but if no disagreement is expressed, the
verdict is complete, and the jury shall be discharged from the case.
Sec. 4849. Entry or stay of judgment. — TJpon receiving a verdict, an
entry shall be made in the minutes of the court, specifying the time and place
of trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and either the
judgment to be rendered thereon, or an order that the case be reserved for
argument or further consideration; or the judge trying the cause may, in hisdiscretion,
and upon such terms as shall be just, stay the entry of judgment
and further proceedings, until the hearing and final decision of a motion for a
new trial, or in arrest of judgment, or for judgment notwithstanding the
verdict, or to set aside the verdict, or dismiss the action.
Sec 4850. General or special verdict. — The verdict of a jury is
either general or special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce
generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintiff or de
fendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only,
leaving the judgment to the court; it shall present the conclusions of fact, as
established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them; and those
conclusions of fact shall be so presented as that nothing remains to the court,
but to draw from them conclusions of law.
Sec. 4851. Same — When to be rendered In every action for the
recovery of money only, or specific real property, the jury, in their discretion,
may render a general or special verdict; in all other cases, the court may
direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing, upon all or any of the issues,
and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to find
upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a
written finding thereon. The special verdict or finding shall be filed with the
clerk, and entered upon the minutes.
Sec. 4852. Same — Special controls general verdict Where a
special finding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former con
trols the latter, and the court shall give judgment accordingly.
Sec. 4853. "Verdict in action to recover specific personal prop
erty. — In an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if the
property has not been delivered to the plaintiff, and the jury find that he is
entitled to a recovery thereof, or if the property is not in the possession of the
defendant, and by his answer he claims a return thereof, and the verdict is in
his favor, the jury shall assess the value of the property, and the damages, if
any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has
sustained by reason of the detention, or taking and withholding such property.
Whenever the verdict is in favor of the party having possession of the prop
erty, the value thereof shall not be found.
Sec. 4854. State amount of recovery.— When a verdict is found for
the plaintiff in an action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant
when a counterclaim for the recoverv of money is established beyond the
amount of the plaintiff's claim as established, the jury shall also assess the
amount of the recovery.
Sec. 4855. Rate of damages.— Whenever damages are recoverable, the
plaintiff may claim and recover any rate of damages to which he may be entitled for the cause of action established.
Sec. 4856. Treble damages, when.— Whoever shall carry off, use or
destroy any wood, timber, lumber, hay, grass, or other personal property of
233
another person, without lawful authority, shall be liable to the owner thereof
for treble the amount of damages which may be assessed therefor in a civil
action in any court having jurisdiction, except as provided in the next section.
1868, ch. 75. § 1: " An act to prevent trespassing upon personal property." Approved Feb
ruary 27th. 31 M. 542; 37 M. 518; 38 M. 150.
Sec. 4857. Same. — If, upon the trial of such action, it appears that the
defendant had probable cause to believe that the property so taken or carried
off was his own, or that of another person under whose direction the act was
done, judgment shall be given for single damages only, and costs of the
action.
1868, ch. 75, § 2. 37 M. 518; 88 M. 156.
Tkial by the Coubt.
Sec. 4858. When.— Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties
to an issue of fact in actions arising on contract, and with the assent of the
court in other actions, in the manner following:
First. — By failing to appear at the trial.
Second. — By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk.
Third. — By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
Sec. 4859. Provisions of trial by jury apply The provisions of this chapter respecting trials by jury apply, so far as they are in their nature ap
plicable, to trials by the court or referees.
Sec. 4800. Trials in vacation.— The judges of the several district courts
of this state may, with consent of parties, try issues of law and fact in vaca
tion, and decide such issues either in or out of term; and thereupon judgment
may be rendered, with the same effect as upon issues tried and determined in
term time.
1872, ch. 70: "An act in relation to trials of issues of fact in district courts." Approved
March 1, 1872.
Sec 4S61. Court always open.— In addition to the general terms the
district court is always open for the transaction of all f business; for the entry
of judgments, of decrees, of orders of course, and all such other orders as have
been granted by the court or judges, and for the hearing and determination
of all matters brought before the court or judge, except the trial of issues of
fact.
Special terms. — The judges of the several district courts may, by order,
appoint such special terms in the counties of their respective districts as may
be deemed necessary or convenient and at such terms all business hereinbefore
mentioned may be transacted.
Decision out of term. — When any matter is heard by the court or judge
the decision may be made out of term and such decision may be an order, or
a direction that an order or judgment or decree be entered, and upon filing in
the office of the clerk in the county where the action or proceeding is {lend
ing, the decision in writing, signed by the judge, an order or judgment or
decree, as the case may require, if any, shall be entered by such clerk in con
formity with such decision. *And when any order or decision shall be filed
in any cause the clerk of the court wherein it is filed shall immediately give
notice, in writing, by mail or personally, thereof, to the attorneys of record
in sucb cause, for which service such clerk shall receive a fee of fifteen cents
for each notice given. Provided that the notice so given shall not be con
strued as limiting the time of appeal or to take other proceedings on any such
order or decision.
Skc. 4862. Decision of court. — Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the
court, its decision shall be in writing; in giving the decision the facts found
and the conclusions of law shall be separately stated; judgment upon the de
cision shall be entered accordingly. *A11 questions of fact and law and all
motions and matters heretofore or which shall hereafter be submitted to a
judge for his decision or disposition shall be decided by him and his decision,
in writing filed with the clerk within ninety days after such submission, and
if not so decided within that time he shall not, after the expiration of said
ninety days, hear, try or determine any other action, motion or matter until
he has so decided everything submitted to him more than ninety days previ
ous thereto, except to award all writs and processes necessary to the perfect
exercise of the powers with which ho is vested and the due administration of
justice, and to modify, vacate or dissolve all such writs and processes. If
any judge shall fail for six months to decide any matter, cause or thing sub
mitted to him in the future after such submission without good reason there
for, and pressure of business shall not be regarded as a good reason, it shall
be just cause for complaint to the next legislature, which shall convene after
such failure to decide. Provided, that nothing herein contained shall apply
to any district wherein there is but one judge, and that sickness shall be a
sufficient excuse.
Section before amended except the words " and filed with the clerk within twenty days after
the term at which the trial took place," after the word writing. 3 M. 67, 83; 5 M. 294, 409; 11
M. 203; 31 M. 327 ; 38 M. 360.
Teial by Referee.
Sec. 4S63. Reference by consent. — Upon the agreement of the parties
to a civil action, or a proceeding of a civil nature, filed with the clerk or en
tered upon the minutes, a reference may be ordered:
First. To try any or all the issues in such action or proceeding, whether
of fact or law, (except an action for divorce,) and to report a judgment thereon ;
Second. To ascertain and report any fact in such action or special proceed
ing, or to take and report the evidence therein;
Third. That whenever, in the opinion of the presiding judge of a district
court in this state, a press of business makes the same advisable and neces
sary, such judge, counsel consenting thereto, may make an order referring
any civil action or proceeding of a civil nature (except an action for divorce)
to a referee for trial and judgment or for any one or more of the purposes
named in this title, and the fees of such a referee, after being taxed by the
judge making the order of reference, shall be paid on the order of said judge
out of the state treasury as salaries of state officers are now paid. Said judge
shall state as a part of said order of reference that in his opinion the press of
business makes such reference advisable.
Sec 4S64. Compulsory reference — "When the parties do not consent,
the court may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a
reference in the following cases:
First. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of a
long account on either side, in which case the referee may be directed to hear
and decide the whole issue, or to report upon any specific question of fact in
volved therein;
Second. "When the taking of an account is necessary for the information
of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect;
Third. "When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, arises, upon
motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action ; or,
Fourth. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a special
proceeding of a civil nature.
, G. S. ch. 66, § 229 (247). 35 M. 382; 19 M. 132.
Sec. 4865. Appointment of referees. — A reference may be ordered to
any person or persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties; or,
if the parties do not agree, the court or judge shall appoint one or more per
sons, not exceeding three, residents of any county in this state, and having
the qualification of electors.
Sec. 4866. Powers — Proceedings — Report The trial by referees
shall be conducted in the same manner, and on similar notice, as a trial by the
court. The}' shall have the same power to grant adjournments, and to allow
amendments to any pleadings, as the court upon such trial, upon the same
terms and with like effect. They shall have the same power to administer
oaths and enforce the attendance of witnesses as is possessed by the court.
They shall state the facts found and the conclusions of law separately, and
their decision shall be given, and may be excepted to and reviewed, in like
manner, but not otherwise; and they may in like manner settle a case .or
exceptions. The report of referees upon the whole issue shall stand as the
decision of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the same
manner as if the action had been tried by the court. When the reference
is to report the facts, the report shall have the effect of a special verdict:*
provided, that whenever a finding has been made, or a decision or a judgment
rendered upon the finding of the referee or referees, and the said finding or
decision shall be set aside, or a new trial granted in the action, the cause
referred shall be placed upon the calendar for trial by the court or a jurj',
as the case may be, the same as though no reference had ever been made, sub
ject, nevertheless, to the same right of reference as in the first instance.
Sec. 4867. Powers of majority.— When there are three referees, all shall
meet, but two of them may do any act which might be done by all; and when
ever any authority is conferred on three or more persons, it may be exercised
by a majority upon the meeting of all, unless expressly otherwise provided by
statute.
Sec. 4868. Defined — How stated and settled An exception is an
objection, taken at the trial, to a decision upon a matter of law. The point
of the exception shall be particularly stated, and either delivered in writing to
the judge, or entered in his minutes, and immediately corrected or added to
until made conformable to the truth, or it may afterward be settled in a state
ment of the case.
Sec. 4869. Form of. — No particular form of exception is required; the
objection shall be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary to ex
plain it, but no more, and the whole as briefly as possible.
Sec. 4870. Grounds for. — A verdict, report or decision may be vacated,
and a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any
of the following causes materially affecting the substantial rights of such
party.
First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, referee or prevail
ing party, or any order of the court or referee, or abuse of discretion, by which
the moving party was prevented from having a fair trial;
Second. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party;
Third. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against;
Fourth. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influ
ence of passion or prejudice;
Fifth. That the verdict, report or decision is not justified by the evidence,
or is contrary to law;
Sixth. Newly-discovered evidence, material for the party making the ap
plication, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and
produced at the trial;
Seventh. Error in law, occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party
making the application.
Sec. 4871. Motion for, how made.— When the application is made
for a cause mentioned in the fourth, fifth and seventh subdivisions of the last Section, it is made either upon a bill of exceptions or a statement of the case,
prepared as prescribed in the next section; for any other cause, it is made
upon affidavit.
Minutes.— "Provided, however, that the judge who tries the cause may,
in his discretion, entertain a motion to be made on his minutes, or upon tue
minutes of the stenographic reporter where there is such a reporter, to set
aside a verdict and giant a new trial, upon exceptions, or for insufficient evi
dence, or for excessive damages; but such motions, in actions hereafter tried,
if heard upon the minutes, can only bo heard at the same term or court at
which the trial is heard. When such motion is heard and decided upon the
minutes of the judge, and an appeal is taken from the decision, a case or ex
ceptions must be settled in the usual form, upon which the argument of the
appeal must be had.
Exceptions during trial. — And provided, if, during the trial, any excep
tion is taken to the ruling of the court, such exception may be forthwith taken
and reduced to writing, and allowed and signed by the judge, together with
so much of the testimony or charge as to make the ruling and exception intel
ligible, which shall be made a part of the record, so as to obviate a case or
other bill of exception; and on appeal the court shall not infer that any other
evidence was introduced to obviate the exceptions.
Or. S. cb. 66, § 236 (254), as amended 1875, ch. 60. Approved February 20th. Amendment
below *. 4 M. 422; 6 M. 558 ; 8 M. 26; 28 M. 408; 32 M. 449.
Sec 4872. Bill of exceptions or case, how prepared and settled.—
The party preparing a bill of exceptions or case shall, within twenty days
after the trial, serve it upon the adverse party, who may, within ten days
after such service, propose amendments thereto; and within fifteen days after
service of such amendments, the same, with the amendments proposed thereto,
shall be presented to the judge or referee who tried the cause, for allowance
or settlement and signature, upon a notice of five days; if not presented
within the time aforesaid, or such further time as may be stipulated or
granted, the same shall be deemed abandoned: * provided, that whenever the
judge who tried the cause shall die, or become incapable from acting from
sickness or other cause, before a bill of exceptions is allowed or case made, or
shall depart from and remain without the state at the time limited for the
same allowance or settlement, the said bill may be allowed, or case settled, by
or before the judge of an adjoining judicial district in which the action is
pending; or in case a referee shall so die, or become incapacitated, or remain
absent, as herein set forth, such bill may be allowed, or case settled, by the
judge of the district court in which such action is pending; and, in either
case, such allowance or settlement shall be made upon the files in the cause,
the minutes of the judge or referee, if attainable, and upon such proof of
what transpired at the trial as may be presented by affidavit on behalf of the
parties to the action, with like effect in all respects as if such bill was allowed,
or case settled, by the judge or referee who tried the cause. The case or bill,
being examined, and found or made conformable to the truth, shall be allowed
and signed by the judge, referee, or other officer acting instead of such judge or
referee, as provided herein.
"or such further time as may be stipulated or granted" and the enlarge
ment of the time. 4 M. 379; 18 M. 79; 19 M. 407; 30 M. 230; 27 M. 402 ; 25 M. 244; 85 M. 452;
37 M. 383.
TITLE 12.
JUDGMENTS.
Judgment Upon Failure to Answer.
Sec. 4873. Procedure. — Judgment may be had, if the defendant fails to
answer the complaint, as follows:
In actions for money only. — First. When, in an action arising on
contract for the payment of money only, the summons has been personally
served, and the plaintiff shall file with the clerk, proof of the personal service of
the summons, and that no answer has been received within the time allowed
by law, the clerk shall thereupon enter judgment for the amount mentioned
in the summons against the defendant, or against one or more of several de
fendants, in the cases provided for in this chapter. In other actions for the
recovery of money only, on filing the like proof, the plaintiff may apply to
the court for a reference, to have his damages assessed, or the amount he is
entitled to recover ascertained in any other manner, and for judgment.
Counter-claim.— * When the defendant by his answer in such action
shall not deny the plaintiff's claim, but shall set up a counter claim amounting
to less than the plaintiff's claim, judgment may be entered by the clerk of
court in favor of plaintiff for the excess of his said claim over the said counter
claim, with costs and disbursements, upon the plaintiff's filing with said clerk
a statement signed by plaintiff, his attorney or agent, admitting such counter
claim, together with an affidavit of his costs and disbursements; which state
ment and affidavit shall be annexed to and be made a part of the judgment
roll : all of which may be done without notice to the defendant.*
In other actions. — Second. In other actions, the plaintiff may, upon like
service and proof, apply to the court, after the expiration of the time for an
swering, for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an account
or the proof of any fact is necessary to enable the court to give judgment, or
to carry the judgment into effect, the court may take the account or hear the
proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose.
When service by publication.— Third. When the service of the sum
mons was by publication, or by leaving a copy thereof at the house of the
usual abode of the defendant, in actions arising on contract for the payment
of money only, the plaintiff, upon filing with the clerk proof of such service,
and that no answer has been received within the time allowed by law,
together with the security hereinafter mentioned, shall be entitled to judgment
in the same manner as if the summons had been served upon the defendant
personally ; in other actions, upon filing the like proof, the plaintiff may apply
for judgment, and the court shall thereupon require proof to be made of the
demand set forth in the complaint, and may render judgment for the plaintiff
for such amount, or such relief, as he is entitled to recover.
Security.— In all cases where the summons has not been served personally,
the plaintiff, before judgment is entered, must file, or cause to be filed, satis
factory security to abide the order of the court touching the restitution of any
money or propert}' collected or received under or by virtue of the judgment,
in case the defendant or his representatives shall thereafter apply and be ad
mitted to defend the action, and shall succeed in the defence: provided, that
when service of the summons is made by leaving a copy thereof at the house
of the usual abode of the defendant, and the officer or person making such
service shall return that he left such copy with some person of suitable age
and discretion, then resident therein, it shall be deemed personal service; and
in such cases judgment may be entered without filing the security herein pro
vided for. Provided further, that in all actions involving the title to or
brought to quiet the title to real estate, judgment may be entered without
filing the security above provided.
Sec. 4874. Not exceed relief demanded The relief granted to the
plaintiff, if there is no answer, cannot exceed that which he has demanded in
his complaint; but in any other case, the court may grant him any relief
consistent with the case made by the complaint, and embraced within the
issue.
Sec. 4S75. When no officers to levy tax to pay— Whenever a judg
ment shall bo entered in any action against a city or other municipal corpo
ration in any court of record having jurisdiction of such action, and there
shall be no officers in such city or municipal corporation authorized by law to
levy taxes for the payment of such judgment, it shall be the duty of the gov
ernor to appoint suitable persons, residents of the state, who will accept the
olfices, officers of such city.
1885, ch. 151, § 1 : " An act to provide for the collection of judgments against municipal cor
porations." Approved February 28, 18S5.
Sec. 487G. Duty of appointed officers — Such officers so appointed
shall be known and designated by the same names respectively, and have the
same powers, rights and privileges respectively, as officers duly elected, pur
suant to the provisions of the charter of such city or municipal corporation,
and it shall be the duty of such officers to assess, levy and collect such taxes
as may be necessary to pay such judgment, and such counsel fees for the de
fense of the action in which judgment is rendered as may be allowed by
the court in which said judgment is rendered.
Sec. 4877. Proceedings — On a judgment for the plaintiff, upon an issue
of law, the plaintiff may proceed in tbe manner prescribed by the statute
upon the failure of the defendant to answer where the summons was per
sonally served. If judgment is for the defendant, upon an issue of law, and
the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, is necessary to enable the
court to complete the judgment, a reference may be ordered as by statute
provided.
Sec 4878. When.— The action may be dismissed, without a final deter
mination of its merits, in the following cases:
First. — By the plaintiff, at any time before trial, if a provisional remedy
has not been allowed, or counterclaim made, or affirmative relief demanded in
the answer: provided, that an action on the same cause of action against
any defendant shall not be dismissed more than once without the written con
sent of the defendant, or an order of the court on notice and cause shown.
Second. — By either party, with the written consent of the other; or by the
court, upon the application of either party, after notice to the other, and suf
ficient cause shown, at any time before the trial ;
Third. — By the court, where, upon the trial, and before the final submission
of the case, the plaintiff abandons it, or fails to substantiate or establish his
claim, or cause of action, or right to recover;
Fourth. — By the court, when the plaintiff fails to appear on the trial, and
the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal;
Fifth. — By the court, on the application of some of the defendants, when
there are others whom the plaintiff fails to prosecute with diligence.
All other modes of dismissing an action, by non-suit or otherwise, are abol
ished. The dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions is made by an
entry in the clerk's register, and a notice served on the adverse party; judg
ment may thereupon be entered accordingly.
" or affirma
tive relief demanded in the answer." 1881, Ex. S. ch. 20, added the proviso to first subdivis
ion. 1 M. 179; 14 M. 401; 22 M. 92; 2 M. 50; 6 M. 550, 572; 2# M. 170; 14 M. 491 : 20 M. 408:
33 M. 256; 31 M. 331, 417; 34 M. 378; 30 M. 158; 30 M. 502; 35 M. 71 ; 36 M. 313; 37 M. 490 ; 41
N. W. 656.
Judgment on the Merits.
Sec. 4879. Defined. — In every case, other than those mentioned in the
last section, the judgment shall be rendered on the merits.
Sec 4880. Between the several parties.— Judgment may be given for
or against one or more of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of
several defendants, and it may, when the justice of the case requires it, de
termine the ultimate rights of the4 parties on each side, as between themselves.
Sec 4881. Against one or more of several defendants.— In an ac
tion against several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render judg
ment against one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the
others, whenever a several judgment is proper.
Sec 4882. Against one or more sued jointly — Whenever two or
more persons are sued as joint defendants, and on the trial the plaintiff fails
to prove a joint cause of action against all, but proves a cause of action against
one or more of the defendants, judgment may be rendered against him or
them against whom the cause of action is proved.
1878, ch. 67: "An act to authorize a several judgment to be taken on failure to prove a
joint cause of action." Approved February 21, 1873. 22 M. 540; 27 M. 59.
Sec. 4883. On counterclaim. — If a counterclaim, established at the trial,
exceeds the plaintiff's demand so established, judgment lor the defendant shall
be given for the excess, or, if it appears that the defendant is entitled to any
other affirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.
Sec. 4884. In action to recover possession of personal property. —
In an action to recover the possession of personal property, judgment may be
rendered for the plaintiff and for the defendant in the same action, or for
either. of them. Judgment for either party, if the property has not been de
livered to him, and a return is claimed in the complaint or answer, may be
for the possession, or the value thereof in case possession cannot be obtained,
and damages for the detention, or taking and withholding the same. When
the prevailing party is in possession of the property, the value thereof shall
not be included in the judgment. If the property has been delivered to the
plaintiff, and the action is dismissed before answer, or if the answer so claims,
the defendant shall have judgment for a return of the property and damages,
if any, for the detention, or taking and withholding such property, but such
judgment shall not be a bar to another action for the same property or any
part thereof.
Sec. 4885. After death of party. — If a party dies after verdict or de
cision upon an issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may nevertheless
render judgment thereon ; such judgment is not a lien on the real property
of the deceased party, but is payable in the course of administration on his es
tate.
Sec 4886. In judgment-book.— The judgment shall be entered in the
judgment-book, and specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination
of the action.
Sec. 4887. Upon verdict. — When a trial by jury has been had, judg
ment shall be entered by the clerk in conformity to the verdict, unless the
court orders the case to be reserved for argument or further consideration, or
grants a stay of proceedings.
Sec. 4888. What constitutes — Immediately after entering the judg
ment, the clerk shall attach together and file the following papers, which con
stitute the judgment-roll:
First. — In case the complaint is not answered by any defendant, the sum
mons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof of service and that no answer
has been received, the report, if any, and a copy of the judgment.
Second. — In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies thereof, and
a copy of the judgment, with any verdict, decision or report, the offer of the
defendant, exceptions, and all orders in any way involving the merits, and
necessarily affecting the judgment. If a statement of the case is made, the
same may be attached to the judgment- roll, on the request of either party.
Sec. 4889. Same — Supplying lost papers. — If an original pleading
or paper is lost, or withheld by any person, the court may authorize a copy
thereof to be filed and used instead of the original.
Sec. 4890. Security suspends.— That whenever judgment has been en
tered in any suit or action, and a motion has been made and is pending for a
new trial, or an appeal has been taken to the supreme court, .the judgment
shall cease to be a lien on the real estate of the defendant, upon payment
into court, as security of such judgment, the amount thereof, and such further
sum as the court may by order direct and determine to be sufficient to secure
all interest and costs that will probably accrue pending such appeal.
1876, ch. 75: " An act regulating the lien of judgments." Approved February 10. 1876.
Sec. 4891. Lien from time of docketing— On filing a judgment-roll,
upon a judgment requiring the payment of money, the judgment shall be
docketed by the clerk of the court in which it was rendered, and in any other
county, upon riling in the office of the clerk of the district court of such
county a transcript of the original docket; and thereupon the judgment, from
the time of docketing the same, becomes a lien on all the real property of the
debtor in the county, owned by him at the time of the docketing of the judg
ment, or afterward acquired; said judgment shall survive, and the lien thereof
continue, for the period of ten years, and no longer.
"that
in any action upon such judgment, the judgment therein shall not be a lien upon the real
property of the original judgment debtor." 1 M. 274; 4 M. 318; 5 M. 333, 409; 7 M. 513; 10
M. 303; 11 M. 78; 16 M. 230, 480; 17 M. 69; 22 M. 380; 37 M. 034; 38 M. 362; 34 M. 460; 28 M.
219.
Sec. 4892. Lien of judgments in United States courts. — Judgments
for the payment of money that have been heretofore or shall be hereafter
duly docketed, either in the district or circuit court of the United States in
and for the state of Minnesota, from the time of docketing the same become
a lien on all the real property of the debtor in the county wherein said judg
ment was rendered, and in any other county in the state, upon filing, in the
office of the clerk of the district court of such county, a duly certified tran
script of such docket.
1877, ch. 141, § 1: "An act making the judgments of the United States courts liens on real
estate the same as judgments in state courts." Approved March 3, 1877.
Sec. 4893. Same — Docketing transcripts.— Whenever any such tran
script shall be delivered to the clerk of the district court in and for any
county in the state of Minnesota, the same shall be docketed in like manner,
and have like effect, as if such judgment had been rendered in one of the dis
trict courts in and for the state of Minnesota.
1877, ch. 141, § 2.
Sec. 4894. Same — Authority to attorney general.— The attorney
general of this state is hereby authorized to procure and publish a transcript
of the docket of all judgments in the United States district and circuit courts
for this state now in force, and furnish a copy thereof to the several clerks of
the district courts of this state: provided, the expense of the same shall not
exceed the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars.
Sec. 4895. How made— Whenever a judgment is assigned, the assign
ment thereof shall be in writing, under the hand and seal of the assignor, and
shall by him be acknowledged before a justice of the peace, or any other
officer authorized to take the acknowledgment of deeds.
1877, ch. 09, § 1 : " An act relating to the assignment of judgments." Approved February
26, 1877.
Sec 4896. Entry Of assignment.— The instrument of assignment of
any such judgment shall be filed in the court rendering the judgment, with
the files in the action, and an entry thereof shall be made upon the docket;
and until so filed, an}r such assignment shall be void as against creditors
levying upon or attaching the same, and as against subsequent purchasers in
good faith for value.
1877, ch. 99, § 2.
Sec. 4897. Eights saved. — After a judgment has been assigned, and the
assignment filed, as in this act provided, nono but the assignee, his agent or
attorney, shall have authority to receive or collect the amount due on such
judgment or to take out execution to enforce the collection of such judgment:
provided, that no assignment shall be construed or allowed to deprive at
torneys of their lien or interest in any judgment, for their fees, costs and
disbursements.
1877, ch. 99, p.
SATISFACTION OF JUDGMENT.
Sec 4898. How entered. — Satisfaction of a judgment shall be entered
in the judgment-book, and noted upon the docket, upon an execution returned
satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk,
made in the manner of an acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property,
by the judgment creditor, or, within two years after the judgment, by the at
torney, unless a revocation of his authority is previously entered upon the
register. And whenever a judgment is satisfied in fact, as to any one of sev
eral defendants, an entry to that effect may be made in the judgment-book
and docket. Whenever a judgment is satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon
an execution, it is the duty of the party or attorney to give such acknowledg
ment, and upon motion the court may compel it, or may order the entry of
satisfaction to be made without it. Satisfaction of a judgment docketed upon
transcript shall be noted on such docket, upon filing in the office of the clerk
of the district court of the county where such transcript is filed, a certified
copy of the instrument of satisfaction on file in the office of the clerk of the
district court of the county where the judgment was recovered. Whenever a
judgment is satisfied, it is the duty of the clerk of the district court to give
certified copies of instruments of satisfaction. Unless such revocation of au
thority has been so previously entered upon the register, the attorney of record
may at any time within two (2) years after the judgment, satisfy and discharge
the same and the lien thereof, by a brief entry to -that effect made on tue
register, subscribed by such attorney, and witnessed and dated by the clerk
of the court or his deputy. Any satisfaction made and acknowledged in the
name of a partnership by a member of the partnership, shall be as valid ami
binding as if executed and acknowledged by each individual member of the
partnership; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any
case where such partnership has been dissolved prior to the making of sucu
satisfaction.
Sec. 4899. For fraud,— That in all cases where judgment heretofore has
been or hereafter may be obtained in any court of record by means of perjury,
subornation of perjury, or any fraudulent act, practice or representation of
the prevailing part}', an action may be brought by the party aggrieved to set
aside said judgment, at any time within three years after the discovery by
him of such perjury, subornation of perjury, or of the facts constituting such
fraudulent act, practice or representation. Such action shall be commenced
in the judicial district where such judgment was rendered, and in such action
the court shall have and possess the same powers heretofore exercised by courts
of equity in like proceedings, and may perpetually enjoin the enforcement of
such judgment, or command the satisfaction thereof, and may also compel the
prevailing party to make restitution of any money or other property received
by virtue thereof, and may also make such other or further order or judgment
as may be just or equitable.
Not to affect innocent parties.— Provided, that no rights or interests
under any judgment obtained by means of such wrongful or fraudulent acts
or practice of the prevailing party, acquired by third parties in good faith
and without actual knowledge of such wrongful or fraudulent acts or practice,
shall be affected by any such order or judgment made in the action herein
provided for.
Statute of limitations. — And provided further, that when in any such
action, pending the final determination thereof, the statute of limitation shall
become a bar to the enforcement of such judgment, or to the commencement
of an action thereon, and, in the action herein provided for, the validity of such
judgment shall be established, such judgment may be enforced, or an action
commenced thereon, at any time within one year after the final determination
of the action herein provided for.
1877, ch. 131: "An act for the relief of judgment debtors." Approved February 20, 1877.
29 M. 237 ; 26 M. 138; 38 M. 231 ; 40 N. W. 3j5.
Judgment Without Action.
by confession.
Sec. 4900. When allowed. — A judgment by confession may be entered
without action, either for money due, or to become due, or to secure any per
son against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the
manner prescribed by this chapter.
Sec 4901. On statement of confession — A statement in writing shall
be made, signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following
effect:
First. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a specified sum.
Second. If it is for money due, or to become due, it shall state concisely
the facts out of which it arose, and show that the sum confessed therefor is
justly due, or to become due.
Third. If it is for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against a contingent
liability, it shall state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and show
that the sum confessed therefor, does not exceed the same.
Sec. 4902. Entry of judgment.— The statement may be filed with the
clerk of the district court, who shall endorse upon it, and enter in a judgmentbook,
a judgment of the district court for the amount computed. The state
ment and verification, with the judgment endorsed thereon, become the judg
ment-roll.
Sec. 4903. On plea of confession — Judgment may also be rendered in
the district court in vacation, or in term, upon a plea of confession signed by
an attorney of such court, although there is no action then pending between
the parties, if the following provisions are complied with, and not otherwise:
First. The authority for confessing such judgment shall be in some proper
instrument, distinct from that containing the bond, contract, or other evidence
of the demand for which judgment is confessed;
Second. Such authority shall be filed with the clerk of the court in which
the judgment is entered, at the time of filing and docketing such judgment.
"copy" in second
subdivision and inserted "authority."
Sec. 4904. Same — Entry of.— When the authority mentioned in the last Section is filed with the clerk of the district court, judgment may be entered
thereon, in the same manner as is provided in section one of this chapter.
Sec 4905. Effect of judgments by confession — Any judgment en
tered, under either of the provisions of this chapter, in vacation, shall be as
final and effectual as judgment rendered upon a verdict of a jury; and unless
special provision is made for a stay of execution upon such judgment, execu
tion may issue immediately.
Sec. 4906. When and how.— Parties to a matter in dispute which might
be the subject of a civil action ma}', without action, agree upon a case con
taining the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submis
sion of the same to any court which would have jurisdiction if an action had
been brought; but it shall appear by affidavit that the controversy is real,
and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties; the
court shall thereupon hear and determine the case at a general or special
term, and render judgment thereon, as in civil actions.
Sec 4907. Judgment thereon.— Judgment shall be entered in the judg
ment-book, as in other cases. The case, submission, and a copy of the judg
ment, constitute the judgment-roll, and judgment may be enforced in the same
manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and is in the same manner
subject to appeal.
Sec 4908. In joint obligations — When a judgment is recovered against
one or more of several persons jointly indebted upon an obligation, by pro
ceeding as provided by statute, those who were not originally summoned to
answer the complaint may be summoned to show cause why they should not
be bound by the judgment, in the same manner as if thoy had been originally
summoned.
Sec 4909. Death of judgment debtor after judgment.— In case of
the death of a judgment debtor, after judgment, the heirs, devisees, legatees,
or personal representatives of the judgment debtor, or the tenants of real prop
erty owned by him, and affected by the judgment, may be summoned to show
cause why the judgment should not be enforced against the estate of the judg
ment debtor, in their hands respectively. The proceedings thereon are suoject
to the provisions of the chapter upon actions by or against executors, ad
ministrators, legatees, heirs aud devisees.
Sec. 4910. Summons.— Said summons shall be subscribed by the attorney
of the judgment creditor, describe the judgment, and require the person sum
moned to show cause within thirty days after the service of the summons, and
shall be served in the same manner as an ordinary summons.
Sec 4911. Affidavit to accompany summons— The summons shall
be accompanied by an affidavit of the judgment creditor, or his attorney, that
the judgment has not been satisfied, to his knowledge or information and be
lief, and shall specify the amount due thereon.
Sec 4912. Defenses. — Upon such summons, the party summoned may
answer within the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up
any defence which has arisen subsequent to the rendition thereof; if he is pro
ceeded against according to section 1 two hundred and fifty-six, he may make
the same defence which might have been made originally to the action, except
the statute of limitations; if he is proceeded against according to section1 two
hundred and fifty-seven, he may make the same defence which he might have
made to an action upon the judgment.
Sec. 4913. Pleadings — Judgment— The party issuing the summons
may demur or reply to the answer, and the part}' summoned may demur to
the reply, and the issue may be tried, and judgment and costs may be given,
in the same manner as in an action, and enforced by execution, or the appli
cation of property charged with the payment of the judgment, may, if neces
sary, be compelled by attachment.
Sec 4914. When may issue. — The party in whose favor judgment is
given, may, at any time within ten years after the entry thereof, proceed to
enforce the same, as prescribed by statute.
Sec. 4915. After death Of party.— Notwithstanding the death of a party
after judgment, execution thereon against his property may be issued and ex
ecuted in the same manner and with the same effect as if he was still living;
except that such execution cannot be issued within a year after his death.
Sec 4916. To whom.—-When the execution is against the property of
the judgment debtor, it may bo issued to the sheriff of any county where the
judgment is docketed. Where it requires the delivery of real or personal prop
erty, it shall be issued to the sheriff of the county where the property or some
part thereof is situated. Executions may be issued at the same time to differ
ent counties.
Sec 4917. Kinds of.— There are two kinds of writs of execution: one
against the property of the judgment debtor, and the other for the delivery
of the possession of. real or personal property, or such delivery with damages
for the detention, or taking and withholding the same.
Sec. 4918. Form and contents.— The writ of execution shall be under
the seal of the court, subscribed by the clerk, tested in the name of. the district
judge, indorsed b}' the attorney of the party applying therefor, and directed to
the sheriff, or coroner when the sheriff is a party or interested; it shall intelligibh'
refer to the judgment, stating the court, the county where the judg
ment-roll or transcript is filed, the names of the parties, the amount of the
judgment, if it is for money, the amount actually due thereon, and the time of
docketing in the count}' to which the execution is issued, and shall require the
officer substantially as follows:
Against property. — First. If it is against the property of the judgment
debtor, it shall require the officer to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out
of the personal property of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property
cannot be found, out of the real property belonging to him on the da}' when
the judgment was docketed in the count}', or at any time thereafter not ex
ceeding ten years. * And in case real property has been levied upon by virtue
of a writ of attachment, in favor of the judgment creditor, in the same action
in which the judgment was rendered, and the judgment creditor has, subse
quently to such levy, paid the taxes upon the real property so attached, and
tiled in the office of the clerk of the court the receipt of the proper officer for
such taxes, the said receipt shall be attached to and become a part of the
judgment-roll, and the execution shall also specify the tiling of such receipt,
with the date of filing, date of receipt, and amount thereof; and in case of the
sale under execution of any such real estate, the proceeds of such sale, after
deducting the costs and expenses thereof, shall be first applied to the payment
of the amount so paid for taxes, with the interest accrued thereon.*
Against property held by heirs. — Secend. If it is against real or personal
property in the hands of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, ten
ants of real property, or trustees, it shall require the officer to satisfy the
judgment, with interest, out of such property.
Against joint defendants.— Third. If it is against defendants jointly
indebted upon a contract, a part of whom only have been summoned in the
action, it shall issue in form against all the defendants, but the attorney of
the party causing it to be issued shall indorse thereon the names of those
defendants who were not summoned, and such execution shall not be levied
upon the sole property of any such defendant; but it may be collected out of
the personal property of any such defendant owned by him as a partner with
the other defendants summoned, or any of them.
For delivery of property. — Fourth. If it is for the delivery of the
possession of real or personal property, it shall require the officer to deliver the
possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto,
and may, at the same time, require the officer to satisfy any costs, charges,
damages, rents or prolits, recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal
property of the party against whom it was rendered, and the value of the
property for which the judgment was recovered, to be specified therein, if a
delivery thereof cannot be had; and if sufficient personal property cannot be
found, then out of the real property, as provided in the lirst subdivision of
this section, and in that respect it shall be deemed an execution against prop
erty.
Sec. 4919. Return — Renewal. — The execution shall be made return
able within sixty days after its receipt by the officer to the clerk with whom
the judgment-roll is filed *(but the judgment creditor or his attorney may, at
any time within said sixty days, demand the money received and collected by
said sheriff upon execution in his hands, and. the sheriff shall immediately pay
the same over to said judgment creditor or his said attorney, after deducting
his proper fees thereon.)* On the return of an execution unsatisfied in whole
or in part, or just before the expiration of the period of sixty days, the clerk
may renew the same for a further period of sixty days on the oral or written
request of the judgment creditor or his attorney, by endorsing. on said execu
tion the words following: " Eenewed sixty days from the date hereof at the
request of the judgment creditor; " to which endorsement he shall add the
true date of making the same and attest the same by his signature and the seal
of the court, and shall thereupon deliver the same, so endorsed, to the officer
returning the same; and such renewal shall have the effect of extending the
life of the execution for an additional period of sixty days, full}r preserving
all levies made and rights acquired under the execution before such renewal,
and such execution may be again so renewed, from time to time, by endorse-'
ment by the clerk as aforesaid, with the same effect as such first renewal.
Sec. 4920. Enforcement.— Where a judgment requires the payment of
money, or the delivery of real or personal property, the same is enforced in
these respects by execution, as provided in the last three sections. Where
it requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment
may be served upon the party against whom it is given, or upon the person
or officer who is required thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and his obedi
ence thereto enforced. If he refuses, he may be punished by the court as for
contempt.
Sec 4921. Manner of. — The sheriff shall execute the writ against the
property of the judgment debtor, by levying on the property, collecting the
things in action, or selling the same, if the court so orders, selling the other
property, and paj7ing to the plaintiff the proceeds, or so much thereof as will
satisfy the execution.
Sec 4922. Property subject to levy — All goods, chattels, real or per
sonal, and all property, real, personal or mixed, including all rights and shares
in the stock of any corporation, all money, bills, notes, book-accounts, debts,
credits, and other evidences of indebtedness, belonging to the * judgment
debtor, may be levied upon and sold on execution. Until a levy, property not
subject to the lien of the judgment is not affected by the execution.
" at * and inserted "judgment debtor." 16 M. 148; 25 M.
171.
Sec. 4923. Levy on real property.— Upon property subject to the lien
of the judgment, a minute by the officer on the execution of the time when
said execution was delivered to him, stating that at such time he levied upon
such property (describing it), shall be deemed a sufficient levy.* And the
officer, at the request of the judgment creditor, may, at any time before or at
the time of the execution sale, or during the progress of sale, release such
property, or such part thereof as may not have been actually sold, from such
levy, before satisfaction in lull of the judgment; and the judgment, or such part
thereof as shall not have been actually satisfied by a payment or sale, and the
lien thereof, shall not be in any way affected by such levy and release, but
the same shall remain in full force and effect to the same extent as if no levy
had been made.
Sec 4924. Levy on personal property. — Personal property, capable
of manual delivery, shall be levied upon by the officer taking it into his custody.
Sec. 4925. Same — When cannot be removed.— When an execution
is levied upon articles of personal estate which, by reason of their bulk or
other cause, cannot be immediately removed, a certified copy of the execution
and return may, within three (3) days thereafter, be deposited in the office of
the clerk* or recorder of the city, village or town* in which said articles are;
and such levy shall be valid and effectual as if the articles had been retained
in the possession and custody of the officer.
". 63. Approved February 18th. Amendment
Btruck out at * " of the city or town," and inserted matter between * *. 35 M. 391. ?K f
Sec. 4926. Same.— The clerk shatl receive and file all such copies, noting
thereon the time when received, and keep them safely in his office, and also
enter a note thereof, in the order in which they are received, in the books kept
for making entries of mortgages of personal property; which entry shall con
tain the names of parties to the suit and the date of the entry. The clerk's
fee for this service shall be twenty-five cents, to be paid by the officer, and
included in his charge for the service of the execution.
Ok S. ch. 66, § 273 (304). 28 M. 473.
Sec. 4927. Choses in action. — Other personal property shall be levied
on by leaving a certified copy of the execution, and a notice specifying the
property levied on, with a person holding the same; or if a debt, with the
debtor; or if stock or interest in stock of a corporation, with the president or
other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof.
Sec. 4928. On money. — Whenever any gold, silver or copper coin, or
any bills or other evidence of debt issued by any moneyed corporation, or by
the government of the United States, and circulated as money, is seized upon
execution, the officer shall pay and return the same as so much money col
lected; but if the same does not, at the time and place of such seizure, circu
late at par, the officer shall make sale thereof as in other cases.
. G. S. ch. 66, § 277 (308).
Sec. 4929. On growing crops. — A levy may be made upon grain or
grass while growing, and upon any other unharvested crops; but no sale
thereof shall be made, under such levy, until the same is ripe, or fit to be har
vested; and any levy thereon, by virtue of an execution issued by a justice
of the peace,* or any court of record, shall be continued beyond the return-
day thereof, if necessary, and remain in life; and the execution thereof may
be completed at any time within thirty days after such grain, grass, or other
unharvested crop is ripe, or fit to be harvested.
"or any court of reccrd." 27 M. 529: 35 M. 389.
Sec 4930. On chattels pledged or mortgaged.— When goods or chat
tels are pledged or mortgaged for the payment of money, or the performance
of an}' contract or agreement, the right and interest in such goods of the per
son making such pledge or mortgage may bo sold on execution against him,
and the purchaser shall acquire all the right and interest of the defendant, or
judgment debtor and be entitled to the possession of such goods and chattels,
on complying with the terms and conditions of the pledge or mortgage.
Sec. 4931. Make and return.— The officer shall make a full inventory
of the property levied on, and return the same with the. execution.
Sec. 4932. Serve copy on judgment debtor— The officer shall at or
before the time of posting of notices of sale serve a copy of the execution and
252
inventory certified by him, upon the * judgment debtor, if he can be found
within the county; if he is a resident thereof but cannot be found therein the
said officer shall leave such copy at the usual place of abode of the said judg
ment debtor with some person of suitable age and discretion then resident
therein.
" judgment debtor." Acts 1879 in
serted after " officer shall " " at or before the time of posting of notices of sale."
Sale*
Sec 4933. When and how made?— A sale shall be made by auction,
between nine o'clock in the morning and sunset, in the county where the
premises or some part thereof is situate; after sufficient property has been
sold to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold ; neither the officer hold
ing the execution nor his deputy can purchase; when the sale is of personal
property capable of manual delivery, it shall be within view of those who at
tend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest
price; and when the sale is of real property, and consisting of several known
tracts or parcels, they shall be sold separately; or when a portion of such
real property is claimed by a third person, and he requires it to be sold sepa
rately, such portion shall be thus sold.
Sec 4934. Notice Of sale. — Before the sale of personal property on exe
cution, notice thereof shall be given as follows:
First. — By posting written or printed notice of the time and place of sale,
in three public places of the county where the sale is to take place, ten days
successively. v
Second. — When real property is sold upon judgment, decree or execution, a
similar notice describing the property with sufficient certaintj' to enable a per
son of common understanding to identify it, shall be posted for six weeks
successively in three public places of the county where the property or some
part thereof is situated, and a copy thereof shall be published once a week for
the same period in a newspaper printed and published in the county, if there
is one, or if there is none, * then in a newspaper printed and published in an
adjoining county, and if there is no such newspaper, * then in a newspaper
printed and published at the capital of the state.
Sec 4935. Selling without notice — Penalty An officer selling with
out the notice prescribed by the last section shall forfeit one hundred dollars
to the aggrieved party, in addition to his actual damages; and a person tak
ing down or defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale, or the satis
faction of the execution, and without the consent of the parties, shall forfeit
fifty dollars; but the validity of the sale is not affected by either act, either
as to third persons, or parties to the action.
Sec 4936. Certificate of sale of real estate.— Whenever any sale of
real property is made upon any execution, or pursuant to any judgment, de
cree or order of a court (except when otherwise specified in such judgment,
decree or order), the officer shall make and deliver to the purchaser a certifi
cate, under his hand and seal, containing —
First. — A description of the execution, judgment, decree or order under
which such sale is made.
Second. — A description of the real property sold.
Third. — The price paid for each parcel sold separately.
Fourth. — The date of the sale, and the name of the purchaser.
Fifth. — When subject to redemption, it shall be so stated.
Said certificate shall be executed, proved or acknowledged, and recorded, as
required by law for the conveyance of real estate,* and shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts therein stated.
Sales heretofore made.— f And in case of any snch sale heretofore made,
upon which no certificate has been made or delivered by the officer, such officer
or his successor in office may make and deliver to the purchaser such certifi
cate, at any time within six months after the passage of this act; and any
certificate upon an}' such sale heretofore made, whether such certificate has
heretofore been or shall hereafter be made and delivered by such officer, may
hereafter be recorded with like force and effect as if recorded within the time
originally provided .therefor.
" within twenty days after such sale." Acts
1877, ch. 31, added after * "and shall be prima facie evidence of the fncts therein stated."
Acts 1877, ch. 32, added matter after f. Acts 1873, ch. 53 (ante, §4154). legalized deeds thereto
fore made by successor of sheriff. 1 M. 427; 7 M. 82; 34 M. 460; 30 M. 163.
Sec. 4937. Same to operate as a conveyance.— Such certificate, so
proved or acknowledged and recorded, shall, upon the expiration of the time
for redemption, operate as a conve_vance, to the purchaser or his assigns, of
all the right, title and interest of the person whose property is sold, in and
to the same, at the date of the lien upon which the same was sold, without
any other conveyance whatever.
Sec 493S. Where sale irregular, or judgment reversed.— If the
purchaser of real property sold on execution, or his successor in interest, is
evicted therefrom in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concern
ing the sale, or of the reversal or the discharge of the judgment, he may
recover the price paid, with interest, from the judgment creditor; such judg
ment creditor, if the recovery was in consequence of the irregularity, shall
thereupon be entitled to a new execution on the judgment, at any time
within ten years after such eviction, for the price paid on the sale, with
interest; and for that purpose the judgment shall be deemed valid against the
judgment debtor, his personal representatives, heirs or devisees; but not against
a purchaser in good faith as an incumbrancer where title or incumbrance has
accrued before a levy on such new execution.
Sec 4939. Purchaser's interest subject to attachment or judg
ment.— The interest acquired upon any sale is subject to the lien of any at
tachment or judgment duly made or docketed against the person holding the
same, as in case of real property ; and may be attached or sold upon execution,
in the same manner.
Sec. 4940. Between debtors and sureties.— When property liable to
an execution against several persons is sold thereon, and more than a due
proportion of tiie judgment is levied upon the property of one of them, or one
of them pays, without a sale, more than his proportion, he may compel con
tributions from the others; and when a judgment is against several, and is
upon an obligation of one of them as security for another, and the surety
pays the amount, or any part thereof, either by sale of his property, or before
sale, he may compel repayment from the principal. In such cases, the person
so paying or contributing is entitled to the benefit of the judgment, to enforce
contribution or repayment, if, within ten days after his payment, he files with
the clerk of the court where the judgment was rendered, notice of his pay
ment, and claim to contribution or repayment; upon filing such notice, the
clerk shall make an entry thereof in the margin of the docket.
Sec 4941. Property subject to redemption.— Upon the sale of real
property where the estate sold is less than a leasehold of two years unexpired
term, the sale is absolute; in all other cases the property sold is subject to re
demption as provided by law.
Second. By a Creditor having a lien, legal or equitable, on the real estate
or some part thereof, subsequent to that on which the same was sold. Cred
itors shall redeem in the order of their respective liens.
Sec 4943. Order Of.— The judgment debtor, his heirs and assigns, may
redeem within one year after the day of sale, by paving to the purchaser the
amount of his bid, with interest thereon at the rate of seven per cent, per
annum, and if the purchaser is a creditor having a prior lien, the amount
thereof with interest. If no such redemption is made, the senior creditor may
redeem within five days after the expiration of said year, and each subsequent
creditor within five days after the time allowed all prior lien-holders as afore
said, by paying the amount aforesaid, and all liens prior to his own held by
the party from whom such redemption is made: provided, that no creditor
can redeem unless, within the year aforesaid, he tiles notice of his intention
to redeem in the office of the clerk of the court where the judgment is
entered.
Sec 4944. How made.— The person desiring to redeem shall pay to the
person holding the right acquired under such sale, or for him to the sheriff or
clerk of the district court of the county in which such real property is situated,
the amount required by law for such redemption, and shall produce to such
person or officer:
First. A certified copy of the docket of the judgment, or deed of convey
ance or mortgage, or of the record or files evidencing any other lien, under
which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the officer in whose custody
such docket, record, file or files shall be;
Second. Any assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified by the
affidavit of himself, or of a subscribing witness thereto, or of some person ac
quainted with the signature of the assignor;
Third. An affidavit of himself or his agent, showing the amount then
actually due on his lien.
Sec 4945. Certificate of redemption. — The person or officer from
whom such redemption is made, shall make, and deliver to the person redeem
ing, a certificate under his hand and seal, containing:
First. The name of the person redeeming, and the amount paid by him on
such redemption;
Second. A description of the sale from which such redemption is made,
and of the property redeemed ;
Third. Stating upon what claim such redemption is made, and if upon a
lien, the amount claimed to be due thereon at the date of redemption.
Such certificate shall be executed, and proved or acknowledged, and recorded,
as provided by law for conveyance of real estate; and if not so recorded within
ten days after such redemption, such redemption and certificate is void, as
against any person in good faith making redemption from the same person or
lien. If such redemption is made by the owner of the property sold, or his
heirs or assigns, such redemption annuls such sale; if by a creditor holding a
lien on the property, or some part thereof, said certificate, so executed, and
proved or acknowledged, and recorded, operates as an assignment to him of
the right acquired under such sale, subject to such right of any other person
to redeem as is or may be provided by law.
Sec. 4946. Waste before redemption.— Until the expiration of the
time allowed for redemption, the court may restrain the commission of waste
on the property, by order granted with or without notice, on application of the
purchaser or judgment creditor ; but it is not waste for the person in possession
of the property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession afterward, during
the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use it in the same manner
in which it was previously used, or to use it in the ordinary course of hus
bandry, or to make the necessary repairs of buildings thereon, or to use wood
or timber on the property therefor, or for the repairs of fences or for fuel in
his family, while he occupies the property.
Sec 4947. Enumerated.— No property hereinafter mentioned or repre
sented shall be liable to attachment, or sale on any final process, issued from
any court in this state.
First. The family bible;
Second. Family pictures, school-books or library, and musical instruments
for use of family ;
Third. A seat or pew in any house or place of public worship;
Fourth. A lot in any burial ground ;
Fifth. All wearing apparel of the debtor and his family; all beds, bed
steads and bedding, kept and used by the debtor and his family; all stoves and
appendages put up or kept for the use of the debtor and his family; all cook
ing utensils; and all other household furniture not herein enumerated, not ex
ceeding five hundred dollars in value; *also all moneys arising from insurance
of any property exempted from sale on execution, when such property has
been destroyed by fire.
As amended 1878, ch. 12, by adding below * 8 M. 207; 18 M. 361 ; 3 M. 419; 22 M. 485.
Sixth. Three cows, ten swine, one yoke of oxen and a horse, or, in lieu of
one yoke of oxen and a horse, a span of horses or mules, twenty sheep, and
the wool from the same, either in the raw material or manufactured into yarn
or cloth; the necessary food for all the stock mentioned in this section for one
year's support, either provided or growing, or both, as the debtor may choose;
also, one wagon, cart or dray, one sleigh, two plows, one drag, and other farm
ing utensils, including tackle for teams, not exceeding three hundred dollars
in value;
Seventh. The provisions for the debtor and his family necessary for one
year's support, either provided or growing, or both, and fuel necessary for one
year ;
Eighth. The tools and instruments of any mechanic, miner, or other per
son, used and kept for the purpose of carrying on his trade, and, in addition
thereto, stock in trade, including articles or goods manufactured in whole or
in part by him, not exceeding four hundred dollars in value; the library and
implements of any professional man; all of which articles hereinbefore in
tended to be exempt shall be chosen by the debtor, his agent, clerk or legal
representative as the case may be. * In addition to the articles enumerated in
this section, all the presses, stones, type, cases, and other tools and implements
used by any copartnership, or by any printer, publisher or editor of any news
paper, and in the printing or publication of the same, whether used personally
by said copartnership, or by any such printer, publisher, or editor, or by any
persons hired by him to use them, not to exceed in value the sum of two thou
sand dollars, together with stock in trade not exceeding four hundred dollars
in value, shall be exempt from attachment, or sale on any final process, issued
from any court in this state.
As amended 1876, ch. 43, by adding below *, As amended 1881, ch. 25, by including the
manufactured articles. 2 M. 89 ; 18 M. 361.
Ninth. One sewing machine.
Added by acts 1868, ch. 72.
Tenth. Necessary seed grain for the actual personal use of the debtor, for
one season, to be selected by him; not, however, in any case, to exceed the
following kinds and amounts respectively, viz.: fifty bushels of wheat, fifty
bushels of oats, fifteen bushels of potatoes, three bushels of corn, and thirty
bushels of barley,* and binding material sufficient for use in harvesting the
crop raised from the seed grain above specified.
Added by acts 1871, ch. 65, as amended 1885, ch. 34. Amendment below *.
Eleventh. The wages of any person or of the minor children of any person
in any sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars due for any services rendered by
any such person or the minor children of any such person for any other per
son during thirty days preceding the issue of any process of attachment, gar
nishment or execution in any action against any such person or persons shall
be exempt from such process.
Added by acts 1872, ch. 71, as amended 1873, ch. 69, by striking out " not to apply to single
laborers on railroads." 1879, ch. 5. by striking out §r>0 and inserting $20. lt-SU, ch. 204, by in
creasing amount to $25 and decreasing time from ninety to thirty days. Before acts 1889, this
subdivision was expressly limited to laborers, male aud female, and minor children of laborers.
Act 1889 substitutes word person, but is entitled: "An act to fix the amount of wages of
laborers exempt from process of attachments, garnishments or execution."
Actual residence. — Provided, however, that the exemptions provided for
and embraced in subdivisions six, seven, eight, nine, ten and eleven, of section
two hundred and seventy -nine, shall extend only to debtors having an actual
residence in this state.
Sec. 4948. Earnings of minor children.— The earnings of any minor
child of any debtor within this state, or the proceeds thereof, shall not be liable
to attachment, garnishment, or sale on any final process of a court, in an ac
tion against such debtor, by reason of any debt or liability of such debtor not
contracted for the special benefit of such minor child.
1867, ch. 80.
Sec. 4949. When not exempt — Purchase-money.— The property
hereinbefore mentioned is not exempt from any attachment issued in any ac
tion for the purchase-money of the same property,4or from an execution issued
upon any judgment rendered therein.
Sec. 4950. Levy on excess allowed — When the officer holding an ex
ecution against any person is of the opinion that such person has more prop
erty of the classes specified in section two hundred and seventy-nine than is by
law exempt, he may levy on the whole of any one 'clas's>, and forthwith make
an inventory thereof, and cause the same to be appraised at its cash value by
two disinterested freeholders of the precinct where such property may be, on
oath to be administered by him to such appraisers. If such appraisal exceeds
the amount by law exempt of that class, the debtor may thereupon forthwith
select of such property au amount not exceeding in value, as so appraised,
Vol. II — 17 " 257
the amount exempt, and the balance shall be held and applied by said officer
as in other cases. If neither the debtor nor his agent appears and makes
such selection, the officer shall make the same. If one or more indivisible articles of any such class is of greater value than the whole amount exempt
of that class, the officer shall sell the same, and, after paying to the debtor the
amount exempt of that class, shall apply the residue in discharge of his said
process.
Sec. 4951. Liability for taking exempt property. — Whenever any
personal property exempt as aforesaid, is levied upon, seized or sold by virtue
of any execution, or wrongfully and unlawfully taken or detained b\7 any
person, the damages sustained by the owner thereof, by reason of such lev}',
seizure or sale, or such unlawful detention or taking, and any judgment re
covered therefor, shall be exempt from attachment, execution, or other pro
ceeding whereby any creditor of such owner seeks to apply the same to the
payment of his debts.
" wrongfully and unlawfully taken or detained by any person" and " 6uch unlawful
detention or taking." 3 M. 419.
Stat of Execution.
Sec. 4952. Bond for. — Execution upon any judgment, rendered for the
recovery of money only, in any district court of this state, may be stayed for
the period of six months: provided, that, in order to obtain such stay, the
party applying therefor shall, within ten days after judgment is rendered and
docketed, file a bond, with two or more responsible freeholders of this state
as sureties, with the clerk of the court in which said judgment was rendered,
in double the amount of the judgment and costs, which bond shall first be ap
proved by the judge of said court, or the court commissioner of such county,
conditioned that the judgment debtor will pay the amount of such judgment,
interest and costs, within the time for which said stay is granted, and for the
authorizing and empowering the issuing of an execution for such amount
against the judgment debtor and sureties, upon default of such payment: pro
vided, that the interest to be allowed shall be at the rate of twelve per cent,
per annum on the amount of the judgment, including the costs.
1877, ch. 76, § 1 : " An act providing for a stay of execution on judgments rendered in the
district courts of this state for the recovery of money only." Approved February 24, 1877,
Sec. 4953. Sureties justify.— Each surety must justify, by affidavit, that
he is a resident and freeholder of this state, and worth the amount specified
in the undertaking, above his debts and liabilities, and exclusive of his prop
erty exempt from execution.
1877, ch. 76, § 3.
Sec. 4954. Sufficiency. — The bond herein prescribed shall run to the
judgment creditor, his executors, administrators or assigns, a copy of which
Bhall be served on the judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, if resident of
the county wherein the judgment was rendered, within ten clays from such
rendition; and the judgment creditor may except to the bond or the suffi
ciency of the sureties, and upon notice, or by order to show cause, the court
may, in its discretion, order the execution to issue at once, notwithstanding such
bond, unless the judgment debtor give such further bond and sureties as shall
be deemed sufficient by the court; and the court may require the proposed
sureties to jusUfy oral]/, if required by the judgment creditor; and for cause
shown, the ^oSjkmay require a still further bond and sureties at any time,
and, in defl|id^ftereof, may order execution to issue.
Sec 4955,>. Stay — After levy. — If the stay herein provided shall be
granted afttjr arr execution shall have issued, or after levy made, then and in
that case the levy shall he released, and the execution returned, with the
cause, of such return thereon noted by the officer.
1877, ch. 76. § 6.
Sec 4956. Execution against debtor and sureties.— If the judgment,
interest and costs be not paid at the expiration of the time for which the same
may have been stayed, the judgment creditor may have execution issued
against the judgment debtor and his sureties, for the amount of such judg
ment, costs and interest as aforesaid.
1877, ch. 76, § 2.
Sec. 4957. Return on execution. — Every officer to whom an execution
shall issue against sureties, as provided in the preceding sections, shall certify,
in his return thereon, whether the same, and what amount, if any, was col
lected from the sureties, and the true date of such collection.
1877, ch. 76, § 5.
Proceedings Supplementary to the Execution.
Sec. 4958. Order to appear and disclose. — When an execution against
property of the judgment debtor or of any of several debtors in the same
judgment, is issued to the sheriff of the county where said debtor resides, or
if he does not reside in tins state, to the sheriff of the county where the judg
ment roll, or a transcript of a justice's judgment is filed, is returned unsatis
fied, in whole or in part, the judgment creditor is entitled to an order from
the judge of the district court f of the judicial district where the debtor re
sides, requiring such judgment debtor, or if a corporatin, any officer thereof,
to appear and answer concerning his or its property before the judge of
the district in which such debtor resides or where such corporation has an
officer, or before a referee appointed by such judge, at a time and place speci
fied in said order. ^'Provided, that if the judgment debtor or other person
required to attend and be examined, as prescribed in this title, or officer of a
corporation required to attend in its behalf, is at the time of the service of the
order upon him, a resident of the state, or then has an office within the state
for the regular transaction of business in person, he cannot be compelled to
attend pursuant to the order or to any adjournment, at a place without the
county wherein his residence or place of business is situated.
" from which the execution was issued " and inserted " of the judicial district
where^th^de£tor resides," and added matter below *. 9 M. 270 ; 16 M. 518 ; 25 M. 264. >7- *X
^*Sec. 4959. ^Warrant of arrest instead of order. — Instead of the order
requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, as provided in the last sec
tion, the judge may, upon proof by affidavit that there is danger that the
debtor will leave the state, or conceal himself, issue a warrant requiring the
sheriff of any county where such debtor is, to arrest him and bring him before
such judge; upon being brought before the judge, he may be examined on
oath, and ordered to give bond, with sureties, that he will attend from time
to time before the judge or referee, as he shall direct, during the pendency of
the proceeding, and until the final determination thereof, and will not in the
meantime dispose of any portion of his property not exempt from execution;
in default of giving such bond, he may be committed to jail, by warrant of
the judge, as for a contempt.
Sec 4960. Examination of debtor of judgment debtor. — After the
issuing or return of an execution against property of the judgment debtor, or
of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, and upon proof by affi
davit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that any person or corpo
ration has property of the judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount
exceeding ten dollars, the judge ma\' by an order require such person or cor
poration, or any officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and
place, and answer concerning the same; the judge may also, in his discretion,
require notice of such proceeding to be given to any party in the action, in
such manner as may seem to him proper.
1807, ch. 01 : "An act to amend title 24 of ch. 06 of G. S., relating to civil actions," by add
ing thereto the following. Approved March 1st. 30 M. 483. £ f ft yy 7
Sec. 4961. Same — Pay to sheriff. — After the issuing of execution
against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the
sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to sat
isfy the execution, and the sheriffs receipt is a sufficient discharge for the
amount so paid.
Sec. 4962. Examination under oath — Duty of referee.— If the ex
amination is before a referee, the testimony and proceedings shall be certified
by him to the judge; all examinations and answers before a judge or referee,
under this chapter, shall be on oath, except that when a corporation answers,
the answer shitll be on the oath of an officer thereof.
Sec 4963. Questions — No excuse from answering— No person
shall, on examination pursuant to, this chapter, be excused from answering
any question on the ground that his examination will tend to convict him of
the commission of a fraud; but his answer shall not be used as evidence
against him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution. . «
Sec. 4964. Witnesses — Appeal.— "Witnesses may be required to appear
and testify on any proceedings under this title in the same manner* and sub
ject to the rules governing the trial of actions, and such debtors may be repre
sented by counsel. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court by any
aggrieved party in such proceedings from any order or judgment made or ren
dered in the proceedings under said title and chapter.
" as upon the trial of an issue."
ORDER OF COURT.
Sec. 4965. To apply property. — The judge may order any property of
the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of him
self or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied toward
the satisfaction of the judgment, except that the earnings of the debtor for
his personal services, at any time within thirty days next preceding the order,
cannot be so applied, when it appears, by the debtor's affidavit, that such
earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly or partly by
hislabor. J-'fy*<t*G.
S. ch. 00, g 304 (312). 35 M. 232. > ' ' ^ (
Sec. 49C6. Same — Receiver— The judge may in accordance with and
subject to the rules of courts of equity,* appoint a receiver of the property of
the judgment debtor not exempt from execution, or forbid a transfer or other
disposition thereof, or any interference therewith* until his further order
therein.
Sec. 4968. Action against, by receiver. — If it appears that a person
or corporation alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or to be in
debted to him, claims an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies
the debt, such interest or debt is recoverable only in an action against such
person or corporation, by the receiver; but the judge may, by order, forbid
a transfer or other disposition of such property or interest, till a sufficient
opportunity is given to the receiver to commence the action, and prosecute
the same to judgment and execution; such order may be modified or vacated
by the judge granting the same, at any time, on such security as he may
direct.
Sec. 4969. Authorized. — The plaintiff in an action to recover the posses
sion of personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property, in the
manner following:
Sec. 4970. Affidavit for.— "When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall
be made by the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:
First. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed, (particularly
describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue of a
special property therein, the facts in respect to which shall be set forth;
Second. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant;
Third. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or fine pur
suant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment against the
property of the plaintiff, or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such
seizure; and.
Fourth. The actual value of the property.
Sec 4971. Bond — Precipe. — The plaintiff or his attorney may there
upon, by endorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the
county where the property claimed may be, to take the same from the defend
ant, and deliver it to the plaintiff; and upon the receipt of the affidavit, with
the endorsement thereon, together* with a bond executed to the defendant by
the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, with one or more sureties, to be approved
by the sheriff, in an amount double the value of the property, conditioned that
the property shall be returned to the defendant, if a return shall be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as for an}' cause may be recovered
against the plaintiff, the sheriff shall forthwith take the property described in
the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain
it in his custody until delivered, as hereinafter provided.
Copies for defendant He must also serve on the defendant, without
delay, a copy of the affidavit, endorsement and bond, by delivering the same
to him personally, if he can be found, or to his agent from whose possession the
property is taken, or, if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual
place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
Sec. 4972. Qualification of sureties. — The qualification of sureties is
as follows:
First. — Each shall be a resident and freeholder of the state.
Second. — Each shall be worth the amount specified in the bond, above his
debts and liabilities, and exclusive of his property exempt from execution; but
the judge or officer taking the justification may allow more than the number
of sureties required to justify severally in amounts less than the penalty of
the bond, if the aggregate amount is equivalent thereto.
Sec 4973. When property is concealed. — If the property or any part
thereof is concealed in a building or inclosure, the sheriff shall publicly de
mand its delivery; if it is not delivered, he shall cause the building or inclos
ure to be broken open, and take the property into his possession, and, if nec
essary, he may call to his aid the power of his county.
* Whenever, by the return of the officer, or by the affidavit of the plaintiff,
his agent or attorney, it shall appear that any of the property described in the
affidavit for the claim and delivery of any personal property required by said chapter to be made has been concealed by the defendant, or cannot, after dili
gent search, be found, the court, or a judge thereof, shall require the defendant,
and such other persons as to the said court or judge may seem proper, to at
tend and be examined on oath touching any disposition of such property, to
the end that the same may be made subject to seizure by the officer in said
action; and the court or judge may enforce said order, and any subsequent
orders in said matter, as in the case of contempt.
Sec 4974. Keep and deliver property.— When the sheriff has taken
property, as herein provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it
to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his
necessary expenses for keeping the same.
Sec 4975. Make due return.— He shall file the affidavit and endorse
ment with his return thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the action
is pending, within twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein.
" writ"
and inserted "affidavit and endorsement."
Forthcoming Bond.
Sec 4976. By defendant. — Within three days after service of the writ
and bond as aforesaid, the defendant may, if he does not except to the sureties
of the plaintiff, require a return of the property, upon executing to the plaint
iff a bond, in the same amount as the bond of the plaintiff, conditioned that
the property shall be delivered to the plaintiff, if delivery is adjudged, and for
the payment to him of such sum as for any cause may be recovered against
the defendant. Such bond shall be executed by the defendant, or by some
one in his behalf, with two or more sufficient sureties. If a return of the
property is not required, or the sureties of the plaintiff excepted to, within,
three days after the taking and service of the writ and bond upon the defend
ant, then the property shall be delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided
in section 1 one hundred and twenty-one.
Sec. 4977. Exception to sureties. — The defendant may, within three
da}7s after the service of a copy of the writ and bond, give notice to the sher
iff that he excepts to the' sufficiency of the sureties; if he fails to do so, he
shall be deemed to have waived all objections to them; if the defendant ex
cepts to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the next Section.
Sec. 4978. Notice of justification.— Notice shall be given of the justifi
cation of sureties, of not less than two nor more than six days, which notice
shall be served within two days after exception taken to the plaintiff's sureties,
or after the execution of the bond by the defendant, as the case may be. If
any surety fails to justify at the time appointed, another may be offered and
substituted within such time, not exceeding three days, as the judge or officer
shall appoint; but there shall be only one adjournment for such purpose, and,
in case of substitution, a new bond shall be executed by all the parties to be
bound.
Sec 4979. Justification. — For the purpose of justification, each surety
shall attend before a judge, court commissioner, or a justice of the peace, at
the time and place specified, and may be examined on oath touching his suffi
ciency, in such manner as the judge or officer may think proper; the examina
tion shall be reduced to writing, and hied in the cause.
* G. S. ch. 66, § 123 (140).
Sec. 4980. Approval of sureties If the judge or officer deems the
sureties sufficient, he shall indorse his approval upon the bond, which shall be
delivered to the party entitled thereto, and the sheriff shall thereupon be ex
onerated from liability.
Sec. 4981. Delivery of property.— Upon due justification of the plaint
iff's sureties, the sheriff shall deliver the property to the plaintiff, except as
prescribed in section1 one hundred and thirty-eight; and upon like justifica
tion of the defendant's sureties, the property shall be delivered to the defend
ant. When sureties fail to justify as aforesaid, or when justification is waived
as herein provided, the sheriff shall forthwith deliver the property to the party
entitled thereto. The sheriff shall .retain the property until the justification
is completed or waived, and he shall be liable for the sufficiency of the sure
ties until such justification or waiver is made, or there is a failure to justify.
Either party may, in writing, waive the justification of sureties, as well after
as before notice.
Sec. 4982. Authorized.— In an a'ction for the recovery of money, the
plaintiff, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time afterward, may
have the property of the defendant attached, in the manner hereinafter pre
scribed, as security for the satisfaction of such judgment as the plaintiff may
recover.
Sec. 4983. Property subject to attachment — All goods and chattels,
real and personal, all property, real, personal and mixed, including all rights
and shares in the stock of any corporation, all money, bills, notes' bookaccounts,
debts, credits, and all other evidences of indebtedness, belonging to
the defendant, are subject to attachment.
Sec. 4984. Affidavit, when not allowed — The writ of attachment
shall be allowed whenever the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall make affi
davit that a cause of action exists against the defendant, specifying the amount
of the claim and the ground thereof; and that the plaintiff's debt was fraud
ulently contracted; or that the defendant is either a foreign corporation, or
not a resident of this state; or has departed therefrom, as deponent verily be
lieves, with intent to defraud or delay his creditors, or to avoid the service of
a summons; or keeps himself concealed therein with like intent; or has as
signed, secreted or disposed of, or is about to assign, secrete or dispose of his
property with intent to delay or defraud his creditors.
Not allowed. — Provided, that the writ of attachment shall not be allowed
in actions for libel, slander, seduction, breach of promise of marriage, false
imprisonment or assault and battery.
Sec. 4985. Bond.— Before issuing the writ, the judge or court commis
sioner shall require a bond on the part of the plaintiff, with sufficient sureties,
conditioned that if the defendant recovers judgment* or if the writ shall be
set aside or vacated,* the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be awarded to
the defendant and all damages that he ma)' sustain by reason of the attach
ment, not exceeding the penalty of the bond, which shall be at least two hun
dred and fifty dollars.
Sec. 49S6. Jurisdiction to grant — A writ of attachment shall be ob
tained from a judge of the court in which the action is brought, or a court
commissioner of the county.
Sec. 49S7. The writ.— The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any
county in which the property of such defendant may be, and require him to
attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant within his county,
and not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to
satisfy the plaintilf's demand, with costs and expenses, the amount of which
demand shall be stated in conformity with the complaint. Several writs may
be issued at the same time to the sheriffs of different counties.
Sec. 4988. Manner of. — The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and
delivered shall execute the same without delay, as follows:
First. Real estate shall be attached by the officer leaving a certified copy
of the writ, and of his return of such attachment thereon, at the office of the
register of deeds of the county in which such real estate is situated, or, if there
is no register of deeds, with the clerk of the district court of the county, and
serving a copy of the same upon the defendant in the action, if he can be
found in his county, without any other act or ceremony;
Second. Personal property capable of manual delivery to the sheriff shall
be attached by taking it into his custody;
Third. When an attachment is made of articles of personal estate, which,
by reason of their bulk, or other cause, cannot be immediately removed, a
certified copy of the writ and of the return of the attachment may, at any time
within three (3) days thereafter, be deposited in the office of the town clerk
of the town,* or clerk or recorder of the village* or city in which the attach
ment is made, and such attachment shall be as valid and effectual as if the articles had been retained in the possession and custody of the officer;
Fourth. The clerk shall receive and file all such copies, noting thereon the
time when received, and keep them, safely in his office, and also enter a note
thereof, in the order in which the}r are received, in books kept for noting
mortgages of personal property; which entry shall contain the names of the
parties to the action, and the date of the entry. The clerk's fee for this serv
ice shall be twenty-live cents, to be paid by the officer, and included in his
charge for the service of the writ;
Fifth. Other personal property shall be attached by leaving a certified copy
of the writ, and a notice specifying the property attached, with a person hold
ing the same; or if a debt, with the debtor; or if stock or interest in stock of
a corporation, with the president or other head of the same, or the secretary,
cashier, or managing agent thereof;
Sixth. The sheriff shall serve a copy of the writ of attachment, and inven
tory served by him, upon the defendant, if he can be found within the count}';
and if he is a resident thereof, but cannot be found therein, the said sheriff
shall leave such copy at the last usual place of abode of the said defendant;
Seventh. lie shall make a full inventory of the property attached, and re
turn the same with the writ of attachment.
Sec. 4989. Same — Of stocks or debts "Whenever the sheriff, with a
writ of attachment or an execution against the defendant, applies to any per
son mentioned in the fifth subdivision of section one hundred and thirty-four,
for the purpose of attaching or levying upon the property mentioned therein,
such person shall furnish him with a certificate designating the number of
rights or shares of the defendant in the stock of the corporation, with any
dividend or incumbrance thereon, on the amount and description of the prop
erty, held by such corporation or person for the defendant, or the debt owing
to the defendant; if such person refuses to do so, he may be required by the
court or judge to attend before him and be examined on oath concerning the
same; and disobedience to the order may be punished as a contempt.
Sec 4990. Perishable property — Debts, etc.— If any of the property
attached is perishable, the sheriff shall sell the same, in the manner in which
property is sold on execution. He may also take such legal proceedings,
either in his own name, or in the name of the defendant, as are necessary to
collect all debts, credits and effects of said defendant, and discontinue the
same at such times, or on such terms, as the court or judge may direct.
Sec 4991. Return of sheriff.— When the writ of attachment is fully
executed or discharged, the sheriff shall return the same, with his proceedings
thereon, to the court in which the action was brought.
Sec. 4992. When and how.— The defendant may, at anytime before
the time for answering expires, or at any time thereafter when he has an
swered, and before trial, apply to the court, on notice, to vacate the writ of
attachment. If the motion is made upon affidavits on the part of the defend
ant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits in addi
tion to those on which the writ of attachment was allowed.
Sec. 4993. By defendant. — A defendant whose property has been at
tached, may, at any time before trial, execute to the plaintiff a bond, in double
the amount claimed in the complaint, or, if the value of the property attached
be less than the amount claimed, then in double the value of the property,
with two or more sureties, to be approved by the officer allowing the writ of
attachment, or by the court commissioner of the county in which the defend
ant resides, conditioned that if the plaintiff recover judgment in the action,
he will pay such judgment, or an amount thereof equal to the value of the
property attached; and the officer approving such bond shall make an order
discharging such attachment.
Sections 140 and 141 were consolidated by acts 18G7, ch. 66, in preceding section. 5 M. 69; 7
M. 345; 12 M. 420; 18 M. 541; 20 M. 374; 23 M. 229; 31 M. 450; 39 N. W. 69.
Property Claimed by Third Persons.
Sec 4994. Affidavit — Indemnity. — If any property levied upon or
taken by a sheriff, by virtue of a writ of execution, attachment, or other pro
cess, is claimed by any other person than the defendant or his agent, and such
person, * his agent or attorney, makes affidavit of his title thereto, or right to
the possession thereof, stating the value thereof, and the ground of such title
or right, the sheriff may release such levy or taking, unless the plaintiff, on
demand, indemnify the sheriff against such claim, by bond executed by two
sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavit that they are each worth
double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the claimant
of such property, and are freeholders and residents of the county; and no
claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or his agent
shall be valid against the sheriff, unless so made; and notwithstanding such
claim, when so made, he may retain such property under levy a reasonable
time to demand such indemnity.
"his agent or at
torney" at *. 13 M. 174; 14 M. 163, 228; 18 M. 308; 30 M. 323, 333 ; 28 M. 1, 391, 528; 26 M.
122; 26 M. 174; 25 M. 437; 35 M. 250; 36 M. 183; 38 M. 425.
Sec 4995. Obligors to be impleaded.— If, in such case, the person
claiming the ownership of such property commences an action against the
sheriff lor the taking thereof, the obligors in the bond provided for in the pre
ceding section, and the plaintiff in such execution, attachment, or other pro
cess, shall, on motion of such sheriff, be impleaded with him in such action.
"When, in such case, a judgment is rendered against the sheriff and his co-de
fendants, an execution shall be immediately issued thereon, and the property
of such codefendants shall be first exhausted before that of the sheriff is sold
to satisfy such execution.
Sec. 4996. Judgment. — If judgment is recovered by the plaintiff in such
action, the sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the property attached by him,
if it is sufficient for that purpose.
First. By paying to the plaintiff the proceeds of all sales of perishable
property soid by him, or of all debts or credits collected by him, or so much
as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment.
Second. If any balance remains due, and an execution has been issued
on the judgment, he shall sell, under the execution, so much of the attached
property, real or personal, as may be ^necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose remains in bis hands; and in case of the sale of
any rights or shares in the stock of a corporation, the sheriff shall execute
to the purchaser a certificate of the sale, and the purchaser shall thereupon
have all the rights and privileges in respect thereto which were had by the
defendant.
Third. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant has
passed out of the hands of the sheriff, without having been sold or converted
into money, the sheriff shall repossess himself of the same, and for that pur
pose shall have all the authority which he had to seize the same under the at
tachment; and any person who shall wilfully conceal or withhold such prop
erty from the sheriff, shall be liable to double damages, at the suit of the party
injured.
Sec. 4997. When — Release of. — "Whenever any real estate has been at
tached by virtue of any writ of attachment,-' such real estate shall be bound,
and the attachment shall be a lien thereon, from the time that a certified
copy of the attachment, with the description of the real estate, has been de
livered for record in the office of the register of deeds in the county where
the same is situated, and not otherwise. Each register of deeds shall note
the day, hour and minute when he receives such certified copy, and shall re
cord and index the same in the books kept for the recording and indexing of
mortgages.*
Release of.— Such real estate may be discharged and released of record
from such attachment, in the following manner, to wit:
First. By filing for record, in the office of the register of deeds of the
county wherein such real estate is situated, a certified copy of the order dis
charging or vacating said attachment.
Second. By filing for record, with such register of deeds, satisfaction of
judgment rendered in such action.
Third. By judgment being rendered in the action in favor of the defend
ant against whom the attachment is issued, upon filing for record, in the office
of said register of deeds, a transcript of such judgment.
Fourth. By filing for record, in the office of such register of deeds, a satis
faction and discharge of such attachment, executed by the plaintiff in said
action, or by the attorney of record of said plaintiff, in the same manner as
is required by law for the execution of conveyances of real estate.
Fifth. Whenever any attachment has been or shall be levied and more
than three years have or shall have elapsed without judgment being entered
in the action, any person having any interest in the attached property, al
though not a party to the original action, may move for the release of any
such property from the lien of such attachment, and if it shall appear to the
satisfaction of the court that no proceedings have been had in said action for
a period of three (3) years, or from other evidence that said action has been
abandoned, said attachment shall be vacated and the lien thereof released.
" or by the attorney
of record of said plaintiff" in fourth subdivision. Acts 1885 added fifth subdivision.
Sec 4908. Release by plaintiff. — The plaintiff in such action may, at
any time before the linal discharge of such attachment, release and discharge
from such attachment any part or portion of such real estate incumbered by
said attachment, by executing, in the same manner as conveyances of real
estate are required by law to be executed, a release and discharge of such
parts or portions of said real estate so designated to be discharged and re
leased, and particularly describing the same, and tiling such release in the
office of the register of deeds of the county wherein the lands are situated;
and such release or discharge shall in nowise affect the lien and incumbrance
of said writ of attachment upon the remainder of the real estate or property
covered by said attachment, and not included in such release.
Sec 4999. Release of personalty. — Any attachment of personal prop
erty, under subdivision three of section1 one hundred and thirty-four, may be
discharged or released of record, by filing, in the proper office, an order, re
lease, transcript or satisfaction piece, as provided in section one hundred and
forty-three aforesaid.
Sec 5000. Releases to be recorded.— The register of deeds shall enter
such discharge, release or satisfaction, in the same manner and in the same
book provided for the filing and entr}' of writs of attachments, except that
the names of the plaintiffs shall be alphabetically arranged in said index; and
he shall receive the same fees as are allowed him for the filing and entry of
attachments in his office.
Sec. 5001. Before due. — Any money or other thing due or belonging to
the defendant may be attached by this process, before it has become payable,
provided it is due or owing absolutely, and without depending on any contin
gency, as aforesaid; but the garnishee shall not be compelled to pay or de
liver the same before the time appointed therefor by the contract.
Sec. 5002. In hands of corporations. — Corporations may be summoned
as garnishees, and may appear by their cashier, treasurer, secretary, or such
officer as they may appoint, and the disclosure of such person or officer shall
be considered the disclosure of the corporation, provided, that if it appears to
the court that some other member or ollicer of the corporation is better ac
quainted with the subject-matter than the one making disclosure, the court
may cite in such person to make answer in the premises; and in case such
person neglects or refuses to attend, judgment may be entered as hereinafter
provided upon default; and service of the summons upon the agent of any
corporation not located in this state, but doing business therein through such
agent, shall be a valid service upon said corporation.
Sec. 5003. In hands of executor or administrator. — Any debt or leg
acy due from an executor or administrator, and any other property, money or
effects in the hands of an executor or administrator, may be attached by this
process.
Sec 5004. Effects. — Bills of exchange and promissory notes, whether
under or over due, drafts, bonds, certificates of deposit, bank-notes, money,
contracts for the payment of money, and other written evidence of indebted
ness, in the hands of the garnishee at the time of the service of the summons,
shall be deemed "effects" under the provisions of this section.
Sec. 5005. Same — Other than debt payable in money —"When any
person is charged as garnishee b_y reason of any property or effects, other than
an indebtedness payable in money, which he holds, or is bound to deliver to
the defendant, such garnishee shall deliver the same, or so much thereof as
may be necessary, to the officer holding the execution, and the said property
shall be sold by the officer, and the proceeds accounted for, in the same man
ner as if it had been taken on execution against the defendant: provided, the
garnishee shall not be compelled to deliver any specific articles at any other
time or place than as stipulated in the contract between him and the de
fendant.
Sec 5006. Same — Action of court. — Upon application and notice to
the parties, the court may determine the value of any property or effects so
in the hands of the garnishee for deliver}', and may make any order relative
to the keeping, delivery and sale of the same, that is necessary to protect the
rights of those interested, and may make any order touching the property
attached, that is necessary for the protection of all parties interested, upon the
application of any party in interest; and may require, at any time after the
service of such garnishee summons, the property, money or effects so at
tached to be brought into court, or delivered to a receiver appointed by the7
court.
Sec. 5007. Property mortgaged — Nothing herein shall prevent the gar
nishee from selling such property or effects so in his hands, for the payment
of the demand for which the}' are mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise liable, at
any time before payment or tender of the amount due to him: provided, such
sale is authorized by the terms of the contract between said garnishee and the
defendant.
Sec 5008. Property destroyed.— If any such property or effects are
destroyed, without any negligence or default of the garnishee, after judgment
and before demand by the officer holding the execution, such garnishee shall
be discharged from all liability to the plaintiff for the non-delivery of such
property or effects.
Sec 5009. When garnishment not allowed.— No person or corpora
tion shall be adjudged a garnishee in either of the following cases, viz: —
First. — By reason of any money or any other thing due to the defendant,
unless, at the time of the service of the summons, the same is due absolutely,
and without depending on any contingency;
Second. — By reason of any debt due from said garnishee on a judgment, so
long as he is liable to an execution thereon ;
Third. — By reason of any liability incurred, as maker or otherwise, upon
any draft, biil of exchange or promissory note.
Sec. 5010. When and how issued.— In any action in a court of record
or justice's court, * for the recovery of mone\T, if the plaintiff, his agent or
attorney, at the time of filing the complaint or issuing the summons therein,
or at any time during the pendency of the action, or after judgment therein
against the defendant, makes and tiles, with the clerk of the court, or, if the
action is in a justice's court, with the justice, an affidavit stating that he be
lieves that any person (naming him) has property, mone3r or effects in his
hands, or under his control, belonging to the defendant in such action, or that
such person is indebted to the defendant, and that the value of such property
or effects, or the amount of such money or indebtedness, if the action is in the
district court, exceeds the sum of twenty-five dollars, or, if the action is in a
justice's court, ten dollars, a summons may be issued against such person, as
hereinafter provided ; in which summons and all subsequent proceedings the
plaintiff in the action shall be known and designated as plaintiff, the defend
ant as defendant, and the person against whom the summons is issued as
garnishee.
" founded upon
contract express or implied" at * and inserted "for the recovery of money." 3 M. 300; 5 M.
347; 9 M. 55; 30 M. 192.
Sec 5011. In justice's court. — If the action is in a justice's court, the
summons shall be issued by the justice, and shall require the garnishee to ap
pear before him, at a time and place mentioned in such summons, not less than
six nor more than twelve da}rs from the date thereof, and answer under oath
such questions as may be put to him touching his indebtedness to the defend
ant, and any property, money or effects of the defendant in his possession or
under his control; which summons shall be served and returned in the same
manner as a summons issued against a defendant in other causes in such court,
except that no other than personal service shall be sufficient. A copy of such
summons, together with a notice to the defendant stating the time, place and
manner of service upon the garnishee, and signed by the justice of the peace
or officer who served the same, and requiring such defendant to appear and
take part in the examination, shall be served upon the defendant at least
three days before the time specified in the summons for the appearance of the
garnishee.
Sec. 5012. In district court. — In actions in a district court, such sum
mons may be issued by the plaintiff or his attorney in the action, and shall be
served and returned in the same manner as a summons issued against a de
fendant in other cases in said court, except that the service shall in all cases
be personal. It shall require the garnishee to appear before the court in which
the action is pending, or the judge or the clerk thereof, or the court commis
sioner in the county in which the action is pending, at a time and place men
tioned therein, not less than twenty days from the service thereof, and answer
touching his indebtedness to the defendant, and any property, money or effects
of the defendant in his possession or under his control. A copy of the sum
mons, together with a notice to the defendant stating the time, place and
manner of service thereof upon the garnishee, and signed by the plaintiff or
his attorney, or the person or officer who served the summons upon the gar
nishee, and requiring such defendant to appear and take part in such exani
ination, shall be served upon the defendant at least ten days before the time
specified in the same for the appearance of the garnishee. * Such notice and
copy of the summons ma}' be served in the manner provided by law for the
service of a summons in ordinary cases.* The garnishee shall be entitled in
all cases, whether the action is in a district court or before a justice of the
peace, to the same fees as if he were subpoenaed as a witness in such action,
and may be compelled to testify and disclose respecting any matters contained
in the affidavit, in the same manner as if he were a witness duly subpoenaed
for that purpose, f But no person shall be obliged to appear as garnishee,
unless his fees for one day's attendance, and mileage according to law, is paid
or tendered in advance.
Sec 5013. Effect of service of summons The service of the sum
mons upon the garnishee shall attach and bind all the property, money or
effects in his hands, or under his control, belonging to the defendant, and any
and all indebtedness owing by him to the defendant, at the date of such serv
ice, to respond to final judgment in the action.
Sec. 5014. By defendant. — A defendant, when property, money or effects
has been garnished, may, at any time,f execute to the plaintiff a bond, in
double the amount claimed in the complaint, with two or more sureties, who
shall justify and be approved by the judge of the district court or court com
missioner of the county in which garnishee proceedings were instituted, and
if in justice court by such justice, and if in municipal court by a judge of said
court, conditioned that if the plaintiff recover judgment in the action, he will
pay such judgment, or an amount thereon equal to the value of the money,
property or effects so garnished. And the officer approving such bond shall
make an order discharging such garnishment, and releasing such money, prop
erty or effects therefrom, upon filing such bond with the court in which the
garnishee proceedings were instituted, and serving upon the garnishee a copy
of the order discharging such proceedings. The defendant shall have the
same power to receive or collect the money, property and effects so garnished,
in the same manner as if such garnishee proceedings had never been instituted.*
All of the provisions of this title shall apply to all actions in which the defend
ant has or shall recover a judgment against the plaintiff, and all actions in
which a counter-claim is interposed in the answer of the defendant, which
counter-claim exceeds in amount the amount admitted to be due in said an
swer, and in all such cases the defendant may institute proceedings under this title, and conduct them to a determination with like force and effect and in
like manner as if he was a plaintiff, and in such cases the word " plaintiff,"
wherever it is used in this title, shall be considered to mean " defendant," and
the word "complaint," shall be considered to mean "answer."
1871, ch. 67: " An act to amend the statute relating to garnishment by authorizing the re
lease of the property garnished, upon filing security," approved March 6, 1871, as amended
1881, ch. 55 (February 25); 1889, ch. 203 (March 23). Below * is acts 1881. Acts 18H9 struck
out at f the words " before the trial of the action in which he is defendant," and inserted the
provision of municipal and justice court taking and approving the bond. 38 M. 542; 38 N. W.
701.
Answer of Garnishee — Procedure.
Sec. 5015. Who may take. — Court commissioners, clerks of the district
court, or any referee appointed by the court for that purpose, are hereby au
thorized and required to take the disclosure of any garnishee in writing,
together with any other testimony offered by the parties to the action, and
report the same to the court ; all testimony offered by the parties to be taken
subject to any objection seasonably interposed thereto.
"clerks of
the district court." 21 M. 42.
Sec. 5016. Disclosure before return-day. — Whenever any person ia
summoned as a garnishee in the district court, he may, at any time before the
return-day of the summons, appear before the officer named therein, or any
justice of the peace competent to try causes between the parties, and, with the
consent of the plaintiff, to be certified by said officer or justice, make his dis
closure upon oath, with the like effect as if made on the day named in the
summons; in case such disclosure is taken by a justice, he shall receive the
same fees as are allowed by section one hundred and sixty-three aforesaid.
Sec. 5017. Same.— If the plaintiff will not consent to such examination
and disclosure, the garnishee, in case he is compelled to be absent from the
county until after the return-day of the summons, may make affidavit to that
effect, which, with a notice of time, place, and the officer or justice, he shall
serve upon the plaintiff or his attorney, at least twenty-four hours previous to
the time specified in it for the disclosure; and upon due proof of such service,
his disclosure shall be taken as provided in the preceding section, and with,
like effect.
Sec. 5018. Examination of garnishee. — After the appearance of the
garnishee before the court or officer named in the summons, on the day speci
fied therein, or on the day to which an ad journment may be had, the said
garnishee shall be examined on oath touching the matters alleged in the affi
davit, and the examining officer shall take full minutes of such examination,
and file the same with the other papers in the cause: provided, that, unless the
defendant in the action appears at the time and place specilied in the sum
mons for the appearance of the garnishee, such officer or court shall not pro
ceed to the examination of such garnishee, or to the taking of any evidence
whatever therein, until the plaintiif produces and files an affidavit, or return
of an officer, showing the service of the summons and notice upon the defend
ant as prescribed in sections' one hundred and forty-eight and one hundred
and forty-nine aforesaid; but in case the plaintiff is unable so to notify such
defendant, the said court or officer may postpone the examination for such
reasonable time as may be necessary to enable the plaintiff to notify such de
fendant, and he may then be notilied of the day to which such postponement
is had in the manner provided by law for the service of a summons in ordi
nary cases, except that it shall be a notice of ten days in a district court, and
of four days in a justice court. I
Non-resident defendant. — ^Provided, that when the defendant does not
appear at the time and place specified in the summons for the appearance of
the garnishee, and the plaintiff, or his agent or attorne\', files an affidavit stat
ing that the defendant is not a resident of this state, and is not within the
same, as the affiant verily believes, it shall not be necessary to serve upon the
defendant a copy of such garnishee summons, or any notice to the defendant
in such action, in any court; and the examination shall proceed in the same
manner as if the defendant had been duly served with such copy and notice,
or had appeared at the time and place specified in the summons for the ap
pearance of the garnishee.
"and shall be personally served if the defendant is within the state," at *. 1 Secs. 5011, 5012,
ante. A M. ;i»9; 4 M. 3S1 ; 5 H. 468 ; 9 M. 239; 21 M. 42.
Sec. 5019. Rights of other parties — If it appears from the evidence
taken, or otherwise, that any person, not a party to the action, is interested or
claims any interest in any of the property or effects in the hands of t he garnishee,
by virtue of any agreement or matter which existed prior to the service of
the summons, the examining officer, upon application, may permit such per
son to appear in the action and maintain his right; and if he does not volun
tarily appear, notice may be given him to appear or be barred of his claims,
which notice may be served as such officer shall direct. In case such person
voluntarily appears, or notice is given as aforesaid, he shall be joined as a
party to the action, and judgment therein shall bind him in the same manner
as if he had been an original party.
Sec. 5020. When garnishee has lien.— "Whenever it appears that any
property or effects in the hands of the garnishee, belonging to the defendant,
are properly mortgaged, pledged, or in any way liable for the payment of
any debt due to said garnishee, the plaintiff may be allowed, under a special
order of court, to payor tender the amount due; and the garnishee shall
thereupon deliver the property or effects, as hereinbefore provided, to the
officer holding the execution, who shall sell the same as in other cases, and
out of the proceeds shall repay the plaintiff the amount paid by him to the
garnishee tor the redemption of such property or effects, with legal interest
thereon, and apply the balance upon the execution.
Sec 5021. Same. — If any garnishee refuses or neglects to deliver any
property or effects as provided in the preceding section, he may be punished
for contempt of court, and shall, in addition, be liable to the plaintiff for the
value of such property or effects, less the amount of the lien, if any, to be re
covered by action.
Sec 5022. When garnishee denies debt or title.— If any person has
in bis possession any property or effects of the defendant, which he holds by
a conveyance or title that is void as to creditors of said defendant, he may be
charged therefor, although the defendant could not have maintained an ac
tion against him for the same; but in such cases, and in all cases where the
garnishee, upon full disclosure, denies any indebtedness to, or the possession
or control of any property, money or effects of the defendant, there shall be
no further proceeding, except in the manner following: if the plaintiff in.
such case believes that such garnishee does not answer truly in response to
the questions put to him upon such examination, or that the conveyance
under which he claims title to property is void as against the creditors of the
defendant, he may, on notice to such garnishee and to the defendant, at any
time before the garnishee has been discharged by the court or officer, of not
less than six days, apply to the court in which the action is pending, or a
judge thereof, for permission to file a supplemental complaint in the action,
making the garnishee a party thereto, and setting forth the facts upon which
he claims to charge such garnishee; and if probable cause is shown by the
plaintiff, permission shall be granted, and such supplemental complaint shall
be filed and served upon both the defendant and garnishee, either or both of
whom may answer the same, and the plaintiff may repl3r if necessary; and
the issues thus made up shall then be brought to trial, and tried, in the same
manner, in all respects, as civil actions. The provisions of this section shall
not apply to proceedings in justices' courts.
Sec 5023. By order of judge or court only. — No judgment shall be
rendered upon the disclosure of a garnishee, except by order or the judge of
the court in which the action is pending, or, in case of his absence or inability
to act, by order of a judge of another district.
Sec. 5024. By default. — When any person duly summoned as a garnishee
neglects to appear at the time specified in the - summons, or within two hours
thereafter, he shall be defaulted, and judgment shall be rendered against him
for the amount of damages and costs recovered by the plaintiff in the action
against the defendant, payable in money ; and execution may issue directly
against the goods and chattels and estate of said garnishee therefor: provided,
the court may, upon good cause shown, remove such default, and permit the
garnishee to appear and answer, on such terms as may be just.
Sec. 5025. Limits of jurisdiction.— No judgment shall be rendered
against a garnishee in a justice's court, where the judgment against the defend
ant is less than ten dollars, exclusive of costs, nor where the indebtedness of
the garnishee to the defendant, or the value of the property, money or effects
of the defendant in the hands or under the control of the garnishee, as proved,
is less than ten dollars. If the action is in a district court, no judgment shall
be rendered against the garnishee, where the indebtedness proved against him,
or the value of the money, propertj* or effects of the defendant in his hands or
under his control, shall be less than twenty-five dollars; but in all such cases
the garnishee shall be discharged, and shall recover his costs, and have execu
tion therefor against the plaintiff.
Sec. 5026. For amount due. — Judgment against a garnishee shall be
rendered, if at all, for the amount due the defendant, or so much thereof as
may be necessary to satisfy the plaintiff's judgment against said defendant,
with costs taxed and allowed in the proceeding against the garnishee.
Sec. 5027. After judgment against defendant— No judgment shall be
rendered against any garnishee until after judgment is rendered against the
defendant; but a garnishee may be discharged after examination and disclos
ure, if it appears that he ought not to be held; whenever a garnishee is not
discharged as aforesaid, the cause shall be continued to abide the result of the
original action.* And in case such original action pending in any court not a
court of record shall, under the provisions of law, be transferred to any other
court, except by appeal, any garnishee action, the judgment in which is con
ditioned on the judgment in such original action, shall be also transferred
with such original action ; and written notice of such transfer shall be served
on the garnishee defendant or defendants, by the plaintiff in such action,
specifying the court to which such transfer is made, and the time when such
garnishee action will be heard, which shall be not less than two days from the
service of such notice; and such garnishee action, so transferred, shall carry
with it all proceedings already had, and any disclosure already made therein.
Sec. 5028. Effect of judgment.— The judgment against a garnishee shall
acquit and discharge him from all ciaims of all parties to the process, in and to
the property, money or effects paid, delivered or accounted for by such gar
nishee by lorce of such judgment.
Sec. 5029. Judgment of discharge. — If any person summoned as a
garnishee is discharged, the judgment shall be no bar to an action brought
against him by the defendant or other claimants for the same demand.
Sec. 5030. When and how. — Any party to a proceeding under this title,
deeming himself aggrieved by any order or final judgment therein, may re
move the same from a justice's court to the district court, or from a district
court to the supreme court, by appeal, in the same cases, in like manner, and
with like effect, as in a civil action.
Sec. 5031. Of officers taking disclosure. — Any court commissioner,
clerk or referee shall receive from the plaintiff ten cents per folio for all evi
dence taken and reduced to writing; and the fees so paid by the plaintiff may
be taxed in the judgment against the garnishee.
" clerk."
Sec. 5032. Of plaintiff. — The plaintiff, under the provisions of this sec
tion, shall in no cases, except in cases provided for in section one hundred and
fifty-nine aforesaid, recover a greater sum for costs, including the costs al
lowed to the garnishee, than the amount of damages recovered.
Sec. 5033. Of garnishee. — If any person summoned as a garnishee ap-
ears and submits himself to an examination upon oath, as herein provided,
e shall be allowed his costs for travel and attendance, and, in special and ex
traordinary cases, such further sum as the court shall deem reasonable for his
counsel fees and other necessary expenses.
Sec 5034 Deducted from property garnished.— If any such person
is adjudged chargeable as garnishee, his said costs and allowance shall be de
ducted and retained out of the property, money or effects in his hands, and
he shall be accountable only for the balance, to be paid on the execution.
Sec 5035. Specific articles held until paid If such person is charged
on account of any specific articles or personal property, he shall not be obliged
to deliver the same to the officer serving the execution, until his costs allowed
and taxed are fully paid or tendered; and if he is discharged for any cause,
he shall recover judgment against the plaintiff for his costs, and have execu
tion therefor.
Sec 5036. Issuance. — Writs of injunction, attested and sealed as other
process of the court, may issue, upon the order of the court, or a judge thereof,
as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 5037. When and how.— The injunction may be granted at the time
of commencing the action, or at any time afterward before judgment, upon its
appearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, by the affidavit of the plaintiff
or of any other person, that sufficient grounds exist therefor. A copy of the
affidavit must be served with the injunction.
Sec. 5038. Temporary — 'When it appears by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof,
consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the com
mission or continuance of which, during the litigation, would produce injury
to the plaintiff, or when, during the litigation, it appears that the defendant
is about to do, or is doing, or threatening, or procuring, or suffering some
act to be done, in violation of the plaintiff's rights respecting the subject of
the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary in
junction may be granted to restrain such act. And where, during the pend
ency of an action, it appears by affidavit that the defendant threatens or is
about to remove or dispose of his property, with intent to defraud his cred
itors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such removal or
disposition.
Sec. 5039. After answer. — An injunction shall not be allowed after an
swer unless upon notice, or upon an order to show cause; but in such case the
defendant may be restrained until the decision of the court or judge granting
or refusing the injunction.
Sec. 5040. After notice. — In cases where a sale of real estate upon exe
cution or foreclosure by advertisement is sought to be enjoined, the applica
tion for an injunction shall be heard and determined upon notice to the adverso
party, either by motion or order to show cause. The application shall
be made immediately on receiving notice of the publication of the notice of
sale ; and no injunction in such cases shall be allowed ex parte, unless the rights
of the applicant would otherwise be prejudiced, nor unless a satisfactory ex
cuse is furnished, showing why the application was not made in time to allow
the same to be heard and determined, upon notice, before the day of sale. In
all other cases, if the court or judge deems it proper that the defendant, or
any of several defendants, shall be heard before granting the injunction, an
order may be made, requiring cause to be shown, at a specified time arid place,
why the injunction should not be granted.
Sec 5041. Bond.— When no special provision is made by law as to secu
rity upon injunction, the court or judge allowing the writ shall require a bond
on behalf of the party applying for such writ, in a sum not less than two hun
dred and fifty dollars, executed by him or some person for him, as principal,
together with one or more sullicient sureties, to be approved b\' said court or
judge, to the effect that the party applying for the writ will pay the party
enjoined or detained such damages as he sustains by reason of the writ, if the
court finally decide that the party was not entitled thereto. The damages
may be ascertained by a reference or otherwise as the court shall direct.
Sec. 5042. When and how.— If the injunction is granted without notice,
the defendant, at any time before trial, may apply, upon notice, to the judge
of the court in which the action is brought, to vacate or modify the same.
The application may be made upon the complaint, and the affidavits on which
the injunction was granted, or upon the answer, or affidavits on the part of
the defendant, with or without the answer.
Sec. 5043. Affidavits. — If the application is made upon affidavits on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same
by affidavits or other evidence in addition to those on which the injunction
was granted.
Sec. 5044. Appointment.— A receiver may \>e appointed:
First. Before judgment, on the application of either party, when he estab
lishes an apparent right to property which is the subject of the action, and
which is in the possession of an adverse party, and the property or its rents
ami profits are in danger of being lost, or materially injured or impaired, ex
cept in cases where judgment upon failure to answer may be had without
application to the court;
Second. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect;
Third. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the judg
ment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or when an execu
tion has been returned unsatisfied, and the judgment debtor refuses to apply
his property in satisfaction of the judgment;
Fourth. In the cases provided by law, when a corporation has been dis
solved, or is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited
its corporate rights; and, in like cases, of the property, within this state, of
foreign corporations;
Fifth. In such other cases as are now provided by law, or may be in accord
ance with the existing practice, except as otherwise provided herein.
Sec. 5045. Deposit in court. — When it is admitted by the pleading or
examination of a party that he has in his possession, or under his control, any
money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the liti
gation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due
to another party, the court may order the same to be deposited in court or
delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to the further direc
tion of the court.
Sec 5046. Disobedience of order. — Whenever, in the exercise of its
authority, a court orders the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money or
other property, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the
disobedience as for contempt, may make an order requiring the sheriff or other
proper officer to take the money or property, and deposit, deliver or convey
it in conformity with the direction of the court.
Sec. 5047. Defined.— A petit jury is a body of twelve men impannelled
and sworn, in a district court, to try and determine, by a true and unanimous
verdict, any question or issue of fact, in any civil or criminal action or pro
ceeding, according to law and the evidence as given them in court.
Sec. 5048. Qualifications.— The qualifications and disabilities of petit
jurors shall be the same as those prescribed by law for grand jurors.
Sec. 5049. Limitation.— The provisions of this title shall not extend to
the trial of any indictment for any offence where the party indicted is entitled
to challenge peremptorily, or without cause shown, more than two jurors.
Sec. 5050. For each general term. — A number of petit jurors, not less
than twenty-four, shall be drawn for each general term of the district court,
and no greater number shall be drawn unless the court otherwise orders; but
in no case shall more than thirty-six petit jurors be drawn,* and the judge of
said court may, in his discretion, by an order filed with the clerk direct that
no petit juror be drawn or summoned for such term.
Sec. 5051. Same — When judge orders.— The judge of the district
court may, at least thirty days before the time for holding a general term of
said court, order a number of petit jurors greater than twenty -four, and not
exceeding thirty-six, to be drawn and summoned for such term; and upon
such order being made and entered upon record in the office of the clerk of
the court in the county where such term is to be held, such clerk shall draw
and issue a venire for the number of jurors mentioned in such order.
Sec. 5052. Procedure. — The petit jurors shall be drawn and summoned
at the same time and in the same manner as is by law prescribed for the
drawing and summoning of grand jurors.
Provided, further, that at any time before the issuing of the venire the
judge of the district court may, by his order in writing, filed with the clerk,
fix a time in the term other than the first day thereof for the appearance of
the petit jurors; in which case the venire shall command the sheriff to sum
mon the persons so drawn as jurors as aforesaid to appear before the court at
the time so fixed by the judge to serve as petit jurors.
Provided, that in the county of Hennepin, the petit jurors shall be sum
moned to appear at nine o'clock a. m. on the second Tuesday of each general
term of the district court for said county, unless said court, by an order made
at least fifteen days before the term, shall direct that the petit jurors be sum
moned to appear at an earlier day in the term.
Sec 5053. Same — On trial of indictment.— When an indictment is
called for trial, and before drawing the jury, either party may require the
names of all the jurors in the panel to be called, and that an attachment issue
against those who are absent; but the court may, in its discretion, wait or not,
for the return of the attachment.*
Sec. 5054. Prepared and deposited.— At the opening of the court the
clerk shall prepare separate ballots containing the names of the persons sum
moned as petit jurors, which shall be folded as nearly alike as possible, and so
that the name cannot be seen, and be deposited in a sufficient box.
a S. ch. 71, § 6.
Sec. 5055. How drawn.— Before the name of any juror is drawn, the box
shall be closed, and shaken so as to intermingle the ballots therein; the clerk
shall then, without looking at the ballots, draw them from the box through a
hole in the lid, so large only as conveniently to admit the hand.
Sec. 5056. How kept. — When the jury are completed, the ballots con
taining the names of the jurors sworn shall be laid aside, and kept apart from
the ballots containing the names of the other jurors, until the jury so sworn
are discharged.
Sec. 5057. To be returned to box.— After the jury are so discharged,
the ballots containing their names shall be again folded and returned to the
box ; and so on, as often as a trial is had.
Sec 5058. Same.— If a juror is absent when his name is drawn, or is set
aside, or excused from serving on the trial, the ballot containing his name
shall be folded and returned to the box as soon as the jury is sworn.
Sec 5059. When.— When, by reason of challenge or otherwise, a suffi
cient number of jurors duly drawn and summoned, cannot be obtained for the
trial of any cause, the court shall cause jurors to be returned from the by
standers, or from the county at large, to complete the panel.
Sec. 5060. By whom.— The jurors so returned from the by-standers, shall
be returned by the sheriff or his deputy, or by a coroner, or by any disinter
ested person appointed therefor by the court.
Sec 5061. Qualifications. — The persons so returned shall be such as
are qualified and liable to be drawn as jurors, according to the provisions of
law.
Sec. 5062. When and how.— Whenever a struck jury is deemed neces
sary, by either party, for the trial of the issue in any action or proceeding in
the district court, or brought there by appeal or otherwise, such party may
file with the clerk of the court, a demand in writing for such jury, whereupon
such clerk shall forthwith deliver a certified copy of such demand to the sher
iff of the county, who shall give to both parties four days' notice of the time
of striking the same. At the time designated, said sheriff shall attend at his
office, and in the presence of the parties, or their attorneys, or such of them
as attend for that purpose, shall select from the number of persons qualified
to serve as jurors within the county, forty such persons as he shall think most
indifferent between the parties, and best qualified to try such issue; and then
the party requiring such jur}% his agent or attorney, shall first strike off one
of the names, and the opposite party, his agent or attorney, another, and so
on alternately, until each have struck out twelve. If either party shall not
attend in person, or by attorney, the sheriff shall strike for the party not at
tending. When each party has stricken out twelve names, as aforesaid, the
sheriff shall make a fair copy of the names of the remaining sixteen persons,
and certify the same under his hand to be the list of jurors struck for the trial
of such cause or proceeding, and shall deliver the same to the clerk, who shall
thereupon issue and deliver to the sheriff or other officer, a venire facias, with
the names in said list contained, annexed thereto; and such sheriff or other
officer, shall summon the persons named, according to the command of such
writ; and upon the trial of the cause, the jury so struck shall be called as they
stand upon the panel, and the first twelve of them who shall appear, and are
not challenged for cause, or set aside by the court, shall be the jury, and shall
be sworn to try the issue joined in said cause or proceeding: provided, that if
a sufficient number does not appear for the trial of said cause, the court shall
cause talesmen to be called as in other cases.
Sec. 5063. Same — "When sheriff interested.— If the said sheriff is
interested in the cause or proceeding, or related to either of the parties, or
does not stand indifferent between them, the judge of the said court may
name some judicious and disinterested person to strike the jury, and to do and
perform all things required to be done by such sheriff, relating to the striking
of the same; but in no case shall it be necessary to strike such jury more than
six days previous to the term of the court at which the action or proceeding
is to be tried, and three days' service of the venire shall be held sufficient.
Sec. 5065. Continuance.— A jury struck for a trial of any issue at a
particular term of the court, may be continued with the continuance of the
cause, and summoned as jurors at a subsequent term, provided both parties
consent thereto, but not otherwise.
Sec. 5066. To supreme court.— A judgment or order, in a civil action,
in any of the district courts, may be removed to the supreme court, by appeal,
as provided in this chapter, and not otherwise.
Sec 5067. When allowed. — An appeal may be taken to the supreme
court, by the aggrieved party, in the following cases:
11 M. 203; 17 M. 61; 21 M. 1.
First. From a judgment in an action commenced in the district court, or
brought there from another court from any judgment rendered in such court,
and, upon the appeal from such judgment, the court may review any inter
mediate order involving the merits, or necessarily affecting the judgment.
3 M. 852, 359; 6 M. 235; 8 M. 467; 20 M. 245.
Second. From an order granting or refusing a provisional remedy, or which
grants, refuses, dissolves, or refuses to dissolve an injunction, or an order va
cating or sustaining an attachment.
1 M. 239; 11 M. 364; 12 M. 351; 14 M. 125; 21 M. 39; 30 M. 478; 24 M. 314.
Third. From an order involving the merits of the action, or some part
thereof.
2 M. 118; 4 M. 320; 5 M. 347; 6 M. 136, 558; 8 M. 467; 10 M. 168, 192, 285; 12 M. 60. 349,
G15; 13 M. 66; 14 M. 333, 513; 15 M. 43, 185; 18 M. 316; 19 M. 132; 21 M. 336; 22 M. 539; 34
M. 443 ; 25 M. 362.
Fourth. From an order granting or refusing a new trial, or from an order
sustaining or overruling a demurrer.
1 M. 801; 2 M. 34, 224; 3 M. 352; 9 M. 151; 12 M. 388; 13 M. 260; 87 M. 382.
Fifth. From an order, which, in effect, determines the action, and prevents
a judgment from which an appeal might be taken.
2 M. 50; 3 M. 259; 5 M. 27; 16 M. 177; 30 M. 207; 37 M. 445.
Sixth. From a final order affecting a substantial right, made in a special
proceeding, or upon a summary application in an action after judgment.
1 M. 121. 183; 4 M. 224, 320; 5 M. 65; 6 M. 550, 558; 7 M. 325, 493; 8 M. 214; 9 M. 166; 10 M.
63: 11 M. 253, 381 ; 15 M. 230; 16 M. 13, 451 ; 18 M. 384; 22 M. 452, 542; 30 M. 359; 25 M. 152,
295.
"from an order refusing a new trial," and inserted as above. 33 M. 406; 31 M. 211; 29 M.
163, 271, 463; 27 M. 109, 144; 26 M. 10, 235; 26 M. 101, 163.
Sec. 5068. Time for appeal. — The appeal from a judgment hereafter
rendered may be taken within six months alter the entry thereof, and from an
order within thirty days after written notice of the same.
Sec. 5069. Notice of appeal. — An appeal shall be made by the service of
a notice in writing, on the adverse party, and on the clerk with whom the
judgment or order appealed from is entered, stating the appeal from the same,
or some specified part thereof. When a party gives, in good faith, notice of
appeal from a judgment or order, and omits, through mistake, to do any other
act necessary to perfect the appeal, or to stay proceedings, the court may per
mit an amendment on such terms as may be just.
Sec. 5070. Title of appeal. — The party appealing is known as the appel
lant, and the adverse party as the respondent; but the title of the action is
not to be changed in consequence of the appeal.
"
Sec 5071. Record.— Upon an appeal being perfected, the clerk shall
transmit to the supreme court a certified copy of the judgment-roll, or order
appealed from, and the papers upon which the order was granted, at the ex
pense of the appellant. When a case is made, or bill of exceptions allowed,
it may, for the purpose of the appeal, stand in place of or be attached to the
judgment-roll, and certified to the appellate court as aforesaid.
Sec. 5072. Same. — The appellant shall furnish the court with copies of
the notice of appeal, and of the order or judgment-roll. If ho fails to do so,
the appeal may be dismissed.
Sec 5073. Effect of appeal. — "Whenever an appeal is perfected, as pro
vided by sections1 eleven, twelve and fourteen, it stays all further proceedings
in the court below, upon the judgment appealed from, or upon the matter
embraced therein; but the court below may proceed upon any other matter
included in the action, and not affected by the judgment appealed from. And
the court below may, in its discretion, dispense with or limit the security re
quired by said sections, when the appellant is an executor, administrator,
trustee, or other person acting in another's right.
Sec 5074. For costs. — To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a
bond shall be executed by the appellant, with at least two sureties, conditioned
that the appellant will pay all costs and charges which may be awarded
against him on the appeal, not exceeding the penalty of the bond, which shall
be at least two hundred and fifty dollars; or that sum shall be deposited with
the clerk with whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the judg
ment of the court of appeal; but such bond or deposit may be waived by a
written consent on the part of the respondent.
Sec 5075. In appeal from an order. — Such appeal, when taken from
an order, shall stay all proceedings thereon, and save all rights affected thereby,
if the appellant, or some one in his behalf, as principal, executes a bond, in such
sum, and with such sureties, as the judge making the order, or in case he can
not act, the court commissioner or clerk of the court where the order is filed,
directs and approves, conditioned to pay the costs of said appeal, and the dam
ages sustained by the respondent in consequence thereof, if said order or any
part thereof is atlirmed, or said appeal dismissed, and abide and satisfy the
judgment or order which the appellate court may give therein; which bond
shall be filed in the office of said clerk.
Sec. 5076. In judgment directing payment of money.— If the ap
peal is from a judgment directing the payment of money, it does not stay the
execution of the judgment, unless a bond is executed by the appellant, with at
least two sureties, conditioned that if the judgment appealed from, or any part
thereof, is affirmed, the appellant will pay the amount directed to be paid by
the judgment, or the part of such amount as to which the judgment is affirmed,
if it is affirmed only in part, and all damages which are awarded against the
appellant upon the appeal.
Sec. 5077. Same — When appeal for purpose of delay.— In an ac
tion arising on contract, for the recovery of money only, notwithstanding an
appeal ana security given for a stay of proceedings therein, if the respondent
gives adequate security to make restitution in case the judgment is reversed
■or modified, he may, upon leave obtained in the manner hereinafter provided,
from the court below, proceed to enforce the judgment. Such security shall
be a bond executed, by the respondent, or some one in his behalf, to the appel
lant, with at least two sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the judgment is
reversed or modified, the respondent will make such restitution as the appel
late court directs. Such leave shall only be granted upon motion and notice
to the adverse part}', and in case when it satisfactorily appears to the court
that the appeal has been taken for the pupose of delay.
Sec 5078. In judgment directing delivery of personal property
If the judgment appealed from, directs the assignment or delivery of docu
ments, or personal property, the execution of the judgment is not stayed by
appeal, unless the things required to be assigned or delivered are brought
into court, or placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the court may
appoint; or unless a bond is executed by the appellant, with at least two sureties,
and in such amount as the court or judge thereof may direct, conditioned
that the appellant will obey the order of the appellate court upon the appeal.
Sec. 5079. In judgment directing sale or possession of realty
If the judgment appealed from directs the sale or deliver}' of possession of
real propert}', the execution of the same is not stayed, unless a bond is exe
cuted on the part of the appellant, with two sureties, conditioned that, dur
ing the possession of such property by the appellant, he will not commit or
suffer to be committed any waste thereon ; ana that, if the judgment is af
firmed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property, from,
the time of the appeal until the delivery of the possession thereof, pursuant
to the judgment.
Sec. 5080. In judgment directing conveyance If the judgment ap
pealed from directs the execution of a conveyance, or other instrument, the
execution of the judgment is not stayed by the appeal, until the instrument is
executed, and deposited with the clerk with whom, the judgment is entered,
to abide the judgment of the appellate court.
Sec. 5081. In other cases — Perishable property.— In the cases not
specified in sections 1 eleven, twelve, thirteen and fourteen, the perfecting of
an appeal, by giving the bond mentioned in section nine, stays proceedings in.
the court below, upon the judgment appealed from, except that when it directs
the sale of perishable property, the court below may order the property to be
sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited or invested, to abide the judg
ment of the appellate court.
Sec. 5082. One instrument.— The bonds prescribed by sections1 nine,
eleven, twelve and fourteen may be in one instrument, or several, at the option
of the appellant; and a copy, including the names and residence of the sure
ties, shall be served on the adverse party, with the notice of appeal, unless a
deposit is made as provided in section nine, and notice thereof given.
Sec. 5083. Justification of sureties — A bond upon an appeal is of no
effect, unless it is accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, that they are
each worth double the amount specified therein; the adverse party may, how
ever, except to the sufficiency of the sureties, within ten days after notice of
the appeal; and unless they or other sureties justify before a judge of the
court below, as prescribed by law in other cases, within ten days thereafter,
the appeal shall be regarded as if no such bond had been given; the justifica
tion shall be upon a notice of not less than five days.
Sec 50S4. Undertakings in lieu of bonds — That in all cases of appeal
from the board of county commissioners to the district court upon the allow
ance or disallowance of any account of indebtedness, and in all actions brought
before justices of the peace, and in all cases of an appeal from a justice court
or a probate court to the district court, and in all actions commenced in the
district court, and in all cases of appeal or writ of error to remove a cause or
proceeding therein to the supreme court, and in all cases of special or equita
ble proceedings in either the district or supreme courts, the filing or service,
or both, as may be required by law or the practice of the court, of an under
taking signed by a surety or sureties, as the law may require, containing a
condition substantially the same as that required by law to be contained in
the various bonds now required by law in such cases, with like sureties, qual
ifications and justifications, and without any acknowledgment and without the
seal or signatures of the person or parties taking such proceeding, shall be
deemed a sufficient compliance with the law to sustain any such action, appeal
or proceeding; and every such undertaking shall be construed in any proceed
ing taken or had thereon, to save and secure all rights and liabilities to the
same extent and in every particular as though a bond had been executed, ac
knowledged, filed and served in the manner now required by law; and the
damages presumed to accrue to the party against which such proceeding is
taken, shall be construed to be a sufficient consideration for such undertaking
to support the same or any action thereon, though no consideration be men
tioned therein: provided, that no undertaking or bond need be given or exe
cuted in any case before such appeal or other proceeding is instituted or taken
in favor of the state of Minnesota, any count}7, town, city, school district
therein, or any executor or administrator as such.
18G8, ch. 80: " An act to provide for the filing or service of undertakings in lieu of bonds in
certain cases." Approved March 5, 1868.
Jurisdiction of Appellate Court.
Sec 5085. To reverse, affirm or modify.— Upon an appeal from a
judgment or order, the appellate court may reverse, affirm or modify the judg
ment or order appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal,
and as to any or all of the parties, and may, if necessary or proper, order a
new trial. When the judgment is reversed or modified, the appellate court
may make complete restitution of all the property and rights lost by the
erroneous judgment.
Sec 50S6. Dismissal not final. — No discontinuance or dismissal of an
appeal in the supreme court shall preclude the party from taking another ap
peal in the same cause, within the time limited by law.
Sec. 5087. Dismissal during vacation. — That any judge of the su
preme court shall, during vacation, have the same power as the court at term,
to dismiss any appeal and remand the cause to the court below, upon the
stipulation of the parties to such appeal consenting to such dismissal, to be
filed with the clerk of said court.
1879, ch. 70: "An act to authorize appeals to be dismissed from supreme court during va
cation upon stipulation of parties." Approved March 4, 1879.
Death of Party Pending Appeal.
Sec. 5088. Proceedings on death of respondent. — In all cases where
an appeal has been taken to the supreme court, and before such appeal has
been perfected, or argued and submitted, the respondent to such appeal dies, it
shall be and is the duty of the appellant to apply to the supreme court, if in
session, to any judge thereof when not in session, to have the legal represent
ative or successor in interest of such deceased respondent substituted as the
party respondent in such appeal. In case such appellant fails or neglects
to cause such substitution to be made within sixty days from the death of
such respondent, or in case any such appeal has heretofore been taken and
remains un perfected, and no substitution made, as herein provided, within
sixty days from the passage of this act, upon the filing of an affidavit, by
the legal representative or successor in interest of such deceased respondent,
with the clerk of the supreme court, showing that such appeal has been
taken, and the death of the respondent therein, and that the appellant has
failed to make, or caused to be made, such substitution, such appeal shall be
deemed abandoned, and it shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme
court to enter ah order dismissing said appeal; and upon the filing of a certi
fied copy of such order in the office of clerk of the court from which such
appeal was taken, will be restored to and have full jurisdiction over the
action in which such appeal was taken, in the same manner, and to all
intents and purposes, and shall proceed thereon, as if no appeal had been
taken.
1876, ch. 47, § 1 : "An act to regulate proceedings in civil actions in case of death of party
pending appeals thereon." Approved February 25, 1876. 28 M. 08.
Sec. 5089. Same — On death of either party.— In all cases where an
appeal has been taken to the supreme court, and, after the case has been sub
mitted to the supreme court, but before the entry of judgment thereon in such
court, either party to such appeal dies, and the surviving parties to such ac
tion, or the legal representative or successor in interest of said deceased party
or either of them, shows by affidavit filed therein that such death has occurred,
it shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court to substitute the name
of the person so shown to be the legal representative or successor in interest
of such deceased party ; and the action shall thereupon proceed, and all sub
sequent proceedings had, and judgment be entered therein, for or against such
legal representative or successor in interest, or such jointly or alone, as the
case may be.
Sec. 5090. Witness defined. — A witness is a person whose declaration
under oath is received as evidence for any purpose, whether such declaration
is made on oral examination, or by deposition or affidavit.
Sec. 5091. Not competent witnesses.— The following persons are not
competent to testify in any action or proceeding:
First. Those who are of unsound mind, or intoxicated, at the time of their
production for examination.
Second. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of receiv
ing just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined, or of re
lating them truly.
Sec. 5092. Same — Examination by court.— The court before whom
an infant, or a person apparently of weak intellect, is produced as a witness,
may examine such person to ascertain his capacity, and whether he under
stands the nature and obligations of an oath ; and any court may inquire of
any person, what are the peculiar ceremonies observed by him in swearingr
which he deems most obligatory.
Sec 5093. When adverse party dead or insane. — It shall not be
competent for any party to an action, or interested in the event thereof, to
give evidence therein of or concerning any conversation with, or admission
of, a deceased or insane party or person, relative to any matter at issue be
tween the parties.
"whose testimony is received." Acts 1874, ch. 70, excepted cases when
d contract entered into in presence of third parties. 8 M. 351 ; 12 M. 407 ; 18 M. 527 ; 21 M. 108 ;
22 M. 397; 36 M. 202, 895; 37 M. 257; 38 M. 113. The principle involved in this section and,
the reasons for it are irU7 Barb. 586; 55 Barb. 337. H-O Yf\. lb 2. - f, ^4 6~V
M Sec 5094. Confidential relations — Ther<5 are particular relations in
which it is the policy of the law to encourage confidence, and preserve it in-
Tiolate; therefore a person cannot be examined as a witness in the following
cases :
Husband and wife. — First. A husband cannot be examined for or
against his wife, without her consent; nor a wife for or against her husband,
without his consent; nor can either, during the marriage or afterward, be,
without the consent of the other, examined as to any communication made
by one to the other during the marriage; but this exception does not apply
to a civil action or proceeding by one against the other, nor to a criminal ac
tion or proceeding for a crime committed by one against the other; nor to
proceedings supplementary to execution.
Attorneys. — Second. An attorney cannot, without the consent of his
client, be examined as to any communication made by the client to him, or
his advice given thereon, in the course of professional duty.
Priests. — Third. A clergyman or priest cannot, without the consent of
the person making the confession, be examined as to the confession made to
him in his professional character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the
church to which he belongs.
Physicians. — Fourth. A regular physician or surgeon cannot, without the
consent of his patient, be examined, in a civil action, as to any information ac
quired in attending the patient, which was necessary to enable him to pre
scribe or act for the patient.
Public officers. — Fifth. A public officer cannot be examined as to com
munications madafo him in official confidence, when the public interest would
suffer by the disclosure.
" nor to pro
ceedings supplementary to execution," to first subdivision. 4 M. 835; 19 M. 523; 27 M. 69; 85
M. 311. This principle prevailed at common law. 1 Greenlf. Ev. §§ 334, 835, 846.
Competent.
Sec 5095. Competent witnesses. — All persons, except as hereinafter
provided, having the power and faculty to perceive, and make known their
perceptions to others, may be witnesses. Neither parties nor other persons
who have an interest in the event of an action are excluded, nor those who
have been convicted of crime, nor persons on account of their religious opin
ions or belief; although, in every case, the credibility of the witnesses may be
drawn in question. *And on the trial of all indictments, complaints, and
other proceedings against persons charged with the commission of crimes or
offences, the person so charged shall, at his request, but not otherwise, be
deemed a competent witness; nor shall the neglect 6r refusal to testify create
any presumption against the defendant, nor shall such neglect be alluded to
or commented upon by the prosecuting attorney or by the court.
" But no defendant
in a criminal action or proceeding shall be a competent witness for himself, nor, until ac
quitted or convicted, for a codefendant." 1 M. 207; 4 M. 438; 10 M. 350; 14 M. 35, 105.
Sec. 5096. Same — Adverse party.— A party to the record of any civil
proceeding in law or equity, or a person for whose immediate benefit such,
proceeding is prosecuted or defended, may be examined as if under crossexamination
at the instance of the adverse party, or any of them, and for that
purpose may be compelled in the same manner and subject to the same rules
for examination as any other witness to testify, but the party calling for such
examination shall not be concluded thereby but may rebut.it by counter tes
timony.
1885, ch. 193: "An act regulating the admission of evidence in civil actions." Approved
March 7, 18S0. This principle prevailed in chancery courts (1 Greenlf. Ev. § 361 ; 2 Daniel,
Ch. Pr. 1044;' 10 Wheat. 307), and was enacted in many states (13 O. St. 273; 12 Kan. 453).
Sec. 5097. Confessions. — A confession of a defendant, whether made in.
the course of judicial proceedings, or to a private person, cannot be given in
evidence against him, when made under the influence of fear produced by
threats; nor is it sufficient to warrant his conviction, without evidence that
the offence charged has been committed.
Sec. 5098. Testimony of accomplice A conviction cannot be had
upon the testimony of an accomplice, unless he is corroborated by such other
evidence as tends to convict the defendant of the commission of the offence,
and the corroboration is not sufficient if it merely shows the commission of
the offence or the circumstances thereof.
Sec 5099. In prosecutions for counterfeiting bank-notes, etc la
all prosecutions for forging or counterfeiting any notes or bills of any banking
company or corporation, or for uttering, publishing or tendering in payment
as true, any forged or counterfeit bank-bills or notes, or for being possessed
thereof with the intent to utter and pass them as true, the testimony of the
president and cashier of such banks may be dispensed with, if their place of
residence is without this state, or more than forty miles from the place of
trial; and the testimony of any person acquainted with the signature of the
president or cashier of such banks, or who has knowledge of the difference in
the appearance of the true and counterfeit bills or notes thereof, may be ad
mitted to prove that any such bills or notes are counterfeit.
Sec. 5100. For uttering counterfeit treasury notes, etc In all
prosecutions for forging or counterfeiting any note, certificate, bill of credit,
or security issued on behalf of the United States, or on behalf of any state or
territory, or for uttering, publishing, or tendering in payment as true, any
such forged or counterfeit note, certificate, bill of credit, or security, or for
being possessed thereof with intent to utter and pass the same as true, the
certificate under oath of the secretary of the treasury, or of the treasurer of
the United States, or of the secretary or treasurer of any state or territory on
whose behalf such note, certificate, bill of credit or security purports to have
been issued, shall be admitted as evidence for the purpose of proving the
6ame to be forged or counterfeit.
Sec. 5101. In prosecutions for libel — In all criminal prosecutions or
indictments for libel, the truth may be given in evidence; and if it appears to
the jury that the matter charged as libelous is true, and was published with
good motives and justifiable ends, the party shall be acquitted; and the jury
shall have the right to determine the law and the fact.
Sec. 5102. In prosecutions for rape.— Proof of actual penetration into
the body is sufficient to sustain an indictment for rape, or for the crime against
nature.
Sec 5103. Proof of marriage.— When the fact of marriage is required
or offered to be proved before any court, evidence of the admission of such
fact by the party against whom the proceeding is instituted, or of general
repute, or of cohabitation as married persons, or any other circumstantial or
presumptive evidence from which the fact may be inferred, shall be compe
tent.
Sec. 5104. Same — Certificates — Becords— The original certificates
and records of marriage, made by the judge, justice or minister, as prescribed
by law, and the record thereof by the clerk of the district court, or a copy of
such record duly certified by such clerk, shall be received, in all courts and
places, as presumptive evidence of the fact of such marriage.
Sec. 5105. In divorce. — Divorces shall not be granted on the sole con
fessions, admissions or testimony of the parties, either in or out of court.
Sec 5106. Evidence to disprove loss.— Whenever any party to an ac
tion is permitted to prove by his own oath the loss of any instrument, in order
to admit other proof of the contents thereof, the adverse party may also be
examined by the court, on oath, to disprove such loss, and to account for such
instrument.
Sec 5107. Instrument for payment of money.— In any action
founded upon any negotiable promissory note, bill of exchange, bond or
other instrument for the payment of money, or in which such note, bill, bond
or other instrument might be allowed as a set-off in the defense of any action,
if it appears on the trial that such note, bill, bond or other instrument was
lost while it belonged to the party claiming the amount due thereon, parol or
other evidence of the contents thereof may be given on such trial, and not
withstanding such note, bill, bond or other instrument was negotiable, such
party shall be entitled to receive the amount due thereon, as if such note, bill,
bond or other instrument had been produced.
" bond or other instrument for the payment of money." 14 M. 406.
Sec 5108. Same — Indemnity bond.— But to entitle a party to a re
covery on a negotiable promissory note, bill of exchange, bond or other
instrument for the payment of money, which has been lost, he shall, before
judgment is entered, execute a bond to the adverse party, in a penalty at
least double the amount of such note, bill, bond or other instrument, with
at least two sureties to be approved by the court in which the recovery is had,
or the clerk thereof in case no trial is had, conditioned to indemnify the ad-
verse part}7, his heirs and personal representatives, against all claims by any
other persons on account of such note, bill, or other instrument and against
all costs and expenses by reason of such claims; provided, that in case the
statute of limitations shall have run against such note, bill, bond or other in
strument while the action is pending and before a recovery is had thereon,
the court in which the action is pending may, in its discretion, reduce the
amount of the penalty of such indemnity bond or permit judgment to be en
tered without such bond.
" bond or other instrument for the payment of money," and added the proviso.
Obal Proceedings Befoee Justices.
Sec. 5109. How proved.— The proceedings in any cause had before a
justice, not reduced to writing by said justice, nor being the contents of any
paper or document produced before said justice, unless such paper or document
is lost or destroyed, may be proved by the oath of the justice. In case of his
death or absence, they may be proved by producing the original minutes of
such proceeding entered in a book kept by such justice, accompanied by proof
of his handwriting; or they may be proved by producing copies of such min
utes, sworn to by a competent witness as having been compared by him with
the original entries, with proof that such entries were in the handwriting of
the justice.
Sec. 5110. By copy of minutes. — A copy of the minutes of any convic
tion and judgment, duly certified by the clerk in whose custody such minutes
are, under his official seal, together with a copy of the indictment on which
the conviction was had, certified in the same manner, shall be evidence, in all
courts and places, of such conviction and judgment, without the production of
the judgment-roll.
Sec. 5111. By certificate of justice. — Every certificate of conviction
made and filed by a justice under the provisions of law, or a duly certified
copy thereof, is evidence, in all courts and places, of the facts therein con
tained.
Sec. 5112. Prima facie evidence. — "Whenever a party in any cause or
proceeding produces at the trial his account books, and proves that said books
are his books of account kept for that purpose, that they contain the original
entries of charges for moneys paid, or goods or other articles delivered, or
work and labor or other services performed, or materials furnished; that the
charges therein were made at the time of the transactions therein entered ;
that the}' were in the handwriting of some person authorized to make charges
in said books, and are just and true as the person making such proof verily be
lieves, the witness by whom said books are sought to be proved being subject
to all the rules of cross-examination, and said books subject to all just excep
tions as to their credibility, said books shall be received as prima facie evidence
of the charges therein contained.
Section and repealed section 71. 21 It 225; 22 M. 19; 32 M. 50; 36 M. 194.
Sec 5113. Ledger to be produced, when— Where a book has marks
which show that the items have been transferred to a ledger, the book shall
not be testimony unless the ledger is produced.
Sec. 5114. Entries by person deceased. — Any entries made in a book
by a person authorized to make the same, he being dead, may be received as
evidence, in a case proper for the admission of such book as evidence, on proof
that the same are in his handwriting, and in a book kept for such entries, with
out further verification.
Q. S. ch. 73, § 73 (80).
Bills and Notes.
Sec 5115. Signatures presumed genuine — In actions brought on
promissory notes or bills of exchange by the indorsee, the possession of the
note or bill is prima facie evidence that the same was indorsed by the person
by whom it purports to be endorsed; and every written instrument purport
ing to have been signed or executed by any person shall be proof that it was
so signed or executed, until the person by whom it purports to have been
signed or executed shall deny the signature or execution of the same by his
oath or affidavit; but this section shall not extend to instruments purporting
to have been signed or executed by any person who shall have died previous
to the requirement of such proof.
Sec. 5116. Indorsement of money received An indorsement of
money received, on any promissory note, which appears to have been made
when it was against the interest of the holder to make it, is prima facie evi
dence of the facts therein contained.
Sec 5117. Existence of corporation or partnership.— In all actions
brought by any corporation, or by any persons as copartners, or by the en
dorsers of any such corporation or copartners, upon any promissory note, bill
of exchange, or other written instrument for the payment of money only, ex
ecuted and delivered by the defendant to such corporation by its corporate
name, or to such plaintiffs or copartners by their firm name, the production
in evidence of the instrument upon which such action is brought shall be prima,
facie evidence of the existence of such corporation, and that the persons
named as payees in such written instrument are, and at the time of the execu
tion of said instrument were, such copartners.
1876, ch. 82, § 3: " An act in reference to pleadings and evidence in certain civil actions."
Approved February 25, 1876. Sections 1, 2, 4 of this act provide that allegation of corpora
tion or copartnership need not be proved unless expressly denied. 30 M. 810.
Affidavits.
Sec. 5118. Of publication The affidavit of the printer, or foreman of
such printer, of any newspaper published in this state, of the publication of
any notice or advertisement which by any law of this state is required to be
published in such newspaper, is prima facie evidence of such publication, and
of the facts stated therein.
Sec. 5119. Taken without the State. — All oaths or affidavits taken out
of the state, before any officer authorized to administer oaths, and certified by
the clerk of a court of record, may be useil and read upon the argument of
anv motion, to the same extent, and with like effect, as if taken within this
state: provided, that if such affidavit is taken before a notary public, or com
missioner for this state, no such certificate shall be required.
Sec. 5120. Of publication prior to 1870.— When any legal notice ap
pears in any printed newspaper purporting to be published in this state prior
291
to the year eighteen hundred and seventy, filed with the State Historical So
ciety of this state, the secretary or other officer of such society may make an
affidavit setting forth a copy of such notice and stating that the same is a
true copy of such notice contained in such printed newspaper, the name, place
where it purports to have been published, and the date or dates of the differ
ent issues or numbers thereof containing such notice, and so on file. Such
affidavit may be recorded in the office of register of deeds of any county in
which any real estate affected by such notice is situated, and shall be evidence
that such newspaper, with such notice therein, was regularly published at the
times and at the place so stated. If the sheriff's certificate of any foreclosure
sale was made and recorded prior to the year eighteen hundred and seventy,
and if any copy of the notice of such foreclosure sale, or of any adjournment
thereof is contained, in any newspaper so on file, and the numbers or issues so
on file are of the proper date or dates for the publication of such notice or
adjournment, but some of the numbers or issues, or parts of numbers or issues
of such paper, of the proper date or dates for the publication of such notice
or adjournment are missing from, or cannot be found amongst the papers of
said society, such affidavit may state the dates of such numbers or issues so
on file, and of such numbers or issues which cannot be found on file with said
society, and such affidavit when so recorded shall be evidence so far as such
certificate shows such publication of such notice in said paper.
1889, ch. 270: "An act for procuring evidence of the publication of legal notices in news
papers filed with the State Historical Society." Approved March 9, 1889.
Conveyances.
Sec. 5121. Conveyances, and copies of records.— All conveyances of
real estate, and other instruments authorized by law to be recorded, and
which are acknowledged or proved as provided by law, and, if the same have
been recorded, the record or a transcript thereof, certified by the register in
whose office the sanle is recorded, may be read in evidence without further
proof; but the effect of such evidence may be rebutted by other competent
testimony.
Sec. 5122. Same — Whether duly recorded— That in all cases where
deeds or other conveyances of real estate within this state, or letters of at
torney authorizing the same, have heretofore been actually recorded in the
office of the register of deeds, for the county where the real estate thereby
affected was at the time of the making of such records, or is situate, whether
such deeds, conveyances and letters of attorney were duly and properly ad
mitted to record or otherwise, all such records may nevertheless be read in
evidence in any court within this state, and shall bo received as prima facie
evidence of the contents of the original instruments of which they purport to
be the records, and all such records shall in all respects have the same force
and effect as they would have if such original instruments at the time they
wer3 so recorded had been legally entitled to record.
That duly authenticated copies of aforesaid record may be read in evidence
in any court within this state, with the same effect as the records themselves
aforesaid; provided, that nothing in this act shall be held to affect any vested
rights nor apply to any action commenced or now pending in any of the
courts of this state.
1885, ch. 179: " An act relating to the records in the offices of the register of deeda" Ap
proved February 27, 1885.
Written Instruments Acknowledged.
Sec. 5123. When evidence. — Every written instrument, except promis
sory notes and bills of exchange, and except the last wills of deceased persons,
may be proved or acknowledged in the manner now provided bylaw for taking
the proof or acknowledgment of conveyances of real estate; and the certifi
cate of the proper officer indorsed thereon shall entitle such instrument to be
read in evidence in all courts of justice, and all proceedings before any officer,
body or board, with the same effect, and in the same manner, as if such in
strument was a conveyance of real estate.
Sec. 5124. "When evidence.— Copies of all papers, documents or writ
ings required by law to be filed or left in any public office in this state, and
transcripts of any public records kept therein, certified by the officer having
custody of the same, under his official seal, if he has one, are admissible in
evidence, with the like effect and to the same extent as the originals.
Sec 5125. Form of certificate — Whenever a certified copy of an affi
davit, record, document or other paper, is allowed by law to be evidence, such
copy shall be certified by the officer in whose custody the same is required by
law to be, to have been compared by him with the original, and to be a cor
rect transcript therefrom; and if such officer have any official seal by law,
such certificate shall be authenticated by such seal; * but this section shall not
apply to any record, document or any papers kept in the departments or offices
of the United States government.
Sec 5126. Same — Limitation. — But the preceding section shall not be
construed to require the affixing of the seal of the court to any certified copy
of a rule or order made by such court, or of any paper filed therein, when
Such copy is used in the same court, or before any officer thereof.
Sec 5127. Certificate that paper not in office.— When any officer to
whom the legal custody of any documents, instrument or paper belongs, shall
certify, under his official seal, that he has made diligent examination in his
office for such paper, instrument or document, and that it cannot be found,
such certificate is presumptive evidence of the fact so certified, in all causes,
matters and proceedings, in the same manner, and with like effect, as if such
officer had personally testified to the same in the court or before the officer
before whom such cause, matter or proceeding may be pending.
Sec 5128. Of United States records.— That copies' of all or any
records, papers or documents belonging to and being in any of the govern
mental departments of the United States, authenticated as such, and in ac
cordance with the laws of the United States to entitle such records, papers
or documents to be received as evidence in the courts of the United States,
shall be received and admitted as evidence in all the courts of the state of
Minnesota.
1878, ch. 52, § 1 : " An act making copies of certain records and other papers and certain
certificates evidence in the courts of this state." Approved March 12, 1878.
Certified Copy of Decision or Document.
Sec 5129. Certify under seal.— That the state librarian, upon the ap
plication of any person may make out and certify, under his official seal, a
copy or copies of any judicial decision of any report or proceeding contained
in any of the laws or equity reports in his office or under his charge, as such
librarian, and of any other document or paper in his custody, and any such
certified copy may be used and read before any judge or court, or in any legal
proceeding to the same effect as the original book, report, document or paper,
could or might be used if produced before such judge, court or other author
ity, and he shall be entitled to charge for the same at the rate of fifteen cents
per folio.
1879, ch. 89 : " An act authorizing the state librarian to make and certify copies of judicial
decisions and other documents in his custody and provide for the use of the same." Approved
March 4, 1879.
Land-office Recoeds.
Sec. 5130. Receipt or certificate. — The receipt or certificate, signed by
the register or receiver of any United States land-office, of the entry or pur
chase of any tract of land, or of the location of any tract by a military land
warrant, is prima facie evidence, in the courts of this state, that the title of
the lands mentioned or described in said receipt or certificate is in the person
named therein, his heirs or assigns.
Sec. 5131. Same — Record of.— That the duplicate, or receiver's final
receipt, issued from the respective United States land-offices in this state, shall
be entitled to record in the office of the register of deeds of the county in
which the land therein described is located; and all such records shall have
the same force and effect in law,, with respect to notice and title, as the record
of the patent to such land would have.
1878, ch. 51 : " An act to make certain papers in the land department of the United States
within the state of Minnesota matters of record in the office of register of deeds." Approved
March 11, 1878.
Sec. 5132. Certificate of entry— That the certificate of the register or
receiver of any of the United States land-ofiices within this state, showing by
whom, when and how, any lands within this "state were entered under the
homestead, pre-emption or timber-culture laws of the United States, shall be
prima facie evidence, in all the courts of this state, that the person named
therein was, at the date of such entry, the owner in fee of such lands.
1878, ch. 52, § 2 : " An act making copies of certain records and other papers and certain
certificates evidence in the courts of this state." Approved March 12, 1878. 29 M. 28fi; 3i»
N. W. 98. '
Sec 5133. Patents and duplicates — Patents issued by the United
States of land in the state, or duplicates thereof from the records in the gen
eral land-office of the United States, certified by the commissioner of such
land-office, may be recorded in the registry of deeds of the county in which
the land described in the patent is situated; and the record of such patents or
duplicates, or copies of such records certified by the register of deeds, are evi
dence, in like manner and to the same extent, as the records, or transcripts
thereof, of other conveyances of real estate.
Sec. 5134. Plats of surveys — All plats of surveys of public lands, certi
fied by the register of the land-office of the district in which such land is sit
uated, to be a true copy of the certified copy on file in his office of the original
plat thereof, and all certificates, by the register of such land-office, of the sur
veys or entry and location of, or other facts in relation to, such lands, taken
from the books of such land-office, or from the certificate indorsed on the copy
of the original plat on file therein, are prima facie evidence of the facts therein
stated. The certificate of the county surveyor, or any of his deputies, shall
be admitted as legal evidence; but the same may be explained or rebutted bv
other evidence.
Sec. 5135. Of this state. — The printed copies of all statutes, acts and re
solves of this state, whether of a public or private nature, which are published
under the authority of the state, are admissible, as sufficient evidence thereof,
in all courts of law, and on all occasions whatsoever.
" be competent evi
dence of the several acts and resolutions therein contained in all the courts of this state with
out further proof or authentication." Acts 1881, Ex. S. ch. 75, enacted same provision as to sup
plement in G. S. 4 M. 335. This is the general rule. 4 Cranch, 388 ; 1 Dall. 463 ; 6 Binn. 321 ;
Rus. & Ry. 275:
Sec 5136. Of Other states. — Printed copies of the statute laws of any
state or territory of the United States, if purporting to be published under the
authority of their respective governments, or if commonly admitted and read
as evidence in their courts, are admissible in all courts of law, and on all other
occasions, in this state, as primafacie evidence of such laws.
Sec. 5137. City ordinances. — Whenever the by-laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations of any city of this state, incorporated under the provisions
of chapter thirty-one of the laws of one thousand eight hundred and seventy,
entitled " An act to authorize the incorporation of cities," or by any special
act prior to or subsequent to that date, have been or shall hereafter be printed
and published by authority of the corporation, the same shall be received in
evidence in all courts and places, without further proof.
1873, ch. 68 : " An act concerning the proof of city ordinances." Approved March 6, 1878.
Foreign Laws.
Sec. 5138. Proof of.— The existence, and the tenor or effect of all foreign
laws may be proved as facts, by parol evidence; but if it appears that the law
in question is contained in a written statute or code, the court may, in its
discretion, reject any evidence of such law that is not accompanied by a copy
thereof.
Sec. 5139. Laws of Other States.— The unwritten or common law of any
state or territory of the United States may be proved as facts by parol evi
dence; and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts may also be
admitted as evidence of such law.
Sec. 5140. Evidence before justice. — Whenever it becomes necessary,
in an action before a justice of the peace, to give evidence of a judgment or
other proceedings had before him, the docket of such judgment or other pro
ceeding, or a transcript thereof certified by him, shall be good evidence thereof
before such justice.
Sec. 5141. Transcript from justice's docket— A transcript from the
docket of any justice of the peace of any judgment had before him, of the
proceedings in the case previous to such judgment, of the execution issued
thereon, if any, and of the return to such execution, if any, when certified by
such justice, is evidence to prove the facts contained in such transcript, in any
court in the county where such judgment was rendered.
Sec. 5142. Same. — To entitle such transcript to be read in evidence in. a
different county than that in which the judgment was rendered, or the pro
ceedings originated, there shall be attached thereto, or indorsed thereon, a
certificate of the clerk of the district court of the county in which such justice
resides, under the seal of said court, specifying that the person subscribing'
such transcript was, at the date of the judgment therein mentioned, a justice
of the peace of such county.
Sec. 5143. Judgment of justice in another state. — An exemplifica
tion of a judgment rendered by any justice of the peace, in any state or ter
ritory of the United States, officially certified by such justice or his successor
in office as a full and correct copy of all the proceedings in that case from his
docket, with a certificate of magistracy thereon, signed and authenticated by
a clerk of a court of record in the county where such judgment was rendered,
with the seal thereof attached, is evidence, in any court in this state, to prove
the facts contained in such exemplification.
" or his successor in office." 19 M. 239.
Records ok Foreign Couets.
Sec. 5144. Records of foreign courts, when— The records and ju
dicial proceedings of any court of any state or territory, or of the United
States, shall be admissible in evidence, in all cases in this state, when authen
ticated by the attestation of the clerk, prothonotary, or other officer having
charge of the records of such court, with the seal of such court annexed.
Sec. 5145. When and how.— The court before which an action is pend
ing, or a judge thereof, may order either party to give to the other, within a
specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of any
book, document or paper in his possession or under his control, containing
evidence relating to the merits of. the action, or the defence therein; if com
pliance with the order is refused, the court may exclude the book, document
or paper from being given in evidence, or, if wanted as evidence by the party
applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he alleges it to be";
and the court may also punish the party refusing. This section is not to be
construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce books,
papers or documents, when he is examined as a witness.
Sec. 5146. When and by whom issued.— Ever}' clerk of a court of
record and every justice of the peace may issue subpoenas for witnesses in all
civil cases pending before the court, or before any magistrates, arbitrators, or
other persons authorized to examine witnesses, and in all contests concerning
lands before the register and receiver of any land-office in this state.
Sec. 514Y. How served. — Such subpoena may be served by any person,
by exhibiting and reading it to the witness, or by giving him a copy thereof,
or by leaving such copy at the place of his abode.
Sec 5148. Liability for disobedience. — If any person duly subpoenaed
and obliged to attend as a witness fails to do so, without any reasonable ex
cuse, he is liable to the aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by such
failure, to be recovered in a civil action.
Sec 5149. Same — Contempt.— Such failure to attend as a witness, if
the subpoena issues out of any court of record, is a contempt of the court, and
may be punished by fine not exceeding twenty dollars.
Sec. 5150. Attachment for delinquent witness The court, in such
case, may issue an attachment to bring such witness before it, to answer for
the contempt, and also to testify as a witness in the action or proceeding in
which he was subpceuaed.
Sec 5151. The mode obligatory on witness.— Whenever the court be
fore which an}' person is offered as a witness is satisfied that such person has
any peculiar mode of swearing, which is more solemn and obligatory, in the
opinion of such person, than the usual mode, the court may, in its discretion,
adopt such mode of swearing such person.
Sec. 5152. According to witness' religion.— Every person believing
in any other than the christian religion shall be sworn according to the pecul
iar ceremonies of his religion, if there are any such ceremonies.
Sec. 5153. May affirm — Every person who declares that he has consci
entious scruples against taking an oath, or swearing in any form, shall be per
mitted to make his solemn declaration or affirmation.
Sec. 5154. Authorized.— Depositions may be taken in the manner, and
according to the regulations, provided in this chapter, to be used before any
magistrates or other persons authorized to examine witnesses, in any other
than criminal cases.
Sec. 5155. In criminal cases. — That upon cause shown to the court
wherein any criminal action is pending, the judge thereof may, by order, allow
depositions of witnesses on behalf of the prisoner to be taken in the same
manner and in the like cases where depositions ma}' be taken in civil actions;
and the depositions so taken may be used upon the trial of such prisoner, in
his behalf, as depositions are now allowed and used in civil actions. Pro
vided, that the expense attending the taking and return of such depositions
shall be paid by the defendant in such action, except the court shall other
wise direct, by order duly entered upon the minutes of the court.
1876, ch. 57: "An act providing for the taking of depositions in behalf of persons accused
of crime." Approved February 25, 1876.
Sec. 5156. When.— When a witness whose testimony is wanted in any
civil cause pending in this state, lives more than thirty miles from the place
of trial, or is about to go out of the state, and not to return in time for trial,
or is so sick, infirm or aged as to make it probable that he will not be able to
attend at the trial, his deposition may be taken in the manner hereinafter
provided.
" permanent sickness or other permanent infirmity."
Sec 5157. Time, place and notice. — At any time after the cause is com
menced by the service of process or otherwise, or after it is submitted to arbi
trators or referees, either party may apply to any justice of the peace, who
shall issue a notice to the adverse party, to appear before the said justice, or
any other justice of the peace, at the time and place appointed for taking the
deposition, and to put such interrogatories as he may see fit.
Sec 5158. Service Of notice.— The said notice may be served on the
agent or attorney of the adverse party, and shall have the same effect as if
served on the party himself.
Sec 5159. Same — On party. — When there are several persons, plaint
iffs or defendants, a notice served on either of them is sufficient.
Sec 5160. Same — Manner of.— The notice shall be served by deliver
ing an attested copy thereof to the person to be notified, or by leaving such
copy at his place of abode, allowing in all cases not less than tweut3'-four
hours after such notice before the time appointed for taking the depositions,
and also allowing time for his travel to the place appointed after being noti
fied, not less than at the rate of one day, Sundays excepted, for every twenty
miles travel.
Sec. 5161. Same — Waived.— The written notice before prescribed may
be wholly omitted, if the adverse party, or his attorney, in writing, waives
the right to it.
Sec. 5162. Witnesses compelled to attend.— Any witness may bo sub
poenaed and compelled to give his deposition, at any place within twenty miles
of his abode, in like manner, and under the same penalties, as he may be sub
poenaed and compelled to attend as a witness in any court.
Sec. 5164. Same — Order of.— The party producing the deponent shall
be allowed first to examine him, either upon verbal or written interrogatories,
on all points which he deems material, and then the adverse party may ex
amine the deponent in like manner; after which either party may propose
such further interrogatories as the case requires.
Sec. 5165. To be written, read and signed — The deposition shall be
written by the justice or by the deponent, or by some disinterested person, in
the presence and under the direction of the justice, and be carefully read to
or by the deponent, and shall then be subscribed by him.
Sec. 5166. Certificate. — The justice shall annex to the deposition a cer
tificate substantially as follows:
State ob* Minnesota, )
County of . \ ss'
I, A. R, justice of the peace in and for said county, do hereby certify that
the above deposition was taken before me, at my office in the in said
county, on the day of , 18 —, at o'clock, ; that it was taken
at the request of the plaintiff (or defendant), upon verbal (or written) inter
rogatories; that it was reduced to writing by myself (or by deponent, o'r by
, a disinterested person, in my presence and under my direction);
that it was taken to be used in the suit of A. B. vs. C. D., now pending in
court; and that the reason for taking it was (here state the true reason);
that attended at the taking of said deposition (or, that a notice, of
which the annexed is a copy, was served upon him, on the day of ,
18—); that said deponent, before examination, was sworn to testify the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, relative to the said cause, and that the said
deposition was carefully read to (or by) said deponent, and then subscribed
by him.
Dated at , the day of , one thousand eight hundred and .
A. B., J ustice of the Peace.
Sec 5167. Delivery of. — The deposition shall be delivered by the justice
to the court, or arbitrators, or referees, before whom the cause is pending, or
shall be inclosed and sealed by him, and directed to them, and shall remain
sealed until opened by said court, or the clerk thereof, or arbitrators, or
referees.
Sec 5168. Objections to. — Every objection to the competency or credi
bility of the deponent, and to the propriety of any question put to him, or of
any answer made by him, may be made when the deposition is produced, in
the same manner as if the witness was personally examined on the trial: pro
vided, that all objections to the form of any interrogatory shall be made before
it is answered, and, if the interrogatory is not withdrawn, the objection shall
be noted in the deposition; otherwise the objection shall not be afterward
entertained.
Sec. 5169. When not to be used.— No deposition shall be used if it
appears that the reason for taking it no longer exists: provided, that if the
party producing the deposition in such case shows any sufficient cause then
existing for using such deposition, it may be admitted.
Q. S. ch. 73, g 27. 18 M. 500.
Sec. 5170. Used in second action, when.— When the plaintiff in any
action discontinues it, or it is dismissed for any cause, and another action is
afterward commenced for the same cause between the same parties, or their
respective representatives, all depositions lawfulty taken for the first action
may be used in the second^ in the same manner, and subject to the same con
ditions and objections, as if originally taken for the second action: provided,
that the deposition has been duly filed in the court where the first action was
pending, and remained' in the custody of the court, from the termination of the
first action until the commencement of the second.
Sec. 5171. Used on appeal of action, how.—When an action is appealed
from one court to another, all depositions lawfully taken to be used in the court
below may be used in the appellate court, in the same manner, and subject to the
same exceptions for informality or 'irregularity, as were taken to such deposi
tions in writing in the court below.
Sec. 5172. How and before whom taken. — Any witness may be sub
poenaed and compelled, in like manner, and under the same penalties, as are
prescribed in this chapter, to give his deposition in any cause pending in a
court in any state or government, which deposition may be taken before any
justice of the peace in this state, or before any commissioners that may be
appointed under the authority of the state or government in which the action
is pending; and if the deposition is taken before such commissioners, the wit
ness may be subpoenaed and compelled to appear before them, by process from
any justice of the peace in this state.
Sec. 5173. Under a commission The deposition of any witness with
out this state may be taken under a commission issued to any competent per
son in any state or country, by the court in which the cause is pending, or
upon a reference as hereinafter provided; and the deposition may be used in
the same manner, and subject to the same conditions and objections, as if it
had been taken in this state.
Sec. 5174. When commission may issue No commission shall be
issued to take testimony out of this state, except in the following cases:
First. When an issue has been joined in an action in a court of record in
this state, and it shall appear, on the application of either party, that any
witness not residing in this state is material in the prosecution or defence of
such action, and that due notice of such application was served upon the ad
verse party at least eight days before the application is made;
Second. When, in an action commenced in a court of record in this state,
the time of answering the complaint has expired, and the defendant has not
answered or demurred to the said complaint, and it appears, upon the applica
tion of the plaintiff, that the testimony of any witness not residing in this
state is material and necessary to establish the facts stated in the complaint,
and to enable the court to render judgment in such action.
Sec. 5175. Interrogatories and cross-interrogatories.— When the
application is made by the plaintiff, and there has been no appearance for the
defendant in the action, it may be made ex parte, and without notice; and
the deposition ma}' be taken upon interrogatories filed by the plaintiff, and
annexed to the commission. In all other cases, such depositions shall be
taken under a commission, and upon written interrogatories, to be exhibited
to the adverse party or his attorney, and cross-interrogatories, to be filed by
him, if he sees n't: provided, that the parties may, by stipulation in writing,
agree upon any other mode of taking depositions, and, when taken pursuant
to such stipulations, they may be used upon the trial, with like force and
effect, in all respects, as if taken upon the commission and written interroga
tories as herein provided.
Sec 5176. Upon notice — Service Of notice.— Whenever the testimony
of any person within or without this state or in any other portion of the
United States is wanted in any civil action or proceeding in any court of this
state, the same may be taken by and before any officer authorized to ad
minister an oath in the state or territory or district of the United States in
which the testimony of such person may be taken, upon notice to the ad
verse party of the time and place of taking the same. Such notice shall be
in writing, and shall be served as other notices in civil actions are required to
be served, and shall be served so as to allow the adverse party sufficient time,*
by the usual route of travel, allowing one day for every one hundred miles of
distance between the place of the service of the notice and the place of the
taking of such testimony, and one day for preparation, exclusive of Sundays
and the day of service; and the examination may, if so stated in the notice,
be adjourned from day to day:* provided, that the justice of the peace, or
judge of the court before which, or the court commissioner of the county in
which, the action is pending, may, on motion, and by order in the cause, des
ignate the time and place for the taking of the testimony, and the time within
which a copy of the order shall be served on the adverse party or his attorney :
and provided further, that whenever the defendant in any action or proceed
ing is in default for want of an answer or other defence, such notice or order
need not be served upon him.
1873, ch. 61, § 2, as amended 1876, ch. 68 (March 4): 1885, ch. 03 (February 26); 1887, ch.
185 (February 21). Acts 1873, ch. 61, entitled " An act to provide a more efficient method for
the taking of depositions of persons without the state." Approved March 11. 1873. Acts
1876, ch. 68, § 1. inserted matter between * *. Acts 1885 inserted " within or" after word
" person " in second line. Acts 1887 inserted " or in any other p>rtion of the United States "
after word "state" in second line, and "or district of the United States" after word "ter
ritory" in fifth line.
Sec. 5177. Same — How taken, authenticated and returned.— At
the time and place specified in the notice or order, or within one hour there
after, the examination shall commence. Each witness shall, before testifying,
be sworn by the officer to testify the whole truth and nothing but the truth
relative to the cause specified in the notice or order. The testimony shall be
written by the officer. The proceeding may be adjourned from day to day
until the examinations are closed. Either party may appear in person, or by
an agent or attorney, and take part in the examination. The testimony of
each witness, when completed, shall be carefully read over by the officer to
him, whereupon he may add thereto or qualify the same as he may desire.
When the deposition is completed, the witness shall sign his name, or make
his mark, at the end thereof, as well as upon each piece of paper on which any
portion of his testimony is written. Thereupon the officer taking such depo
sition shall annex thereto a copy of the notice or order, and a certificate, under
his hand and official seal (if he have one), stating what office he held and ex
ercised when taking such depositions, and that, by virtue thereof, he was then
and there authorized to administer an oath, and that each witness, before tes
tifying, was duly sworn to testify the whole truth and' nothing but the truth
relative to the cause specified in the notice or order, and that each of such
depositions were taken pursuant to such notice or order, and who, if any one,
examined for the parties respectively. Such certificate shall be prima facie
evidence of the matters therein stated, and it may be substantially in the fol
lowing form:
State of
County of . f
Be it known, that I took the annexed depositions pursuant to the annexed
notice (or order); that I was then and there (state the title of the officer); that
I exercised the power of that office in taking such deposition ; that, by virtue
thereof, I was then and there authorized to administer an oath; that each wit
ness, before testifying, was duly sworn to testify the whole truth and nothing
but the truth relative to the cause specified in the* annexed notice (or order);
that the testimony of each witness was correctly read over to him by me be
fore he signed the same; that the examination was conducted on behalf of the
plaintiff by ; that the examination was conducted on behalf of the
defendant by .
Witness my hand and seal this day of , A. D. 18—.
Such depositions shall be returned by mail to the justice of the peace before
whom the cause is pending, or, if it be pending in a probate court, to the judge
thereof, or if it be pending in any other court of record, then to the clerk
thereof; and upon their return, they shall be opened and subject to the in
spection of either party.
1873, ch. 61, § 2. 29 M. 268 ; 35 M. 478 ; 36 M. 245; 41 N. W. 489.
Sec 5178. Same — Objections. — Such deposition maybe read in evi
dence at the trial of the action or proceeding; but when the same is offered
in evidence, objection may be interposed to the competency of the witness, or
to any question put to him, or to the whole or any part of his testimony, in
like manner, upon the same grounds, and with the like effect, as if the witness was
there testifying in open court: provided, that no objection to the form of any
question, can be made, unless such objection was made before, and noted by
the officer taking such deposition.
1873, ch. 61, § 8. 34 M. 438.
Sec. 5179. Same — Informalities and defects.— Ko informality, error
or defect in any proceeding under this statute shall be sufficient ground for
excluding the deposition, unless the party making objection thereto shall
make it appear, to the satisfaction of the court, that the officer taking such
deposition was not authorized to administer an oath then and there, or that
such party was, by such informality, error or defect, precluded from appear
ing and cross-examining the witness; and ever}' objection to the sufficiency
of the notice, or to the manner of taking, or certifj'ing, or returning such
depositions, shall be deemed to have been forever waived, unless such objec
tions are taken by motion to suppress such depositions, which motion shall
be made within ten days after service of such notice in writing of the return
thereof.
Sec. 5180. Same — Costs. — Whenever any party shall, under the pro
vision of this act, serve notice of the taking of the testimony of any person,
and the adverse party shall, by himself or attorney, in pursuance of such no
tice, attend at the time and place therein named, and the party serving such
notice shall fail or neglect to appear and proceed with the taking of such tes
timony, the justice of the peace, or judge of the court, before whom, or in
which, [the] action is pending, shall allow such adverse party such sum for
expenses and for attorney's fees incurred in making such attendance as he
shall deem proper, which sum shall be collected in the same manner as other
costs and disbursements in the action or proceeding.
1876, ch. 68, § 2: " An act to amend chapter 61, laws of 1873, entitled 'an act to provide a
more efficient method for the taking of depositions of persons without the state,' " by amend
ing section 1 and adding foregoing section to said chapter. Approved March 4, 1876.
TITLE 4.
PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.
Witnesses Within the State.
Sec. 5181. Application.— When any person is desirous to perpetuate the
testimony of any witness, he shall make a statement in writing, setting forth
briefly and substantially his title, claim or interest, in or to the subject con
cerning which he desires to perpetuate the evidence, and the names of all
other persons interested or supposed to be interested therein, their residences,
if known, and if unknown it shall be so stated, and also the name of the wit
ness proposed to be examined, and shall deliver the said statement to the
judge of a court of record, requesting him to take the deposition of the said
witness.
Sec. 5182. Witnesses compelled to attend.— Any witness may be sub
poenaed and compelled to give his deposition in perpetual remembrance of
the thing, as before prescribed, in like manner, and under the same penalties,
as are provided in this chapter respecting other depositions taken in this state.
Sec 5183. Notice. — The said juilge shall thereupon cause notice to be
given of the time and place appointed for taking the deposition, to all persons
mentioned in the said statement as interested in the case, which notice shall
be given in the same manner as is prescribed in this chapter respecting notice
upon taking a deposition in this state, to be used in an\' cause here pending:
provided, that in all cases where the judge is satisfied that, by reason of the
non-residence of any of the persons in this state, or for any other cause, it will
be impossible to serve the notice as aforesaid, he may direct notice to be given
by publishing the same for three successive weeks in a newspaper printed and
published in the county where the applicant resides, or if there is none, then
in a newspaper printed and published at the capital of the state. '
Sec 5184. How taken — Certificate.— The deponent shall be sworn and
examined, and his deposition shall be written, read and subscribed, in the
same manner as is prescribed respecting the other depositions before men
tioned; and the judge shall annex thereto a certificate, under his hand, of the
time and manner of taking it, and that it was taken in perpetual remembrance
of the thing, and he shall also insert in the certificate the names of the per
sons at whose request it was taken, and of all those who were notified to at
tend, and of all those who did attend the taking thereof.
Sec 5185. To be recorded. — The deposition, with the certificate, and
also the written statement of the party at whose request it was taken, shall,
within ninety days after the taking thereof, be recorded in the registry of
deeds in the county where the land lies, if the deposition relates to real es
tate ; otherwise in the county where the party applying for such deposition
resides.
Sec. 5186. Use of. — If any action, either at the time of taking such dep
osition, or at an}r time afterward, is pending between the person at whose
request it was taken, and the persons named in the written statement, or any
of them, or any person claiming under either of the said parties respectively,
concerning the title, claim or interest set forth in the statement, the deposition
so taken, or a certified copy of it from the registry of deeds, may be used in
such action, in the same manner, and subject to the same conditions and ob
jections, as if it had been originally taken for the said action.
Sec. 5187. Commission for. — Depositions to perpetuate the testimony
of witnesses living without this state may be taken in any state, or in any for
eign country, upon a commission to be issued by any court of record, in the
manner hereinafter provided.
Sec. 5188. Statement.— The person who proposes to take the deposition
shall apply to the judge of any such court, and deliver to him a statement like
that before prescribed to be delivered to the judge or justice of the peace upon
taking such a deposition within this state; and if the subject of the proposed
deposition relates to real estate within this state, the statement shall be tiled
in the county where the lands, or any part thereof, lies; otherwise, in the
county where the applicant resides.
Sec. 5189. Notice — Service of. — The court shall order notice of such
application to be served on all the persons mentioned in such statement, and
living within the state, which notice shall be served fourteen days, at least,
before the time appointed for hearing the parties: provided, that if any of
said parties reside out of this state, or if their residence is unknown to the
applicant, the judge shall order notice to be served on them by publishing the
same, for three successive weeks, in a newspaper printed and published in
the county where the applicant resides, or if there is none, then in a news
paper printed and published at the capital of the state.
Sec 5190. When commission to issue.— If, upon such hearing of the
parties, or of the applicant alone, should no adverse party appear, the judge
is satisfied that there is sufficient cause for taking the deposition, he shall issue
a commission therefor, in like manner as for taking a deposition to be used in
anjr cause pending in the same court.
Sec 5191. How taken and returned.— The deposition shall be taken
upon written interrogatories, filed by the applicant, and cross-interrogatories
filed by any party adversely interested, if he sees fit ; and it shall be taken
and returned substantially in the same manner as if taken to be used in any
cause pending in said court.
Sec. 5192. How used, filed and recorded— All depositions to perpet
uate the testimony of witnesses taken at any place without this state, accordins
to the provisions of this chapter, may be used in like manner as if taken
within this state, and shall be filed and recorded within the same time, and in
the same manner.
Q. 8. ch. 73, § 47 (52).
TITLE 5.
PRESERVATION OF TESTIMONY.
Sec. 5193. Deposit of instruments — The register of deeds and the
clerk of any court of record in every county of this state, upon being paid
the fees allowed therefor by law, shall receive and deposit in their offices, re
spectively, any instruments or papers which any person shall offer them for
that purpose, and, if required, shall give such person a written receipt there
for.
Sec. 5194. Indorsed and filed — Such instruments or papers shall be
properly indorsed, so as to indicate their general nature and the names of the
parties thereto, shall be filed by the officer receiving the same, stating the time
when received, and shall be deposited and kept by him and his successors in
office in the same manner as his official papers, in some place separate and dis
tinct from such papers.
Sec 5195. How withdrawn.— The instruments and papers so received
and deposited shall not be withdrawn from such office, except on the order of
some court, for the purpose of being read in evidence in such court, and then
to be returned to such office; nor shall they be delivered, without such order,
to any person, unless upon the written order of the person who deposited the
same, or his executors or administrators.
Sec 5196. Open to examination. — Such instruments or papers so de
posited shall be open to the examination of any person desiring the same, upon
the payment of the fees allowed by law.
Sec. 5197. Affidavit of publication of notice When notice of any
application to any court or judicial officer, for any proceeding authorized by
law, is required to be published in one or more newspapers, an affidavit of the
printer of such newspaper, or of his foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a
printed copy of such notice, taken from the paper in which it was published,
and specifying the time when and the paper in which such notice was pub
lished, may be filed with the proper officer of the court, or with the judicial
officer before whom such proceeding is pending, at any time within six months
after the last day of the publication of such notice, unless sooner specially
required.
Sec 519S. Affidavit of publication of notice of sale of real estate.
"When any notice of a sale of real property is required by law to be published
in any newspaper, an affidavit of the printer of such newspaper, or of his fore
man or principal clerk, annexed to a printed copy of such notice, taken from
the paper in which it was published, and specifying the times when and the
paper in which such notice was published, may be filed, at any time within
six months after the last day of such publication, with the register of deeds in
the county in which the premises sola are situated.
Sec. 5200. Same — Prior affidavits — That in all cases where affidavits
and proof of service authorized by sections sixty-one and sixty-two of chapter
seventy-three, and sections five, nineteen, twenty and twenty-three of chapter
eighty-one of the general statutes of one thousand eight hundred and seventyeight,
have been heretofore filed and recorded or which shall be hereafter filed
and recorded within one year after the passage of this act, such affidavits and
proofs or duly certified copies thereof shall be received in evidence in the
same manner and with same effect as if the same had been filed and recorded
within the time in said sections limited.
No proceedings in which such affidavits might have been heretofore filed
and recorded shall be deemed invalid in consequence of the failure to file and
record the same within the time specified by said sections ; provided, that
nothing herein contained shall be held to affect any vested right of any person
or persons not parties to such proceedings.
Sec. 5201. Defined — Compensation of attorneys The right of a
party to agree with an attorney or counsel for his compensation, is unre
stricted, and the measure and mode of such compensation is left to the agree
ment, express or implied, of the parties; but there may be allowed, to the
prevailing party, certain sums by way of indemnity for his expenses in the
action, Avhich allowances are termed costs.
Sec. 5202. Amount.— Costs are allowed to the prevailing party, in ac
tions commenced in the district court, as follows :
First. To the plaintiff, upon a judgment in his favor of one hundred dollars
or more, in an action for the recovery of money only, when no issue of fact or
law is joined, hve dollars. When an issue is joined, ten dollars;
Second. In all other actions, except as hereinafter otherwise provided, ten
dollars;
Third. To the defendant, upon discontinuance or dismissal, five dollars;
Fourth. When judgment is rendered in his favor on the merits, ten dollars.
Sec 5203. In several actions.— When several actions are brought on
any instrument in writing, or in any other case, for the same cause of action,
against several parties who might have been joined as defendants in the same
action, no costs can be allowed to the plaintiff in more than one of such ac
tions, which may be at his election, if the parties proceeded against in the
other actions were, at the commencement of the previous action, openly within
this state; but the disbursements of the plaintiff may be allowed to him as
provided in the preceding section.
Sec 5204. In equitable actions. — In equitable actions, costs may be
allowed, or not; and, if allowed, may be apportioned between the parties on
the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the court. When there are sev
eral defendants, not united in interest, and making separate defences by sep
arate answers, and the plaintiff fails to recover judgment against all, the court
may award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor,
or any of them.
Sec 5205. When chargeable on estate or fund— In an action prose
cuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust,
or a person expressly authorized by statute, costs and disbursements may be
recovered, as in an action by and against a person prosecuting or defending
in his own right ; but the same shall, by the judgment, be made chargeable
only upon the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the court directs the
same to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant personally, for mismanagement
or bad faith in the action; but no costs or disbursements are recoverable in
such action, unless it appears that the demand was first presented to the exec
utor or administrator, verified by oath, and payment demanded.
Sec 5206. Inaction on judgment.— Costs cannot be allowed to the
plaintiff in an action upon a judgment of a court of this state, between the
same parties, unless such action was brought with previous leave of the court,
for cause shown ; but this prohibition does not apply to an action upon the
judgment of a justice, brought in another 'county, or brought in the same
county, in case of the summons not having been served on all the defendants,
or the death of a party, or the death, resignation, incapacity to act, or removal
from the county, of the justice, or the loss of his docket.
Sec. 5207. Against guardian of infant — When costs are adjudged
against an infant plaintiff, the guardian by whom he appears in the action is
responsible for them, and judgment therefor may be entered against both the
guardian and the infant.
Sec. 5208. Relator in name of state. — When an action or proceeding
is instituted in the name of the state, on the relation of any citizen, such re
lator is entitled to and liable for costs and disbursements, in the same cases,
and to the same extent, as if such action or proceeding had been instituted in
his own name.
Sec 5209. On motions and demurrers — Costs mav be allowed on a
motion or demurrer, in the discretion of the court or judge, not exceeding
ten dollars, and may be absolute, or directed to abide the event of the action.
Sec 5-210. On appeal from justice. — In civil actions tried before a jus
tice of the peace, if the plaintiff appeals from a judgment in his favor, and
does not recover, in the district court, a greater sum as damages than he re
covered by the first judgment, the defendant is entitled to costs and disburse
ments; if the defendant appeals, and the amount of the plaintiff's recovery
before the justice is reduced one-half or more in the district court, the defend
ant is entitled to costs and disbursements; in all other cases of appeal from
the judgment of a justice of the peace in such actions, the successful party is
entitled to costs and disbursements.
Sec 5211. Same — Interest not considered.— In comparing the sums
recovered by the two judgments, for the purposes specified in the preceding Section, the interest accrued on the plaintiff's demand, after the first judg
ment, shall not be considered.
Sec 5212. Disbursements.— In every action commenced in the district
courts of this state, the prevailing party shall be allowed his disbursements
necessarily paid or incurred: ^provided, that in all actions for the recover\r of
money only, of which a justice of the peace has jurisdiction, the plaintiff, if
he recover no more than lift}' dollars, shall recover no disbursements; and if
he recover less than fifty dollars, he shall pay the defendant's costs and dis
bursements, as allowed by law when judgment is rendered in favor of the de
fendant on the merits; which said costs and disbursements shall be taxed and
allowed by the clerk, upon notice, the same as in other cases, and shall be
deducted by the clerk from the amount recovered by the plaintiff; and in case
the amount of such costs and disbursements exceed the amount recovered by
the plaintiff, the clerk shall enter judgment against the plaintiff, and in favor
of the defendant, for the amount of such excess, and the defendant may have
execution thereon.
Sec. 5214. Entitled to costs after tender— When, in an action on con
tract, express or implied, the defendant alleges in his answer, that, before the
commencement of the action, he tendered to the plaintiff the full amount to
which he was entitled, and thereupon deposits in court, for the plaintiff, the
amount so tendered, and the allegation is found true, the defendant is entitled
to costs and disbursements.
Sec. 5215. In actions for tort. — When in an action to recover damages
for the commission of a tort, the defendant shall at any time before the trial
of such action, tender to the plaintiff a sum of money as damages or compen
sation for such tort, and if such tender be made after the commencement of
the action, in addition to such tender for damages or compensation, he shall
also tender the costs and disbursements of the plaintiff then accrued, and the
plaintiff in such action shall not recover a greater sum than the amount so
tendered ; the plaintiff shall recover no costs or disbursements, but shall pay
the defendant's costs and disbursements. The fact of such tender having been
made shall not be pleaded nor given in evidence to the court or jury.
1877, ch. 119, § 1: "An act regulating costs and disbursements in certain civil actions."
Approved March 6, 1877.
Sec 5216. Same — Judgment for excess.— In all such actions, when
such tender shall be made and the plaintiff fails to recover a greater sum than
the amount of such tender, if the amount of such recovery and the costs and
disbursements accrued and tendered exceed the amount of the defendant's
costs and disbursements, the court shall enter judgment against the defendant
for such excess. If the amount of the defendant's costs and disbursements
exceed the amount recovered by the plaintiff, and his costs and disbursements
accrued and tendered, the court shall enter judgment against the plaintiff for
such excess.
1877, ch. 119, § 2.
Interest on Verdict.
Sec 5217. Prom time verdict rendered.— When the judgment is for
the recovery of money, interest, from the time of the verdict or report, until
the judgment is finally entered, shall be computed by the clerk, and added
thereto.
Sec. 5218. When. — In all criminal actions, upon the conviction of the
defendant, the court may, in its discretion, in addition to the punishment now
or hereafter provided by law for such offense, and as a part of the sentence
to be pronounced, adjudge that the defendant shall pay the whole or any
part of the costs and disbursements of the prosecution, and payment thereof
may be enforced in the same manner as is or may be provided for enforcing
such sentence, or by execution against his property.
1681, ch. 122, § 1 : "An act relating to costs and disbursements in criminal actions." Ap
proved February 18, 1881.
Sec 5219. Paid into county treasury.— The costs and disbursements
wheri collected shall be paid into the treasury of the county where the con
viction is had, for the use and benefit of such county; provided, the provis
ions of this act shall in no manner interfere with or change the payment of
officers', witnesses' or jurors' fees, as now provided by law.
1881, ch. 122, § 2.
Sec. 5220. Not retroactive. — The provisions of this act shall not apply
nor extend to any act done nor offense committed prior to the passage hereof.
1881, ch. 122, § 8.
Costs in Supreme Court.
Sec. 5221. When.— Costs in the supreme court may be allowed, in the
discretion of said court, as follows:
First. To the prevailing party, upon a judgment in his favor on the merits,
not exceeding twenty-five dollars;
Second. Upon dismissal, not exceeding ten dollars.
Sec 5222. Disbursements. — In all cases the prevailing party shall be
allowed his disbursements necessarily paid or incurred.
Sec. 5223. When appeal taken for delay. — In an action for the recov
ery of money only said court may, if of opinion that the appeal was taken for
delay merely, allow the plaintiff, in addition to costs and disbursements, a
sum not exceeding three per cent, on the judgment in the district court, *and
in all cases except where it is otherwise ordered by the court, the costs and
disbursements provided for in this and the two preceding sections, together
with the fees and charges of the clerk of said court, shall be paid before any
remittitur of the case shall be made or had, and as a condition precedent to any
further proceedings in the cause, by the adverse or losing party in the district
court or court below;* provided, that whenever it appears to the satisfaction
of said court that such party is unable to pay such costs in full, it shall be the
duty of said court to remit the case to the court below upon payment of the
clerk's fees only.
Security for Costs.
Sec 5224. When. — When an action is commenced in the district court
in the name of any plaintiff who is committed and in execution for a crime,
or wherein the plaintiff is a non-resident of this state, or wherein all of several
plaintiffs are non-residents of this state, or in the name and behalf of any for
eign corporation, such plaintiff shall file with the clerk of the court wherein
such action is brought, before the service of the summons therein, a bond in
the penal sum of seventy-five dollars, executed by one or more sureties, pay
able to the clerk of such court, for the benefit of parties who may become
310
entitled to disbursements or costs in such action, and conditioned for the pay
ment of all disbursements and costs that may be adjudged against the plaintiff
in the action. If, after the commencement of the action, all the parties plaint
iff therein become non-residents of this state, or the sureties in the bond above
provided for remove from this state, or become insolvent, the defendant may,
on motion, by order of the court, require an additional bond to be filed, pay
able and conditioned as herein provided.
Sec. 5225. Same — Failure to give — Result. — If any party commences
an action without filing a bond, or fails to provide an additional one, as above
required, the court, on motion of the defendant, may order a stay of all pro
ceedings in such action, or a dismissal of such action at the cost of the attorney
commencing the same.
Sec 5226. Suit on bond.— "When judgment is entered against any party
■who has given security as above provided, and the disbursements and costs so
adjudged against such party remain in whole or in part unpaid, for ten days
after the entry of judgment, such bond may be put in suit, and proseouted tc
final judgment and execution.
Sec. 5227. Pees For the services mentioned in this chapter, the
hereinafter described are allowed :
Sec. 5228. Schedule. — For issuing and sealing every writ, summons, sub
poena or process, fifty cents.
Certified copy of such writ, when required, ten cents per folio, and twentyfive
cents for certificate.
Entering the return of every writ and filing such writ, ten cents per folio.
Entering an appearance, retraxit, discontinuance, non-suit, or default, twenty
cents.
Entering every rule, order or motion, in term, ten cents for each folio.
Certified copies of rules or orders, ten cents for each folio and twenty-five
cents for the certificate.
Every report upon an assessment of damages or other matter referred to
him, seventy-five cents, and ten cents per folio for such report when it exceeds
five folios.
Every certificate, twenty-five cents.
Calling and swearing grand jury, fifty cents.
Calling and swearing petit jury in civil causes, fifty cents.
Swearing jurors in criminal causes, ten cents for each oath administered.
Swearing each witness on trial, ten cents.
Swearing officers to take charge of jury, ten cents.
Entering or taking a recognizance, fifty cents.
Entering a cause in a calendar for the court, and making a copy thereof for
the bar, twenty cents.
Keceiving and entering a verdict, twenty-five cents.
Entering an action without process, fifty cents.
Certified copy of the minutes of a trial, when required, ten cents per folia
Entering a final judgment, when the same does not exceed three folios, fifty
cents, and ten cents for each additional folio.
Copy of judgment to be attached to judgment-roll, ten cents for each folio.
Entering satisfaction of judgment, twenty cents for each judgment debtor.
Drawing a special jury, seventy-five cents.
Filing every paper, five cents.
Copies and exemplifications of records and pleadings, ten cents for each
folio.
Searching the records or files in his office, if a copy is not required, twenty
cents for the records or files of each year.
Administering oaths not otherwise provided for herein, twenty-five cents.
Recording credentials of ordination of ministers, and giving- a certificate,
seventy-five cents.
Recording certificate of solemnization of marriage, fifty cents.
Filing and docketing transcripts of judgment from another count}', or from
justice court, when but one judgment debtor, tweuty-tive cents, and ten cents
for each additional judgment debtor.
Entering an appeal or transcript from justice court, fifty cents.
Entering a surrender of bail, twenty-five cents.
Issuing commission to take deposition, one dollar.
Issuing venire facias, one dollar.
Certificate of juror's and witness' attendance at court, fifteen cents.
Entering forfeiture of recognizance, twcnt3r-five cents.
Entering discharge of bail, twenty-five cents.
Entering a declaration to become a citizen of the United States, fifty cents.
A certified copy of such declaration under the seal of the court, fifty cents.
Entering the final admission of an alien to the rights of citizenship, fifty
cents.
A certified copy thereof, under the seal of the court, fifty cents.
Making docket entries of judgments, twenty cents for each judgment debtor.
Admission of attorneys, one dollar.
Taxing costs, fifty cents.
Certified copy of marriage record, fifty cents.
Certified transcript of docket entry, fifty cents.
Attendance on court, for each day of actual session, three dollars.
Judgments.— For searching the judgment docket books of his office and
certifying to the existence or non-existence of judgments docketed therein he
shall receive as fees the sum of fifty cents. This act shall not apply to the
county of Rice.
1889, ch. 160.
Other services. — For all other services required by law to be performed
by such clerk, respectively, such fees as compare favorably with the rates
herein prescribed, and as may be established by general rule or order of the
court: provided, that the fees of clerks of the district court, in actions for the
foreclosure of mortgages on real estate, where no trial is had, shall not exceed
the sum of four dollars for all services required to be performed by said clerks
in such actions.
Salary The provisions of this act shall not affect the salary of any county
officer whose salary is now provided for by a special law for such county, fix
ing his salary,, nor to the salary, fees or clerk hire of the county auditor or
county treasurer of the county of Dodge, but such officers shall be entitled to
receive only such salary, fees and clerk hire as is now by law provided, nor
to the counties of Ramsey and Hennepin, nor Kandiyohi.
Deposit.— Provided further, that no civil action, appeal or proceeding
shall be entered in the clerk's office of said district court until the person de
siring such entry shall deposit with said clerk the sum of three dollars on ac
count of fees in the case, and out of which the clerk shall satisfy the fees due
in such case as they accrue, and whenever said sum or any further deposit is
exhausted, said clerk may require as a condition for further entries or clerks'
fees, an additional deposit of one dollar for the purposes and application
aforesaid. Any balance remaining with the said clerk after such application,
and the determinaiion of the case shall be returned to the party depositing the
same, his agent or attorney. This act shall not apply to the counties of Hen
nepin or Ramsey or Dakota.
Deputies and fees.— Provided further, that on the holding of any terms
of the district court in and for any county in this state, the presiding judge
thereof shall, in his discretion, determine and fix by his order the number of
deputies which shall in his judgment be necessary for the clerk of said court
to have in attendance during said term of said court, and may revoke, modify
or revise said order at pleasure during said term, and thereupon said clerk
shall appoint or discharge said deputies in pursuance of such order or its
modifications. Such deputy or deputies so appointed shall receive the same
fees per diem as said clerk.
Sec. 5229. In certain counties.— That in counties where the clerks of
district courts do not receive compensation for their services to exceed the
amount of eight hundred dollars per annum they shall be entitled to charge
and receive fees as follows:
For issuing and sealing every writ, summons, subpoena or process, sevent}'five
cents.
Certified copy of such writ when required, ten cents per folio and twentyfive
cents for certificate.
Entering the return of every writ and filing such writ, fifteen cents per folio.
Entering an appearance, retraxit, discontinuance, nonsuit or default, twenty
cents.
Entering every rule, order or motion in term, fifteen cents per folio.
Certified copies of rules or orders, ten cents for each folio and twenty-five
cents for certificate.
Every report on assessment of damages or other matter referred to him,
seventy-five cents and fifteen cents per folio for such report when it exceeds
five folios.
Every certificate, twenty-five cents.
Calling and swearing grand jury, one dollar.
Calling and swearing petit jury in civil cases, seventy-five cents.
Swearing jurors in criminal causes, ten cents for each oath administered.
Swearing triers, ten cents for each oath administered.
Swearing each witness on trial, fifteen cents.
Swearing officer to take charge of jury, twenty cents.
Entering or taking recognizance, seventy-five cents.
Entering cause on a calendar for the court and making a copy thereof for
the bar, twenty cents.
Receiving and entering a verdict, thirty cents.
Entering an action without process, sixty-five cents.
Certified copy of minutes of trial, when required, seventy-five cents.
Entering final judgment when the same does not exceed three folios, fifty
cents, and fifteen cents for each additional folio.
Copy of judgment to be attached to judgment roll, fifteen cents for each
folio.
Entering satisfaction of judgment, twenty cents for each debtor.
Drawing special jury, seventy-five cents.
Filing every paper, ten cents.
Copies and exemplifications of records and pleadings, fifteen cents for each
folio.
Searching the records or files in his office, if a copy is not required, twenty
cents for the records or files of each year.
Administering oaths not otherwise provided herein, twenty-five cents.
Recording credentials of ordination and giving certificate, one dollar.
Recording certificate of solemnization of marriage, fifty cents.
Filing and docketing transcript of judgment from another county, or from
justice's court, when but one judgment debtor, thirty cents and twenty cents
for each additional judgment debtor.
Entering an appeal of transcript from justice's court, sixty-five cents.
Entering a surrender of bail, thirty cents.
Issuing commission to take deposition, one dollar.
Issuing venire facias, one dollar.
Certificate of jurors and witnesses in attendance at court, fifteen cents.
Entering forfeiture of recognizance, thirty cents.
Entering a declaration to become a citizen of the United States, fifty cents.
Certified copy of such declaration under seal of the court, seventy-five cents.
Entering final admission of an alien to the rights of citizenship, fifty cents.
A certified copy thereof under the seal of the court, seventy-five cents.
Making docket entries of judgments, twenty cents for each judgment
debtor.
Admission of attorneys, two dollars.
Taxing costs, fifty cents.
Certified copy of marriage record, fifty cents.
Certified transcript of docket entry, fifty cents.
Attendance in court for each day of actual session, three dollars.
For other services required by law to be performed by such clerk respect
ively, such fees as compare favorably with the rates herein prescribed, and as
may be established by general rule or order of the court.
1881, ch. 120, § 1: "An act relating to the fee8 of clerks of district courts and registers of
deeds in certain counties." Approved March 7, 1881.
Sec 5230. In Hennepin and Ramsey counties.— The fees and com
pensation of the clerks of the district court and court of common pleas of said
counties, shall be as follows:
For entering a discontinuance, nonsuit or default, ten cents.
Entering every return on writ or order, ten cents for each folio.
For certified copies of orders, the same fees as for entering such orders.
Every report upon an assessment of damages or matter referred to him, ten
cents for each folio.
Every certificate, twenty-five cents, but not to be allowed for certifying any
paper to be a copy, for the copying of which he shall be paid.
Calling and swearing a jury, fifty cents.
Swearing each witness on trial, ten cents.
And swearing officer to take charge of jury, ten cents.
Entering every recognizance, fifty cents.
Entering every cause in calendar for court, and making a copy thereof for
the bar, ten cents.
Receiving and entering a verdict, twenty cents.
Entering every cause or suit in register, twenty-five cents.
Certified copy of the minutes of a trial, when requested, ten cents per folio.
Entering every final judgment, thirty cents, and ten cents for each folio ex
ceeding three.
For indexing case in register, ten cents.
For copy of judgment, to be attached to judgment-roll, ten cents for each
folio.
Entering satisfaction of a judgment, ten cents for each judgment-debtor.
Drawing a special jury in cause, fifty cents.
For a writ or subpoena, when issued by a clerk on request, and sealing the
same, twenty-five cents.
Copies and exemplifications of records and of pleadings, ten cents for each
folio.
Searching the records or files in his office, if a copy is not required, twenty-
five cents.
For administering oaths not otherwise provided for herein, twenty-five
cents.
Recording credentials of ordination of ministers, and giving certificate of
the same, one dollar.
Entering appeal from justice court, twenty five cents.
Entering a surrender of bail, fifteen cents.
Issuing a commission to take deposition, fifty cents.
Issuing a venire facias, fifty cents.
Certificate of jurors' or witnesses' attendance at court, to be paid from
county treasury, each five cents.
Entering forfeiture of recognizance, fifteen cents.
Entering discharge of bail, fifteen cents.
For entering a declaration to become a citizen of the United States, twenty-
five cents.
For a certified cop}7 of such declaration, under the seal of the court, twenty-
five cents.
For entering the final admission of an alien to the rights of citizenship,
twenty-five cents.
For a certified copy thereof, under the seal of the court, twenty-five cents.
For making docket entries of judgment, ten cents for each judgment debtor.
For filing and docketing transcript of judgment from another county, or
from justice court, when but one judgment debtor, thirty cents, and twenty
cents for each additional judgment debtor, in addition to the fees for entering
the case.
For docketing and entering the return of and filing execution, twenty-five
cents.
For certified copy or transcript of judgment, fifty cents.
For filing papers, five cents each.
For granting license of marriage, with the seal affixed thereto, administer
ing the oath to the applicant therefor, recording the certificate of marriage,
and filing the necessary papers, one dollar and fifty cents.
Taxing costs, twenty-five cents.
Attendance at court, three dollars per day ; when more than one session of
court shall be held at the same time, requiring the attendance of the clerk by
deput}' at one or more of such sessions, such per diem shall also be allowed
for such necessary deputy or deputies.
And no civil action, proceeding or appeal shall be entered in the clerk's
office of the said district or common pleas court, until the plaintiff, relator or
appellant, during such entry, shall deposit with the said clerk the sum of one
dollar as security for the clerk's fees in such action, proceeding or appeal, and
out of which the said clerk shall satisfy the fees due from such party as they
accrue; and whenever said sum is exhausted, but not before, the said clerk
shall require, as a condition of further entries for said party, an additional
deposit of one dollar for the purpose and application aforesaid, and the same
amount, in the same condition, for the same purpose and application, when
ever such exhaustion occurs; and any balance remaining after the termina
tion of the action, proceeding or appeal, shall be returned to the party de
positing the same, or to his attorney in the proceeding. This provision shall
not apply in cases where the cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul, or the counties
of Hennepin and Iiamsey are interested, or the state of Minnesota, or to
cases when applications are made for judgment for taxes or assessments.
And the per diem compensation mentioned herein shall be in full of all com
pensation, fees or allowances in suits or proceedings when either of said
counties, or any city or town thereof, or the state, is interested; but in all
such cases, and in cases of special assessments and tax judgments, the fees
shall be charged and taxed as now provided by law, and shall be collected
and paid into the treasury of the town, city or county entitled thereto.
1876, Spl. Laws, ch. 207, § 5.
Sec. 5231. In Hennepin county.— The compensation of the clerk of
the district court of said Hennepin county shall be as follows:
For each entry of a discontinuance, nonsuit, or default, five cents.
For each entry of every return on writ or order, five cents.
For certified copies or orders, seven and one-half cents for each folio.
For every report upon an assessment of damages, seven and one-half cents
for each folio.
316
For every certificate, ten cents.
For calling and swearing jury, twenty-five cents.
For administering oath and making entry thereof in minutes of court, ten
cents.
For making certificate thereof at request of part}', ten cents.
For entering every recognizance, twenty-five cents.
For entering every cause on calendar for court and making copy thereof for
the bar, ten cents.
For receiving and entering a verdict, fifteen cents.
For entering every cause or suit in register, fifteen cents.
For certified copies of the minutes of a trial, when requested, seven and
one-half cents per folio.
For entering every final judgment, twenty-five cents, and seven and one-
half cents for each folio exceeding three.
For indexing case in register, five cents.
For copy of judgment to be attached to judgment roll, seven and one-hall"
cents per folio.
For entering satisfaction of judgment, five cents for each debtor.
For drawing a special jur}7 in cause, fifty cents.
For writ or subpoena when issued on request, under seal, twenty cents.
For copies and exemplification of records and of pleadings, seven and one-
half cents per folio.
For searching the records or files in his office if a copy is not required, fif
teen cents.
For taking affidavits and acknowledgments, including certificate thereof,
not otherwise provided for herein, twenty cents.
For recording credentials of ordination of ministers and giving certificates
of the same, fifty cents.
For filing and recording copy of certificate of marriage when license was
issued from another county, twenty cents. #
For entering a surrender of bail, ten cents.
For issuing a commission to take deposition, twenty-five cents.
For issuing a venire facias, forty cents.
For issuing a certificate of jurors' or witnesses' attendance at court to be paid
from county treasury, five cents.
For entering forfeiture of recognizance, ten cents.
For entering a declaration to become a citizen of the United States, and for
making a copy thereof, twenty-five cents.
For entering the final admission of an alien to the rights of citizenship, and
for making copy thereof, twenty-five cents.
For making docket entries of judgment, five cents for each judgment debtor.
For filing and docketing transcript of judgment from another county or
from justice's court when but one judgment debtor, twenty cents, and five
cents for each additional judgment debtor in addition to the fees for entering
the cause.
For transcript of judgment, twenty-five cents.
For filing papers, five cents each.
For granting license of marriage with the seal affixed thereto, administer
ing the oath to the applicant therefor, recording the certificate of marriage,
and filing the necessary paper, one dollar.
For certified copy of such license and certificate when requested, twentyfive
cents.
For taxing costs, fifteen cents.
For attendance at court, or for the purpose of drawing juries, three dollars
per day.
When more than one session of the court shall be held at the same time,
requiring the attendance of the clerk by deputy at one or more of such ses
sions, such per diem shall also be allowed for such necessary deputy or deputies ;
and no civil action, proceeding, or appeal shall be entered in the clerk's office
of the said district court until the plaintiff, relator,- or appellant, desiring such
entry, shall deposit with said clerk the sum of one dollar as security for the
clerk's fees in such action, proceeding, or appeal, and out of which said clerk
shall satisfy the fees due from such party as they accrue; and whenever said
sum is exhausted, but not before, the said clerk shall require, as a condition of
further entries for said party, an additional deposit of one dollar for the pur
pose and application aforesaid, and the same amount in the same condition,
for the same purpose and application, whenever such exhaustion occurs; and
any balance remaining after the termination of the action, proceeding, or ap
peal shall be returned to the party depositing the same, or to his attorney in
the proceeding. This provision shall not apply in cases where the city of Min
neapolis or the county of Hennepin is interested, or the state of Minnesota, or
to cases when applications are made for judgment for taxes or assessments;
and the per diem compensation mentioned herein shall be in full of all com
pensation, fees, or allowances in suits or proceedings, when either said county,
or any city or town thereof, or the state, is interested; but in all such cases,
and in cases of special assessments and tax judgments, the fees shall be charged
and taxed as now provided by law, and shall be collected and paid into the
treasury of the town, city, or county entitled thereto.
1881, Spl. Laws, ch. 408, § 2 : " An act to fix the compensation and fees of certain officers in
Hennepin county." Approved February 16, 1881.
Fees of the Clerk of the Scpreme Court.
Sec. 5232. Schedule. — For drawing a writ of error, or other process issued
under the seal of the court, one dollar.
Affixing the seal to any process of the court, twenty-five cents.
Filing papers, ten cents for each paper.
Reading and tiling any petition relat ing to any proceedings in court, ten cents.
Entering the appearance or default of appellant or plaintiff or of defendant
or respondent, fifteen cents.
Entering every rule or order, fifteen cents for each folio.
A certified copy of every such rule or order, and of all papers, pleadings and
proceedings filed with him, ten cents for each folio.
Entering a decree or sentence, ten cents for each folio.
Entering a judgment or order, fifteen cents for every judgment debtor; ten
cents for each folio more than two.
Engrossing a remittitur to be sent to a district court, ten cents for each folio.
Every certificate, twenty-five cents.
Taxing costs, fifty cents.
Entering satisfaction of record, fifteen cents.
Taking security, fifty cents.
Entering each cause in the calendar, and making copy for the bar, ten cents.
Searching records and files in his office, twenty cents for the records or files
of each year.
For services required by law or the rules of the court, not herein provided
for, such fees as the court direct.
Admission of attorneys, two dollars.
Sec. 5233. Schedule. — For serving a summons, or any process issued by
a court of law, one dollar for each defendant served.
Traveling in making any service upon any writ or summons, ten cents per
mile for going and returning, to be computed from the place where the court
is usually held.
Taking and approving a bond, fifty cents.
A certified copy of such bond, when requested, ten cents per folio.
Copy of every summons or other paper served by the sheriff, when such copy
is made by him, ten cents per folio.
Collections on executions, when the same is collected or settled after levy at
the rate of four per centum upon the first two hundred and fifty dollars, and
two per centum upon the excess of said sum.
The fees herein allowed for the service of an execution, and for advertising
thereon, shall be collected by virtue of such execution, in the same manner as
the sum therein directed to be levied; but when there are several executions
against the defendant, at the time of advertising his property, in the hands of
the same sheriff, there shall be but one advertising fee charged on the whole,
and the sheriff shall elect on which execution he will receive the same.
Advertising sale, one dollar, and the reasonable fees paid to any printer by
such sheriff for publishing an advertisement of sale.
Posting three notices of such sale, one dollar and fifty cents.
Every certificate on the sale of real estate, two dollars, and one dollar for
each copy, which together with the register's fees for filing the same, shall be
collected as other fees on execution ; but no sheriff shall charge for more than
one certificate issued upon the same sale to the same purchaser, unless he re
quires it, in which case he shall pay to said sheriff one dollar for each addi
tional certificate.
Serving a writ of restitution or possession, and putting any person entitled
into the possession of premises, and removing the occupants, three dollars.
Summoning a jury upon a writ of inquiry, attending such jury, and making
and returning the inquisition, one dollar and fifty cents.
Summoning a special jury, struck pursuant to an order of the court, and re
turning the panel, fifty cents for each juror, and mileage.
Summoning a jury pursuant to any precept or summons of any officer in
special proceedings, two dollars; and attending such jury, when required, one
dollar.
Bringing up a person on a habeas corpus to testify or answer in any court,
or with the cause of his arrest and detention, or for the purpose of having him
surrendered in exoneration of his bail; or attempting to receive a prisoner so
surrendered who was not committed at the time, and receiving such prisoner
into his custody; or for committing a prisoner to jail ; or for bringing any
prisoner before any court for examination; in either case, one dollar; and for
travelling, the same mileage as upon service of writs; and for attending before
any officer or court in any such case, two dollars per day.
Attending court, three dollars per day.
Boarding prisoners, four dollars per week.
Serving attachment upon any ship, boat or vessel, in proceedings to enforce
any lien thereon created by law, three dollars, and such additional compensa
tion for his trouble and expense in taking possession of and preserving the
same as the officer issuing the warrant shall certify to be reasonable.
Selling any ship, boat, vessel, or the tackle, apparel and furniture thereof
so attached, and for advertising the same, the same fees as are allowed on ex
ecutions.
Making and returning an inventory and an appraisal of property attached
in any case, two dollars per day to each appraiser for each day actually em
ployed, and one dollar for each half-day.
Summoning grand or petit jurors, lift}' cents for each juror summoned, and
mileage at fifteen cents per mile for the number of miles necessarily travelled
in summoning the panel.
Serving subpoena, fifty cents for each witness summoned, and mileage as in
service of a summons; but when two or more witnesses live in the same direc
tion, mileage shall be charged only for the furthest.
Selling lands on foreclosure of mortgage by advertisement, and executing
certificate and deed to purchaser, and for all services required on such sale,
three dollars.
* Selling land on decree by foreclosure, and executing a deed, and for all
services required in making such sale, the sum of three dollars.*
Postponing a sale, one dollar, to be paid by the party requesting the
same.
Making and drafting an inventory of propertjr levied upon, replevied or at
tached, twenty-five cents for each folio; and^ for each copy of such inventory,
ten cents per folio.
For diligent search and inquiry, and returning summons, when parties can
not be found, one dollar; and returning execution when no property found,
one dollar.
Receiving and paying over the money paid on redemption of property, and
executing certificate therefor, one per cent, on the amount so received and
paid, to be collected from the person redeeming such property.
For the necessary expenses which may be incurred to secure and safely keep
all property taken by the sheriff by virtue of a warrant of attachment, execu
tion or writ of replevin, such sura as may be allowed by the court.
For all United States revenue stamps, now or hereafter required by law to
be used upon any certificate, deed, or other instrument, the cost of such
stamps so used, and also such sum as may be required to be paid to the United
States government as a tax on any sale made by him.
For any services not herein enumerated, which a sheriff may be required to
perform, he shall receive the fees herein allowed for similar services.
Sec. 5234. In Ramsey and Hennepin counties.— The fees and com
pensation of the sheriffs of said counties of Hennepin and Ramsey counties,
shall be as follows:
For serving a summons or any process issued by a court of law, one dollar
for first defendant served, and fifty cents for each additional.
Travelling in making any service upon any writ or summons, ten cents per
mile for going and returning, to be computed from the place where the court
is usually held.
Taking and approving a, bond, fifty cents.
A certified copy of such bond, when requested, ten cents per folio.
Copy of every summons or other paper served by the sheriff, when such copy
is made by him, ten cents per folio.
Collections on executions, when collected without levy, or, when levied upon
personal property, when the same is collected or settled after levy, at the rate
of tour per centum upon the first two hundred and fifty dollars, and two per
centum upon the excess of said sum.
Selling lands on execution or decree, and executing certificate or deed, and
for all services required in making such sale, the sum of ten dollars.
The fees herein allowed for the service of an execution, and for advertising
thereon, shall be collected by virtue of such execution in the same manner as
the sum therein directed to be levied; but when there are several executions
against the defendant, at the time of advertising his property, in the hands of
the same sheriff, there shall be but one advertisement fee charged on the whole,
and the sheriff shall elect on which execution he will receive the same.
Advertising sale, one dollar, and the reasonable fees paid to any printer by
such sheriff for publishing an advertisement of sale.
Posting three notices of such sale, one dollar and fifty cents.
Every certificate on the sale of real estate, two dollars, which, together with
the register's fees for recording the same, shall be collected as other fees on
execution; but no sheriff shall charge for more than one certificate issued upon
the same sale to the same purchaser, unless he requires it, in which case he
shall pay to said sheriff one dollar for each additional certificate.
Serving a writ of restitution or possession, and putting any person entitled
into the possession of premises, and removing the occupants, three dollars.
Summoning a jury upon a writ of inquiry, attending such jury, and making
and returning the inquisition, one dollar and fifty cents.
Summoning a special jury, struck pursuant to an order of the court, and
returning the panel, fifty cents for each juror, and mileage actually and neces
sarily traveled.
Bringing up a person on habeas corpus to testify or answer in any court, or
with the cause of his arrest or detention, or for the purpose of having him
surrendered in exoneration of his bail; or attempting to receive a prisoner so
surrendered who was not committed at the time, and receiving such prisoner
into his custody; or lor committing a prisoner to jail; or for bringing a pris
oner before any court for examination; in either case, one dollar; and for
travelling, the same mileage as upon service of writs; and two dollars per day
for attending court with such prisoner.
Summoning grand or petit 'jurors, twenty-five cents for each juror, and ten
cents mileage actually and necessarily travelled in summoning said jurors.
Attending court, three dollars per day, each, for himself and two deputies,
during jury trials only.
Boarding prisoners, three dollars per week.
Serving subpoena, fifty cents for each witness summoned, and mileage as in
service of a summons; but when two or more witnesses live in the same direction,
mileage shall be charged only for the furthest.
Selling lands on foreclosure of mortgage by advertisement, and executing
certificate and deed to purchaser, and for all services required on such sale,
three dollars.
Postponing a sale, one dollar, to be paid by party requesting the same.
Making and drafting an inventory of property levied upon, replevied or at
tached, twenty-five cents for each folio, and for each copy of such inventory,
ten cents per folio.
For diligent search and inquiry, and returning summons, when parties can
not be found, one dollar, without regard to number of defendants; and return
ing execution when no property can be found, one dollar.
.Receiving and paying over the money paid on redemption of property, and
executing certificate therefor, one per cent, of the amount so received and
paid, to be collected from the person redeeming such property, but not exceed
in any one case fifty dollars.
For all the necessary expense which may be incurred to secure and safely
keep all property taken by the sheriff, by virtue of a warrant of attachment,
execution, or writ of replevin, such sum as may be allowed by the court.
The county commissioners of each of said counties shall allow the sheriff of
their respective counties the sum of six hundred dollars per annum as compen
sation for a watchman or turnkey of the jail; but all bailiffs, deputy sheriff
attendant upon court, shall be furnished by such sheriff.
The food furnished persons shall be of good substantial quantity, and of the
variety needed for health, and as shall be regulated by the county commis
sioners.
1876, Spl. Laws, ch. 207, as amended 1878, Spl. Laws, ch. 79. 29 M. 198.
Fees of Registers of Deeds.
Sec. 5235. Schedule.— For entering or recording any deed or other in
strument, ten cents for each folio, to be paid when the same is left for record.
For every certificate, ten cents.
For copies of any records or papers, when required, ten cents for each folio.
For translations for record and recording any deed or other paper coming
from a foreign country, in any other than the English language, twenty-five
cents per folio.
Every entry of a discharge of mortgage, ten cents.
Filing every other paper, and making an entry thereof when necessary, ten
cents.
Searching for every such paper, on request, five cents for every paper ex
amined.
Searching the record, ten cents.
For an abstract of title, twenty-five cents for every transfer, and twenty-
five cents for his certificate.
Sec. 5236. In certain counties. — That in counties where registers of
deeds do not receive compensation for their services to exceed the amount of
eight hundred dollars per annum, they shall be entitled to charge and receive
fees as follows :
For entering or recording any deed or other instrument, twelve and one-half
cents per folio, to be paid when the same is left for record.
Every certificate, twenty-five cents.
For copies of any record, or papers when required, ten cents per folio.
For recording any deed in any other than English language, twenty cents
per folio.
Every entry of discharge of mortgage in margin of record, ten cents.
Filing every other paper and making due entry thereof when necessary, ten
cents.
Searching for every such paper on request, five cents for every paper exam
ined.
Searching record, ten cents.
For an abstract of title, twenty-five cents for every transfer, and fifty cents
for his certificate.
1881, ch. 120, § 2: " An act relating to the fees of clerks of district courts and registers of
deeds in certain counties." Approved March 7, 1381.
Sec. 5237. In Ramsey and Hennepin counties — The fees and com
pensation of the register of deeds of said counties shall be as follows:
For entering, indexing and recording any deed or other instrument, ten
cents for each fq&&; to be paid when the same is left for record.
For every certificate, fifteen cents.
For copws of any records or papers, when required, ten cents for each
folio.
For recording an}' deed or other paper in any other than the English lan
guage, twenty cents for each folio.
Every entry of a discharge of mortgage in the margin of the record, ten
cents.
Filing every instrument, and making an entry thereof when necessary, ten
cents.
Searching for every such paper on request, five cents for every paper exam
ined.
Searching the records, ten cents.
Provided, the compensation to the register of deeds of Ramsey county until
and including December thirty-first, eighteen hundred and seventy-nine, for
recording instruments or making copies of papers or records, shall be twelve
and one-half cents per folio.
1876, Spl. Laws, ch. 207, § 4, as amended 1878, Spl. Laws, ch. 82, § 1.
Sec. 5238. In Hennepin county.— The compensation of the register of
deeds for the county of Hennepin, in this state, shall be as follows:
For entering, indexing, and recording any deed or other instrument, seven
and one-half cents for each folio, to be paid when the same is left for record.
For every certificate, ten cents.
For copies of any records or paper, when required, seven and one-half cents
for each folio.
For recording any deed or any other paper in'any other than the English
language, fifteen cents per folio.
For entering the discharge of mortgage in the margin of the record, ten
cents.
For filing every instrument and making an entry thereof, when necessary,
five cents.
1881, Spl. Laws, ch. 408, §1.
Fees of Coroners.
Sec. 5239. In general — Inquests.— For all services rendered by cor
oners, they shall receive the same fees allowed to sheriffs for like services;
and for an inquest or examination of a dead body, they shall receive five dol
lars per day for the time actually spent, and ten cents per mile to and from
the place where such inquest or examination shall take place. There shall be
allowed to physicians called by the coroner to make any professional post
mortem examination, six dollars per day, and ten cents per mile for actual
distance travelled in going to and from the place of holding such inquest or
examination.
Additional. — Provided, that whenever it shall be made to appear satis
factorily to the board of county commissioners that such post mortem exam
ination was attended by great and unusual difficulty the said board of county
commissioners may allow such further sum to the physicians who made such
post mortem examination, as in the opinion of the board may be a just and
fair compensation for the service rendered.
Sec. 5240. Schedule.— Court commissioners, for services mentioned in
this act, shall be allowed the following fees:
For examining any petition, complaint, affidavit, or other paper wherein an
order is required, one dollar.
For making and entering an order on the same, fifty cents.
For taking bail, or approving sureties on any bond or recognizance, fifty
cents.
For hearing and deciding on the return of a writ of habeas corpus, three
dollars for each day necessarily occupied in the hearing of the same.
For all other services rendered by them, the same fees as allowed by law to
other officers for similar services.
1868, ch. 97.
Fees of Appraisers, Commissioners and Others.
Sec. 5241. Per diem and mileage.— All appraisers of estates of deceased
persons, appraisers of property taken on writ of attachment or replevin, per
sons appointed under a legal process or order for assigning dower, or making
a partition of real estate, sheriff's aids in criminal cases, and all other private
persons performing any other like service required by law, or in the execution
of legal process, where no express provision is made for compensation there
for, shall be entitled to one dollar for each day for their services, and five
cents a mile for travel in going and returning. *
Sec. 5242. Same fees as justices. — The person to whom any commission
issues to take testimony in any action shall receive the same fees as allowed to
justices of the peace for the same services.
Sec. 5243. Per diem — Agreement.— The fees of referees are five dol
lars to each, for every day spent in the business of the reference ; but the par
ties may agree, in writing, upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon
such rate shall be allowed.
Sec. 5244. Schedule. — For drawing and copy of protest of the non-pay
ment of a promissory note, or bill of exchange, or of the non-acceptance of
such bill, one dollar, in the cases where by law such protest is necessary.
For drawing and a copy of every other protest, fifty cents.
For drawing, cop3r and serving every notice of non-payment of note, or
non-acceptance of a bill, fifty cents.
Drawing any affidavit, or other paper or proceeding, for which provision is
not herein made, twenty cents for each folio; and copying the same, six cents
for each folio.
For each oath administered, twenty-five cents.
Taking the acknowledgment of deeds and for other services authorized by
law, the same fees as are allowed to other officers for similar services.
Eecording each instrument required bylaw to be recorded by him, ten cents
per folio.
Sec. 5245. Per diem — Disbursements — Additional.— For actual
service two dollars per day, and their actual and necessary disbursements for
the benefit of the same; but the probate court may allow executors and ad
ministrators, in cases of unusual difficulty or responsibility, such further sum
as the judge deems reasonable.
Sec. 5246. Per folio. — For publishing any notice, or any order, citation,
summons, or any other proceeding or advertisement, required by law to be
published in any newspaper, not more than seventy-live cents per folio for
the first insertion, and thirty-five cents per folio for each insertion after the
first; and for the purpose of computing the same, a folio is hereby declared to
be equal to the space occupied by two hundred and fifty ems of solid matter
of the kind of type used.
Sec 5247. Grand— Petit — Before coroners—Justices — Each grand
and petit juror shall be entitled to two dollars for each day's attendance upon
any district court, and ten cents for each mile traveled in going to and return
ing from the said court, the distance to be computed by the usual traveled
route, and paid out of the county treasury of the county in which the service
was rendered. The clerk of the district court shall deliver to each juror a cer
tificate for the number of days' attendance, and miles traveled, for which he
is entitled to receive compensation.
Each juror sworn before any coroner, on any inquest taken by him, is en titled to one dollar for each day's attendance on such inquest.
Each juror sworn in any action pending in a justice court, or before any
sheriff on a writ of inquiry, is entitled to fifty cents, to be paid in the first in
stance by the party requiring such juror.
Provided, that the certificate of the clerk for services rendered as such juror,
in the district court, or by the coroner, shall be filed with the county auditor,
who shall issue his warrant on the treasurer of his county for the amount due,
which certificate shall be a proper and sufficient voucher for the issuance of
said warrant: provided, further, that the provisions of this act in relation to
the amount allowed jurors in the district court shall not apply to the county
of Ramsey.
Sec 5248. In courts — Mileage — Experts For attending in any
action or proceeding pending in a court of record, one dollar for each da}r.
For attending in any justice's court, or before any officer, person or board
authorized to take the examination of witnesses, one dollar for each day.
For traveling, at the rate of six cents per mile, in going to and returning
from the place of attendance, to be estimated from the residence of such wit
ness, if within this state, or from the boundary line of this state which such
witness passed in coming, if his residence is out of the state: provided, that
the judge of an}7 court of record in this state, before whom any witness is
summoned, or sworn and examined, as an expert in any profession or calling,
may, in his discretion, allow such fees or compensation as, in his judgment,
may be just and reasonable.
Sec 5249. Same — To be paid in advance — No person is obliged to at
tend as a witness unless the fees are paid or tendered to him which are allowed
by law for one day's attendance as a witness, and for traveling to and return
ing from the place where he is required to attend.
Sec. 5250. Same — Attorney not entitled. — No attorney or counsel in
any cause shall be allowed any fee for attending as a witness in such cause.
Sec. 5251. In criminal cases. — Witnesses for the state in criminal cases
or proceedings before any court of record or justice's court, shall receive for
such attendance one dollar for each day and six cents per mile in going to
and returning from the place of attendance. The judges of the district court
may, in their discretion, allow like fees to witnesses attending in behalf of any
defendant in criminal cases or proceedings pending in the district court. In
courts of record said witness fees shall be certified and paid in the same man
ner as jurors in said court are paid, and in justice courts said fees shall be a
count}' charge, and be allowed and paid by the county in which such services
are rendered, in the same manner as other county charges.
Sec. 5252. Same — To attend without prepayment.— The attorney
general, or county attorney in each county, is authorized to issue subpoenas,
and compel the attendance of witnesses, on behalf of the state or county,
without paying or tendering fees in advance; and, in criminal cases, the wit
nesses for the defendant shall also be compelled to attend without payment
or tender of fees in advance; and any witness failing or neglecting to attend,
after being served with a subpoena, may be proceeded against, and shall be
liable, in the same manner as provided by law in other cases where fees have
been paid or tendered.
Sec. 5253. Same —Witness from another state or country. — When
any person shall attend a court of record as ai witness in behalf of the state
of Minnesota, upon request of the public prosecutor, or upon a subpoena, or
by virtue of a recognizance for that purpose, and it appears that such person
has come from any other state or territory of the United States, or from any
foreign country, or that such person is poor, the court may, by order on its
minutes, direct the county treasurer of the county in which the court shall be
sitting, to pay to such witness such sum of money as shall seem reasonable
for expenses.
Sec. 5254. Same — Payment— The clerk of any court at which any
witness has attended on behalf of the state, in a civil action, shall give to
such witness a certificate of travel and attendance, which shall entitle him to
receive the amount from the treasurer of the county where the action arises.
Sec. 5255. Same — Paid out of county treasury, when When any
prosecution, instituted in the name of this state, for breaking any law thereof,
fails, or when the defendant proves insolvent or escapes, or is unable to pay
the fees, when convicted, the fees shall be paid out of the county treasury,
unless otherwise ordered by the court.
Sec. 5256. Schedule. — Constables shall receive the following fees:
For serving a warrant or other writ, not herein provided for, on each person
named therein, twent3T-five cents.
For a copy of every summons delivered on request, or left at the place of
residence of defendant, fifteen cents.
Serving a subpoena or summons, on each party or name therein, fifteen
cents.
Serving an attachment, fifty cents.
Each copy of an attachment, fifteen cents.
Each copy of inventory of property seized on attachment, fifteen cents.
Serving summons on garnishee, fifty cents.
Copy of an affidavit or other paper not otherwise enumerated, per folio,
ten cents.
Posting each notice, fifteen cents.
Attending on justice's court, when required by the justice, one dollar per
day.
Serving any process or paper authorized to be served by them, for travel,
ten cents per mile, both going to and returning from the place of service.
Committing to prison, fifty cents.
Summoning a jury, one dollar.
Writing a list of jurors, fifteen cents.
Attending on a jury, fifty cents.
On all sums made on execution and paid over, charged upon the defendant,
five per cent.
Serving every writ of replevin, fifty cents.
Summoning and swearing appraisers, and taking appraisement, fifty cents.
Taking and approving security in any case, twenty-five cents.
Sec. 5257. Same. — When the services mentioned in the last section are
performed by the sheriff or any other person, the same fee shall be allowed
that constables are entitled to receive.
Sec. 5258. Schedule Of fees Justices of the peace shall receive the fol
lowing fees and may tax the same in all cases where applicable:
For a summons, warrant or subpoena, twenty-five cents.
For a venire for a jury, twenty-five cents.
For a warrant in a criminal case, twenty-five cents.
Taking a recognizance of bail, twenty-five cents.
Administering an oath, fifteen cents.
Certifying the same, when administered out of court, fifteen cents.
For a writ of attachment, twenty-five cents.
Entering a judgment, twenty-five cents.
Every adjournment, fifteen cents.
Every bond, recognizance or security, directed by law to be taken and ap
proved by the justice, twenty-five cents.
Swearing a jury, twenty-five cents.
Taking an examination, deposition or confession, per folio, fifteen cents.
For copy of proceedings, or of any paper or examination in any case, when
demanded, per folio, fifteen cents.
Entering a satisfaction of judgment, twenty-five cents.
Issuing commission to take testimony, fifty cents.
Entering any order, or exceptions thereto, fifteen cents.
Entering amicable suit without process, twenty-five cents.
For a transcript of judgment, twenty-five cents.
Opening a judgment for rehearing, twenty-five cents.
Filing every paper required to be filed, five cents.
Issuing notice to take deposition, twenty-five cents.
Taking recognizance, certifying oath or affidavit, and making return to an
appeal, including travel, two dollars.
For a search warrant, twenty-five cents.
For every affidavit or other paper drawn by the justice, for which no other
allowance is made by law, per folio, fifteen cents.
For a commitment to jail, twenty-five cents.
For an order to bring up prisoner, twenty-five cents.
For an order to discharge prisoner, issued to jailor, twenty-five cents.
Discharging a prisoner, after a hearing on motion to discharge, fifteen
cents.
For an execution, twenty-five cents.
For every other writ not herein enumerated, twenty-five cents.
Taxing costs, fifteen cents.
For marrying, and making return thereof, one dollar and fifty cents, and
such other sum as may be allowed by the part}' making the application.
Holding an inquisition, in cases of forcible entry and detainer, in addition
to other fees, one dollar.
Taking and certifying the acknowledgment of a deed, for each grantor
named therein, twenty-five cents.
For travelling to perform any duty, when not otherwise provided for, and
such travel is necessary, going and returning, per mile, ten cents.
Sec. 5259. Costs to prevailing party— In all civil actions, unless other
wise provided, the party in whose favor judgment is given shall recover costs.
Sec 5260. Pees for depositions, etc.— No fees for copies or exempli
fications of documents or papers, or for depositions, shall be allowed, unless
such copies of depositions were used upon the trial.
Sec. 5261. Only two witnesses to same fact.— The attendance of only
two witnesses to each particular fact before a justice of the peace shall be
taxed in the bill of costs.
Sec. 5262. Mileage. — The justice shall allow no fees for the travel of
witnesses, unless the same is proved by the oath of some person qualified to
testify in the action.
Sec. 5263. Same — In serving subpoena No fees shall be allowed for
travel in serving a subpoena, unless the same is charged by a constable or sheriff,
or is proved by the oath of the person who served the same.
Sec. 5264. Disbursements.— No allowance for disbursements, except to
officers, shall be allowed, unless the items are particularly specified, and
proved to the justice, and the same were, in the opinion of the justice, neces
sary, and reasonable in amount.
Sec. 5265. Tax costs without notice.-— At the time of entering a judg
ment for costs, in any case, the justice may proceed to tax the costs; and no
notice of such taxing need be given to the party against whom judgment is
rendered.
Sec. 5266. Unreasonable Charges. — The justice shall hear any evidence
which may be offered to him, to prove that any charge is unreasonable, or
that the service has not been rendered.
Sec. 5267. Post up table of fees. — Every officer whose fees are herein
fixed, shall publish and set up in his office, fair tables of his fees, according
to this chapter, in some conspicuous place, for the inspection of all persons
who have business in such office, upon pain of forfeiting, for each day the
same shall not be put up through such officer's neglect, a sum not exceeding
two dollars, which may be recovered by a civil action, in the name of any
person, before any justice of the peace of the same county.
Sec. 5268. No fees for services not rendered.— No fees shall be taxed
for services as having been rendered by any clerk, sheriff, or other officer, in
the progress of a cause, unless such service was actually rendered, except when
otherwise expressly provided.
Sec. 5269. No fees for services not actually performed.— No fee or
compensation allowed by law shall be demanded or received by any officer
or person, for any service, unless such service was actually rendered by him,
except in the case of prospective costs hereinafter specified.
Sec. 5270. Illegal fees forbidden. — No judge, justice, sheriff, or other
officer whatever, or other person to whom any fees or compensation is allowed
by law for any service, shall take or receive any other greater fee or reward
for such service than is allowed by the laws of this state.
Sec. 5271. Same — Penalty— A violation of either of the last two sec
tions is a misdemeanor; and the person guilty thereof shall be liable to the
party aggrieved for treble the damages sustained by him.
Sec. 5272. Prospective costs.— In entering any judgment or decree, no
prospective costs shall be taxed or included therein, except for docketing the
same, unless the party demanding such judgment or decree shall require the
costs of an execution or transcript of the judgment to be taxed and included
therein, in which case the same shall be so taxed and included.
Sec. 5273. Account for fees. — Every officer, upon receiving any fees for
any official duty or service, shall, if required by the person paying the same,
make out in writing, and deliver to sucli person, a particular account of such
fees, specifying for what they respectively accrued, and shall receipt the same;
and if he refuses or neglects to do so, he shall be liable to the party paying
the same for three times the amount so paid.
Sec. 5274. Same fees for same services "When a fee is allowed to one
officer, the same fees shall be allowed to other officers for the performance of
the same services, when such officers are by law authorized to perform such
services.
Sec. 5275. Fees for copies of papers.— The legal fees paid for certified
copies of the depositions of witnesses filed in any clerk's office, and of any
documents or papers recorded or filed in any public office, necessarily used on
the trial of a cause, or on the assessment of damages, shall be allowed in the
taxation of costs.
Sec. 5276. When paid from county treasury.— That in all cases where
the bonds, oaths of office, certificates of qualification or evidences of the elec
tion and qualification for office of any count\' or town office now required by
law to be filed or recorded with the register of deeds or clerk of the district
court, the fees for filing or recording the same shall be paid from the county
treasury in the same manner as other claims.
Sec. 5277. Regulated.— The writ of mandamus is regulated as in this chapter prescribed.
Sec. 5278. Office of writ— It may be issued to any inferior tribunal,
corporation, board or person, to compel the performance of an act which the
law specialty enjoins as a duty resulting from an office, trust or station; but
though it may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment, or pro
ceed to the discharge of any of its functions, it cannot control judicial dis
cretion.
Q. 8. ch. 80, § 2. 2 M. 346; 15 M. 177; 17 M. 429; 18 M. 40; 31 M. 445.
Sec. 5279. When writ shall not issue.— The writ shall not issue in any
case where there is a plain, speedy and adequate remedy, in the ordinarycourse
of law. It shall issue on the information of the party beneficially in
terested.
Sec. 5280. Alternative or peremptory— The writ of mandamus is
either alternative or peremptory. The alternative writ shall state concisely
the facts showing the obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his
omission to perform it, and command him that immediately after the receipt
of a copy of the writ, or at some other specified time, to do the act required
to be performed, or show cause before the court out of which the writ issued,
at a specified time and place, why he has not done so; and that he then and
there make his return to the writ, with his certificate on such return of
having done as he is commanded. The peremptory writ shall be in similar
form, except that the words requiring the defendant to show cause why he has
not done as commanded shall be omitted.
" a copy of " before writ, and " make his return to." 2 M. 180, 342, 344, 346 ; 12 M. 382.
Sec 5281. Jurisdiction to issue.— Tie district court has exclusive orig
inal jurisdiction in all cases of mandamus, except where such writ is to be
directed to a district court or a judge thereof in his official capacity, in which
case the supreme court has exclusive original jurisdiction ; and in such case
the supreme court, or a judge thereof, shall first make a rule, returnable in
term, that such district court, or judge thereof, show cause before the court
why a peremptory writ of mandamus should not issue; and upon the returnday
of such rule, such district court or judge may show cause against the rule,
by affidavit or record evidence; and upon the hearing thereof the supreme
court shall award a peremptory writ, or dismiss the rule. In case of emer
gency, a judge of the supreme court, at the time of making the rule to show
cause, may also appoint a special term of the court for hearing the motion,
and at which the rule shall be made returnable.
Sec. 5282. Allowance — Service The court or judge, by an endorse
ment on the writ, shall allow the same, and designate the return-day thereof,
and direct the manner of the service thereof : provided, that such service shall
be by copy of the writ, and of the allowance thereof, and of any order or di
rection of said court or judge endorsed upon said writ.
Sec. 5283. Peremptory writ in first instance — When the right to
require the performance of the act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid
excuse can be given for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may be
allowed in the first instance; in all other cases, the alternative writ shall be
first issued.
Sec. 5284. Answer. — On the return-day of the alternative writ, or such
further day as the court allows, the party on whom the writ is served may
show cause by answer, made in the same manner as an answer to a complaint
in a civil action.
Sec. 5285. Same — New matter — No answer. — If no answer is made,
a peremptory mandamus shall be allowed against the defendant; if an answer
is made containing new matter, the plaintiff may, on the trial or other pro
ceedings, avail himself of any valid objection to its sufficiency ; or may counter
vail it by evidence, either in direct denial, or by way of avoidance.
Sec 5286. Amendment — Issue — Trial — No other pleading or writ
ten allegation is allowed than the writ and answer. They shall be construed
and amended in the same manner as pleadings in a civil action, and the issues
thereby joined shall be tried, and further proceedings had, in the same manner
as in a civil action.
Sec. 5287. Trial of issues of fact.— Issues of fact in any such proceed
ing instituted in the supreme court or in any district court, [shall be tried in
the district court] of the county in which the defendant may reside, or in
which the material facts contained in the relation for the mandamus shall be
alleged to have taken place, and either party shall be entitled to have any
issue of fact in such proceeding tried by a jury as in an ordinary civil action.
The provisions of this act shall govern and be applicable in any such action or
proceeding heretofore commenced in the supreme court in which there has
not been a final hearing. Provided, always, that except as aforesaid nothing
in this act contained shall be construed so as to divest the supreme court of
jurisdiction to hear and finally determine any and all such suits or proceed
ings now pending in said court. And provided further, that any such suit or
proceeding now pending in the supreme court in which there is any issue of
fact, which has not been finally heard or determined, the said supreme court
shall, on the request of the attorney of either the plaintiff or defendant in
such suit or proceeding, transmit the record to the district court of the proper
county, which district court shall thereupon and thereafter have jurisdiction
of the case, and shall proceed to try any issue or issues therein, in the same
manner and with the same effect as if such suit or proceeding had been originally
commenced in such district court. And provided further, that the dis
trict court in which such suit or proceeding is pending may grant a change
of venue as in ordinary civil actions.
1869. ch. 79, as araeniied 1881. ch. 40. Approved March 7th. Before amendment this law
provided that supreme court shall have original concurrent jurisdiction with the district courts
in all cases of mandamus, allowed by court or by any judge in term or vacation, returnable
as may be designated, and in case of issue of fact, referee may be appointed to take and report
testimony. 15 M. 221; 28 M. 60, 41, 863 ; 88 M. 293.
Sec. 5288. Judgment for plaintiff.— If judgment is given for the
plaintiff, he shall recover the damages which he has sustained, together with
costs and disbursements, and a peremptory mandamus shall be awarded with
out delay.
Sec. 5289. Disobedience of writ — Penalty.— Whenever a peremptory
mandamus is directed to a public officer, body or board, commanding the per
formance of any public duty specially enjoined by law, if it appears to the
court that such officer, or any member of such body or board, without just
excuse, refuses or neglects to perform the duty so enjoined, the court may impose
a fine, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, upon every such officer or
member of such body or board ; such fine, when collected, shall be paid into
the state treasury, and the payment of such fine is a bar to an action for any
penalty incurred by such officer, or member of such body or board, by reason
of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.
Sec. 5290. Appeal— An appeal lies to the supreme court from the dis
trict court in mandamus as in civil actions.
Sec. 5291. Issuance and contents of writ— "Writs of prohibition shah
only be issued out of the supreme court, and shall be applied for upon affi
davit, by motion to the court, or a judge thereof in vacation; and if the cause
shown appears to the court or judge to be sufficient, a writ shall be thereupon
issued which shall command the court and party, or officer, to whom it is di
rected, to desist and refrain from any further proceedings in the action or
matter specified therein, until the next term of said supreme court, or the
further order of the court thereon; and to show cause at the next term of
said court, or some day to be named in the same term, at the option of the
court, if issued in term time, why they should not be absolutely restrained
from any further proceedings in .such action or matter.
Sec. 5292. Service and return.— Such writ shall be served upon the
court and party, or officer, to whom it is directed, in the same manner as a
writ of mandamus; and a return shall be made thereto by such court or offi
cer, which may be enforced by attachment.
Sec. 5293. Return — Issue.— If the party to whom such writ is directed
shall, by an instrument in writing, to be signed by him and annexed to such
return, adopt the same return, and rely upon the matters therein contained,
as sufficient cause why such court should not be restrained, as mentioned in
said writ, such party shall thenceforth be deemed the defendant in such pro
ceeding, and the person prosecuting such writ may take issue, or demur to the
matters so relied upon by such defendant.
Sec. 5294. Same — Trial. — If the party to whom such writ is directed
shall not adopt such return, the party prosecuting such writ, shall bring on
the argument of such return as upon a rule to show cause; and he may, by
his own affidavit and other proofs, controvert the matters set forth in such
return.
Sec. 5295. Judgment.— The court, after hearing the proofs and allega
tions of the parties, shall render judgment, either that a prohibition absolute,
restraining the said court and party, or officer, from proceeding in such action
or matter, do issue, or a writ of consultation authorizing the court and party,
or officer, to proceed in the action or matter in question ; and may make and
enforce such order in relation to costs and charges, and the amount thereof,
as may be deemed just.
Sec. 5296. Prohibition absolute.— If the party to whom such first writ
of prohibition is directed adopts the return of the court thereto, and judgment
is rendered for the party prosecuting such writ, a prohibition absolute shall
be issued; but if judgment is given against such party, a writ of consultation
shall be issued as above provi ded.
Sec. 5297. When to be granted. — Every person imprisoned or other
wise restrained of his liberty, except in the cases in the following section speci
fied, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus, according to the provisions of
this chapter, to obtain relief from such imprisonment or restraint, if it proves
to be unlawful.
Sec. 5298. When not. — The following persons are not entitled to pros
ecute such writ: persons committed or detained by virtue of the final judg
ment or decree of any competent tribunal of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or
by virtue of an execution issued upon such judgment or decree; but no order
of commitment for any alleged contempt, or upon proceedings as for contempt
to enforce the rights or remedies of any party, shall be deemed a judgment or
decree within the meaning of this section ; nor shall any attachment or other
process issued upon any such order be deemed an execution within the mean
ing of this section.
Sec. 5299. Not to restrain power of court, when.— Nothing contained
in this chapter shall be construed to restrain the power of any court to issue a
writ of habeas corpus, when necessary to bring before them any prisoner for
trial, in any criminal case lawfully pending in the same court, or to bring any
prisoner to be examined as a witness in any action or proceeding, civil or
criminal, pending in such court, when they think the personal attendance and
examination of the witness necessary for the attainment of justice.
"Wkit.
Sec. 5300. To whom, how and where made.— Application for such
writ shall be made by petition, signed and verified, either by the party for
whose relief it is intended, or by some person in his behalf, as follows: to tho
supreme or district court, or to any judge thereof being within the county
where the prisoner is detained; or if there is no such officer within such
county, or if he is absent, or from any cause is incapable of acting, or has re
fused to grant such writ, then to some officer having such authority residing
in any adjoining county.
Sec 5301. Same.— Whenever application for any such writ is made to
any officer not residing within the county where the prisoner is detained, he
shall require proof by the oath of the party applying, or by other sufficient
evidence, that there is no officer in such county authorized to grant the writ;
or if there is one, that he is absent, or has refused to grant such writ, or, for
some cause, to be specially set forth, is incapable of acting; and if such proof
is not produced, the application shall be denied.
O. S. ch. 80, § 23 (24). 10 M. 63.
Sec. 5302. Petition — Contents.— The petition shall state in substance :
First. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for is imprisoned
or restrained of his liberty, the officer or person by whom he is so confined or
restrained, and the place where, naming both parties, if their names are known,
or describing them if they are not;
Second. That such person is not committed or detained by virtue of any
process, judgment, decree or execution, specified in the twenty-first section of
this chapter;
Third. The cause or pretence of such confinement or restraint, according
to the knowledge or belief of the party verifying the petition;
Fourth. If the confinement or restraint is by virtue of any warrant, order
or process, a copy thereof shall be annexed, or it shall be averred that, by
reason of such prisoner being removed or concealed before application, a de
mand of such cony could not be made, or that such demand was made, and
the legal fees therefor tendered to the officer or person having such prisoner
in his custody, and that such copy was refused.
Fifth. If the imprisonment is alleged to be illegal, the petition shall state
in what the illeo-alitv consists.
Sec. 5303. Penalty for refusal of copy.— Any officer or other person
refusing to deliver a copy of any order, warrant, process, or other authority,
by which he detains any person, to any one who demands such cop}', and ten
ders the fees thereof, shall forfeit two hundred dollars to the person so de
tained.
Sec. 5304. Penalty for wilfully refusing.— If any officer herein au
thorized to grant writs of habeas corpus wilfully refuses to grant such writ
when legally applied for, he shall forfeit, for every such offence, to the party
aggrieved, one thousand dollars.
Sec. 5305. Form of writ. — Every writ of habeas corpus, issued under
the provisions of this chapter, shall be substantially in the following form:
"The State of Minnesota, to the sheriff of, etc. {or to A. B.):
" You are hereby commanded to have the body of C. D., by you imprisoned
and detained, as it is said, together with the time and cause of such imprison
ment and detention, by whatsoever name the said C. D. shall be called or
charged, before E. F., judge of the district court, as, etc. (or immediately after
the receipt of this writ), to do and receive what shall then and there be con
sidered concerning the said 0. D. And have you then and there this writ.
" Witness, etc."
Sec. 5306. Sufficiency of. — Such writ of habeas corpus shall not be dis
obeyed for any defect of form. It is sufficient:
First. If the person having the custody of the prisoner is designated, either
by his name of office, if he has any, or by his own name; or if both such
names are unknown or uncertain, he may be described by an assumed appel
lation ; and any one who may be served with the wrjt shall be deemed to be
the person to whom it is directed, although it is directed to him by a wrong
name or description, or to another person.
Second. If the person who is directed to be produced is designated by
name; or, if his name is uncertain or unknown, he may be described in any
other way, so as to designate the person intended.
"Writ.
Sec 5307. By whom — Security for costs.— It can only be served by
an elector of this state.* The officer granting the writ may, in his discretion,
require a bond in a penalty not exceeding one thousand dollars, with suffi
cient sureties, conditional that the obligators will pay all costs and expenses
of the proceeding, and the reasonable charges of restoring the prisoner to the
person from whose custod}' he was taken, if he is remanded. Such bond shall
run to the sheriff of the county, and be filed in the office of the clerk of the
court from which the writ issues.
"and ttae service thereof shall not be deemed complete unless the party serving tin)
snnie tenders to the person in whose custody the prisoner is, if such person is a sheriff, coroner,
constable or marshal, the fees allowed by law tor bringing up such prisoner." At common
law any person could make legal service by delivery. Hurd. Hab. Corp. 237.
Sec. 5308. How served. — Every writ of habeas corpus, issued pursuant
to this chapter, may be served by delivering the same to the person to whom
it is directed ; if he cannot be found, it may be served by being left at the jail,
or other place in which the prisoner is confined, with any under officer, or
other person of proper age, having charge, for the time, of such prisoner.
Sec 5309. Same. — If the person on whom the writ ought to be served
conceals himself, or refuses admittance to the party attempting to serve the
same, it may be served by affixing the same in some conspicuous place on
the outside, either of his dwelling-house, or of the place where the party is
confined.
Sec 5310. Concealment of prisoner — Penalty.— If any one who has
in his custody, or under his control, a person entitled to a writ of habeas cor
pus, whether a writ has been issued or not, transfers such prisoner to the cus
tody, or places him under the power or control, of another person, or conceals
him, or changes the place of his confinement, with intent to elude the service
of such writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, the person so offending shall for
feit, to the party aggrieved thereby, the sum of four hundred dollars, to be
recovered in a civil action.
Sec 5311. Attachment for. — If the person upon whom such writ is duly
served refuses or neglects to obey the same by producing the part)7 named in
such writ, and making a full and explicit return to every such writ, within the
time required by the provisions of this chapter, and no sufficient excuse is
shown for such refusal or neglect, the officer before whom such writ is return
able, upon due proof of the service thereof, shall forthwith issue an attach
ment against such person, directed to the sheriff of any county in this state,
and commanding him forthwith to apprehend such person, and to bring him
immediately before such officer; and on such person being so brought, he
shall be committed to close custody in the jail of the county in which such
officer is, until he makes return to such writ, and complies with any order
that may be made by such officer in relation to the person for whose relief
such writ was issued. «
Sec. 5312. Precept for prisoner.— The officer by -whom any such at
tachment is issued, may also, at the same time or afterward, issue a precept
to the sheriff or other person to whom such attachment was directed, com
manding him to bring forthwith before such officer the party for whose bene
fit such writ was allowed, who shall thereafter remain in the custody of such
sheriff or person, until he is discharged, bailed or remanded, as such officer
directs. •
Sec. 5313. Same — Disobedience ot sheriff.— If a sheriff neglects to
return such writ, the attachment may be directed to any coroner or other per
son designated therein, who shall have full power to execute the same; and
such sheriff, upon being brought up, may be committed to the jail of any
county other than his own.
Sec. 5311. When returnable. — Every writ of habeas corpus may be
made returnable at a day certain, or forthwith, as the case may require, and
shall be under the seal of the court.
Sec. 5315. When and how.— If the writ is returnable at a certain day,
such return shall be made, and such prisoner produced, at the time and place
specified therein; if it is returnable forthwith, and the place is within twenty
miles of the place of service, such return shall be made, and such prisoner
produced, within twenty-four hours; and the like time shall be allowed for
every additional twenty miles.
Sec. 5316. Form of return — The person upon whom any such writ is
duly served shall state in his return, plainly and unequivocally:
First. Whether he has or has not the party in his custody or control, or
under his restraint; and if he has not, whether he has had the party in his
custody, or under his control or restraint, at any and what time prior or sub
sequent to the date of the writ;
Second. If he has the party in his custody or control, or under his re
straint, the authority and true cause of such imprisonment or restraint, setting
forth the same at large;
Third. If the 'party is detained by virtue of any writ, warrant, or other
written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the return, and the orig
inal shall be produced and exhibited, on the return of the writ, to the officer
before whom the same is returnable;
Fourth. If the person upon whom such writ is served has had the party in
his control or custody, or under his restraint, at any time prior or subsequent
to the date of the writ, but has transferred such custody or restraint to an
other, the return shall state particularly to whom, at what time, for what
cause, and by what authority, such transfer took place.
The return shall be signed by the person making the same, and except
where such person is a sworn public officer, and makes his return in his offi
cial capacity, it shall be verified by oath.
Sec. 5317. Traverse of return.— The party brought before am- such
officer, on the return of any writ of habeas corpus, may deny any of the ma
terial facts set forth in the return, or allege an}' fact to show, either that his
imprisonment or detention is unlawful, or that he is entitled to his discharge,
which allegations or denials shall be on oath; and thereupon such officer shall
proceed, in a summary way, to hear such allegations and proofs as are legally
produced in support of such imprisonment or detention, or against the same,
and so dispose or such party as justice requires.
Sec. 5318. Body to be produced — Exception.— The person or officer
on whom the writ is served shall bring the body of the person in his custody,
according to the command of such writ, except in the case of the sickness of
such person, as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 5319. Same — When prisoner Sick.— Whenever, from the sick
ness or infirmity of the person directed to be produced by any writ of habeas
corpus, such person cannot, without danger, be brought before the officer before
whom the writ is made returnable, the party in whose custody he is may state
the fact in his return to the writ, verifying the same by his oath; and if such
officer is satisfied of the truth of such allegation, and the return is otherwise
sufficient, he shall proceed to decide upon such return, and to dispose of the
matter; and if it appears that the person detained is illegally imprisoned, con
fined or restrained of his liberty, the officer shall order those having such
person in their custody to discharge him forthwith; and if it appears that suchperson
is legally detained, imprisoned or confined, and is not entitled to be
oailed, such officer shall dismiss the proceedings.
Sec. 5320. Custody of prisoner until judgment on return — Until
judgment is given upon the return, the officer before whom such party is
brought may either commit such party to the custody of the sheriff of the
county in which such officer is, or place him in such care, under such custody
as his age and other circumstances require.
Sec 5321. Notice to county attorney and persons interested — In
criminal cases, notice of the time and place at which the writ is made return
able shall be given to the county attorney, if he is within the county; in other
cases, like notice shall be given to any person interested in continuing the
custody or restraint of the party seeking the aid of said writ.
Sec. 5322. Examine into facts.— The officer before whom the party is
brought on such writ, shall, immediately after the return thereof, proceed to
examine into the facts contained in such return, and into the cause of theconlineinent
or restraint of such party, whether the same was upon commitment
for any criminal charge, or not.
Sec 5323. When cannot question legality — But no officer, on the re
turn of any habeas corpus, can inquire into the legality or justice of any judg
ment, decree or execution, specified in the preceding twenty-first section.1
Sec. 5324. When prisoner to be remanded.— The officer shall forth
with remand such party, if it appears that he is detained in custody, either:
First. By virtue of process issued by any court or judge of the United
States, in a case where such court or judge has exclusive jurisdiction; or,
Second. By virtue of the final judgment or decree of any competent court
of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or of any execution issued upon such judg
ment or decree; or.
Third. For any contempt, specially and plainly charged in the commit
ment, by some court, officer or body, having authority to commit for the con
tempt so charged; and,
Fourth. That the time during which such party may be legally detained
has not expired.
Sec. 5325. When to be admitted to bail.— If it appeals that the party
has been legally committed for any criminal offence, or if he appears, by the
testimony ottered with the return, upon the hearing thereof, to be guilty of
such an offence, although the commitment is irregular, the officer before
whom such party is brought shall proceed to let such party to bail, if the
case is bailable, and good bail is offered, or if not, shall forthwith remand
such party.
Sec. 5326. Same. — In other cases the party shall be placed in custody of
the person legally entitled thereto, or, if no one is so entitled, he shall be dis
charged.
Sec. 5327. When to be discharged.— If no legal cause is shown for
such imprisonment or restraint, or for the continuation thereof, such officer
shall discharge such partv from the custody or restraint under which he is
held.
Second. Where, though the original imprisonment was lawful, yet, by some
act, omission or event which has taken place afterward, the party is entitled
to lie discharged ;
Third. Where the process is defective in some matter of substance required
by law, rendering such process void ;
Fourth. Where the process, though in proper form, has been issued in a
case not allowed by law;
Fifth. Where the person having the custody of the prisoner, under such
process, is not the person empowered by law to detain him; or.
Sixth. Where the process is not authorized by any judgment, order or de
cree of any court, nor by any provision of law.
Sec. 5330. Re-arrest. — No person who has been discharged upon a habeas
corpus shall be again imprisoned or restrained for the same cause, unless in
dicted therefor, convicted thereof, or committed for want of bail, by some
court of record having jurisdiction of the cause; or unless, after a discharge
for defect of proof, or for some material defect in the commitment in a crimi
nal case, he is again arrested on sufficient proof, and committed by legal
process. m
Sec. 5331. To annul incorporation obtained by fraud.— An action
may be brought by the attorney general, in the name of the state, whenever
the legislature so directs, against a corporation, for the purpose of vacating
or annulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its corporate exist
ence, on the ground that such act or renewal was procured upon some fraudu
lent suggestion, or concealment of a material fact, by the persons incorporated,
or some of them, or with their knowledge and consent.
Sec. 5332. To vacate charter. — An action may be brought by the attor
ney general, in the name of the state, for the purpose of vacating the charter,
or annulling the existence, of a corporation, other than municipal, whenever
such corporation:
First. Offends against any of the provisions of the act or acts creating,
altering or renewing such corporation; or,
Second. Violates the provisions of any law by which such corporation for
feits its charter by abuse of its powers; or,
Third. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges or franchises, by failure to
exercise its powers; or,
Fourth. Whenever it has done or omitted any act which amounts to a sur
render of its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises; or,
Fifth. Whenever it exercises a franchise or privilege not conferred upon it
by law.
And the attorney general shall bring the action in every case of public
interest, whenever he has reason to believe that any of these acts or omissions
can be proved; and also in every other case in which satisfactory security is
given to indemnify the state against the costs and expenses to be incurred
thereby.
Second. When any public officer has done or suffered an act which, by the
provisions of law, causes a forfeiture of his office; or,
Third. When any association or number of persons act within this state
as a corporation, without being duly incorporated. And the attorney general
shall bring the action whenever he lias reason to believe that any of these acts
can be proved.
Sec. 5334. To vacate letters patent. — An action may be brought by
the attorney general, in the name of the state, for the purpose of vacating or
annulling letters patent granted by the state, in the following cases:
First. When he has reason to believe that such letters patent were obtained
by means of some fraudulent suggestion, or concealment of a material fact,
made by the person to whom the same were issued, or made with his consent
or knowledge; or,
Second. When he has reason to believe that such letters patent were issued
through mistake, or in ignorance of a material fact;
Third. When he has reason to believe that the patentee, or those claiming
under him, have done or omitted any act in violation of the terms and condi
tions on which the letters patent were granted, or have by any other means
forfeited the interest acquired under the same.
Sec 5335. One action when several claim office.— When several
persons claim to be entitled to the same office or franchise, one action may be
brought against all such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such
office or franchise.
Sec 5336. Join complainant as party When an action is brought
by the attorney general, by virtue of this chapter, on the complaint or informa
tion of any person having an interest in the question, the name of such per
son shall be joined with the state as plaintiff.
Sec 5337. Upon right of complainant and defendant.— Whenever
such action is brought against a person for usurping an office, the attorney
general, in addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also set
forth in the complaint the name of the person rightfully entitled to the office,
with a statement of his right thereto; and, in every such case, judgment may
be rendered upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the
party so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as
justice requires.
Sec 5338. Possessionofoifi.ee. — If judgment is rendered in favor of
the person so alleged to be entftled, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath
of office, and executing such official bond as may be required by law, to take
upon himself the execution of the office, and may be put in possession thereof,
and of the books and papers belonging thereto, by order of the court; and
any party refusing to deliver the same, when ordered by the court, shall be
punished as for a contempt; and he may also recover, by action, the dam
ages which he sustains by reason of the usurpation of the office by the de
fendant.
Sec 5339. Of exclusion from office or franchise — When a person
or a corporation is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlaw
fully holding or exercising, any office, franchise or privilege, judgment shall
be rendered that such person or corporation be excluded from the office, fran
chise or privilege. The court may also, in its discretion, impose upon the de
fendant a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars.
Sec 5340. Dissolution Of corporation. — If it is adjudged that a cor
poration has, by neglect, abuse or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights,
privileges and franchises, judgment shall be rendered that the corporation be
343
excluded from such corporate rights, privileges and franchises, and that the
corporation be dissolved.
Sec. 5341. Injunction — Receiver.— When such judgment is rendered
against a corporation, the court has power to restrain the corporation, to
appoint a receiver of its property, and take an account, and make distribu
tion thereof among its creditors ; and the attorney general, immediately after
the rendition of such judgment, shall institute proceedings for that purpose.
Sec 5342. Costs. — If judgment is rendered in such action against a cor
poration, or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may cause
the costs therein to be collected by execution against the persons claiming to
be a corporation, or by process against the directors or other officers of such
corporation.
Sec. 5343. Judgment-roll. — Upon the rendition of such judgment against
a corporation, or for the vacating or annulling of letters patent, the attorney
general shall cause a cop}r of the judgment-roll to be forthwith filed in the
office of the secretary of state.
/ Sec. 5344. Within fifteen years. — Every mortgage of real estate here
tofore or hereafter executed containing therein a power of sale upon default
being made in any condition of such mortgage, may be foreclosed by ad
vertisement within fifteen years after the maturing of such mortgage or the
debt secured thereby, in the cases and in the manner hereinafter specified.
" An act providing for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate by
advertisement," approved March 7th; in force from April 1, 1878, re-enacted this section
with ten years' limitation but without the exemptions. Acts 1879 increased limitation from
ten to fifteen years. The above same as general btatutes except the limitation. 6 M. 108;
19 M. 85.
Sec. 5345. Requirements. — To entitle any party to give a notice, as
hereinafter prescribed, and to make such foreclosure, it is requisite:
First. That some default in a condition of such mortgage has occurred, by
which the power to sell has become operative.
Second. That no action or proceeding has [been] instituted at law to re
cover the debt tfien remaining secured by such mortgage, or any part thereof;
or if the .action or proceeding has been instituted, that the same lias been dis
continued, or that an execution upon the judgment rendered therein has been
returned unsatisfied in whole or in part.
Third. That the mortgage containing such power of sale has been duly re
corded, and if it has been assigned, that all the assignments thereof have been
recorded.
Sec. 5346. Publication and service. — Notice that such mortgage will
be foreclosed by sale of the mortgaged premises, or some part of them, shall
be given by publishing the same for six successive weeks, at least once in. each
week, in a newspaper printed and published in the county where the premises
intended to be sold, or some part thereof, are situated, if there is one, * if not,
then in a newspaper printed and published in an adjoining county, if there is
such a newspaper; if there is not, then in a newspaper printed and published
in the count}' to which the county in which, the premises are located is at
tached for judicial purposes, if there be such a newspaper; if there is not,*
then in a newspaper printed and published at the capital of the state. In all
cases, a copy of such notice shall be served in like manner as summons in
civd actions in the district court, at least four weeks before the time of sale,
on the person in possession of the mortgaged premises, if the same are actu-
iiliy occupied. Proof of such service may be made, certilied and recorded
in the same manner as proof of publication of a notice of sale under a mort
gage.
Sec 5347. Form of notiC6. — Every notice shall specify:
First. The names of the mortgagor and of the mortgagee, and the assignee,
if any ;
^..Second. The date of the mortgage, and when and where recorded;
'' Third. The amount claimed to be due thereon, and taxes, if an}', paid by
the mortgagee at the date of the notice ;
Fourth. A description of the mortgaged premises, conforming substantially
to that contained in the mortgage; and
Fifth. The time and place of sale.
" and where" in second subdivision. 4 M.542;6M. 108; 7 M. 159 ; 18 M. 366 ;
19 M. 85; 20 M. 448, 453, 464; 30 M. 539; 4 M. 25.
vi^Sec- 5348- When, Where, how — The sale shall be at public vendue,
tjie noul.s 0f njne o'clock in the forenoon and the setting of the sun,
in the county in which the premises [are] to be sold, or some part thereof, are
situated, and shall be made by the sheriff of the said county, or his deputy, to
the highest bidder.
Sec. 5349. Postponement of sale — Such sale may be postponed from
time to time, by inserting a notice of such postponement, as soon as practica
ble, in the newspaper in which the original advertisement was published, and
continuing such publication until the time to which the sale is postponed, at
the expense of the party requesting such postponement.
Sec. 5350. Distinct tracts sold separately If the mortgaged premises
consist of separate and distinct farms or tracts, they shall be sold separately!
and no more farms or tracts shall be sold than are necessary to satisfy the
amount due on such mortgage at the date of notice of such sale, with interest,
taxes paid, and costs of sale.
Sec. 5351. Mortgages, etc., may purchase The mortgagee, his as
signees, or his or their legal representatives, may fairly and in good faith pur
chase the premises so advertised, or any part thereof, at such sale.
Sec. 5352. Interest of purchaser.—The interest acquired upon any such
sale is subject to the lien of an3' attachment or judgment duly made or dock
eted against the person holding the same, as in case of real property, and
may be attached or sold on execution in the same manner.
Sec. 5353. Surplus purchase-money.— If, after sale of any real estate,
made [or] as herein prescribed, there remains in the hands of the officer mak
ing the sale any surplus money, after satisfying the mortgage on which such
real estate was sold, and payment of the tax and cost of sale, the surplus shall
be paid over by said officer, on demand, to the mortgagor, his legal represent
atives or assigns.
Sec. 5355. Foreclosure in firm name That all mortgages heretofore
made of any real property in this state or of any interest therein to any part
nership or firm, in their partnership or firm name and which said mortgages
have been foreclosed by advertisement pursuant to the statute relating to
foreclosure by advertisement, in the name of the said partnership or firm, be
and the same are together with all proceedings had in such foreclosure, are
hereby realized and confirmed so far as relates to any question of defect by
reason of the mortgagees' names being stated in the said mortgage by their
partnership or firm name instead of the individual names of the members of
said partnership or firm.
1887, ch. 154: " An act to legalize mortgages heretofore made to partnerships or firms in
the firm name, and foreclosure proceedings had thereunder." Approved March 7, 1887. Acts
1881, ch. 140. Approved February 21st. Same as above.
Sec. 5356. Certain sales legalized.— Every foreclosure sale heretofore
made under a power of sale in the usual form, contained in a mortgage, here
tofore made in good faith, of real property within the limits of this state, and
previously actually recorded in the office of the proper register of deeds, is,
together with such record thereof, hereby legalized and made valid and effect
ual to all intents and purposes, as against the following objections, namely:
First —-That the mortgage or any assignment thereof had but one witness.
Second — That the mortgage, or any assignment thereof, was duly witnessed,
but was recorded as if it had but one witness. Third — That the mortgage,
or any assignment thereof, was not duly sealed. Fourth — That the mort
gage, or any assignment thereof, was duly sealed, but was recorded as if not
duly sealed. Fifth — That the original certificate of the acknowledgment of
the mortgage was not sealed with the official seal of the officer taking such
acknowledgment. Sixth — That the original certificate of the acknowledg
ment of the mortgage was duly sealed, but it was recorded as if not duly
sealed.
Provided, however, that such mortgage was in other respects properly ex
ecuted, witnessed, acknowledged, delivered and recorded, and such foreclosure
was in other respects regular and according to the statute then in force.
Provided, further; that this act shall not affect or prejudice the rights of
any bona fide purchaser, and shall not apply to any action now pending.
1889, ch. 37: "An act legalizing past foreclosures of mortgages heretofore made as against
specified objections thereto." Approved March 7, 1889.
Sec. 5357. Same.— Mortgages, or assignments of mortgages, heretofore
made in good faith of real property within the limits of this state, and actually
recorded in the olh'ce of the proper register of deeds, but having, or having
been recorded as having only one subscribing witness to such mortgage or
assignment thereof, or not duly sealed, or having been recorded as if not duly
sealed, or the certificate of acknowledgment to which has not been duly sealed,
or lias been recorded as if not duly sealed, are, together with said records
thereof, hereby legalized and made valid to all intents and purposes as of,
from and after such actual recording thereof; and foreclosure sales, under
such mortgages, are hereby legalized and validated, provided all the proceed
ings in that behalf were in other respects according to the statute then in
force. Provided, further, that this act shall not affect or prejudice the rights
of any bona iide purchaser nor apply to any action now pending.
18S9, ch. yG: " An act legalizing certain mortgages and assignments heretofore made, as
well as the records and foreclosures thereof heretofore made, notwithstanding certain defects
in the execution or record of such mortgages.'' Approved March 8, 18i9.
Cebtificate of Sale.
Sec. 5358. Form of. — AVhenever any sale of real property is made under
a power of sale contained in any mortgage, the officer shall make, and deliver
to the purchaser, a certificate, under his hand and seal, containing —
First. A description of the mortgage under which such sale is made;
Second. A description of the real property sold;
Third. The price paid for each parcel sold separately;
Fourth. The date of the sale, and the name ot the purchaser; and
Fifth. The time allowed by law for redemption.
Said certificate shall be executed, proved or acknowledged, and recorded, as
required by law for a conveyance of real estate, within twenty days after such
sale.
" Acts 1877 did not repeal this sec
tion, and acts 1878 re-enacted it as it reads in G. S. Acts 1872, ch. 73, contained provision that
certificate be executed, proved, acknowledged and recorded within twenty days after confir
mation of sale. If not, the court could, after notice to all parties, order tnat another certifi
cate be given which could be recorded with same ell'ect. 18 M. 06; 20 M. 408; 24 M. 164; 35
M. 235; 35 M. 410; 35 M. 451; 37 M. 77; 38 M. 206.
Sec. 5359. Not invalid That no certificate executed under and by virtue
of section eleven, chapter eighty-one, title one, general statutes one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-eight, shall be deemed invalid, by reason of the
same not having been made, executed, proved, acknowledged, or recortled
within the twenty days mentioned in said section, and the record of all such
certificates heretofore executed, proved or acknowledged, and recorded after
the expiration of said twenty days is hereby legalized and made valid, and
the said record shall have the same force and effect as if the said certificates
had been executed, proved, acknowledged .and recorded withjn the said twenty
davs.
Sec. 5360. Operate as conveyance.— Such certificate, so proved, ac
knowledged and recorded, shall, upon the expiration of the time for redemp
tion, operate as a conveyance, to the purchaser or his assignees, of all the
right, title and interest of the mortgagor iri and to the premises named
therein, at the date of such mortgage, without any other conveyance what
ever.
Sec. 5361. Heretofore executed with one witness That sheriffs'
certificates issued on mortgage foreclosure sale or sales on execution authoriz
ing or relating to the conveyance of real estate, or any interest therein in this
state that have been heretofore executed, with but one subscribing witness,
are hereby declared to be legal and valid, and the record thereof effectual to
all intents and purposes as if such conveyance had been executed with two
subscribing witnesses, provided this act shall not apply to or affect any suit or
action now pending.
1889, ch. 38, § 1: " An act legalizing sheriffs' certificates issued on mortgage foreclosure and
execution sales." Approved February 21, 1889.
Sec. 5362. When may be set aside That the sheriff's certificate of
any sale, heretofore or hereafter made, under a power to sell contained in a
mortgage, shall be prima facie evidence that all the requirements of law in
that behalf have been duly complied with, and prima facie evidence of title
in fee thereunder in the purchaser at such sale, his heirs or assigns, after the
time for redemption therefrom has expired ; and no such sale shall be held in
valid or set asitle by reason of any defect in the notice thereof, or in the pub
lication or posting of such notice, or in the proceedings of the officer making
such sale, unless the action in which the validity of such sale shall be called
in question be commenced, or the defense alleging its invalidity be interposed
within live years after the date of such sale. Provided, that persons under
disability to sue by reason of being minors, insane persons, idiots, persons in
captivity or in any country with which the United States are at war when
such sale was made, may commence such action, or interpose such defense
at any time within five years after the removal of such disability. Provided
further, that such actions shall be commenced with reasonable diligence in
all cases.
1883, ch. 112: " An act prescribing the force and effect of sheriffs' certificates of sale made
under powers in mortgages, and limiting the time within which such sheriff sales may be
called in question." Approved March 1st. In force from September 1, 18S3. Acts 1S7S, ch.
77, provided for action to set aside or test the validity of foreclosure sale, and was repealed by
acts 1881, Ex. S. ch. 51.
Sec. 5363. Same. — That no foreclosure heretofore or hereafter made by
the mortgagee, his legal representatives, or assigns, of any mortgage on real
property within the limits of this state, shall be adjudged invalid or be set
aside, unless the action in which the validity of such foreclosure is called in
question be commenced or the defense alleging its invalidity be interposed
within twenty years from date of the foreclosure sale. Provided, that per
sons who, at the time of such foreclosure sale, were under disability to sue by
reason of being minors, insane persons, idiots or in captivity, may commence
such action or interpose such defense at any time within five years after re
moval of such disability. Provided, further, that such actions shall be com
menced with reasonable diligence in all cases; provided, that this act shall
not affect or prejudice the rights of any bona tide purchaser, nor apply to any
action or proceeding now pending in any court of this state; and jjrovided,
further, that nothing contained in this act shall be understood as intended to
repeal chapter1 one hundred and twelve of the general laws of Minnesota for
eighteen hundred and eighty-three or any part thereof.
1889, ch. 81: "An act limiting the time within which mortgage foreclosure sales may be
called in question." Approved March 19th. In force from January 1, 1890. 1 Sec. 5363, ante.
Sec. 5364. Same.— That the sheriff's certificate of any sale made and re
corded in the office of the register of deeds of the proper county, more than
twenty years prior to the passage of this act, under a power to sell contained
in any mortgage covering and describing the same lands, shall be sufficient
evidence that all the requirements of law in that behalf have been duly com
plied with and shall be sufficient evidence of title in fee thereunder in the
purchaser at such sale, bis heirs or assigns, after" the time for redemption
therefrom has expired, and no such sale shall be held invalid or set aside by
reason of any defect or irregularity of any kind in said foreclosure proceeding
unless the action in which the validity of such sale shall be called in question
be commenced, or the defense calling such foreclosure in question be made
within twenty years from the date of such sale. Provided that nothing
herein contained shall be construed as a repeal of chapter1 one hundred and
twelve, general laws of eighteen hundred and eighty-three, or any part thereof.
Provided, that nothing herein contained shall affect any action now pending,
nor apply to any alleged foreclosure proceedings, or certificate mentioned or
brought in question in such action, or the rights of any bona fide purchaser.
1889, ch. 33: " An act entitled an act prescribing the force and effect of sheriffs' cartificates
of sale made under powers in mortgages and limiting the time within which such sales may
be called in question." Approved April 24, 1889. In force from January 1, 1890. 1 Sec. 5362,
ante.
Perpetuate Evidence of Sale.
Sec. 5365. Affidavit of publication and sale.— Any party desiring to
perpetuate the evidence of any sale made in pursuance of the provisions of
this chapter, may procure —
First. An affidavit of the publication of the notice of sale, and of any no
tice of postponement, to be made by the printer of the newspaper in which
the same was inserted, or by some person in his employ knowing the facts;
and «
Second. An affidavit of the facts of any sale pursuant to such notice, to be
made by the person who acted as an auctioneer at the sale, stating the time
and place at which the same took place, the sum bid, and the name of the
purchaser, which affidavit may be taken and certified to by any officer au
thorized by law to administer oaths.
Sec. 5366. To be recorded.— Such affidavit shall be recorded at length
by the register of deeds of the county in which the premises are situated, in
a book kept for the record of deeds; and such original affidavits, the record
thereof, and certified copies of such record, shall be presumptive evidence of
the facts therein contained.
"all such affidavits heretofore recorded in books of deeds instead of mort
gages in the several counties of this state, and the records thereof, are hereby legalized to all
intents and ior all puiposes_to the same extent as though the same had been recorded in books
of mortgages,"
Sec 5367. Recording. — A note referring to the page and book where
the evidence of any sale having been made under a mortgage is recorded,
shall be made by the register recording such evidence, in the margin of the
record of such mortgage, if such record is in his office.
Sec. 5368. Effect of record.— A record of the affidavits herein provided,
and of the certificates executed on the sale of the premises, shall be sufficient
to pass the title thereto; and the said conveyance shall be an entire bar of all
claims or equity of redemption of the mortgagor, his heirs and representa
tives, and of all persons claiming under him or them, by virtue of any title
subsequent to such mortgage, except as herein provided.
Sec. 5369. Affidavit of costs and disbursements— That within ten
days after foreclosure of any mortgage under the provisions of this act, the
party foreclosing, or his attorney shall make and file for record with the reg%
ister of deeds in the county where the property is located, an affidavit of costs
and disbursements, setting forth in full a detailed bill of the costs and dis
bursements, including attorneys' fees embraced in the foreclosure sale, and
that the same has been absolutely and unconditionally paid or incurred.
1878, ch. 53, § 23, as amended 18S9, ch. 101. Approved April 23d. Same as hefore amendmeat.
Not in G. S. Acts 1S83, ch. 89, and 1885, ch. 234, enacted that affidavits under this Section heretofore filed and recorded, or which shall be hereafter filed and recorded within
one year thereafter, shall be received in evidence. 'iS M. 7 ; 37 M. 532. 3 tT~Ar■ rr. ff_ Ll
Sec. 5370. Affidavits legalized. — That in all cases where affidavits au
thorized by sections sixty-one and sixty-two of chapter seventy-three, and sec
tions nineteen, twenty and twenty-three of chapter eighty-one of the general
statutes of one thousand eight hundred and seventy-eight, havtf been heretofore
filed and recorded, or which shall be hereafter filed and recorded within one
year after the passage of this act, such affidavits or duly certified copies thereof
shall be received in evidence in the same manner and with same effect as if
the same had been tiled and recorded within the time in said sections limited.
No proceeding in which such affidavits might have been heretofore filed
and recorded shall be deemed invalid in consequence of the failure to file and
record the same within the time specified by said sections. Provided, that
nothing herein contained shall be held to affect any vested rights of any person
or persons not parties to such proceedings.
1885, ch. 234: "An act to legalize the filing of affidavits in certain cases and making them
evidence." Approved February 26, 1885. This &tatute same as 1S70, ch. 72. 1873, ch. 62, ap
proved February 7th. 1874, ch. 86, approved March 5th. 1876, ch. 69, approved February 28th,
contains no limitation. 1883, ch. 89, approved March 3d. Prior laws are 1863, ch. 82; 1865,
ch. 19; 1806, ch. 18; 1868, ch. 77; 1869, ,ch. 67.
Foreclosure by Instalments.
Sec. 5371. When and how made.— When a mortgage is given to secure
the payment of money by instalments, each of the instalments, either of prin
cipal or interest, mentioned in such mortgage, may be taken and deemed to be
a separate and independent mortgage for each of such instalments, [and] may
be foreclosed in the same manner, and with like effect, as if such separate
mortgage was given for each of such subsequent instalments; and a redemption
of any such sale by the mortgagor shall have the like effect as if the sale for
such instalments had been made upon an independent mortgage.
Sec 5372. Sale under. — In such case, if the mortgaged premises consist
of separate and distinct farms or tracts, only such tract or tracts shall be sold
as are sufficient to satisfy the instalment then due, with interest and costs of
sale; but if said premises do not consist of such separate and distinct farms or
tracts, the whole shall be sold; and, in either case, the proceeds of such sale
shall, after satisfying the interest, portion or instalment of the principal due,
with interest and costs of sale, be applied towards the payment of the residue
of the sum secured by said mortgage, and not due and payable at the time of
such sale; and if such residue does not bear interest, such application shall be
mane with a rebate of the legal interest for the time during which the residue
shall not be due and payable; and the surplus, if any, shall be paid to the
mortgagor, his legal representatives or assigns.
i G. S. ch. 81, g4, as amended 1877, ch. 121; 1878. ch. 53, g 4. Acts 1877 excepted this sec
tion from general repeal, and acts 1878 re-enacted it as it stood in G. S. 30 M. 7; 26 M. 312; 26
M. 052.
Foreclosure by Foreign Executor.
Sec. 5373. When and how. — Any executor or administrator duly ap
pointed in any other state or country may foreclose by advertisement any
mortgage of land in this state, belonging to the estate represented by him, in.
the same manner, and under like restrictions, as a resident, appointed in this
state, may do: provided, that before commencing any such foreclosure, an
authenticated copy of his appointment as such executor or administrator is
tiled for record in the office of the register of deeds of the county in which
such foreclosure is to be commenced.
1876, ch. 41: "An act to enable foreign executors and administrators to foreclose mort
gages by advertisements." Approved February 10, 1870.
Sec 5374. Sale legalized.— That all foreclosures heretofore made under Section twenty-five of chapter eighty-one of the general statutes of a. d. one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-eight, and the executor or administrator
was at the commencement of such foreclosure, authorized so to do by said Section twenty-live, except that he had tiled the authenticated copy of his
appointment required by said section twenty-five with the probate court of
the proper county, instead of filing such authenticated copy for record in the
office of the register of deeds of the proper count}", be and the same are
hereby legalized an.d made valid from and after the filing and recording thereof
in the office of the register of deeds; provided, that the time to redeem from
such foreclosure is hereby extended one year from and after the filing and
recording of said authenticated copy; provided further, that this act shall not
be construed as to impair or in any way affect any vested right, nor actions
now pending.
1880, ch. 102: " An act to legalize certain foreclosure proceedings by executors and admin
istrators.'' Approved March 7, 1S80.
Sec. 5375. Same. — In all cases whore mortgages have been foreclosed by
foreign executors or administrators, withouff having filed for record in the.
oliice of the register of deeds in the county where such foreclosure was had,
an authenticated copy of his appointment as such executor or administrator
before the commencement of such foreclosure, such foreclosure shall not for
that reason be invalid; provide t, that since such foreclosure was commenced
such authenticated copy has been so Hied, showing that he had been duly ap
pointed such executor or administrator in some other stale or county before
the commencement of such foreclosure.
1880, ch. 238 : " An act to legalize the foreclosure of mortgages by foreign executors and ad
ministrators in certain cases." Approved March 31, 1880.
Redemption.
Sec. 537G. By mortgagor, etc — Interest — The mortgagor, his heirs,
administrators or assigns, whose real property is sold in conformity
to the provisions of this act, may, within twelve months after such sale, re
deem such property as hereinafter provided, by paying the sum of money for
which the same was sold, together with interest on the same from the time of
such sale:* provided, that no redemption shall be made for real property sold
in conformity to the provisions of this act, when the mortgage foreclosed con
tains a distinct rate of interest more than seven per cent, per annum, unless
the party entitled to redeem shall pay, within the time provided, the sum for
wh.' h said property was sold, together with interest thereon, from the ilate of
sale to the time of redemption, at the rate specified in the mortgage, not to
exceed ten per cent, per annum: provided, that when no rate of interest is
specified in the mortgage, the rate of interest after sale shall be seven percent,
per annum on the amount for which the property was sold.
Sec 537S. How made.— Eedemption shall be made as follows: The per
son desiring to redeem shall pay to the person holding the right acquired under
such sale, or for him to the sheriff who made the sale, or his successor in office,
the amount required by law for such redemption, and shall produce to such
person or officer — >
First. A certified copy of the docket of the judgment, or the deed of con
veyance or mortgage, or of the record or files evidencing any ot her lien under
which he claims a right to redeem, certified by the officer in whose custod}'
such docket, record or files shall be;
Second. Any assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified by the
affidavit of himself or the subscribing witness thereto, or of some person ac
quainted with the signature of the assignor; and
Third. An affidavit of himself or his agent, showing the amount then actu
ally duo on his lien.
Pile With register of deeds. — * Within twenty-four hours after such re
demption is made, the party redeeming shall cause the documents so required
to be produced, to be filed in the office of the register of deeds of the county
in which the mortgaged lands are situated, and the register of deeds shall en
dorse thereon the date and hour of receiving the same, and shall preserve such
documents in his office for one year thereafter, for which service he shall be
entitled to receive one dollar. Provided, that in case such redemption shall
be made at any place other than the county seat, it shall be deemed a suffi
cient compliance herewith to forthwith deposit such documents in the nearest
post office, addressed to such register of deeds, with the postage thereon pre
paid.
Sec 5379. Certificate of redemption — The person or officer from whom
such redemption is made, shall make, and deliver to the person redeeming, a
certificate under his hand and seal, containing —
First. The name of the person redeeming, and the amount paid by him on
such redemption ;
Second. A description of the sale for which such redemption is made, and
of the propert}7 redeemed; and
Third. Stating upon what claim such redemption is made, and, if upon a
lien, the amount claimed to be due thereon at the date of redemption.
i
Such certificates shall be executed, and proved or acknowledged, and re
corded, as provided by law for conveyances of real estate ; and if not so recorded
•within ten days after such redemption, such redemption and certificate is void
as against any person in good faith making redemption from the same person
or lien. If such redemption is made by the owner of the property sold, his
heirs or assigns, such redemption annuls the sale; if by a creditor holding a
lien upon the property or any part thereof, said certificate, so executed, and
proved or acknowledged, and recorded, operates as an assignment to him of
the right acquired under such sale, subject to such right of any other person
to redeem as is or may be provided by law.
Sec. 5380. Conform to civil actions Actions for the foreclosure of
mortgages, shall be governed by the same rules and provisions of statute as
civil actions, except as herein otherwise expressly prescribed.
Sec. 5381. Summons.— Service by publication of the summons, in the
manner provided in section 1 five, of title one of this chapter, for publication
of the notice of sale therein specified, may be made upon all parties to the ac
tion against whom no personal judgment is sought; and in such case judgment
may be taken without giving security as to those parties, at the expiration of
twenty days after the completion of the period of publication ; but such parties
or any of them shall be permitted to appear and defend, upon good cause
shown, at any time before final decree.
"per-^
sonal " before word judgment and acts 1878 restored it. 1 Sec. 5346, ante. £f y 777. y. ^>~
Sec. 5382. Preceding sections. — The provisions of sections three, four,
/ nine, eleven, fourteen, fifteen and seventeen of title one aforesaid, shall apply
to an(^ &overn proceedings under this title.
Section 11 be executed and recorded within twenty days after confirmation of report of sale,
and if not the court could order another certificate to be given after proper notice to all parties.
Acts 1876, ch. 39, § 2, amended this section as above without mentioning previous amend
ments. The reference is togg 5371, 5372, 5350, 5358, 5378, 5379 and 5352, ante.
Judgment of Foreclosure.
Sec. 5383. For amount due and order of sale — Judgment shall be
entered, under the direction of the court, adjudging the amount due, with
costs and disbursements, and the sale of the mortgaged premises, or some part
thereof, to satisfy said amount, and directing the sheriff to proceed and sell
the same, according to the provisions of law relating to sales of real estate on
execution, and make report to the court.
Sec. 5384. For sale of whole of mortgaged premises Nothing
herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent the court from adjudging
that the whole of the mortgaged premises shall be sold, notwithstanding they
consist of distinct farms or tracts, whenever it is made to appear that a sale of
the whole will be most beneficial to the interests of the parties.
Sec. 5385. For strict foreclosure.— Nothing contained in this chapter
shall be so construed as to prevent judgment being given for the strict fore
closure of a mortgage, in cases when such remedy is just or appropriate; but
in case of strict foreclosure, no final decree of foreclosure shall be rendered
until the lapse of one year after the judgment adjudging the amount due on
such mortgage.
1870, ch. 58, § 2 : "An act to repeal § 23, title 2, ch. 81, and add a new section to said title 2,
relating to the foreclosure of mortgages." Approved March 7th. 13 M. 194; 21 M. 101; 28
M. 22.
Sec. 5386. For instalments.— Whenever an action is brought for the
foreclosure of any mortgage upon which there is due any interest, or any portion
or instalment of the principal, and there are other portions or instalments to
become due subsequently, the action shall be dismissed, upon the defendant's
bringing into court, at any time before the judgment of sale, the principal and
interest due, with costs.
Sec 5387. Same — Proceedings stayed.— If, after a judgment of sale
is entered against a defendant in such case, he brings into court the principal
and interest due, with costs, the proceedings in the action shall be stayed;
but the court shall enter a judgment of foreclosure and sale, to be enforced,
by a further order of the court, upon a subsequent default in the payment of
any portion or instalment of the principal, or of any interest thereafter to
grow due.
Sec. 5388. Authority for making.— A transcript of such judgment shall
be made, and signed by the judge, or certified by the clerk, and delivered to
the sheriff, and shall be his authority for making the sale.
Sec. 5389. Purchase by mortgagee. — The mortgagee, or any one claim
ing under him, may fairly and in good faith bid off the premises at said sale;
and in such case the statement of such fact in the report of sale shall have the
same effect as a receipt for money paid upon a sale for cash.
Sec. 5390. Confirmation of sale. — Upon the coming in of the report of.
sale, the court shall grant an order confirming the same, or, if it appears upon
due examination that justice has not been done, may order a resale on such
terms as are just.
Sec. 5391. Same — Notice of application. — That no order confirming
sheriff's report of sale upon a decree on trial in foreclosure shall be set aside
or deemed invalid upon the ground that notice of application to the court to
confirm report of sale was not served upon the adverse party or his counsel
before the giving of the order by the court. And the order and the record
of all such orders so entered without notice is hereby legalized and made valid,
and said order and the record thereof shall have the same force and effect as
if notice of the application had been duly served upon the adverse party or
his attorney. Provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed to
apply to cases now pending, which involve the legality or validity of such
sale.
Sec
5392.
Delivery
of
possession.—
Whenever
possession
of lands
fore
closed
as
aforesaid
is wrongfully
withheld
after
final
decree,
the
court
may
compel
delivery
of possession
to the
party
entitled
thereto,
by
order
directing
the
sheriff
to effect
such
delivery.
Sec
5393.
Entry
of
satisfaction
of judgment.—Upon
confirmation
of
the
report
of sale,
the
clerk
shall
enter
satisfaction
of the
judgment,
to the
extent
of the
sum
bid
for
the
premises,
less
expenses
and
costs;
and
for
any
balance
of said
judgment,
execution
may
issue
as
in other
cases;
but
no such
execution
shall
issue
on
such
judgment
until
after
a sale
of the
mortgaged
premises,
and
the
application
of
the
amount
realized
as aforesaid.
Sec
5394.
Surplus
brought
into
court.—Whenever
there
is a sale
for
cash,
under
the
provisions
of
this title,
and,
after
satisfying
the
mortgage
debt,
with
costs
and
expenses,
there
is a surplus,
it shall
be
brought
into
court
for
the
benefit
of the
mortgagor,
or the
person
entitled
thereto,
subject
to the
order
of the
court.
Sec
5395.
Surplus
to be
invested.—
If such
surplus,
or any
part
thereof,
remains
in the
said
court
for
the
term
of three
months,
without
being
applied
for,
the
district
judge
may
direct
the
same
to
be
put
out
at interest,
subject
to
the
order
of the
court,
for
the
benefit
of the
defendant,
his
representatives
or
assigns,
to be
paid
to them
by
the
order
of
the
court.
Sec.
5396.
By
mortgagor,
creditor.—
The
mortgagor,
or
those
claim.
ing
under
him,
shall
have
one
year
after
the
date
of the
order
of confirmation,
in
which
to
redeem
the
premises
sold,
or
any
separate
portion
thereof,
by
paying
the
amount
bid
therefor,
with
interest
thereon
from
the
day
of sale:
and
judgment
or other
lien
creditors
may
redeem
in
the
order
and
manner
specified
in title
one
of this chapter:
provided,
that
no
creditor
shall
be entitled
to redeem,
unless,
within
the
year
allowed
for
redemption,
he files
notice
of
his
intention
to redeem,
in the
office
of the
district
clerk
where
the
judg:
ment
is entered.
!
Sec.
5397.
When
–
Form
and
effect
of.At
the
expiration
of
the
time
for
redemption,
and
no
one
redeeming,
the
court,
upon
the
applica,
tion
of the
purchaser
or
his
assigns,
shall
grant
a final
decree,
which
shall
recite
the
judgment
aforesaid,
the
fact
of
sale,
the
premises
sold,
and
the
bid
therefor,
and
that
no
redemption
has
been
made,
and
shall
adjudge
and
decree
that
the title
to
said
premises
is in
said
purchaser
or his
assigns
free
and
clear
of
all
equity
of
redemption
on
the
part
of
any
one
who
is a
party
to the
judgment.
Such
decree,
being
recorded
in the
office
of the
reg
ister
of deeds
of the
county
in which
the
premises
lie,
shall
be
effectual
to pass
the title
to the
same
as against
the
parties
aforesaid.
Sec 5398. Amount allowed.— That in all cases and whenever any
mortgage hereinafter executed, covering any lands in this state, shall contain
any covenant on the part of the mortgagor to pay any sum as an attorney’s or
solicitor's fee in case of the foreclosure of such mortgage, or when any such
mortgage shall contain any stipulation or provision, authorizing or empower
ing the mortgagee, in case of any sale of the mortgaged premises, either upon
foreclosure by action or by advertisement, to retain any sum whatever as an
attorney's or solicitor's fee, the amount of such fee contained in such mort
gage shall not exceed the following sums, to wit: when the amount of the
debt secured by such mortgage shail not exceed the sum of five hundred dol
lars, the amount of such attorney’s or solicitor's fee shall not exceed the sum
of twenty-five dollars; when the amount of such debt shall exceed the sum of
five hundred dollars, and shall not exceed the sum of one thousand dollars, the
amount of such fee shall not exceed the sum of fifty dollars; when the amount
of such debt shall exceed the sum of one thousand dollars, and shall not exceed
the sum of five thousand dollars, the amount of such fee shall not exceed the
sum of seventy-five dollars; when the amount of such debt shall exceed the
sum of five thousand dollars, and shall not exceed the sum of ten thousand
dollars, the amount of such fee shall not exceed the sum of one hundred dol
lars; when the amount of such debt shall exceed the sum of ten thousand
dollars, the amount of such fee shall not exceed the sum of two hundred
dollars; and in all cases where any such mortgage shall contain any cove
hant to pay, or shall in any manner authorize or permit the retaining or
application of, any greater sum as an attorney's or solicitor's fee, in case of
the foreclosure of such mortgage, than as is herein provided, such covenant
or authority shall be void for the excess of such fee above the fee herein pro
Vided; and no such excess whatever shall be collected, retained or applied, by
Virtue of anything in such mortgage contained.
1873, ch. 49, § 1: “An act fixing the amount of attorney’s or solicitor's fee to be contained
£"upon real estate situate within this state.” Approved March 7th. In force from
y 1, -
Sec. 5399. No fees unless attorney actually employed.— That in all
cases where any mortgagee, or his heirs, executors, administrators or assigns,
shall foreclose any mortgage without the employment of an attorney of the
courts of record of this state to conduct such foreclosure, such mortgagee or
other person shall not be entitled to collect, demand, receive or retain any
sum whatever as an attorney's or solicitor's fee; and in all such cases, where
any sum whatever as or for such fee is included in or made a part of the
amount of the bid upon which the mortgaged premises are sold, the amount
of such fee so included in such bid shall be paid in money by the purchaser
to the sheriff or other officer making such sale, before the certificate of such
sale shall be executed, and shall be by such sheriff or other officer paid to the
mortgagor, or those having his estate in the mortgaged premises.
1873, ch. 49, § 2. 28 M. 466. -
Sec 5400. Collect and retain.—That where any such mortgage shall
contain any covenant to pay, or any stipulation or provision authorizing or
empowering the mortgagee, in case of any foreclosure sale of the mortgaged
premises, to retain, any sum such as is in this act provided as an attorney's or
solicitor's fee, such mortgagee, or his heirs, executors, administrators or assigns,
shall be entitled to collect or retain such fee upon the foreclosure of such
mortgage, either by action or advertisement.
Sec. 5401. To pass title. — The district court has power to pass the title
to real estate by a judgment, without any other act to be done on the part of
the defendant, when such appears to be the proper mode to carry its judg
ments into effect; and such judgment, being recorded in the registry of deeds
of the county where such real estate is situated, shall, while in force, be as
effectual to transfer the same as the deed of the defendant.
Sec. 5402. To order survey.— The court in which an action is pending
for the recovery of real property, may,on motion, upon notice by either party,
and for cause shown, grant an order allowing to such party the right to enter
upon the property, and make survey and measurement thereof for the purpose
of the action.
Sec. 5403. Same — Contents of order.— The order shall describe the
property, and a copy thereof shall be served on the owner or occupant; and
thereupon such party may enter upon the property with necessary surveyors
and assistants, and make such survey and measurement; but if any unneces
sary injury is done to the property, he is liable therefor.
Sec 5404. Not prejudiced by alienation.— An action for the recovery
of real property, against a person in possession or in receipt of the rents and
profits thereof, cannot be prejudiced by an alienation made by such person,
either before or after the commencement of the action; but in such case if
the defendant has no property sufficient to satisfy the damages recovered for
358
the withholding of possession, such damages may be collected by action against
the purchaser.
Sec. 5405. Termination of right pending suit.— In an action for the
recovery of real property, when the plaintiff shows a right to recover at the
time the action was commenced, butitappears that such right has terminated
during the pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment shall be accord
ing to the fact, and the plaintiff may recover damages for withholding the
property.
Sec. 5406. Notice to quit in estates at will. — Estates at will may be
determined by either party, by three months' notice in writing for that pur
pose, given to the other party; and when the rent reserved is payable at
periods of less than three months, the time of such notice shall be sufficient,
if it is equal to the interval between the times of payment; and in all cases of
neglect or refusal to pay the rent due on a lease at will, fourteen days' notice
to quit, given in writing by the landlord to the tenant, is sufficient to deter
mine the lease.
Sec. 5407. When mortgagee entitled to possession — A mortgage
of real property is not to be deemed a conveyance, so as to enable the owner
of the mortgage to recover possession of the real property without a fore
closure. •
Sec 5408. Treble damages.— If a person, put out of real property in a
forcible manner, without lawful authority, or, being so put out, is afterwards
kept out by force, recovers damages therefor, judgment may be entered for
three times the amount at which the actual damages are assessed.
Sec. 5409. Same.— In case of forcible entry or forcible detention, if a
person claiming in good faith, under color of title, to be rightfully in posses
sion, so put out, or kept out, recovers damages therefor, judgment may be
entered in his favor for three times the amount at which the actual damages
are assessed.
Sec 5410. Rights of aliens. — Aliens may take, hold, transmit and con
vey real estate; and no title to real estate shall be invalid on account of the
alienage of any former owner.
Sec 5411. When to be brought— An action may be brought by any
person in possession, by himself or his tenant, of real property, against any
person who claims an estate or interest therein, or lien upon the same, adverse
to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate, lien or in
terest; and any person having or claiming title to vacant or unoccupied real
estate may bring an action against any person claiming an estate or interest
therein adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, and
the rights of the parties respectively.
Sec. 5412. Unknown parties. — That in any action brought to determine
any adverse claim, estate, lien, or interest in real property, under section two
of chapter seventy-live of the general statutes A. D. one thousand eight hun
dred and seventy-eight, the plaintiff may include as defendant in such action,
and insert in the title thereof, in addition to the names of such persons or par
ties as appear of record to have, and other persons or parties who are known
to have some title, claim, estate, lien or interest in the lands in controversy,
the following, viz: "Also all other persons or parties unknown, claiming any
right, title, estate, lien or interest in the real estate described in the complaint
herein." And service of the summons may be had upon all such unknown
persons or parties defendant, by publication, as provided by law in case of
non-resident defendants. And all such unknown persons or parties so served,
shall have the same rights as are provided by law in case of all the other de
fendants upon whom service is made by publication, and the action shall pro
ceed against such unknown persons or parties in the same manner as against
ihe defendants who are named, upon whom service is made by publication,
and with like effect; and an}7 such unknown persons or parties who have or
claim any right, estate, lien or interest in the said property in controversy, at
the time of the commencement of the action duly served as aforesaid, shall be
bound and concluded by the judgment in such case, if the same is in favor
ot the plaintiff therein, as effectually as if the action was brought against such
defendant by his or her name, and personal service of the summons obtained.
Provided, however, that such judgment shall not bind such unknown per
sons or parties defendants, unless the plaintiff shall file a notice of lis pendens
in the office of register of deeds, as provided by law, before commencing the
publication of the said summons, and a copy of said notice of lis pendens be
printed and published with said summons, and following next thereafter in
the columns of the newspaper wherein said summons is printed and published.
1881, Ex. S. ch. 81 : " An act relating to actions brought to determine adverse claims to real
estate under section 2, ch. 75, G. S. 1878." Approved November 22, 1881.
Sec. 5413. Disclaimer — Default.— If the defendant in such action dis
claims, in his answer, any interest or estate in the property, or suffers judg
ment to be taken against him without answer, the plaintiff cannot recover
costs.
Costs. — * But if the summons has been served upon the defendant per
sonally, and it is made to appear that, after the cause of action has accrued
and before the commencement of the action, the plaintiff has demanded in
writing of defendant, and defendant has neglected to furnish within a reason
able time thereafter, a good and sufficient quit-claim deed to the property de
scribed in the complaint, upon tender of such deed ready for execution, the
plaintiff shall nevertheless recover his costs.
Sec 5414. Second trial.— Any person' against whom a judgment is re
covered in an action for the recovery of real property, may, within six months
after written notice of such judgment, upon payment of all costs and dam
ages recovered thereby, demand another trial, by notice in writing to the
adverse party, or his attorney in the action; and thereupon the action shall
be retried, and may be brought to trial by either party. Provided, that in all
cases in which an appeal shall be taken from such judgment to the supreme
court, such demand for another trial may bo made at any time within six
months after written notice of the determination of such appeal, and there
upon the action shall be retried, and may be brought to trial by either party.'
Sec. 5415. Judgment on second trial. — The judgment given on atrial
to be had under the last section shall be annexed to the judgment-roll of the
former trial, and the judgment last given shall be the final determination of
the rights of the parties. If a prior judgment has been executed, restitution
shall be ordered as the last judgment may determine the rights of the parties,
and the same may be enforced by execution.
Sec. 541C. Removal of buildings, etc.— Any person who erects any
building, tenement or fences upon land, in good faith, and having color of title, and good reason to believe that the legal title to such lands is or was
vested in him, when, in fact, such title was or is not in him, and he has no
legal or equitable rights whereby he can enforce a conveyance to him of such title, such person shall be entitled to and may remove such buildings, tene
ments or fences from said land, doing no unnecessary damage to the land, and,
in so doing, shall only be liable for the actual damage done the land : provided,
that no person shall remove a building or fence, under the provisions of this Section, unless he removes the same within sixty days after the determination
of the action or proceeding respecting the title to the premises on which such
building or fence is erected, as contemplated herein, or within sixty days after
notice to remove the same, given by the holder of the legal title, unless, within
said sixty days, an action is commenced and prosecuted to try such question
of title.
Sec. 5417. Damages recoverable.— Damages for withholding the prop
erty recovered, shall not exceed the fair value of the property, exclusive of the
use of improvements made by the defendant, for a period not exceeding six
years; and when permanent improvements have been made by a defendant
or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title adversely to the
claims of the plaintiff, in good faith, the value thereof shall be allowed as a
set-off against the damages of the plaintiff for the use of the property.
Sec. 5418. Compensated for improvements.— Where any person, un
der color of title in fee, and in good faith, has peacefully taken possession of any
land for which he has given a valuable consideration, or when any person has
taken possession of any land under the official deed of any person or officer
empowered by law, or by any court of competent jurisdiction, to sell laud, and
such pei'son has no actual notice of any defects invalidating such deed, and
such deed is regular upon its face, neither such person, nor his heirs, repre
sentatives or assigns, shall be ejected from such land, except as hereinafter
provided, until compensation is tendered him or them for all improvements
which he or they may have made upon said land previous to actual notice of
the claim upon which the action is founded, or, in case of possession under an
official deed, previous to actual notice of defects invalidating the same.
1873. ch. 55, § 1: " An act to protect bona fide occupants of real estate." Approved March
10, 1873. 22 M. 488 ; 32 M. 528; 30 M. 376; 27 M. 62, 101, 452; 37 M. 157; 38 M. 30, 238, 436;
38 N. W. 758.
Sec. 5419. Same — When not in possession. — All the provisions of
this act shall apply to cases where occupant is not, as well as where he is, in.
actual possession, and also to cases where the action is brought by the occu
pant himself to determine an adverse claim.
1873, ch. 55, § 10. 27 M. 62.
Sec. 5420. "Improvements" defined — The word "improvements,"
as used in this act, shall be construed to include all kinds of buildings, fences,
ditching, draining, grubbing, clearing, breaking, and all other necessary or
useful labor of permanent value to the land.
1873, ch. 55, g 5.
Sec. 5421. Non-resident. — When occupant holds as heir or devisee, or
as grantee, either immediate or remote, of any person who is a non-resident of
this state, the good faith of the original taker shall be presumed.
1873, ch. 55, § 9.
Sec. 5422. Pleadings — Trial — Verdict.— In any action to try the title
to land, the occupant may, in addition to his other defences, allege the amount
and value of all improvements made by himself or those under whom he
claims, and also the amount of all taxes and assessments paid upon such land
by himself or those under whom he claims, and, if the claim be under an offi
cial deed, the purchase-money paid therefor; the claimant may reply, alleging
the value of the premises, without the improvements, at the time of the com
mencement of the action, and also the value of the yearly rent of the land,
without the improvements, during the possession of the occupant. In case the title is found to be in the claimant, the jury, or court, in case the action is
tried without a jury, shall assess the value of all improvements made, and all
taxes or assessments paid upon the land by the occupant, or those under whom
he claims, with interest at seven per cent., and, if his claims be under an offi
cial deed, regular upon its face, 'and without actual notice of any defect inval
idating the same, shall also find the purchase-money paid by him or those
under whom he claims, with interest thereon at seven per cent. The jury, or
court in case of trial by the court, shall also assess the value of the land at the
time of commencing the action, without the improvements, and also the value
of yearly rent thereof during the occupant's possession.
1873, ch. 55, § 2. 22 M. 541; 29 M. 266 ; 27 M. 453.
Sec. 5423. When land has depreciated.— In case the land has depre
ciated in value since its purchase at an official sale, the jury, or court in case
of trial by the court, may allow such part only of the purchase-money as, in
their discretion, they may see fit.
1873, ch. 55, § 8.
Sec 5424. Compensation before execution.— Should claimant suc
ceed in the action, execution for possession shall not issue, except as herein
provided, unless, within one year from the entry of judgment on the verdict,
or the finding of the court, the claimant pay into court for the occupant the
amount so found as the value of the improvements, and also the amount of
the taxes or assessments, and also the purchase-money, if occupant claim under
an official deed as aforesaid, with interest thereon as aforesaid, less the as
sessed value of the yearly rent of the land, without the improvements, during
occupant's possession.
1873, ch. 55. g 3, as amended 1889, ch. 190, by striking out "rendition of " and inserting
" entry of judgment on." 38 M. 435.
Sec 5425. Occupant pay value of land, when.— Unless the occupant
claims under an official deed, given either to himself or to those under whom
he claims, as provided in section one of this act, the claimant may, within
thirty days after * entry of judgment on the verdict, or finding of the court
in his favor, serve upon the occupant a written demand that within one year
he pay claimant the sum assessed as the value of the land without improve
ments, less the taxes or assessments paid thereon as aforesaid, with interest
as aforesaid. Such demand shall be served, and the service proved, as in case
of a summons, and shall then be filed with the clerk of the court where the
judgment was rendered. If occupant do not, within one year after the serv
ice of such demand, pay into court for claimant the amount so demanded, he
shall forfeit all claim to compensation, and execution may then issue for the
possession of the land. If he do so pay into court the amount demanded, the
court shall, by decree, confirm the title in him. But when the occupant claims
under an olficial deed, as provided in section one of this act, which is regular
upon its face, and occupant had no notice of any defect making it void, exe
cution shall not issue, unless claimant, within one year* after judgment pay
into court the value of improvements, taxes, assessments, purchase-money and
interest, as provided in section three of this act: provided, that When claimant
has had notice, either actual or constructive, of /occupant's possession, or when
the claim of the occupant is derived through or under any entry in the laudoffice
of the United States, or the official certificate, duplicate or receipt
thereof, the provisions of this section shall not apply, and execution shall not
issue, unless plaintiff comply with the provisions of section three of this act.
1873. ch. 05, sj 4, as amended 1S80, ch. 190, by inserting " entry of judgment on " and " after
judgment" at *. 38 M. 430.
Sec. 5426. Remove crops. — The occupant, in case of ejection, shall be
entitled to enter the land, and gather and remove all crops sown thereon pre
vious to the entry of judgment against him.
1873, ch. 55, § 6.
Sec. 5427. Apply to all actions testing title.— In case an action' is
brought for damages for trespass upon such land, or for the rents and profits,
or use and occupation thereof, or in any other form, but which action is in
effect one testing the validity of the title thereto, all the foregoing provisions
of this act shall so far as possible be complied with; and the value of all im
provements, taxes and assessments, and purchase money, in case the occupant
claims under an official deed, with interest as aforesaid, shall be set off against
any judgment for money that the claimant may obtain; and if any excess
remains in favor of occupant after such set-off, such excess may be set off
against any judgment or judgments that claimant or those claiming under
him may subsequently obtain, in any such or similar action relating to said
land.
1873, ch. 55, § 7.
Special Actions.
Sec. 5428. By reversioners. — A person seized of an estate in remainder
or reversion may maintain a civil action for any injury done to the inheritance,
notwithstanding an intervening estate for life or years.
Sec. 5429. For dower or against cotenant In an action for the re
covery of dower, before admeasurement, or by a tenant in common, or joint
tenant of real property, against a cotenant, the plaintiff shall show, in addi
tion to the evidence of his right, that the defendant either denied the plaint
iff's right or did some act amounting to such denial.
Sec. 5430. By joint tenant or tenant in common.— One joint tenant
or tenant in common, and his executors or administrators, may maintain an
action against his cotenant for receiving more than his just proportion of the
rents or profits of the estate owned by them as joint tenants or tenants in
common.
Sec. 5431. By claimants under common grantor— Whenever lots
or tracts of real estate are claimed in severalty by two or more persons from,
or under conveyance from, the same grantor as the common source of title,
and a claim or title thereto is set up or made by any one else as against the title of such grantor, any one claiming under such grantor may bring an ac
tion, on behalf of himself and all others who may come in and become par
ties to such action, against the person so claiming adversely, to have the title
of such grantor perfected, settled or quieted, as to the lots or real estate
claimed by the plaintiff and others who may become parties to the action;
and in such action, any person who claims title to property by conveyance
from or under the same grantor or common source as the plaintiff, and when title thereto is disputed or controverted by the same defendant, upon the same
ground as that of the plaintiff, may come in as of course and become a party
in such action, by tiling a statement therein in the form of a complaint, set
ting- forth the property he claims, and his source of title, and may have his
rights adjudicated the same as the plaintiff who commenced the action. The
answer of the defendant to the complaint of the plaintiff shall be taken and
considered as an answer also to all who may thus come in and become parties
to such action.
, 1870, ch. 57: "An act relating to parties in civil actions." Approved March 1, 1870.
Sec 5432. Against unknown heirs ■ That when the heirs of a deceased
person are proper parties defendant to any action relating to real property in
this state, and when the names and residences of such heirs are unknown, such
heirs may be proceeded against under the name and title of "the unknown
heirs" of the deceased.
1807, ch. 69, § 1 : " An act to provide for service of process in certain cases." Approved
March 7, 1867. See 2 N. Dig. 381 ; 4 Pet. 400; 14 How. 334.
Sec. 5433. Publication of summons — Upon presenting an affidavit to
the court or judge, showing to his satisfaction that the heirs of such deceased per
son are proper parties to the action, and that their names and residences cannot
with use of reasonable diligence be ascertained, such court or judge may grant
an order that service of the summons in such action be made on such " un
known heirs," by publication thereof in the same manner as in actions against
non-resident defendants.
1867, ch. 09, § 2.
Sec. 5434. Effect of judgment. — Any order, judgment or decree made or
rendered in any such case shall be valid and binding on such unknown heirs,
whether they be of age or minors.
1807, ch. 69, S 3.
Sec. 5435. Admitted to defend after judgment Such heirs may, on
application to the court, and on sufficient cause shown, be allowed to defend
such action, at any time within one year after the rendition of judgment
thereon: provided, that if it shall appear that such heirs were minors at the
time such judgment was rendered, they may be allowed to defend the action
at any time within two years from the day of their becoming of age.
1867, ch. 69, § 4.
Sue. 5436. For waste — If a guardian, tenant by the curtesy, in dower,
for life or years, joint tenant, or tenant in common, of real property, commits
waste thereon, any person injured by the waste may bring an action against
him therefor, in which action there may be judgment for treble damages, for
feiture of the estate of the party offending, and eviction from the property.
Sec. 5437. Same — Judgment. — Judgment of forfeiture and eviction can
only be given in favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the ten
ant in possession, when the injury to the estate in reversion is adjudged in the
action to be equal to the value of the tenant's estate or unexpired terra, or to
have been done in malice.
Sec. 5438. For Wilful trespass. — Whoever cuts dow n or carries off any
wood or underwood, tree or timber, or girdles, or otherwise injures, any tree,
timber, or shrub, on the land of another person, or in the street or highway
in front of any person's house, village or city lot, or cultivated grounds, or on
the commons or public grounds of any city or town, or on the street or high
way in front thereof, without lawful authority, is liable to the owner of such
land, or to such city or town, for treble the amount of damages which may be
assessed therefor, in a civil action in any court having jurisdiction, except as
provided in the next section.
Sec. 5439. Same — Single damages — If, upon trial of such action, it
appears that the trespass was casual or involuntary, or that the defendant had
probable cause to believe that the land on which the trespass was committed
was his own, or that of the person in whose service, or by whose direction, the
act was done, judgment shall be given for only the single damages assessed in
the action.
Sec 5440. . Same — When recovery for just value.— Nothing in the
last two sections authorizes the recovery of more than the just value of the
timber taken from uncultivated wood land, for the repair of a public highway
or bridge upon the land, or adjoining it.
Sec 5441. Trespass after execution sale.— When real property is sold
on execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded
to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for in
jury to the property by the tenant in possession, after the sale, and before pos
session is delivered under the conveyance.
Sec 5442. To abate nuisance. — Anything which is injurious to health,
or indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or prop
erty, is a nuisance, and the subject of an action ; such action may be brought
by any person whose property is injuriously affected, or whose personal en
joyment is lessened by the nuisance; and, by the judgment, the nuisance may
be enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.
Sec. 5443. Notice — Filing — Discharge — In all actions heretofore or
hereafter commenced, in which the title to, or any lien upon, or interest
in real property shall be affected, involved or brought in question by either
party, any party to such action may, at the commencement or any time during
the pendency thereof, file for record in the office of the register of deeds of
each county in which the real property so affected, involved or brought in
question, or some part thereof, is situated, a notice of the pendency of the
action, containing the names of the parties, the object of the action, and a de
scription of the real property in the county affected, involved or brought in
question thereby. And when any pleading in such action is amended by alter
ing the description of the premises affected, involved or brought in question,
or so as to extend the claim against such premises, the party filing such notice
shall file a new notice. And the register of deeds shall record all such no
tices in the same book and in the same manner as mortgages are recorded.
From the time of filing such notice, and from such time only, the pendency of
the action shall be notice to purchasers and incumbrancers of the rights and
equities of the party filing such notice, to the real property in such notice de
scribed.* The said notice may be discharged, and the effect thereof annulled,
by an entry to that effect on the margin of the record thereof by the party
tiling the same, or his attorney, in presence of the register of deeds, or by an
instrument in writing executed in the manner provided by law for the execu
tion of deeds of conveyance; and such register shall thereupon enter a minute
of the same, on the margin of the record of such notice.
Sec. 5444. Same — Notice of no personal claim.—*If, in any such ac
tion, there are defendants against whom no personal claim is made, the plaint
iff may serve upon such defendants, at the time of the service of the summons
on them, a written notice, subscribed by the plaintiff or his attorney, setting
forth the general object of the action, a description of the property affected
by it, and that no personal claim is made against such defendants. If any
such defendant on whom such notice is so served unreasonably defends the
action, he shall pay full costs to the plaintiff.
Q. S. ch. 75, § 17 (35).
Kent.
Sec. 5445. Distress for rent abolished.— That the remedy by distress
for rent is hereby abolished.
1877, ch. 140: " An act to abolish the remedy by distress for rent." Approved March 3, 1877.
At common law the remedy for rent was by action and distress. Statutes 32 Hen. VIII. ch.
37; 8 Anne, ch. 14, § 4; 11 Geo. II. ch. 19, regulated these remedies and made them more
effective. 1 Tho. Co. Litt. 458; Cro. Car. 471 ; 4 M. & S. 113; 16 Johns. 159; Six Carpenters'
Case, 8 Rep. 146; 40 E. C. L. 42.
Sec. 5446. Action by landlord. — When, in case of a lease of real prop
erty, and the failure of the tenant to pay rent, the landlord has a subsisting
right to re-enter for such failure, he may bring an action to recover possession
of the property, and such action is equivalent to a demand of the rent, and a
re-entry upon the property; but if, at any time before the expiration of six
months after possession obtained by the plaintiff on recovery in the action,
the lessee, or his successor in interest as to the whole or part of the property,
pays to the plaintiff, or brings into court, the amount of rent then in arrear,
with interest and the costs of the action, and performs the other covenants
on the part of the lessee, he may be restored to the possession, and hold the
property according to the terms of the original lease.
Sec. 5447. Action to recover rent. — Such rent may be recovered in a
civil action ; and the deed, demise, or other instrument in writing, if there is
any, showing the provisions of the lease, may be used in evidence by either
party, to prove the amount due from the defendant.
Sec. 5448. Tenant liable.— Every person in possession of land out of
which any rent is due, whether it was originally demised in fee, or for any
other estate of freehold, or for any term of years, shall be liable for the amount
or proportion of rent due from the land in his possession, although it is only
a part of what was originally demised.
Sec. 5449. Other remedy.— Nothing contained in the two preceding sec
tions shall deprive landlords of any other legal remedy for the recovery of
their rent, whether secured to them by their leases or provided by law.
Sec. 5450. When premises untenantable.— The lessees or occupants
of any building which shall, without any fault or neglect on their part, be de
stroyed, or be so injured by the elements, or any other cause, as to be unten
antable or unfit for occupancy, shall not be liable or bound to pay rent to the
lessees or owners thereof after such destruction or injury, unless otherwise
expressly provided by written agreement or covenant, and the lessees or occu
pants may thereupon quit and surrender possession of the leasehold premises,
and of the land so leased or occupied.
Sec. 5451. By joint tenants and tenants in common When two or
more persons are interested in real property, as joint tenants, or as tenants in
common, in which one or more of them have an estate of inheritance, jar for
life or years, an action may be brought by one or more of such persons against
the others, in the district court of the proper county, for a partition thereof, ac
cording to the respective rights and interests of the persons interested therein,
or a sale of such property or part of it, if it appears that a, partition cannot be
had without great prejudice to the owner.
Sec. 5452. When the state Is party — The state may be made a party
to an action for the sale or partition of real property, in which case the sum
mons and complaint shall be served upon the attorney general, who shall ap
pear on behalf of the state.
Sec. 5453. Governed by rules in civil actions.— Such action shall
bo governed by the rules and provisions applicable to civil actions, includ
ing the right of appeal, except that, when service of the summons is made
by publication, it shall be accompanied by a brief description of the prop
erty sought to be divided, and except as herein otherwise expressly provided.
Sec 5454. Summons. — The summons shall be addressed by name to all
the owners and lien-holders who are known, and generally to all persons un
known, having or claiming an interest in the property.
Sec. 5455. Complaint.— The interest of all persons in the property,
whether by way of ownership or lien, and whether such' persons are known or
unknown, shall be set forth in the complaint specifically and particularly, as
far as known to the plaintiff; and if any one or more of the parties, or the
share or quantity of interest of any of the parties, is unknown to the plaintiff,
or uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depends upon
executory devise, or the remainder is a contingent remainder, so that such
parties cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint. The
868
complaint shall also contain an allegation of the cash value of the property,
and shall be verified.
Sec. 5456. Proof of title and right.— Judgment of partition shall not
be rendered in any case until the title to the property and the rights of the
parties are established by evidence, unless upon written stipulation of the par
ties to be affected thereby.
Provided, that it shall be no defense to an action for partition in which the title of the plaintiff or plaintiffs to a certain undivided share or shares of the
property is proved or admitted; that there is a dispute or litigation undeter
mined between some of the defendants as to the title or right of such defend
ants, or any of them, in or to any undivided share or shares of such property
claimed by them or any of them, but in such case the court shall proceed to
render judgment that partition be made or to order a sale of such property as
in other cases, and shall cause the portion of such property or of the proceeds
thereof pertaining ,to the undivided share or shares in dispute to be allotted
to the defendants claiming such undivided share or shares without determin
ing their respective rights thereto, and in case of sale of said property may
order the proceeds pertaining to the undivided share or shares in dispute to
be paid into court to abide the result of any existing or subsequent litigation
between such disputing defendants as to their title and right therein.
Sec. 5457. When — Referees to make partition — The title and rights
of the parties, respectively, being duly proved or admitted, the court shall
render judgment that partition be made accordingly, and appoint tnree dis
interested and judicious citizens of the county, referees, to make partition of
the estate, and set off each share of the several persons interested, according
to their respective rights as determined in the action.
Sec. 5458. Liens — How charged.— When there is a lien on an undi
vided interest or estate of any of the parties, such lien, if partition is made, is
thenceforth a charge only on the ^hare assigned to such party; 'but such share
shall be first charged with its just proportion of the costs of the partition, in
preference to such lien.
Sec. 5459. Sale when property incumbered.— In every case, proof
shall be made of the existence, priority and amount of any liens on the prop
erty of which partition is sought, in such manner, and upon such notice to those
interested, as the court shall direct; and if said liens do not amount to the
value of the premises as admitted or proved, a sale may be ordered, by ref
erees, under the direction of the court.
Sec. 5460. Same — Not to delay sale.— The proceedings to ascertain
the amount of incumbrances, and to determine their priority, as above pro
vided, or those herein authorized to determine the rights of parties to funds
paid into court, shall not delay the sale, nor affect any other party whose
rights are not involved in such proceedings.
Sec 5461. Same — Application of proceeds — The proceeds of the
sale of the incumbered property shall be applied, under the direction of the
court, as follows :
First. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action;
Second. To pay the costs of the reference;
Third. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens, in their order of
priority, by payment of the suras due and to become due; the amount remaininff
due to be verified by affidavit at the time of payment;
Fourth. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according to
their respective shares.
Sec. 5462. Compensation by one party to another. — When it ap
pears that partition cannot be made equal between the parties, according to
their respective rights, without prejudice to the rights and interest of some of
them, the court may adjudge compensation to be made by one party to an
other for equality of partition ; but such compensation cannot be required to
be made to others by owners unknown, nor by infants, unless, in case of an in
fant, it appears that he has personal property sufficient for that purpose, and
that his interest will be promoted thereby.
Sec. 5463. Same — Where tenement cannot be divided. — When the
premises consist of a mill or other tenement which cannot be divided with
out damage to the owners, or when any specified part of the «state is of
greater value than either party's share, and cannot be divided without dam
age to the owners, the whole estate, or the part thereof so incapable of divis
ion, may be set off to any one of the parties who will accept it, he paying to
any one or more of the others such sums of money as the referees award to
make the partition just and equal; or the referees may assign the exclusive
occupancy and enjoyment of the whole, or the part, to each of the parties
alternately, for certain specified times, in proportion to their respective inter
ests.
Sec. 5464. Guardian may consent.— The general guardian of an in
fant, and the guardian entitled to the custody and management of the estate
of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his
own affairs, who is entitled to real estate held in joint tenancy, or in com
mon, or in any other manner to authorize his being made party to an action
for the partition thereof, may consent to a partition without action, and agree
upon the share to be set off to such infant'or other person entitled, and may
execute a release, in his behalf, to the owners of the shares, of the parts to
which they may be respectively entitled, upon an order from the court.
Sec. 54G5. Right of dower— In all cases of sales in partition, when it
appears that a married woman has an inchoate right of dower in any of the
property divided or sold, or that any person has a vested or contingent future
right or estate therein, the court shall ascertain and settle the proportional
value of such inchoate, contingent or vested right or estate, according to the
principles of law applicable to annuities and survivorships, and direct such
proportion of the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured or paid over, in
such manner as to protect the rights and interests of the parties.
Sec 5466. Wife may release dower— A married woman may release
such right, interest or estate to her husband, and acknowledge the same, in the
manner required by law in respect to the acknowledgment of deeds by married
women, before any officer authorized to take acknowledgment of deeds, or, if
executed out of this state, before any officer residing in the state, territory,
district or county where the acknowledgment is made, who is authorized to
take the acknowledgment of deeds, to be recorded in this state. Upon the
release, the share of the proceeds of the sale arising from her contingent.
interest shall be paid to her husband; and the release, or the payment, invest
ment, or otherwise securing of a share of the proceeds of a sale, shall be a bar
against such right, estate or claim.
Sec. 5467. Gross sum in lieu.— The persons entitled to such estate in
dower, tenancy by curtesy, or tenancy for life or j'ears, whose estate has been
sold, are entitled to receive such sums in gross as may be deemed, upon prin
ciples of law applicable to annuities, a reasonable satisfaction for such estate,
and which the person so entitled may consent to accept instead thereof, by an
instrument under seal, duly acknowledged or proved in the same manner as
deeds for the purpose of record.
Sec. 5468. Same — How ascertained. — If such consent is not given at
or before the report of sale, the court shall ascertain and determine what pro
portion of the proceeds of the sale, deducting expenses, will be a just and rea
sonable sum to be invested for the benefit of the person entitled to such estate
in dower, by the curtesy, or for life, and order the same to be deposited in
court for that purpose.
Sec. 5469. Same — How determined.— The proportions of the proceeds
of the sale to be invested, shall be ascertained and determined in the several
cases, as follows:
First. If an estate in dower is included in the order of sale, its proportion
shall be one-third of the proceeds of the sale of the property, or of the sale of
the individual share in such property, upon which the claim of dower existed;
Second. If an estate by the curtesy, or other estate for life or years, is in
cluded in the order of sale, its proportion shall be the whole proceeds of the
sale of the property, or of the sale of the individual share thereof in which
such estate may be. And in all cases the proportion of the expenses of pro
ceedings shall be deducted from the proceeds of the sale.
Sec 5470. When unknown.— If the persons entitled to such estate in
dower, by the curtesy, or for life or years, are unknown, the court shall pro
vide for the protection of their rights, in the same manner, as far as may be,
as if they were known and had appeared.
Sec. 5471. Life estates to be set off. — When a part of the property only
is ordered to be sold, if there is an estate by the curtesy, in dower, or for life
or years, in an undivided share of the property, the whole of such estate may
be set off in any part of the property not ordered to be sold.
Sec. 5472. Same — When to be sold — When the estate of a tenant in
dower, or by the curtesy, or for life or years, in the whole or any part of the
property in question, has been admitted by the parties, or ascertained by the
court, to be existing at the time of the order for sale, and the person entitled
to such estate has been made a party to the action, such estate may be first
set off out of an}' part of the property, and a sale made of such parcel, sub
ject to the prior unsold estate of such tenant therein; but if, in the judgment
of the court, a due regard to the interest of all the parties requires that such
estate be also sold, the sale may be so ordered.
Sec 5473. Same — Effect of such sale.— If a sale of the property, includ
ing such estate, is ordered, the estate and interest of every such tenant or person
passes thereby ; and the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, shall hold the property
discharged from all claims by virtue of such estate or interest, whether the same
relate to the individual share of a joint tenant, or tenant in common, or to the
whole or any part of the property sold.
Sec. 5474. By referees — Report. — When partition is made, the referees
snail divide the property, and allot the several portions thereof to the respect
ive parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, according to the re
spective rights of the parties, as determined by the court, designating the
several portions by proper landmarks, and may employ a surveyor, with the
necessary assistants, to aid them therein. They shall make report of their
proceedings, specifying the manner of executing their trust, describing the
property divided and the shares alloted to each party, with a particular descrip
tion of each share.
Sec. 5475. Confirmation of report The court may confirm or set
aside the report, and, if necessary, appoint new referees; upon the report being
confirmed, judgment shall be rendered that such partition be effectual forever,
which judgment is binding and conclusive:
First. On all the parties named therein, and their legal representatives,
who have at the time any interest in the propert}' divided, as owners in fee,
or as tenants for years, or as entitled to the reversion, remainder or inheritance
of such property, after the determination of a particular estate therein, or who,
by any contingency, may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property,
or who have an interest in an individual share thereof, as tenants for years,
for life, by the curtesy, or in dower.
Second. On all persons interested in the property who may be known, to
whom notice has been given of the application for partition, by publication;
and,
Third. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons, or either
of them.
Sec. 5476. Same — Who not affected. — But such judgment and parti
tion cannot affect tenants, or persons havitig claims as tenants, in dower, by
the curtesy, or for life, to the whole of the property which is the subject of
the partition; nor can such judgment and partition preclude any person, ex
cept such as are specified in the last section, from claiming title to the prop
erty in question, or from controverting the title of the parties between whom
the partition is made.
Sec. 5477. Rights after assignment.— While an estate is in the exclu
sive occupancy of a cotenant under such an assignment, he shall be entitled
to the same remed}7 against whoever trespasses upon, or otherwise injures the
premises, as if he held the same under a lease for the term for which they
were so assigned to him; and he and all the other tenants in common shall be
entitled to recover such other and further damages as they have sustained by
the same trespass or injury, in like manner as if the premises had been leased
by them. Joint damages recovered by such tenants in common, by force of
this or the preceding section, shall be apportioned and divided among them,
according to their respective rights, by the court in which the judgment is
recovered.
Sec. 5478. Liability after assignment.— When the whole or any specific
part of the premises,, is thus assigned, the person entitled for the time being
to the exclusive occupancy shall be liable to his cotenantsfor any injury to the
premises occasioned by his misconduct, as a tenant for years, under a common
lease without express covenants, would be liable to his landlord ; and the other
tenants in common may have their remedy therefor against him by action,
jointly or severally at their election.
Sec. 5479. When sale to be made. — If it is alleged in the complaint, and
established by evidence, that the property, or any part of it, is so situated
that partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners, the court,
except as provided in the next section, may order a sale thereof, and for that
purpose may appoint one or more referees; or when, without such allegation
and proof, referees are appointed to make partition, who report that the prop
erty, or any distinct portion thereof, is so situated that a partition thereon
cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners, and the court is satistied
that such report is correct, it may thereupon, by an order, direct the
referees to sell the property or portions so situated.
Sec. 5480. When no sale. — When there are liens on the property amount
ing to more than the value thereof as stated in the complaint, or when, after
due examination, it appears probable that the property will not sell for a sum
in cash equal to the amount of the liens thereon existing, with costs and expensos
of sale, no sale shall be made.
Sec. 5481. Notice of sale. — All sales of real property made by referees,
under this chapter, shall be made by public auction, to the highest bidder for
cash, upon notice published in the manner required for the sale of real prop
erty on execution; the notice shall state the terms of the sale, and, if the
property, or any part of it, is to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge, or
specific lien, that shall be stated in the notice.
Sec. 5482. Terms of sale.— The terms of the sale shall be made known at
the time; and if the premises consist of distinct farms or lots, they shall be
sold separately.
Sec. 5483. Who may purchase — When a party entitled to a share of
the property, or an incumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale,
becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of the pro
ceeds of the sale as belongs to him, and shall also pay over to the plaintiff or
his attorney, and take his receipt for, the costs and charges of the action.
Sec. 5484. Who may not purchase.— Neither of the referees, nor any
person for the benefit of either of them, can be interested in the purchase, nor
can a guardian of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any real
property, being the subject of the action, except for the benefit of the infant.
All sales contrary to the provisions of this section are void.
Sec. 5485. Report of sale.— After completing the sale, the referees shall
report the same to the court, with a description of the different parcels of
land sold to each purchaser, the name of the purchaser, the price paid or
Secured, the terms and conditions of the sale; the report shall be filed in the
office of the clerk of the district court of the county where the property is
situated.
Sec. 5486. Confirmation of sale. — If the sale is confirmed by the court
an order shall be entered, directing the referees to execute conveyances, which
they are authorized to do ; such order may also give directions to them re
specting the disposition of the proceeds of the sale.
Sec. 5487. Record and effect of conveyance ■ The conveyance shall
be recorded in the county where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar
against all persons interested in the property in any way, who have been
named as parties in the action, and against all such parties and persons as
were unknown, if the summons has been properly served, and against all per
sons claiming from them or either of them.
Sec. 5488. Bar liens, when —The conveyances shall also be a bar against
all persons having specific or general liens or incumbrances, by judgment, on
any undivided share or interest in the premises sold, or who have been served
with notice, as prescribed by section eighteen; and also against all persons
having specific liens of any undivided share or interest therein, who have been
made parties to the action; but no creditor having such specific lien can be
affected b}' the sale or conveyance, unless he has been made a party.
Sec 54S9. Claims of parties known.— When the proceeds of sales of
any shares or parcels, belonging to persons who have become parties to the
action, and who are known, are paid into court, the action may be continued
as between such parties, for the determination of their respective claims
thereto, which shall be ascertained and adjudged by the court; further testi
mony may be taken in court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the court;
and the court may, if necessary, require such parties to present the facts or
law in controversy, by pleadings, as in an original action.
Sec. 5490. Of unknown parties.— When there are proceeds of sale be
longing to an unknown owner, or to a person without the state who has no
legal representative within it, or when there are proceeds arising from the
safe of an estate subject to the prior estate of a tenant in dower, or by the
curtesy, or tenant for life or years, which are paid into court or deposited with
an otlicer, by order of the court, the same shall bo invested in securities, on in
terest, for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.
Sec 5491. Same — Investment ot. — When an investment of any such
proceeds is made it shall be done, except as herein otherwise provided, in the
name of the clerk of the district court of the count}' where the papers are
filed, and his successors in office, who shall hold the same for the use and ben
efit of the parties interested, subject to the order of the court.
Sec 5492. Same — Interest and securities.— The clerk by whom an
investment is made, and his successors in office, shall receive the interest and
principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same as the court may
direct; and shall iile, in his office, all securities taken, and keep an accountbook,
provided and kept for that purpose in the clerk's office, free for inspec
tion by all persons, of investments and moneys received by him thereon, and
the disposition thereof.
Sec 5493. Share of infant. — When the share of an infant is sold, the
proceeds of the sale may be paid, by the referees making the sale, to his gen
eral guardian, or to the special guardian appointed for him in the action, if
such general or special guardian, before the payment of such share into court,
has given the security required by statute.
Sec. 5494. Share of insane person — The guardian who is entitled to
the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other per
son adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real
property has been sold, may receive, in behalf of such person, his share in the
proceeds of such real property, from the referees, if the guardian, before the
money is paid into court, has executed, with sufficient sureties, an undertaking
approved by the judge of the district court, that he will faithfully discharge
the trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just account to the person
entitled, or to his legal representative.
Sec. 5495. Pees and expenses of referees The expenses of the ref
erees, including those of a surveyor and his assistants, when employed, shall
be ascertained and allowed by the court, and the amount thereof, together
with the fees allowed by law to the referees, shall be paid by the plaintiff,
and may be allowed as part of the charges.
Sec. 5496. Costs.— The costs, charges and disbursements of partition shall
be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share in the land. The amounts
to be paid by each party shall be determined Joy the court, and be specified in
the judgment. Such amounts may be docketed in like manner as judgments
requiring the payment of money are docketed, and payment thereof may be
enforced b}r executions against the property of the respective judgment debt
ors, as provided by section two hundred and sixty-four of chapter sixty-six of
the general statutes.
Sec. 5497. Forcible entry forbidden— No person shall hereafter make
an entry into lands or tenements, except in cases where an entry is given by
law ; and in such cases, not with»strong hands, nor with a multitude of people,
but only in a peaceable manner; if any person from henceforth does to the
contrary, he shall be punished by fine^ .
Sec. 5498. Jurisdiction of justice — Any justice of the peace has au
thority to inquire, as hereinafter directed, as well against those who may make
unlawful or forcible entry into lands or tenements, and detain the same, as
against those who, having lawful or peaceful entry into lands or tenements,
unlawfully and forcibly detain the same; and if it is found, upon such inquiry,
that an unlawful or forcible entry has been made, and that said lands or tene
ments are unlawfully detained by force and strong hand, or that the same,
after a lawful entry, are so held or detained unlawfully, such justice shall
cause the party complaining to have restitution thereof. ^
Sec. 5499. Same — Tenant holding over.— When any person holds
over any lands or tenements, after a sale thereof on an execution, judgment,
or on foreclosure of a mortgage by advertisement, and expiration of the time
for redemption, or after the termination of the time for which they are de
mised or let to him, -or to the person under whom he holds possession, or con
trary to the conditions or covenants of the lease or agreement under which he
holds, or after any rent becomes due, according to the terms of such lease or
agreement, or when any tenant at will holds over after the determination of
any such estate by notice to quit, in all such cases the party entitled to pos
session may make complaint thereof to an)' justice of the peace of the county,
and the justice shall proceed to hear, try and determine the same, in the same
manner as in other cases hereinbefore provided for; but he shall impose no
fine upon such tenants, or persons holding over.
Sec. 5500. Upon complaint summons issue. — When any complaint
is made in writing, to any justice of the peace, of any such unlawful or forci
ble entry, or unlawful detainer, said justice shall issue a summons, directed to
the sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to summon the
person against whom such complaint is made, to appear before the said jus
tice, on a day in such summons named, which shall not be less than six nor
more than ten days from the day of issuing such summons.
Sec. 5501. Service Of summons.— Such summons shall be served upon
the person against whom the same is issued, by delivering a certified copy
thereof to him, at least three days before the return-day thereof; and the of
ficer serving the same shall make a special return of the time and manner of
serving said summons.
Sec. 5502. Same — Absent defendant.— If, at the time of making said
complaint, it appeal's that the person against whom said complaint is made is
absent from the county, the justice before whom the same is made shall issue
his summons as hereinbefore provided, and make the same returnable not less
than six, nor more than ten days from the time of issuing the same; and such
summons may be served by leaving a true and attested copy thereof at the
last and usual place of such person's abode, not less than six days before the
return-day thereof; such copy shall be left with some member of the family,
or some person residing at such place, of suitable age and discretion, to whom
the contents thereof shall be explained by the officer; and the said officer
shall make a special return of the time and manner of serving said summons;
and the action shall thereafter proceed as though a personal service were made
of such summons. * And if the officer cannot find in his county said person
against whom such complaint is made and said person has no last and usual
place of abode therein, then such summons may be served by leaving a true
and certified copy thereof upon the premises described in such complaint not
less than six days before the return-day thereof; such copy may be left with
any person using,- occupying or in charge of said premises or any part thereof,
and such action shall thereupon proceed as though a personal service were
made of said summons.
Sec 5503. Upon return of summons.— After the return of said sum
mons, and at the time and place appointed therein, the said justice shall pro
ceed to hear and determine said complaint '.provided, that if either party calls
for a trial by jury, the said justice shall issue a venire, in the same manner,
and upon the same terms, as in other cases in justices' courts; and such jury
shall be sworn as in other cases.
Sec 5504. Adjournment of trial.— The justice of the peace may at his
discretion adjourn any trial under this chapter not exceeding six days; but in
all cases mentioned in section eleven of this chapter, * except a case brought
upon a written lease, signed and acknowledged by both parties thereto,* when
the defendant, his agent or attorney, makes oath that he cannot safely proceed
to trial, for the want of some material witness, naming him, that he has made
clue exertion to obtain said witness, and believes if such an adjournment is
allowed he will be able to procure the attendance of said witness, or his dep
osition, in season to produce the same upon such trial; and if such person
will give bond, with one or more sufficient sureties, conditioned to pay the said
complainant for all rent which may accrue during the pendency of such ac
tion, and all costs and damages consequent upon such adjournment, the justice
shall adjourn said cause for such reasonable time as appears necessary, not
exceeding three months; + but no such adjournment shall be allowed where
the action is brought upon a written lease executed as aforesaid.
Sec. 5505. Depositions. — The deposition of any witness whose testimony
is considered necessary by either party may be taken, for the same reason, in
the same manner, and with the same effect, as is provided by law for taking
of depositions to be used in justices' courts.
Sec 5500. When jury cannot agree.— If the jury cannot agree upon a
verdict, the justice may discharge them, and issue a venire, returnable forth
with, or at some other time agreed upon by the parties, or fixed by the jus
tice, for the purpose of impannelling a new jury.
Sec. 5507. When defendant is found guilty — If, upon the trial of
any complaint under this chapter, the justice or jury shall find that the de
fendant or defendants, or either of them, are guilty of the allegations in the
complaint, the said justice shall thereupon enter judgment for the complainant
to have restitution of the premises, and shall impose such fine, not exceeding
one hundred dollars, as he may deem just, and shall tax the costs for the com
plainant, and may issue execution in favor of said complainant, for such costs,
and shall also award and issue a writ of restitution; but if the said justice or
the jury find that the person complained of is not guilty, the justice shall tax
the costs against the complainant, and issue execution therefor.
Sec. 550S. When to issue. — No restitution shall be made under the pro
visions of this chapter of any lands or tenements of which the party com
plained of or his ancestors, or those under whom he holds the premises, have
been in the quiet possession for three years next before the entering of the
complaint, *after the determination of the leasehold estate that he may have
had therein,* nor shall a writ of restitution issue in any case for twenty-four
hours after judgment, if the party against whom judgment is rendered, or his
attorney, states to the justice that he intends to take an appeal. Provided,
that if said action is brought upon a written lease, executed by both parties
thereto, against a tenant holding over, after the expiration of said lease, resti
tution of said premises shall be made forthwith, and if the party against whom
judgment is rendered, in such case, gives notice to the justice that he intends
to take an appeal, the justice shall thereupon, as a condition to the issuance of
the writ of restitution, require of the complainant a bond, with two sufficient
sureties, conditioned that the complainant will pay all costs and damages, if
on said appeal said judgment of restitution shall be reversed or a new trial
ordered; and upon the tiling of such bond the writ of restitution shall issue in
the same manner as if no notice of appeal had been given.
" unless
his estate therein is ended," and inserted matter between * *, and added the proviso. 29 M. 432.
Appeal.
Sec. 5509. When and how. — If either part feels aggrieved at the ver
dict of the jury, or decision of the justice, he may appeal within ten days,
as in other cases tried before justices of the peace, except that * in all cases
where the party appealing remains in possession of the property,* his bond
shall be, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by said justice,
cond^bned to pay all costs of such appeal, and abide the order the court may
make therein, and pay all rent and otiier damages justly accruing to the party
who is excluded from possession of the property during the pendency of such
appeal.
Sec 5510. Effect Of.— Upon the taking of such appeal, all further pro
ceedings in the case shall be stayed,* except in case of actions brought upon
a written lease, for the recovery of possession of property, after the expira
tion of the term thereof, in which case the writ of restitution shall issue the
same as if no appeal had been taken, upon the execution and filing of a bond
bj' the complainant as hereinbefore provided,* and the appellate court shall
thereafter issue all needful writs and processes to carry out the provisions of
this chapter, according to the true intent and meaning thereof.
Sec. 5511. Same — Return of restitution. — If a writ of restitution has
been issued previous to the taking of an appeal, as provided in this chapter,
the justice shall forthwith give the appellant a certificate of the allowance of
such appeal,* except in case where judgment has been entered in an action
brought upon a written lease to recover possession of the property therein de
scribed, after the expiration of such lease.* Upon the service of such certifi
cate upon the officer having such writ of restitution the said officer shall
forthwith cease all further proceedings by virtue of such writ, except in the
cases as hereinbefore provided; and, if such writ has not been completely ex
ecuted the defendant shall remain in the possession of the premises until the
appeal is determined,! except in case where the action is brought upon a writ
ten lease to recover possession after the expiration of the term in said lease
specified.
Sec 5512. Want of form disregarded.— In all cases of appeal under
the provisions of this chapter, the appellate court shall not dismiss or quash
the proceedings for want of form only, provided they have been conducted
substantially according to the provisions of this chapter.
Sec 5513. Amendments. — Amendments maybe allowed by the court,
at any time before final judgment, upon such terras as to the court appear
just, in the same cases and manner, and to the same extent, as in civil actions.
Sec 5514. Answer.— All matters in excuse, justification or avoidance of
the allegations in the complaint, shall be set up in the answer.
Sec 5515. Compelling return from justice. — The appellate court has
power to compel the justice, by attachment, to make or amend any return
which is withheld, or insufficiently or improperly made.
Sec 5516. Schedule of. — The following or equivalent forms shall be used
in proceedings under this chapter, to wit:
FORM OF SUMMONS.
State of Minnesota, ) gg
County of . j
The State of Minnesota, To the Sheriff or any Constable of the County afore
said:
Whereas, , of , hath exhibited unto a justice of the peace, in
and for said county aforesaid, a complaint against -—■ of , for that
the said ■ , on the day of , at (here insert the substance
of the complaint with legal certainty) ; therefore you are hereby co'mmanded
to summon the said , if to be found in the said county, to appear
before me at , on day of , at of the clock in the noon,
then and there to make answer to, and defend against the complaint afore
said, and further to be dealt with according to law; and make due return to
me of this summons, with your doings thereon.
Dated at , this day of , in the year one thousand, eight hun
dred and . J. P., Justice of the Peace.
FORM OF WRIT OF RESTITUTION.
State of Minnesota, ) gg
County of . J
The State of Minnesota, To the Sheriff or any Constable of the County afore
said:
Whereas, , of , at the court of inquiry of an unlawful or forci
ble entry and unlawful detainer, held at in the county aforesaid, on the
day of , one thousand eight hundred and , before , a
justice of the peace in and for the county aforesaid, by the consideration of
the court, recovered judgment against , of , to have restitution
of, (here describe the premises as in the complaint); therefore you are
hereby commanded, that, taking with you the force of the county, if neces
sary, you cause the said to be immediately removed from the afore
said premises, and the said • to have peaceable restitution of the
same; you are also hereby commanded, that of the goods and chattels of the
said , within said county, you cause to be levied, and, the same being
disposed of according to law, to be paid to the said , the sum of
, being the cost taxed against said , for the said , at the court
aforesaid, together with twenty-live cents for this writ; and thereof, together
with this writ, make due return, within thirty days from the date hereof, ac
cording to law.
Dated at , the day of , one thousand eight hundred and .
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
FORM OF VERDICT.
At a court of inquiry, held at , on the day of , one thousand
eight hundred and , before , a justice of the peace in and for the
county of , , complainant, against ■ , respondent, the jury
find the facts alleged in the said complaint, are true, that the said
is guilty thereof, and the said ought to have restitution of the prem
ises therein described, without delay; (or, in case the jury do not find the alle
gation of complaint proved, the jury find that the facts alleged in the same
complaint are not proved, and that the said is not guilty thereof).
C. D., Foreman.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Sec. 5517. Action for possession or injury.— Any person settled upon
any of the public lands belonging to the United States, on which settlement
is not expressly prohibited by congress or some department of the general
government, may maintain an action for injuries done to the possession thereof,
or to recover the possession thereof.
Sec. 5518. When action will not lie.— A neglect to occupy or culti
vate such claim, for the period of six months, shall be considered such an
abandonment as to preclude the claimant from maintaining either of the afore
said actions.
Sec. 5519. Claim defined.— On the trial of any such cause, the posses
sion or possessory right of the plaintiff shall be considered as extending to the
boundaries embraced by the claim of such plaintiff, so as to enable him to
have and maintain either of the aforesaid actions, without being compelled to
prove a natural inclosure: provided, that such claim shall not exceed in any
case one hundred and sixty acres; and the same may be located in two differ
ent parcels, to suit the convenience of the holder.
Sec. 5520. Claim to be marked — Actual settler.— Every such claim,
to entitle the holder to maintain either of the aforesaid actions, shall be
marked out so that the boundaries thereof may be easily traced, and the ex
tent of such claim easily known; and no person shall be entitled to maintain
either of said actions for possession of, or any injury done to, any claim, un
less he is an actual settler, or causes the land to be constantly occupied, and
has improvements, made thereon, to the amount of fifty dollars.
Sec. 5521. Causes of action.— Every boat or vessel used in navigating
the waters of this state is liable:
First. For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent or consignee
thereof, on account of supplies furnished for the use of such boat or vessel, on
account of work done or services rendered on board or for the benefit of such
boat or vessel, or on account of labor done or materials furnished by mechan
ics, tradesmen or others, in and for building, repairing, fitting out, furnishing
or equipping the same;
Second. For all sums due for wharfage or anchorage of such boat or vessel
within this state;
Third. For all demands or damages accruing from the non-performance
or mal-perforraance of any contract of affreightment, or any contract touch
ing the transportation of persons or property, entered into by the master,
owner, agent or consignee of the boat or vessel on which such contract is to
be performed ; and,
Fourth. For all injuries done to persons or property by such boat or vessel :
provided, however, that in no case shall any boat or vessel be liable, as afore
said, for any debt contracted on account of work done or services rendered
on board or for the benefit of such boat or vessel, until the contract therefor
is fully and duty performed on the part of the person engaging to perform
the same.
Sec. 5522. "When to be commenced.—- All actions against a boat or
vessel, under the provisions of this chapter, shall be commenced within one
year after the cause of action accrues.
Sec. 5523. Complaint. — Whoever wishes to institute an action against a
boat or vessel shall file his complaint against such boat or vessel by name,
with the clerk of the district court of the county in which such boat or vessel
may be.
Sec 5524. Same — Statements Of.— The complaint shall set forth the
plaintiff's demand in all its particulars, and on whose account the same ac
crued; it shall be verified by the affidavit of the plaintiff or some credible
person for him.
Sec 5525. Appearance. — The master, owner, agent or consignee of the
boat or vessel may appear on behalf of such boat or vessel, and answer the
complaint.
Sec. 5526. Issuance.— Whenever any such complaint is filed in the office
of the clerk of the district court, he shall issue a warrant, returnable in twenty
days, directing and authorizing the sheriff to seize the boat or vessel mentioned
in the complaint, and detain the same in his custody, together with its tackle,
apparel and furniture, until discharged from such custody by due course of
law.
Sec 5527. Return.— Upon the return of the warrant issued by virtue of
the preceding section, proceedings shall be had in the district court against
the boat or vessel seized, in the same manner as if the action had been insti
tuted against the person on whose account the demand accrued.
Sec. 552S. Discharge of warrant. —-If the master, owner, agent or con
signee, before final judgment, gives bond to the plaintiff, with sufficient sureties
to be approved by the court, or the judge or clerk thereof in vacation, condi
tioned to satisfy the amount which shall be ad judged to be owing and due to
the plaintiff, in the determination of the action, together with all costs accru
ing, such boat or vessel, with the tackle, apparel and furniture belonging
thereto, shall be discharged from further detention by the sheriff.
Sec. 5529. Against the boat. — If judgment is rendered against any boat
or vessel, in favor of the plaintiff, the court shall make an order, directed to
the sheriff, commanding him to sell such boat or vessel, together with its
tackle, apparel and furniture, to satisfy the judgment, and all costs that may
have accrued in the cause, which order shall be executed and returned in the
same manner as an execution.
Sec 5530. Against obligors in bond. — If a bond has been entered into
according to the seventh section of this chapter, and judgment rendered in
favor of the plaintiff, execution shall be issued for the amount of the judg
ment and costs, in favor of the plaintiff, against the principal and sureties in
such bond.
Sec 5531. Summoned to show cause.— Whenever judgment is rendered
against any boat or vessel, in favor of the plaintiff, and such boat or vessel has
been discharged from the custody of the sheriff prior to the rendition of such
judgment, by the giving of bonds or otherwise, or when, from any cause what
ever, said judgment, or any part thereof, remains unpaid for the period of
sixty days, the masters and owners thereof, either or both — and in case the
owner is a foreign corporation, then the officers, members, or stockholders of
such corporation, or either or any of them — may be summoned, as is herein
after provided, to show cause why he or the}' shall not be bound by the judg
ment in the same manner as if said action had been originally commenced
and prosecuted to judgment against them.
Sec 5532. Form of summons.— The summons provided for in the last Section shall be subscribed by the judgment creditor, his representative or at
torney, describe the judgment, and require the party summoned to show cause,
within twenty days after the service of the summons, and may be served in
the same manner that a summons is served in civil actions.
Sec 5533. Affidavit accompany summons.— The summons shall be
accompanied by an affidavit of the person subscribing it, that the judgment
has not been paid or satisfied, to his knowledge, information or belief, and
shall specify the amount due thereon.
Sec. 5534. Answer.— The party summoned may answer, denying the
judgment, or setting up any defence that may have arisen subsequent to the
rendition of said judgment, and, in addition thereto, that he was not, at
the time said cause of action arose against said boat or vessel, the master,
owner or part-owner thereof, or that he was not, at the time said cause of ac
tion arose against said boat or vessel, or at any time since, an officer, member
or stockholder of any foreign corporation which was the owner of such boat
or vessel at the time said cause of action arose, but no other defence what
ever.
Sec 5535. Pleadings and trial. — The party issuing the summons may
demur or reply to the answer, and the party summoned may demur to the re
ply, and the issue may be tried, and judgment and costs given, and enforced
by execution, in the same manner as in civil actions.
Sec. 5536. Jurisdiction. — Justices of the peace, within their respective
counties, have cognizance of all cases arising under this chapter, when the de
mand claimed does not exceed the sum of one hundred dollars.
Sec. 5537. How governed.— In all their proceedings, justices of the peace
shall conform to the provisions of law governing justices' courts, and as near
as may be to the provisions of this chapter, as they apply in the district court.
Sec 553S. Warrant — Hearing — Release.— Every warrant issued by
a justice of the peace, under this chapter, shall be returnable forthwith; and,
upon the return thereof, the justice shall hear and determine the action in a
summary manner: provided, that if the master, owner, agent or consignee
executes a bond to the plaintiff, with sufficient surety, to be approved by the
justice, conditioned that he will satisfy the amount which may be adjudged
to be owing and due to the plaintiff on the determination of the action, to
gether with costs, then the boat, vessel, tackle, apparel and furniture seized
by such warrant shall be discharged from custod}*.
Sec 5539. Service and return. — All warrants issued under the provis
ions of this chapter shall be served and returned as writs of attachment are
served and returned.
Sec 5540. Continuance. — Upon good and sufficient cause shown by the
master, owner, agent or consignee of any boat or vessel sold under this chap
ter, the court or justice of the peace ma}r grant a continuance of the cause;
but no such continuance shall operate as a discharge of such boat or vessel
from the custody of the sheriff or constable.
Sec 5541. Same. — No continuance of a cause, under this chapter, shall be
granted to the plaintiff.
Sec. 5542. Order of sale. — Whenever an order of sale is made for the
sale of a boat or vessel, with its tackle, apparel and furniture, the sheriff or
constable has power to sell such part thereof, or such interest therein, as shall
be necessary to satisfy the amount of judgment rendered in favor of the
plaintiff, and all the costs that have accrued.
Sec. 5543. WHO may appeal.— In all cases arising nnder this chapter,
if judgment is rendered in favor of the plaintiff, the master, the owner, agent
or consignee of the boat or vessel, or other person interested, may appeal from
the judgment, as in other cases.
Sec. 5544. Security to all persons severaUy.— The official bond or
other security of a public officer to the state, or any municipal body or cor
poration, whether with or without sureties, is to be construed as security to
all persons severally, for the official delinquencies against which it is intended
to provide, as well as to the state, body or corporation designated therein :
provided, that when no other provision is made by law, it shall run to the
state of Minnesota.
Sec. 5545. Action on. — "When a public officer, by official misconduct or
neglect, forfeits his official bond, or renders his sureties liable upon an official
Security, any person injured thereby, or who is by law entitled to the benefit
of the security, may bring an action thereon, in his own name, against the
officer and his sureties, to recover the amount to which he is entitled by reason
of the delinquency.
Sec. 5546. For each delinquency.— A judgment in favor of a party for
one delinquency does not preclude the same or another party from an action
on the same security for another delinquency.
Sec. 5547. Leave to bring.— Before an action can be brought by a plaint
iff, other than the state or body politic named in the bond, leave shall be ob
tained of the district court, or a judge thereof, within the county where the
action is triable, by the production of a copy of the bond, and an affidavit
showing the delinquency; and if the delinquency is such that, if established
on the trial, it would entitle the party applying to recover in the action, leave
shall be granted.
Sec. 5548. Execution.— Upon the execution issued on a judgment re
covered, upon the official security of a public officer, against him and a surety,
there shall be endorsed a direction to the officer to whom the execution is de
livered, to collect the same out of the property of the principal, if sufficient
can be found, and, if not, then to collect it out of the property of the surety.
Sec. 5549. Actions for — By whom.— Actions for fines and forfeitures
may be prosecuted by the officers or persons to whom they are by law given,
or who, by special provisions of law, are authorized to recover them ; and,
whether prosecuted by public officers or by private persons, are governed by
the same rules as other civil actions, except as herein otherwise prescribed.
Sec. 5550. Disposal of— Action by state Fines and forfeitures not
specially granted or appropriated by law shall be paid into the treasury of
the county where the same are incurred ; and whenever any property, real or
personal, is forfeited to the state, or to any officer for its use, an action for
the recovery of such 'property, alleging the grounds of the forfeiture, may
be brought, by the proper officer, in the district court of any county where such
property may be.
"treasury of the state"
and inserted " treasury of the county where the same are incurred."
Sec. 5551. Prosecutions for. — All fines and forfeitures imposed as a pun
ishment for any offence, or for the violation, or neglect of any duty imposed
by statute, may be prosecuted for and recovered by indictment in the district
court; or, when the amount or value thereof does not exceed one hundred
dollars, the same may be prosecuted for by complaint before a justice of
the peace, who shall have jurisdiction therefor concurrently with the district
court ; and in all cases of the imposition of a fine pursuant to statute, as
punishment for any offence, the offender may be committed till the same is
paid, or he is otherwise discharged according to law.
Sec. 5552. Action for. — When an action is brought for a penalty which
is limited by law not to exceed a certain amount, the action may be brought
for that amount, and upon trial, the amount recovered shall be determined in
proportion to the offence.
Sec. 5553. Collusive recovery.—A recovery of a judgment for a penalty
or forfeiture, by collusion between the parties, with intent to save the defend
ant from the consequences contemplated by law, in case where the penalty
or forfeiture is given wholly or partly to the prosecutor, does not prevent the
recovery of the same by another person.
Sec. 5554. All corporations and associations.— This chapter embraces
all corporations, including in such designation all associations having any
corporate rights, whether created by special acts or under general laws.
Sec. 5555. Foreign corporations. — A foreign corporation may prose
cute in the courts of this state, in the same manner as corporations created
under the laws thereof.
Sec 5556. Limitation on foreign corporations.— A foreign corpora
tion cannot maintain an action in this state upon an obligation or liability
arising out of, or in consideration of, an act which is contrary to the law or
policy of the state, or which is thereby forbidden in respect to corporations
or associations therein whose general business is similar to that of such for
eign corporation.
Sec. 5557. Powers of district court.— The district court may compel
the officers of any corporation —
First. To account for their official conduct in the management and dispo
sition of the funds and property committed to their charge;
Second. May decree and compel payment by them, to the corporation
which they represent, and to its creditors, of all sums of money, and of the
value of all property, which they have acquired to themselves, or transferred
to others, or have lost or wasted by any violation of their duties as such
officers;
Third. May suspend any such trustee or other officer from exercising his
office, whenever it appears that he has abused his trust;
Fourth. May remove any trustee or officer from his office, upon proof or
conviction of gross misconduct;
Fifth. May direct, if necessary, a new election to be held, by the bod}' or
board duly authorized for that purpose, to supply any vacancy created by such
removal;
Sixth. May set aside all alienations of property made by the trustees or
other officers of any corporation, contrary to the provisions of law, or for
purposes foreign to the lawful business and objects of such corporation, in
cases where the person receiving such alienation knew the purpose for which
the same was made; and
Seventh. May restrain and prevent an3rsuch alienation, in cases where it is
threatened, or there is good reason to apprehend that it is intended.
Sec. 5558. Same.— Whenever any visitorial powers over any corporation
are vested by statute in any corporate body or public officer, the provisions of
the preceding section shall not be construed to impair the powers so vested.
Sec 5559. Same — Injunction. — Upon a complaint filed under the di
rection of the attorney general in any district court, such court has power to
restrain, by injunction, any corporation from assuming or exercising any fran
chise, liberty or privilege, or transacting any business not authorized by the
act by or under which such corporation was created, and to restrain any in
dividuals from exercising any corporate rights, privileges or franchises not
granted to them by law.
Sec 5560. Same.— Such injunction may be issued before the coming in
of the answer, upon satisfactory proof that the defendant complained of has
usurped, exercised or claimed any franchise, privilege, liberty, or corporate
right not granted to it.
Sec 5561. Forfeiture and dissolution. — Whenever any railroad com
pany doing business in this state shall charge, demand or receive unreason
able rates for the transportation of freight or passengers over any portion of
its line of railroad, or violate any of the provisions of its act or acts of incor
poration, or any other law binding upon such corporation, or if * any incorpo
rated company remain insolvent for one year, or for one year neglects or
refuses to discharge its notes or other evidence of debt, or for one year sus
pends the lawful business of such corporation, such company or corporation
shall be deemed to have forfeited the rights, privileges and franchises granted
by any act or acts of incorporation, or acquired under the laws of this state,
and shall be adjudged to be dissolved;* and it is hereby made the duty of the
attorney general to make complaint in the district court in any county in
which such company or corporation may bo doing business, against any com
pany or corporation who shall in any manner violate any of the provisions of
this section, or commit any of the acts herein recited; and upon the trial in
said court, or any court to which the same may be transferred, if it shall be
established, by the finding of the court, or the verdict of the jury, that any of
the acts herein recited have been committed by such corporation or company,
the said court shall render judgment of forfeiture and the dissolution of such
corporation, and may appoint receivers as in other cases provided for in this
act. Upon the trial of any action commenced against any railroad company
or corporation for charging, demanding or receiving unreasonable rates for
the transportation of freights or passengers, under the provisions of this sec
tion, the court or jury before whom the same is tried shall find specially
whether such company or corporation has charged, demanded or received un
reasonable rates for such transportation.
Sec 5562. How commenced.— Actions may be commenced against cor
porations, whether created under the laws of this state, or an}' other state or
country, except as otherwise expressly provided, in the same manner as other
civil actions; and where service of summons is made according to the statute,
the plaintiff may proceed thereupon in the same manner as in civil actions
against natural persons.
Sec. 5563. By creditor.— Whenever any creditor of a corporation seeks
to charge the directors, trustees, or other superintending officers of such cor
poration, or the stockholders thereof, on account of any liability created by
law, be may file his complaint for that purpose, in any district court which
possesses jurisdiction to enforce such liability.
Sec 5564. Notice to creditors.— Whenever any action is brought against
any corporation, its directors or other superintending officers, or stockholders,
according to the provisions of this chapter, the court, whenever it appears
necessary or proper, may order notice to be published, in such manner as it
shall direct, requiring all the creditors of such corporation to exhibit their
claims and become parties to the action, within a reasonable time, not less
than six months from the first publication of such order, and, in default
thereof, to be precluded from all benefit of the judgment which shall be ren
dered in such action, and from any distribution which shall be made under
such judgment.
Sec 5565. Account — Receiver The court shall proceed thereon as
in other cases, and, when necessary, shall cause an account to be taken of the
property and debts due to and from such corporation, and shall appoint one
or more receivers.
Sec 5566. When corporation proved insolvent If, on the coming
in of the answer, or upon the taking of any such account, it appears that such
corporation is insolvent, and that it has no property or effects to satisfy such
creditors, the court may proceed, without appointing any receiver, to ascertain
the respective liabilities of such directors and stockholders, and enforce the
same by its judgment as in other cases.
Sec. 5567. Distribution of corporate assets.— Upon a final judgment
in any such action to restrain a corporation, or against directors or stockhold
ers, the court shall cause a just and fair distribution of the property of such
corporation, and of the proceeds thereof, to be made among its creditors.
Sec 55S8. Same. — Upon a final judgment on any such complaint, the
court shall cause a just and fair distribution of the property of all such corpo
rations, and of the proceeds thereof,* not distributed prior to the passage of
this act, to be made in the following manner: After the payment of costs,
debts due the United States, the state of Minnesota, all taxes or assignments
levied and unpaid, expenses of the receivership and executing the trust, the
receiver shall pay in full, if sufficient there remains for that purpose, the claims
duly proven of all servants, clerks, or laborers for personal services or wages
owing from such corporation, for services performed for the three months pre
ceding the appointment of a receiver of such corporation as provided in sec
tion nine (9) and the balance of said estate shall then be distributed among
the general creditors of such corporation under the direction of the court.
" to be made among the fair and honest creditors of such corporation in proportion to their
debts respectively."
Sec 55G9. Same — Stock-subscriptions.— In all cases in which the di
rectors or other officers of a corporation, or the stockholders thereof, are made
parties to an action in which a judgment is rendered, if the property of such
corporation is insufficient to discharge its debts, the court shall proceed to
compel each stockholder to pay in the amount due and remaining unpaid on
the shares of stock held by him or so much thereof as is necessary to satisfy
the debts of the company.
Sec. 5570. Same— Against officers and stockholders.— If the debts
of the company remain unsatisfied, the court shall proceed to ascertain the
respective liabilities of the directors or other officers, and of the stockholders,
and to adjudge the amount payable by each, and enforce the judgment as in
other cases.
Sec. 5571. Supplemental complaint by creditor.— If any creditor of .
a corporation desires to make such directors or stockholders parties to the ac
tion, after a judgment therein against the corporation, he ma}7 do so, on tiling
a supplemental complaint against them, founded upon such judgment; and if
such decree was rendered in a proceeding instituted by the attorney general,
such creditor may, on his application, be made complainant therein, and may,
in like manner, make the directors and stockholders sought to be charged, de
fendants in such action.
Sec 5572. Sequestration — Receiver.— Whenever a judgment is ob
tained against any corporation incorporated under the laws of this state, and
an execution issued thereon is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, upon
the complaint of the person obtaining such judgment, or his representatives,
the district court within the proper county may sequestrate the stock, prop
erty, things in action and effects of such corporation, and appoint a receiver
of the same.
Sec. 5573. Injunction against. — Whenever any corporation having
banking powers, or the power to make loans on pledges or deposits, or au
thorized by law to make insurances, becomes insolvent, or unable to pay its
debts, or neglects or refuses to pay its notes or evidences of debt on demand,
or violates any of the provisions of its act or acts of incorporation, or of any
other law binding on such corporation, the district court may, by injunction,
restrain such corporation and its officers from exercising any of its corporate
rights, privileges and franchises, and from collecting or receiving any debts
or demands, and from paying out, or in any way transferring or delivering,
to any person, any of the moneys, property or effects of such corporation,
until such court shall otherwise order.
Sec 5574. Forfeiture of charter. — Such injunction may be issued on
the complaint of the attorney general, in behalf of the state, or on the com
plaint of any creditor or stockholder of such corporation. Whenever such
injunction issues against any bank for any violation of its charter, on the
complaint of any creditor, the court shall proceed to final judgment in such
case, and adjudge a forfeiture, if the proof is sufficient, notwithstanding such
creditor may settle with such corporation, and relinquish his claim against
said corporation; and in all such cases, the attorney general, or any creditor,
shall have the right to appear and prosecute such action ; and such action
shall not be discontinued, if either of them so appear and prosecute the same.
Sec 5575. Appointment Of receiver.—- The court, in any stage of the
proceedings, may appoint one or more receivers to take charge of the prop
erty and effects of such corporation, and to collect, sue for and recover the
debts and demands that are due, and the property that belongs to such corpo
ration, who shall in all respects be subject to the control of the court.
Sec. 5576. Suit by creditor.— If such application is made by a creditor
of any corporation whose directors or stockholders are made liable by law for
the payment of such debts, in any event or contingency, such debtors or stock
holders, or any of them, may be made parties to the action, either at the time
of filing the complaint, or in any subsequent stage of the proceedings, when
ever it becomes necessary to enforce such liability.
Sec. 5577. What causes of action survive A cause of action arising
out of an injury to the person dies with the person of either party, except as
provided in the next- section. All other causes of action by one against an
other, whether arising on contract or not, survive to the personal represent
atives of the former, and against the personal representatives of the latter.
Sec. 5578. Death by wrongful act.— When death is caused by the /
wrongful act or omission of any party or corporation, the personal represent
atives of the deceased may maintain an action, if he might have maintained
an action had he lived, for an injury caused by the same act or omission,* by—
which the death was caused; but the action shall be commenced within two f
years after the act or omission by which the death was caused. The damages
thereon cannot exceed ten thousand dollars, and the amount recovered is to
be for the exclusive benefit of the widow and next of kin, to be distributed
to them in the same proportions as the personal property of the deceased
person.
" by which death was caused," and increased the amount from five to ten thousand dollars.
8 M. 97; 12 M. 530; 32 M. 519; 30 M. 386; 30 M. 463; 28 M. 104; 28 M. 371; 26 M. 500; 35 M. 194.
Sec 5579. Foreign administrator or executor Any administrator
or executor, duly appointed in any other state or country, may commence
and prosecute any action in any court of this state, in his capacity of executor
or administrator, in like manner and under like restrictions as a resident may
do: provided, that before commencing any action, an authenticated copy of
his appointment as such executor or administrator is filed in the probate court
of the county in which such action is to be commenced.
Sec 5580. Executor de son tort — No person is liable to an action, as
executor of his own wrong, for having taken, received or interfered with the
property of a deceased person; but is responsible to the executor, as general
or special administrator of such deceased person, for the value of all property
so taken or received, and for all damages caused by his acts to the estate of
the deceased.
Sec 5581. When judgment not evidence of assets "When a judg
ment is taken against an administrator or executor, upon failure to answer,
it is not to be deemed evidence of assets in his hands, unless it appears that
the complaint alleged assets, and was personally served on him.
Sec. 5582. When judgment not a lien.— The real property which be
longed to a deceased person is not bound or in any way affected by a judg
ment against his executors or administrators, nor liable to be sold by virtue
of an execution issued upon such judgment.
Q. S. ch. 77, § 4.
Liability of Next of Kin.
Sec 5583. For debts of deceased. — The next of kin of a deceased per
son are liable to an action by a creditor of the estate, to recover the distribu
tive shares received out of such estate, or so much thereof as may be necessary
to satisfy his debt; the action may be against all the next of kin jointly, or
against any one or more of them.
Sec 55S4. Amount — Apportionment.— In such action, the plaintiff
may recover the value of all the assets received by all the defendants in the
action, if necessary to satisfy his demand ; and the amount of the recovery
shall be apportioned among the defendants, in proportion to the value of the
assets received by each ; and no allowance or deduction can be made from
such amount, on account of there being other relatives to whom assets have
also been delivered.
Sec. 55S5. Contribution.— Any one of the next of kin against whom a
recovery is had, pursuant to the last section, may maintain an action against
all the other relatives of the testator to whom any such assets have been paid,
jointly, or any one or more of them, for a just and equal contribution, and
may recover of each defendant such amount as bears the same proportion to
the whole sum collected of the plaintiif, as the value of the assets delivered to
such defendant bears to the value of all the assets delivered to all the relations
of the deceased.
Sec 55SG. For debts of testator. — Legatees are liable to an action by
a creditor of the testator, to recover the value of a legacy received by them.
The action may be brought against all, or any one or more of the legatees.
In such action, the plaintiff cannot recover unless he shows:
First. That no assets were delivered, by the executor or administrator of
the deceased, to his heirs or next of kin; or,
Second. That the value of such assets has been recovered by some other
creditor; or,
Third. That such assets are not sufficient to satisfy the demands of the
plaintiff; and in the last case he can recover only the deficiency.
The whole amount which the plaintiff can recover shall be apportioned
among all the legatees of the testator, in proportion to the amount of their
legacies respectively, and his proportion can only be recovered of each leg
atee.
Sec 55S7. Apportionment— If an action is brought against several
next of kin jointly, or against several legatees jointly, for assets delivered to
them, and a recovery had against them, the costs of such action shall be ap
portioned among the several defendants, in proportion to the amount of the
damages recovered against each of them.
Sec 55S8. Judgment — Discharge. — In case of a judgment against
several next of kin of a testator, or against several legatees, the payment
or satisfaction of the amount recovered against any one of the defendants,
discharges such defendant, and exonerates him and his property from the
judgment.
Sec. 5589. For debts of ancestor. — Heirs and devisees are liable to an
action by a creditor of a deceased person, to recover the debt, to the extent
of. the value of any real property inherited by, or devised to them; if such
action is against the heirs, all the heirs who are liable shall be made parties to
the action.
Sec. 5590. When heirs not liable.— But the heirs are not liable for
the debt, unless it appears that the personal assets of the deceased were not
sufficient to discharge it, or that, after due proceedings before the probate
court, the creditor is unable to collect the debt from the personal representa
tives of the deceased, or from his next of kin, or legatee; if the personal assets
were sufficient to pay a part of the debt, or in case a part thereof has been
collected, as mentioned in the last section, the heirs of such deceased person
are liable for the residue.
Sec. 5591. Limitation. — But the last section does not affect the liability
of heirs for a debt of their ancestors, where such debt was by his will expressly
charged exclusively on the real property descended to such heirs, or where
such debt is by the will expressly directed to bo paid out of the real property
descended, before resorting to the personal property.
Sec. 5592. Lien — Levy.— If it appears that the real property so de
scended was not 'alienated by the heir at the time of the commencement of
the action, or if the heir confesses the claims, and shows what real property
has descended to him, the court shall order that the debt of the plaintitf, or
the proportion thereof which he is entitled to recover, be levied of the real
property so descended, and not otherwise; and every judgment rendered in
such action has preference, as a lien on the real property so descended, to
any judgment obtained against such heir personally, for a debt on demand in
his own right.
Sec 5593. When personally liable.— When it appears in the action,
that, before the commencement thereof, the heir has aliened the real property
descended to him, or any part thereof, he shall be personally liable for the
value of the property so aliened, and judgment may be rendered therefor,
and execution awarded, as in actions for his own debts. But no real property
aliened in good faith by an heir, before action commenced against him, is
liable to execution, or in any manner affected by a judgment against him.
Sec. 5594. When devisees not liable. — Devisees made liable, by the
foregoing provisions of this chapter, to the creditor of their testator, are not
so liable, unless it appears that his personal assets, and the real property of
the testator descended to his heirs, were insufficient to discharge the debt;
or unless it appears that, after due proceedings before the probate court, the
creditor has been unable to recover the debt, or any part thereof, from the
personal representatives of the testator, or from his next of kin or legatees,
or from his heirs.
Sec 5595. Same — Liable for deficiency — In either of the cases speci
fied in the last section, the amount of the deficiency of the personal assets, and
of the real property descended, to satisfy the debt of the plaintiff, and the
amount which such plaintiff may have failed to recover from the personal rep
resentatives of the testator, his next of kin, legatees and heirs, may be re
covered of the devisees of such testator, to the extent of the real property
devised to them respectively.
O. S. ch. 77, § 31.
Sec 559G. Same — Limitation.— But the last two sections do not affect
the liability of devisees for a debt of their testator, where such debt was, by
his will, expressly charged exclusively upon the real propert}' devised, or by
the terms of the will made paj'able exclusively by such devisee, or made pay
able out of the real property devised, before resorting to the personal prop
erty, or to any other real property descended or devised.
Sec 5597. Devisees.— The provisions of this chapter, with regard to
heirs, and to proceedings by and against them, and to judgments and execu
tions against them, are applicable to actions and proceedings against devisees,
and they must in like manner be jointly sued.
Sec 5598. Apportionment. — In actions brought against several heirs
jointly, or several devisees jointly, the amount which the plaintiff recovers
shall be apportioned among all the heirs of the ancestor, or among all the
devisees of the testator, in proportion to the value of the real property de
scended or devised; and such proportion can onl}r be recovered of each heir
or legatee.
Sec 5599. Same "When the heirs, devisees or legatees have received
real or personal estate, and are liable for any debts under the provisions of
law, they shall bo liable in proportion to the estate they may have respectively
received; and a creditor shall have a right to recover his claim against a part
or all of such heirs, devisees or legatees, to the amount of the estate they have
respectively received; but no action shall be maintained, unless commenced
within one year from the time the claim is allowed or established.
Sec 5600. Same — In case of death If any of the heirs, devisees or
legatees dies without having paid his just share of the debts, his estate shall
be liable therefor, as for his own debt, to the extent to which he would have
been liable, if living.
Sec 5601. Contribution. — If, by the will of the deceased, any part of
his estate, or any devisees or legatees, shall be made exclusively liable for the
debt, the devisees or legatees shall be liable to contribute among themselves
[only] according to the will.
Sec 5602. Same When any of the heirs, devisees or legatees pays more
than his share of such debt, the other persons liable shall be holden and com
pelled to contribute their just proportion of the same.
Sec 5603. New parties.— If all the persons liable for the payment of
any such debt shall not be included in the action as defendants, the action shall
not thereby be in any way dismissed or barred; but the court before which it
is pending may order any other parties brought in, by any proper process,
and may allow such amendments as may be necessary to make them defendants,
on such terms as the court shall prescribe.
Sec. 5601. When debt disputed. — If more than one person is liable as
aforesaid, and the creditor brings an action against all or a part of the persons
so liable, and the persons liable dispute the debt or the amount claimed, the
district court may order an issue to be formed, and direct that the amount may
be ascertained by a jury; and said court shall ascertain and determine how
much each is liable to pay, and may award execution therefor.
"Will Made.
Sec. 5605. Liability and provision — In cases where, by the provisions
of any statute, a child born after the making of a will is entitled to succeed
to a portion of the testator's real and personal property, such child shall have
the same rights and remedies to compel a distribution of the personal prop
erty, and a partition of the real property, as are provided for next of kin, and
for heirs, and shall in all respects be liable in the same manner, and to the
same extent, to the creditors of his ancestor, in respect to the personal property
delivered to him, and the real property descended to him, as is herein pre
scribed in relation to the next of kin, and heirs; and such child may recover
of the legatees and devisees who may have received or taken any real or per
sonal property of the testator, the share or portion thereof to which he may
be entitled.
Sec 5606. Sections applicable— The provisions of the last two sec
tions,1 relative to a child born after the making of a will, apply equally to
every person who, being a witness to a will, is entitled, by the provisions of
any statute, to recover a portion of the real or personal property of the testator
from the legatees and devisees named in such will.
Sec. 5607. When.— In cases where the next of kin, legatees, heirs and
devisees are liable for the debts of their ancestors, as herein provided, they
shall give preference in the payment of the same, and are liable therefor, in
the following order:
First. Debts entitled to a preference under the laws of the United States;
Second. Judgments against the ancestor or testator, according to the pri
ority thereof, respectively ;
Third. Debts due to other creditors.
Sec. 5608. When not.— No preference can be given by any next of kin,
legatee, heir or devisee, to one debt over another of the same class, except one
specified in the second subdivision of the last section; nor is a debt, due and
payable, entitled to a preference over a debt not due ; nor does the commence
ment of an action against any next of kin, legatee, heir or devisee, for the
recovery of a debt, entitle it to preference over others of the same class.
Sec 5609. Defense Of. — The next of kin, legatees, heirs and devisees
may show that there are debts of a prior class, unsatisfied ; or that there are
unpaid debts of the same class with that on which the action is brought; and
if it appears that the value of the personal property delivered to them, or of
the real estate descended or devised to them, does not exceed the debts of a
prior class, judgment shall be rendered in their favor.
Sec. 5610. Same.— If the personal property delivered to such next of kin
or' legatee, or if the real estate descended or devised to such heir and devisee,
exceeds the amount of debts which are entitled to a preference over the debt
for which the action is brought, judgment shall be rendered against them only
for such a sum as bears a just proportion to the other debts of the same class
with that on which the action is brought.
Sec. 5611. Same — Payment.— If a debt of a class prior to that on which
the action is brought, or of the same class, is paid by any next of kin, legatees,
heirs or devisees, they may prove such payment ; and the amount of the debt
so paid shall be estimated, in ascertaining the amount to be recovered, in the
same manner as if such debts were outstanding and unpaid, as prescribed in
the last two sections.
