Sec. 1. One form of action in Law and Equity.
Sec. 2. Names of parties to an action.
Sec. 3. Facts not in issue, how tried.
Sec. 1. There shall be in this Territory but one form of civil
action for the enforcement or protection of private rights and the
redress or prevention of private wrongs, 'which shall be the same a
law and in equity.
Sec. 2. In such action the party complaining shall be known as
the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
Sec. 3. When a question of fact, not put in issue by the plead
ings, is to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made,
stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact to be tried; and
such order shall be the only authority necessary for a trial.
See. 22. Actions not to abate, substitution of parties.
Sec. 23. Court may order another defendant substituted.
Sec. 24. How and when a person having an interest mag intervene.
Sec. 25. Of actions against copartners.
Sec. 26. When third parties brought in.
Sec. 27. When and how third party to interplead.
Sec. 4. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in this act.
Sec. 5. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action
by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other
defence existing at the time of, or before notice of, the assignment ; but
this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of
exchange, transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration before
due.
Sec. 6. An executor or administrator, or trustee of an express
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without
joining with him the person or persons for whose benefit the action is
prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this section, shall be construed to include a person with whom or in whose
name a contract is made for the benefit of another.
Sec. 7. When a married woman is a party her husband must join
with her, except—
First. When the action concerns her separate property, or her right
or claim to the homestead property, she may sue alone.
Second. When the action is between herself and husband, she may
sue or be sued alone.
Third. When she is living separate and apart from her husband,
she may sue or be sued alone.
Sec. 8. If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may
defend for her own right ; and if the husband neglect to defend, she
may defend for his right also.
Sec. 9. When an infant is a party he shall appear by guardian,
who may be appointed by the court in which the action was prosecuted,
or by a judge thereof, or a probate judge.
Sec. 10. The guardian shall be appointed as follows :
First. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, or if under that age upon
the application of a relative or friend of the infant.
Second. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within ten days
after the service of the summons ; if he be under the age of fourteen,
or neglect so to apply, then upon the application of any other party to
the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant.
Sec. 11. An unmarried female may prosecute, as plaintiff, an
action for her own seduction, and may recover therein such damages,
pecuniary or exemplary, as are assessed in her favor.
Sec. 12. A father, or in case of his death or desertion, the mother
may prosecute, as plaintiff, for the seduction of the daughter, and the
guardian for the seduction of the ward, though the daughter or ward
be not living with or in the service of the plaintiff at time of the seduc
tion or afterwards, and there be no loss of service.
Sec. 13. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family,
the mother, may maintain an action for the injury or death of a child ;
and a guardian for the injury or death of his ward.
Sec. 14. Where the death of a person not being a minor is caused
by the -wrongful act or neglect of another, his heirs or personal repre
sentatives may maintain an action for damages against the person
causing the death, or if such person be employed by another person,
who is responsible for his action, then also against such other person.
In every action under this and the preceding section, such damages
may be given as under all the circumstances of the case may be just.
Sec. 15. All persons having an interest in the subject of the action,
and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs,
except when otherwise provided in this act.
Sec. 16. Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims
an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a neces
sary party to a complete determination or settlement of the question
involved therein. And in an action to determine the title or right of
possession to real property which, at the time of the commencement of
the action, is in the possession of a tenant, the landlord may be joined
as a party defendant.
Sec. 17. In an action brought by a person out of possession of real
property, to determine an adverse claim of an interest or estate therein,
the person making such adverse claim and persons in possession may
join as defendants, and if the judgment be for the plaintiff, he may
have a writ for the possession of the premises as against the defend
ants in action against whom the judgment has passed.
Sec. 18. Any two or more persons claiming any estate or interest in
lands under a common source of title, whether holding as tenants in
common, joint tenants, coparceners, or in sevei.ilty, may unite in
action against any person claiming an adverse estate or interest
therein, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, or of estab
lishing such common source of title, or of declaring the same to be held
in trust, or of removing a cloud upon the same.
Sec. 19. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in
interest shall be joined as plaintiffs or defendants ; but if the consent
of any one who should have been joined as plaintiff cannot be obtained,
he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the
complaint; and when the question is one of a common or general
interest of many persons, or when the parties are numerous and it is
impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more may sue
or defend for the benefit of all.
Sec. 20. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or
instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory
notes, and sureties on the same or separate instruments, may all or
any of them be included in the same action at the option of the
plaintiff.
Sec. 21. All persons holding as tenants in common, joint tenants,
or coparceners, or any number less than all, may jointly or severally
commence or defend any civil action or proceeding for the enforcement
or protection of the rights of such party.
Sec. 22. An action or proceeding does not abate by the death,
marriage or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any
interest therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of
the death, marriage or other disability of a party, the court, on motion,
may allow the action or proceeding to be continued by or against his
representative or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer
of interest, the action or proceeding may be continued in the name of
the original party, or the court may allow the person to whom the
transfer is made to be substituted in the action or proceeding.
Sec. 23. A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a
contract, or for specific, real or personal property, may at any time,
before answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the action,
and without collusion with him, makes against him a demand for the
same debt or property, upon due notice to such person and the adverse
party, apply to the court for an order to substitute such person in his
place, and discharge him from liability to either party, on his deposit
ing in court the amount of the debt, or delivering the property or its
value to such person as the court may direct ; and the court may, in
its discretion, make the order.
Sec. 24. Any person may, before the trial, intervene in an action or
proceeding, who has an interest in the matter of litigation in the suc
cess of either of the parties, or an interest against both. An interven
tion takes place when a third person is permitted to become a party to
an action or proceeding between other persons, either by joining the
plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint, or by uniting
with the defendant in resisting the claims of the plaintiff, or by
demanding anything adversely to both the plaintiff and defendant,
and is made by complaint, setting forth the grounds upon which the
intervention rests, filed by leave of the court, and served upon the
parties to the action or proceedings who have not appeared, and upon
the attorneys of the parties who have appeared, who may answer or
demur to it as if it were an original complaint.
Sec. 25. Where two or more persons associated in the same busi
ness transact such business under a common name, whether it com
prise the names of such persons or not, the associates may be sued by
such common name, the summons in such case being served on one or
more of the associates ; and the judgment in the action shall bind the
joint property of all the associates in the same manner as if all had
been named defendants, and had been sued upon their joint liability.
Sec. 26. The court may determine any controversy between parties
before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others,
or by saving their rights ; but when a complete determination of the
controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the
court shall order them to be brought in.
Sec. 27. When, in a civil action, a person not a party thereto, but
having an interest in the subject thereof, makes application to the
court to be made a party, it may order him- to be brought in, and upon
due service upon the adverse party of his complaint, or answer, the
same proceedings shall be had as if he had been an original party to
the action.
Sec. 28. Civil actions only to be commenced within certain limits.
Sec. 28. Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods
prescribed in this Title, after the cause of action shall have accrued,
except where, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed by
statute.
CHAPTER II.
OF THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY.
Sec. 29. Action for the recovery of real property.
Sec. 30. Action for the recovery of interest in real property.
Sec. 3 1 . When entry upon real estate deemed sufficient.
Sec. 32. When possession presumed to be established.
Sec. 33. When property deemed to be held adversely.
Sec. 34. What constitutes adverse possession.
Sec. 35. As to adverse possession by occupancy only.
Sec. 36. What constitutes adverse possession when title not founded on a
zvritten instrument.
Sec. 37. Extent t/iat possession of tenant is deemed possession of the
landlord.
Sec. 38. Right of possession not impaired by the death of party in
possession.
Sec. 39. Time during ivhich certain disabilities continue not to be
counted as portion of limitation.
Sec. 40. Limitation as to mining property.
Sec. 29. No action for the recovery of real property, or for the
recovery of the possession thereof, can be maintained unless it appear
that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor or grantor was seized or
possessed of the property in question within five years before the com
mencement of the action.
Sec. 30. No cause of action or defence to an action, arising out of
the title to real property, or to rents or profits out of the same, can be
effectual unless it appear that the person prosecuting the action, or
making the defence, or under whose title the action is prosecuted, or
the defence is made, or the ancestor, predecessor or grantor of such
person, was seized or possessed of the premises in question within five
years before the commencement of the act in respect to which such
action is prosecuted or defence made.
Sec. 81. No entry upon real estate is deemed sufficient or valid, as
a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon within one year
after making such entry, and within five years from the right to make
it -descended or accrued.
Sec. 82. In every action for the recovery of real property, or the
possession thereof, the person establishing a legal title to the property
'is presumed to have been possessed thereof within the time required
by law, and the occupation of the property by any other person is
deemed to have been under and in subordination to the legal title,
unless it appear that the property has been held and possessed
adversely to such legal title for five years before the commencement of
the action.
Sec. 33. When it appears that the occupant, or those under whom
he claims, entered into the possession of the property under claim of title, exclusive of other right, founding such claim upon a written
instrument as being a conveyance of the property in question, or upon
the decree or judgment of a competent court, and that there had been
a continued occupation and possession of the property included in
such instrument, decree, or judgment, or of some part of the property
under such claim, for five years, the property so included is deemed to
have been held adversely, except that, when it consists of a tract
divided into lots, the possession of one lot is not deemed a possession
of any other lot of the same tract.
Sec. 34. For the purpose of constituting adverse possession by any
person claiming a title founded upon a written instrument, or a
judgment or decree, land is deemed to have been possessed and occu
pied in the following cases :
First. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
Second. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.
Third. Where, although not enclosed, it has been used for the
supply of fuel, or of fencing timber for the purposes of husbandry, or
for pasturage, or for the ordinary use of the occupant.
Fourth. Where a known farm or single lot has been partly improved,
the portion of such farm or lot that may have been left not cleared, or
not enclosed, according to the usual course and custom of the adjoin
ing country, shall be deemed to have been occupied for the same length
of time as the part improved and cultivated.
Sec. 35. 'Where it appears that there has been an actual continued
occupation of land, under a claim of title exclusive of any other right,
but not founded upon a written instrument, judgment, or decree, the
land so actually occupied, and no other, is deemed to have been held
adversely.
Sec. 36. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession by
a person claiming title not founded upon a written instrument, judg
ment, or decree, land is deemed to have been possessed and occupied
in the following cases only :
First. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.
Second. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
Sec. 37. When the relation of landlord and tenant has existed
between any persons, the possession of the tenant is deemed the
possession of the landlord until the expiration of five years from the
termination of the tenancy, or, where there has been no written lease,
until the expiration of five years from the time of the last payment of
rent, notwithstanding that such tenant may have acquired another title, or may have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord ; but such
presumptions cannot be made after the periods herein limited.
Sec. 38. The right of a person to the possession of real property is
not impaired or affected by a descent cast in consequence of the death
of a person in possession of such property.
Sec. 39. If a person entitled to commence an action for the recovery "
of real property, or for the recovery of possession thereof, or to make
any entry, or defence founded on the title to real property, or to rents
or services out of the same, be, at the time such title descends or
accrues, either, first, within the age of majority ; or, second, insane ;
or, third, imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon con
viction of a criminal offence, for a term less than for life; or, fourth,
a married woman, and her husband be a necessary party with her in
commencing such action or making such entry or defence—the time
during which such disability continues is not deemed any portion of
the time in this chapter limited for the commencement of such action,
or the making of such entry or defence, but such action may be com
menced, or entry or defence made, within the period of five years after
such disability shall cease, or after the death of the person entitled
who shall die under such disability ; but such action shall not be com
menced, or entry or defence made, after that period.
Sec. 40. No action for the recovery of mining claims (lode claims
excepted), or for the recovery of possession thereof, shall be main
tained, unless it appear that the plaintiff or his assigns was seized or
possessed of such mining claims within one year before the commence
ment of such action.
CHAPTER III.
OF THE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS OTHER THAN FOR THE
RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY.
Sec.
41.
Sec. 42.
Sec. 43.
Sec.
44.
Sec.
45.
Sec. 46.
Sec.
47.
Sec. 48.
Sec.
49.
Sec. 50.
Sec.
51.
Sec.
52.
Sec. 53.
Sec.
54.
Sec.
55.
On Judgments and written contracts.
Limitation in cases of trespass, fraud, etc.
Against public officer.
On parol contract, account, libel, etc.
Action for penalties and against officer for an escape.
No limitation to recover money deposited with a bank.
Limitation of actions not specially provided for.
Computation of time limited in actions on account.
When the Territory is a party.
Absence from Territory not included in time limited.
In case of the reversal of a judgment.
Injunction or statute stops limitation.
Effect of new promise on limitation.
Effect of part payment on limitation.
Causes of action arising out of tlie Territory.
Sec. 41. Actions other than those for the recovery of real property,
as follows : 1, an action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the
United States, or of any State or Territory within the United States,
shall be commenced within six years ; 2, an action upon any contract,
obligation or liability, founded upon an instrument in writing, shall be
commenced within six years.
Sbc. 42. 1, an action for waste or trespass upon real property ; 2, an
action upon a liability created by a statute, other than a penalty of for
feiture ; 8, an action for taking, detaining or injuring any goods or
chattels, including actions for the specific recovery of personal property ;
4, an action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake (the cause of
action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued until the discovery
by the aggrieved party of the facts constituting fraud or mistake), shall
be commenced within two years.
Sec. 43. An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable, upon the
liability incurred by the doing of an act in official capacity and in vir
tue of his office, or by the omission of an official duty, shall be com
menced within two years.
Sec. 44. 1, an action upon an account, or other contract, obligation or
liability, not founded upon an instrument of writing ; 2, an action for
libel, assault, or assault and battery, or false imprisonment ; 8, an action
upon an account for goods, wares, or merchandise sold and delivered,
and upon any express or implied promise not above enumerated, shall
be commenced within two years.
Sec. 45. 1, an action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, when
the action is given to an individual, or to an individual and the Terri
tory, except where the statute imposing it prescribes a different limita
tion ; 2, an action against a sheriff or other officer for the escape of a
prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process, shall be commenced
within one year.
Sec. 46. There shall be no limitation upon the right to maintain an
action for the recovery of money or other property deposited with any
bank, banker, trust company, or savings and loan society.
Sec. 47. An action for relief not hereinbefore provided for must
be commenced within three years after the cause of action shall have
accrued.
Sec. 48. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a
mutual, open, and current account, where there have been reciprocal
demands between the parties, the cause of action is deemed to have
accrued from the time of the last item proved in the account on either
side.
Sec. 49. The limitations prescribed in this act shall apply to actions
brought in the name of the Territory, or for the benefit of the Territory,
in the same manner as to actions brought by private parties.
Sec. 50. If when the cause of action shall accrue against a person
when be is out of the Territory, the action may be commenced within the
time herein limited, after his return to the Territory ; and if after the
cause of action shall have accrued he depart from this Territory, the
time of his absence shall not be a part of the time limited for the com
mencement of the action.
Sec. 51. If the action shall be commenced within the time pre
scribed therefor, and a judgment therein for the plaintiff be rendered
on error or appeal, the plaintiff, or if he die and the cause of action sur
vive, his heirs or representatives may commence a new action within
one year after the reversal.
Sec. 52. When the commencement of an action is stayed by injunc
tion, or a statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the
injunction or prohibition shall not be a part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action.
Sec. 53. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient evidence
of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the case out of the
operation of this act, unless the same is contained in some writing
signed by the party to be charged thereby ; but this act shall not alter
the effect of any payment of principal or interest.
Sec. 54. Whenever any payment of principal or interest has been
or shall be made upon an existing contract, whether it be bill of
exchange, promissory note, bond, or other evidence of indebtedness, if
such payment shall be made after the same shall have become due, the
limitation shall commence from the time the last payment was made.
Sec. 55. When the cause of action shall have arisen in any other
State or Territory of the United States, or in a foreign country, and by
the laws thereof an action cannot be maintained against a person by
reason of the lapse of time, no action thereon shall be commenced against
him in this Territory.
Sec.
57-
Sec. 58.
Sec.
59Sec.
60.
Sec. 6i.
Sec.
62.
Sec. 63.
Sec.
64.
TITLE IV.—CHAPTER I.
OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.
Sec. 56. Actions to be tried in the County wltere subject of action is
situated.
Actions to be tried in the County where cause of action arose.
Actions against Counties.
Actions in all other cases .
Actions arising in a County attached to another forjudicial
purposes.
Actions not to abate if brought in wrong County.
Venue, how clianged.
Venue, how changed when Court is disqualified.
Papers and pleadings to be transmitted when change of Venue
granted.
Sec. 65. Clerk to certify and transmit judgment affecting real estate in
another County.
Sec. 56. Except when otherwise provided, actions for the follow
ing causes shall be tried in the county in which the subject of the action,
or some part thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the court to
change the place of trial, as provided in this act :
First. For the recovery of real property, or of an interest therein,
or for the determination in any form of such right or interest, and for
injuries to real property.
Second. For the partition of real property.
Third. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property : Provided,
That where such real property. is situated partly in one county and
partly in another, the plaintiff may select either of said counties, and
the county so selected shall be the proper county for the trial of any or
all of such actions as are mentioned in this section.
Sec. 57. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the
county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the like
power of the court to change the place of trial :
First. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
statute, except that when it is imposed for an offence committed on a
lake, river, or other stream of water, situated in two or more counties,
the action may be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river,
or stream, and opposite to the place where the offence was committed.
Second. Against a public officer or person especially appointed to
execute his duties, for an act done by nim in virtue of his office, or
against a person who, by his command, or in his aid, does anything
touching the duties of such officer.
Sec. 58. Actions against counties may be commenced and tried in
any county in the judicial district in which such county is situated,
unless such actions are between counties, in which case they may be
commenced and tried in any county not a party thereto.
Sec. 59. In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the county
in which the defendants, or any of them, may reside at the commence
ment of the action, or where the plaintiff resides, and the defendants,
or any of them, may be found ; or if none of the defendants reside in
the Territory, or if| residing in the Territory, the county in which they
so reside be unknown to the plaintiff, the same may be tried in any
county which the plaintiff may designate in his complaint ; and if any
defendant or defendants may be about to depart from the Territory,
such action may be tried in any county where either of the parties may
reside, or service be had. Actions upon contracts may be tried in the
county in which the contract was to be performed ; and actions for
torts, in the county where the tort was committed; subject, however,
to the power of the court to change the place of trial, as provided in
this act.
Sec. 60. When a county shall be attached to another county for
judicial purposes, actions arising or triable therein, of which a district
court shall have exclusive jurisdiction, shall be commenced and tried
in the county to which such county may be so attached.
Sec. 61. If the county in which the action is commenced is not the
proper county for the trial thereof, the action may, notwithstanding, be
tried therein, unless the defendant, at the time he appears and answers
or demurs, files an affidavit of merits, and demands, in writing, that
the trial be had in the proper county.
Sec. 62. The court may, on good cause shown, change the place of
trial in the following cases :
First. When the county designated in the complaint is not the pro
per county.
Second. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial can
not be had therein.
Third. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice
would be promoted by the change.
Fourth. When, from any cause, the judge is disqualified from act
ing in the action : Provided, The court shall not change the place
of trial for disqualification of the district judge, in any case where the
judge of another district court will appear and try the action.
Sec. 63. If an action or proceeding is commenced or pending in a
court, and the judge or justice thereof is disqualified from acting as
such, or if for any cause, the court orders the place of trial to be
changed, it must be transferred for trial to a court the parties may
agree upon by stipulation in writing, or made in open court, and entered
in the minutes ; or if they do not so agree, then to the nearest court
where the like objection or cause for making the order does not exist,
as follows : •
First. If in the district court, to another district court.
Second. If in the probate court, to some other probate court.
Third. If in a justice's court, to another justice's court in the same
county.
Sec. 64. When an order is made, transferring an' action or proceed
ing for trial, the clerk of the court or justice of the peace must transmit
the pleading and papers therein to the clerk or justice of the court to
which it is transferred. The costs and fees thereof, and of filing the
papers anew, must be paid by the party at whose instance the order
was made. The court to which an action or proceeding is transferred
has, and exercises over the same, the like jurisdiction as if it had been
originally commenced therein.
Sec. 65. When an action or proceeding affecting the title to or
possession of real estate has been brought in or transferred to any court
of a county other than the county in which the real estate, or some por
tion of it, is situated, the clerk of such court must, after final judgment,
thereon, certify, under his seal of office, and transmit to the correspond
ing court of the county in which the real estate affected by the action
is situated, a copy of the judgment. The clerk receiving such copymust
file, docket, and record the judgment in the records of the court,,
briefly designating it as a judgment transferred from court (nam
ing the proper court.)
TITLE V. CHAPTER I.
OF THE MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.
Sec. 66. Civil Actions, how commenced.
Sec. 67. Complaint to be endorsed, when and how summons issued or
waived.
Sec. 68. Summons, how directed, signed and issued, and contents thereof. .
Sec. 69. Alias summons, when issued.
Sec. 70. Notice of lis pendens.
Sec. 71. Summons, by whom served and how returned.
Sec. 72. Summons, how served.
Sec. 73. Summons, how served on non-residents, corporations, and when
defendant cannot be found.
Sec. 74. Publication, service by, how obtained.
Sec. 75. When service made on one or more of two or more joint de
fendants, how to proceed.
Sec. 76. Proof of service of summons.
Sec. 77. Time and place of service to be stated.
Sec. 78. Jurisdiction, when court deemed to have acquired.
Sec. 66. Civil actions in the courts of this Territory are commenced
by filing a complaint.
Sec. 67. The clerk must endorse on^ne complaint the day, month
and year that it is filed, and at any time within one year thereafter the
plaintiff may have a summons issued, and if the action be brought
against two or more defendants who reside in different counties, may
have a summons issued for each of such counties at the same time.
But at any time within the year after the complaint is filed, the de
fendant may, in writing or by appearing and answering or demurring,
waive the issuing of summons, or if the action be brought upon a joint
contract of two or more defendants, and one of them has appeared
within the year, the other or others may be served or appear after the
year at any time before trial.
Sec. 68. The summons must be directed to the defendant, signed
by the clerk, and issued under the seal of the court, and must contain :
First. The names of the parties to the action, the court in which
it is brought, and the county m which the complaint is filed.
Second. The cause and general nature of the action.
Third. A direction that the defendant appear and answer the com
plaint within ten days, if the summons is served within the county in
which the action is brought ; within twenty days, if served out of the
county, but in the district in which the action is brought ; and within
forty days, if served elsewhere.
Fourth. In an action arising on contract, for the recovery of money
or damages only, a notice that unless the defendant so appears and
answers, the plaintiff will take judgment for the sum demanded in the
complaint (stating it).
Fifth. In other actions, a notice that unless defendant so appears
and answers, the plaintiff will apply to the court forthe relief demanded
in the complaint.
The name of the plaintiff's attorney must be endorsed on the summons.
Sec. 69. If the summons is returned without being served on any
or all of the defendants, or if it has been lost, the clerk, upon the
demand of the plaintiff, may issue an alias summons in the same form
as the original.
Sec. 70. In an action affecting the title or the right of possession
of real property, the plaintiff, at the time of filing the complaint, and
the defendant, at the time of filing his answer, when affirmative relief
is claimed in such answer, or at any time afterwards, may record in
the office of the recorder of the county in which the property is situated,
a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the
parties and the object of the action or defence, and a description of the
property in that county affected thereby. From the time of filing such
notice for record only shall a purchaser or incumbrancer of the prop
erty affected thereby be deemed to have constructive notice of the
pendency of the action, and only of its pendency against parties desig
nated by their real names.
Sec. 71. The summons may be served by the sheriff of the county
where the defendant is found, or by any other person over the age of
eighteen, not a party to the action. When the summons is served by
the sheriff it must be returned, with his certificate of its service, and
of the service of any copy of the complaint, where such copy is served,
to the office of the clerk from which it issued. When it is served by
any other person it must be returned to the same place, with an affida
vit of such person of its service, and of the service of a copy of the
complaint, where such copy is served.
Sec. 72. The summons must be served by delivering a copy thereof,
as follows :
First. If the suit is against a corporation formed under the laws of
this Territory, to the president or other head of the corporation, secre
tary, cashier or managing agent thereof.
Second. If the suit is against a foreign corporation, or a non-resi
dent joint-stock company or association doing business and having a
managing or business agent, cashier, or secretary, within this Territory,
to such agent, cashier or secretary.
Third. If against a minor, under the age of fourteen years, residing
within this Territory, to such minor personally, and also to his father,
mother, or guardian ; or if there be none within this Territory, then to
any person having the care or control of such minor, or with whom he
resides, or in whose service he is employed.
Fourth. If against a person residing within this Territory, who has
been judicially declared of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting
his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been appointed, to such
person, and also to his guardian.
Fifth. If against a county, city or town, to the president of the
board of supervisors, president of the council or trustees, or other head
of the legislative department thereof.
Sixth. In all other cases, to the defendant personally.
Sec. 73. Where the person on whom the service is to be made
resides out of the Territory, or has departed from the Territory, or
cannot after due diligence be found within the Territory, or conceals
himself to avoid the service of summons, or is a foreign corporation,
having no managing or business agent, cashier or secretary within the
Territory, and the fact appears by affidavit to the satisfaction of the
court or judge thereof, and it also appears by such affidavit, or by the
verified complaint on file, that a cause of action exists against the
defendant in respect to whom the service is to be made, or that he is a
necessary or proper party to the action, such court or judge may make
an order that the service be made by the publication of the summons.
Sec. 74. The order must direct the publication to be made in a
newspaper to be designated as most likely to give notice to the person
to be served, and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable—
at least once a week ; but publication against a defendant residing out
of the Territory, or absent therefrom, must not be less than four weeks.
In case of publication where the residence of a non-resident or absent
defendant is known, the court or judge must direct a copy of the
summons to be forthwith deposited in the post-office, directed to the
person to be served, at his place of residence. When publication is
ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint out
of the Territory is equivalent to publication and deposit in the postoffice
; and in either case the service of the summons is complete at the
expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication.
Sec. 75. When the action is against two or more defendants jointly
or severally liable on a contract, and the summons is served on one or
more, but not on all of them, the plaintiff may proceed against the
defendant served in the same manner as if they were the only defen
dants.
Sec. 76. Proof of the service of summons must be as follows :
First. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof.
Second. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof ; or,
Third. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer or his
foreman or principal clerk, showing the same ; and an affidavit of a
deposit of a copy of the summons in the post-office, if the same has
been deposited ; or,
Fourth. The written admission of the defendant.
Sec. 77. In case of service otherwise than by publication, the cer
tificate or affidavit must state the time and place of service.
Sec. 78. From the time of the service of the summons and of the
copy of the complaint in a civil action, where service of a copy of the
complaint is required, or of the completion of the publication when
service by publication is ordered, the court is deemed to have acquired
jurisdiction of the parties, and to have control of all the subsequent
proceedings. The voluntary appearance of a defendant is equivalent
to personal service of the summons upon him.
TITLE VI.
OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
CHAPTER I.
Sec. 79. Pleadings defined.
Sec. 80. Forms and sufficiency of pleadings.
Sec. 81. Pleadings of plaintiff and defendant.
Sec. 79. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the parties of
their respective claims and defences for the judgment of the court.
Sec. 80. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the rules
by which the sufficiency of the pleadings shall be determined, shall be
those prescribed in this act.
Sec. 81. The only pleadings allowed on the part of the plaintiff are :
First. The complaint ;
Second. The demurrer to the answer ;
Third. The replication to defendant's answer.
And on the part of defendant :
First. The demurrer to the complaint ;
Second. The answer.
Sec. 82. Complaint.
Sec. 88. Complaint must contain.
CHAPTER H.
THE COMPLAINT.
Sec. 84. Joinder of actions.
Sec. 82. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is the com
plaint.
Sec. 83. The complaint must contain :
First. The title of the action ; the name of the court and county
in which the action is brought, and the names of the parties to the
action.
Second. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action,
in ordinary and concise language.
Third. A demand of the relief which the plaintiff claims. If the
recovery of money or damages be demanded, the amount thereof
must be stated.
Sec. 84. The plaintiff may unite several causes of action in the
same complaint when they arise out of :
First. Contracts, expressed or implied.
Second. Claims to recover specific real property, with or without
damages, for the withholding thereof, or for waste committed thereon,
and the rents and profits of the same, and for an injunction to stay
waste or injury thereto.
Third. Claims to recover specific personal property, with or without
damages, for the withholding thereof.
Fourth. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or by
operation of law.
Fifth. Injuries to character.
Sixth. Injuries to person.
Seventh. Injuries to property ; but the causes of action so united
shall all belong to only one of these classes, and shall affect all the
parties to the action, and not reqiiire different places of trial, and shall
be separately stated : Provided, however, That an action for malicious
arrest and prosecution, or either of them, may be united with an action
for either an injury to character or to person.
CHAPTEK III.
THE DEMURRER.
Sec. 85. When defendant may demur.
Sec. 86. When objections deemed waived.
Sec. 85. The defendant may demur to the complaint within the
time required in summons to answer, when it appears upon the face
thereof, either:
First. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant or the subject of the action ; or,
Second. That the plaintiff has no legal capacity to sue ; or,
Third. That there is another action pending between the same par
ties for the same cause ; or,
Fourth. That there is a defect or misjoinder of parties, plaintiff or
defendant; or,
Fifth. That several causes of action have been improperly united ;
or'
Sixth. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to consti
tute a cause of action ; or,
Seventh. That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible or uncer
tain.
The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds upon which any of
the objections to the complaint are taken ; unless it do so, it may be
disregarded.
The defendant may demur to the whole complaint, or to one or more
of several causes of action stated therein, and answer the residue, or
may demur and answer at the same time : Provided, That a demurrer
and answer shall in no case be filed at the same time to the same cause
of action ; but demurrers must be disposed of before any other plead
ings to the same cause of action shall be filed.
If the complaint be amended, a copy of the amendments shall be
filed, or the court may, in its discretion, require the complaint as
amended to be filed, and a copy of the amendments shall be served
upon every defendant to be affected thereby, or upon his attorney, if he
has appeared by attorney. The defendant shall answer in such time
as may be ordered by the court, and judgment by default may be
entered upon failure to answer, as in other cases.
Sec. 86. When any of the matters enumerated in Section 85 do
not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be
taken by answer. If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer
or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same,
excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court and the
objection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to con
stitute a cause of action.
Sec. 87. What answer to contain.
Sec. 88. Counter claims.
CHAPTER IV.
THE ANSWER.
Sec. 89. Counter claims, when barred, cross demands.
Sec. 87. The answer of the defendant shall contain:
First. A specific denial of the material allegations of the complaint
controverted by the defendant.
Second. A statement of any new matter constituting a defence or
counter claim.
If the complaint be verified, the denial of each allegation contro
verted must be specific, and be made positively or according to the
information and belief of the defendant.
Sec. 88. The counter claim mentioned in the last section shall be
one existing in favor of the defendant or plaintiff, and against a
Elaintiff or defendant, between whom a several judgment might be
ad in the action, arising out of one of the following causes of action :
First. A cause of action arising out of the transaction set forth in
the complaint or answer as the foundation of the plaintiff's claim or
defendant's defence, or connected with the subject of the action.
Second. In an action arising upon contract, any other cause of
action arising also upon contract, and existing at the commencement
of the action.
Sec. 89. If the defendant omit to set up a counter claim in the
cases mentioned in the first sub-division of the last section, neither he
nor his assignee can afterwards maintain an action against the plaintiff
therefor.
When cross demands have existed between persons under such cir
cumstances that if one had brought an action against the other a
counter claim could have been set up, neither shall be deprived of the
benefit thereof by the assignment or death of the other, but the two
demands shall be deemed compensated so far as they equal each other.
The defendant may set forth, by answer, as many defences and
counter claims as he may have ; they shall each be separately stated,
and the several defences shall refer to the causes of action which they
are intended to answer in a manner by which they may be intelligibly
distinguished.
CHAPTER V.
DEMURRER TO ANSWER—REPLICATION.
Sec. 90. The demurrer to answer.
Sec. 91. Causes of demurrer.
Sec. 92. Replication.
Sec. 90. The plaintiff may, within the same length of time after
service of the answer as the defendant is allowed to answer after
service of summons, demur to the answer of the defendant, or to one
or more of the several defences or counter claims set up in the answer.
Sec. 91. The demurrer may be taken upon one or more of the
following grounds :
First. That several causes of counter claim have been improperly
joined.
Second. That the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a defence or counter claim.
Third. That the answer is ambiguous, unintelligible, or uncertain.
Sec. 92. When the answer contains new matter the plaintiff may,
within ten days from the date of filing such answer, reply thereto, and
upon the overruling of a demurrer to an answer, the court may allow
the plaintiff to file a reply upon payment of costs caused by such
demurrer.
CHAPTEE VI.
VERIFICATION. ETC., OF PLEADINGS.
Sec. 93. Pleadings subscribed.
Sec. 94. Verification of pleadings.
Sec. 95. Genuineness and due execution of a written instrument
admitted u?iless answer is verified.
Sec. 96. When genuineness and due execution of a written instrument
in the answer, admitted.
Sec. 97. When not deemed admitted.
Sec. 93. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party or his
attorney.
Sec. 94. All complaints, answers and replications shall be verified
as provided in this section, except that when an admission of the truth
of the allegation might subject the party to a prosecution for felony or
misdemeanor, or when the action is by the district attorney, in behalf
of the Territory or county, the verification may be omitted. The
affidavit of verification shall state that the facts stated in the pleading
are true to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to those
matters which are therein stated on his information and belief, and as
to those matters, that he believes it to be true. Such verification shall
be made by the party, or if there are several parties united in interest
or pleading, by one at least of such parties acquainted with the facts,
if such party is in the county and capable of making the affidavit.
The verification may also 'be made by the agent or attorney of the
party, if the party is absent from the county where the attorney resides,
or is from any other cause unable to verify the pleading, and in such
case the verification shall state that the affiant is the agent or attorney
of the party, and the reason why such verification is made by such
agent or attorney, and that the facts stated in the pleading are true to
the best knowledge, information and belief of such agent or attorney.
When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made by any
officer thereof, and shall state what officer he is, and that the facts
stated in the pleading are true to the best knowledge, information and
belief of such officer.
Sec. 95. When an action is brought upon a written instrument,
and the complaint contains a copy of such instrument, or a copy is
annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such instrument
shall be deemed admitted, unless the answer denying the same shall
be verified.
Sec. 96. When the defence to an action is founded on a written
instrument, and a copy thereof is contained in the answer, or is
annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such instru
ment are deemed admitted, unless the plaintiff file with the clerk,
within ten days after the filing of the answer, an affidavit denying the
same, and serve a copy thereof on the defendant.
Sec. 97. But the execution of the instrument mentioned in the two
preceding sections is not deemed admitted by a failure to deny the
same under oath, if the party desiring to controvert the same is, upon
demand, refused an inspection of the original.
Sec. 98.
Sec.
99.
Sec. 100.
Sec.
101.
Sec. 102.
Sec. 103.
Sec. 104.
Sec. 105.
Sec. 106.
Sec.
107.
Sec. 108.
Sec. 109.
CHAPTER VII.
CONSTRUCTION OP PLEADINGS, ETC.
Allegations in pleadings liberally construed.
Sham, irrelevant and redundant matter; items of account.
Description of real property in complaint.
Judgments, how pleaded.
Conditions precedent, how pleaded.
Statute of Limitations, how pleaded and how controverted.
Private statute, how pleaded.
Libel and slander, what stated in the complaint.
Answer in libel and slander.
Allegations in pleadings not controverted deemed true, etc.
Material allegation defined.
Supplemental pleadings.
Sec. 98. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of deter
mining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view
to^substantial justice between the parties.
Sec. 99. Sham and irrelevant answers, and irrelevant and redun
dant matter, inserted in a pleading may be stricken out upon such
terms as the court may in its discretion impose.
It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the
items of an account therein alleged ; but he shall deliver to the adverse
party, within five days after a demand therefor in writing, a copy of
the account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court,
or judge thereof, or probate judge, may order a further account when
the one delivered is too general, or is defective in any particular.
Sec. 100. In action for the recovery of real property, it must be
described in the complaint with such certainty as to enable an officer
upon execution to identify it.
Sec. 101. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a
court, or officer of especial jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determin
ation may be stated to have been duly given or made. If such
allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to
establish, on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.
Sec. 102. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a
contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such per
formance, but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed
all the conditions on his part ; and if such allegation be controverted,
the party pleading shall establish, on the trial, the facts showing such
performance.
Sec. 108. In pleading the Statute of Limitations, it is not necessary
to state the facts showing the defence, but it may be stated generally
that the cause of action is barred by the provisions of sections
(giving the number of the section, and sub-division thereof, if it is so
divided, relied upon) of the Code of Civil Procedure ; and if such allega
tion be controverted, the party pleading must establish, on the trial,
the facts showing that the cause of action is so barred.
Sec. 104. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived there
from, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and the
day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice
thereof.
Sec. 105. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary
to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing
the application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter out of which
the cause of action arose ; but it shall be sufficient to state generally
that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintiff ; and if
such allegation be controverted, the plaintiff shall establish, on the
trial, that it was so published or spoken.
Sec. 106. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defend
ant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged
as defamatory and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the amount
of damages ; and whether he prove the justification or not, he may
give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.
Sec. 107. Every material allegation of the complaint or answer not
controverted by the answer, or replication thereto, shall, for the pur
poses of the action, be taken as true. The statement in the replica
tion of matter in avoidance shall, on the trial, be deemed controverted
by the adverse party.
Sec. 108. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to
the claim or defence, and which could not be stricken from the plead
ing without leaving it insufficient.
Sec. 109. The plaintiff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed,
on motion, to make a supplemental complaint or answer, alleging facts
material to the case, occurring after the former complaint or answer.
Sec.
no.
Sec.
in.
Sec. 112.
Sec.
"3-
Sec. 114.
Sec. 115.
Sec. 116.
Sec. 117.
CHAPTER VIII.
VARIANCE—ERRORS—AMENDMENTS.
Variance between pleadings and proofs.
Variance not material, power of court.
What variance deemed failure of proof
Pleadings amended once without costs.
Amendments on terms, judgment by mistake, etc.
In actions for recovery of personal property, when error in
stating value disregarded
WJien defendant may be sued by fictitious name.
Court may disregard errors not affecting substantial rights.
Sec. 1 10. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the
proofs is to be deemed material, unless it has actually misled the
adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defence
upon the merits. Where it appears that a party has been so misled,
the court may order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as
may be just.
Sec. 111. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the
last section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the
evidence, or may order an immediate amendment, without costs.
Sec. 112. Where, however, the allegation of the claim, or defence
to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some particular or
particulars only, but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be
deemed a case at variance within the last two sections, but a failure of
proofs.
Sec. 113. Any pleading may be amended once by the party of
course, and without costs, at any time before answer or demurrer filed,
and after the demurrer and before the trial of the issue of law thereon,
by filing the same as amended, and serving a copy on the adverse
party, who may have ten days thereafter in which to answer or demur
to the amended pleading.
Sec. 114. The court may, in furtherance of justice and on such
terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceeding, by adding
or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in
the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect ; and may, upon
like terms, enlarge the time for an answer, replication or demurrer, or
demurrer to an answer filed. The court may likewise, upon affidavit
showing good cause therefor, after notice to the adverse party, allow,
upon such terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in any other particulars ; and may, upon like terms, allow
an answer to be made after the time limited by this act ; and may,
upon such terms as may be just, and upon payment of costs, relieve
a party or his legal representatives from a judgment, order, or other
proceeding taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, sur
prise, or excusable neglect ; and when, for any cause satisfactory to
the court, or the judge at chambers, the party aggrieved has been
unable to apply for the relief sought, during the term at which such
judgment, order or proceeding complained of was taken, the court or
judge at chambers, in vacation, may grant the relief, upon application
made within a reasonable time, not exceeding five months after the
adjournment of the term. When, from any cause, the summons and
copy of the complaint in an action have not been personally served on
the defendant, the court may allow, on such terms as may be just, such
defendant or his legal representatives, at any time within l3ix months
after the rendition of any judgment in such action, to answer to the
merits of the original action.
Sec. 115. When, in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, the person making any affidavit did not truly state the value
of the property, and the officer taking the property, or the sureties on
any bond, are sued for taking the same, the officer or sureties may, in
their answer, set up the true value of the property, and that the per
son in whose behalf said affidavit was made was entitled to the posses
sion of the same when said affidavit was made ; or that the value in
the affidavit stated was inserted by mistake ; and the court shall disre
gard the value, as stated in the affidavit, and give judgment according
to the right of possession of said property at the time the affidavit was
made.
Sec. 116. When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defend
ant, such defendant may be designated, in any pleading or proceed
ing, by any name ; and when his true name is discovered, the pleadings
or proceedings may be amended accordingly.
Sec. 117. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard
any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not
affect the substantial rights of the parties ; and no judgment shall be
reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.
Sec. 118. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as
prescribed in this act.
Sec. 119. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter prescribed,
in the following cases arising after the passage of this act :
First. In an action for the recovery of money or damages, on a
cause of action arising upon contract, express or implied, when the
defendant is about to depart from the Territory with intent to defraud
his creditors ; or when the action is for willful injury to person, to char
acter, or to property, knowing the property to belong to another.
Second. In an action for a fine or penalty ; or for money or property
embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied or converted to bis own use by
a public officer, or an officer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor,
broker, agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or by
any other person in a fiduciary capacity ; or for misconduct or neglect
in office, or in a professional employment ; or for a willful violation of
duty.
Third. In an action to recover possession of personal property,
unjustly obtained, when the property, or any part thereof, has been con
cealed, removed or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or taken by
the sheriff.
Fourth. When the defendant has been guilty of fraud in contract
ing the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought,
or in concealing or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention
or conversion of which the action is brought.
Fifth. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his prop
erty, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
Sec. 120. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall be obtained
from a judge of the court in which the action is brought, or from a
probate judge.
Sec. 121. The order shall be made whenever it shall appear to the
judge, by the affidavit of the plaintiff or some other person, that a suffi
cient cause of action exists, and that the case is one of those men
tioned in Section 119. Before making the order, the judge shall require
a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with at least two
sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment,
or if the court shall finally decide that the plaintiff was not entitled to
an order of arrest, the plaintiff will pay all costs and charges that may
be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the wrongful suing out of the order of arrest, not exceed
ing the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least five
hundred dollars.
Sec. 122. Each of the sureties shall annex to the undertaking an
affidavit that he is a resident and householder, or freeholder, within
the Territory, and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking,
over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution. The undertaking shall be filed with the clerk
of the court.
Sec. 123. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or
at any time afterwards, before judgment. It shall require the sheriff
of the county where the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest
him and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order
at a time therein mentioned to the clerk of the court in which the
action is pending.
Sec. 124. The order of arrest, with a ccpy of the affidavit upon
which it is made, shall be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon arresting
the defendant, shall deliver to him a copy of the affidavit, and also, if
desired, a copy of the order of arrest.
Sec. 125. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the
defendant and keeping him in custody until discharged by law : Pro
vided, That the sheriff shall not be bound to keep such person under
arrest more than twenty-four hours, unless the plaintiff advance each
day the expense of keeping such person, which expense shall be taxed
as costs in the action, and in no case shall be a charge against the
county.
Sec. 126. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be
discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail or upon depositing
the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this chapter.
Sec. 127. The defendant may give bail by causing a written under
taking to be executed by two or more sufficient sureties, stating their
places of residence and occupations, to the effect that they are bound
m the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, that the defendant
shall at all times render himself amenable to the process of the court
during the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to
enforce the judgment therein ; or that they will pay to the plaintiff the
amount of any judgment which may be recovered in the action.
Sec. 128. At any time before judgment, or within ten days there
after, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he
may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he was
arrested.
Sec. 129. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail,
at any time or place before they are finally charged, may themselves
arrest him, or by a written authority endorsed on a certified copy of
the undertaking, may empower the sheriff to do so. Upon the arrest
of the defendant by the sheriff, or upon his delivery to the sheriff by the
bail, or upon his own surrender, the bail shall be exonerated : Pro
vided, Such arrest, delivery, or surrender take place before the expira
tion of ten days after judgment ; but if such arrest, delivery or sur
render be not made within ten days after judgment, the bail shall be
finally charged on their undertaking, and be bound to pay the amount
of the judgment within ten days thereafter.
Sec. 180. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judgment within
ten days after they are finally charged, an action may be commenced
against such bail for the amount of such original judgment.
Sec. 181. The bail shall also be exonerated by the death of the
defendant, or his imprisonment in a territorial prison ; or by his legal
discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the pro
cess.
Sec. 182. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff
shall file the order of arrest in the office of the clerk of the court
in which the action is pending, with his return endorsed thereon,
together with a copy or the undertaking of the bail. The original
undertaking he shall retain in his possession, until filed as herein pro
vided. The plaintiff, within ten days thereafter, may serve upon the
sheriff a notice that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed
to have accepted them, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from
liability. If no notice be served within ten days, the original under
taking shall be filed with the clerk of the court.
Sec. 183. Within five days after receipt of notice, the sheriff or
defendant may give to the plaintiff, or his attorney, notice of the
justification of the same, or other bail (specifying the place of resi
dence and occupation of the latter), before a judge of the court, or
clerk thereof, or probate judge, at a specified time and place ; the
time to be not less than five nor more then ten days thereafter,
except by consent of parties. In case other bail be given, there
shall be a new undertaking.
Sec. 184. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows :
First. Each of them shall be a resident and householder, or free
holder, within the county.
Second. Each shall be worth the amount specified in the order of
arrest, or the amount to which the order is reduced, as provided in
this chapter, over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive
of property exempt from execution ; but the judge or clerk, on
justification, may allow more than two sureties to justify severally,
in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the whole
justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail.
Sec. 135. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall
attend before the judge or clerk, at the time and place mentioned in
the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintiff,
touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the judge or clerk, in his
discretion, may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to
writing, and subscribed by the bail if required by the plaintiff.
Sec. 136. If the judge or clerk shall find the hail sufficient, he shall
annex the examination to the undertaking, endorse his allowance
thereon, and cause them to be filed, and the sheriff shall thereupon be
exonerated from liability.
Sec. 187. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead
of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the
order. In case the amount of bail be reduced, as provided in this chapter, the defendant may deposit such amount instead of giving
bail. In either case, the sheriff shall give the defendant a certificate
of the deposit made, and the defendant shall be discharged out of
custody.
Sec. 138. The sheriff shall, immediately after the deposit, pay the
same into court, and take from the clerk receiving the same two
certificates of such payment, the one of which he shall deliver or trans
mit to the plaintiff or his attorney, and the other to the defendant.
For any default in making such payment, the same proceedings
may be had on the official bond of the sheriff to collect the sum
deposited as in other cases of delinquency.
Sec. 139. If money be deposited as provided in the last two sections, bail may be given and may justify upon notice, at any
time before judgment; and on the filing of the undertaking and
justification with the clerk, the money deposited shall be refunded by
such clerk to the defendant.
Sec. 140. Where money shall have been deposited, if it, remain
on deposit at the time of recovery of a judgment in favor of the
plaintiff, the clerk shall, under the direction of the court, apply the
same in satisfaction thereof; and after satisfying the judgment, shall
refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the judgment be in
favor of the defendant, the clerk shall, under the direction of the
court, refund him the whole sum deposited and remaining unap
plied.
Sec. 141. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be
rescued, the sheriff shall himself be liable as bail, but he may dis
charge himself from such liability by the giving and justification of bail
at any time before judgment.
Sec. 142. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff upon
his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatis
fied in whole or in part, the same proceeding may be had on his
official bond, for the recovery of the whole or any deficiency, as in
other cases of delinquency.
Sec. 148. A defendant arrested may, at any time before justifica
tion of bail, apply to the judge who made the order, or the court in
which the action is pending, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff,
to vacate the order of arrest or to reduce the amount of bail. If
the application be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant,
but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits,
or other proofs in addition to those on which the order of arrest
was made.
Sec. 144. If, upon such application, it shall satisfactorily appear
that there was not sufficient cause for the arrest, the order shall be
vacated ; or if it satisfactorily appear that the bail was fixed too
high, the amount shall be reduced.
Sec. 145. Every person confined in jail on an execution issued
on a judgment rendered in a civil action, shall be discharged there
from upon the conditions hereinafter specified.
Sec. 146. Such person shall cause notice in writing to be given
to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, that at a certain time and
place he will apply to the district or probate judge of the county in
which such person may be confined, for the purpose of obtaining a
discharge from his imprisonment.
Sec. 147. Such notice shall be served upon the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney, one day at least before the hearing of the application-
If the plaintiff be not a resident of the county, and have no agent
or attorney in the county, no such notice need be served.
Sec. 148. At the time and place specified in the notice, such
person shall be taken before such judge, who shall examine him
under oath, concerning his estate and property and effects, and the
disposal thereof, and his ability to pay the judgment for which he is
committed ; and such judge shall also hear any other legal and
pertinent evidence that may be produced by the debtor or creditor.
Sec. 149. If, upon examination, the judge be satisfied that the
prisoner' is entitled to his discharge, such judge shall administer to
him the following oath: . "I, , do solemnly swear (or
affirm) that I have not any estate, real or personal, to the amount
of fifty dollars, except such as is by law exempted from being taken
on execution ; and that I have not any other estate now conveyed or
concealed, or in any way disposed of, with design to secure the same
to my use, or to defraud my creditors."
Sec. 150. After administering the oath, the judge shall issue an
order that the prisoner be discharged from custody, if he be imprisoned
for no other cause ; and the officer upon receiving service of such order,
shall discharge the prisoner forthwith, if he be imprisoned for no other
cause.
Sec. 151. If such judge should not discharge the prisoner, he may
apply for his discharge at the end of every succeeding ten days, in
the same manner as above provided, and the same proceedings shall
thereupon be had.
Sec. 152. The prisoner, after being so discharged, shall be for
ever exempt from arrest and imprisonment for the same debt, but
the judgment against him shall remain in full force against any
estate, present or future, of the prisoner, not exempt from execution.
Sec. 153. The plaintiff in the action may, at any time, order the
prisoner to be discharged, and he shall not thereafter be liable to
imprisonment for the same cause of action.
Sec. 154. The plaintiff, in an action to recover possession .of per
sonal property, may, at the time of issuing summons, or at any time
before answer, claim the delivery of such property to him as provided
in this chapter.
Sec. 155. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made by
the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, showing :
First. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed, par
ticularly describing it, or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof.
Second. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
Third. The alleged cause of the detention thereof according to his
best knowledge, information and belief.
Fourth. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
fine, pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution or an attach
ment against the property of the plaintiff ; or, if so seized, that it is
by the statute exempt from such seizure ; and,
Fifth. The actual value of the property.
Sec. 156. The plaintiff or his attorney may thereupon, by an
endorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the
county where the property claimed may be to take the same from the
defendant.
Sec. 157. Upon receipt of the affidavit and notice, with a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, approved by
the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound to the defendant in double
the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution
of the action without delay and with effect, and for the return of the
property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the
payment to him of such sum as may from any cause be recovered
against the plaintiff, the sheriff shall forthwith take the property
described in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or
his agent, and retain it in his custody.
He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the
affidavit, notice, and undertaking, by delivering the same to him per
sonally, if he can be found, or to his agent, from whose possession the
'property is taken ; or, if neither can be found, by leaving them at the
usual place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age and
discretion; or, if neither have any known place. of abode, by putting
them in the nearest post office, directed to the defendant.
Sec. 158. The defendant may, within two days after the service of
a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff that
he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he
shall be deemed to have waived all objections to them. When the
defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice, in like manner
as upon bail on arrest ; and the sheriff shall be responsible for the
sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to them is either waived,
as above provided, or until they justify. If the defendant except to
the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property, as provided in the next section.
Sec. 159. In all cases when a judgment shall be rendered in an
action to recover the possession of personal property for the return
thereof, or its value in case a return cannot be had, it shall be the duty
of the party against whom such judgment shall be rendered to return
the same in as good condition as the same was when possession thereof
was taken by him.
Sec. 160. In case such property shall, while in the possession of
the party against whom such judgment shall be rendered, or while the
same shall be unlawfully detained from the party entitled to the pos
session thereof, be materially injured or lessened in value by use or
otherwise, then a return or offer to return the same shall not be
deemed a compliance with the undertaking given for its return, but an
action may be maintained for the value thereof as assessed by the
jury or court, and damages for its detention.
Sec. 161. In case such action to recover possession of personal
Eroperty shall be brought against any sheriff or other officer who may
ave levied upon and seized the same under authority of any attach
ment or other process, and judgment shall be rendered in favor of such
officer for the return of the property, the party against whom such
judgment shall be rendered may nevertheless make return of said
property, notwithstanding the same may have been injured or lessened
m value, and thereupon it shall be the duty of such officer to imme
diately advertise the same for sale as in cases of sales of personal
property under execution, and apply the proceeds of the sale thereof,
after paying the costs, towards the payment and satisfaction of any
judgment that may have been rendered.
Sec. 162. Such second taking of such property referred to in the
preceding section shall not release or discharge the sureties on any
undertaking given for the return of such property, but an action may
be maintained on such undertaking and recovery thereon had, unless
the property shall have been actually returned in accordance with the
judgment rendered.
Sec. 163. At any time before the delivery of the property to the
plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the
plaintiff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect
that they are bound in double the value of the property, as stated in
the affidavit of the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if
such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as
may for any cause be recovered against the defendant. If a return of
the property be not so required within five days after the taking and
service of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiff,
except as provided in section 168.
Sec. 164. The defendant's sureties, upon notice to the plaintiff of
not less than two nor more than five days, shall justify before a judge
or clerk, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest ; and upon such
justification the sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant.
The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant's sureties until they
justify, or until the justification is completed or expressly waived, and
may retain the property until that time ; but if they, or others in thenplace,
fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he shall deliver
the property to the plaintiff.
Sec. 165. The qualification of sureties and their justification shall
be such as are prescribed by this act in respect to bail upon an order
of arrest.
Sec. 166. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a
building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery ; if
it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken
open, and take the property into his possession ; and if necessary, he
may call to his aid the power of his county.
Sec. 167. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the
Earty entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and
is necessary expenses for keeping the same.
Sec. 168. If the property taken be claimed by any other person
than the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto, or right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of
such title or right, and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff
shall not be bound to keep the property or deliver it to the plaintiff,
unless the plaintiff, on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the
sheriff against such claim by an undertaking by two sufficient sureties,
accompanied by their affidavits that they are each worth double the
value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the plaintiff, over
and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from
execution, and are freeholders or householders in the county ; and no
claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or his
agent shall be valid against the sheriff, unless so made.
Sec. 169. The sheriff shall file the notice, undertaking, and affida
vit, with his proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which
the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the property
mentioned therein.
Sec. 170. An injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to
refrain from a particular act. The order or writ may be granted by the
court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, and when
made by a judge may be enforced as the order of the court.
Sec. 171. An injunction may be granted in the following cases :
First. When it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintiff is
entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof,
consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act com
plained of, either for a limited period or pepetually.
Second. When it shall appear by the complaint or affidavit that the
commission or continuance of some act during the litigation would
produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintiff.
Third. When it shall appear during the litigation that the defend
ant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffer
ing to be done, some act in violation of the plaintiff's rights
respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the judg
ment ineffectual.
Sec. 172. The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing the
summons upon the complaint, and at any time afterwards, before
judgment, upon affidavits. The complaint in the one case, and the
affidavits in the other, shall show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds
exist therefor. No injunction shall be granted on the complaint unless
it be verified by the oath of the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, that
he, the person making the oath, has read the complaint, or heard the
complamt read, and knows the contents thereof, and the same is true
of his own knowledge, except the matters therein stated on information
and belief, and that as to those matters he believes it to be true.
When granted on the complaint, a copy of the complaint and verifica
tion attached shall be served with the injunction ; when granted upon
affidavit, a copy of the affidavit shall be served with the injunction.
Sec. 178. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant
has answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order to show cause ; but
in such case the defendant may be restrained until the decision of the
court or judge granting or refusing the injunction.
Sec. 174. On granting an injunction, the court or judge must re
quire, except the people of the Territory are a party plaintiff, a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with sufficient sureties, to
the effect that the plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined such damages,
not exceeding an amount to be specified, as such party may sustain by
reason of the injunction, if the court finally decide that the plaintiff
was not entitled thereto.
Within five days after the filing of the undertaking required, the
defendant may except to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fails to do
so, he is deemed to have waived all objections to them.
When excepted to, the plaintiff's sureties, upon notice to the defend
ant of not less than two nor more than five days, must justify before a
judge or county clerk, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest, and
upon failure to justify, or if others in their place fail to justify at the
time and place appointed, the order granting an injunction shall be
dissolved.
Sec. 175. If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant,
or any of several defendants, should be heard before granting the
injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be shown at a
specified time and place, why the injunction should not be granted,
and the defendant may in the meantime be restrained.
Sec. 176. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary busi
ness of a corporation shall not be granted except by the court or a
judge thereof ; nor shall it be granted without due notice of the applica
tion therefor to the proper officers or managing agent of the corpora
tion, except when the people of this Territory are a party to the pro
ceedings.
Sec. 177. If an injunction be granted without notice, the defendant,
at any time before the trial, may apply, upon reasonable notice, to
the judge who granted the injunction, or to the court in which the
action is brought, to dissolve or modify the same. The application may
be made upon the complaint and the affidavit on which the injunction
was granted, or upon affidavit on part of defendant, with or without
the answer. If the application be made upon affidavit on part of
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by
affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which the injunc
tion was granted.
Sec. 178. If, upon such application, it satisfactorily appear that
there is not sufficient ground for the injunction, it shall be dissolved ;
or, if it satisfactorily appear that the extent of the injunction is too great,
it shall be modified.
Sec. 179. The plaintiff at the time of issuing the summons, or at
any time afterwards, may have the property of the defendant not
exempt from execution attached as security for the satisfaction of any
judgment that may be recovered in said action, unless the defendant
give good and sufficient security to secure the payment of said judg
ment : Provided, That no writ of attachment shall be issued until the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall file with the clerk an affidavit
showing that the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff upon a contract,
express or implied, for the payment of money, gold dust, or other
property then due, which is not secured by a mortgage lien, or pledge
upon real or personal property, or is so secured that the security has
become insufficient by the act of the defendant, or by any means has
become nugatory.
Sec. 180. Before issuing the writ the clerk shall require a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with two or more sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the clerk, in a sum not less than double
the amount claimed by the plaintiff, to the effect that if the defendant
recover judgment, or if the court shall finally decide that the plaintiff
was not entitled to an attachment, the plaintiff will pay all costs that
may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages he may sustain by
reason of the wrongful suing out of the attachment, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking. Said sureties may be required to
justify before the clerk of the court to the effect that each, for himself,
is worth the amount specified in the undertaking, over and above his
debts and liabilities, and property by law exempt from execution in the
Territory of Montana : Provided, That when the amount claimed by
the plaintiff shall be one thousand dollars, or any sum under one
thousand dollars, the said undertaking shall be in a sum not less than
double the amount claimed: Provided, also, When the amount claimed
in the affidavit of the plaintiff equals or exceeds the sum of three
thousand dollars, the undertaking may be executed by two or more
sureties, and they may state in their affidavits that they are severally
worth amounts less than that expressed in the undertaking, if the
whole amount is equivalent to that of two sufficient sureties : Provided,
also, That if such amount claimed by plaintiff in the affidavit, equals
or exceeds the sum of ten thousand dollars, an undertaking shall only
be required in the sum of ten thousand dollars.
Sec. 181. Actions may be commenced, and writs of attachment
issued, upon any debt for the payment of money or specific property,
before the same shall have become due, when it shall appear by the
affidavit, in addition to what -is required in section 179 of this act, first,
that the defendant is leaving, or is about to leave this Territory, taking
with him or her property, moneys, or other effects, which might be
subjected to the payment of the debt, for the purpose of defrauding his
creditors ; or, second, that the defendant is disposing of his property
or is about to dispose of his property subject to execution, for the
purpose of defrauding his creditors : Provided, That any judgment
obtained under the provisions of this section shall be with a rebatement
of the interest from the time said judgment is rendered until the time
at which said debt would have become due : And provtfed, also, That
the defendant may, by a plea, put in issue the matter alleged in the
affidavit herein required, and if the plaintiff fail to substantiate some
one of the causes required to be alleged in said affidavit, the suit for
debt or debts not due shall abate.
Sec. 182. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any county in
which property of such defendant may be, and require him to attach
and safely keep all the property of such defendant within his county,
not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to
satisfy the plaintiff's demand, the amount of which shall be stated in
conformity with the complaint, unless the defendant deposit the
amount or give him security by the undertaking of at least two suf
ficient sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides
costs, or in an amount equal to the value of the property which has
been or is about to be attached, in which case, to take such undertaking,
several writs may be issued at the same time to the sheriffs of
different counties.
Sec. 183. The rights of shares which the defendant may have in
the stock of any corporation or company, together with the interest
and profits thereon, and all debts due such defendant, and all other
property in this Territory of such defendant not exempt from execution,
may be attached, and, if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the
judgment and execution.
Sec. 184. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered
shall execute the same without delay, and if the undertaking mentioned
in section 182 be not given, as follows :
First. Real property standing upon the records of the county in the
name of the defendant, shall be attached by filing a copy of the writ,
together with a description of the property attached, with the recorder
of the county.
Second. Real property, or any interest therein, belonging to the
defendant, and held by any other person, or standing upon the records
of the county in the name of any other person (but belonging to the
defendant), shall be attached by leaving such person or his agent a
copy of the writ and a notice that such real property (giving a descrip
tion thereof), and any interest therein belonging to the defendant, are
attached, pursuant to such writ, and filing a copy of such writ and
notice with the recorder of the county.
Third. Personal property capable of manual delivery shall be
attached by taking it into custody.
Fourth. Stock or shares, or any interest in stock or shares, of any
corporation or company, shall be attached by leaving with the presi
dent or other head of the same, or the secretary or cashier of the
same, or other managing agent thereof, a copy of the writ, and a notice
stating that the stock or interest of defendant is attached in pursuance
of such writ.
Fifth. Debts and credits, and other personal property no, capable'
of manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the person owing
such debts, or having in his possession or under his control such
credits and other personal property, or with his agent, a copy of the
writ, and a notice that the debts owing by him to the defendant, or the
credits and other personal property in his possession, or under his con
trol, belonging to the defendant, are attached in pursuance of such writ.
Sec. 185. It shall be the duty of the county recorder to file and
safely keep such copy of the writ and description of the, property, sub
ject to the inspection of all persons ; and such recorder shall receive a
fee of twenty-five cents for such filing and safe keeping of said list, to
be paid by the plaintiff in the action and taxed and allowed to him as
other costs and disbursements in the action.
Sec. 186. Upon receiving information in writing from the plaintiff
or his attorney that any person has in his possession, or under his
control, any credits or other personal property belonging to the defend
ant, or is owing any debt to the defendant, the sheriff shall serve upon
such person a copy of the writ, and a notice that such credits or other
property or debts, as the case may be, are attached in pursuance of
such writ.
Sec. 187. All persons having in their possession, or under their con
trol, any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant,
or owing any debts to the defendant at the time of service upon them
of a copy of the writ and notice as provided in the last section, shall
be, unless such property be delivered up or transferred, or such debts be
paid to the sheriff, liable to the plaintiff for the amount of such
credits, property, or debts, until the attachment be discharged, or any
judgment recovered by him be satisfied.
Sec. 188. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having in his
Eossession, or under his control, any credits or other personal property
elonging to the defendant, may be required to attend before the court
or judge, or a referee appointed by the court or judge, and be examined
on oath respecting the same. The defendant may also be required to
attend for the purpose of giving information respecting his property,
and may be exammed on oath. The court or judge may, after such
examination, order personal property capable of manual delivery to be
delivered to the sheriff upon such terms as may be just, having
reference to any liens thereon, or claims against the same, and a mem
orandum to be given of all other personal property, containing the
amount and description thereof.
Sec. 189. The sheriff shall make a full inventory of the property
attached, and return the same with the writ. To enable him to make
such return as to debts and credits attached, he shall request, at the
time of service, the party owing the debt, or having the credit, to give
him a memorandum, stating the amount and description of each ; and
if such memorandum be refused, he shall return the fact of refusal
with the writ. The party refusing to give the memorandum may be
required to pay the costs of any proceedings taken for the purpose of
obtaining information respecting the amount and description of such
debt or credit.
Sec. 190. If any of the property attached be perishable, the sheriff
shall seU the same in the manner in which such property is sold on
execution. The proceeds, and other property attached by him, shall be
retained by him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in the
action, unless sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment
recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits
attached may be collected by him, if the same can be done without suit.
The sheriffs' receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount paid.
Sec. 191. If any personal property attached be claimed under oath
by a third party as his property, the sheriff shall deliver the property
to such third party within five (5) days, if the plaintiff resides within
the county, otherwise ten days, after notice to plaintiff's attorney,
unless that plaintiff give to the sheriff good and sufficient bond to
indemnify him against loss or damage by reason of holding such
property.
Sec. 192. If judgment be recovered by the plaintiff, the sheriff shall
satisfy the same out of the property attached by him, which has not
been delivered to the defendant, or claimant, as hereinbefore provided,
or subjected to execution on another judgment recovered previous to
the issuing of the attachment, if it be sufficient for that purpose, first,
by paying the plaintiff the proceeds of all sales of perishable property
sold by him, or any debts or credits collected by him, or so much ,-^s
shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment ; second, if any balance
remain due, and an execution shall have been issued on the judgment,
he shall sell, under the execution, so much of the property, real or
personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that
purpose remain in his hands. Notices of the sales shall be given and
the sales conducted as in other cases of sales on execution.
Sec.193. If, after selling all the property attached by him remain
ing in his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with the proceeds
of any debts or credits collected by nim, deducting his fees, to the pay
ment of the judgment, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff shall
proceed to collect such balance as upon an execution in other cases.
Whenever the judgment shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reason
able demand, shall deliver over to the defendant the attached property
remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of the property attached
unapplied on the judgment.
Sec. 194. If the execution be returned unsatisfied in whole or in
part, the plaintiff may prosecute any undertaking given pursuant to section 197, or he may proceed as in other cases, upon the return of
an execution.
Sec. 195. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintiff,
any undertaking received in the action, all the proceeds of sales and
money collected by the sheriff, and all the property attached remaining
in the sheriff's hands, shall be delivered to the defendant or his agent.
The order of attachment shall be discharged and the property released
therefrom.
Sec. 196. The defendant may, at any time, release any property in
his hands to the sheriff, by virtue of any writ of attachment, by exe
cuting an undertaking as provided for in the next section; and all
proceeds of sales and money collected by the sheriff, and all the prop
erty attached remaining in his hands, shall be released from the attach
ment and delivered to the defendant, upon the justification of the
sureties and the undertaking.
Sec. 197. Before releasing such attached property, as aforesaid, to
the defendant, the sheriff shall require an undertaking executed by the
defendant, and at least two sureties, residents and freeholders, or
householders in the county, to the effect that in case the plaintiff
recover judgment in the action, defendant will, on demand, redeliver
such attached property so released to the proper officer, to be applied
to the payment of the judgment, and that in default "chereof, the
defendant and sureties will pay to the plaintiff the full value of the
property so released. The sheriff may fix the sum for which the under
taking shall be executed, and if necessary, in fixing such sum. to know
the value of the property released, the same may be appraised by three
disinterested persons, to be appointed by the sheriff ; and if any sheriff
shall release any property held by him, under or by virtue of any writ
of attachment, without first taking such bond as herein required, or
shall take an insufficient bond, he and his sureties shall be liable for
the value of such property so released.
Sec. 198. The defendant may also, at any time before the time for
answering expires, apply, on motion, upon reasonable notice to the
plaintiff, to the court in which the action is brought, or the judge thereof,
that the attachment be discharged on the ground that the writ was
improperly issued.
Sec. 199. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by
affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which the order of
attachment was made.
Sec. 200. If, upon such application, it shall satisfactorily appear
that the writ of attachment was improperly issued, it shall be dis
charged.
Sec. 201. The sheriff shall return the writ of attachment with the
summons, if issued at the same time, otherwise within twenty days
after its receipt, with a certificate of his proceedings endorsed thereon
or attached thereto.
Sec. 202. All liens by attachment shall accrue at the time the
property of the defendant shall be attached by the officer charged with
the execution of the writ, in the order in which they are levied ; and
said liens shall not be affected by any subsequent attachment, or by
any judgment obtained subsequent thereto: Provided, That if two or
more attachments shall be levied upon the same property at the same
time, they shall share pro rata in the proceeds of said property ; but in
all cases the first attachment levied shall be first satisfied : Provided,
further, That the first writ placed in the hands of the officer shall be
levied first.
Sec. 203. There shall be kept in the recorder's office of the county
recorder of each county, a book called "Attachment Book," in which
shall be entered by such recorder, in alphabetical form, the names of
anyjperson or persons against whom any writ or notice of attachment
has Deen filed in his office ; there shall also be entered in said book the
time such writ was filed. Such entries shall be made under appro
priate heads for that purpose. For making such entry the recorder
shall receive twenty-five cents, to be paid by the plaintiff in the action,
and taxed and allowed to him as other costs and disbursements in the
action.
CHAPTER V.
ATTACHMENT OF BOATS.
Sec. 204. For what boats may be attached.
Sec. 205. Claims that are liens upon boats.
Sec. 206. Priority of liens.
Sec. 207. Limitation of actions against boats.
Sec. 208. When lien to attach.
Sec. 209. LiaJnlity of rafts,- proceedings same as against boats.
Sec. 210. Proceedings, how commenced.
Sec. 211. Description of boat.
Sec. 212. Summons, how served.
Sec. 218. Who may serve summons.
Sec. 214. Who may appear for defendant; no continuance granted plaintiff.
Sec. 215. Boat may be discharged before judgment, by giving bond.
Sec. 216. Execution, against boat.
Sec. 217. What officer may sell to satisfy execution.
Sec. 218. Status of purchaser of fractional interest.
Sec. 2^9. Plaintiff's right to otherwise sue not affected.
Sec. 220. Sufficient allegation that services were rendered boat.
Sec. 204. Any boat found within the waters of this Territory is
liable —
First. For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent, clerk,
or consignee thereof, on account of supplies furnished for the use of
such boat, or on account of work done or materials furnished in
building, repairing, fitting out, furnishing, or equipping such boat.
Second. For all demands or damages accruing from the non-per
formance or mal-performance of any contract of affreightment, or any
contract relative to the transportation of persons or property, entered
into by the master, owner, agent, clerk, or consignee thereof.
Third. For all injuries to persons or property by such boat, or by
the officers or crew, done in connection with the business of such boat.
Sec. 205. Claims growing out of any of the above causes are liens
upon such boat, its apparel, tackling, furniture, and appendages,
including barges and fighters, if owned by the owners of such Tboat, and
used therewith, at the time suit is commenced.
Sec. 206. Such hens shall take preference of any claim against the
boat itself, or any or all of its owners, growing out of any other causes
than those above enumerated, and as between themselves they shall be
preferred in the following order :
First. Those resulting from wages for services on board such boat
within the year then passed : Providing, That suit is brought within
twenty days after the cessation of such labor.
Second. Those resulting from contracts made within this Territory.
Third. All other causes. *
Sec. 207. Actions against boats under the provisions of this act
shall not be brought after the lapse of one year from the time the
cause of action accrued.
Sec. 208. The lien shall attach from the commencement of suit,
subject only to such other liens as are of a preferred class.
Sec. 209. Any raft found in any of the waters of this Territory shall
be liable for all debts contracted by the owner, clerk, pilot, or agent
thereof, on account of work done or services rendered for such raft.
Claims growing out of either of the above causes shall be liens upon
the raft, its tackling and appendages, for the term of twenty days from
the time the right thereof accrued, and the same rules shall govern,
and the same process shall be had, that are prescribed for similar liens
against boats.
Sec. 210. Any person desiring to take the benefit of this act shall
file with any judge or clerk of any court, or justice of the peace, having
jurisdiction, a complaint in writing, duly verified by the plaintiff, or his
agent or attorney, which complaint shall show that the plaintiff is
entitled to the benefit of this act ; whereupon such judge, clerk, or jus
tice of the peace, shall issue his warrant to the proper officer,
commanding him to seize the boat, its tackling, apparel, furniture, and
appendages, and detain the same until released by due course of law.
Sec. 211. The complaint shall describe the boat by name as defend
ant, but if it have no name, then by such description as will enable the
officer attaching to seize the proper property.
Sec. 212. The usual summons shall be issued, directed to the boat
by name, or to the property to be attached, if no name appear, and be
served upon the master, owner, clerk, agent, or consignee thereof, and
if none of them can be found, by posting up a copy in some conspicu
ous part of the boat, or property to be attached.
The warrant shall be served according to the directions it contains.
Sec. 218. Any sheriff, constable or city marshal, or marshal of the
Territory, may serve the warrant and summons above mentioned,
whether the same issue from the office of the clerk, or from a judge or
justice of the peace, and any clerk, judge or justice may in his discre
tion appoint any suitable person to serve such summons and warrant,
who shall have all the power of a sheriff in the premises.
Sec. 214. Any master, agent, clerk, consignee, or other person
interested in the boat, may appear by himself, his agent, or attorney,
for the defendant, and conduct the defence of the suit, and no con
tinuance shall be granted to the plaintiff while the boat is in custody.
Sec. 215. The boat may be discharged at any time before final
judgment, by giving bonds with at least two sureties, to be approved by
the officer serving the warrant, or by the clerk, judge, or justice who
issued it, in a penalty double the plaintiff 's demand and costs, con
ditioned that the obligors will pay the amount found due to the
plaintiff with costs.
Sec. 216. If judgment be rendered against the boat before it is dis
charged, as provided in the last section, execution shall be issued
against it, together with its apparel, tackling, furniture, and appendages.
Sec. 217. The officer may sell any of the furniture and appendages
of the boat, if by doing so he can satisfy the demand ; if he sell the
boat itself he must sell it to the bidder who will advance the amount
necessary to satisfy the execution for the lowest fractional share of the
boat, unless the person appearing for the boat require a different and
equally convenient mode of sale.
Sec. 218. If fractional share of the boat be thus sold, the purchaser
shall hold such share or interest jointly with the owners.
Sec. 219. Nothing herein contained shall affect the right of a
plaintiff to sue in the same manner as though this act had not been
enacted.
Sec. 220. It shall be sufficient for the plaintiff to allege in his com
plaint or affidavit, that the services were rendered or material was
furnished the boat by its name.
CHAPTEB VI.
KECEIVERS.
Sec. 221. In what cases the court may appoint a receiver.
Sec. 222. Upon the dissolution of a corporation the court may appoint a
receiver.
Sec. 223. A party or attorney not to be appointed without consent of
parties; ex parte application.
Sec. 23A. Oath and undertaking of receiver.
Sec. 225. Powers of receiver.
Sec. 226. Funds in receiver's hands may be invested by consent.
Sec. 221. A receiver may be appointed by the court in which an
action is pending, or by the judge thereof :
First. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of
property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim,
or between partners or others jointly owning or interested in any
property or fund, on the application of the plaintiff, or of any party
whose right to, or interest in, the property or fund, or the proceeds
thereof, is probable, and where it is shown that the property or fund is
in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured.
Second. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of his
mortgage and sale of the mortgaged property, where it appears that
the mortgaged property is in danger of being lost, removed or
materially injured, or that the condition of the mortgage has not
been performed, and that the property is probably insufficient to
discharge the mortgage debt.
Third. After judgment to carry the judgment into effect.
Fourth. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to
the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal,
or in proceedings in aid of execution, when an execution has been
returned unsatisfied, or when the judgment debtor refuses to apply his
property in satisfaction of the judgment.
Fifth. In cases when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insol
vent or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate
rights.
Sixth. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been
appointed by the usages of courts of equity.
Sec. 222. Upon the dissolution of any corporation, the district
courts of the county in which the corporation carries on its business, or
has its principal place of business, on application of any creditor of
the corporation, or of any stockholder or member thereof, may appoint
one or more persons to be receivers or trustees of the corporation, to
take charge of the estate and effects thereof, and to collect the debts
and property due and belonging to the corperation, and to pay the out
standing indebtedness thereof, and to divide the moneys and other
property that shall remain over, among the stockholders or members.
Sec. 223. No party or attorney, or person interested in an action,
can be appointed receiver therein, without the written consent of the
parties, filed with the clerk. If a receiver be appointed upon an ex
parte application, the court, before making the order, may require from
the applicant an undertaking with sufficient sureties, in an amount to
be fixed by the court, to the effect that the applicant will pay to the
defendant all damages he may sustain by reason of the appointment of
such receiver, and the entry by him upon his duties, in case the appli
cant shall have procured such appointment wrongfully, maliciously, or
without sufficient cause, and the court may in its discretion, at any
time after said appointment, require an additional undertaking.
Sec. 224. Before entering upon his duties the receiver must be
sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or more sureties,
approved by the court or judge, execute an undertaking to such person,
and in such sum as the court or judge may direct, to the effect that he
will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and obey
the orders of the court therein.
Sec. 225. The receiver has, under the control of the court, power
to bring and defend actions in his own name, as receiver ; to take and
keep possession of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, to
compound for and compromise the same ; to make transfers, and
generally to do such acts respecting the property as the court may
authorize.
Sec. 226. Funds in the hands of a receiver may be invested upon
interest by order of the court; but no such order can be made
except upon the consent of all the parties to the action.
CHAPTER VII.
DEPOSIT IN COURT.
Sec. 227. When money deposited in court.
Sec. 228. Disposition of money deposited.
Sec. 229. Power of court when order to deposit money disobeyed.
Sec. 227. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a
party that he has in his possession or under his control any money or
other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of litigation,
is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due
to another party, the court may order the same, upon motion, to be
deposited in court or delivered to such party, upon such conditions as
may be just, subject to the further direction of the court.
Sec. 228. If the money is deposited in court it must be paid to the
clerk, who must deposit it with the county treasurer, by him to be held
subject to the order of the court. For the safe keeping of the money
deposited with him the treasurer is liable on his official bond.
Sec. 229. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court has
ordered a deposit or delivery jof money or other thing, and the order is
disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience, may make an
order requiring the sheriff to take the money or thing and deposit or
deliver it in conformity with the direction of the court.
TITLE VIII.
JUDGMENTS IN GENERAL.
CHAPTER 1.
Sec. 230. Judgment defined.
Sec. 231. May be given far or against one or more of either parties.
Sec. 232. Judgment against one or mere defendants, and action as to
others.
Sec. 233. What relief granted plaintiff.
Sec. 234. Dismissal of action or non-suit entered, when.
Sec. 235. Judgment upon tlie merits.
Sec. 230. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the
parties in an action or proceeding.
Sec. 231. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of
several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants,
and it may, when the justice of the case requires it, determine the
ultimate rights of the parties on each side as between themselves.
Sec. 232. In an action against several defendants the court may, in
its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving
the action to proceed against the others whenever a several judgment
is proper.
Sec. 233. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no answer,
shall not exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint ;
but in any other case the court may grant him any relief consistent
with the case made by the complaint and embraced within the issue.
Sec. 234. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment of a non-suit
entered, in the following cases :
First. By the plaintiff himself at any time before the trial, upon
the payment of costs, if a counter claim has not been made. If a
provisional remedy has been allowed, the undertaking shall thereupon
be delivered by the clerk to the defendant, who may have his action
thereon.
Second. By either party upon the written consent of the other.
Third. By the court, when the plaintiff fails to appear on the trial,
and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal.
Fourth. By the court, when, upon trial, and before the final sub
mission of the case, the plaintiff abandons it.
Fifth. By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when, upon
the trial, the plaintiff fails to prove a sufficient case for the jury.
The dismissal mentioned in the first two sub-divisions shall be made
by an entry in the clerk's register. Judgment may thereupon be
entered accordingly.
Sec. 235. In every case, other than those mentioned in the last section, the judgments shall be rendered upon the merits.
CHAPTER II.
JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.
Sec. 236. When judgment rendered upon defendant falling to answer.
Sec. 236. Judgment may be had if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows :
First. In an action arising upon a contract for the recovery of money
or damages only, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of the court
within the time specified in the summons, or such further time as may
have been granted, the clerk, upon the application of the plaintiff,
shall enter the default of the defendant, and immediately thereafter
enter judgment for the amount specified in the summons, including
the costs, against the defendant, or against one or more of several
defendants, in the cases provided for in Section 75.
Second. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with the clerk
within the time specified in the summons, or such further time as may
have been granted, the clerk shall enter the default of the defendant ;
and thereafter the plaintiff may apply at the first or any subsequent
term of the court for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the
taking of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable
the court to give judgment or to carry the judgment into effect, the
court may take the account or hear the proof ; or may, in its discre
tion, order a reference for that purpose ; and where the action is for
the recovery of damages in whole or in part, the court may order the
damages to be assessed by a jury ; or if, to determine the amount of
damages, the examination of a long account be necessary, by a refer
ence as above provided.
Third. In actions where the service of the summons was by publi
cation, the plaintiff, upon the expiration of the time designated in the
order of publication, may, upon proof of the publication, and that no
answer has been filed, apply for judgment ; and the court shall there
upon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the com
plaint, and if the defendant be not a resident of the Territory, shall
require the plaintiff or his agent to be examined on oath respecting
any payments that have been made to the plaintiff, or to any one for
his use, on account of such demand, and may render judgment for the
amount which he is entitled to recover.
Sec. 237. An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of law is main
tained by the one party and is controverted by the other. Issues are
of two kinds—first, of law ; and, second, of fact.
Sec. 238. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint
or answer, or replication, or to some part thereof.
Sec. 239. An issue of fact arises, first, upon a material allegation
in the complaint, controverted by the answer ; and, second, upon new
matter in the answer controverted by the replication, or upon new
matter in the replication, except an issue of law is joined thereon.
Sec. 240. An issue of law must be tried by the court, unless it is
referred upon consent.
Sec. 241. In actions for the recovery of specific real property with
or without damages, and for an injunction to stay waste, or for money
claimed as due upon contract, or as damages for breach of contract, or
for injuries, an issue of fact must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial
is waived, or a reference is ordered by consent of the parties. In all
cases where there are issues of both law and fact, the issues of law
must be first disposed of, and in all cases issues of fact must be tried
by a jury (except in actions which involve the settlement of accounts
between parties), unless a jury shall be waived by the parties.
Sec. 242. The clerk shall enter causes upon the calendar of the
court according to the date of the issue. Causes once placed upon the
calendar for a general or special term, if not tried or heard at such
term, shall remain upon the calendar from court to court until finally
disposed of.
Sec. 243. Either party may bring the issue to a trial, or to a hear
ing, and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court for good
cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal
of the action, or verdict, or a judgment, as the case may require.
Sec. 244. A motion to postpone a trial on grounds of the absence
of evidence, shall only be made upon affidavit showing the materiality
of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has
been used to procure it. The court may also require the moving party
to state upon affidavit the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if
the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given,
and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and
overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed; and upon
terms the court may, in its discretion, upon good cause shown, and in
furtherance of justice, postpone a trial or proceeding upon other
grounds than the absence of evidence.
Sec. 245. The party postponing a trial in any court of record, shall
also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of
any witness of such adverse party, who is in attendance, be then
taken, before any judge or clerk of the court in which the cause is
pending, or before a notary public, or other officer authorized to take
depositions, as the court may indicate, which shall accordingly be
done ; and the testimony so taken may be read on the trial with the
same effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the witness was
produced.
CHAPTER IV.
FORMATION OF THE JURY.
Sec. 246. Jury, how drawn. Of ivhat number to consist.
Sec. 247. Oath of jurors.
Sec. 248. Challenge of jurors.
Sec. 249. Grounds of challenge for cause.
Sec. 250. Challenge for cause, ftow tried.
Sec. 251. Order of cludlenge.
Sec. 252. Vacancy injury, how filled.
Sec. 246. When the action is called for trial by jury, the clerk shall
prepare separate ballots, containing the names of the jurors summoned
who have appeared and not been excused, and deposit them in a box.
He shall then draw from the box twelve names, and the persons whose
names are drawn shall constitute the jury. If the ballot becomes
exhausted before the jury is complete, or if from any cause a juror is
excused or discharged, the clerk shall, under the direction of the court,
draw from the box furnished by the county commissioners, as provided
by law, so many additional names as shall be necessary, in the manner
provided by law, and if the names in the box are exhausted before the
jury is complete, the sheriff shall summon, under the direction of the
court, from the citizens of the vicinity, and not from bystanders, so
many qualified persons as may be necessary to complete the jury. The
jury shall consist of twelve persons, unless the parties consent to a
less number. The parties may consent to any number not less than
three. Such consent shall be entered by the clerk in the minutes of
the trial.
Sec. 247. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or affirmation
shall be administered to the jurors, in substance : That they, each of
them, will well and truly try the matter at issue between , the
plaintiff, and , the defendant, and a true verdict render accord
ing to the evidence.
Sec. 248. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there
are seveaal parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before
it can be made. The challenge shall be to individual jurors, and shall
be either peremptory or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to
four peremptory challenges. Either party shall have the right to have
the whole jury sworn to answer questions as to their competency in
the first instance, and may examine them on any of the matters of
challenge for cause.
Sec. 249. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more of the
following grounds :
First. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to
render a person competent as a juror.
Second. Consanguinity or affinity within the third degree to either
party.
Third. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and
servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent, to either party, or
being a member of the family of either party, or a partner in business
with either party, or being security on any bond or obligation for either
party.
Fourth. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a previous
trial between the same parties for the same cause of action.
Fifth. Interest on the part of a juror in the event of the action, or
in the main question involved in the action, except the interest of the
juror as a member or citizen of a municipal corporation.
Sixth. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief
as to the merits of the action.
Seventh. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing
enmity against, or bias to, either party.
Sec. 250. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the court. The
juror challenged, and any other person, may be examined as a witness
on the trial of the challenge.
Sec. 251. The plaintiff first, and afterwards the defendant, shall
complete his challenges for cause ; they may then alternately, in the
same order, have the right to challenge peremptorily.
Sec. 252. After each challenge sustained, the vacancy shall be filled
before further challenges are made, and any new juror introduced may
be challenged for cause, or if the party shall not have exhausted the
number of peremptory challenges to which he is entitled, he may be
challenged peremptorily.
CHAPTER V.
CONDUCT OF THE TRIAL.
Sec. 253. Order of procedure on trial; instructions and exceptions thereto.
Sec. 254. Jury may view property or place.
Sec. 255. Proceeding if juror become sick.
Sec. 256. Retirement of jury, how kept together.
Sec. 257. What papers jury may take upon retiring.
Sec. 258. Disagreement of jury as to testimony or law.
Sec. 259. If no verdict, action tried again.
Sec. 260. Adjournment of court and sealed verdict.
Sec. 261. Proceedings when jury have agreed, and of ilie verdict and
polling the jury.
Sec. 262. How informal or insufficient verdict corrected.
Sec. 263. If jury separate, admonished by court.
Sec. 253. When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall proceed in
the following order, unless the court, for good cause and special
reasons, otherwise directs :
First. The party on whom rests the burden of the issues may briefly
state his case, and the evidence by which he expects to sustain it.
Second. The adverse party may then briefly state his defence, and
the evidence he expects to offer in support of it.
Third. The party on whom rests the burden of the issues must first
produce his evidence, the adverse party will then produce his evidence.
Fourth. The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence,
unless the court, for good reason, in furtherance of justice, permits
them to offer evidence in their original case.
Fifth. When the evidence is concluded, and either party desires
special instructions to be given to the jury, such instructions shall be
reduced to writing, numbered and signed by the party or his attorney
asking the same, and delivered to the court.
Sixth. When the argument of the cause is concluded, the court
shall give such instructions to the jury as may be necessary, which
instructions shall be in writing, and be numbered and signed by the
judge.
Seventh. Where either party asks special instructions to be given to
the jury, the court shall either give each instruction as requested, or
positively refuse to do so, or give the instruction with a modification,
and shall mark or endorse upon each instruction so offered in such
manner that it shall distinctly, appear what instructions were given in
whole or in part, and, in like manner those refused, so that either
party may except to the instructions as given or refused or modified,
or to the modification. All instructions given by the court must be
filed together with those refused, as a part of the record. If any party
to the trial desires to except to any instruction given by the court, or
to the refusal of the court to give an instruction asked for, or any
modification thereof, he shall reduce such exception to writing, and
file the same with the clerk before the cause is submitted to the
jury.
Sec. 254. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper for
the jury to have a view of the property which is the subject of litiga
tion, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order
them to be conducted in a body, under the charge of an officer, to the
place which shall be shown to them by some person appointed by the
court for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent no person
other than the person so appointed shall speak to them on any subject
connected with the trial.
Sec. 255. If, after the impannelling of a jury, and before verdict,
a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the court
may order him to be discharged. In that case the trial may proceed
with the other jurors, or a new jury may be sworn and the trial begun
anew ; or the jury be discharged and a new jury then or afterwards
impannelled.
Sec. 256. After hearing the charge, the jury may either decide in
court or retire in deliberation. If they retire they shall be kept
together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient place,
under the charge of one or more officers, until they agree upon their
verdict, or are discharged by the court. The officer shall, to the
utmost of his ability, keep the jury together, separate from other per
sons ; he shall not suffer any communication to be made to them, or
make any himself, unless by order of the court, except to ask them if
they have agreed upon their verdict, and he shall not, before the ver
dict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliber
ations, or the verdict agreed upon.
Sec. 257. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with
.them all papers, except depositions, accounts, or account-books, which
have been received as evidence in the case, or copies of such papers as
ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be taken from the person
having them in possession ; and they may also take with them notes of
the testimony or other proceedings on the trial taken by themselves, or
any of them, but none taken by any other person.
Sec. 258. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a
disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they
desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the cause, they
may require the officer to conduct them into court ; upon their being
brought into court the information required shall be given in presence
of, or after notice to, the parties or counsel.
Sec. 259. In all cases where a jury are discharged or prevented from
giving a verdict by reason of accident or other cause, during the
progress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the action
may be again tried, immediately or at a future time, as the court shall
direct.
Sec. 260. While the jury are absent the court may adjourn from
time to time, in respect to other business ; but it shall be nevertheless
deemed open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to
the jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. The court
may direct the jury to bring in a sealed verdict at the opening of the
court, in case of an agreement during a recess or adjournment for the
day. A final adjournment of the court for the term shall discharge
the jury.
Sec. 261. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict they must
be conducted into court, their names called by the clerk, and their ver
dict rendered by their foreman. The verdict must be in writing, signed
hy the foreman, and must be read by the clerk to the jury, and the
inquiry made whether it is their verdict. If any jurors disagree, they
must be sent out again ; but if no disagreement be expressed, and
neither party requires the jury to be polled, the verdict is complete and
the jury discharged from the case. Either party may require the jury
to be polled, which is done by the court or clerk asking each juror if it
is his verdict. If any one answers in the negative the jury must again
be sent out.
Sec. 262. If the verdict be informal or insufficient in not covering
the whole issue or issues submitted, or in any particular, the verdict
may be corrected by the jury under the advice of the court, or the jury
may be again sent out.
Sec. 263. If the jury are permitted to separate, either during the
trial or after the case is submitted to them, they shall be admonished
by the court that it is their duty not to converse with or suffer them
selves to be addressed by any other person on the subject of the trial,
and that it is their duty not to form or express an opinion thereon until
the case is finally submitted to them.
Sec. 264. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A gen
eral verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any
of the issues, either in favor of plaintiff or defendant ; a special verdict
is that by which the jury finds the facts only, leaving the judgment to
the court. The special verdict shall present the conclusion of fact as
established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them ; and
those conclusions of fact shall be so presented as that nothing shall
remain to the court but to draw from them conclusions of law.
Sec. 265. In an action for the recovery of money only, or specific
property, the jury, in their discretion may render a general or special
verdict. In all other cases the court may direct the jury to find a
special verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues ; and in all cases
may instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon par
ticular questions of fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a writ
ten finding thereon. The special verdict or finding shall be filed with
the clerk and entered upon the minutes. Where a special finding of
facts shall be inconsistent with the general verdict the former shall
control the latter, and the court shall give judgment accordingly.
Sec. 266. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in an action for
the recovery of money, or for the defendant when a counter claim for
the recovery of money is established, exceeding the amount of the
plaintiff's claim as established, the jury shall also find the amount of
the recovery.
Sec. 267. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property,
if the property has not been delivered to the plaintiff, or the defendant
by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in
favor of the plaintiff, or if, being in favor of the defendant, they also
find that he is entitled to a return thereof, shall find the value of the
property (but failure to find all the facts mentioned in this section shall
not invalidate the verdict), and may at the same time assess the dam
ages, if any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevail
ing party has sustained by reason of the taking or detention of such
property.
Sec. 268. Upon receiving a verdict an entry shall be made by the
clerk in the minutes of the court, specifying the time of trial, the names
of the jurors and witnesses, and the verdict ; and where a special ver
dict is found, either the judgment rendered thereon, or if the case be
reserved for argument or further consideration, the order thus reserv
ing it.
Sec. 269. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an
issue of fact in actions arising on contract or for the recovery of specific
real or personal property with or without damages, and with the assent
of the court, in other actions, in manner following :
First. By failing to appear at the trial.
Second. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the
clerk.
Third. By oral consent, in open court, entered in the minutes.
Sec. 270. Upon a trial of issue of fact by the court, judgment shall
be entered in accordance with the finding of the court, and the finding,
if required by either party, shall be reduced to writing and filed with
the clerk. In the finding filed, the facts found and the conclusions
of law shall be separately stated. In such cases no judgment shall be
reversed on appeal, for want of a finding in writing, at the instance of
any party who at the time of the submission of the • cause shall not
have requested a finding, in writing, and had such request entered in
the minutes of the court ; nor in cases tried by the court, by a com
missioner, or a referee, shall the judgment be reversed on appeal, for
defects in the finding ; and in cases of exceptions for defective findings,
the particular point or issue upon which the party requires a finding
to be made, or the particular defect to be remedied, shall be specific
ally and particularly designated; and upon failure of the court to
remedy, or, when tried by a commissioner or referee, to cause to be
remedied by such commissioner or referee, the alleged defect, the party
moving shall be entitled to his exceptions, and the same shall be set
tled by the judge as in- other cases: Provided, That such exceptions
shall be filed in the court and served on the attorney of the adverse party
within five days after receiving from or giving to the adverse party
written notice of the filing and finding: Provided, That when any
cause is tried and submitted upon a written statement of facts agreed to
by the parties or their attorneys, such statement shall have the effect
of a special verdict or finding of facts, and judgment shall be pronounced
thereon as upon a special verdict or finding of facts ; and in such case
no finding of facts shall be made unless such statement shall fail to
embrace all the facts proved and in issue, in which case any additional
fact may be found upon evidence which is not repugnant to the agreed
statement.
Sec. 271. On a judgment upon an issue of law, if the taking of an
account be necessary to enable the court to complete the judgment, a
reference may be ordered.
Sec. 272. On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an issue of law, he
may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two sub-divisions of Section 286, upon the failure of defendant to answer. If judgment be
for the defendant upon an issue of law, and the taking of an account or
the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to complete the
judgment, a reference may be ordered as in that section provided.
Sec. 273. A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of the
parties, filed with the clerk or entered on the minutes :
First. To try any or all of the issues in an action or proceeding,
whether of fact or of law, and to report a finding and judgment thereon.
Second. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to proceed
and determine a case.
Sec. 274. When the parties do not consent the court may, upon
application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the fol
lowing cases :
First. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of
a long account on either side ; in which case the referees may be directed
to hear and decide the whole issue, or report upon any specific question
of fact involved therein.
Second. When the taking of an account is necessary for the infor
mation of the court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or
order into effect.
Third. When a question of fact other than upon the pleading arises,
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action.
Fourth. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a
special proceeding.
Sec. 275. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not
exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do not
agree, the court or judge shall appoint one or more referees, not exceed
ing three, who reside in the county where the action or proceeding is
triable, and against whom there is no legal objection, or the reference
may be made to a court commissioner of the county where the cause
is pending. Every referee, before acting as such, shall take and sub
scribe an oath (or affirmation), before some authorized officer, which
shall be filed with the clerk of the court by which he is appointed, that
he will honestly, impartially and faithfully perform the duties of
referee in the action or matter referred to him, as required by law, to
the best of his knowledge and ability.
Sec. 276. Either party may object to the appointment of any per
son as referee on one or more of the following grounds :
First. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to
render a person competent as a juror.
Second. Consanguinity or affinity within the third degree to either
party.
Third. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and
servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent, to either party, or
being a member of the family of either party, or a partner in Dusiness
with either party, or being security on any bond or obligation for either
party.
Fourth. Having served as a juror or been a witness on any trial
between the same parties for the same cause of action.
Fifth. Interest on the part of such person in the event of the
action, or in the main question involved in the action.
Sixth. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief
as to the merits of the action.
Seventh. The existence of a state of mind in such person evincing
enmity against or bias to either party.
Sec. 277. The objection taken to the appointment of any person as
referee shall be heard and disposed of by the court. Affidavits may be
read and any person examined as a witness as to such objections.
Sec. 278. The referees or commissioner shall report their findings in
writing to the court within ten days (or within such further time as may
be allowed by the court) after the testimony shall have been closed and
the facts found, and the conclusions of law shall be separately stated
therein. The finding of the referees or commissioner upon the whole
issue shall stand as the finding of the court, and upon filing of the
finding with the clerk of the court judgment may be entered thereon in
the same manner as if the action had been tried by the court. The
finding of the referees or commissioner may be excepted to and
reviewed in like manner as if made by the court. When the reference
is to report the facts, the finding reported shall have the effect of a
special verdict.
CHAPTER IX.
EXCEPTIONS.
Sec. 279. What are exceptions, and how regarded.
Sec. 280. What deemed to have been excepted to.
Sec. 281. Points of exception to be stated, and must be conformable to
truth or be corrected.
Sec. 282. Form of exception to be brief.
Sec. 283. When, on motion for new trial exceptions deemed taken.
Sec. 279. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a decision
upon a matter of law, whether such trial be by jury, court or referees,
and whether the decision be made during the formation of a jury, or in
the admission of evidence, or in the charge of a jury, or at any other
time, from the calling of the action for trial to the rendering of the
verdict or decision ; but no exceptions shall be regarded on a motion
for a new trial or an appeal, unless the exception be material and affect
the substantial rights of the parties.
Sec. 280. The verdict of the jury, the final decision in an action or
proceeding, an interlocutory order, or decision finally determining the
rights of the parties, or some of them ; an order or decision from which
an appeal may be taken ; an order sustaining or overruling a demurrer,
allowing or refusing to allow an amendment to a pleading, striking out
a pleading or a portion thereof, refusing a continuance ; an order made
upon ex parte application, and an order or decision made in absence of
a party, are deemed to have been excepted to.
Sec. 281. The point of the exception shall be particularly stated,
except as provided in relation to instructions, and may be delivered in
writing to the judge, or if the party require it, it shall be written down
by the clerk. When delivered in writing or written down by the clerk
it shall be made conformable to the truth or be at the time corrected
until it is made so conformable. When not delivered in writing, or
written down as above, it may be entered in the judge's minutes, and
afterwards settled in a statement of the case as provided in this act :
Provided, That if the judge shall in any case refuse to allow an excep
tion in accordance with the facts, any party aggrieved thereby may
petition the supreme court for leave to prove the same, and shall have
the right to do so in such mode and manner, and according to such
regulations, as the supreme court may by rule prescribe.
Sec. 282. No particular form of exception shall be required. The
objection shall be stated with so much of the evidence or other matter
as is necessary to explain it, but no more, and the whole as briefly as
possible.
Sec. 288. When a cause has been tried by the court or by the
referees, and the decision or report is not made immediately after the
closing of the testimony, the decision or report shall be deemed
excepted to on motion for a new trial, or on appeal, without any special
notice that an exception is taken thereto.
CHAPTEK X.
NEW TRIALS.
Sec. 284. New trial defined.
Sec. 285. Causes for new trial.
Sec. 286. How motion for new trial made.
Sec. 287. Notice of motion for new trial: First, upon affidavits. Second,
upon bill of exceptions. Third, upon statement. Fourth,
insufficiency of evidence.
Sec. 288. When motion heard and what references may be made.
Sec. 289. When proceedings may be stayed.
Sec. 284. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of fact in
the same court after a trial and decision by a jury, court, or referees.
Sec. 285. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated
and a new trial granted on the application of the party aggrieved, for
any of the following causes materially affecting the substantial rights
of said party :
First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse
party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion, by which
either party was prevented from having a fair trial.
Second. Misconduct of the jury ; and whenever any one or more of
the jurors shall have been induced to assent to any general or spe
cial verdict, or to a finding on any question or questions submitted
to them by the court, by a resort to the determination of chance,
such misconduct may be proved by the affidavits of any one or more of
the jurors.
Third. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not
have guarded against.
Fourth. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making
the application.
Sec. 286. When the application is made for a cause mentioned
in the first, second, third, and fourth subdivisions of the last section,
it must be made upon affidavits ; for any other cause it may be
made at the option of the moving party, either upon the minutes
of the court, or a bill of exceptions, or a statement of the case pre
pared as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 287. The party intending to move for a new trial must, within
ten days after the verdict of the jury, if the action was tried by a jury, or
after notice of the decision of the court or referee, if the action was
tried without a jury, file with the clerk and serve upon the adverse
party a notice of his intention, designating the grounds upon which
the motion will be made, and whether the same will be made upon
affidavits or the minutes of the court, or a bill of exceptions, or a
statement of the case :
First. If the motion is to be made upon affidavits, the moving
party must, within ten days after serving the notice, or such further
time as the court in which the action is pending or a judge thereof may
allow, file such affidavits with the clerk and serve a copy upon the
adverse party, who shall have ten days to file counter affidavits, a copy
of which must be served upon the moving party.
Second. If the motion is to be made upon a bill of exceptions and
no bill has already been settled as hereinbefore provided, the moving
party shall have the same time after service of the notice to prepare
and obtain a settlement of a bill of exceptions as is provided after the
entry of judgment, or after receiving notice of such entry provided by section 281, and the bill shall be prepared and settled in a similar man
ner. If a bill of exceptions has heen already settled and filed when
the notice of motion is given, such bill shall be used on the motion.
Third. If the motion is to be made upon a statement of the case,
the moving party must, within ten days after the service of the notice,
or such further time as the court in which the action is pending, or the
judge thereof, may allow, prepare a draft of the statement, and serve
the same, or a copy thereof, upon the adverse party. If such pro
posed statement be not agreed to by the adverse party, he must,
within ten days thereafter, prepare amendments thereto, and serve
the same, or a copy thereof, upon the moving party. If the amend
ments be adopted, the statement shall be amended accordingly, and
then presented to the judge who tried or heard the cause for settle
ment, or be delivered to the clerk of the court for the judge. If not
adopted, the proposed statement and amendments shall, within ten
days thereafter, be presented by the moving party to the judge, upon
five days' notice to the adverse party, or delivered to the clerk of the
court for the judge ; and thereupon the same proceedings for the set
tlement of the statement shall be taken by the parties and clerk and
judge as are required for the settlement of bills of exceptions by section
281. If the action was heard by a referee, the same proceedings shall
be had for the settlement of the statement by him as are required by that section for the settlement of bills of exception by a referee. If no
amendments are served within the time designated, or, if served, are
allowed, the proposed statement and amendments, if any, may be pre
sented to the judge or referee for settlement without notice to the
adverse party.
When the notice for the motion designates, as the ground of the
motion, the insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or
other decision, the statement shall specify the particulars in which
such evidence is alleged to be insufficient. When the notice designates
as the ground of motion, errors in law occurring at the trial, and
excepted to by the moving party, the statement shall specify the par
ticular errors upon which the party will rely. If no such specifications
be made, the statement shall be disregarded on the hearing of the
motion. It is the duty of the judge or referee, in settling the state
ment, to strike out of it all redundant and useless matter, and to make
the statement truly represent the case, notwithstanding the assent of
the parties to such redundant or useless matter, or to any inaccurate
statement. When settled, the statement shall be signed by the judge
or referee, with his certificate to the effect that the same is allowed,
and shall then be filed with the clerk.
Fourth. When the motion is to be made upon the minutes of the
court, and the ground of the motion is the insufficiency of the evidence
to justify the verdict or other decision, the notice of motion must
specify the particulars in which the evidence is alleged to be insuffi
cient, and if the ground of the motion be errors in law occurring at the
trial and excepted to by the moving party, the notice must specify the
particular errors upon which the party will rely. If the notice do not
contain the specifications here indicated, when the motion is made on
the minutes of the court, the motion must be denied.
Sec. 288. The application for a new trial shall be heard at the
earliest practicable period after the notice of the motion, if the
motion is to be heard upon the minutes of the court, and in other
cases after the affidavits, bills of exception, or statement, as the
case may be, are filed, and may be brought to a hearing upon
motion of either party. On such hearing, reference may be had in all
cases to the pleadings and orders of the court on file, and when the
motion is made on the minutes, reference may also be had to any
depositions, documentary evidence, and phonographic report of the
testimony on file.
Sec. 289. On all cases where notices of intention to move for a new
trial in accordance with the provisions of chapter ten of the civil prac
tice act, entitled "New Trial," shall have been given, the judge of the
court in which the trial shall have been had may, upon such terms as
in his opinion shall be just, make an order staying proceedings in
the cases until the motion for new trial shall have been disposed of.
Sec. 290. When trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be
entered by the clerk, in conformity to the verdict, within twenty-four
hours after the rendition of the verdict, unless the court order the case
to be reserved for argument or further consideration, or grant a stay'
of proceedings.
When the case is reserved for argument or further consideration, as
mentioned in this section, it may be brought by either party before the
court for argument.
If a counter claim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintiff's
demand, so established, judgment for the defendant shall be given for
the excess, or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other
affirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.
Sec. 291. In an action to recover the possession of personal prop
erty, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession of the value
thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages for the deten
tion. If the property has been delivered to the plaintiff and the defen
dant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a
return of the property or the value thereof, in case a return cannot
be "had, and damages for taking and withholding the same.
Sec. 292. The clerk shall keep among the records of court a book
for the entry of judgments, to be called the "Judgment Book," in
which each judgment shall be entered, and shall specify clearly the
relief granted or other determination of the action.
Sec. 293. If a party die after a verdict or decision upon any issue
of fact, and before judgment, the court may nevertheless render judg
ment thereon ; such judgment shall not be a lien on the real property
of the deceased party, but shall be payable in the course of adminis
tration on his estate.
Sec. 294. Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk shall
attach together and tile the following papers, which shall constitute the
judgment roll :
First. In ease the complaint be not answered by any defendant,
the summons with the affidavit or proof of service, and the complaint,
with a memorandum endorsed upon the complaint that the default of
the defendant in not answering was entered, and a copy of the judg
ment.
Second. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, verdict of the
jury, or finding of the court, commissioner, or referee, all bills of excep
tions taken and filed in said action, copies of orders sustaining or
overruling demurrers, a copy of the judgment, and copies of any orders
relating to a change of parties. •
Sec. 295. Immediately after filing a judgment roll, the clerk shall
make the proper entries of the judgment, under appropriate heads, in
the docket kept by him ; and from the time the judgment is docketed
it shall become a lien upon the real property of the judgment debtor,
not exempt from execution, in the county, owned by him at the time,
or which he may afterward, acquire, until said lien expires. The hen
shall continue for six years, unless the judgment be previously satisfied.
Sec. 296. The docket mentioned in the last section is a book which
the clerk shall keep in his office, with each page divided into eight
columns, and headed as follows : Judgment debtors ; judgment cred.
itors ; judgment, time of entry ; where entered into the judgment book ;
appeals, when taken ; judgment of appellate court ; satisfaction of
judgment, when entered. If judgment be for the recovery of money or
damages, the amount shall be stated in the docket, under the head of
judgment ; if the judgment be for any other relief, a memorandum of
the general character of the relief shall be stated. The names of the
defendants shall be entered in the docket in alphabetical order.
Sec. 297. The docket kept by the clerk shall be open at all times
during office hours for the inspection of the public, without charge ;
and it shall be the duty of the clerk to arrange the several dockets kept
by him in such manner as to facilitate their inspection.
Sec. 298. A transcript of the original docket, certified by the clerk,
may be filed with the recorder of any other county, and from the time
of filing, the judgment shall become a lien upon all the real property of
judgment debtor, not exempt from execution in such county, owned by
him at the time, or which he may afterwards acquire, until the said
lien expires. The lien shall continue for six years, unless the judgment
be previously satisfied.
Sec. 299. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the clerk's
docket upon the execution returned satisfied, or upon an acknowledg
ment of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made in the manner of an
acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, by the judgment
creditor, or by his endorsement on the face, or on the margin of the
record of the judgment, or by the attorney, unless a revocation of his
authority is filed. Whenever a judgment is satisfied in fact, otherwise
than upon an execution, the party or attorney must give such acknowl
edgment, or make such endorsement, and upon motion, the court may
compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to be made without it.
Sec. 800. A transcript of any judgment rendered by any justice of
the peace, duly certified by said justice, may be filed with the recorder
of the county in which such judgment shall have been rendered, and
from the time of the filing of such judgment shall become a lien upon
all the property of the judgment debtor, except personal property and
property exempt from execution in such county, in the same manner
and to the same extent as if such judgment had been originally
rendered in a court of record. Said lien shall continue for six years,
unless the judgment be previously satisfied.
Sec. 801. The party in whose favor judgment is given may, at any
time within six years after the entry thereof, issue a writ of execution
for its enforcement as prescribed in this chapter.
Sec. 802. The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of the
people of the Territory of Montana, sealed with the seal of the court,
and subscribed by the clerk, and shall be directed to the sheriff, and
shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court, the county
where the judgment roll is filed, and if it be for money, the amount
thereof, and the amount actually due thereon, and shall require the
sheriff substantially as follows :
First. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment with interest, out of the
personal property of such debtor ; and if sufficient personal property
cannot be found, then out of his real property ; or if the judgment be
a lien upon real property, then out of the real property belonging to
him on the day when the judgment was docketed, or at any time there
after ; or if the execution be issued to a county other than the one in
which the judgment was recovered, on the day when the transcript of
the docket was filed in the office of the recorder of such county, stating
such day, or any time thereafter. .
Second. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of
the personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real
property, or trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judg
ment, with interest, out of such property.
Third. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail of
the county until he pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged
according to law.
Fourth. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the
same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may
at the same time require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages,
rents or profits recovered by the same judgment oul of the personal
property of the person against whom it was rendered, and the value
of the property for which the judgment was rendered, to be specified
therein ; if a delivery thereof cannot be had, and if sufficient personal
property cannot be found, then out of the real property, as provided in
the first sub-division of this section.
Sec. 303. When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment recov
ered against two or more persons in an action upon a joint contract, in
which action all the defendants were not served with summons, or did
not appear, it shall direct the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of
the joint property of all the defendants and the individual property
only of the defendants who were served or who appeared in the action.
Sec. 304. The execution may be made returnable at any time, not
less than ten nor more than sixty days after its receipt by the sheriff,
to the clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed. When the execution
shall have been returned, it shall be the duty of the clerk to attach the
same to the judgment roll. If any real estate be levied upon, the
clerk shall record the execution and return thereof at large, and certify
the same under his hand as true copies, in a book to be called the
"Execution Book," which book shall be indexed, with the names of
plaintiffs an"d defendants in execution alphabetically arranged, and
kept open at all times during office hours, for the inspection of the
public, without charge, and shall be evidence of the contents of the
originals, whenever they, or any part thereof, may be destroyed, lost
or mutilated.
Sec. 305. When the judgment is for money or the possession of real
or personal property, the same may be enforced by a writ of execution ;
and if the judgment direct that the defendant be arrested, the execu
tion may issue against the person of the judgment debtor after the
return of an execution against his property unsatisfied in whole or in
part. When the judgment requires the sale of the property the same
may be enforced by a writ reciting such judgment, or the material
parts thereof, and directing the proper officer to execute the judgment
by making the sale and applying the proceeds in conformity therewith.
When the judgment requires the performance of any other act than as
above designated, a certified copy of the judgment may be served upon
the party against whom the same is rendered, or upon the person or
officer required thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and obedience
thereto may be enforced by the court.
Sec. 806. Notwithstanding the death of a party after judgment,
execution thereon may be issued in case of the death of the plaintiff,
the same as if he were living, upon the application of his executor or
administrator, or successor in interest, by the court in which the judg
ment was rendered or exists ; and in case of the decease of the defend
ant, if the judgment be for the recovery of real or personal property,
execution may be issued and executed against the property recovered
in the same manner and with the same effect as if he were still living.
Sec. 807. Where the execution is against the property of the judg
ment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county in the
Territory. Where it requires the delivery of real or personal property,
it shall be issued to the sheriff of the county where the property, or
some part thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued at the same
time to different counties.
Sec. 308. All goods, moneys, chattels, and other property, both
real and personal, or any interest therein of the judgment debtor not
exempt by law, and all property and rights of property, seized and
held under attachment in the action, are liable to execution. Shares
and interests in any corporation or company, and debts and credits,
and all other property, both real and personal, or any interest in either
real or personal property, and all other property not capable of
manual delivery, may be attached on execution in like manner as
upon writs of attachment. Gold dust must be returned by the officer
as so much money collected, at its current value, without exposing
the same to sale. Until a levy, property is not affected by the
execution.
Sec. 809. If any personal property levied upon be claimed under
oath by a third party as his property, the sheriff shall deliver the
property to such third person withm five days after notice to plaintiff's
attorney, if the plaintiff resides in the county, otherwise ten days,
unless the plaintiff gives the sheriff good and sufficient bond to
indemnify him against any loss or damage by reason of holding such
property.
Sec. 810. The following property shall be exempt from execution,
except as herein otherwise provided :
First. In all cases wearing apparel of the judgment debtor and
family ; also all chairs, tables, desks, and books, to the value of one
hundred dollars ; and also all necessary household, table and kitchen
furniture of the judgment debtor, including stoves, stovepipes and
stove furniture, beds, bedding, and bedsteads and provisions and fuel
provided for individual or family use sufficient for two months, and
also one horse, two cows with their calves, two swine, and fifty domes
tic fowls.
In addition to the above mentioned property, there shall be exempt
the following named property :
First. To a farmer : Farming utensils or implements of husbandly,
not exceeding in value six hundred dollars ; also, two oxen, or one
horse or mule, and their harness, one cart or wagon, and food for such
oxen, horse, cows, or mule, for three months ; also, all seeds, grain, or
vegetables, actually provided, reserved, or on hand, for the purpose of
planting or sowing at any time within six months, not exceeding in
value the sum of two hundred dollars.
Second. To a mechanic or artizan : Tools or implements necessary •
to carry on his trade.
Third. To a surgeon physician or surgeon and dentist : The instru
ments and chest necessary to the exercise of his profession, with his
scientific and professional libraries.
Fourth. To attorneys at law and ministers of the gospel : The law
libraries of attorneys and counselors, and the libraries of ministers of
the gospel.
Fifth. To a miner : His cabin or dwelling, not exceeding iii value
the sum of five hundred dollars ; also, his sluices, pipes, hose, wind
lasses, derrick, cars, pump, tools, implements, and appliances neces
sary for carrying on any kind of mining operations, not exceeding in
value the aggregate sum of five hundred dollars, and one horse, mule,
or two oxen, with their harness, and food for such horse, mule, or oxen,
for three months, when necessary to be used for any whim, windlass,
derrick, car, pump, or hoisting gear.
Sixth. To a cartman, huckster, peddler, teamster, or laborer : One
horse or mule, or two oxen, and their harness, and one cart or wagon,
by the use of which such person habitually earns his living ; and one
vehicle and harness or other equipments used by a physician or surgeon
or minister of the gospel in making his professional visits, with food
for such horse, mule, or oxen, for three months.
Seventh. All fire engines, hooks and ladders, with the carts, trucks,
and carriages, hose, buckets, implements, and apparatus thereto
appertaining, and all furniture and uniforms of any fire company or
department, organized under any law of this Territory.
Eighth. All arms, uniforms, and accoutrements, required by law to
be kept by any person.
Ninth. All court houses, jails, public offices and buildings, lots,
grounds, and personal property ; the fixtures, furniture, books, papers,
and appurtenances belonging and pertaining to the court house, jail,
and public offices belonging to any county of this Territory ; and all
cemeteries, public squares, parks and places, public buildings, town
halls, markets, buildings for the use of the fire departments and
military organizations, and the lots of ground thereto belonging and ap
pertaining, owned or held by any town or incorporated city, or dedicated
by such town or city to health, ornament, or public use, or for the use
of any fire or military company organized under the laws of this Ter
ritory ; but no article or species of property mentioned in this section
shall be exempt from execution issued upon a judgment recovered for
its price, or upon a mortgage thereon.
Tenth. The earnings of the judgment debtor for his personal ser
vices rendered at any time within thirty days next preceding the levy
of the execution, or levy of attachment, when it shall be made to
appear by the debtor's affidavit, or otherwise, that such earnings are
necessary for the use of his family residing in this Territory, supported
wholly or in part by his labor.
In addition to the property now exempted by law from sale or levy
on execution, there shall be exempted one sewing machine, of a value
not exceeding one hundred dollars, in actual use by each debtor, or
family of the debtor : Provided, That nothing in this section shall be
held or construed to exempt any property belonging to any person who
is not a bona fide resident of this Territory.
Sec. 311. A homestead consisting of any quantity of land not
exceeding one hundred and sixty acres used for agricultural purposes,
and the dwelling house thereon, and its appurtenances, to be selected
by the owner thereof , and not included in any town plat, city, or village ;
or, instead thereof, at the option of the owner, a quantity of land not
exceeding in amount one-fourth of an acre, being within a town plat,
city, or village, and the dwelling house thereon, and its appurtenances,
owned and occupied by any resident of this Territory, shall not be
subject to forced sale on execution, or any other final process from a
court : Provided, Such homestead shall not exceed in value the sum of
two thousand five hundred dollars.*
Sec. 312. Such exemption shall not affect any laborer's or mechanic's
lien, or extend to any mortgage thereon lawfully obtained ; but such
mortgage or other alienation of such homestead by the owner thereof,
if a married man, shall be void unless the wife join in the execution
of the conveyance thereof ; and nothing contained in this act shall be so
construed as to affect any existing debt or debts contracted in this Ter
ritory prior to the passage of this act.
Sec. 313. Whenever a levy shall be made upon the lands or tene
ments of a householder whose homestead has not been selected and
set apart by metes and bounds, such householder may notify the officer
at the time of making such levy, of what he regards as his homestead,
with a description thereof, within the limits above described, and the
remainder alone shall be subject to sale under such levy.
Sec. 314. If the plaintiff in execution shall be dissatisfied with the
quantity of land selected and set apart as aforesaid, the officer making
such levy shall cause the same to be surveyed, beginning at a point to
be designated by the owner, and set off in a compact form, including
the dwelling house and its appurtenances, to the amount specified in section 311 of this act ; and the expense of such survey shall be
chargeable on the execution and collected thereupon, if it shall appear
after such survey that the owner of such land did not correctly state
his metes and bounds, otherwise the expense of such survey shall be
borne by the person directing the same.
Sec. 315. Any person owning and occupying any dwelling house
on land not his own, which land he shall be rightfully in possession of
by lease or otherwise, and claiming such house as his homestead, shall
be entitled to the exemption of such house.
Sec. 316. Real estate exempt from forced sale on execution or other
final process, as the homestead of a family, shall likewise, after the
death of the owner thereof, be exempt from the payment of his debts,
in all cases in which any infant children of the said owner shall sur
vive him ; and no executor or administrator shall have a right to the
possession of any real estate so exempted, or to the rents or profits
of the same.
Sec. 317. If the owner of a homestead may remove therefrom, or
sell and convey the same, such removal or sale and conveyance shall
not render such homestead subject or liable to forced sale on execution,
or other final process issued against such owner ; nor shall any judg
ment, or decree of a court be a lien on such homestead, for any
purpose whatever : Provided, That this act shall not be so construed
as to in any manner relate to judgments or decrees rendered on the
foreclosure of mortgages either equitable or legal.
Sec. 318. On the death of the owner of such homestead, the same
shall descend to his widow, and she shall take and hold the same
during her natural life, free from the incumbrance of all judgments
and claims against the deceased or his estate, except mortgages law
fully executed thereon.
Sec, 319. The provisions contained in sections numbered from sec
tion 311 to section 318, inclusive, shall only apply to married men, or
the head of a family.
Sec. 320. The sheriff must execute the writ against the property of
the judgment debtor, by levying upon a sufficient amount of property,
if there be sufficient ; collecting or selling the things in action, and sell
ing the other property, and paying to the plaintiff or his attorney so
much of the proceeds as will satisfy the judgment. Any excess of the
proceeds over the judgment and accruing costs must be returned to the
judgment debtor, unless otherwise directed by the judgment or order of
the court. When there is more property of the judgment debtor than
is sufficient to satisfy the judgment and accruing costs within the view
of the sheriff, he must levy only on such part of the property as the
judgment debtor may indicate, if the property indicated be amply
sufficient to satisfy the judgment and costs.
Sec. 321. Before the sale of property on execution, notice shall be
given as follows :
First. In case of perishable property, by posting written notice of
the time and place of sale in three public places of the township or city
where the sale is to take place, for such time as may be reasonable,
considering the character and condition of the property.
Second. In case of other personal property, by posting a similar
notice in three public places in the township or city where the sale is to
take place not less than five nor more than ten days successively.
Third. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, par
ticularly describing the property, for twenty days successively, in three
public places of the township or city where the property is situated,
and also where the property is to be sold, and publishing a brief notice
of such sale once a week for the same period in some newspaper pub
lished in the county, if there be one, which notice shall be substantially
as follow8 :
John Doe ) sheriff's sale.
vs.
Richard Eoe.
To be sold at sheriff's sale on the —day of , 187—, at
[Here insert a brief description of property.] Signed,
John Doe, Sheriff'.
Any sheriff publishing a notice not in accordance with this form, and
which shall cost more than such a notice, shall not be entitled to any
costs for the publication of the same, but shall be personally liable for
the payment of such publication.
Sec. 322. An officer selling without the notice prescribed by the
last section shall forfeit five hundred dollars to the aggrieved party, in
addition to his actual damages, and a person willfully taking down or
defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or the satisfaction of
the judgment (if the judgment be satisfied before sale), shall forfei five
hundred dollars.
Sec. 823. All sales of property under execution shall be made at
auction to the highest bidder, and shall be made between the hours of
nine in the morning and five in the afternoon. After sufficient property
has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold. Neither
the officer holding the execution nor his deputy shall become a pur
chaser or be interested in any purchase at such sale. When the sale is
of personal property capable of manual delivery, it shall be within view
of those that attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely
to bring the highest price ; and when the sale is of real property, and
consisting of several known lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately,
or when a portion of such real property is claimed by a third person,
and he requires it to be sold separately, such portion shall be thus sold.
The judgment debtor, if present at the sale, may also direct the order
in which property, real or personal, shall be .sold when such property
consists of several known lots or parcels, or of articles which can be
sold to advantage separately ; and the sheriff shall be bound to follow
such directions.
Sec. 324. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by him for
property struck off to him at a sale under execution, the officer may
again sell the property at any time to the highest bidder, and if any
loss be occasioned thereby the officer may recover the amount of such
loss, with costs, from the bidder so refusing, in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
Sec. 825. When a purchaser refuses to pay, the officer may, in his
discretion, thereafter reject any subsequent bid of such person.
Sec. 326. The two preceding sections shall not be construed to
make the officer liable for any more than the amount bid by the second
or subsequent purchaser and the amount collected from the purchaser
refusing to pay.
Sec. 327. When the purchaser of any personal property capable of
manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the officer making the
sale shall deliver to the purchaser the property, and, if desired, shall
execute and deliver to him a certificate of the sale and payment. Such
certificate shall convey to the purchaser all the right, title, and interest
which the debtor had in and to such property on the day the execution
was levied.
Sec. 328. When the purchaser of any personal property not capa
ble of manual delivery shall pay the purchase money, the officer mak
ing the sale shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a certificate of
sale and payment. Such certificate shall convey to the purchaser all
right, title and interest which the debtor had in and to such property
on the day the execution was levied.
Sec. 329. Upon a sale of real property the purchaser shall be sub
rogated to and acquire all the right title, and interest and claim of the
judgment debtor therein, and when the estate is less than a leasehold
of two years' unexpired term the sale shall be absolute ; in all other
cases the property shall be subject to redemption as provided in this chapter. The officer shall give to the purchaser a certificate of sale,
containing—
First. A particular description of the reiil property sold.
Second. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.
Third. The whole price paid.
Fourth. When subject to redemption it shall be so stated.
A duplicate of such certificate shall be filed by the officer in the office
of the recorder of the county.
Sec. 330. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in the
last section, or any part separately, may be redeemed in the manner
hereinafter provided, by the following persons or their successors in
interest :
First. The judgment debtor or his successor in interest in the whole
or in any part of the property.
Second. A creditor having a lien by judgment or mortgage on the
property sold, or on some share or part thereof, subsequent to that on
which the property was sold.
The persons mentioned in the second sub-division of this section are
in this chapter termed redemptioners.
Sec. 331. The judgment debtor, or redemptioner, may redeem the
property from the purchaser any time within six months after the sale,
on paying the purchaser the amount of his purchase, with two per
cent, a month thereon in addition up to the time of redemption,
together with the amount of any assessment or taxes which the pur
chaser may have paid thereon after purchase, and interest on such
amount, and if the purchaser be also a creditor, having a prior lien to
that of the redemptioner, other than the judgment under which such
purchase was made, the amount of such lien, with interest.
Sec. 332. If the property be so redeemed by a redemptioner, another
redemptioner may, within sixty days after the last redemption, again
redeem it from the last redemptioner, on paying the sum paid on such
last redemption, with four percent, thereon in addition, and the amount
of any assessment or taxes which the last redemptioner may have
paid thereon after the redemption by him, with interest on such amount,
and in addition to the amount of any liens held by said last redemp
tioner prior to his own, with interest ; but the judgment under which
the property was sold need not be so paid as a lien.
The property may be again, and so often as a redemptioner is so
disposed, redeemed from any previous redemptioner, within sixty days
after the last redemption, on paying the sum paid on the last previous
redemption, with four per cent, thereon in addition, and the amount of
any assessments or taxes which the last previous redemptioner paid after
the redemption by him, with interest thereon, and the amount of any
liens, other than the judgment under which the property was sold,
held by the last redemptioner previous to his own, with interest.
Written notice of redemption must be given to the sheriff, and a
duplicate filed with the recorder of the county ; and if any taxes or
assessments are paid by the redemptioner, or if he has or acquires any
lien other than that upon which the redemption was made, notice
thereof must in like manner be given to the sheriff and hied with the
recorder ; and if such notice be not filed, the property may be redeemed
without paying such tax, assessment, or lien. If no redemption be
made within six months after the sale, the purchaser or his assignee is
entitled to a conveyance ; or, if so redeemed, whenever sixty days have
elapsed and no other redemption has been made, and notice thereof
given, and the time for redemption has expired, the last redemptioner
or assignee is entitled to a sheriff's deed ; but in all cases the judgment
debtor shall have the entire period of six months from the date of the
sale to redeem the property. If the judgment debtor redeem he must
make the same payments as are required to effect a redemption by a
redemptioner. If the debtor redeem, the effect of the sale is termi
nated, and he is restored to his estate. Upon a redemption by the
debtor, the person to whom the payment is made must execute and
deliver to him a certificate of redemption, acknowledged or proved
before an officer authorized to take acknowledgment of conveyances of
real property. Such certificate must be filed and recorded in the office
of the recorder of the county in which the property is situated, and the
recorder must note the record thereof in the margin of the record of the
certificate of such sale.
Sec. 333. The payments mentioned in the last two sections may be
made to the purchaser or redemptioner, as the case may be, or for
him, to the officer who made the sale, or, in case his term of office has
expired, then to his successor in office ; and in all cases when, under
the provisions of this act, a purchaser of property at execution sale
shall be entitled to a conveyance of the same, such conveyance shall
be executed to him by the officer who made the sale, if he still be in
office, but in case the officer who made the sale be not in such office at
the time the purchaser may be entitled to such conveyance, then the
conveyance shall be executed by his successor in office.
Sec. 334. A redemptioner shall produce to the officer or person
from whom he seeks to redeem, and serve with his notice to the sheriff :
First. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which he claims
the right to redeem, certified by the clerk of the court or of the county
where the judgment is docketed ; or, if he redeem upon a mortgage or
other lien, a note of the record thereof certified by the recorder.
Second. A copy of any Assignment necessary to establish his claim,
verified by the affidavit of himself, or of a subscribing witness thereto ;
and,
Third. An affidavit by himself or his agent, showing the amount
then actually due on the lien.
Sec. 335. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption,
the court may restrain the commission of waste on the property, by
order granted, with or without notice, on the application of the pur
chaser or the judgment creditor. But it shall not be deemed waste for
the person in possession of the property at the time of sale, or entitled
to possession afterwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to
continue to use it, in the same manner in which it was previously
used ; or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry ; or to make the
necessary repairs of buildings thereon ; or to use wood or timber on the
property therefor, or for the repair of fences, or for fuel for his family
while he occupies the property.
Sec. 336. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or his
successor in interest, be evicted therefrom, in consequence of irregular
ities in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal or
discharge of the judgment, he may recover the price paid, with interest,
from the judgment creditor. If the purchaser of property at sheriff's
sale, or his successor in interest, fail to recover possession, in conse
quence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or
because the property sold was not subject to execution and sale, the
court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on petition of such party in
interest, or his attorney, revive the original judgment for the amount
paid by such# purchaser at the sale, with interest thereon from the
time of payment at the same rate that the original judgment bore ; and,
when so revised, the said judgment shall have the same effect as an
original judgment of the said court of that date, and bearing interest
as aforesaid ; and any other or after acquired property, rents, issues,
or profits of the said debtor shall be liable to levy and sale under exe
cution, in satisfaction of such debt : Provided, That no property of
such debtor, sold bona fide before the filing of such petition, shall be
subject to lien of said judgment : And provided, further, That notice
of the filing of such petition shall be made by filing a notice thereof in
the recorder's office of the county where such property may be situated,
and that said judgment shall be revived in the name of the original
plaintiff or plaintiffs, for the use of said petitioner, the party in interest.
Sec. 337. When property liable to an execution against several
persons is sold thereon, and more than a due proportion of the judg
ment is satisfied out of the proceeds of the sale of property of one of
them, or one of them pays, without a sale, more than his proportion,
he may compel contribution from the others ; and when a judgment is
against several, and is upon an obligation of one of them, as security
for another, and the surety pays the amount, or any part thereof, either
by sale of his property or before sale, he may compel re-payment from
the principal. In such case the person so paying or contributing is
entitled to the benefit of the judgment to enforce contribution or re
payment, if, within ten days after his payment, he file with the clerk
of the court where judgment was rendered, notice of his payment and
claim to contribution or re-payment. Upon a filing of such notice, the
clerk must make an entry thereof in the margin of the docket.
Sec. 338. When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or any of the several debtors in the same judgment, issued to
the sheriff of the county where he resides, or, if he does not reside in
this Territory, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment roll
is filed, is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the judgment credi
tor, at any time after such return is made, shall be entitled to an order
from the judge of the court, or probate judge, requiring such judgment
debtor to appearand answer concerning his property, before such judge,
or a referee appointed by him, at a time and place specified in the order ;
but no judgment debtor shall be required to attend before a judge or
referee, out of the county in which he resides, when proceedings are
taken under the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 339. After issuing an execution against property, and upon
proof by affidavit by a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court,
or a judge thereof, that any judgment debtor has property which he
unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment,
such court or judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to
appear at a specified time and place, before such judge or referee
appointed by him, to answer concerning the same ; and such proceed
ings may thereupon be had for the application of the property of the
judgment debtor towards the satisfaction of the judgment as are pro
vided upon the return of an execution. Instead of the order requiring
the attendance of the judgment debtor, the judge may, upon affidavit
of the judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, if it appear to him that
there is danger of the debtor absconding, order the sheriff to arrest the
debtor, and bring him before such judge. Upon being brought before
the judge he may be ordered to enter into an undertaking, with surety,
that he will attend from time to time before the judge or referee, as shall
be directed, during the pendency of the proceedings, and until the final
determination thereof, and will not in the meantime dispose of any por
tion of his property not exempt from execution. In default of entering
into such undertaking he may be committed to prison.
Sec. 340. After the issuing of an execution against property, and
before its return, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay
to the sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff's receipt is a sufficient
discharge for the amount so paid.
Sec. 341. After the issuing or return of an execution against property
of a judgment debtor, or any one of several debtors in the same
judgment, and upon proof, by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction
of the judge, that any person or corporation has property of such judg
ment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars,
the judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or any
officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place before
him, or a referee appointed by him, and answer concerning the same.
The judge may also, by order, forbid a transfer or 6ther disposition
of the property of the judgment debtor not exempt from execution, and
any interference therewith.
Sec. 342. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify before the
judge or referee, upon any proceeding under this chapter, in the same
manner as upon trial of an issue.
Sec. 343. The judge or referee may order any property of the judg
ment debtor not exempt from execution, in the hands of such debtor,
or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied
towards the satisfaction of the judgment; except, that the earn
ings of the debtor for his personal services, at any time within thirty
days next preceding the order, shall not be so applied, when it shall be
made to appear by the debtor's affidavit, or otherwise, that such earn
ings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly or partly by
his labor.
Sec. 344. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have
property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest
in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, the court or judge
may authorize, by an order made to that effect, the judgment creditor
to institute an action against such person or corporation, for the
recovery of such interest or debt. And the court or judge may, by
order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such interest or debt,
until an action can be commenced and prosecuted to judgment. Such
order may be modified or vacated by the judge granting the same, or by
the court in which the action is brought, at any time, upon such terms
as may be just.
Sec. 345. If any person, party or witness disobey an order of the
referee properly made, in the proceeding before him, under this chapter,
he may be punished by the court or judge ordering the reference, for a
contempt.
Sec. 346. There shall be but one action for the recovery of any debt,
or the enforcement of any rights, secured by mortgage upon real estate
or personal property, which action shall be in accordance with the pro
visions of this chapter. In action for the foreclosure of mortgages, the
court shall have the power, by its judgment, to direct a sale of the
incumbered property (.or as much as may be necessary), and the
application of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costs of
the court, and expenses of the sale, and the amount due to the plain
tiff ; and if it appear from the sheriff's return that the proceeds are
insufficient, and a balance still remains due, judgment shall be dock
eted for such balance against the defendant, or defendants, person
ally liable for the debt, and shall then become a lien on the real estate
of such judgment debtor, as in other cases in which execution may be
issued. No person holding a conveyance from or under the mortgagor,
or of the property mortgaged, or having a lien thereon, which convey
ance does not appear on record in the proper office at the time of the
commencement of the action, need be made a party to such action ;
and the judgment therein rendered, and the proceedings therein had,
shall be as conclusive against the party holding such unrecorded con
veyance or lien, as if he had been made a party to said action, and shall,
in all respects, have the same force and effect.
Sec. 347. If there be surplus money remaining after payment of the
amount due on the mortgage, lien, or incumbrance, with costs, the
court may cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it, and
in the meantime may direct it to be deposited in court.
Sec. 318. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien or incumbrance
is held be not all due, so soon as sufficient of the property has been sold
to pay the amount due, with costs, the sale shall cease ; and afterwards,
as often as more becomes due for principal or interest, the court may,
on motion, order more to be sold. But if the property can not be sold
in portions without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered to
be sold in the first instance, and the entire debt and costs paid, there
being a rebate of interest where such rebate is proper.
CHAPTER II.
ACTIONS FOR NUISANCE, WASTE AND WILLFUL TRESPASS IN
CERTAIN CASES.
Sec. 349. Nuisance defined; who may bring action; nuisance may be
enjoined.
Sec. 350. Waste defined; action for.
Sec. 351. Cutting or carrying away timber.
Sec. 352. Measure of damages under last section.
Sec. 353. Damages in forcible entry and detainer.
Sec. 349. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent, or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property so
as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of. life or property, is a
nuisance, and the subject of an action. Such action may be brought
by any person whose property is injuriously affected or whose personal
enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance, and by the judgment the
nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered.
Sec. 350. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant, or
tenant in common of real property, commit waste thereon, any person
aggrieved by the waste may bring an action against him therefor, in
which action there may be judgment for triple damages.
Sec. 351. Any person who shall cut down or carry off any wood or
underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or otherwise injure any tree or
timber on the land of another person, or on the street or highway in
front of any person's house, village or city lot, or cultivated grounds,
or on the common or public grounds of any city or town, or on the
street or highway in front thereof, without lawful authority, shall be
liable to the owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the
amount of damages which may be assessed therefor, in a civil action in
any court having jurisdiction.
Sec. 352. Nothing in the last section shall authorize the recovery
of more than the just value of the timber taken from uncultivated
woodland for the repair of the public highway or bridge upon the land
or adjoining it.
Sec. 353. If a person recover damages for a forcible or unlawful
entry in or upon, or detention of, any building or any cultivated real
property, judgment may be entered for three times the amount at
which the actual damages are assessed.
CHAPTER III.
ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL ESTATE.
Sec. 354. Who may briny action to determine an interest in real estate.
Sec. 355. Plaintiff shall not recover costs if defendant disclaims.
Sec. 356. Judgment when plaintiff's title terminates during suit.
Sec. 357. When value of improvements allowed as set off; order to
allow survey of real estate.
Sec. 358. Order for survey.
Sec. 35LJ. Mortgagee cannot recover possession of real estate, without
foreclosure and sale.
Sec. 360. Injury to real estate may be enjoined during foreclosure.
Sec. 361. Purchaser may recover damages for injury.
Sec. 362. Plaintiff cannot be prejudiced by alienation of defendant.
Sec. 363. Customs and usages of miners.
Sec. 354. An action may be brought by any person in possession,
by himself or his tenant, of real property, against any person who
claims an estate or interest therein adverse to him, for the purpose of
determining such adverse claim, estate, or interest.
Sec. 355. If the defendant in such action disclaim in his answer
any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken
against him without answer, the plaintiff shall not recover costs.
Sec. 356. In an action for the recovery of real property where the
plaintiff shows the right to recover at the time the action was com
menced, but it appears that his right has terminated during the
pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment shall be according
to the fact, and the plaintiff may recover damages for withholding the
property.
. Sec. 357. When damages are claimed for withholding the property
recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been made by
a defendant, or those under whom he claims, holding under cover of title adversely to the claims of the plaintiff, in good faith, the value of
such improvements shall be allowed as a set-off against such damages.
The court in which an action is pending for the recovery of real
property or for damages for an injury thereto, or a judge thereof, or a
county judge, may, on motion, upon notice by either party, for good
cause shown, grant an order allowing to such party the right to enter
upon the property and make survey and measurement thereof, and of
any tunnels, shafts, or drifts thereon, for the purpose of the action,
even though entry for such purpose has to be made through other
lands belonging to parties to the action.
Sec. 358. The order shall describe the property, and%a copy thereof
shall be served on the owner or occupant ; and thereupon such party
may enter upon the property, with necessary surveyors and assistants,
and may make such survey and measurement ; but if any unnecessary
injury be done to the property he shall be liable therefor.
Sec. 359. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a con
veyance, whatever its term, so as to enable the owner of the mortgage
to recover possession of the real property without foreclosure and sale.
Sec. 360. The court may, by injunction, on good cause shown,
restrain the party in possession from doing any act to the injury of
real property during the foreclosure of a mortgage thereon, or after a
sale on execution, before a conveyance.
Sec. 361. When real property shall have been sold on execution,
the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his
interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for
injury to the property by the tenant in possession, after a sale and
before possession is delivered under the conveyance.
Sec. 362. An action for the recovery of real property against a
person in possession cannot be prejudiced by any alienation made by
such person, either before or after the commencement of the action.
Sec. 363. In actions respecting mining claims, proof must be
admitted of the customs, usages, or regulations established and in
force at the bar or diggings embracing such claim ; and such customs,
usages, or regulations, when not in conflict with the laws of this Ter
ritory, must govern the decision of the action.
Sec. 364. When several co-tenants hold and are in possession of
real property as parceners, joint tenants, or tenants in common, in
which one or more of them have an estate of inheritance, or for life
or lives, or for years, an action may be brought by one or more of such
persons for a partition thereof, according to the respective rights of
the persons interested therein, and for a sale of such property or a
part thereof, if it appear that a partition cannot be made without
great prejudice to the owners.
Sec. 365. The interest of all such persons in the property, whether
such persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth in the complaint
specifically and particularly, as far as known to the plaintiff, and
if one or more of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of
any of the parties, be unknown to the plaintiff, or be uncertain or con
tingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depend upon executory
devise, or the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such par
ties cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.
Sec. 866. No person having a conveyance of, or claiming a lien on,
the property, or some part of it, need be made a party to the action,
unless such conveyance or lien appear of record.
Sec. 367. Immediately after filing the complaint in the district
court, the plaintiff shall file with the recorder of the county, or of the
several counties, in which the property is situated, either a copy of
such complaint or a notice of the pendency of the action, containing
the names of the parties so far as Known, the object of the action, and
a description of the property to be affected thereby. From the time
of the filing it shall be deemed notice to all persons.
Sec. 368. The summons shall be directed to all the joint tenants
and tenants in common, and all persons having an interest in, or any
liens of record by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, upon the prop
erty, or upon any particular portion thereof; and, generally, to all
persons unknown who have or claim any interest in the property.
Sec. 369. If a party having a share or interest is unknown, or any
one of the known parties reside out of the Territory, or cannot be found
therein, and such fact is made to appear by affidavit, the summons
may be served on such absent or unknown party by publication, as in
other cases. When publication is made, the summons, as published,
shall be accompanied by a brief description of the property which is
the subject of the action.
Sec. 370. The defendants who have been personally served with
the summons and a copy of the complaint, or who shall have appeared
without such service, shall set forth in their answers, fully and partic
ularly, the origin, nature and extent of their respective interests in
the property ; and if such defendants claim a lien on the property by
mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, they shall correctly state the original
amount and date of the same, and the true sum remaining due
thereon ; also, whether the same has been secured in any other way or
not, and if secured, the nature and extent of such security, or they
shall be deemed to have waived their right to such hen.
Sec. 871. The rights of the several parties, plaintiffs as well as
defendants, may be put in issue, tried and determined by such action ;
and when a sale of the premises is necessary, the title shall be ascer
tained by proof to the satisfaction of the court, before the judgment of
sale shall be made, and where service of the complaint has been made
by publication, like proof shall be required of the right of absent or
unknown parties before such judgment is rendered, except that where
there are several unknown persons having an interest in the property
their rights may be considered together in the action, and not as
between themselves.
Sec. 872. Whenever, from any cause, it shall become, in the opinion
of the court, impracticable or highly inconvenient to make a complete
partition in the first instance, among all the parties in interest, it shall
be lawful for the court to first ascertain and determine the shares or
interest respectively held by the original co-tenants, and thereupon to
adjudge and cause a partition to be made, as if such original co-tenants
were the parties and sole parties in interest, and the only parties to
the action, and therefore proceed in like manner to adjudge and make
partition separately of each share of partition so ascertained and
allotted, as between those claiming under the original tenant to whom
the same shall have been so set apart, or allow them to remain tenants
in common thereof, as they may desire.
Sec. 373. If it shall appear to the court by the certificate of the
county recorder, or county clerk, or by the sworn or verified statement
of any person who may have examined or searched the records, that
there are outstanding liens or incumbrances of record upon such real
property, or any part or portion thereof, which issued and were of
record at the time of commencement of said action, and the persons
holding such liens are not made parties to the action, the court shall
either order such persons to be made parties to the action by an amend
ment or supplemental complaint, or appoint a referee to ascertain
whether or not such liens or incumbrances have been paid, or if not
paid, what amount remains due thereon, and their order among the
liens or incumbrances severally held by the said persons and the
Earties to said action, apd whether the amount remaining due thereon
as been secured in any manner, and if secured, the nature and extent
of the security.
Sec. 374. The plaintiff shall cause a notice to be served a reasonable
time previous to the day for appearance before the referee appointed,
as provided in the last section, on each person having outstanding
liens of record who is not a party to the action, to appear before the
referee at a specified time and place, to make proof by his own affidavit
or otherwise of the true amount due, or to become due, contingently or
absolutely, thereon. In case such person be absent or his residence be
unknown, service may be made by publication, or notice to his agents,
under the direction of the court, in such manner as may be proper.
The report of the referee thereon shall be made to the court, and shall
be confirmed, modified, or set aside, and a new reference ordered, as
the justice of the case may require.
Sec. 375. If it be alleged in the complaint, and be established by
evidence; or if it appear by the evidence without such allegation in the
complaint, to the satisfaction of the court, that the property, or any
part of it, is so situated that partition cannot be made without great
prejudice to the owners, the court may order a sale thereof ; otherwise,
upon the requisite proof being made, it shall order a partition accord
ing to the respective rights of the parties as ascertained by the court,
and appoint three referees therefor, and shall designate the portion to
remain undivided for the owners whose interests are remaining
unknown, or are not ascertained.
Sec. 376. In making the partition, the referees shall divide the
property and allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties,
quantity and quality relatively considered, according to the respective
rights of the parties as determined by the court, pursuant to the pro
visions of this chapter, designating the several portions by proper
landmarks, and may employ a surveyor, with the necessary assistants,
to aid them.
Sec. 377. The referee shall make a report of their proceedings,
specifying therein the manner of executing their trusts, describing the
property divided and the shares allotted to each party, with a particular
description of each share.
Sec. 378. If no exceptions be filed to the report, or upoa hearing
they should be overruled, the court shall confirm the same ; or it may,
upon exceptions, change, modify, or set it aside, and refer the matter
to the same, or, if necessary, may appoint new referees. Upon the
report, as confirmed, a final judgment shall be rendered, to the effect
that such partition be effectual and valid forever, which judgment shall
be binding and conclusive :
First. On all persons named in the complaint as parties to the
action, or who shall have appeared therein, and their legal representa
tives, who have at the time any interest in the property divided, or any
part thereof, as owners in fee, or as tenants for life or for years, or as
entitled to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such prop
erty, or any part thereof, after the termination of a particular estate
therein, and who, by any contingency, may be entitled to a beneficial
interest in the property, or who have an interest in any undivided share
thereof as tenants for years or for life.
Second. On all persons interested in the property, who may be
unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of the action by publi
cation.
Third. On all persons claiming from such parties or persons, or
either of them, and to that end the action shall be deemed, and is
hereby declared, to be a proceeding in rem.
A copy of the report of the referee, as confirmed, together with a
copy of the final judgment therein rendered, duly certified, may be
filed in the office of the county recorder of the county or counties in
which the land is situated, whose duty it shall be to record the same,
which filing and recording shall have the same force and effect as the
filing and recording of a deed of conveyance.
Fourth. On all persons who have, or claim to have, conveyances to,
or liens upon, or any interest in, the property, when such conveyances,
liens or interest did not appear of record at the time of the commence
ment of the proceedings for partition.
Sec. 379. But such judgment and partition shall not affect tenants
for years, less than ten, to the whole of the property which is the
subject of the partition.
Sec. 380. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor
and his assistant or assistants, when employed, shall be ascertained
and allowed by the court, and the amount thereof, together with the
fees allowed by the court, in its discretion, to the referees, shall be
apportioned among the different parties to the action equitably.
Sec. 381. When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate of any
of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, shall thenceforth be a
charge only on the share assigned to such party ; but such share shall
be first charged with its just proportion of the costs of the partition in
preference to such lien.
Sec. 382. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold,
if there be an estate for life or for years in an undivided share of the
whole property, such estate may be set off in any part of the property
not ordered to be sold.
Sec. 383. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered property
shall be applied, under the direction of the court, as follows:
First. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action.
Second. To pay the costs of the reference.
Third. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their
order of priority, by payment of the sums due and to become due ;
the amount due to be verified by affidavit at the time of payment.
Fourth. The residue among the owners of the property sold, ac
cording to the respective shares therein.
Sec. 384. Whenever any party to an action who holds a lien upon
the property, or any part thereof, has other securities for the payment
of the amount of such lien, the court may, in its discretion, order such
securities to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds of
sale, or may order a just deduction to be made from the amount of the
lien on the property on account thereof.
Sec. 385. The proceeds of sale and the securities taken by the
referees, or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the persons
entitled thereto whenever the court so directs ; but in case no direction
be given, all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into court or
deposited therein, or as directed by the court.
Sec. 386. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcels be
longing to persons who are parties to the action, and who are known,
are paid into court, the action may be continued as between such par
ties for the determination of their respective claims thereto, which
shall be ascertained and adjudged by the court. Further testimony
may be taken in court or by a referee, at the discretion of the court ;
and the court may, if necessary, require such parties to present the
facts or law in controversy by pleadings as in an original action.
Sec. 387. All sales of real property made by referees under this chapter shall be made by public auction to the highest bidder, upon
notice in the manner required for the sale of real property on execu
tion. The notice shall state the tends of sale; and if the property,
or any part of it, is to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge, or lien,
that shall be stated in the notice.
Sec. 388. The court shall, in the order for sale, direct the terms of
credit which may be allowed for the purchase money of any portion of
the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit, and for that por
tion of which the purchase money is required, by the provisions here
inafter contained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners,
infants, or parties out of the Territory.
Sec. 389. The referees may take separate mortgages and other
securities for the whole or convenient portions of the purchase money
of such parts of the property as are directed by the court to be sold on
credit for the shares of any known owner of full age, in the name of
such owner ; and for the shares of an infant in the name of the guar
dian of such infant ; and for other shares in the name of the clerk of
the county and his successors in office.
Sec. 390. The person entitled to a tenancy for life or years, whose
estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to receive such sum as
may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for such estate, and which
the person so entitled may consent to accept instead thereof by an
instrument in writing, filed with the clerk of the court. Upon the
filing of such consent the clerk shall enter the same in the minutes of
the court.
Sec. 391. If such consent be not given, filed and entered, as pro
vided in the last section, at or before a judgment of sale is rendered,
the court shall ascertain and determine what proportion of the pro
ceeds of the sale, after deducting expenses, will be a just and reason
able sum to be allowed on account of such estate, and shall order the
same.to be paid to such party or deposited in the court for him, as the
case may require.
Sec. 892. If the persons entitled to such estate for life or years be
unknown, the court shall provide for the protection of their rights in
the same manner, as far as may be, as if they were known and had
appeared.
Sec. 898. In all cases of sales, when it appears that any person
has a vested or contingent future right or estate in any of the property
sold, the court shall ascertain and settle the proportional value of such
contingent or vested right or estate, and shall direct such proportion
of the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured or paid over, m such
manner as to protect the rights and interests of parties.
Sec. 894. In all cases of sales of property, the terms shall be made
known at the time ; and if the premises consist of distinct farms or lots,
they shall be sold separately.
Sec. 895. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of
either them, shall be interested in any purchase ; nor shall a guardian
of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any real property,
being the subject of the actions, except for the benefit of the infant.
All sales contrary to the provisions of this section shall be void.
Sec. 896. After completing the sale of the property, or any part
thereof, ordered to be sold, the referee shall report the same to the
court, with a description of the different parcels of land sold to each
purchaser, the name of the purchaser, the price paid or secured, the
terms and condition of the sale, and the securities, if any, taken. The
report shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the county where the
property is situated.
CHAPTER V.
ACTIONS FOR THE TJSTTRPATION OF AN OFFICE OR FRANCHISE.
Sec. 397. Remedies by civil action instead of by writs of " scire facias "
and "quo warranto."
Sec. 898. Who may bring action for usurping office or franchise.
Sec. 899. What complaint to set forth ; when defendant arrested.
Sec. 400. What judgment may determine.
Sec. 401. To what person is entitled when judgment is rendered upon.
his right.
Sec. 402. Damages may be recovered.
Sec. 403. Rights of several persons may be settled in one action.
Sec. 404. Judgment against person found guilty.
Sec. 897. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto, and
proceedings by information in the nature of quo warranto, are abol
ished. The remedies obtainable in these forms may hereafter be
obtained by civil actions under the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 398. An action may be brought by the district attorney in the
name of the people of this Territory, upon his own information, or
upon the complaint of a private party, against any person who usurps,
intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises any public office, civil or
military, or any franchise within his district in the Territory ; and it
shall be the duty of the district attorney to bring the action whenever
he has reason to believe that any such office or franchise has been
usurped, intruded into, or unlawfully held or exercised by any person,
or when he is directed to do so by the Governor ; and in case such dis
trict attorney shall neglect or refuse to bring such action upon the
complaint of a private party, such action may be brought by such
private party upon his own relation, in the name of the people of the
Territory.
Sec. 399. Whenever such action is brought, the district attorney
or relator, in addition to the statement of the cause of action, may
also set forth in the complaint the name of the person rightly enti
tled to the office, with a statement of his rights thereto ; and in such
case, upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has received fees or
emoluments belonging to the office, and by means of his usurpation
thereof, an order may be granted by a judge of the Supreme Court, or
a district judge, for the arrest of such, defendant and holding him to
bail ; and thereupon he may be arrested and held to bail, in the same
manner, and with the same effect, and subject to the same rights and
liabilities, as in other civil actions where the defendant is subject to
arrest.
Sec. 400. In every such case judgment may be rendered upon the
right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so alleged
to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall
require.
Sec. 401. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the per
son so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person,
he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office, and executing such
official bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself the exe
cution of the office.
Sec. 402. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, he may
recover, by action, the damages which he shall have sustained by rea
son of the usurpation of the office by the defendant.
Sec. 403. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same
office or franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons
in order to try their respective rights to such office or franchise.
Sec. 404. When a defendant against whom such action has been
brought is adjudged guilty of usurping, or intruding into, or unlaw
fully holding any office, franchise, or privilege, judgment shall be ren
dered that such defendant be excluded from the office, franchise, or
privilege, and that he pay the costs of the action. The court may also,
m its discretion, impose upon the defendant a fine, not exceeding five
thousand dollars, which fine, when collected, shall be paid into the
treasury of the Territory.
Sec. 405. A judgment or order in a civil action, except when
expressly made final by this act, may be reviewed as prescribed by
this act.
Sec. 406. An order made put of court, without notice to the adverse
party, may be vacated or modified without notice, by the judge who
made it, or may be vacated or modified on notice, in the manner in
which other motions are made.
Sec. 407. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed
in this title. The party appealing shall be Known as the appellant, and
the adverse party as the respondent.
Sec. 408. An appeal may be taken :
First. From a final judgment in an action or special proceeding
commenced in the court in which the same is rendered, within one year
after the entry of judgment. But an exception to the decision or verdict
on the ground that it is not supported by the evidence, can not be
reviewed on an appeal from the judgment unless the appeal is taken
within sixty days after the rendition of the judgment.
Second. From a judgment rendered on an appeal from an inferior
court, within ninety days after the entry of such judgment.
Third. From an order granting or refusing a new trial ; from an
order granting or dissolving an injunction ; from an order to grant or
dissolve an injunction ; from an yder dissolving or refusing to dissolve
an attachment ; from an order granting or refusing to grant a change
of the place of trial ; from any special order made after final judgment,
and from an interlocutory judgment in actions for partition of real
property, within sixty days after the order or interlocutory judgment is
made and entered in the minutes of the court or filed with the clerk.
Sec. 409. An appeal is taken by filing with the clerk of the court in
which the judgment or order appealed from is entered, a notice stating
the appeal from the same, or some specific part thereof, and serving a-
similar notice on the adverse party, or his attorney. The order of ser
vice is immaterial, but the appeal is ineffectual for any purpose unless,
within five days after service of the notice of appeal, an undertaking be
filed, or a deposit of money be made with the clerk, as hereinafter pro
vided, or the undertaking be waived by the adverse party in writing.
Sec. 410. The undertaking on appeal must be in writing, and must
be executed on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the
effect that the appellant will pay all damages and costs which may be
awarded against him on the appeal, or on a dismissal thereof, not
exceeding three hundred dollars, or that sum must be deposited with
the clerk with whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the
event of the appeal.
Sec. 411. If the appeal be from a judgment or order directing the
payment of money, it does not stay the execution of the judgment or
order, unless a written undertaking be executed on the. part of the
appellant, by two or more sureties, to the effect that they are bound in
double the amount named in the judgment or order ; that if the judg
ment or order appealed from, or any part thereof, be affirmed, or the
appeal be dismissed, the appellant will pay the amount directed to be
paid by the judgment or order, or the part of such amount as to which
the judgment or order is affirmed, if affirmed only in part, and all
damages and costs which may be awarded against the appellant upon
the appeal.
Sec. 412. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the assign
ment or delivery of documents or personal property, the execution of
the judgment or order shall not be stayed by appeal, unless the things
required to be assigned or delivered be placed in the custody of such
officer or receiver as the court may appoint ; or unless an undertaking
be entered into on the part of the appellant, with at least two sureties,
and in such amount as the court, or the judge thereof, may direct, to
the effect that the appellant will obey the order of the appellate court
upon the appeal.
Sec. 418. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the execu
tion of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment
or order shall not be stayed by the appeal until the instrument is
executed and deposited with the clerk with whom the judgment or order
is entered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.
Sec. 414. If the judgment or order appealed from direct the sale or
delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same can not
be stayed unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the
appellant, with two or more sureties, to the effect that during the
possession of such property by the appellant he will not commit or
suffer to be committed any waste thereon, and if the judgment be
affirmed, or the appeal dismissed, he will pay the value of the use and
occupation of the property from the time of the appeal until the delivery
of the possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not
exceeding a sum to be fixed by the judge of the court by which the
judgment was rendered or order made, and which must be specified in
the undertaking. When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged
premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the'
undertaking must also provide for the payment of such deficiency.
Sec. 415. Whenever an appeal is perfected as provided in the pre
ceding sections of this chapter, it stays all further proceedings in the
court below upon the judgment or order appealed from, or upon the
matters embraced therein, and releases from levy property which has
been levied upon under execution issued upon such judgment ; but the
court below may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action,
and not affected by the order appealed from ; and the court below may,
in its discretion, dispense with or limit the security required by this chapter, when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or
other person acting m another's right. An appeal does not continue in
force on an attachment unless an undertaking be executed and filed on
the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, in double the amount
of the debt claimed by him, that the appellant will pay all costs and
damages which the respondent may sustain by reason of the attach
ment, in case the order of the court below be sustained, and unless
within five days after the entry of the order appealed from such appeal
be perfected.
Sec. 416. The undertaking prescribed by sections 411, 412, 418 and
414, may be in one instrument or several, at the option of the appellant.
Sec. 417. An undertaking upon appeal shall be of no effect unless
it be accompanied by the affidavits of the sureties that they are each
worth the amount specified therein, over and above all their just debts
and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution, except
where the judgment exceeds three thousand dollars, and the under
taking is executed by more than two sureties, they may state in their
affidavits that they are severally worth amounts less than that expressed
in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to that of two
sufficient sureties. The adverse party, however, may except to the
sufficiency of the sureties to the undertaking or undertakings mentioned
in sections 411, 412, 418 and 414, at any time within thirty days after
the filing of such undertaking; and unless they, or other sureties,
within twenty days after the appellant, or appellants, shall have been
served with notice of such exception, justify before a judge of the court
below, a probate judge, or county clerk, upon five days' notice to the
appellaut, execution of the judgment or decree appealed from shall be
no longer stayed ; and in all cases where an undertaking is required on
appeal, by the provisions of this act, a deposit in the court below of the
amount of the judgment appealed from, and three hundred dollars in
addition, shall be equivalent to filing the undertaking ; and in all cases
the undertaking or deposit may be waived by the written consent of
the respondent.
Sec. 418. In cases not provided for in sections 410, 411, 412 and
413, the perfecting of an appeal by giving the undertaking, or mak
ing the deposit, mentioned m section 410, stays proceedings in the
court be}ow upon the judgment or order appealed from, except where
it directs the sale of perishable property, in which case the court below
may order the property to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be
deposited, to abide the judgment of the appellate court ; and except,
also, where it adjudges the defendant guilty of usurping, or intruding
into, or unlawfully holding public office, civil or military, within this
territory ; and except, also, where the order grants, or refuses to grant,
*a change of the place of trial of an action.
Sec. 419. When the party who has a right to appeal wishes a state
ment of the case to be annexed to the record of the judgment or order,
he shall, within twenty days after the entry of such judgment or order,
prepare such statement, which shall state specifically the particular
errors or grounds upon which he intends to rely on the appeal, and
shall contain so much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain
the particular errors or grounds specified, and file the same with the
clerk of the court, and give notice to the opposite party, or his attorney,
of such filing. The respondent may, within five days thereafter, pre
pare amendments to such statement, and file the same, and serve
notice thereof on the opposite party. The statement and amendments
which may be filed shall be presented to the judge, or court, upon
notice of two days to the opposite party, and a true statement shall
thereupon be settled by the judge, or court. If no amendments are
filed, the statement may be presented to the judge, or court, without
any notice to the respondent.
Sec. 420. If the party shall omit to make a statement within the
time above limited, he shall be deemed to have waived his right
thereto ; and when a statement is made, and the parties shall omit,
within the several times above limited, the one party to propose
anJendments, the other to notify an appearance before the judge, they
shall respectively be deemed, the former to have agreed to the state
ment as prepared, and the latter to have agreed to the amendments as
proposed ; but the judge who heard the cause shall, notwithstanding
such omission, or implied agreement, have power to correct any mis
statement of facts, or of his rulings, which such statement may con
tain.
Sec. 421. The several periods of time above limited may be enlarged,
upon good cause shown, by the judge before whom the cause was tried.
Sec. 422. The statement, when settled by the judge, shall be signed
by him, with his certificate that the same has been allowed, and is cor
rect ; when the statement is agreed upon by the parties, they or their
attorneys shall sign the same, with their certificate that it has been
agreed upon by them, and is correct. In either case, when settled or
agreed upon, it shall be filed with the clerk.
Sec. 423. A copy of the statement shall be annexed to a copy of so
much of the judgment roll as shall be included in the transcript on
appeal, if the appeal be from the judgment ; if the appeal be from an
order, to a copy of such order.
Sec. 424. The provisions of the last five preceding sections shall
not apply to appeals taken from an order made upon affidavit filed ;
but such affidavit shall be annexed to the order, in the place of the
statement mentioned in those sections.
Sec. 426. On appeal from a final judgment, the appellant shall fur
nish the court with a transcript of the notice of appeal, undertaking or
undertakings on appeal, the pleadings, or amended pleadings, as the
case may be, which form the issues tried in the case, the judgment, and
such other parts of the judgment roll, and no more, as are necessary
to present or explain the points relied on, and the statement, if there
be one, certified by the attorneys of the. parties to the appeal, or by the
clerk, to be correct. On appeal from a judgment rendered on an appeal,
or from an order, the appellant shall furnish the court with a copy of
the notice of appeal, undertaking or undertakings on appeal, the judg
ment or order appealed from, and a copy of the papers used on the hear
ing in the court below, such copies to be certified in like manner to be
correct. If any written opinions be placed on file, in rendering the
judgment or making the order in the court below, a copy shall be fur
nished. If the appellant fail to furnish the requisite papers, the
appeal may be dismissed.
Sec. 426. The dismissal of an appeal is in effect an affirmation of
the judgment or order appealed from, unless the dismissal is expressly
made without prejudice to another appeal.
Sec. 427. Upon an appea.1 from a judgment, the court may review
the verdict or decision, and any intermediate order or decision, excepted
to, which involves the merits or necessarily affects the judgment,
except a decision or order from which an appeal might have been
taken.
Sec. 428. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate
court may reverse, affirm; or modify the judgment or order appealed
from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to any
or all of the parties ; and may set aside, or confirm, or modify any or
all of the proceedings subsequent to, or dependent upon, such judg
ment or order, and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial.
When the judgment or order is reversed or modified, the appellate
court may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost
by the erroneous judgment or order, so far as such restitution is con
sistent with protection of a purchaser of property at a sale ordered by
the judgment, or had under process issued upon the judgment, on the
appeal from which the proceedings were not stayed ; and for relief in
such cases the appellant may have his action against the respondent,
enforcing the judgment for the proceeds of the sale of the property,
after deducting therefrom the expenses of the sale.
Sec. 429. Appeals in the supreme court may be brought to a hear
ing by either party, upon notice of three days to the opposite party.
Before the argument, each party shall furnish to the other, and each of
the justices, a copy of his points and authorities ; or either party may
file one copy thereof with the clerk, who shall cause the requisite
copies to be made.
Sec. 430. When judgment is rendered upon appeal, it shall be
certified by the clerk of the supreme court to the clerk with whom the
judgment roll is filed, or the order appealed from is entered. In cases
of appeal from the judgment, the clerk with whom the roll is filed
shall attach the certificate to the judgment roll, and enter a minute
of the judgment of the supreme court on the docket against the orig
inal entry. In cases of an appeal from an order, the clerk shall enter
at length in the records of the court the certificate received, and
minute against the entry of the order appealed from reference to the
certificate, with a brief statement that such order has been affirmed,
reversed, or modified, as the case may be, by the supreme court on
appeal.
CHAPTER II.
APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT FROM THE DISTRICT COURTS.
Sec. 431. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court.
First. From a final judgment.
Second. From an order granting or refusing a new trial, dec.
Sec. 431. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court from the
district courts in the following cases :
First. From a final judgment, or any part thereof, entered in an
action or special proceeding commenced in those courts, or brought
into those courts from other courts.
Second. From an order granting or refusing a new trial ; from an
order granting or dissolving an injunction ; from an order refusing to
grant or dissolve an injunction ; from an order dissolving or refusing
to dissolve an attachment ; from an order changing or refusing to
change the place of trial; from any special order made after final
judgment ; and from such interlocutory judgment in actions for parti
tions as determines the rights and interests of the respective parties,
and directs partition to be made.
Sec. 482. An appeal may be taken from a probate court to the dis
trict court of the district in which the probate court is held, in the
following cases :
First. From an order or decree admitting a will to probate or
refusing the same.
Second. From an order setting apart property or making an allow
ance for the widow or children.
Third. From an order granting letters testamentary or of adminis
tration, or appointing a guardian of an infant or of an insane person,
or of a person incompetent to manage his property, or refusing to
grant such letters or to make such appointment, or making such letters
of appointment.
Fourth. From an order directing the sale or conveyance of real
property.
Fifth. From an order or decree by which a debt, claim, legacy, or
distributive share is allowed, or payment thereof directed, or by which
such allowance or direction is refused.
Sixth. From an order made on the settlement of an executor,
administrator, or guardian.
Sec. 433. The appeal shall be taken within thirty days after the
order or decree appealed from is entered with the clerk.
Sec. 434. Appeals from the probate court shall be brought to a
hearing at the earliest period practicable. For the failure to prosecute
an appeal or unnecessary delay in bringing it to a hearing, the district
court may order the appeal to be dismissed.
Sec. 435. In cases other than those provided for in section 482,
any party feeling aggrieved by the judgment of the probate court in
any civil action may appeal therefrom to the district court for the
county in which said probate court is held, or to which it may be
attached for judicial purposes. The party appealing shall be known
as the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent.
Sec. 486. All appeals taken by virtue of the provisions of the last section shall be perfected within thirty days from the rendition of the
judgment appealed from, and shall be tried de novo, in said district court.
Sec. 437. The appeal shall be taken by filing with the clerk of the
court in which the judgment appealed from is entered, or with the
judge of said court, if there be no clerk, a notice stating the appeal
from the same, and serving a copy of such notice upon the adverse
party or his attorney.
Sec. 438. The party appealing shall file with the judge or clerk of
said court within five days from the filing of the notice of appeal, as
provided in the last section, an undertaking in double the amount of
the judgment appealed from, or if the judgment be for the recovery of
specific personal property, in double the value of sucli property, with
at least two sufficient sureties, and conditioned that the party appeal
ing will pay any judgment that may be rendered against him m the
district court, as well as all costs that may be awarded against him,
and for the prosecution of such appeal with effect.
Sec. 439. If the party appealing be the party in whose favor judg
ment was rendered, he shall likewise execute and file an undertaking
as aforesaid, in a sum equal to double the amount of the costs in the
case, conditioned to pay all costs that may be adjudged against him,
and for the prosecution of such appeal with effect.
Sec. 440. The undertaking provided for in the two preceding sec
tions shrill be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties that they
are residents of the county, and householders or freeholders thereof,
and each worth the amount specified in the undertaking, over and
above their debts, liabilities, and property by law exempt from execu
tion, but several sureties may state that they are worth less than the
amount mentioned in the undertaking, beside such exemptions, if the
whole amount equals the amount of two sufficient sureties.
Sec. 441. Within ten days after filing the notice of appeal and
undertaking provided for in the preceding sections, and payment of
fees therefor, the said judge or clerk of said court shall make a full and
complete transcript from the docket of all proceedings had in said
action, and transmit the same, together with the complaint, answer,
motions, pleadings, and all other papers pertaining to or belonging to
said cause, to the clerk of said district court.
Sec. 442. If an execution shall have been issued upon a judgment
appealed from, the judge or clerk of said court, upon receiving the
notice and undertaking, as hereinbefore provided, shall issue an order
directing the officer having such execution in his possession, or charged
with the execution of the same, to stay all proceedings thereunder.
Such officer, upon the payment of his fees for services rendered on
such execution, shall thereupon relinquish all property levied upon by
him, and deliver the same, together with all money collected from
sales or otherwise, to the judgment debtor.
Sec. 448. If the party appealing to the district court, as provided
in this act, shall fail to, reduce or enlarge the judgment appealed from,
ten dollars or more, or revise the same in said district court, he shall
not recover any of the costs of appeal.
Sec. 444. That all appeals taken by virtue of this act shall be tried
in the district court upon the papers in the cause, as if the same had
originally been instituted in said court, unless said court, upon such
terms as may be just, allow other papers to be filed therein, and both
appellant and respondent shall have the benefit of objection taken in
said probate court.
Sec. 445. That the sheriffs of the different counties of this territory
are charged with the execution of process issued from said probate
court, in like manner as provided for in cases in the district court, for
which services they shall receive fees as provided by law.
Sec. 446. When a judgment is recovered against one or more of
several persons jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding as
provided in section 75, those who were not originally served with the
summons, and did not appear to the action, may be summoned to show
cause why they should not be bound by the judgment in the same man
ner as though they had been originally served with the summons.
Sec. 447. The summons, as provided in the last section, shall
describe the judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause
why he should not be bound by it, and shall be served in the same man
ner, and returnable within the same tyne, as the original summons.
It shall not be necessary to file a new complaint.
Sec. 448. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the
plaintiff, his agent, representative or attorney, that the judgment, or
some part thereof, remains unsatisfied, and shall specify the amount
due thereon.
Sec. 449. Upon such summons, the defendant may answer within
the time specified therein, denying the judgment or setting up any
defence which may have arisen subsequently; or he may deny his
liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was recovered,
except a discharge from such liability by the statute of limitations.
Sec. 450. If the defendant in his answer deny the judgment or set
up any defence which may have arisen subsequently, the summons,
with the affidavit annexed, and the answer shall constitute the written
allegations in the case ; if he deny his liability on the obligation upon
which the* judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and
judgment, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer,
shall constitute such written allegations.
Sec. 451. The issues formed may be tried as in other cases, but
when the defendant denies in his answer any liability on the obligations
upon which the judgment is rendered, if a verdict be found against him,
it shall be for the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original judg
ment, with interest thereon.
CHAPTER H.
CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.
Sec. 452. Wheri and where judgment by confession may be entered.
Sec. 453. Statement to authorize entry of judgment.
Sec. 454. Statementfiled and entry of judgment.
Sec. 452. A judgment by confession may be entered without action,
either for money due or to become due, or to secure any person against
contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, m the manner
prescribed by this chapter. Such judgment may be entered in any
court having jurisdiction for like amounts.
Sec. 453. A statement in writing shall be made and signed by the
defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect :
First. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a specified sum.
Second. If it be for money due or to become due, it shall state con
cisely the facts out of which it arose, and shall show that the sum con
fessed therefor is justly due or to become due.
Third. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against a con
tingent liability, it shall state concisely the facts constituting the liabil
ity, and shall show that the sum confessed therefor does not exceed the
same.
Sec. 454. The statement shall be filed with the clerk of the court in
which the judgment is to be entered, who shall endorse upon it and
enter in the judgment book a judgment of such court for the amount
confessed, with costs. The statement and affidavit with the judgment
endorsed shall thereupon become the judgment roll.
CHAPTER III.
SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION.
Sec. 455. Agreed case, hmv submitted and judgment in.
Sec. 456. Entry of judgment.
Sec. 457. Enforcement of and appeal from such judgment.
Sec. 455. Parties to a question in difference which might be the sub
ject of a civil action, may without action agree upon a case containing
the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission
of the same to any court which should have jurisdiction if an action
had been brought ; but it must appear by affidavit that the controversy
is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the
parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the case and
render judgment thereon, as if an action were depending.
Sec. 456. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment book as in
other cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to the trial.
The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment, shall constitute
the judgment roll.
Sec. 457. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if
it had been rendered m an action, and shall be in the same manner
subject to appeal.
CHAPTER IV.
OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT TO COMPROMISE THE WHOLE OR PART OF
AN ACTION.
Sec. 458. Offer of compromise; how accepted and effect of.
Sec. 458. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or judg
ment, serve upon the plaintiff an offer to allow judgment to be taken
against him for the sum or property, or to the effect herein specified.
If the plaintiff accept the offer and give notice thereof within five days,
he may file the summons, complaint, and offer, with an affidavit of
notice of acceptance, and the clerk shall thereupon enter judgment
accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer shall
be deemed withdrawn and shall not be given in evidence ; and if the
plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he shall not recover
costs, but shall pay the defendant's costs from the time of the offer.
Sec. 459. Persons capable of contracting may submit to arbitration
any controversy which might be the subject of a civil action between
them, except a question of title to real property in fee or for life. This
qualification shall not include questions relating merely to the parti
tion or boundaries of real property.
Sec. 460. The submission to arbitration shall be in writing, and
may be to one or more persons.
Sec. 461. It may be stipulated in the submission that it be entered
as an order of the probate court or of the district court, for which
purpose it shall be filed with the clerk of the court. The clerk shall
thereupon enter into his register of actions a note of the submission,
with the names of the parties, the names of the arbitrators, the date
of the submission, when filed, and the time limited by the submission,
if any, within which the award shall be made. When so entered the
submission shall not be revoked without the consent of both parties.
The arbitrators may be compelled by the court to make an award, and
the award may be enforced by the court in the same manner as a
judgment. If the submission be not made an order of the court, it
may be revoked at any time before award is made.
Sec. 462. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time and place
for hearing; to adjourn from time to time; to administer oaths to
witnesses ; to hear allegations and evidence of the parties, and to make
award thereon.
Sec. 46.S. All the arbitrators shall meet and act together during
the investigation ; but when met, a majority may determine any ques
tion. Before acting they shall be sworn before an officer authorized to
administer oaths, faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the allega
tions and evidence of the parties in relation to the matter in contro
versy, and to make a just award according to their understanding.
Sec. 464. The award shall be in writing, signed by the arbitrators,
or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties. When the sub
mission is made an order of the court, the award shall be filed with
the clerk, and a note thereof made in his register. After the expira
tion of five days from the filing of the award, upon the application of a
party, and on filing an affidavit showing that notice of filing the award
has been served on the adverse party or his attorney, at least four
days prior to such application, and that no order staying the entry of
judgment has been served, the award shall be entered by the clerk in
the judgment book, and shall thereupon have the effect of a judgment.
Sec. 465. The court, on motion, may vacate the award upon either
of the following grounds, and may order a new hearing before the same
arbitrators, or not, at its direction :
First. That it was procured by corruption or fraud.
Second. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, or com
mitted gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the hearing
or refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or otherwise acted improperly,
in a manner by which the rights of the party were prejudiced.
Third. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making their
award ; or that they refused or improperly omitted to consider a part
of the matter submitted to them ; or that the award is indefinite, or
cannot be performed.
Sec. 466. The court may, on motion, modify or correct the award
where it appears :
First. That there was a miscalculation in figures upon which it was
made, or that there is a mistake in the description of some person or
property therein.
Second. When a part of the award is upon matters not submitted,
which part can be separated from other parts, and does not affect the
decision on the matters submitted.
Third. When the award, though imperfect in form, could have been
amended if it had been a verdict or the imperfection disregarded.
Sec. 467. The decision upon the motion shall be subject to appeal
in the same manner as an order which is subject to appeal in a civil
action ; but the judgment entered before motion is made shall not be
subject to appeal.
Sec. 468. If a submission to arbitration be revoked and an action
be brought therefor, the amount to be recovered shall only be the costs
and damages sustained in preparing for and attending the arbitration.
CHAPTER VI.
ORDERS AND MOTIONS.
Sec. 469. Orders and motions defined.
Sec. 470. Motions where made; notice of.
Sec. 471. Time in which written notice given.
Sec. 472. Hearing of may be transferred to another judge.
Sec. 473. Order to pay money enforced as an execution.
Sec. 469. Every direction of a court or judge made or entered in
writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An
application for an order is a motion.
Sec. 470. Motions shall be made in the county in which the action
is brought, or in any adjoining county in the same district : Provided,
however, That in case of the absence of the judge of the district from
his district, such motion may be made before the judge of any adjoin
ing district. Written notice of a motion, as provided in this act, shall
only be required in case of a motion made out of term time. Notice of
a motion made in term time, except those made during the progress of
a trial, shall be entered in a book to be kept for that purpose, and
called the "motion book;" and such motions shall be for hearing after
twenty-four hours from the time such notice is entered in the motion
book.
Sec. 471. When a written notice of a motion is necessary, it shall
be given, if the court be held in the same district with both parties,
five days before the time appointed for the hearing, otherwise ten days ;
but the court or judge may prescribe a shorter time.
Sec. 472. When a notice of motion is given, or an order to show
cause is made returnable before a judge out of court, and at the time
fixed for the motion, or on the return day of the order, the judge is
unable to hear the parties, the matter may be transferred by his order
to some other judge before whom it might originally have been
brought.
Sec. 473. Whenever an order for the payment of a sum of money is
made by a court, pursuant to the provisions of this code, it may be
enforced by execution in the same manner as if it were a judgment.
Sec. 474.
Sec. 475.
Sec. 476.
Sec. 477.
Sec. 478.
Sec. 479.
Sec. 480.
CHAPTER VII.
NOTICES, AND FILING AND SERVICE OF PAPERS.
To be in writing and served on party or attorney.
Manner of service.
Service by mail.
How served by mail; ivhen deemed complete.
Appearance of defendant; entitled to notice.
Service made on clerk for non-resident.
What the provisions of this chapter inapplicable to.
Sec. 474. Notice must be in writing, and notices and other papers
may be served upon the party or attorney in the manner prescribed in
this chapter, when not otherwise provided by this code.
Sec. 475. The service may be personal, by delivery to the party or
attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be as
follows :
First. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from
his office by leaving the notice or other papers with his clerk therein,
or with a person having charge thereof ; or when there is no person in
the office, by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the morning
and six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the office ; or if it
be not open so as to admit of such service, then by leaving them at
the attorney's residence with some person of suitable age and discre
tion ; and if his residence be not known, then by putting the same,
enclosed in an envelope, into the post office, directed to such attorney.
Second. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice
or other paper at his residence, between the hours of eight in the
morning and six in the evening, with some person of suitable age and
discretion ; and if his residence be not known, by putting the same,
enclosed in an envelope, into the post office, directed to such party.
Sec. 476. Service by mail may be made when the person making
the service and the person on whom it is to be made reside in different
places, between which there is a regular communication by mail.
Sec. 477. In case of service by mail the notice or other paper shall
be deposited in the post office, addressed to the person on whom it is
to be served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid. And
in such case the time of service shall be increased one day for
every twenty-five miles distance between the place of deposit and the
place of address : Provided, That service in any case shall be deemed
complete at the end of forty days from the date of its deposit in the
post office.
Sec. 478. A defendant shall be deemed to appear in action when
he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintiff a written notice of his
appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of an appearance for
him. After appearance, a defendant, or his attorney, shall be entitled
to notice of all subsequent proceedings of which notice is required
to be given. But when a defendant has not appeared, service of
notice or papers need not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned
for want of bail.
Sec. 479. When a plaintiff or a defendant who has appeared resides
out of the Territory and has no attorney in the action or proceed
ing, the service may be made on the clerk for him. But in all
cases where the party has an attorney in the action or proceeding, the
service of papers when required shall be upon the attorney instead
of the party, except of subpoenas, writs, and other process, issued in
the suit, and of papers to bring him into contempt.
Sec. 480. The foregoing provisions of this chapter do not apply to
the service of a summons or other process, or of any paper to bring a
party into contempt.
Sec. 481. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors shall be left to the agreement, express or implied, of the
parties ; but there shall be allowed to the prevailing party in any action
in the supreme court, district courts, and probate courts, his costs and
necessary disbursements in the action or special proceeding in the
nature of an action.
Sec. 482. Costs may be allowed, of course, to the plaintiff upon a
judgment in his favor, in the following cases :
First. In an action for the recovery of real property.
Second. In an action to recover the possession of personal property
when the value of the property amounts to fifty dollars or over. Such
value shall be determined by the jury, court, or referee by whom the
action is tried.
Third. In an action for the recovery of money or damages when
plaintiff recovers fifty dollars and over.
Fourth. In special proceedings in the nature of an action.
Sec. 488. When several actions are brought on one bond, under
taking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in writ
ing, or in any other case for the same cause of action, against several
parties who might have been joined as defendants in the same action,
no costs shall be allowed to the plaintiff in more than one of such
actions, which may be at his election, if the party proceeded against in
the other actions were, at the commencement of the previous action,
openly within the Territory ; but the disbursements of the plaintiff shall
be allowed to him in each action.
Sec. 484. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant, upon
a judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in section 482 of
this act, and in a special proceeding in the nature of an action.
Sec. 485. In other actions than those mentioned in section 482 of
this act, costs may be allowed or not ; and, if allowed, may be appor
tioned between the parties on the same or adverse sides, in the
discretion of the court ; but no costs shall be allowed in an action for
the recovery of money or damages when the plaintiff recovers less
than fifty dollars ; nor in an action to recover the possession of per
sonal property when the value of the property is less than fifty dollars.
Sec. 48G. When there are several defendants in the actions men
tioned in section 482 of this act, not united in interest, and making
separate defences by separate answers, and the plaintiff fails to recover
judgment against all, the court shall award costs to such of the defend
ants as have judgment in their favor.
Sec. 487. In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall be in
the discretion of the court :
First. When a new trial is ordered.
Second. When a judgment is modified.
Sec. 488. The fees of referees shall be eight dollars to each for
every day spent in the business of the reference ; but the parties may
agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon
such rate shall be allowed.
Sec. 489. In all cases of appeal from the judgment of probate
court or justice of the peace, when the judgment of such probate court
or justice of the peace shall be wholly affirmed or reversed, the party
succeeding shall recover from the opposite party his costs, not only in
the district court, but before the probate court or justice of the peace,
and shall have his execution therefor. When the judgment of the
court below shall be affirmed in part, then the court shall divide the
costs between the parties according to the justice of the case.
Sec. 490. When an application is made to a court or referee to
postpone a trial, the payment of the costs occasioned by the postpone
ment may be imposed, in the discretion of the court or referee, as a
condition of granting the same.
Sec. 491. When, on an action for the recovery of money only, the
defendant in his answer alleges that before the commencement of the
action he tendered to the plaintiff the full amount to which he was
entitled, and thereupon deposits in court for the plaintiff the amount
so tendered, and the allegation be found to be true, the plaintiff shall
not recover costs, but shall pay costs to the defendant.
Sec. 492. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, admin
istrator, or trustee of express trust, or a person expressly authorized
by statute, costs may be recovered as in action by and against a person
prosecuting or defending his own right ; but such costs shall by the
judgment be made chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or party
represented, unless the court shall direct the same to be paid by the
plaintiff or defendant, personally, for the mismanagement or bad faith
in the action for defence.
Sec. 493. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in a
special proceeding is brought before a court of higher jurisdiction for
a review in other way than by appeal, the same costs shall be allowed
as in causes on appeal, and may be collected by execution, or in such
manner as the court may direct, according to the nature of the case.
Sec. 494. The party in whose favor judgment is rendered, and who
claims his costs, shall deliver to the clerk of the court, within two days
after the verdict or decision of the court, a memorandum of the items
of his costs and necessary disbursements in the action or proceeding ;
which memorandum shall be verified by the oath of the party, or his
attorney, stating that the items are correct, and that the disbursements
have been necessarily incurred in the action or proceeding.
Sec. 495. But such memorandum need not include the legal fees
or costs of any officer of the court, or any witness' fees when an
affidavit of such witness' attendance is required by law to be made.
Sec. 496. If any party shall include in such memorandum any
item to which he is not entitled, or if any clerk, sheriff, referee, or
other officer shall include such item in the taxed costs, and a motion
to retax the same shall be made by the party against whom the same
is taxed, and if such motion to retax shall prevail, there shall be taxed,
as a part of the cost of such motion, a docket fee of $25, and judgment
therefor, with the other costs allowed by law, shall be entered against
the party, sheriff, referee, clerk, or other officer who so unlawfully
taxed the same, and the same may he off-set against any costs or
judgment in favor of the party or officer so improperly taxing such
cost, and against the party making such motion ; or if no such judg
ment exists, the court may direct that the party making such motion
have execution therefor.
Sec. 497. A party dissatisfied with the costs claimed may, within
ten days after notice of filing of the bill of costs, file a motion to have
the same taxed by the court in which the judgment was rendered, or
by the judge thereof, at chambers.
Sec. 498. Provided, however, That no allowance or charge shall be
made for the attendance of witnesses, unless the witness shall make
affidavit before the clerk of the number of days he or she actually
attended, and of the distance he or she shall have traveled, and that
such attendance was at the instance of one or both parties, or his, her,
or their attorney.
Sec. 499. Whenever costs are awarded to a party by an appellate
court, if he claims such costs he must, within thirty days after the
remittitur is filed with the clerk below, deliver to such clerk a memo
randum of his costs, verified as prescribed by the preceding section,
and thereafter he may have an execution therefor, as upon a judgment.
Sec. 500. The clerk shall include in the judgment entered up by
him any interest on the verdict or decision of the court, from the time
it was rendered or made, and the costs, if the same have been taxed or
ascertained, and he shall, within two days after the same shall be
taxed or ascertained, if not included in the judgment, insert the same
in a blank left in the judgment for that purpose, and shall make a
similar insertion of the costs in the copies and docket of the judgment.
Sec. 501. When a plaintiff in an action resides out of the Terri
tory, or is a foreign corporation, security for the costs and charges
which may be awarded against such plaintiff may be required by the
defendant. When required, all proceedings in the action shall be
stayed until an undertaking, executed by two or more persons, be filed
with the clerk, to the effect that they will pay such costs and charges
as may be awarded against the plaintiff by judgment, or in the
progress of the action, not exceeding the sum of three hundred dollars.
A. new or additional undertaking may be ordered by the court or judge,
upon proof that the original undertaking is insufficient security, and
proceedings in the action stayed until such new additional under
taking be executed and filed.
Sec. 502. After the lapse of thirty days from the service of notice
that security is required, or of an order that new or additional security is
required, upon proof thereof, and that no undertaking is required,
has been filed, the court or judge may order the action to be dismissed.
Sec. 503. That any person may commence and prosecute an action
in any of the courts of this Territory who will file an affidavit, stating
that he has a good cause of action, that he is unable to pay the costs
in money, or procure security to secure the same ; then it is hereby
made the duty of the officers of the courts to issue all writs, and serve
the same, without demanding or receiving their fees in advance.
Sec. 504. Whenever it shall be necessary for any Territorial dis
trict, or county officer to commence, prosecute, or defend any suit by
attachment, or otherwise, on behalf and in the name of the Territory
of Montana, under the provisions of any statute of this Territory,
such officer shall so commence, prosecute, or defend any such suit
without giving bond ; nor shall any such officer, when prosecuting any
suit on behalf of the Territory, or any county thereof, be required to
pay or deposit any fee or amount before or during the prosecution of
any such suit ; nor shall any officer so prosecuting or defending be
taxed with costs or damage, but such cost or damage, when such officer
shall fail to sustain his suit, shall be taxed to the said county or Ter
ritory, as the case may be.
Sec. 505. Each party to a civil action shall be required to pay the
fees fixed by law for the performance of any service or duty by any
officer of such court at the instance of such party at the time such
service is rendered, except in the case hereinbefore mentioned ; and no
such officer shall be required to perform such service or duty unless
the fees fixed therefor shall, on demand, be first paid or tendered.
Sec. 506. The supreme court, and each of the district courts, shall
respectively have power to make rules and regulations for governing
their practice and procedure in reference to all matters not provided
for by law.
Sec. 507. The judges of the supreme court, of the district courts,
and of the probate courts, shall have power, in any part of the Terri
tory, and justices of the peace within their respective counties shall
have power, to take and certify :
First. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of real prop
erty, or any other instrument required to be proved or acknowledged.
Second. An affidavit to be used in any court of justice in this Terri
tory.
Sec. 508. No action or proceeding in a court of justice shall be
affected by a vacancy in the office of all or any of the judges, or by a
failure of a term thereof.
Sec. 509. Every written proceeding in a court of justice in this
Territory, or before a judicial officer, shall be in the English language,
but such abbreviations as are now commonly used in that language
may be used, and numbers may be expressed by figures or numerals,
in the customary manner.
Sec. 510. Each of the following courts, and no others, shall have a
seal :
First. The supreme court.
Second. The district courts.
Third. The probate courts.
Sec. 511. The clerk of each court shall keep the seal thereof.
Sec. 512. The seal may be affixed by impressing it upon the paper,
or on a substance attached to the paper and capable of receiving the
impression.
Sec. 513. The courts of justice may be held, and judicial business
may be transacted, on any day except as provided in the next section.
Sec. 514. No court shall be opened, nor shall any judicial business
be transacted on Sundy, New Year's day, Fourth of July, Christmas
day, Washington's birthday, Thanksgiving day, or on a general elec
tion, except for the following purposes :
First. To give, upon their request, instructions to a jury then delib
erating on their verdict.
Second. To receive a verdict or discharge a jury.
Third. For the exercises of the powers of a magistrate in a criminal
action, or in a proceeding of a criminal nature.
Fourth. When it shall appear by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or
some one in his behalf, in cases for the recovery of specific personal
property, that the defendant is about to conceal, dispose of, or remove
such property out of the jurisdiction of the court, an order for taking
possession of the same may be issued on any day.
Fifth. When an application for a writ of attachment is made, and
it shall appear by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or some one in his
behalf, that the defendant is about to dispose of, conceal, or remove
property subject to execution or attachment, out of the jurisdiction of
the court, a writ of attachment may be issued on any day.
When the day fixed for the opening of a court shall fall on any of the
days mentioned in this section, the court shall stand adjourned until
the next succeeding day. When on the day appointed for the com
mencement of any term of the supreme or district court, the judges or
judge of such court being not present to hold the same, the clerk of the
court shall adjourn such term of court, from day to day, until the
expiration of one week from the day appointed for the commencement
of the term, noting such adjournment in the minutes each day ; and
if the judges or judge of such court be not then present to hold such term
on the day one week from the time appointed for such term to com
mence, the clerk shall adjourn the court for the term, and make an
entry on the minutes thereof. If the judges or judge shall appear on
any day to which the court has been adjourned by the clerk, as above
provided, the court shall proceed in the same manner and with the
same effect as if the judges or judge had been present and the court
had been regularly opened on the day appointed for the term to com
mence.
Sec. 515. Every court of justice, except a justice's court, shall sit
at the county seat of the county in which it is held, except as may be
otherwise provided by law. No justice of the peace shall hold a court
in any other county or city than the one for which he shall have been
elected.
Sec. 516. In an action brought against a sheriff for an act done by
virtue of his office, if he give written notice thereof to the sureties on
any bond of indemnity recieved by him, the judgment recovered therein
shall be sufficient evidence of his right to recover against such sureties ;
and the court or judge, in vacation, may, on motion, upon notice of
five days, order judgment to be entered up againBt them for the amount
so recovered, including costs.
Sec. 517. The clerk shall keep among the records of the court a
register of actions ; he shall enter therein a title of the action, with
brief notes under it from time to time of all papers filed and proceed
ings had therein.
Sec. 518. When there are three referees or three arbitrators, all
shall meet ; but two of them may do any act which might be done by all.
Sec. 519. The time within which an act is to be done, as provided
in this act, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last ; if the last day be Sunday it shall be excluded. When the
act to be done relates to the pleadings in the action, or the undertakings
to be filed, or the justification of sureties, or the service of notices other
than appeal, or the preparation of statement, or of bills of exceptions,
or of amendments thereto, the time allowed by this act may De ex
tended, upon good cause shown, by the court in which the action is
pending, or the judge thereof, or in the absence of such judge from the
county in which the action is pending, by the probate judge ; but such
extension shall not exceed thirty days beyond the time prescribed by
this act, without the consent of the adverse party.
Sec. 520. An affidavit, notice, or other paper, without the title of
the action or proceeding in which it is made, or with a defective title,
shall be as valid and effectual for any purpose as if duly entitled, if it
intelligibly refer to such action or proceeding.
Sec. 521. When a cause of action has arisen in another State or
Territory, or in a foreign country, and by the laws thereof an action
thereon can not be there maintained against a person by reason of
the lapse of time, an action thereon shall not be maintained against
him in this Territory, except in favor of a citizen thereof, who has
held the cause of action from the time that it accrued.
Sec. 522. Words used in this act in the present tense shall be
deemed to include the future as well as the present ; words used in the
singular number shall be deemed to include the plural, and the plural
the singular ; and words used to include the masculine gender, shall
include the feminine gender ; writing shall be deemed to include print
ing or printed paper ; oath to include affirmation or declaration ; signa
ture or subscription to include mark, when the person can not or is
unable to write, his name being written near it, and witnessed by a
person who writes his own name as a witness.
Sec. 523. In all cases where an undertaking by the provisions of
this act, is required, it shall be the duty of the person taking the same
to require the sureties to accompany the same with an affidavit that
they are each worth the sum specified in the undertaking, over and
above their just debts, liabilities, and property exempt by law from
execution : Provided, That when the amount specified in the under
taking exceed three thousand dollars, and there are more than two
sureties thereon, they may state in their affidavits that they are sever
ally worth amounts less than that expressed in the undertaking, if the
whole amount be equivalent to that of two sufficient sureties.
Sec. 524. Whenever property has been taken by an officer, under a
writ of attachment, in pursuance of the provisions of this act, and it
shall be made to appear satisfactorily to the court, or a judge thereof,
or a probate judge, that the interest of the parties to the action will be
subserved by a sale thereof, the court or judge may order such property
to be sold, in the same manner as property is sold under an execu
tion, and the proceeds to be deposited in court to abide the judgment
in the action. Such order shall be made only upon notice to the
adverse party or his attorney, in case such party has been personally
served with summons in the action.
Sec. 525. A copy of any record, or document, or paper in the
custody of a public officer of this Territory, or of the United States
within this Territory, certified under the official seal, or verified by
the oath of such officer to be a true, full, and correct copy of the
original in his custody, may be read in evidence in an action or
proceeding in the courts of this Territory, in the like manner, and
with the like effect, as the original could be if produced. The
receipt or certificate signed by the register or receiver of any United
States land office of the entry or purchase of any tract ok land, or of
any tract by any land warrant, is prima facie evidence in the courts of
this Territory that the title to the land mentioned or described in said
receipt or certificate, is in the person named therein, his heirs or
assigns.
Patents issued by the United States to lands in this Territory, or
duplicates thereof from the records in the general land office, and the
register's or receiver's receipt* or certificate mentioned in this section,
may be recorded in the registry of deeds of the county in which
the land described in the patent is situated, and the record of such
patents, or duplicates, or copies of such record, certified by the register
of deeds, shall be evidence in like manner, and to the same extent as
the records or transcripts thereof of other conveyances of real estate.
Sec. 526. The supreme court, the several district courts, and the
several probate courts of this Territory, shall be courts of record.
Sec. 527. The sittings of every court of justice shall be public,
except as provided in the next section.
Sec. 528. In an action for divorce the court may direct the trial of
any issue of fact joined therein to be private, and upon such direction
all persons may be excluded except the officers of the court, the
parties, their witnesses, and counsel.
Sec. 529. Every court shall have power :
First. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence.
Second. To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or before a
person or persons empowered to conduct a judicial investigation under
its authority.
Third. To compel obedience to its lawful judgments, orders, and
process, and to the lawful orders of its judge out of court in an action
or proceeding pending therein.
Fourth. To control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its min
isterial officers.
Sec. 530. A judge shall not act as such in any of the following
cases : In an action or proceeding to which he is a party, or in which
he is interested ; when he is related to either party by consanguinity
or affinity within the third degree ; or when he has been attorney or
counsel for either party in the action or proceeding.
Sec. 531. A judge shall* not act as attorney or counsel in a court in
which he is a judge, or in an action or proceeding removed therefrom
to another court for review, or in any action or proceeding from which
an appeal may lie in his own court.
Sec. 532. A judge of the supreme court, or of the district court,
shall not act as attorney or counsel in any court, except in an action in
which he is a party to the record.
Sec. 533. A judge or justice of the peace shall not have a partner
acting as attorney or counsel in any court in this Territory.
Sec. 534. If an application for an order, made to a judge of a court
in which the action or proceeding is pending, be refused, in whole or in
part, or be granted conditionally, no subsequent application for the
same order ahall be made to any other judge, except of a higher court :
Provided, That nothing in this section shall be so construed as to apply
to motions refused for any informalities in the papers or proceedings
necessary to obtain an order.
Sec. 535. A violation of the last section may be punished as a con
tempt, and an order made contrary thereto may be revoked by the
judge who made it, or vacated by a judge of a court in which the
action or proceeding is pending.
Sec. 536. The writ of certiorari may be denominated the writ of
review.
Sec. 537. This writ may be granted, on application, by any court of
this Territory except a justice's, probate, or mayor's court. The writ
shall be granted in all cases when an inferior tribunal, board, or officer
exercising judicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such
tribunal, board, or officer, and there is no appeal, nor, m the judgment
of the court, any plain, speedy, and adequate remedy.
Sec. 538. The application shall be made on affidavit by the party
beneficially interested ; and the court may require a notice of the appli
cation to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to show
cause why it should not be allowed, or may grant the writ without
notice.
Sec. 589. The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal, board,
or officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record or
proceedings to be certified ; when directed to a tribunal, the clerk, if
there be one, shall return the writ with the transcript required.
Sec. 540. The writ of review shall command the party to whom it is
directed to certify fully to the court issuing the writ, at a specified time
and place, and annex to the writ a transcript of the record and proceed
ings (describing or refering to them with convenient certainty), that
the same may be reviewed by the court ; and requiring the party in the
meantime to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be
reviewed.
Sec. 541. If a stay of proceedings be not attended, the words requir
ing the stay shall be omitted from the writ ; these words may be inserted
or omited, in the sound discretion of the court, but if omitted, the power
of the inferior court or officer shall not be suspended, nor in the pro
ceedings stayed.
Sec. 542. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a sum
mons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by the
court.
Sec. 543. The review upon this writ shall not be extended further
than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, board, or officer, has
regularly pursued the authority of such tribunal, board or officer.
Sec. 544. If the return of the writ be defective the court may order
a further return to be made. When a full return has been made the
court shall proceed to hear the parties, or such of them as may attend
for that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment either affirming or
annulling or modifying the proceedings below.
Sec. 545. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, shall be
transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or officer having the custody
of the record or proceedings certified up.
Sec. 546. A copy of the judgment signed by the clerk, entered upon
or attached to the writ and return, shall constitute the judgment roll.
If the proceeding be had in any other than the surpreme court, an
appeal may be taken from the judgment in the same manner apd upon
the same terms as from a judgment in a civil action.
CHAPTER II.
THE WRIT OF MANDATE OR MANDAMUS.
Sec. 547. Mandamus denominated mandate.
Sec. 548. By what authority and for what issued.
Sec. 549. In what cases and how issued.
Sec. 550. Forms of alternative and peremptory zvrits.
Sec. 551. When either writ issued and notice.
Sec. 552. On return of defendant may show cause.
Sec. 553. When question may he tried by a jury.
Sec. 554. Plaintiff not concluded by the answer.
Sec. 555. Motion for new trial.
Sec. 556. Clerk to transmit certified copy of verdict, etc.
Sec. 557. Hearing of the application.
Sec. 558. What judgment for applicant if he recover.
Sec. 559. Writ, how served.
Sec. 560. Power of court to punish disobedience.
Sec. 547. The writ of mandamus may be denominated the writ of
mandate.
Sec. 548. It may be issued by any court in this Territory, except a
justice's, probate, or mayor's court, to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person, to compell the performance of an act which the law
specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an office, trust, or station ;
or to compel the admisssion of a party to the use and enjoyment of a
right or office to which he is entitled, and from which he is unlawfully
precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person.
Sec. 549. The writ shall be issued in all cases where there is not a
plain, speedy, and edequate remedy in the ordinary course of law. It
shall be issued upon affidavit on the application of the party benefi
cially interested.
Sec. 550. The writ shall be either alternative or peremptory ; the
alternative writ shall state generally the allegation against the party to
whom it is directed, and command such party, immediately after the
receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, to do the act required
to be performed, or to show cause before the court, at a specified time
and place, why he has not done so. The peremptory writ shall be in a
similar form, except that the words requiring the party to show cause
why he has not done as commanded shall be omitted, and a return day
shall be inserted.
Sec. 551. When the application to the court is made without notice
to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the alternative shall be
first issued ; but if the application be upon due notice, and the writ be
allowed, the peremptory writ may be issued in the first instance. The
notice of the application, when given, shall be at least ten days. The
writ shall not be granted by default. The case shall be heard by the
court., whether the adverse party appear or not.
Sec. 552. On the return of the alternative, or the day on which the
application of writ is noticed, or such further day as the court may
allow, the party on whom the writ or notice shall have been served may
show cause by answer, under oath, made in the same manner as an
answer to a complaint in a civil action.
Sec. 553. If an answer is made which raises a question as to a mat
ter of fact essential to the determination of the motion, and affecting
the substantial rights of the parties, and upon the supposed truth of
the allegation on which the application for the writ is based, the court
may, in its discretion, order the question to be tried before a jury, and
postpone the argument until such trial can be had, and the verdict cer
tified to the court. The question to be tried shall be distinctly stated
in the order for trial, and the county shall be designated in which the
same shall be had. The order may also direct the jury to assess any
damages which the applicant may have sustained, in case they find for
him.
Sec. 554. On the trial the applicant shall not be precluded by the
answer of any valid objection to its sufficiency, and may countervail
it by proof, either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.
Sec. 555. The motion for a new trial must be made in the court in
which the issue of fact is tried.
Sec. 556. If no notice of a motion for a new trial be given, or, if given,
the motion be denied, the clerk, within five days after rendition of the
verdict or denial of the motion, must transmit to the court in which
the application for the writ is pending, a certified copy of the verdict
attached to the order of trial ; after which either party may bring on
the argument of the application, upon reasonable notice to the adverse
party.
Sec. 557. If no answer be made, the case must be heard on the
papers of the aplicant. If the answer raises only questions of law, or
puts in issue immaterial statements not affecting the substantial rights
of the parties, the court must proceed to hear, or fix a day for hearing,
the argument of the case.
Sec. 558. If judgment be given for the applicant, he shall recover
the damages which he shall have sustained, as found by the jury, or
as may be determined by the court, or referees upon a reference to be
ordered, together with costs ; and for such damages and costs an
execution may issue, and a peremptory mandate shall also be awarded
without delay,
Sec. 559. The writ must be served in the same manner as a sum
mons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by
order of the court. Service upon a majority of any of the members of
any board or body is service upon the board or body, whether at the
time of the service the board or body was in session or not. .
Sec. 560. When a peremptory mandate has been issued and directed
to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, if it appear to the
court that any member of such tribunal, corporation, board, or such
person upon whom the writ has been personally served, has, without
just cause, refused or neglected to obey the same, the court may, upon
motion, impose a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars. In case of
a persistence in a refusal of obedience, the court may order the party
to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding three months, and may make
any orders necessary and proper for the complete enforcement of the
writ.
CHAPTER III.
WRIT OF PROHIBITION.
Sec. 561. Writ defined; its use.
Sec. 562. By what authority and how issued.
Sec. 563. Writ either alternative or peremptory , form of.
Sec. 564. Provisions of preceding chapter applicable to.
Sec. 565. Writs of review, mandate and prohibition, return-able at any
time.
Sec. 501. The writ of prohibition is the counterpart of the writ of
mandate. It arrests the proceedings of any tribunal, corporation,
board, or person, when such proceedings are without, or in excess of,
the jurisdiction of such tribunal, corporation, board, or person.
Sec. 562. It may be issued by any court except police or justice's
courts, to an inferior tribunal, or to a corporation, board, or person, in
all cases where there is not a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy in
the ordinary course of law. It is issued upon affidavit, on the appli
cation of the person beneficially interested.
Sec. 563. The writ must be either alternative or peremptory. The
alternative writ must state generally the allegation against the party to
whom it is directed, and command such party to desist or refrain from
further proceedings in the action or matter specified therein, until the
further order of the court from which it is issued, and to show cause
before such court, at a specified time and place, why such party should
not be absolutely restrained from any further proceedings in such action
or matter. The peremptory writ must be in a similar form, except that
the words requiring the party to show cause why he should not be abso
lutely restrained, etc., must be omitted and a return day inserted.
Sec. 5'4. The provisions of the preceding chapter, except of the
four first sections thereof, apply to this proceeding.
Sec. 565. Writs of review, mandate, and prohibition, issued by the
supreme court, or by the district court, may be made returnable and a
hearing thereon be had at any time.
Sec. 566. The following acts or omissions, in respect to a court of
justice, or proceedings therein, are contempts of the authority of the
court:
First. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards the
judge while holding court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial
or other judicial proceeding.
Second. A breach of peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturb
ance, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial
proceeding.
Third. Misbehavior in office or other willful neglect or violation of
duty by an attorney, counsel, clerk, sheriff, coroner, or other person
appointed or elected to perform a judicial or ministerial service.
Fourth. Deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of the court
by a party to an action or special proceeding.
Fifth. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order, or process of the
court.
Sixth. Assuming to be an officer, attorney, counsel of a court, and
acting as such without authority.
Seventh. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of an
officer by virtue of an order or process of such court.
Eighth. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action while
going to, remaining at, or returning from, the court where the action is
on the calendar for trial.
Ninth. Any other unlawful interference with the process or proceed
ings of a court.
Tenth. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be
sworn or answer as a witness.
Eleventh. When summoned as a juror in a court, neglecting to
attend or serve as such, or improperly conversing with a party to an
action to be tried at such court, or with any other person, in relation to
the merits of such action, or receiving a communication from a party
or other person in respect to it, without immediately disclosing the same
to the court.
Twelfth. Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magistrate, or officer,
of the lawful judgment, order, or process of a superior court, or pro
ceeding in an action or special proceeding contrary to law, after such
action or special proceeding is removed from the jurisdiction of such
inferior tribunal, magistrate, or officer. Disobedience of the lawful
orders or process of a judicial officer is also a contempt of the authority
of such officer.
Sec. 567. Every person dispossessed or ejected from or out of any
real property, by the judgment or process of any court of competent
jurisdiction, and who, not having the right so to do, re-enters into or
upon, or takes possession of, any such real property, or induces or pro
cures any person not having the right so to do, or aids or abets him
therein, is guilty of a contempt of the court by which such judgment
was rendered, or from which such process issued. Upon a conviction
of such contempt the court or justice of the peace must immediately
issue an alias process, directed to the proper officer, and requiring him
to restore the party entitled to the possession of such property, under
the original judgment or process, to such possession.
Sec. 568. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view
and presence of the court or judge at chambers, it may be punished
summarily, for which an order shall be made reciting.the facts as occur
ring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging that the person
proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he be pun
ished as therein prescribed. When the contempt is not committed in
the immediate view and presence of the court or judge at chambers, an
affidavit shall be presented to the court or judge of the facts consti
tuting the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the referees or arbi
trators.
When the contempt is Hot committed in the immediate view and
presence of the court or judge, a warrant or attachment may be issued
to bring the person charged to answer ; or, without a previous arrest, a
warrant of commitment may, upon notice or upon an order to show
cause, be granted, and no warrant of commitment shall be issued with
out such previous attachment to answer, or such notice or order to
show cause.
Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued pursuant to this chapter,
the court or judge shall direct, by an endorsement on such warrant,
that the person charged may be let to bail for his appearance, in an
amount to be specified in such endorsement.
Sec. 569. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the sheriff
shall keep the person in custody, bring him before the court or judge,
and detam him until an order may be made in the premises, unless the
person arrested entitle himself to bo discharged, as provided in the next section.
Sec. 570. When a direction to let a person arrested to bail is con
tained in the warrant of attachment, or endorsed thereon, he shall be
discharged from the arrest upon executing and delivering to the officer,
at any time before return day of the warrant, a written undertaking,
with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the person arrested will
appear on return of the warrant, and abide the order of the court or
judge thereon, or they will pay, as may be directed, the sum specified in
the warrant.
Sec. 571. The officer shall return the warrant of arrest and under'
taking, if any, received by him from the person arrested, by the return
day specified therein.
Sec. 572. When the person arrested has been brought up Of
appeared, the court or judge shall proceed to investigate the charge,
and shall hear any answer which the person arrested may make to the
same, and may examine witnesses for or against him, for which an
adjournment may be had from time to time, if necessary.
Sec. 573. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the court or judge
shall determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the
contempt charged, and if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt
a fine may be imposed upon him, not exceeding five hundred dollars.
Sec. 574. When the contempt consists in the omission to perform
an act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be
imprisoned until he shall have performed it, and in that case the act
shall be specified in the warrant of commitment.
Sec. 575. Persons proceeded against according to the provisions of
this chapter shall also be liable to indictment for the same misconduct,
if it be an indictable offence ; but the court before which a conviction
is had on the indictment, in passing sentence, shall take into considera
tion the punishment before inflicted.
Sec. 576. When the warrant of arrest has been returned served, if
the person arrested does not appear on return day, the court or judge
may issue another warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be
prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of
damages in the action shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained
by the aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for which the war
rant was issued, and the costs of the proceedings.
Sec. 577. Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, an officer is
required to keep a person, arrested on a warrant of attachment, in cus
tody, and to bring him before a court or judge, the inability, from
illness or otherwise, of the person to attend, shall be a sufficient excuse
for not bringing him up ; and the officer shall not confine a person,
arrested upon the warrant, in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of per
sonal liberty, except so far as may be necessary to secure his personal
attendance.
Sec. 578. The judgment and order of the court or judge, made in
cases of contempt, shall be final and conslusive. The punishment
shall be by fine and imprisonment, but no fine shall exceed the sum of
five hundred dollars.
Sec. 579. Eminent domain is the right of the people or government
to take private property for public use. This right may be exercised in
the manner provided in this Title.
Sec. 580. Subject to the provisions of this Title eminent domain may
be exercised in behalf of the following public uses :
First. Public buildings and grounds for the use of the Territory,
and all other public uses authorized by the legislature of this Terri
tory.
Second. Public buildings and grounds for the use of any county,
incorporated city, or city and county, village, town, or school districts ;
canals, aqueducts, flumes, ditches, or pipes for conducting water for the
use of the inhabitants of any county, incorporated city, or city and
county, village or town ; or for draining any county, incorporated city,
or city and county, village, or town; raising the banks of streams,
removing obstructions therefrom, and widening, deepening, or straight
ening their channels ; roads, streets, and alleys, and all other public
uses for the benefit of any county, incorporated city, or city and county,
village, or town, or the inhabitants thereof, which may be authorized
by the legislature ; but the mode of apportioning and collecting the
costs of such improvements shall be such as may be provided in the
statutes by which the same may be authorized.
Third. Wharves, docks, piers, chutes, booms, ferries, bridges, tollroads,
by-roads, plank and turnpike roads, steam and horse railroads ;
canals, ditches, flumes, aqueducts, and pipes for public transportation,
supplying mines and farming neighborhoods with water, and draining
and reclaiming lands, and for floating lumber and logs on streams not
navigable.
Fourth. Roads, tunnnels, ditches, flumes, pipes, and dumping places
for working mines ; also, outlets, natural or otherwise, for the flow,
deposit, or conduct of tailings or refuse matter from mines ; also, an
occupancy in common by the owners or possessors of different mines
of any place for the flow, deposit, or conduct of the tailings or refuse
matter from their several mines.
Fifth. By-roads leading to residences and farms.
Sixth. Telegraph lines.
Seventh. Sewerage of an incorporated city, or city and county, or of
any village or town, whether incorporated or unincorporated, or of any
settlement consisting of not less than ten families, or of any public
buildings belonging to the state, or to any college or university.
Sec. 581. The following is a classification of the estates and rights
in lands subject to be taken for public use :
First. A fee-simple, when taken for public buildings or grounds, or
for permanent buildings, for reservoirs and dams and permanent flood
ing occasioned thereby, or for an outlet for a flow, or a place for the
deposit of debris or tailings of a mine.
Second. An easement when taken for any other use.
Third. The right of entry upon, and occupation of, lands, and the
right to take therefrom such earth, gravel, stones, trees, and timber as
may be necessary for some public use.
Sec. 582. The private property which may be taken under this Title includes :
First. All real property belonging to any person.
Second. Property appropriated to public use; but such property
shall not be taken unless for a more necessary public use than that to
which it has been already appropriated.
Third. Franchises for toll-roads, toll-bridges, and ferries, and all
other franchises ; but such franchises shall not be taken unless for free
highways, railroads, or other more necessary use.
Fourth. All rights of way for any and all the purposes mentioned in section 580, and any and all structures and improvements thereon, and
the lands held or used in connection therewith, shall be subject to be
connected with, crossed or intersected by, any other right of way or
improvements, or structures thereon. They Shall also be subject to a
limited use, in common with the owner thereof, when necessary ; but
6uch uses, crossings, intersections, and connections shall be made in
manner most compatible with the greatest public benefit and least
private injury.
Fifth. All classes of private property not enumerated may be taken
for public use, when such taking is authorized by law.
Sec. 583. Before property can be taken it must appear :
First. That the use to which it is to be applied is a use authorized
by law.
Second. That the taking is necessary to such use.
Third. If already appropriated to some public use, that the public
use to which it is to be applied is a more necessary public use.
Sec. 584. In all cases where land is required for public use, the
Territory, or its agents in charge of such use, may survey and locate
the same ; but it must be located in the manner which will be most
compatible with the greatest public good and the least private injury,
and subject to the provisions of section 689. The Territory, or its
agents in charge of such public use, may enter upon the land and make
examination, surveys, and maps thereof, and such entry shall consti
tute no cause of action in favor of the owners of the land, except for
injuries resulting from negligence, wantonness, or malice.
Sec. 585. All proceedings under this title muBt be brought in the
district court for the county in which the property is situated. They
must be commenced by filing a complaint and issuing a summons
thereon.
Sec. 586. The complaint must contain :
First. The name of the corporation, association, commission, or
person in charge of the public use for which the property is sought,
who must be styled plaintiffs.
Second. The names of all owners and claimants of the property, if
known, or a statement that they are unknown, who must be styled
defendants.
Third. A statement of the right of the plaintiff.
Fourth. If a right of way be sought, the complaint must show the
location, general route, and termini, and must be accompanied by sur
veys and maps thereof.
Fifth. A description of each piece of land sought to be taken, and
whether the same includes a whole or only a part of an entire parcel or
tract.
Sixth. All parcels lying in the county, and required for the same
public use, may be included in the same or separate proceedings, at
the option of the plaintiff ; but the court may consolidate or separate
them, to suit the convenience of parties. When application for the
condemnation of a right of way for the purpose of sewerage is made on
behalf of a settlement, or of an incorporated village or town, the pro
bate judge alone must be named as plaintiff.
Sec. 587. The clerk must issue a summons, which must contain the
names of the parties, a general description of the whole property, a
statement of the public use for which it is sought, and a reference to
the complaint for descriptions of the respective parcels, and a notice to
the defendants to appear and show cause why the property described
should not be condemned as prayed for in the complaint. In all other
particulars, it must be m the form of a summons in civil actions, and
must be served in like manner.
Sec. 588. All persons in occupation of, or having or claiming an
interest in, any of the property described in the complaint, or in the
damages for the taking thereof, though not named, may appear, plead
and defend, each in respect to his property or interest, or that claimed
by him, in like manner as if named in the complaint.
Sec. 589. The court shall have power :
First. To regulate and determine the place and manner of making
connections and crossings ; of enjoying the common use mentioned in
the fifth sub-division of section 582.
Second. To hear and determine all adverse or conflicting claims to
the property sought to be condemned, and to the damages therefor.
Third. To determine the respective rights of different parties seeking
condemnation of the same property.
Sec. 590. The court, jury, or referee, must hear such legal testi
mony as may be offered by any other of the parties to the proceedings,
and thereupon must ascertain and assess :
First. The value of the property sought to be condemned, and all
improvements thereon pertaining to the realty, and of each and every
separate estate or interest therein ; if it consists of different parcels,
the value of each parcel and each estate or interest therein shall be
separately assessed.
Second. If the property sought to be condemned constitutes only a
part of a larger parcel, the damages which will accrue to the portion
not sought to be condemned, by reason of its severance from the por
tion sought to be condemned, and the construction of the improve
ments in the manner proposed by the plaintiff.
Third. Separately, how much the portion not sought to be con
demned, and each estate or interest therein, will be benefitted, if at all,
by the construction of the improvement proposed by the plaintiff ; and
if the benefit shall be equal to the damages assessed under sub-division
two, the owner of the parcel shall be allowed no compensation except
the value of the portion taken ;* but if the benefit shall be less than the
damages so assessed, the former slmll be deducted from the latter, and
the remainder shall be the only damages allowed in addition to the
value.
Fourth. If the property sought to be condemned be for a railroad,
the cost of good and sufficient fences along the line of such railroad,
and the cost of cattle guards where fences may cross the line of such
railroad.
Fifth. As far as practicable, compensation must be assessed for
each source of damage separately.
Sec. 591. For the purpose of assessing compensation and damages,
the right thereto shall be deemed to have accrued at the date of the
summons, and its actual value at that date shall be the measure of
compensation for all property to be actually taken, and the basis of
damages to property not actually taken, but injuriously affected, in all
cases where such damages are allowed as provided in section 590.
If an order be made letting the plaintiff into possession, as provided
in section 596, the compensation and damages awarded shall draw law
ful interest from the date of such order. No improvements put upon
the property subsequent to the date of the service of summons shall be
included in tbe assessment of compensation or damages.
Sec. 592. If the title attempted to be acquired is found to be defec
tive from any cause, the plaintiff may agam institute proceedings to
acquire the same, as in this Title prescribed.
Sec. 598. The plaintiff must, within thirty days after final judg
ment, pay the sum of money assessed ; but may, at the time of or
before payment, elect to build the fences and cattle guards, and if he so
elect, shall execute to the defendant a bond, with sureties to be approved
by the court, in double the assessed costs of the same, to build such
fences and cattle guards within eighteen months from the time the
railroad is built on the land taken, and if such bond be given, need not
pay the costs of such fences and cattle guards. In an action on such
bond the plaintiff may recover reasonable attorney's fees.
Sec. 594. Payment may be made to the defendants entitled thereto,
or the money may be deposited in court for the defendants, and be dis
tributed to those entitled thereto. If the money be not so paid or
deposited, the defendants may have execution, as in civil cases, and if
the money cannot be made on execution, the court, upon a showing to
that effect, must set aside and annul the entire proceedings and restore
possession of the property to the defendant, if possession has been
taken by the plaintiff.
Sec. 595. When payments have been made and the bond given, if
the plaintiff elects to give one, as required by the last two sections, the
court must make a final order of condemnation, which must describe
the property condemned and the purpose of such condemnation. A
copy of the order must be filed in the office of the recorder of the
county, and thereupon the property described therein shall vest in the
plaintiff for the purposes therein specified.
Sec. 596. At any time after service of summons, the court may
authorize the plaintiff, if already in possession, to continue therein ;
and if not, then to take possession of and use the property during the
pendency and until the final conclusion of such proceedings, and may
stay all actions and proceedings against the plaintiff on account thereof ;
but the plaintiff must give security, to be approved by such court or
judge, to pay as well the compensation in that behalf, when ascer
tained, as all damages which may be sustained by the defendant, if for
any cause the property shall not be finally taken for public use.
Sec. 597. Costs may be allowed or not, and if allowed, may be
apportioned between the parties on the same or adverse sides, in the
discretion of the court.
Sec. 598. The direct evidence- of one witness, who is entitled to
full credit, is sufficient for proof of any fact, except perjury and
treason.
Sec. 599. A witness can testify of those facts only which he knows
of his own knowledge—that is, which are derived from his own per
ceptions—except in those few express cases in which his opinions, or
inferences, or the declarations of others are admissible.
Sec. 600. A witness can be heard only upon oath or affirmation,
and upon a trial he can be heard only in the presence, and subject to
the examination, of all the parties, if they choose to attend and
examine.
Sec. 601. A witness is presumed to speak the truth. This pre
sumption, however, may be repelled by the manner in which he testi
fies, by the character of his testimony, or by evidence affecting his
character for truth, honesty, or integrity, or his motives, or by con
tradictory evidence, and the jury are the exclusive judges of his credi
bility.
Sec. 602. The rights of a party cannot be prejudiced by the declara
tion, act, or omission of another, except by virtue of a particular rela
tion between them ; therefore, proceedings against one cannot affect
another.
Sec. 608. Where, however, one derives title to real property from
another, the declaration, act, or omission of the latter while holding
the title in relation to the property, is evidence against the former.
Sec. 604. Where, also, the declaration, act or omission forms part
of a transaction, which is itself the fact in dispute, or evidence of that
fact, such declaration, act or omission is evidence as part of the trans
action.
Sec. 605. And where the question in dispute between the parties is
the obligation or duty of a third person, whatever would be the evi
dence for or against such person, is prima facie evidence between the
parties.
Sec. 606. The declaration, act, or omission of a member of a fam
ily, who is a decedent, or out of the jurisdiction, is also admissible
as evidence of common reputation, in cases where, on questions of
pedigree, such reputation is admissible.
Sec. 607. The declaration, act, or omission of a decedent, having
sufficient knowledge of the subject, against his pecuniary interest, is
also admissible as evidence to that extent against his successor in
interest.
Sec. 608. When part of an act, declaration, conversation, or writing
is given in evidence by one party, the whole on the same subject may
be inquired into by the other ; when a letter is read, the answer may
be given; and when a detached act, declaration, conversation, or
writing is given in evidence, any other act, declaration, conversation,
or writing which is necessary to make it understood, may also be given
in evidence.
Sec. 609. There can be no evidence of the contents of a writing,
other than the writing itself, except in the following cases :
First. When the original has been lost or destroyed, in which case
proof of the loss or destruction must first be made.
Second. When the original is in the possession of the party against
whom the evidence is offered, and he fails to produce it after a reason
able notice.
Third. When the original is a record or other document in the cus
tody of a public officer.
Fourth. When the original has been recorded and a certified copy
of the record is made evidence by this code or other statute.
Fifth. When the original consists of numerous accounts or other
documents which cannot be examined in court, without great loss of
time, and the evidence sought from them is only the general result of
the whole.
In the cases mentioned in sub-divisions three and four, a copy of the
original, or of the record, must be produced ; in those mentioned in
sub-divisions one and two, either a copy or oral evidence of the con
tents.
Sec. 610. When the terms of an agreement have been reduced to
writing by the parties, it is to be considered as containing all those
terms, and, therefore, there can be, between the parties and their repre
sentatives or successors in interest, fno evidence of the terms of the
agreement other than the contents of the writing, except in the follow
ing cases :
First. Where a mistake or imperfection of the writing is put in issue
by the pleadings.
Second. Where the validity of the agreement is the fact in dispute.
But this section does not exclude other evidence of the circumstances
under which the agreement was made, or to which it relates, as defined
in section 614 ; or to explain an extrinsic ambiguity, or to establish
illegality or fraud. The term agreement includes deeds and wills, as
well as contracts between parties.
Sec. 611. The language of a writing is to be interpreted according
to the meaning it bears in the place of its execution, unless the parties
have reference to a different place.
Sec. 612. In the construction of a statute or instrument, the office
of the judge is simply to ascertain and determine what is, in terms or
in substance, contained therein—not to insert what has been omitted,
or to omit what has been inserted ; and where there are several provis
ions or particulars, such a construction is, if possible, to be adopted,
as will give effect to all.
Sec. 613. In the construction of a statute, the intention of the
legislature, and in the construction of the instrument, the intention of
the parties is to be pursued, if possible ; and when a general and a par
ticular provision are inconsistent, the latter is paramount to the
former. So a particular intent will control a general one that is incon
sistent with it.
Sec. 614. For the proper construction of an instrument, the cir
cumstances under which it was made, including the situation of the
subject of the instrument and of the parties to it, may also be shown, so
that the judge be placed in the position of those whose language he is
to interpret.
Sec. 615. The terms of a writing are presumed to have been used
in their primary and general acceptation, out evidence is, nevertheless,
admissible that they have a local, technical, or otherwise peculiar
signification, and were so used and understood in the particular
instance, in which case the agreement must be construed accordingly.
Sec. 616. When an instrument consists partly of written words
and partly of a printed form, and the two are inconsistent, the former
controls the latter.
Sec. 617. When the characters in which an instrument is written
are difficult to be deciphered, or the language of the instrument is not
understood by the court, the evidence of persons skilled in deciphering
the characters, or who understand the language, is admissible to
declare the characters or the meaning of the language.
Sec. 618. When the terms of an agreement have been intended in
a different sense by the different parties to it, that sense is to prevail
against either party in which he supposed the other understood it ; and
when different constructions of a provision are otherwise equally
proper, that is to be taken which is most favorable to the party in
whose favor the provision was made.
Sec. 619. A written notice, as well as every other writing, is to be
construed according to the ordinary acceptation of its terms. Thus, a
notice to the drawers or endorsers of a bill of exchange or promissory
note that it has been protested for want of acceptance or payment,
must be held to import that the same has been duly presented for
acceptance or payment, and the same refused, and that the holder
looks for payment to the person to whom the notice is given.
Sec. 620. When a statute or instrument is equally susceptible of
two interpretations, one in favor of natural right, and the other against
it, the former is to be adopted.
Sec. 621. None but a material allegation need to be proved.
Sec. 622. Evidence must correspond with the substance of the mate
rial allegations, and be relevant to the question in dispute. Collateral
questions must therefore be avoided. It is, however, within the dis
cretion of the court to permit inquiry into a collateral fact when such
fact is directly connected with the question in dispute, and is essential
to its proper determination, or when it affects the credibility of a
witness.
Sec. 628. Each party must prove his own affirmative allegations.
Evidence need not be given in support of a negative allegation, except
when such negative allegation is an essential part of the statement of
the right or title on which the cause of action or defence is founded ;
not even in such case, when the allegation is a denial of the existence
of a document, the custody of which belongs to the opposite party.
Sec. 624. In conformity with the preceding provisions, evidence
may be given upon a trial of the followmg facts :
First. The precise fact in dispute.
Second. The act, declaration or omission of a party as evidence
against such party.
Third. An act or declaration of another, in the presence and within
the observation of a party, and his conduct in relation thereto.
Fowrth. The act or declaration, verbal or written, of a deceased
person in respect to the relationship, birth, marriage, or death of
any person related by blood or marriage to such deceased person ; the
act or declaration of a deceased person done or made against his inter
est in respect to his real property ; and also in criminal actions the act
or declaration of a dying person, made under a sense of impending
death, respecting the cause of his death.
Fifth. After proof of a partnership or agency, the act or declara
tion of a partner or agent of the party, within the scope of the part
nership or agency, and during its existence. The same rule applies to
the act or declaration of a joint owner, joint debtor, or other person
jointly interested with the party.
Sixth. After proof of a conspiracy, the act or declaration of a con
spirator against his co-conspirator, and relating to the conspiracy.
Seventh. The act, declaration, or omission forming part of a trans
action, as explained in section 604.
Eighth. The testimony of a witness deceased, or out of the juris
diction, or unable to testify, given in a former action between the same
parties, relating to the same matter.
Ninth. The opinion of the witness respecting the identity oi[ hand
writing of a person when he has knowledge of the person or handwrit
ing ; his opinion on a question of science, art, or trade, when he is
skilled therein.
Tenth. The opinion of a subscribing witness to a writing, the valid
ity of which is in dispute, respecting the mental sanity of the signer,
and the opinion of an intimate acquaintance respecting the mental
sanity of a person, the reason of the opinion being given.
Eleventh. Common reputation existing previous to the controversy
respecting facts of a general or public interest more than thirty years
old, and in cases of pedigree and boundary.
Twelfth. Usage, to explain the true character of an act, contract, or
instrument, where such true character is not otherwise plain ; but
usage is never admissible except as an instrument of interpretation.
Thirteenth. Monuments and inscriptions in public places as evi
dence of common reputation; and entries in family bibles or other
family books or charts, engravings on rings, family portraits, and the
like, as evidence of pedigree.
Fourteenth. The contents of a writing, when oral evidence thereof
is admissible.
Fifteenth. Any facts from which the facts in issue are presumed, or
are logically inferable.
Sixteenth. Such facts as served to show the credibility of a witness,
as explained in section 601.
Sec. 625. Courts take judicial notice of the following facts :
First. The true signification of all English words and phrases, and
all legal expressions.
Second. Whatever is established by law.
Third. Public and private official acts of the legislature, executive,
and judicial departments of this Territory, and of the United States.
Fourth. The seals of all the courts of this Territory, and of the
United States.
Fifth. The accession to office, and the official signatures and seals
of office, of the principal officers of government in the legislature,
executive and judicial departments of this Territory and the United
States.
Sixth. The existence, title, national flag, and seal of every State
or sovereign recognized by the executive power of the United States.
Seventh. The seals of courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdic
tion, and of notaries public.
Eighth. The laws of nature, the measure of time, and the geo
graphical divisions and political history of the world.
In all the cases the court may resort, for its aid, to appropriate books
or documents of reference.
CHAPTER II.
WITNESSES.
Sec. 626. Who may be witnesses.
Sec. 627. When persons not allowed to testify under provisions of last section.
Sec. 628. Persons disqualified as witnesses.
Sec. 629. What persons holding confidential relations cannot testify.
Sec. 630. Official communications.
Sec. 631. Judge or juror may be called as witness.
Sec. 632. Interpreter; how summoned, sworn, or punished for contempt,
and his compensation.
Sec. 626. All persons, without exception otherwise than is specified
in the next two sections, who, having organs of sense, can perceive,
and, perceiving, can make known their perceptions to others, may be
witnesses. Therefore, neither parties nor other persons who have an
interest in the event of an action or proceeding are excluded, nor those
who have been convicted of crime, nor persons on account of their
opinions on matters of religious belief; although in every case the
credibility of the witnesses may be drawn in question, as provided in section 601.
Sec. 627. No person shall be allowed to testify, under provision of
the last section, where the adverse party, or the party for whose imme
diate benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended, is the
representative of a deceased person, when the facts to be proved trans
pired before the death of such deceased person ; and nothing in said section shall affect the laws in relation to attestation of any instrument
required to be attested ; nor shall anything contained in said section
render any person, who, in a criminal proceeding, is charged with the
commission of any public offence, competent or compellable to give
evidence therein for or against himself.
Sec. 628. The following persons shall not be witnesses :
First. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their produc
tion for examination.
Second. Children under ten years of age, who, in the opinion of the
court, appear incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts
respecting which they are examined, or of relating them truly.
Third. Persons against whom judgment has been rendered upon a
conviction for a felony, unless pardoned by the governor, or such judg
ment has been reversed on appeal.
Sec. 629. There are particular relations in which it is the policy of
the law to encourage confidence, and to preserve it inviolate ; therefore
a person cannot be examined as a witness in the following cases :
First. A husband cannot be examined for or against his wife with
out her consent, nor a wife for or against her husband without his con
sent ; nor can either, during the marriage or afterwards, be, without
the consent of the other, examined as to any communication made by
one to the other during the marriage ; but this exception does not apply
to a civil action or proceeding by one against the other, nor to a crimi
nal action or proceeding for a crime committed by one against the
other.
Second. An attorney or counselor shall not, without the consent of
his client, be examined as a witness as to any communication made by
the client to him, or his advice given thereon, in the course of profes
sional employment.
Third. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the consent of the
person making the confession, be examined as a witness as to any con
fession made to him in his professional character in the course of dis
cipline enjoined by the church to which he belongs.
Fourth. A licensed physician or surgeon cannot, without the consent
of his patient, be examined in a civil action, as to any information ac
quired in attending the patient, which was necessary to enable him to
prescribe or act for the patient.
Sec. 630. A public officer shall not be examined as a witness as to
communications made to him in official confidence, when the public
interest would suffer by the disclosure.
Sec. 631. The judge, himself, or any juror, may be called as a
witness by either party ; but in such case it shall be in the discretion of
the court or judge to order the trial to be postponed or suspended, and
to take place before another judge or jury.
Sec. 632. When a witness does not understand and speak the
English language, an interpreter shall be sworn to interpret for him.
Any person, a resident of the proper county, may be summoned by any
court or judge to appear before such court or judge, to act as interpreter
in any action or proceeding. The summons shall be served and re
turned in like manner as a subpoena. Any person so summoned shall,
for a failure to attend at the time and place named in the summons, be
deemed guilty of a contempt, and may be punished accordingly. A
person summoned as an interpreter shall receive such compensation
as the court in its discretion may order, in addition to the fees allowed
by law.
Sec. 633. A subpoena may require not only the attendance of the
person to whom it is directed at a particular time and place, to testify
as a witness, but may also require him to bring any books, documents,
or other things under his control, to be used as evidence. No person
shall be required to attend as a witness before any court, judge, or
justice, or any other officer out of the county in which he resides, un
less the distance be less than thirty miles from his place of residence
to the place of trial.
Sec. 634. The subpoena shall be issued as follows :
First. To require attendance before the court, or at the trial of an
issue therein, it shall be issued and under the seal of the court before
which the attendance is required, or in which the issue is pending.
Second. To require attendance out of the court before a judge or
justice, or other officer authorized to administer oaths or take testimony
in any matter under the laws of this Territory, it shall be issued by the
judge, justice, or any other officer before whom the attendance is re
quired.
Third. To require attendance before a commissioner appointed to
take testimony by a court of a foreign country or of the United States,
or of any other State in the United States of America, or any other
district or county within the Territory, or before any officer or officers
empowered by the laws of the United States to take testimony, it may
be issued by any judge or justice of the peace in places within their
respective jurisdiction, with like power to enforce attendance, and upon
certificate of contumacy to said court to punish contempt of their pro
cess, as such judge or justice could exercise if the subpoena directed the
attendance of the witness before their courts in a matter pending therein.
Sec. 635. The service of a subpoena shall be made by showing the
original, and delivering a copy or a ticket containing its substance to
the witness personally, giving or offering to him at the same time, if
demanded by him, the fees to which he is entitled for travel to and
from the place designated, and one day's attendance there. Such
service may be made by any person.
Sec. 636. If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel so as to
prevent the service of a subpoena upon him, any court or judge, or any
officer issuing the subpoena, may, upon proof by affidavit, of the con
cealment and of the materiality of the witness, make an order that the
sheriff of the county serve the subpoena, and the sheriff shall serve it
accordingly ; and for that purpose may break into the building or vessel
where the witness is concealed.
Sec. 637. A person present in court or before a judicial officer may
be required to testify in the same manner as if he were in attendance
upon a subpoena issued by such court or officer.
Sec. 638. It shall be the duty of a witness duly served with a
subpoena to attend at the time appointed with any papers under his
control required by the subpoena, to answer all pertinent and legal
questions, and, unless sooner discharged, to remain until the testimony
is closed.
Sec. 639. A witness shall answer questions, legal and pertinent to
the matter in issue, though his answer may establish a claim against
himself ; but he need not give an answer which will have a tendency to
subject him to punishment for felony ; nor need he give an answer that
will have a direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it be the
very fact in issue, or to a fact from which the fact in issue would be
presumed. But a witness shall answer as to the fact of his previous
conviction for felony.
Sec. 640. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn, or
to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit, or deposition, when
required, may be punished as a contempt by the court or officer issuing
the subpoena, or requiring the witness to be sworn ; and, if the witness
be a party, his complaint may be dismissed or his answer stricken out.
Sec. 641. A witness disobeying a subpoena shall also forfeit to the
party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars, and all damages which
he may sustain by the failure of the witness to attend ; which forfeit
ure and damages may be recovered in a civil action.
Sec. 642. In case of failure of a witness to attend, the court or
officer issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the service thereof, and of
the failure of the witness, may issue a warrant to the sheriff of the
county to arrest the witness, and bring him before the court or officer
where his attendance was required.
Sec. 643. Every warrant of commitment issued by a court or officer
pursuant to this chapter, must specify therein particularly the cause of
the commitment, and, if it be for refusing to answer a question, such
question must be stated in the warrant. And every warrant to arrest,
or commit, a witness pursuant to this chapter, must be directed to the
sheriff of the county where the witness may be, and must be executed
by him in the same manner as process issued by the district court.
Sec. 644. If the witness be a prisoner confined in a jail or prison
within this Territory for any other cause than a sentence for felony, an
order for his examination in the prison, upon deposition, or for his
temporary removal and production before a court, or officer, for the
purpose of being orally examined, may be made as follows :
First. By the court itself, in which the action or special proceeding
is pending.
Second. By a judge of the supreme court, district court, or probate
judge of the county where the action or proceeding is pending, if before
a judge or other person out of court.
Sec. 645. Such order can only be made on affidavit showing the
nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected from the
witness, and its materiality.
Sec. 646. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where the
action or proceeding is pending, for a cause other than felony, his pro
duction may be required. In all other cases, his examination, when
allowed, shall be taken upon deposition.
Sec. 647. No action to obtain a discovery under oath, in aid of the
prosecution or defence of another action or proceeding shall be allowed,
nor shall any examination of a party be had on behalf of the adverse
party, except in the manner provided by this and the foregoing chapter.
Sec. 648. A party to an action or proceeding may be examined as
a witness at the instance of the adverse party, or of any one of sev
eral adverse parties; and for that purpose may be compelled in the
same manner, and subject to the same rules of examinatien, as any
other witness, to testify at the trial, and he may be examined on a
commission.
Sec. 649. The examination of a party thus taken may be rebutted
by adverse testimony.
Sec. 650. If an adverse party refuse to attend or testify at the trial,
or give his deposition before trial, or upon a commission when required,
his complaint or answer may be stricken out, and judgment be taken
against him ; and he may be also, in the discretion of the court, pro
ceeded against as in other cases for contempt.
CHAPTER V.
ON AFFIDAVIT.
Sec. 651. Before whom taken in this Territory. ■
Sec. 652. Before whom taken out of the Territory.
Sec. 658. Before whom taken in foreign country.
Sec. 654. When taken in another State or foreign country, how tested.
Sec. 655. Where filed; to be prima facie evidence.
Sec. 651. An affidavit, to be used before any court, judge, or officer
of this Territory, may be taken before any judge or clerk of any court,
or any justice of the peace or notary public in this Territory.
Sec. 652. An affidavit taken in another Territory, or any State of
the United States, to be used in this Territory, shall be taken before a
commissioner appointed by the governor of this Territory to take
affidavits and depositions in such other Territory or State, or before
any notary public or judge of a court of record having a seal.
Sec. 658. An affidavit taken in a foreign country, to be used in this
Territory, shall be taken before an ambassador, minister, or consul of
the United States, or before any judge of a court of record, having a
seal, in such foreign country. -
Sec. 654. When an affidavit is taken before a judge of a court in
another State, or in a foreign country, the genuineness of the signa
ture of the judge, the existence of the court, and the fact that such
judge is a member thereof, shall be certified by the clerk of the court
under the seal thereof.
Sec. 655. If such affidavit be made in an action or special proceeding
pending in a court, it may be filed with the court or the clerk thereof.
If not so made, it may be filed with the clerk of the county where the
newspaper is printed. In either case the original affidavit, or a copy
thereof, certified by the judge of the court or clerk having it in custody,
is prima facie evidence of the fact stated therein.
CHAPTER VI.
OF DEPOSITIONS TAKEN IN THIS TERRITORY.
Sec. 656. In what cases depositions may be taken.
Sec. 657. Notice to take depositions.
Sec. 658. Manner of taking and returning depositions.
Sec. 659. May be read in any stage of proceedings by either party.
Sec. 656. The testimony of a witness in this Territory may be
taken by deposition in an action at any time after the service of the
summons, or the appearance of the defendant ; and in a special pro
ceeding after a question of fact has arisen therein, in the following
cases :
First. When the witness is a party to the action or proceeding, or a
person for whose immediate benefit the action or proceeding is prose
cuted or defended.
Second. When the witness resides out of the county in which his
testimony is to be used.
Third. When the witness is about to leave the county where the
action is to be tried, and will probably continue absent when the testi
mony is required.
Fourth. When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial, is
nevertheless too infirm to attend.
Sec. 657. Either party may have the deposition taken of a witness
in this Territory, before any judge or clerk, or any justice of the peace,
or notary public, in this Territory, on serving on the adverse party
previous notice of the time and place of examination, together with a
copy of an affidavit showing that the case is one mentioned in the last section. At any time during the forty days immediately after the
service of summons by publication has been completed, and at any
time thereafter, when the defendant has not appeared, the notice
required by this section may be served on the clerk of the court where
the action is pending ; such notice shall be at least five days, and in
addition one day for every twenty-five miles of the distance of the
place of examination from the residence of the person to whom the
notice is given, unless, for a cause shown, a judge by order prescribe a
shorter time. When a shorter time is prescribed, a copy of the order
shall be served with the notice.
Sec. 658. Either party may attend such examination, and put sucbj
questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition, when
completed, shall be carefully read to the witness, and corrected by him
in any particular if desired ; it shall then be subscribed by the witness,
certified by the judge or officer taking the deposition, enclosed in an
envelope or wrapper, sealed and directed to the clerk of the court
in which the action is pending, or to such person as the parties in
writing may agree upon, and either delivered by the judge or officer
to the clerk, or such person, or transmitted through the mail, or by
some safe private opportunity; and thereupon such deposition may
be used by either party upon the trial or other proceeding against
any party giving or receiving the notice, subject to all legal excep
tions. But if the parties attend at the examination no objection to
the form of an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the
same was stated at the time of the examination. If the deposition
be taken by reason of the absence or intended absence from the
county of the witness, or because he is too infirm to attend, proof,
by affidavit, or oral testimony, shall be made at the trial that the
witness continues absent or infirm, to the best of the deponent's
knowledge or belief. The deposition thus taken may also be read in
case of the death of the witness.
Sec. 659. When a deposition has once been taking it may be read
in any stage of the same action or proceeding by either party, and
shall then be deemed evidence of the party reading it.
CHAPTER VII.
OF DEPOSITIONS TAKEN OUT OF THIS TERRITORY.
Sec. 660. When deposition may be taken.
Sec. 661. How deposition of non-resident witness taken.
Sec. 662. May be read in evidence.
Sec. 663. May be read by either party.
Sec. 660. The testimony of a witness out of the Territory may be
taken by deposition in an action, at any time after the service of
the summons, or the appearance of the defendant ; and in a special
proceeding at any time after a question of fact has arisen therein.
Sec. 661. When the testimony of any non-resident witness or wit
nesses shall be necessary in any civil cause, depending in any court of
law or equity in this Territory, it shall be lawful for the party wishing
to use the same, on giving to the adverse party, or his attorney, five
days previous notice, together with a copy of the interrogatories
intended to be put to such witness or witnesses, to sue out from the
proper clerk's office a commission, under the seal of the court, to be
directed to any person as commissioner, or to any judge or justice of
the peace, clerk of a court of record, or notary public of the county or
city in which such witness or witnesses may reside, authorizing and
requiring him to cause such witness or witnesses to come before him,
at such place and time as he may designate and appoint, and faith
fully to take his, her, or their deposition, or depositions upon all
such interrogations as may be enclosed with, or attached to, such
communication, both on the part of the plaintiff and the defendant,
and none others ; and to certify the same when taken together with
the said commission and interrogations, into the court in which
such cause may be depending, with the least possible delay. If
issued to any country out of the United States, it may be directed to a
minister, ambassador, consul, vice-consul, or consular agent of the
United States, in such country ; or to any person agreed upon by the
parties.
Sec. 662. Every examination and deposition which shall be taken
and returned according to the provisions of this act, may be read in
evidence in the cause in which it shall be taken, with the like effect
as if such witness had been present, and examined by parol in open
court, on the trial or hearing thereof.
Sec. 668. All depositions taken in pursuance hereof, when returned
into court may be read by either party, on the trial of the cases to
which they relate.
CHAPTER VIII.
PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.
Sec. 664. Testimony may be perpetuated.
Sec. 665. What petition of applicant, verified by oath, must state.
Sec. 666. Authority of person appointed to take the testimony.
Sec. 667. How taken and returned.
Sec. 668. Petition, order and papers filed prima facie evidence.
Sec. 669. When may be used on trial.
Sec. 670. Effect of deposition.
Sec. 664. The testimony of a witness may be taken and per
petuated, as provided in this chapter.
Sec. 565. The applicant must produce to a district or a probate
judge, a petition, verified by the oath of the applicant, stating :
First. That the applicant expects to be a party to an action in a
court in this Territory, and in such case the names' of the persons
whom he expects will be adverse parties ; or,
Second. That the proof of some fact is necessary to perfect the title to property in which he is interested, or to establish marriage,
descent, heirship, or any other matter which it may hereafter
become material to establish, though no suit may at the time be anti
cipated, or, if anticipated, he may not know the parties to such suit ;
and,
Third. The name of the witness to be examined, his place of resi
dence, and a general outline of the facts expected to be proved.
The judge to whom such petition is presented must make an order
allowing the examination, and designating the officer before whom the
same must be taken, and prescribing the notice to be given, which
notice, if the parties expectant are known, and reside in this Territory,
must be personally served ; and, if unknown, such notice must be
served on the clerk of the county where the property to be affected by
the evidence is situated, or the judge making the order resides, as may
be directed by him, and by publication thereof in some newspaper, to
be designated bythe judge, for the same period required for the publi
cation of summons. The judge must also designate in his order the
clerk of the county to whom the depositions must be returned when
taken.
Sec. 666. The person appointed by the judge to take the deposi
tions is authorized, if a resident of this Territory, on receiving a copy of
the order of the judge, and of the notice prescribed in the last section,
with proof of its personal service or publication, or if a resident with
out the Territory, on receiving the commission mentioned in the next section, with proof of like service of publication of the notice, to take
the deposition of the witness named m the order of the judge or in the
commission ; or, if more than one witness is thus named, of such of
them as appear before him at the time designated ; and the taking of
the same may be continued from time to time.
Sec. 667. The examination must be by question and answer, and if
the testimony is to be taken outside of this Territory, it must be taken
upon a commission to be issued by the judge allowing the examination,
under the seal of the court of which he is a judge, and upon interroga
tories to be settled by the judge granting such commission, unless the
parties expectant, if known, otherwise agree. If such parties are
unknown, notice of the settlement of the interrogatories shall be pub
lished in some newspaper, for such time as the ]ddge may designate.
The deposition, when completed, must be carefully read to and sub
scribed by the witness, then certified by the officer or person taking
the same, and shall then be sealed up and delivered or transmitted to
the clerk of the county designated in the order of the judge allowing
the examination who shall file the same when received. The judge
allowing the examination shall file with the clerk the order for the
examination, the petition on which the same was granted, with proof
of service of the order and notice.
Sec. 668. The petition and order and papers filed by the judge, as
provided in section 665, or a certified copy thereof, are prima facie
evidence of the facts stated therein to show compliance with the pro
visions of this chapter.
Sec. 669. If a trial be had between the parties named in the peti
tion as parties expectant, or their successors in interest, or between
any parties wherein it may be material to establish the facts which
depositions prove, or tend to prove, upon proof of the death or insanity
of the witnesses, or that they can not be found, or are unable, by
reason of age or other infirmity, to give their testimony, the deposi
tions or copies thereof may be used by either party, subject to all legal
objections ; but if the parties attended at the examination, no objection
to the form of an interrogatory can be made at the trial unless the
same was stated at the examination.
Sec. 670. The deposition so taken and read in evidence has the
same effect as the oral testimony of the witness, and no other, and
every objection to the witness, or to the relevancy of any question put
to him, or of any answer given by him, may be made in the same man
ner as if he were examined orally at the trial.
Sec. 671. Every court of this Territory, every judge or clerk or
deputy clerk of any court, every justice of the peace, and every notary
public, county clerk, and every officer authorized to take testimony, or
to decide upon evidence in any proceeding, shall have power to admin
ister oaths or affirmations.
Sec. 672. When a person is sworn who believes in any other than
the Christian religion, he may be sworn according to the peculiar cere
monies of his religion, if there be any such.
Sec. 678. A witness who desires it may, at his option, instead of
taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation or declaration by assent
ing, when addressed in the following form :
"You do solemnly affirm that the evidence you shall give in this
issue (or matter) pending between and shall be the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth." Assent to this affirma
tion shall be made by answer, "I do." A false affirmation or declara
tion shall be deemed perjury equally with a false oath.
Sec. 674. That Chapters XLI and LXXX of an act entitled "An
act revising, re-enacting, and codifying the general and permanent
laws of Montana Territory," approved January 12th, 1872, relating to
limitations, and the first six hundred and fifteen sections of an act
entitled "An act to regulate proceedings in civil cases in courts of
justice of the Territory of Montana," approved January 12th, 1872, be,
and the same is hereby, repealed : Provided, That this act shall not
be so construed as to affect any suit or proceeding that may be pending
in any court of this Territory at the time this act shall take effect.
Sec. 675. This act shall take effect and be in force on and after the
first day of August, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven ;
except Chapter II of Title XV, and III of Title VIII, and Section
84 of Chapter II of Title VI, and Section 241 of Chapter III of Title
VIII, which shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage.
Sec. 676. The following shall be the courts of justice of this Terri
tory:
First. The supreme court.
Second. The district courts.
Third. The probate courts.
Fourth. The justices' courts.
SUPREME COURT.
Sec. 677. The supreme court shall have appellate jurisdiction in
all civil cases where the amount in dispute exceeds one hundred dollars,
and in all criminal cases tried in the district courts, and shall hold its
sessions at the capital at the times fixed by law.
DISTRICT COURT.
Sec. 678. The Territory shall be divided into three judicial districts.
Sec. 679. There shall be a district judge for each of the judicial
districts. The courts held by them shall be district courts of the Ter
ritory. The jurisdiction of these courts shall be of two kinds :
First. Original.
Second. Appellate.
Sec. 680. The district court shall have original jurisdiction in civil
cases where the amount in dispute, or value of the property sued for,
exceeds fifty dollars, and in all criminal cases not otherwise provided
for : Provided, The district court may enter judgment for a less sum
than fifty dollars upon the plaintiff paying costs, and may in like man
ner enter judgment for the recovery of personal property of less than
fifty dollars value.
Sec. 681. The appellate jurisdiction of these courts shall extend to
hearing upon appeal an order or judgment of a probate court or justice
of the peace in the cases provided by law.
Sec. 682. The courts and judges thereof shall have power to issue
all writs necessary and proper to the complete exercise of the power
conferred on them by the constitution, organic act, and laws of this
Territory.
Sec. 688. The terms shall be held at such times and places as pro
vided by law. If a room for holding the court be not provided by the
county, together with attendants, fuel, lights, and stationery, suitable
and sufficient for the transaction of business, the court may direct the
sheriff to provide such room, attendants, fuel, lights, and stationery,
and the expense shall be a county charge.
Sec. 684. The district judges shall, at all reasonable times, when
not engaged in holding courts, transact such business at their cham
bers as may be done out of court. At chambers they may hear and
dispose of all applications for orders and writs which are usually
granted in the first instance upon an ex parte application, and may, in
their discretion, also hear applications to discharge such orders and
writs.
Sec. 685. When an action or proceeding is commenced in a district
court in which a probate court has concurrent jurisdiction, the district
court may, if the parties agree, by order, transfer the same to the
probate court of the same county. Upon such transfer, the probate court
shall have and exercise, over such action or proceeding, the same juris
diction as if originally commenced therein.
PROBATE COURT.
Sec. 686. There shall be in each county a probate court with the
jurisdiction conferred by this chapter.
Sec. 687. The probate court shall have power to open and receive
the proof of last wills and testaments, and to admit them to probate,
to grant letters testamentary of administration, and of guardianship,
and to revoke the same for cause shown, according to law, to compel
executors and administrators and guardians to render an account when
required, or at the period by law to order the sale of property of estates,
or belonging to minors, to order the payment of debts due by estates,
to order and regulate the partitions of property or estates of deceased
persons, to compel the attendance of witnesses, to appoint appraisers
. or arbitrators, to compel the production of title deeds, papers, or other
property of an estate or of a minor, and to make such other orders as
may be necessary and proper, in the exercise of the jurisdiction con
ferred on the probate court.
Sec. 688. The probate courts shall have jurisdiction within their
respective counties, in all civil actions to recover money or damages,
wherein the damages or debt claimed does not exceed five hundred
dollars : Provided, That they shall not have jurisdiction in any matter
in controversy, when the title or right to the peaceable possession of
land may be in dispute, or in chancery, or in divorce cases.
Sec. 689. That there shall be regular terms of the probate court
held in the several counties of the Territory, on the first Mondays of
January, March, July, September, and November of each year, for the
transaction of probate business.
The probate courts shall be always open for the transaction of all
other business within their jurisdiction.
Note.—Act February 13th. 1874.
Sec. 690. The provisions of this code, so far as applicable, shall
govern the proceedings and practice in the probate courts of the Ter
ritory in civil actions ; but no judgment rendered in the probate court
shall be a lien upon any real estate, nor shall any real estate be sold
on execution issued out of the probate court. Any person recovering
a judgment in the probate court may file a certified transcript of such
judgment with the clerk of the district court of the county wherein
such judgment is recovered ; and said clerk shall docket such judgment
in the same manner as judgments rendered in said district court. And
said judgment, from the time of such docketing, shall be a lien upon
the real estate of the defendant, as provided by law ; and execution
may be issued thereon by the clerk of the said district court, and real
estate sold in the same manner as on other executions issued on judg
ments in said district court: Provided, That writs of attachments
issued out of the probate court may be levied on real estate in the
same manner as writs issued out of the district court ; but no such
real estate levied on by attachment shall be sold on execution until
the judgment is docketed in the district court above provided.
Note.—Act February 2d, 1876.
Sec. 691. If the judge be disqualified, for any cause, from sitting
on the determination of any cause or proceeding pending before him,
the cause shall be certified, with the original papers, to the district
court of the district including the county, which shall proceed thereon
to final judgment and determination.
Sec. 692. That each judge of the probate courts shall be a con
servator of the peace throughout his county.
Sec. 698. In all civil cases within their jurisdiction the probate
courts and the judges thereof shall have the same power to grant all
orders and writs and process which the district courts, or the judges
thereof, have power to grant within their jurisdiction, and to hear and
determine all questions arising within their jurisdiction as fully and
completely as the district courts or the judges thereof have power to
do under the laws of this Territory.
Sec. 694. Juries in all civil actions in the probate court shall con
sist of not more than twelve nor less than six persons having the
qualifications of .electors, who shall not be summoned until the cause
is at issue and set for trial, and a demand is made by one or more of
the parties, and their fees for one day paid into the hands of the clerk
by the party making the demand.
Sec. 695. The clerk shall issue a venire, returnable on the day upon
which the cause is set for trial, and if, on the return day, the panel be
not full, it may be filled by summoning others.
Sec. 696. No person or persons shall hereafter make any entry
into lands, tenements or other possessions, or by entering upon any
gulch mining claim, or quartz lode mining claim, or other mining
claim, in the temporary absence of the party or parties in possession,
or by entering peaceably, and the turning out by force, or frightening
by threats, or other circumstances of terror, the party or parties out
of possession, and detain and hold the same. In every such case, the
person so offending shall be deemed guilty of a forcible entry and
detainer within the meaning of this act ; but not in cases where entry
is given by law, and in such cases not with strong hand nor with mul
titude of people, but only in a peaceable manner ; and if any person
from henceforth do the contrary, and thereof be duly convicted, he
shall be punished by fine.
Sec. 697. Any justice of the peace shall have authority to inquire
as hereinafter directed, as well as against those who make unlawful
or forcible entry into lands, tenements or other possessions, and detain
the same as against those who, having lawful and peaceable entry
into lands, tenements, or other possessions, unlawfully detain the
same, and if it be found, upon such inquiry, that an unlawful or forci
ble entry hath been made, or that the said rands, tenements, or other
possessions, after a lawful entry, are held unlawfully, then such justice
shall cause the party complaining to have restitution thereof.
Sec. 698. When any complaint shall be made in writing to any
justice of the peace, of any such unlawful or forcible entry, or unlaw
ful detainer, said justice shall issue a summons, directed to the sheriff
or any constable of the county, commanding him to summon the
person or persons against whom such complaint shall have been made,
to appear before said justice on a day named in the summons, which
shall not be more than ten days from the issuing of such summons, and
at the place therein mentioned.
Sec. (199. Such summons shall be served upon the person or per
sons against whom the same is issued, as other summons are served,
issued by a justice, at least four days before the return day thereof,
and the officer serving the same shall make return of the time and
manner of such service.
Sec. 700. After the return of the summons served as hereinbefore
provided, and at the time and place appointed in said summons, the
justice shall proceed to hear and determine ' said complaint, unless
either party demand a jury, in which case a jury shall be summoned
in the same manner and on the same terms, and the trial shall be had
as in other cases of trial by jury before a justice.
Sec. 701. If, at the time set for trial, the defendant, his agent, or
attorney, shall make oath that he cannot safely proceed to trial for
want of some material witness, naming him, that he has made due
exertion to obtain such witness or his testimony, and believes if an
adjournment be allowed he will be able to procure the testimony of
such witness, in which case, if such person or persons will give bond,
with sufficient surety, conditioned to pay the said complainant for all
rent that may accrue during the pending of such suit, and all costs
and damages consequent upon such adjournment, the said justice shall
adjourn said cause for such reasonable time as may appear necessary,
not exceeding one month.
Sec. 702. The testimony of any witness which may be considered
necessary by either party, may be taken in the same manner and with
like effect as is provided for the taking of testimony in other cases in
justices' courts.
Sec. 708. On the trial the complainant shall only be required to
show, in addition to the forcible entry or detainer complained of, that
he was peaceably in actual possession at the time of the forcible entry,
or was entitled to the possession of the premises at the time of the
unlawful holding over. The defendant may show in his defence that
he or his ancestors, or those whose interest in such premises he
claims, have been in quiet possession thereof for the space of one
whole year together next before the said inquisition, and that his inter
est therein is not yet ended or determined ; and such showing shall be
a bar to the prosecution ; and in no case where the title to land is
involved shall a justice of the peace have cognizance.
Sec. 704. If, upon the trial, upon any complaint under this act,
the justice or jury shall find the defendant or defendants, or either of
them, guilty of the allegations of the complaint, said justice shall
enter judgment for the complainant to have restoration of the prem
ises, and shall impose such fine, not exceeding one hundred dollars,
considering all the circumstances, as he may deem just, and shall tax
the costs for the complainant, and may issue execution therefor ; and
the said justice shall award and issue a writ of restitution. But if the
said justice or jury find that the person complained of is not guilty,
the justice shall tax the costs against the complainant, and issue exe
cution therefor.
Sec. 705. If the jury impaneled can not agree upon a verdict, the
justice may, with the consent of the parties, discharge them, and issue
a venire, returnable forthwith, or at some other time agreed upon by
the parties.
Sec. 706. In all cases of a verdict by the justice or jury for the
complainant, the damages shall be assessed as well for the waste and
injury committed upon the premises as for the rents and profits during
such detainer ; and the verdict shall also find the monthly rents and
profits of the said premises, and the complainant shall be entitled to
recover treble damages against the person against whom the judgment
has been rendered, which damages shall be assessed by the justice or
jury, and when so assessed shall be trebled by said justice and entered
as a judgement in the cause upon which execution may issue.
Sec. 707. When any person shall hold over any lands, tenements,
or other possessions, after the termination of the time for which they
are demised or let to them, or to the person under whom they hold
possession, or contrary to the covenants or conditions of the lease or
agreement under which they hold, or after any rent shall become due
according to the terms of the lease or agreement, and shall remain
unpaid for the space of three days, in all such cases if the lessor, his
heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, agent, or attorney, shall make
demand in writing of such tenant that they shall deliver possession
of the premises held as aforesaid, and if such tenant shall refuse or
neglect for the space of three days after such demand to quit the
possession of such lands or tenements, or to pay the rent thereof due
and unpaid, as aforesaid, upon complaint thereof to any justice of the
peace of the proper county, the justice shall proceed to hear, try and
determine the same in the same manner as in other cases hereinbefore
provided for, but shall impose no fine in any such case mentioned in
this section.
Sec. 708. The preceding section shall not extend to any person who
has or who shall have continued in possession one year after the termin
ation of the time for which the premises were demised or leased or
let to them or those under whom they hold possession, or to any person
who continues in possession three years quietly and peaceably.
Sec. 709. Every person summoned as a juror, or subpoenaed as a
witness, who shall not appear, or who appearing shall refuse to serve
or give evidence in any prosecution instituted under this act, shall
forfeit and pay for every such default or refusal to the use of the
county, unless some reasonable cause be assigned, such fine, not
exceeding twenty dollars, as the said justice shall think proper to
impose, and execution may be issued therefor.
Sec. 710. Appeals may be taken from all judgments rendered under
this act to the district court, under the same rules and restrictions as
to notice, appeal bond, and other matters, as are required on appeals
from justices' courts in other cases ; but in case such appeal be taken
by the defendant, the undertaking shall contain an additional condi
tion, to the effect that he will pay to the plaintiff all rents, profits and
other damages that may accrue during the pendency of the appeal. If
the appeal should be decided against him beyond the filing of the
appeal bond, all proceedings shall be stayed.
Sec. 711. Such appeals shall be tried in the district court as other
appeals from justices' courts are tried.
Sec. 712. Amendments to the complaint, answer, or other pro
ceedings, in matters of form only, may be allowed by the justice, or the
district court, on appeal at any time before judgment, upon such terms
as may be just, and all matters of excuse, justification, or evidences
of allegations in the complaint, may be given in evidence under the
answer.
Sec. 718. All rules and regulations relating to trial before justices
of the peace in other cases, and not inconsistent with the provisions of
this title, shall be applicable, and be observed in trials arising under
this title.
Sec. 714. The courts held by justices of the peace in this Territory
shall be denominated justices' courts, and shall have the jurisdiction
conferred by this act ; but nothing contained in this act shall affect
their jurisdiction in actions or proceedings now pending therein, nor
shall it affect any jndgment or order already made, or proceedings
already taken.
Sec. 715. Justices' courts shall have jurisdiction of the following
cases :
First. In £U civil actions where the amount claimed does not exceed
the sum of one hundred dollars.
Second. Of actions to recover the possession of personal property
when the value of such property does not exceed one hundred dollars.
Third. Of an action for a forcible or an unlawful entry upon, or a
forcible or unlawful detainer of lands, tenements, or other possessions.
The jurisdiction conferred by this section shall not extend, however, to
a civil action in which the title to real property shall come in question.
Sec. 716. The jurisdiction of all justices of the peace shall be
co-extensive with the limits of the county in which they are elected,
and no other or greater unless expressly provided by statute.
Sec. 717. Parties in justices' courts may prosecute or defend in
person or by attorney ; and any person on the request of a party may
act as attorney, except that the constable by whom the summons or
jury process was served shall not appear or act on the trial on behalf
of either party.
Sec. 718. Judgment upon confession may be entered up in justices'
court in this Territory specified in the confession.
Sec. 719. Justices' courts shall have jurisdiction of an action upon
the voluntary appearance of the parties without summons, without
regard to the residences or the place where the cause of action arose,
or the subject matter of the action may exist.
Sec. 720. Action in justices' courts shall be commenced by filing &
copy of the account, note, bill, bond, or instrument upon which the
action is brought, with a statement of the amount due therein, or a
concise statement in writing of the cause of action, and the issuance of
a summons thereon, or by the voluntary appearance and pleading of
the parties without summons ; in the latter case the action shall be
deemed commenced at the time of appearance.
Sec. 721. When a guardian is necessary, he shall be appointed by
the justice, as follows :
First. If the infant be plaintiff, the appointment shall be made be
fore the summons is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be
of the age of fourteen years or upwards ; if under that age, upon the appli
cation of some relative or friend. The consent in writing of the guar
dian to be appointed and to be responsible for costs if he fail in the
action, shall be first filed with the justice.
Second. If the infant be defendant, the guardian shall be appointed
at the time the summons is returned or before pleading. It shall be
the right of the infant to nominate his own guardian, if the infant be
over fourteen years of age and the proposed guardian be present and
consent in writing to be appointed, otherwise the justice may appoint
any suitable person who gives such consent.
Sec. 722. The summons shall be addressed to the defendant by
name, or, if his name be unknown, by a fictitious name, and shall sum
mon him to appear before the justice at his office, naming its township
or city, and at the time specified therein, to answer the complaint of
the plaintiff for a cause of action therein described, in general terms
sufficient to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against
him, and in an action for money or damages shall state the amount the
plaintiff will take judgment for if the defendant fails to answer, and
shall be subscribed by the justice and dated on the day of its issue.
Sec. 723. The time mentioned in the summons for the appearance
of the defendant, and the time of service, shall be as follows :
First. When the summons is accompanied with an order for the
arrest of the defendant it shall be returnable immediately.
Second. In all other cases it shall be returnable in not less than four
or more than ten days from its date, and shall be served at least four
days before the time for appearance.
Sec. 724. The summons shall be served by the sheriff, or a constable
of the county, or by some one specially appointed by the justice, as fol
lows :
First. If the action be against a corporation, by reading the same to
the president or other head of the corporation, or to the secretary,
cashier, or managing agent thereof, or when no such officer resides
in the county, to a director resident therein, or by leaving a copy of the
summons at the principal office or place of business of such corpora
tion in the county.
Second. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, by
reading the same to his father, mother, or guardian, or if there be none
within the county, then to any person having the care or control of
such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is, or by
leaving a copy thereof at the dwelling house or place of abode of such
person.
Third. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound
mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a
guardian has been appointed, by reading the same to such guardian,
or by leaving a copy thereof at his place of residence.
Fowrth. In all other cases, by reading the same to the defendant
personally, or by leaving a copy at his place of residence.
Sec. 725. When the person on whom the service is to be made
resides out of the Territory, or can not, after due diligence, be found
within the Territory, or conceals himself to avoid the service of
summons, and the fact shall appear by affidavit to the satisfaction of
the justice, and it shall in like manner appear that a cause of action
exists against the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be
made, the justice shall grant an order that service be made by publi
cation of the summons. The order shall direct the publication to be
made in a newspaper printed in the county in which the action is
brought, if there is one, and, if not, in the newspaper printed nearest
thereto, at least once a week : Provided, That a publication against a
defendant residing out of the Territory, or absent therefrom, shall not
be less than four weeks. The service of summons shall be deemed
complete at the expiration of the time prescribed by the order of pub
lication, and the defendant shall have ten days after the completion of
the service to answer.
Sec. 726. An order for the arrest of the defendant may be endorsed
on a summons issued by the justice, and the defendant may be
arrested thereon by the sheriff or constable at the time of serving the
summons, and brought before the justice, and there detained until
duly discharged, in the following cases :
First. In an action for the recovery of money or damages, and a
cause of action arising on contract, express or implied, where the defend
ant is about to depart from the Territory with the intent to defraud
his creditors.
Second. In an action for the embezzlement of property or fraudu
lently misapplied or converted to his own use, by an attorney, factor,
broker, agent, or clerk, in the course of his employment as such, or by
any other person in a fiduciary capacity.
Third. When the defendant has been guilty of fraud in contracting
the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought.
Fourth. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or disposed
of the property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his credi
tors'. But no female shall be arrested in any action.
Sec. 727. Before any order for arrest shall be made, the party
applying shall prove to the satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit
of himself or some other person, the facts on which the application is
founded. The plaintiff shall also execute and deliver to the justice a
written undertaking, with two or more sureties, to the effect that if the
defendant recover judgment, or if the order of arrest be dismissed, the
plaintiff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and
all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceed
ing the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least two
hundred dollars.
Sec. 728. The defendant, immediately on being arrested, shall be
taken to the office of the justice who made the order, and if he be
absent or unable to try the action, .or if it be made to appear to him by
the affidavit of the defendant that he is a material witness for the
defendant, the officer shall immediately take the defendant before the
next nearest justice within the county, who shall take cognizance of the
action, and proceed thereon as if the summons had been issued, and
the order of arrest made by him.
Sec. 729. The officer making the arrest shall immediately give
notice thereof to the plaintiff, or his attorney, or agent, and endorse
on the summons and subscribe a certificate stating the time of serving
the same, the time of the arrest, and of his giving notice to the plaintiff.
Sec. 780. The officer making the arrest shall keep the defendant in
custody until duly discharged by the order of the justice : Provided,
That the officer shall not be bound to keep such person under arrest
more than twenty-four hours, unless the plaintiff advance each day the
expenses of keeping such person, which expense shall be taxed as
costs in the action, and in no case shall be a charge against the
county.
Sec. 781. The defendant under arrest, on his appearance with the
officer, may demand a trial immediately, and, upon such demand
being made, the trial shall not be delayed beyond three hours, except
by the trial of another action pending at the same time, or he may
have an adjournment, and be discharged on giving bail, as provided in
the next section. An adjournment at the request of the plaintiff
beyond three hours shall discharge the defendant from arrest, but the
action may proceed as in other cases.
Sec. 782. If the defendant, on his appearance, demand an adjourn
ment, the same shall be granted, on condition that he execute and file
with the justice an undertaking, with two or more sufficient sureties, to
be approved by the justice, to the effect that he will render himself
amenable to the process of the court during the pending of the action,
and such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein, if it be
found by the justice that the defendant was subject to arrest in such
action, or that the sureties will pay to the plaintiff the amount of any
judgment he may recover in the action. On filing such undertaking,
the defendant shall be discharged from custody.
Sec. 788. The defendant may file a. plea under oath, putting in
issue the facts stated in the affidavit for the order of arrest, and the
plaintiff shall be held to establish such facts, and if he fail to do so,
the order of arrest shall be dismissed, and the defendant may proceed
upon the undertaking of the plaintiff for his damages occasioned by
the arrest.
The provisions of sections numbered from 145 to 158, inclusive of
this act, in relation to the examination and discharge of a defendant
imprisoned on execution in a civil action, shall apply to justice's
courts, and justices of the peace shall have the same powers in their
courts as are by said sections granted to the judge.
Sec. 784. A writ to attach the property of the defendant shall be
issued by the justice, on receiving an affidavit by or on behalf of the
plaintiff, showing the same facts that are required to be shown by the
affidavit in cases of attachment in the district court.
Sec. 785. Before issuing the writ, the justice shall require a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with two or more sufficient
sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, or if the
attachment be dismissed, the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages that he may sustain by
reason of the attachment.
Sec. 786. The writ may be directed to the sheriff, or any constable
of the county, and shall require him to attach and safely keep all the
property of the defendant in the county not exempt from execution, or
so much thereof, as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand,
the amount of which shall be stated in conformity with the complaint,
unless the defendant give him security by the undertaking of the suffi
cient sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demand and costs,
in which case to take such undertaking.
Sec. 787. The provisions of this act, relating to attachments in the
district courts, shall be applicable to justices' courts, the word consta
ble being substituted for the word sheriff where the writ is directed to a
constable, and the word justice being substituted for the words judge
and clerk.
Sec. 788. The plaintiff in an action to recover possession of per
sonal property may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time before answer, claim the delivery of such property to him, as pro
vided herein.
Sec. 789. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made by
the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, showing :
First. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed
(particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession
thereof.
Second. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
Third. The alleged cause of the detention thereof according to his
best knowledge, information, and belief.
—12
Fourth. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
fine pursuant to a statute, or seized under an attachment or execution
against the property of the plaintiff, or if so seized that it is by statute
exempt from such seizure ; and 0
Fifth. The actual value of the property.
Sec. 740. The justice shall thereupon, by an endorsement in writ
ing upon the affidavit, order the sheriff or constable of the county to
take the same from the defendant and deliver it to the plaintiff upon
receiving the undertaking mentioned in the next section.
Sec. 741. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and order, with a written
undertaking executed by two or more sufficient sureties, approved by
the officer, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the
property, as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action,
for the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any
cause be recovered against the plaintiff, the officer shall forthwith take
the property described in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the
defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody, and shall notify
the defendant in writing, if he can be found in the county, of the taking
of such property, and by what authority.
Sec. 742. At any time within two days after the taking of such
property by the officer, the defendant may require the return thereof,
upon giving to the officer a written undertaking, with two or more sure
ties to be approved by the officer, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property as stated in the affidavit of the plain
tiff for the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged,
and for payment to him of such sum as may from any cause be
recovered against the defendant. If a return of the property be not
required, it shall be delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided in this act.
Sec. 743. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a
building or enclosure, the officer shall publicly demand its delivery,
and if it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be
broken open, and take the property into his possession.
Sec. 744. When the officer shall have taken the property, as pro
vided in this act, he shall keep it in a secure place and deliver it to the
party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and
his necessary expenses for keeping the same.
Sec. 745. If the property taken be claimed by any other person
than the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto, or right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of
such title or right, and serve the same upon the officer, the officer shall
not be bound to keep the property or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless
the plaintiff on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the officer
against such claim by an undertaking executed by two sufficient
sureties, accompanied by their affidavits that they are each worth
double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the
plaintiff over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of prop
erty exempt from execution, and are property holders of the county,
and no claims to such property by any other person than the defend
ant or his agent, shall be valid against the officer unless so made.
Sec. 746. The officer shall return the order and affidavit, with his
proceedings thereon, to the justice within five days after taking the
property mentioned therein.
Sec. 747. The qualification of sureties on the several undertakings
required by this chapter shall be as follows :
First. Each of them shall be a resident and property holder within
the county.
Second. Each shall be worth double the amount stated in the under
taking over and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution, which facts shall appear by the affidavits of
the sureties annexed to the undertaking or endorsed thereon.
CHAPTEE III.
PLEADINGS AND TRIAL.
Sec. 748. Pleadings in justices' court.
Sec. 749. Pleadings; when to be in writing.
Sec. 750. Oral pleadings; substance to be entered on docket.
Sec. 751. Complaint; what shall state.
Sec. 752. Answer; what to contain.
Sec. 753. Statement equivalent to denial; when.
Sec. 754. Set-off. Original account or statement to be exhibited.
Sec. 755. Defendant admits genuineness of signature; when.
Sec. 756. Either party may object when pleading not explicit.
Sec. 757. Variance between proof and allegations; how regarded.
Sec. 758. Pleadings; when may be amended.
Sec. 759. Questions of title to real property not to be raised.
Sec. 760. Actions transferred from one justice to another.
Sec. 761. When justice may adjourn trial.
Sec. 762. Trial adjourned by consent or an application of either party.
Sec. 763. Adjournment had^when.
Sec. 764. Adjournment, for how long time.
Sec. 765. Dismissal of action.
Sec. 766. Either party failing to appear, trial may proceed.
Sec. 767. Trial by jury; when demanded; when waived.
Sec. 768. What number shall compose jury.
Sec. 769. Jurors competent to serve in district court.
Sec. 770. Peremptory challenges; how many.
Sec. 748. The pleadings in justices' courts shall be :
First. The complaint by the plaintiff, stating the cause of action.
Second. The answer by the defendant, stating the grounds of the
defence.
Sec. 749. The pleadings shall be in writing and verified by the oath
of the party, his agent or attorney, when the action is for a forcible or
unlawful entry upon, or forcible or unlawful detention of lands, tene
ments, or other possessions. In all other cases the pleadings may be
oral or in writing.
Sec. 750. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of them shall
be entered by the justice in his docket ; when in writing, they shall be
filed in his office and a reference to them made in his docket. Plead
ings shall not be required to be in any particular form, but shall be
such as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is
intended.
Sec. 751. The complaint shall state in a plain and direct manner
the facts constituting the cause of the action.
Sec. 752. The answer may contain a denial of any of the material
facts stated in the complaint which the defendant believes to be untrue,
and also a statement, in a plain and direct manner, of any other facts
constituting a defence, counter-claim, or set-off, upon which an action
might be brought by the defendant against the plaintiff in a justice's
court.
Sec. 753. A statement in an answer that the defendant has not
sufficient knowledge or information to form a belief in respect to a
particular allegation in the previous pleadings of the adverse party
shall be equivalent to a denial.
Sec. 754. When the cause of action or defences, or a set-off to a
set-off, arises upon an account or instrument for the payment of money
only, it shall be sufficient for the party to deliver a copy of the account
or instrument to the court, and to state that there is due to him thereon
from the adverse party a specified sum which he claims to recover or
set-off ; the court may, at the time of the pleading, require that the
original account or instrument be exhibited to the inspection of the
adverse party, and a copy to be furnished ; or if it be not so exhibited,
and a copy furnished, may prohibit its being afterwards given in evi
dence, unless it appear that such instrument is not in the possession
of the party pleading it, or under his control.
Sec. 755. If the plaintiff annex to his complaint, or file with the
justice at the time of issuing the summons, a copy of the promissory
note, bill of exchange, or other written obligation for the payment of
money upon which the action is brought, the defendant shall be deemed
to admit the genuineness of the signatures of the maker, indorsers, or
assignors thereof, unless he specifically deny the same in his answer
under oath.
Sec. 756. Either party may object to the pleading of his adversary,
or to any part thereof, that it is not sufficiently explicit to enable him
to understand it, or that it contains no cause of action or defence,
although it be taken as true. If the court deem the objection well
founded, it shall order the pleading to be amended, and if the party
refuse to amend, the defective pleading shall be disregarded.
Sec. 757. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allega
tions in pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial unless the court
be satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice
thereby.
Sec. 758. The pleadings may be amended at any time before trial
to supply a deficiency or omission when by such amendments substan
tial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after the
issue, and it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court, by
oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse party in conse
quence of such amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The
court may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amend
ment the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by the
court, not exceeding twenty dollars, but such payment shall not be
required unless an adjournment is made necessary by the amendment ;
nor shall an amendment be allowed after a witness is sworn upon the
trial when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.
Sec. 759. The parties shall not be at liberty to give evidence by
which the question of title to real property shall be raised in the trial
before a justice ; and if it appear from the plaintiff's own showing on
the trial, or from the answer of the defendant, verified by his oath or
that of his agent or attorney, or if it appear at any time during the
trial that the determination of the action will necessarily involve the
decision of the question of title to real property, the justice shall sus
pend all further proceedings in the action and transmit the pleadings,
and a certified transcript of his own proceedings in the action, to the
clerk of the district court of his county, and from the time of filing
such pleadings and transcript with the clerk of the district court, shall
have over the action the same jurisdiction as if it were originally com
menced therein : Provided, That when the action is certified to the
district court, upon the answer of the defendant, he shall file an under
taking, to be approved by the justice, to the effect that he will pay all
costs that may be awarded against him on the trial in the district
court.
Sec. 760. If at any time before the trial it appear to the satisfac
tion of the justice before whom the action is brought, by affidavit of
either party, that such justice is a material witness for either party,
or if either party make affidavit that he has reason to believe and
does believe that he can not have a fair and impartial trial before such
justice, the action shall be transferred to some other justice of the
same county; and in case of a jury being demanded, and affidavit of
either party is made that he can not have a fair and impartial trial on
account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens of the precinct or
township against him, the action shall be transferred to some other
justice of the peace in the county. The justice to whom the action
may be transferred by the provisions of this section shall have and
exercise the same jurisdiction over the action as if it had been origin
ally commenced before him. The justice ordering the transfer of the
action to another justice, shall immediately transfer to the latter, on
the payment of the costs due from the party procuring the transfer,
all the papers in the action, together with a certified transcript of the
proceedings that have been had in the action.
Sec. 761. Upon the return day of the summons, if a jury be
demanded,, or if the justice be actually engaged in other official busi
ness, he may adjourn the trial without the consent of either party, as
follows :
First. When a party who is not a resident of the county is in
attendance, the adjournment not to exceed twenty-four hours ; when
the defendant in attendance is under arrest, the adjournment not to
exceed three hours.
Second. In other cases not to exceed five days.
Sec. 762. The trial may be adjourned by consent, or upon the
applicaton of either party without the consent of the other, for a
period not exceeding ten days (except as provided in the next section),
as follows :
First. The party asking the adjournment shall, if required by his
adversary, prove by his own oath or otherwise that he can not, for
want of material testimony which he expects to procure, safely proceed
to trial, and shall show in what respects the testimony expected is
material, and the diligence he has used to procure it.
Second. The party asking the adjournment shall also, if required by
the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of the
adverse party who is in attendance be then taken by deposition before
the justice, which shall accordingly be done, and the testimony so
taken may be read on the trial with the same effect and subject to the
same objections as if the witness were present ;" but such objections
shall be made at the time of taking the deposition.
Third. The court may also require the moving party to state upon
affidavit the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse
party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given, and that it
is considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as
improper, the trial shall not be postponed. It shall appear by the
affidavit of the party or otherwise that due diligence has been used to
obtain the evidence wanting before a postponement of the trial is made
therefor.
Sec. 768. An adjournment may be had either at the time of joining
issue or at any time subsequent, to which the case may stand adjourned
on application of either party for a period longer than ten days, but
not to exceed one month from the time of the return of the summons,
upon proof by the oath of the party, or otherwise, to the satisfaction
of the justice, that such party can not be ready for trial before the
time to which he desires an adjournment, for want of material evi
dence, particularly describing it, and that the delay has not been made
necessary by any act of negligence on his part since the action was
commenced ; that he has used due diligence (which shall be stated) to
procure it, and has been unable to do so, and that he expects to pro
cure the evidence at the time stated by him: Provided, That if the
adverse party admit that such evidence would be given, and consent
that it may be considered as given on the trial, or offered and over
ruled as improper, the adjournment shall not be had.
Sec. 764. No adjournment shall be granted for a period longer than
ten days upon the application of either party, except on condition
that such party file an undertaking, with sureties to be approved by
the justice, to the effect that they will pay to the opposite party the
amount of any judgment that may be recovered against the party
applying.
Sec. 765. If the plaintiff fails to appear at the time set for trial,
and the defendant appears and demands it, the action shall be dis
missed.
Sec. 766. If either party fails to appear at the time set for trial, or
fails to make the necessary pleading or proofs on his part, the case
may nevertheless proceed at the request of the party present, and
judgment shall be given in conformity with the pleadings and proofs.
Sec. 767. A trial by jury shall be demanded at the time of joining
issue, and shall be deemed waived if neither party then demand it ;
when demanded, the trial of the case shall be adjourned until a time
and place fixed for the return of the jury. If neither desire an adjourn
ment, the time and place shall be determined by the justice, and shall
be within the next two days, or the same day. The jury shall be sum
moned, upon an order of the justice, from the citizens of the city or
township, and not from the bystanders.
Sec. 768. At the time appointed for the trial, the justice shall pro
ceed to call from the jurors summoned the names of the persons to
constitute the jury for the trial of the issue. The jury, by consent of
the parties, may consist of any number not more than twelve nor less
than six, and shall not be summoned until their legal fees for one day's
service shall be paid into the hands of the justice by the party demand
ing the jury.
Sec. 769. Each juror shall be competent to serve as such in the
district court. If a sufficient number of competent jurors do not attend,
the justice shall direct others to be summoned from the vicinity, and
not from the by-standers, sufficient to complete the jury.
Sec. 770. Either party may challenge peremptorily one-half of the
jury. Challenge for cause may be made by either party for any cause
that a challenge for cause can be made in the district court. Chal
lenges for cause shall be tried by the justice.
Sec. 771.
Sec. 772.
Sec. 773.
Sec. 774.
Sec. 775.
Sec. 776.
Sec.
777.
Sec. 778.
Sec.
779.
Sec. 780.
Sec.
781.
Sec.
782.
Sec. 783.
CHAPTER IV.
JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.
Judgment entersd with costs ; when.
Defendant failing to appear, judgment for plaintiff; in what
case.
Justice to hear evidence and decide questions of fact and law.
Judgment to he rendered immediately after verdict.
When action against one or more defendants.
When judgment rendered exceed jurisdiction.
If defendant confess judgment.
When defendant subject to imprisonment to be stated in
judgment.
Judgment to be entered in favor of defendant; when.
Justice to give transcript of judgment.
Execution for enforcement of judgment; when issued.
Execution; to wftom directed.
Officer shall proceed to execute.
Sec. 771. Judgment that the action be dismissed without prejudice
to a new action may be entered with costs in the following cases :
First. When the plaintiff voluntarily dismisses the action before it
is finally submitted.
Second. When he fails to appear at the time set for trial, or within
one hour thereafter, and the defendant appears and demands that the
action be dismissed.
Third. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence,
that the action is brought in the wrong county ; but if the objection be
taken and overruled, it shall be cause only of reversal on appeal, and
shall not otherwise invalidate the judgment. If not taken at the trial,
it shall be deemed waived and shall not be cause of reversal.
Sec. 772. When the defendant fails to appear and answer, judg
ment shall be given for the plaintiff, as follows : When a copy of the
account, note, bill, or other obligation upon which the action is brought
was filed with the justice at the time the summons was issued, judg
ment shall be given without further evidence for the sum specified in
the summons.
Sec. 778. Upon issue joined, or when the defendant fails to appear,
except cases mentioned in the last section, if a trial by jury be not
demanded, the justice shall hear the evidence, and decide all questions
of fact and of law, and render judgment accordingly.
Sec. 774. Upon a verdict by a jury, the justice shall immediately
render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the justice, judg
ment shall be entered immediately after the trial, if the defendant has
been arrested and is still in custody. In other cases, it shall be entered
within four days after the close of the trial.
Sec. 775. If the action be on a contract against two or more defend
ants, and the summons be served on one or more but not on ail, the
judgment shall be entered up only against those who were served, if the
contract be a several or a joint and several contract ; but if the contract
be a joint contract only, the judgment shall be entered up against all
the defendants, but shall only be enforced against the joint property of
all and the separate property of the defendants served.
Sec. 776. When the amount found due to either party exceeds the
sum for which the justice is authorized to enter judgment, such party
may remit the excess, and judgment may be rendered for the residue.
Sec. 777. If the defendant at any time before trial, offer in writing
to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum, the plain
tiff may immediately have judgment therefor, with the costs there
accrued, but if he do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to
recover in the action a sum larger than the one mentioned in the offer,
he shall not recover any costs accruing after the offer was made, but
the offer and failure to accept shall not be given in evidence to affect
the recovery otherwise than as to costs.
Sec. 778. When a judgment is rendered in a case where the defend
ant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, it shall be so stated
in the judgment, and entered in the docket.
Sec. 779. When the prevailing party is in titled to costs by this chap
ter, the justice shall add their amount to the verdict, or in case of the
failure of the plaintiff to recover, or in case of the dismissal of the
action, shall enter up judgment in favor of the defendant for the amount
of such costs.
Sec. 780. The justice, on demand of the party in whose favor judg
ment is rendered, shall give him a transcript thereof, which may be
filed and docketed on the judgment docket in the office of the district
clerk of the county where the judgment was rendered. The time of the
receipt of the transcript by the district clerk shall be noted by him
thereon, and entered on the docket, and from that time the judgment shall
be a lien upon the real property of the defendant, the same as judg
ments in district courts ; and executions may be issued by the district
clerk, on such judgment, to the sheriff of any county of the Territory,
in the same manner as upon judgments rendered in the higher courts.
"No judgment rendered by a justice of the peace shall be a lien,
except when a transcript is filed, as above provided ; and no levy of an
execution from a justice's court shall be made on real property. When
such transcript is to be filed in any other county than the one in which
the justice resides, such transcript shall be accompanied by the certifi
cate of the county clerk as to the official character of the justice in the
county where he resides. Such judgment shall be a lien upon and bind
the lands and tenements of the judgment debtor, situated in the county
where the transcript may be filed and recorded in favor of such judg
ment creditor, as if such judgment had been rendered in the district
court of such county."
Note.—Act February 5th. 1876.
Sec. 781. Execution for the enforcement of judgment in a justice's
court may be issued on the application of the party entitled thereto, at
any time within five years from the entry of the judgment.
Sec. 782. The execution, when issued by a justice, shall be directed
to the sheriff, or to a constable of the county, and subscribed by the
justice issuing the same, and shall bear date the day of its delivery to
the officer to be executed ; it shall intelligibly refer to the judgment by
stating the names of the parties, and the name of the justice before
whom, and of the county where, and the time when, it was rendered, the
amount of the judgment, if it be for money, and if less than the whole
is due, the amount due thereon ; it shall contain, in like cases, similar
directions to the sheriff or constable as are required in executions issued
by the clerk of the district court, except as to levying on real property.
Sec. 783. The sheriff or constable to whom the execution is delivered,
shall proceed to execute the same in the same manner as the sheriff is
required to execute executions issued by the clerk of the district court,
and the constable, when the execution is directed to him, shall be
vested for that purpose with all the power of the sheriff, except as to
levying on real property, and after issuing an execution, and either
before or after its return (if the same be returned unsatisfied either in
whole or in part), the judgment creditor shall be entitled to an order
from the justice requiring the judgment debtor to attend at a time to
be designated in the order, and answer concerning his property before
such justice, and the attendance of such may be enforced by the
justice. On his attendance, such debtor may be examined on oath,
concerning his property, and any person alleged to have in his hands
property, moneys, effects, or credits of the judgment debtor, may also
be required to attend and be examined, and the justice may order any
property in the hands of the judgment debtor, or any other person, not
exempt from execution, belonging to such debtor, to be applied towards
the satisfaction of such judgment, and the justice may enforce such
order by imprisonment until complied with ; but no judgment debtor or
other person shall be required to attend before any justice out of the
county in which he resides.
Sec. 784. The provisions of this act, in relation to parties to actions
in the district courts, and relative to practice, pleading, and trial,
shall, so far as the same^are applicable, and do not conflict with this title, be observed in justices' courts.
Sec. 785. Every justice shall keep a book denominated a docket,
in which he shall enter :
First. The title of every action or proceeding.
Second. The object of the action or proceeding, and if a sum of
money be claimed, the amount of the demand.
Third. The date of the summons, and the time of its return ; and
if an order to arrest the defendant be made, or a writ of attachment
be issued, a statement of these facts.
Fourth. The time when the parties, or either of them, appear, or
their non-appearance if default be made ; a minute of the pleadings
and motions, if in writing, referring to them, if not in writing, a con
cise statement of the material parts of the pleadings, and of all motions
made during the trial by either party, and nis decisions thereon.
Fifth. Every adjournment, stating on whose application, whether
on oath, evidence, or consent, and to what time.
Sixth. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is made, and
by whom made, the order for the jury, and the time appointed for the
trial, and return of the jury.
Seventh. The names of the jury who appear and are sworn, the
names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose request.
Eighth. The verdict of the jury, and when received, if the jury dis
agree and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge.
Ninth. The judgment of the court, specifying the costs included,
and the time when rendered.
Tenth. The issuing of the execution, when issued, and to whom
delivered, the renewals thereof, if any, and when made, and a state
ment of any money paid to the justice, and when and by whom.
Eleventh. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given, and of
the appeal bond, if any be filed, with the amount thereof, and the names
of the sureties.
Twelfth. A note of any other proceedings taken in the action or
proceedings.
Sec. 786. The several particulars of the last section specified shall
be entered under the title to the action to which they relate, and at the
time when they occur. Such entries in a justice's docket, or a trans
cript thereof certified to by the justice or his successor in office, shall
be primary evidence to prove the facts so stated therein.
Sec. 787. A justice shall keep an alphabetical index to his docket,
in which shall be entered the names of the parties to each judgment,
with a reference to the page of entry. The names of the plaintiffs
shall be entered in the index in the alphabetical order of the first letter
of the family names.
Sec. 788. It shall be the duty of every justice upon the expiration
of his term ot office, to deposit with his successor his official dockets,
as well his own as those of his predecessors, which may be in his
custody, to be kept as public records. If the office of a justice become
vacant by his death, removal from the township or city, or otherwise,
before his successor is elected and qualified, the dockets in possession
of such justice shall be deposited with the county clerk of the county,
to be by him delivered to his successor in office of the justice.
Sec. 789. Any justice with whom a docket of his predecessor is
deposited, may issue execution or other process upon a judgment there
entered and unsatisfied, in the same manner and with the same effect
as the justice with whom the judgment was entered might have done.
In case of the creation of a new county, or the change of the bounda
ries between two counties, any justice, in whose hands the docket of a
justice, formerly acting as such within the same Territory, may come,
shall, for the purpose of this section, be considered the successor of
said former justice.
Sec. 790. The justice elected to fill a vacancy shall be deemed the
successor of the justice whose office became vacant before the expira
tion of a full term. When a full term expires the same or another per
son elected to take office in the same township or city from that time
shall be deemed the successor.
Sec. 791. The summons, execution, and every other paper made or
issued by a justice, except a subpoena, shall be filled up without a blank
left to be filled by another, otherwise it shall be void.
Sec. 792. In case of sickness or other disability, or necessary
absence of a justice on a return of summons, or at anytime appointed
for a trial, another justice of the same county may, at his request,
attend in his behalf, and shall thereupon become vested with the power
for the time being, of the justice before whom the summons was return
able. In that case the proper entry of the proceedings before the
attending justice, subscribed by him, shall be made in the docket of the
justice before whom the summons was returnable.
Sec. 793. A justice may, at the request of a party, and on being
satisfied that it is expedient, specially depute any discreet person of
suitable age, and not interested in the action, to serve a summons or
execution with or without an order, to arrest the defendant with or
without a writ of attachment. Said justice shall be liable on his
official bond for all official acts of the person so deputed. Such
deputation shall be in writing made on the process, and a note thereof
made in the justice's docket.
Sec. 794. The person so deputed shall have the authority of a con
stable in relation to the service, execution, and return of such process,
and shall be subject to the same obligations.
Sec. 795. A constable, notwithstanding the expiration of his term
of office, may proceed and complete the execution of all final process
which he has begun to execute, in the same manner as if he were still
in office, and his sureties shall be liable to the Bame extent.
Sec. 796. A justice may punish any person guilty of a contempt of
his court, as defined by this act, by fine or imprisonment, or both, but
such fine shall not exceed one hundred dollars, nor imprisonment shall
not exceed one day.
Sec. 797. The acts for which the person is convicted shall be par
ticularly specified in the justice's docket, and the judgment entered
thereon.
Sec. 798. Justices of the peace may issue subpoenas in any action
or proceeding in the courts held by them, and final process on any
judgment recovered therein, to any part of the coupty.
Sec. 799. Depositions may be taken in the same manner, to be used
in justices' courts, as they are taken to be used in the district court.
Sec. 800. A new trial may be granted by the justice, on motion,
within ten days after the entry of judgment, for any of the following
causes :
First. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against.
Second. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion.
Third. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict, or other
decision.
Fourth. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making
the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered and produced at the trial.
Sec. 801. The application shall be made upon affidavit and notice ;
the affidavit shall be filed with the justice, with a statement of the
grounds upon which the party intends to rely. The adverse party may
use counter-affidavits on the motion, provided they be filed one day
previous to the hearing of the motion.
Sec. 802. Any party dissatisfied with a judgment rendered in a jus
tice's court, may appeal therefrom to the district court of the county,
at any time within thirty days after the rendition of the judgment.
The appeal shall be taken by filing a notice of appeal with the justice,
and serving a copy of the same upon the adverse party.
Sec. 808. The party appealing shall file with the justice, within the
time allowed for taking an appeal, an undertaking in double the
amount of the judgment appealed from, or if the judgment be for the
recovery of specific personal property, in double the value of such
property, with sufficient sureties, and conditioned that the party
appealing will pay any judgment that may be rendered against him in
the district court, as well as all costs that may be awarded against him,
and for the prosecution of such appeal to effect, or if the party in
whose favor judgment is rendered appeals, the bond shall be condi
tioned for the prosecution of the appeal to effect and for the payment
of all costs that may be adjudged against the appealing party. The
undertaking shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties that
they are residents of the county, and are each worth, over and above
their debts, liabilities, and property by law exempt from execution, the
amount specified in the undertaking, but several sureties may state
that they are worth sums less than the amount stated in the under
taking besides such exemptions, if the whole amount equals the amount
of two sufficient sureties.
Sec. 804. Upon receiving the notice of appeal and the undertaking,
as provided in the last section, and payment of fees therefor, the
justice shall make out a full and complete transcript from his docket
of all the proceedings in the action before him, and transmit it,
together with all the motions, pleadings, and all other papers belong
ing to the said cause, to the clerk of the district court of the county,
which transcript shall be certified by such justice, within ten days
after the filing of the appeal, bond, and notice of appeal ; the justice
may be compelled by an order of the district court entered on motion,
to transmit any or all of such papers, and may be fined for neglect or
refusal to transmit the same.
Sec. 805. If the party appealing fail to reduce or enlarge the judg
ment appealed from ten dollars or more, or revise the same in the dis
trict court, he shall not recover any of the costs of the appeal.
Sec. 806. All appeals from justices' courts shall be tried anew in
the district court, on the papers filed in the justice's court, unless the
court, for good cause shown, and on such terms as may be just, allow
other papers to be filed in such action. Either party may demand a
trial by jury in the district court. Each party shall have the benefit
of all legal objections made in the justice's court.
Sec. 807. If an execution shall have been issued on a judgment
appealed from, on the filing of the appeal bond, the justice shall by
order direct the officer to stay all proceedings on the same. Such
officer shall, upon payment of his fees for services rendered on the exe
cution, thereupon relinquish all property levied upon, and deliver the
same to the judgment debtor, together with all moneys collected from
sales or otherwise. If his fees be not paid, the officer may retain so
much of the property or proceeds thereof as may be necessary to pay
the same.
Sec. 808. Costs shall be allowed the prevailing party in justices'
courts.
Sec. 809. Justices of the peace shall receive from the sheriff or
constable of their (respective) counties, all moneys collected on any
process or order issued by their courts respectively, and all moneys
paid to them in the official capacity, and shall pay the same over to the
parties entitled or authorized to receive them without delay. For a
violation of this section they may be removed from their office, and
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
Sec. 810. Justices of the peace may in all cases require a deposit of
money or an undertaking as surety for costs of court before issuing a
summons.
Sec. 811. The act entitled "An act to regulate proceedings in civil
cases in the courts of justice of Montana Territory," passed at the first
session of the legislative assembly of Montana Territory; the act
entitled "An act to regulate proceedings in civil cases in the courts of
justice of Montana Territory," approved December twenty -third, 1867,
and all acts amendatory to said last mentioned acts, and all other acts
or parts of acts in conflict with the provisions of this act, are hereby
repealed.
Sec. 812. This act shall take effect and be in force on and after the
first day of August, A. D. 1872.
Approved January 12th, 1872.
Note—Sections 676 to 812, inclusive of the foregoing code, except where otherwise
specially noted are taken from the Act of January i2th, 1872.
TITLE XIX.
UNREPEALED LAWS.
Sec. 813. Limitation to the issuing of an execution.
Sec. 814. Procedure to collect costs.
Sec. 815. Officers to furnish an itemized account of his costs.
Sec. 816. Bills of exceptions; when to be signed.
Sec. 817. Bill of exceptions on an appeal from an order deciding motion
for new trial.
Sec. 818. Mileage of officer when serving more than one process in same
direction.
Sec. 819. Judgment for costs.
Sec. 820. Costs in probate court to follow the judgment regardless of the
amount.
Sec. 813. After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment,
an execution can only be issued by leave of the court, upon motion,
with personal notice to the adverse party, unless he be absent, or
non-resident, or can not be found, to make such service, in which
case service may be made by publication or in such other manner as
the court shall direct ; such leave shall not be given unless it be estab
lished by the oath of the party, or other satisfactory proof, that the
judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied and due ; but the
leave shall not be necessary when the execution has been issued on the
judgment within the five years, and returned unsatisfied in whole or in
part.
Sec. 814. In all cases, after final judgment, it shall be lawful for
the clerk to make out a tax bill of costs against the party incurring
said costs, and certify the same under the seal of the court, which,
being delivered to the sheriff of the proper county, he shall demand
payment thereof from the person therein charged, and if payment shall
not be made within twenty days after such demand, the sheriff shall
levy the same on the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the
person so chargeable, and proceed thereon in all things as on a writ of
execution.
Sec. 815. And to the end that all persons chargeable with fees due
to any sheriff, clerk, or any officer of any court in this Territory, may
certainly know for what the same is chargeable, none of the fees of any
such officers shall be payable to any such officer, until an itemized
account of the same shall have been presented to the person charge
able with the same, and signed by the officer to whom the same are
payable, or until a fee-bill shall have been issued by the clerk as above
provided.
Sec. 816. All bills of exceptions shall be reduced to form unless
noted by the clerk and signed during the term in which the same is
tried, except in cases where the counsel consent, or the judge, by an
entry on the record, direct that it may be prepared in vacation, and
signed nunc pro tunc. The bill of exceptions must be signed by the
judge who tried the cause, and if he has inadvertantly omitted to sign
a bill of exceptions, he may, on motion, be permitted to do so, although
his term of office has expired, or said office has otherwise become
vacant.
Sec. 817. When a motion for new trial is heard and decided upon
the minutes of the judge, and an appeal is taken from the decision, a
bill of exceptions must be settled in the usual form, upon which the
argument of the appeal must be had.
Sec. 818. When any sheriff, constable, or coroner serves more than
one process or notice in the same direction, not requiring more than
one journey from his office, he shall charge for and receive mileage
only for the most distant service.
Sec. 819. Upon the dismissal or other disposition of an action in
which the court has jurisdiction of the subject matter of the action, it
shall be the duty of the court to rend§r such judgment for costs as is
according to law.
Sec. 820. In all cases adjudicated in the probate court, the costs
shall follow the judgment without reference to the amount or value of
the property in controversy, and such costs shall be taxed by said
court in favor of the prevailing party.
Sec. 1. The probate court has jurisdiction :
First. To open and receive proof of last wills and testaments, and
to admit them to probate.'
Second. To grant letters testamentary, of administration, and of
guardianship, and to revoke the same.
Third. To appoint appraisers of estates of deceased persons.
Fourth. To compel executors, administrators, and guardians to
render accounts. •
Fifth. To order the sale of property of estates or belonging to
minors.
Sixth. To order the payment of debts due from estates.
Seventh. To order and regulate all distributions and partitions of
property or estates of deceased persons.
Eighth. To compel the attendance of witnesses and the production
of title deeds, papers, and other property of an estate or of a minor.
Ninth. To exercise the powers conferred by this act.
Tenth. To make such orders as may be necessary to the exercise of
the powers conferred upon it.
The proceedings of probate courts shall be construed in the same
manner and with like intendments as the proceedings of courts of gen
eral jurisdiction, and to its records, judgments, and decrees there is
accorded like force and effect and legal presumptions, as to the records,
orders, decrees, and judgments of district courts.
Sec. 2. The judges of probate courts may, at chambers, appoint
appraisers, receive inventories and accounts, to be filed in probate
court ; suspend the powers of executors, administrators, or guardians,
in the cases allowed by law ; grant special letters of administration or
guardianship ; approve claims and bonds, and direct the issuance from
the probate courts of all writs and processes necessary in the exercise
of their power.
Sec. 8. Any probate judge may hold terms, or portions of terms, in
any other county than, as well as in, that for which he was elected, in
cases of sickness of the proper judge, or to hear, try, adjudicate, and
determine all causes and matters in which the probate judge of the
proper county is interested or has been employed as an attorney, or is
disqualified by law from trying or adjudicating.
Sec. 4. When, from any of the causes mentioned in the preceding section, a term or part of a term of a probate court can not be held in
a county by the judge thereof, the judge disqualified may, by the con
sent of parties to the action or proceedings, which such judge is dis
qualified from adjudicating, designate the county, or probate judge of
some other county, to hold such term or portion of term ; and if the
parties fail thus to consent, a certificate of such fact of disqualifica
tion, or in case of sickness of the judge, then of the fact of such sick
ness, must be transmitted by the clerk of such court to the governor,
who must thereupon direct some probate judge of a neighboring county
to hold such term or part of term.
Sec. 5. The seal of the court need not be affixed to any proceedings
therein, except :
First. To a writ.
Second. To the proof of a will or the appointment of an executor,
administrator, or guardian.
Third. To the authentication of a copy of a record or other pro
ceeding of the court, or officer thereof, for the purpose of being used
in evidence in another court.
ARTICLE II.
OF LOCAL JURISDICTION.
See. 6. County where wills may be proved and letters granted.
Sec. 7. When court, of first county petitioned to have exclusive juris
diction.
Sec. 6. Wills must be proved, and letters testamentary or of
administration granted :
First. In the county of which the decedent was a resident at the
time of his death, in whatever place be may have died.
Second. In the county in which the decedent may have died leaving
estate therein, he not being a resident of the Territory.
Third. In the county in which any part of the estate may be, the
decedent having died out of the Territory, and not resident thereof at
the time of his death.
Fourth. In the county in which any part of the estate may be, the
decedent not being a resident of the Territory, and not having estate
in the county in which he died.
Fifth. In all other cases, in the county where application for letters
is first made.
Sec. 7. When the estate of decedent is in more than one county,
he having died out of the Territory, and not having been a resident
thereof at the time of his death, or, being such non-resident, and dying
within the Territory, and not leaving estate in the county where he
died, the probate court of that county in which application is first
made for letters testamentary or of administration, has exclusive
jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate.
CHAPTER H.
ARTICLE I.
PROBATE OF WILLS.
Sec. 8. Duty of custodian of a will.
Sec. 9. Interested party may petition to have will proved.
Sec. 10. Petition for probate of will must show.
Sec. 11. Executor failing to petition renounces his right.
Sec. 12. Will in possession of third party.
Sec. 18. Hearing of petition and. notice of.
Sec. 14. Notice, how addressed and on whom served.
Sec. 15. Powers of judge at chambers concerning wills.
Sec. 16. Proof of notice and proof of wiU.
Sec. 17. Who may contest will.
Sec. 18. Will admitted to probzte on testimony of one witness.
Sec. 19. Olographic wills proved as other writings are.
Sec. 8. Every custodian of a will, within thirty days after receipt
of information that the maker thereof is dead, must deliver the same
to the probate court having jurisdiction of the estate, or to the executor
named therein. A failure to comply with the provisions of this section
makes the person failing responsible for all damages sustained by any
one injured thereby.
Sec. 9. Any executor, devisee, or legatee named in any will, or any
other person interested in the estate, may, at any time after the death
of the testator, petition the court having jurisdiction to have the will
proved, whether the same be in writing in his possession or not, or is
lost or destroyed, or beyond the jurisdiction of the Territory, or a
nuncupative will.
Sec. 10. A petition for the probate of a will must show :
First. The jurisdictional facts.
Second. Whether the person named as executor consents to act, or
renounces his right to letters testamentary.
Third. The names, ages, and residence of the heirs and devisees of
the decedent, so far as known to the petitioner.
Fourth. The probable value and character of the property of the
estate.
Fifth. The name of the person for whom letters testamentary are
prayed.
No defect of form or in the statement of jurisdictional facts actually
existing shall make void the probate of a will.
Sec. 11. If the person named in a will as executor, for thirty days
after he has knowledge of the death of the testator, and that he is
named as executor, fails to petition the proper court for the probate of
the will, and that letters testamentary be issued to him, he has
renounced his right to letters, and the court may appoint any other
competent person administrator, unless good cause for delay is
shown.
Sec. 12. If it is alleged in any petition that any will is in the pos
session of a third person, and the court is satisfied that the allegation
is correct, an order must be issued and served upon the person having
possession of the will, requiring him to produce it at a time named in
the order. If he has possession of the will, and neglects or refuses to
produce it in obedience to the order, he may, by warrant from the
court, be committed to the jail of the county, and be kept in close con
finement until he produces it.
Sec. 13. When the petition is filed and the will produced, the pro
bate judge must fix a day for hearing the petition, not less than ten
nor more than thirty days from the production of the will. Notice of
the hearing shall be given by the clerk of the court, by publishing the
same in a newspaper of the county ; if there be none, then by three
written or printed notices posted at three of the most public places in
the county. If the notice is published in a weekly newspaper, it must
appear therein on at least three different days of publication, and if in
a newspaper published oftener than once a week, it shall be so pub
lished that there must be at least ten days from the first to the last
day of publication, both the first and the last day being included. If
the notice is by posting, it must be given at least ten days before the
hearing.
Sec. 14. Copies of the notice of the time appointed for the probate
of the will must be addressed to the heirs of the testator resident in the
Territory, at their places of residence, if known to the petitioner, and
deposited in the post office, with the postage thereon prepaid, at least
ten days before the hearing. If their places of residence be not known,
the copies of notice may be addressed to them and deposited in the
post office at the county seat of the county where the proceedings are
pending. A copy of the same notice must in like manner be mailed
to the person named as executor, if he be not the petitioner ; also, to
any person named as co-executor, not petitioning, if their places of
residence be known. Proof of mailing the copies of the notice must be
made at the hearing. Personal service of copies of the notice at least
ten days before the day of the hearing is equivalent to mailing.
Sec. 15. The probate judge may, out of term time or at chambers,
receive petitions for the probate of wills, and make and issue all necess
ary orders and writs to enforce the production of wills and the attend
ance of witnesses, and may appoint special terms of his court for hear
ing the petitions, trials of is8ues,*and admitting wills to probate.
Sec. 16. At the time appointed for the hearing, or the time to which
the hearing may have been postponed, the court, unless the parties
appear, must require proof that the notice has been given, which being
made, the court must hear testimoney in proof of the will.
Sec. 17. Any person interested may appear and contest the will.
Devisees, legatees, or heirs of an estate may contest the will through
their guardians, or attorneys appointed by themselves or by the court
for that purpose ; but a contest made by an attorney appointed by the
court, does not bar a contest after probate by the party so represented,
if commenced within the time provided in Article IV of this chapter ;
nor does the non- appointment of an attorney by the court of itself
invalidate the probate of a will.
Sec. 18. If no person appears to contest the probate of a will, the
court may admit it to probate on the testimoney of one of the subscrib
ing witnesses only, if he testifies that the will was executed in all par
ticulars as required by law, and that the testator was of sound mind at
the time of its execution.
Sec. 19. An olographic will may be proved in the same manner that
other writings are proved.
ARTICLE H.
CONTESTING PROBATE OF WILLS.
Sec. 20. Proceedings to contest will.
Sec. 21. Trial by jury and trial by court.
Sec. 22. Special verdict ; judgment; proofs to be recorded.
Sec. 23. When will contested and witnesses absent, how proved.
Sec. 24. Written evidence subscribed, perpetuated.
Sec. 25. Court being satisfied must attach certificate of proof.
Sec. 26. WiU,'proof and testimoney recorded by the clerk.
Sec. 20. If any one appears to contest the will, he must file written
grounds of oppopition to the probate thereof, and serve a copy on the
petitioner and other residents of the county interested in the estate, any
one or more of whom may demur thereto to any of the grounds of
demurrer provided for in the civil practice act of this Territory appli
cable thereto. If the demurrer is sustained, the court must allow the
contestant a reasonable time, not exceeding ten days, within which to
amend his written opposition. If the demurer is overruled, the petitioner
and others interested may jointly or separately answer the contestant's
grounds, traversing or otherwise obviating or avoiding the objections.
Any issues of fact thus raised, involving : 1, the competency of the dece
dent to make a last will and testamen.t ; 2, the freedom of the decedent, at
the time of the execution of the will, from duress, menace, fraud, or
undue influence ; 3, the due execution and attestation of the will by the
decedent or subscribing witnesses ; or. 4, any other substantial grounds
affecting the validity of the will, munc, on request of either party in
writing filed three days prior to the day set for the hearing, be tried by
a jury. If no jury is demanded, the court must try and determine the
issues joined.
On the trial the contestant is plaintiff, and the petitioner is defendant.
Sec. 21. When a jury is demanded, the probate court must sum
mon and impannel a jury to try the case in the manner provided for
summoning and impanneling trial juries in courts of record, and the
trial must be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the civil
practice act for trials of issues of fact. A trial by the court must be
conducted as provided in said civil practice act in cases of trials by the
court.
Sec. 22. The jury, after hearing the case, must return a special
verdict upon the issues submitted to them by the court ; upon which
the judgment of the court must be rendered, either admitting the will
to probate or rejecting it. In either case the proofs of the subscribing
witnesses must be reduced to writing. If the will is admitted to pro
bate, the judgment, will, and proofs must be recorded.
Sec. 23. If the will is contested, all the subscribing witnesses who
are present in the county, and who are of sound mind, must be pro
duced and examined, and the death, absence or insanity of any of
them must be satisfactorily shown to the court. If none of the sub
scribing witnesses reside in the county at the time appointed for
proving the will, the court may admit the testimony of other witnesses
to prove the sanity of the testator and the execution of the will ; and,
as evidence of the execution, it may admit proof of the handwriting of
the testator and of the subscribing witnesses, or any of them.
Sec. 24. The testimony of each witness, reduced to writing and
signed by him, shall be good evidence in any subsequent contests con
cerning the validity of the will, or the sufficiency of the proof thereof,
if the witness be dead or. has permanently removed from the Territory.
Sec. 25. If the court is satisfied upon the proof taken, or from the
facts found by the jury, that the will was duly executed, and that the
testator, at the time of its execution, was of sound and disposing
mind, and not acting under duress, menace, fraud or undue influence,
a certificate of the proof and the facts found, signed by the probate
judge, and attested by the seal of the court, must be attached to the
will.
Sec. 26. The will and certificate of the proof thereof, together with
all the testimony taken, must be filed by the clerk, and recorded by
him in a book to be provided for the purpose.
ARTICLE III.
PROBATE OF FOREIGN WILLS.
Sec. 27. Proved foreign wills to be allowed and recorded.
Sec. 28. When produced by interested party 'what notice to be giuen.
Sec. 29. Foreign proved will as effective as if proved here.
Sec. 27. Every will duly proved and allowed in any other State or
Territory of the United States, or in any foreign country or State, may
be allowed and recorded in the probate court of any county in which
the testator shall have left any estate.
Sec. 28. When a copy of the will and the probate thereof, duly
authenticated, shall be produced by the executor, or by any other
person interested in the will, with a petition for letters, the same must
be filed, and the court or judge must appoint a time for the hearing ;
notice whereof must be given as hereinbefore provided for an original
petition for the probate of a will.
Sec. 29. If, on the hearing, it appears upon the face of the record
that the will has been proved, allowed, and admitted to probate, in any
other State or Territory of the United States, or m any foreign
country, and that it was executed according to the law of the place in
which the same was made, or in which the testator was at the time
domiciled, or in conformity with the laws of this Territory, it must be
admitted to probate, and have the same force and effect as a will
admitted to probate in this Territory, and letters testamentary, or of
administration issued thereon.
ARTICLE IV.
CONTESTING WILLS AFTER PKOBATE.
Sec. 30. Will may be contested within one year after probate; petition
for.
Sec. 31. Citation to show cause to issue to all parties.
Sec. 32. Trial upon citation to show cause. . •
Sec. 33. Probate may be annulled upon trial In/ jury or court.
Sec. 34. Powers and liabilities of executor on revocation.
Sec. 35. Costs on petition to revoke.
Sec. 36. Limitation to contests.
Sec. 30. When a will has been admitted to probate, any person inter
ested may, at any time within one year after such probate, contest the
same, or the validity of the will. For that purpose he must file in the
court in which the will was proved a petition, in writing, containing hia
allegations against the validity of the will, or against the sufficiency of
the proof, and praying that the probate may be revoked.
Sec. 31. Upon filing the petition, a citation must be issued to the
executors of the will, or to the administrators, with the will annexed,
and to all the legatees and devisees mentioned in the will, and heirs
residing in the Territory, so far as known to the petitioner, or to their
guardians, if any of them are minors ; or to their personal representa
tives, if any of them are dead, requiring them to appear before the
court, on some day of a regular term therein specified, to show cause
why the probate of the will should not be revoked.
Sec. 32. At the time appointed for showing cause, or at any time
to which the hearing is postponed, personal service of the citations
having been made upon any persons named therein, the court must
proceed to try the issues of fact joined in the same manner as in an
original contest of a will.
Sec. 33. In all cases of petitions to revoke the probate of a will,
wherein the original probate was granted without a contest, on written
demand of either party, filed three days prior to the hearing, a trial
by jury must be had, as in cases of the contest of an original petition
to admit a will to probate. If, upon hearing the proofs of the parties,
the jury shall find, or, if no jury is had, the court shall decide, that
the will is for any reason invalid, or that it is not sufficiently proved to
be the last will of the testator, the probate must be annulled and
revoked.
Sec. 34. Upon the revocation being made, the powers of the executor
or administrator, with the will annexed, must cease ; but such executor
or administrator shall not be liable for any act done in good faith pre
vious to the revocation.
Sec. 36. The fees and expenses must be paid by the party contest
ing the validity or probate of the will, if the will in probate be con
firmed. If the probate is revoked, the costs must be paid by the party
who resisted the revocation, or out of the property of the decedent, as
the court directs.
Sec. 36. If no person, within one year after the probate of a will,
contest the will or the validity thereof, the probate of the will is con
clusive ; saving to infants, and persons of unsound mind, a like period
of one year after their respective disabilities are removed.
AETICLE V.
PROBATE OF LOST OR DESTROYED WILL.
Sec. 37. Proof of lost or destroyed will.
Sec. 38. What must be proven of a lost or destroyed will.
Sec. 39. Proceedings when lost will is established.
Sec. 40. Previous administrator or executor may be restrained.
Sec. 37. Whenever any will is lost or destroyed, the probate court
must take proof of the execution and validity thereof, and establish the
same ; notice to all persons interested being first given, as prescribed
in regard to proofs of wills in other cases. All the testimony given
must be reduced to writing, and signed by the witnesses.
Sec. 38. No will shall be proved as a lost or destroyed will unless
the same is proved to have been in existence at the time of the death
.of the testator, or is shown to have been fraudulently destroyed in the
lifetime of the testator ; nor unless its provisions are clearly and dis
tinctly proved by at least two credible witnesses.
Sec. 39. When a lost will is established, the provisions thereof
must be distinctly stated and certified by the probate judge, under his
hand and the seal of the court ; and the certificate, together with the
testimony upon which it is founded, must be filed and recorded as other
wills are filed and recorded ; and letters testamentary or of adminis
tration, with the will annexed, must be issued thereon, in the same
manner as upon will produced and duly proved. The testimony must
be reduced to writing, signed, certified, and filed as in other cases, and
shall have the same effect as evidence, as provided in section 20 of
this chapter.
Sec. 40. If, before or during the pendency of an application to
prove a lost or destroyed will, letters of administration are granted on
the estate of the testator, or letters testamentary of any previous will
of the testator are granted, the court may restrain the administrators
or executors so appointed from any acts or proceedings which would
be injurious to the legatees or devisees claiming under the lost or
destroved will.
Sec. 41. Nuncupative wills may, at any time within six months
after the testamentary words are spoken by the decedent, be admitted
to probate on petition and notice as provided in Article I Chapter II,
of this act. The petition, in addition to the jurisdictional facts, must,
allege that the testamentary words, or the substance thereof, were
reduced to writing within thirty days after they were spoken, which
writing must accompany the petition.
Sec. 42. The probate court must not receive or entertain a petition
for the probate of a nuncupative will until the lapse of fourteen days
from the death of the testator, nor must such petition at any time be
acted on until the testamentary words are, or their substance is,
redhced to writing and filed with the petition, nor until the surviving
husband or wife, if any, and all the other persons, resident in the Terri
tory or county, interested in the estate, are notified as hereinbefore pro
vided.
Sec. 43. Contests of the probate of nuncupative wills, and appoint
ments of executors and administrators of the estate devised thereby,
must be had, conducted, and made as hereinbefore provided in cases of
the probate of written wills.
CHAPTER III.
ARTICLE I.
LETTERS TESTAMENTARY AND OF ADMINISTRATION — HOW AND TO
WHOM ISSUED.
Sec. 44. Letters to executors; must qualify.
Sec. 45. Who incompetent to act as executor; letters with the will
annexed.
Sec. 46. Olfaction to executors and pitition for administration.
Sec. 47. Effect of marriage when woman appointed executrix.
Sec. 48. On death of executor how administered.
Sec. 49. In case of executor be a minor or absent from the Territory.
Sec. 50. When one or a majority of executors or administrators may act.
Sec. 51. Letters and powers of administrators with the will annexed.
Sec. 44. The court admitting a will to probate, after the same is
proved and allowed, must issue letters thereon to the persons named,
therein as executors, who are competent to discharge the trust, who
must appear and qualify, unless objection is made, as provided in section 41 of this act.
Sec. 45. No person is competent to serve as executor who, at the
time the will is admitted to probate, is :
First. Under the age of majority.
Second. Convicted of an infamous crime.
Third. Adjudged by the court incompetent to execute the duties of
the trust by reason of drunkenness, improvidence or want of under
standing or integrity, or who is absent from or resides out of the Terri
tory.
If the sole executor, or all the executors are incompetent, or renounce
or fail to apply for letters, or to appear and qualify, letters %f adminis
tration, with the will annexed, must be issued.
Sec. 46. Any person interested in a will may file objections in writ
ing to granting letters testamentary to the persons named as executors,
or any of them, and the objections must be heard and determined by
the court. A petition may at the 'same time be filed for letters of
administration with the will annexed.
Sec. 47. When an unmarried woman, appointed executrix, marries,
her authority is extinguished. When a married woman is named as
executrix, she may be appointed and serve in every respect as a. feme
sole.
Sec. 48. No executor of an executor shall, as such, be authorized
to administer on the estate of the first testator, but on the death of the
sole or surviving executor of any last will, letters of administration,
with the will annexed, of the estate of the first testator left unadministered,
must be issued.
Sec. 49. Where a person absent from the Territory, or a minor, is
named executor, if there is another executor who accepts the trust and
qualifies, the latter may have letters testamentary and administer the
estate until the return of the absentee, or the majority of the minors, who
may then be admitted a joint executor. If there is no other executor,
letters of administration, with the will annexed^, must be granted,
but the court may, in its discretion, revoke them on the return of the
absent executor or the arrival of the minor at the age of majority.
Sec. 50. When all the executors named are not appointed by the
court, those appointed have the same authority to perform all acts and
to discharge the trust required by the will as effectually for every pur
pose as if all were appointed and should act together. Where there
are two executors or administrators, the act of one alone shall be effect
ual if the other is absent from the Territory, or laboring under any
legal disability from serving, or if he has given his co-executors or
co-administrators authority, in writing, to act for both ; and where
there are more than two executors or administrators, the act of the
majority shall be valid.
Sec. 51. Administrators, with the will annexed, have the same
authority over the estates which executors named in the will would
have, and their acts are as effectual for all purposes. Their letters
must be signed by the clerk of the court, and bear the seal of the
court.
ARTICLE II.
FORM OF LETTERS.
Sec. 52. Form of letters testamentary.
Sec. 53. Form of letters with will annexed.
Sec. 54. Form of letters of administration.
Sec. 52. Letters testamentary must be substantially in the follow
ing form:
"Territory of Montana, County of :
"The last will of A B, deceased, a copy of which is hereto annexed,
having been proved and recorded in the probate court of the county of, C D, who is named therein, is hereby appointed executor.
"Witness, G H, clerk of said county, with the seal of said court
affixed, this the day of , A. D. 18^-.
"By order of the court.
[l. s.] . "G H, Clerk."
Sec. 53. Letters of administration with the will annexed must be
substantially in the following form :
"Territory of Montana, County of :
"The last will of A B, deceased, a copy of which is hereto annexed,
having been proved and recorded in the probate court of the county
of , and there being no executor named in said will (or as the
case may be), C D is hereby appointed administrator with the will
annexed.
"Witness, G H, clerk of said court, with the seal thereof affixed, this
the day of •, A.D. 18—.
"By order of the court.
[l. a.] "G H, Clerk."
Sec. 54. Letters pf administration must be signed by the clerk,
under the seal of the court, and substantially in the following form :
"Territory of Montana, County of ;
"C D is hereby appointed administrator of the estate of A B, deceased.
"Witness, G H, clerk of the probate court of said county, with seal
thereof affixed, this the ■ day of , A. D. 18 —.
"By order of the court.
[l. b.] "G H, Clerk."
ARTICLE III.
LETTERS OF ADMINISTRATION—TO WHOM AND THE ORDER IN WHICH
GRANTED.
Sec. 55. To whom granted and who entitled to.
Sec. 56. Preference where persons equally entitled.
Sec. 57. When court to exercise its discretion in appointing.
Sec. 58. Letters granted to guardian of minor.
Sec. 59. Who incompetent to serve.
Sec. 60. Marriage disqualifies a woman.
Sec. 55. Administrators of the estate of a person dying intestate,
must be granted to some one or more of the persons hereinafter men
tioned, who are respectively entitled thereto, m the following order :
First. The surviving husband or wife, or some competent person,
whom he or she may request to have appointed.
Second. The children.
Third. The father and mother.
Fourth. The brothers.
Fifth. The sisters.
Sixth. The grandchildren.
Seventh. The next of kin entitled to share in distribution of the
estate.
Eighth. The creditors.
Ninth. The public administrator.
Tenth. Any person legally competent.
If the decedent was a member of a co-partnership at the time of his
death, the surviving partner must in no instance be appointed admin
istrator of the estate ; and, provided further, that no person who is not
a resident of this Territory shall be appointed administrator.
Sec. 56. Of several persons claiming and equally entitled to admin
ister, males must be preferred to females, and relatives of the whole
blood to those of the half blood.
Sec. 57. When there are several persons equally entitled to the
administration, the court may grant letters to one or more of them ;
and when a creditor is claiming letters, the court may, in its discretion,
at the request of another creditor, grant letters to any other person
legally competent.
Sec. 58. If any person entitled to administration is a minor, letters
must be granted to his or her guardian, or any other person entitled to
letters of administration, in the discretion of "the court.
Sec. 59. No person is competent to serve as administrator or
administratrix, who, when appointed, is :
First. Under the age of majority.
Second. Convicted of an infamous crime.
Third. Adjudged by the court to be incompetent to execute the
duties of the trust by reason of drunkenness, improvidence, or want of
understanding or integrity.
Sec. 60. A married woman must not be appointed administratrix.
When an unmarried woman appointed administratrix marrie's, her
authority is extinguished.
Sec. 61. Petitions for letters of administration must be in writing,
signed by the applicant, or his attorney, and filed with the clerk of
the court, stating the facts, to give the court jurisdiction of the case,
and when known to the applicant, he must state the names, ages, and
residence of the heirs of the decedent, and the value and character of
the property. If the jurisdictional facts existed, but are not fully set
forth in the petition, and afterwards proved in the course of
administration, the decree or order of administration, and subsequent
proceedings, are not void for want of such jurisdictional averments.
Sec. 62. Letters of administration may be granted at a regular
term of court, or at a special term appointed by the judge for the hear
ing of the application.
Sec. 63. When a petittion praying for letters of administration is
filed, the clerk must give notice thereof by causing notices to be posted
in at least three public places in the county, one of which must be at
the place where the court is held, containing the name of the decedent,
the name of the applicant, and term of court at which the application
will be heard. Such notice must be given at least ten days before the
hearing.
Sec. 64. Any person interested may contest the petition by filing
written opposition thereto on the ground of incompetency of the appli
cant, or may assert his own right to the administration, and pray that
letters may be issued to himself. In the latter case the contestant
must file a petition and give the notice required for the original peti
tion, and the court must hear the two petitions together.
Sec. 65. On the hearing, it being first proved that notice has been
given as herein required, the court must hear the allegations and
proofs of the parties, and order the issuing of letters of administration
to the party best entitled thereto.
Sec. 66. An entry in the minutes of the court that the required
5>roof was made and notice given shall be conclusive evidence of the
act of such notice.
Sec. 67. Letters of administration must be granted to any appli
cant, though it appears that there are other persons having better rights
to the administration, when such person fail to appear and claim the
issuing of letters to himself.
Sec. 68. Before letters of administration are granted on the estate
of any person who is represented to have died intestate, the fact of his
dying intestate must be proved by the testimony of the applicant or
others; and the court may also examine any other person concerning
the time, place and manner of his death, the place of his residence at
the time, the value and character of his property, and whether or not
the decedent left a will, and may compel any person to attend as" a
witness for that purpose.
Sec. 69. Administration may be granted to any one or more com
petent persons, although not entitled to the same, at the written
request of the person entitled, filed in court.
Sec. 70., When letters of administration have been granted to any
Eerson other than the surviving husband or wife, child, father, mother,
rother, or sister of the intestate, any one of them may obtain the
revocation of the letters, and be entitled to the administration by pre
senting to the probate court a petition praying the revocation, and that
letters of administration may be issued to him.
Sec. 71. When such petition is filed, the clerk must, in addition to
the notice provided in section 57, issue a citation to the administrator
to appear and answer the same at the time appointed for the hearing.
Sec. 72. At the time appointed, the citation naving been duly served
and returned, the court must proceed to hear the allegations and proofs
of the parties ; and if the right of the applicant is established, and he is
competent, letters of administration must be granted to him, and the
letters of the former administrator revoked.
Sec. 78. The surviving husband or wife, when letters of adminis
tration have been granted to a child, father, brother, or sister of the
intestate, or any of such relatives, when letters have been granted to
any other of them, may assert his prior right, and obtain letters of
administration, and have the letters before granted revoked in the
manner prescribed in the three preceding sections.
Sec. 74. Before letters testamentary or of administration are issued
to the executor or administrator, he must take and subscribe an oath
before some officer authorized to administer oaths, that he will perform,
according to law, the duties of executor or administrator, which oath
must be attached to the letters.
All letters testamentary and of administration issued to, and all
bonds executed by, executors or administrators, with the affidavits and
certificates thereon, must be forthwith recorded by the clerk of the
court having jurisdiction of the estates in books to be kept by him in
his office for that purpose.
Sec. 75. Every person to whom letters testamentary or of admin
istration are directed to issue must, before receiving them, execute a
bond to the Territory of Montana, with two or more sufficient sureties,
to be approved by the probate judge. The, penalty must not be less
than twice the value of the personal property and twice the probable
value of the annual rents, profits and issues of the real property
belonging to the estate, which values must be ascertained by the
probate judge by examining, on oath, the party applying, and any
other persons.
Sec. 76. The probate judge must require an additional bond when
ever the sale of any real estate belonging to an estate is ordered by
him ; but no such additional bond must be required when it satisfac
torily appears to the court that the penalty of the bond given before
receiving letters, or of any bond given in place thereof, is equal to
twice the value of the personal property remaining in, or that will come
into, the possession of the executor or administrator, including the
annual rents, profits, and issues of real estate, and twice the probable
amount to be realized on the sale of the real estate to be sold.
Sec. 77. 'The bond must be conditioned that the executor or admin
istrator shall faithfully execute the duties of the trust according to law.
Sec. 78. When two or more persons are appointed executors or
administrators, the probate judge must require and take a separate
bond from each of them.
Sec. 79. The bond shall not be void upon the first recovery, but may
be sued and recovered upon from time to time, by any person
aggrieved in his own name, until the whole penalty is exhausted.
Sec. 80. In all cases where bonds or undertakings are required to
be given, under this title, the sureties must justify thereon, in the
same manner and in like amounts, as required in cases of appeal to
the supreme court in the civil practice act ; and the certificate thereof
must be attached to, and filed and recorded with, the bond or under
taking.
All such bonds and undertakings must be approved by the probate
judge, before being filed or recorded.
Sec. 81. Before any probate judge approves any bond required
under this title, and after its approval, he may, of his own motion, or
upon the motion of any person interested in the estate, supported by
affidavit that the sureties, or some one or more of them, are not worth
as much as they have justified to, order a citation to issue requiring
such sureties to appear before him, at a designated time and place, to
be examined touching their property and its value ; and the judge
must, at the same time, cause a notice to be issued to the executor or
administrator, requiring his appearance on the return of the citation ;
and on its return he may examine the sureties, and such witnesses as
may be produced, touching the property of the sureties and its value ;
and if, upon such examination, he is satisfied that the bond is insuffi
cient, he must require sufficient additional security.
Sec. 82. If sufficient security is not given within the time fixed by
the judge's order, the right of such executor or administrator to the
administration shall cease, and the person next entitled to the admin
istration on the estate, who will execute a sufficient bond, must be
appointed to the administration.
Sec. 83. When it is expressly provided in the will that no bond
shall be required of the executor, letters testamentary may issue, and
Bales of real estate be made and confirmed, without any bond, unless
the court, for good cause, require one to be executed ; but the executor
may at any time afterwards, if it appear from any cause necessary or
proper, be required to file a bond as in other cases.
Sec. 84. Any person interested in an estate may, by verified pefftion,
represent to the probate judge that the sureties of the executor
or administrator 'thereof have become or are becoming insolvent, or
that they have removed or are about to remove from the Territory, or,
from any other cause, that the bond is insufficient, and ask that further
security be required.
Sec. 85. If the probate judge is satisfied that the matter requires
investigation, a citation must be issued to the executor or administra
tor, requiring him to appear at a time and place to be therein specified,
to show cause why he should not give further security. The citation
must be served personally on the executor or administrator, at least
five days before the return day. If he has absconded, or cannot be
found, it may be served by leaving a copy of it at his place of residence,
or by such publication as the court or judge may order.
Sec. 86. On the return of the citation, or at such other time as the
judge may appoint, he must proceed to hear the proofs and allegations
of the parties. If it satisfactorily appears that the security is from
any cause insufficient, he may make an order requiring the executor
or administrator to give further security, or to file a new bond in the
usual form, within a reasonable time —not less than five days.
Sec. 87. K the executor or administrator neglects to comply with
the order within the time prescribed, the judge must, by order, revoke
his letters, and his authority must thereupon cease.
Sec. 88. When a petition is presented, praying that an executor or
administrator be required to give further security, or to give bond, if,
by the terms of the will no bond was originally required, and it is
alleged, on oath, that the executor or administrator is wasting the
property of the estate, the judge may, by order, suspend his powers
until the matter can be heard and determined.
Sec. 89. When it comes to his knowledge that the bond of any
executor or administrator is from any cause insufficient, the probate
judge, without any application, must cause him to be cited to appear
and show cause why he should not give further security ; and must
proceed thereon as upon the application of any person interested.
Sec. 90. Where a surety of any executor or administrator desires
to be released from responsibility on account of future acts, he may
make application to the probate court or judge for relief. The court
or judge must cause a citation to the executor or administrator to be
issued, and served personally, requiring him to appear at a time and
place to be therein specified, and to give other security ; if he has
absconded, left, or removed from the Territory, or if he cannot be found
after due diligence and inquiry, service may be made as provided in section 85.
Sec. 91. If new sureties be given to the satisfaction of the judge,
he may thereupon make an order that the sureties who applied for
relief shall not be liable on their bond for any subsequent act, default,
or misconduct of the executor or administrator.
Sec. 92. If the executor or administrator neglects or refuses to give
new sureties, to the satisfaction of the judge, on the return of the cita
tion, or within such reasonable time as the judge shall allow, unless
the surety making the application shall consent to a longer extension
of time, the court or judge, must, by order, revoke his letters.
Sec. 93. The applications authorized by the nine preceding sections
of this chapter may be heard and determined out of term time.
All orders made therein must be entered upon the minutes of the
court.
Sec. 94.
Sec.
95.
Sec. 9'..
Sec. 97.
Sec.
98.
Sec.
99.
Sec. 100.
Sec. 101.
ARTICLE VII.
SPECIAL ADMINISTRATORS AND THEIR POWERS AND DUTIES.
Liability of principal and surety.
In what cases special administrators appointed, and their
powers.
Order appointing and letters of.
Judge to prefer those entitled, but no appeal allowed.
Bond, oath, and letters of special administrator.
Duties, powers, and liability of special administrator.
When hi * powers and duties cease.
Must render an account on oath.
Sec. 94. The liability of principal and sureties upon the bond of
any executor, administrator, or guardian, is in all cases to pay in the
kind of money or currency in which the principal is legally liable.
Sec. 95. When there is delay in granting letters testamentary or of
administration, from any cause, or when such letters are granted irreg
ularly, or no sufficient bond is filed as required, or when no application
is made for such letters, or when an administrator or executor dies or
is suspended or removed, the probate judge must appoint a special
administrator to collect and take charge of the estate of the decedent,
in whatever county or counties the same may be found, and to exercise
such other powers as may be necessary for the preservation of the
estate, or he may direct the public administrator of his county to take
charge of the estate.
Sec. 96. The appointment may be made out of term time, and
without notice, and must be made by entry upon the minutes of the
court specifying the powers to be exercised by the administrator.
Upon such order being entered, and after the person appointed has
given bond, the clerk must issue letters of administration to such per
son in conformity with the order.
Sec. 97. In making the appointment of a special administrator, the
probate judge must give preference to the person entitled to letters
testamentary or of administration, but no appeal must be allowed from
the appointment.
Sec. 98. Before, any letters issue to any special administrator, he
must give bond in such sum as the probate judge may direct, with
sureties to the satisfaction of the judge, conditioned for the faithful
performance of his duties ; and he must take the usual oath, and have
the same endorsed on his letters.
Sec. 99. The special administrator must, collect and preserve for
the executor or administrator all the goods, chattels, debts, and effects
of the decedent, all incomes', rents, issues, and profits, claims and
demands of the estate ; must take the charge and management of,
enter upon and preserve from any damage, waste, and injury, the real
estate, and for any such and all necessary purposes, may commence
and maintain or defend suits and other legal proceedings, as an admin
istrator ; he may sell such perishable property as the probate court may
order to be sold, and exercise such other powers as are conferred upon
him by his appointment ; but in no case is he liable to an action by any
creditor on a claim against the decedent.
Sec. 100. When letters testamentary or of administration on the
estate of the decedent have been granted, the powers of the special
administrator cease, and he must forthwith deliver to the executor or
administrator all the property and effects of the decedent in his hands ;
and the executor or administrator may prosecute to final judgment any
suit commenced by the special administrator.
Sec. 101. The special administrator must render an account, on
oath, of his proceedings, in like manner as other administrators are
required to do.
Sec. 102. If, after granting letters of administration on the ground
of intestacy, a will of the decedent is duly proved and allowed by the
court, the letters of administration must be revoked, and the powers of
administrator shall cease, and he must render an account of his admin
istration within such time as the court shall direct.
Sec. 103. In such case, the executor, or the administrator with the
will annexed, is entitled to demand, sue for, recover and collect all the
rights, goods, chattels, debts, and effects of the decedent remaining
unadministered, and may prosecute to final judgment any suit com
menced by the administrator before the revocation of his letters of
administration.
Sec. 104. In case any one of the several executors or administrators,
to whom letters are granted, dies, becomes lunatic, is convicted of an
infamous crime, or otherwise becomes incapable of executing the trust,
or in case the letters testamentary or of administration are revoked or
annulled with respect to any one executor or administrator, the remain
ing executor or administrator must proceed to complete the execution
of the will or administration.
Sec. 105. If all such executors or administrators die or become
incapable, or the power and authority of all of them is revoked, the
probate court must issue letters of administration with the will annexed,
or otherwise, to the widow, or next of kin, or others, in the same order
and manner as is directed in relation to original letters of administra
tion. The administrators so appointed must give bond in the like
penalty, with like sureties and conditions, as hereinbefore required of
administrators, and shall have the like power and authority.
Sec. 106. Any executor or administrator may, at any time, by
writing filed in the probate court, resign his appointment, having first
settled his accounts, and delivered up all the estate to the person
whom the court shall appoint to receive the same. If, however, by
reason of any delay in such settlement tod delivering up of the estate,
or for any other cause, the circumstances of the estate, or the right of
those interested therein, require it, the court may, at any time before
settlement of accounts and delivering up of the estate is completed,
revoke the letters of such executor or administrator, and appoint in his
stead an administrator, either special or general, in the same manner
as is directed in relation to orignal letters of administration. The
liability of the outgoing executor or administrator, or of the sureties
on his bond, shall not be in any manner discharged, released, or
affected by such appointment or resignation.
Sec. 107. All acts of an executor or administrator, as such, before
the revocation of his letters testamentary, or of administration, are as
valid, to all intents and purposes, as if such executor or administrator
had continued lawfully to execute the duties of his trust. .
Sec. 108. A transcript from the minutes of the court, showing the
appointment of any person as executor or administrator, together with
the certificate of the clerk, under his hand and the seal of his court,
that such person has given bond and been qualified, and that letters
testamentary or of administration have been issued to him, and have
not been revoked, shall have the same effect in evidence as the letters
themselves.
Sec. 109. No probate court shall admit to probate any will, or grant
letters testamentary or of administration, in any case where the judge
thereof is interested as next of kin to the decedent, or as a legatee
or divisee under the will, or when he is named as executor or trustee in
the will, or as a witness thereto, or is in any other manner interested or
disqualified from acting.
Sec. 110. When a petition is filed in the probate court, praying for
admission to probate of a will, or for granting letters testamentary or
of administration, or when proceedings are pending in the probate court
for the settlement of an estate, and the presiding judge of the court is
disqualified to act from any cause, upon his own or the motion of any
person interested in the estate, he must make an order transferring the
proceeding to the probate court of an adjoining county, and the clerk
of the court ordering the transfer must transmit to the clerk of the court
to which the proceeding is ordered to be transferred, a certified copy
of the order, and all papers on file in his office in the proceeding ; and
thereafter the probate court to which the proceeding is transferred shall
exercise the same authority and jurisdiction over the estate, and all mat
ters relating to the administration thereof, as if it had original jurisdic
tion of the estate.
Sec. 111. The transfer of a proceeding from one court to another,
as provided for in the preceding section, shall not affect the right" of
any person to letters testamentary or of administration on the estate
transferred, but the same persons are entitled to letters testamentary
or of administration on the estate, in the order hereinbefore provided.
If, before the administration is closed of any estate so transferred as
herein provided, another person is elected or appointed and qualified as
probate judge of the county wherein such proceeding was orginally com
menced, who is not disqualified to act in the settlement of the estate,
and the causes for which the proceeding was transferred no longer exist,
any person interested in the estate may have the proceeding returned
to the court from which it was originally transferred, by filing a peti
tion setting forth these facts, and moving the court therefor.
Sec' 112. On hearing the motion, if the facts required by the pre
ceding section to be set out in the petition are satisfactorily shown, and
it further appears to the court that the convenience of parties interested
would be promoted by such change, the Judge must make an order
transferring the proceeding back to the probate court where it was
originally commenced ; and the clerk of the court ordering the transfer
mu3t transmit to the clerk of the court in which the proceeding was
originally commenced, a certified copy of the order, and all the original
papers on file in his office in the proceeding, and the court where the
proceeding was originally commenced shall thereafter have jurisdiction
and power to make all necessary orders and decrees to close up the
administration of the estate.
Sec. 113. Whenever the probate judge has reason to believe, from
his own knowledge or from credible information, that any executor or
administrator has wasted, embezzled, or mismanaged, or is about to
waste or embezzle, the property of the estate committed to his charge,
or has committed, or is about to commit, a fraud upon the estate, or is
incompetent to act, or has permanently removed from the Territory, or
has wrongfully neglected the estate, or has long neglected to perform
any act as such executor or administrator, he must, by an order entered
upon the minutes of the court, suspend the powers of such executor or
administrator until the matter is investigated.
Sec. 114. When such suspension is made, notice thereof must be
given to the executor or administrator, and he must be cited to appear
and show cause why his letters should not be revoked. If he fail to
appear in obedience to the citation, or, if appearing, the court is satis
fied that there exists cause for his removal, his letters must be revoked,
and letters of administration granted anew, as the case may require.
Sec. 115. At the hearing any person interested in the estate may
appear and file his allegations in writing, showing that the executor or
administrator should be removed, to which the executor or adminis
trator may demur or answer, as hereinbefore provided. The issues
raised must be heard and determined by the court.
Sec. 116. If the executor or administrator has absconded or con
ceals himself, or has removed or absented himself from the Territory,
notice may be given him of the pendency of the proceedings, by publi
cation, in such manner as the court may direct, and the court may
proceed upon such no Lice as if the citation had been personally
served.
Sec. 117. In the proceedings authorized by the preceding sections
of this article for the removal of an executor or administrator, the court
may compel his attendance by attachment, and may compel him to
answer questions, on oath, touching his administration, and upon his
refusal so to do, may commit him until he obey, or may revoke nis let
ters, or both.
Sec. 118. Every executor or administrator must make and return
to the court, at its first term after his appointment, a true inventory
and appraisement of all the estate of the decedent, including the home
stead, if any, which has come to his possession or knowledge.
Sec. 119. To make the appraisement, the probate judge or court
must appoint three disinterested persons (any two of whom may act),
who are entitled to receive a reasonable compensation for their servi
ces, not to exceed five dollars per day, to be allowed by the court or
judge. The appraisers must, with the inventory, file a verified account
of their services and disbursements. If only one day's services are
charged, the bill need not be sworn to.
If any part of the estate is in any other county than that in which
letters are issued, appraisers thereof may be appointed, either by the
probate judge having jurisdiction of the estate or Dy the probate judge
of such other county, on request of the judge having jurisdiction.
Sec. 120. Before proceeding to the execution of their duty, the
appraisers, before any officer authorized to administer oaths, must
take and subscribe an oath, to be attached to the inventory, that they
will truly, honestly, and impartially appraise the property which is
exhibited to them, according to the best of their knowledge and ability.
They must then proceed to estimate and appraise the property. Each article must be set down separately, with the value thereof in dollars
and cents, in figures, opposite the articles respectively. The inventory
must contain all the estate of the decedent, real and personal, a state
ment of all debts, partnerships, and other interests, bonds, mortgages,
notes, and other securities for Uhe payment of money belonging to the
decedent, specifying the name of the debtor in each security, the date,
the sum originally payable, the indorsements thereon (if any), with
their dates, and the sum which, in the judgment of the appraisers, may
be collected on each debt, interest, or security. The inventory must
show, so far as the same can be ascertained by the executor or the
administrator, what portion of the property is community property,
and what portion is the separate property of the decedent.
Sec. 121. The inventory must also contain an account of all moneys
belonging to the decedent which have come to the hands of the execu
tor or administrator ; and if none, the fact must be so stated in the
inventory. If the whole estate consists of money, there need not be an
appraisement, but an inventory must be made and returned as in other
cases.
Sec. 122. The naming of a person as executor does not thereby dis
charge him from any just claim which the testator has against him, but
the claim must be included in the inventory, and the executor is liable
for the same as for so much money in his hands when the debt or
demand becomes due.
Sec. 123. The discharge or bequest in a will of any debt or demand
of the testator against the executor named, or any other person, is not
valid against the creditors of the decedent, but is a specific bequest of
the debt or demand. It must be included in the inventory, and, if
necessary, applied in the payment of his debts ; if not necessary for
that purpose, it must be paid in the same manner and proportion as
other specific legacies.
Sec. 124. The inventory must be signed by the appraisers, and the
executor or administrator must take and subscribe an oath, before an
officer authorized to administer oaths, that the inventory contains a
true statement of all the estate of the decedent which has come to his
knowledge and possession, and particularly of all money belonging to
the decedent, and of all just claims of the decedent against the affiant.
The oath must be endorsed upon or annexed to the inventory.
Sec. 125. If an executqr or administrator neglects or refuses to
return the inventory within the time prescribed, or within such further
time, not exceeding two months, which the court or judge shall, for
reasonable cause, allow, the court may, upon notice, revoke the letters
testamentary or of administration, and the executor or administrator
is liable on his bond for any injury to the estate, or any person inter
ested therein, arising from such failure.
Sec. 126. Whenever property not mentioned in an inventory that is
made and filed comes to the possession or knowledge of an executor or
administrator, he must cause the same to be appraised in the manner
prescribed in this article, and an inventory thereof to be returned within
two months after the discovery ; and the making of such inventory may
be enforced, after notice, by attachment or removal from office.
Sec. 127. The executor or administrator is entitled to the possession
of all the real and personal estate of the decedent, and to receive the
rents and profits of the real estate, until* the estate is settled, or until
delivered over by order of the probate court to the heirs or devisees ;
and must keep in good tenantable repair all houses, buildings, and
fixtures thereon, which are under his control.
The heirs or devisees may themselves, or jointly with the executor or
administrator, maintain an action for the possession of the real estate,
or for the purpose of quieting the title, to the same, against any one
except the executor or administrator.
Sec. 128. Unless it satisfactorily appears to the probate court that
the rents, issues, and profits of the real estate for a longer period are
necessary to be received by the executor or administrator, wherewith
to pay the debts of the decedent, or that it will probably be necessary
to sell the real estate for the payment of such debts, at the end of ten
months from the first publication of the notice to creditors, the court
must direct the executor or administrator to deliver possession of all
the real estate to the heirs at law or devisees.
Sec. 129. If any person, before the granting of letters testamentary
or of administration, embezzles or alienates any of the moneys, goods,
chattels, or effects of a decedent, he is chargeable therewith, and liable
to an action by the executor or administrator of the estate for double the
value of the property so embezzled or alienated, to be recovered for the
benefit of the estate.
Sec. 130. If any executor, administrator, or other person inter
ested in the estate of a decedent, complains to the probate judge, on
oath, that any person is suspected to have concealed, embezzled,
smuggled, conveyed away, or disposed of any moneys, goods, or
chattels of the decedent, or has in his possession or knowledge any
deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts, or other writings, which contain
evidences of or tend to disclose the right, title, interest, or claim of the
decedent to any real or personal estate, or any claim or demand, or any
last will, the judge may cite such person to appear before the probate
court, and may examine him on oath upon the matter of such com
plaint. If such person is not in the county where letters have been
granted, he may be cited and examined, either before the probate court
of the county where he is found, or before the court issuing the citation.
But if, in the latter case, he appears, and is found innocent, his neces
sary expenses must be allowed him out of the estate.
Sec. 131. If the person so cited refuse to appear and submit to an
examination, or to answer such interrogatories as may be put to him,
touching the matter of the complaint, the court may, by warrant for
that purpose, commit him to the county jail, there to remain in close
custody until he submits to the order of the court, or is discharged
according to law. If, upon such examination, it appears that he has
concealed, embezzled, smuggled, conveyed away, or disposed of any
moneys, goods, or chattels of the decedent, or that he has in his pos
session or knowledge any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts, or
other writings, tending to disclose the right, title, interest or claim of
the decedent to any real or personal estate, claim, or demand, or any
last will of the decedent, the probate court may make an order requir
ing such person to disclose his knowledge thereof to the executor or
administrator, and may commit him to the county jail, there to remain
until the order is complied with, or he is discharged according to law.
And all such interrogatories and answers must be in writing, signed
by the party examined, and filed in the probate court.
The order for such disclosure made upon such examination is prima
facie evidence of the right of such administrator to such property, in
any action brought for the recovery thereof; and any judgment
recovered therein must be for double the value of the property as
assessed by the court or jury, or for return of the property, and dam
ages in addition thereto equal to the value of such property.
In addition to the examination of the party, witnesses may be pro
duced and examined on either side. u
Sec. 132. The probate judge, upon the complaint, on oath, of an
executor or administrator, may cite any person who has been entrusted
with any part of the estate of the decedent, to appear before such
court, and require him to render a full account, on oath, of any
moneys, goods, chattels, bonds, accounts, or other property or papers
belonging to the estate, which have come to his possession in trust for
the executor or administrator, and of his proceedings thereon ; and if
the person so cited refuses to appear and render such account, the court
may proceed against him as provided in the preceding section.
CHAPTEK V.
ARTICLE I.
OF THE PROVISIONS FOR THE SUPPORT OF THE FAMILY.
Sec. 133. Widow and children to remain in possession of homestead, c&c.
Sec. 134. Property set apart for surviving husband or wife, dec.
Sec. 135. Additional allowance to the family.
Sec. 136. Allowance to family preferred to other charges.
Sec. 137. Property set apart apportioned among members of family,
Sec. 138. Estate not exceeding in value fifteen hundred dollars goes to
widow and children; proceedings when it does not exceed
three thousand dollars.
Sec. 139. Disposition of property set [apart, when widow has other
means.
Sec. 133. When a person dies, leaving a widow or minor children,
the widow or children, until letters are granted and the inventory is.
returned, are entitled to remain in possession of the homestead, of all
the wearing apparel of the family, and ,of all the household furniture
of the decedent; and are also entitled to a reasonable provision for
their support, to be allowed by the probate judge.
Sec. 134. Upon the return of the inventory, or at any subsequent
time during the administration, the court or probate judge may, on his
own motion or on petition therefor, set apart for the use of the sur
viving husband or wife or the minor children of the decedent, all
property exempt from execution, including the homestead selected,
designated, and recorded. If none has been selected, designated, and
recorded, the judge of the court must select, designate, set apart; and
cause to be recorded a homestead, for the use of the persons hereinbe
fore named, in the manner provided in Article II of this chapter, out
of the real estate belonging to the decedent.
Sec. 135. If the amount set apart be insufficient for the support of
the widow and children, or either, the probate court or judge must
make such reasonable allowance out of the estate as shall be necessary
for the maintenance of the family, according to their circumstances,
during the progress of the settlement of the estate, which, in case of
an insolvent estate, must not be longer than one year after granting
letters testamentary or of administration.
Sec. 186. Any allowance made by the court or judge in accordance
with the provisions of this article, must be paid in preference to all
other charges, except funeral charges and expenses of administration ;
and any such allowance, whenever made, may, in the discretion of the
court or judge, take effect from the death of the decedent.
Sec. 187. When property is set apart for the use of the family, in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, if the decedent left a
widow or surviving husband and no minor child, such property is the
property of the widow or surviving husband. If the decedent left also
a minor child or children, the one-half of such property shall belong
to the widow or surviving husband, and the remainder to the child, or
in equal shares to the children, if there be more than one. If there ,
be no widow or surviving husband, the whole belongs to the minor
child or children.
Sec. 188. If, on the return of the inventory of the estate of an
intestate, it appears that the value of the whole estate does not exceed
the sum of fifteen hundred dollars, the probate court, by a decree for
that purpose, must assign for the use and support of the widow and
minor child or children, if there be a widow or minor child, and if no
widow, then for the children, if there are any, the whole of the estate,
after the payment of the expenses of his last illness, funeral charges,
and expenses of the administration, and there must be no further pro
ceedings in the administration, unless further estate be discovered ;
and when it so appears that the value of the whole estate does not
exceed the sum of three thousand dollars, it is in the discretion of the
probate court to dispense with the regular proceedings, or any part
thereof, prescribed in this Title, and there must be had a summary
administration of the estate, and an order of distribution thereof at
the end of six months after the issuing of letters. The notice to cred
itors must be given to present their claims within four months after
the first publication of such notice, and those not so presented are
barred as in other cases.
Sec. 189. If the widow has a maintenance derived from her own
property, equal to the portion set apart to her by the preceding sec
tions of this article, the whole property so set apart, other than her
half of the homestead, must go to the minor children.
AETICLE II.
OF THE HOMESTEAD.
Sec. 140. In whom vested on death of husband or wife; not subject to
debts.
Sec. 141. Liens on homestead; how satisfied.
Sec. 142. Proceedings when homestead exceeds $2,500.
Sec. 143. Majority and minority reports of appraisers.
Sec. 144. Hearing of report and notice thereof; new appraisers.
Sec. 145. Costs; Purchasers succeed to rights of their predecessors.
Sec. 146. Certified copies of final orders to be recorded.
Sec. 140. If the homestead selected by the husband and wife, or
either of them, during then- coverture, and recorded while both were
living, was selected, it vests, on the death of the husband or wife, abso
lutely in the survivor. If the homestead was selected from the sepa
rate property of either husband or wife, it vests, on the death of the
person from whose property it was selected, in his or her heirs, subject
to the power of the probate court to assign it for a limited period to the
family of the decedent. In either case it is not subject to the payment
of any debt or liability contracted by or existing against the husband
and wife, or either of them, previous to or at the time of the death of
such husband or wife, except as provided in the civil code.
Sec. 141. If the homestead, selected and recorded prior to the death
of the decedent, be returned in the inventory appraised at not exceed
ing two thousand five hundred dollars in value, or was previously
appraised as provided in the civil code, and such appraised value did
not exceed that sum, the probate court must, by order, set it off to the
persons in whom title is vested by the preceding section. If there be
subsisting liens or incumbrances on the homestead, the claims secured
thereby must be presented and allowed as other claims against the
estate. If the funds of the estate be adequate to pay all claims allowed
against the estate, the claims so secured must be paid out of such
funds ; if the funds of the estate be not sufficient for that purpose, the
claims so secured shall be paid proportionally with other claims
allowed, and the liens or incumbrances on the homestead shall only be
enforced against the homestead for any deficiency remaining after
such payment.
Sec. 142. If the homestead, as selected and recorded be returned
in the inventory appraised at more than two thousand five hundred
dollars, the appraisers must, before they make their return, ascertain
and appraise the value of the homestead at the time the same was
selected, and if such value exceed two thousand five hundred dollars,
or if the homestead was appraised as provided in the civil code, and
such appraised value exceeded that sum, the appraisers must determine
whether the premises can be divided without any material injury, and
if they find that they can be thus divided, they must admeasure and
set apart to the parties entitled thereto such portion of the premises,
including the dwelling house, as will amount in value to the sum of
two thousand five hundred dollars, and make report thereof, giving the
metes, bounds, and full description of the portion set apart as a home
stead. If the appraisers find that the premises exceeded in value, at
the time of their selection, the sum of two thousand five .hundred
dollars, and that they cannot be divided without material injury, they
must report such finding, and thereafter the court may make an order
for the sale of the premises and the distribution of the proceeds to the
parties entitled thereto.
Sec. 148. Any two of the appraisers concurring may discharge the
duties imposed upon the three, and make the report. A dissenting
report may be made by the third appraiser. The report must state
fully the acts of the appraisers. Both reports may be heard and con
sidered by the court in determining a confirmation or rejection of the
majority report, but the minority report must in no case be confirmed.
Sec. 144. When the report of the appraisers is filed the court must
set a day for hearing any objections thereto from any one interested in
the estate. Notice of the hearing must be given for such time and in
such manner as the court may direct. If the court be satisfied that
the report is correct, it must be confirmed, otherwise rejected. In
case the report is rejected, the court may appoint new appraisers to
examine and report upon the homestead, and similar proceedings may
be had for the confirmation or rejection of their report as upon the first
report.
Sec. 145. The costs of all proceedings in the probate court provided
for in this chapter, must be paid by the estate, as expenses of admin
istration. Persons succeeding, by purchase or otherwise, to the
interests, rights, and title of successors to homesteads, or to the
right to have homesteads set apart to them, as in this chapter
provided, have all the rights and benefits conferred by law on the per
sons whose interests and rights they acquire.
Sec. 146. A certified copy of every final order made in pursuance
of this article, by which a report is confirmed, property assigned, or
sale confirmed, must be recorded in the office of the recorded of the
county where the homestead property is situated.
CHAPTEE VI.
ARTICLE I.
OF CLAIMS AGAINST THE ESTATE.
Sec. 147. Notice to creditors must be published.
Sec. 148. Time expressed in the notice.
Sec. 149. Affidavit and decree of due publication and posting.
Sec. 150. In what time claims must be presented or be barred.
Sec. 151. Affidavit and proof of claim. ■
Sec. 152. Proceedings when Hie judge presents a claim.
Sec. 153. When claim is presented how allowed and endorsed.
Sec. 154. Claim allowed and proved must be filed, and must be accom
panied by copy of instrument on which it is founded.
Sec. 155. Limitation of action on rejected claim.
Sec. 156. No claim allowed when barred; judge may examine claimant
on oath.
Sec. 157. No action can be maintained until after presentation.
Sec. 158. Time not included in time limited.
Sec. 159. Claim in pending action must be presented.
Sec. 160. Judge may allow part of claim.
Sec. 161. Effect of judgment against administrator.
Sec. 162. Of judgment, execution, and redemption.
Sec. 163. Judgment no lien on real estate.
Sec. 164. By agreement claim may be referred to a disinterested party.
Sec. 165. Proceedings and report of such referee; new referee.
Sec. 166. Liability of executor or administrator for costs.
Sec. 167. Proceedings on claim of executor or administrator.
Sec. 168. If executor or administrator neglects to give notice to creditors.
Sec. 169. List of clai?ns against the estate.
Sec. 170. Interest on interest-bearing claims may be paid.
Sec. 147. Every executor or administrator must, immediately after
his appointment, cause to be published in some newspaper of the
county, if there be one (if not, then in such newspaper as may be des
ignated by the court), a notice to the creditors of the deceased, requir
ing all persons having claims against him to exhibit them, with the
necessary vouchers, to the executor or administrator, at the place of
his residence or business, to be specified in the notice. Such notice
must be published as often as the judge or court shall direct, but not
less than once a week for four successive weeks ; the court or judge
may also direct additional notice by publication or posting. In case
such executor or administrator resign or is removed before the time
expressed in the notice, his successor must give notice for only the
unexpired time allowed for such presentation.
Sec. 148. The time expressed in the notice must be ten months
after its first publication when the estate exceeds in value the sum of
ten thousand dollars, and four months when it does not.
Sec. 149. After notice is given as required by the preceding section,
a copy thereof, with the affidavit of due publication, or of publication
and posting, must be filed ; and upon such affidavit or other testimony
to the satisfaction of the court, an order or decree showing that due
notice to the creditors has been given, and directing that such order or
decree be entered in the minutes and recorded, must be made by the
court.
Sec. 150. If a claim arising upon a contract heretofore made be no
presented within the time limited in the notice, it is barred forever,
except as follows : If it be not then due, or if it be contingent, it may
be presented within one month after it becomes due or absolute ; if it
be made to appear by the affidavit of the claimant, to the satisfactis*
faction of the executor or administrator and the probate judge, that
the claimant had no notice, as provided in this chapter, by reason of
being out of the Territory, it may be presented any time before a decree
of distribution is entered. A claim for a deficiency remaining unpaid
after a sale of property of the estate mortgaged or pledged must be
presented within one month after such deficiency is ascertained. All
claims arising upon contracts hereafter made, whether the same be due,
not due, or contingent, must be presented within the time limited in the
notice ; and any claim not so presented is barred forever : Provided,
however, That when it is made to appear by the affidavit of the claim
ant, to the satisfaction of the executor or administrator and the pro
bate judge, that the claimant had no notice, Tas provided in this chap
ter, by reason of being out of the Territory, it may be presented at any
time before a decree of distribution is entered.
Sec. 151. Every claim which is due when presented to the adminis
trator must be supported by the affidavit of the claimant, or some one
in his behalf, and that the amount is justly due, that no payments
have been made thereon which are not credited, and that there are no
set-offs to the same to the knowledge of the claimant or affiant. If the
claim be not due when presented, or be contingent, the particulars of
such claim must be stated. When the affidavit is made by a person
other than the claimant, he must set forth in the affidavit the reasons
why it is not made by the claimant. The oath may be taken before
any officer authorized to administer oaths. The executor or adminis
trator may also require satisfactory vouchers or proofs to be produced
in support of the claim. If the estate be insolvent, no greater rate of
interest shall be allowed upon any claim after the first publication of
notice to creditors than is allowed on judgments obtained in the dis
trict court.
Sec. 152. Any probate judge may present a claim against the estate
of a decedent for allowance, to the executor or administrator thereof ;
and if the executor or administrator allows the claim, he must, in writ
ing, designate some probate judge of an adjoining county, who, upon
the presentation of such claim to him, is vested with the same power
to allow or reject it as he would have if the will had been proved or
administration granted in his own county ; and the probate judge pre
senting such claim, in case of its rejection by the executor or adminis
trator, or by such probate judge as shall have acted upon it, has the
same right to sue m a proper court for its recovery as other persons
have when their claims against an estate are rejected.
Sec. 153. When a claim, accompanied by the affidavit required in
this chapter, is presented to the executor or administrator, he must
endorse thereon nis allowance or rejection, with the day and date
thereof. If he allows the claim, it must be presented to the probate
judge for his approval, who must, in the same manner, endorse upon
it his allowance or rejection. If the executor or administrator or the
judge refuse or neglect to endorse such allowance or rejection for ten
days after the claim has been presented to him, such refusal or neglect
is equivalent to a rejection on the tenth day ; and if the presentation
be made by a notary, the certificate of such notary, under seal, is prima
faciei evidence of such presentation and rejection. If the claim be pre
sented to the executor or administrator before the expiration of the
time limited for the presentation of claims, the same is presented in
time, though acted upon by the executor or administrator and by the
judge after the expiration of such time. If the claim be payable in a
particular kind of money or currency, it shall, if allowed, be payable
only in such money or currency.
Sec. 154. Every claim allowed by the executor or administrator and
approved by the probate judge, or a copy thereof, as hereinafter provi
ded, must, within thirty days thereafter, be filed in the probate court,
and be ranked amongthe acknowledged debts of the estate, to be paid in
due course of administration. If the claim is founded on a bond, bill,
note, or any other instrument, a copy of such instrument must accomSany
the claim, and the original instrument must be exhibited if
emanded, onless it is lost or destroyed, in which case the claimant
must accompany his claim by his affidavit, containing a copy or par
ticular description of such instrument, and stating its loss or destruction.
If the claim or any part thereof is secured by a mortgage or other lien,
which has been recorded in the office of the recorder of the county in
which the land affected by it lies^ in which case it is sufficient to des
cribe the mortgage or lien and refer to the date, volume, and page of its
record.
If in any case the claimant has left any original voucher in the hands
of the executor or administrator, or suffered the same to be filed in
court, he may withdraw the same when a copy thereof has been already
or is then attached to his claim. A brief description of the claim filed
must be entered by the clerk in the register, showing the name of the
claimant, the amount and character of the claim, rate of interest and
date of allowance.
Sec. 155. When a claim is rejected, either by the executor or
administrator or the probate judge, the holder must bring suit in the
proper court against the executor or administrator, within three months
after date of its rejection, if it be then due, or within two months after
it becomes due, otherwise the claim is forever barred.
Sec. 156. No claim must be allowed by the executor or administra
tor, or by the probate judge, which is barred by the statute of limita
tions. When a claim is presented to the probate judge for his allow
ance, he may, in his discretion, examine the claimant and others, on
oath, and hear any other legal evidence touching the validity of the
claim.
Sec. 157. No holder of any claim against an estate shall maintain
any action thereon, unless the claim is first presented to the executor
or administrator.
Sec. 158. The time during which there shall be a vacancy in the
administration must not be included in any limitations herein pre
scribed.
Sec. 159. If an action is pending against the decedent at the time
of his death, the plaintiff must in like manner present his claim to the
executor or administrator, for allowance or rejection, authenticated as
required in other cases ; and no recovery shall be had in the action
unless proof be made of the presentation required.
Sec. 160. Whenever any claim is presented to an executor or
administrator, or to the probate judge, and he is willing to allow the
same in part, he must state in his endorsement the amount he is will
ing to allow. If the creditor refuse to accept the amount allowed in
satisfaction of his claim, he shall recover no costs in any action
therefor brought against the executor or administrator, unless he
recovers a greater amount than that offered to be allowed.
Sec. 161. A judgment rendered against an executor or administra
tor upon any claim for money against the estate of his testator or
intestate, only establishes the claim in the same manner as if it had
been allowed by the executor or administrator and the probate judge,
and the judgment must be that the execiitor or administrator pay in
due course of administration the amount ascertained to be due. A
certified transcript of the judgment must be filed in the probate court.
No execution must issue upon such judgment, nor shall it create any
lien upon the property of the estate or give to the judgment creditor
any priority of payment.
Sec. 162. When judgment has been rendered for or against the tes
tator (or) intestate in his lifetime, no execution shall issue thereon
after his death, except as provided in section 306 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. A judgment against the decedent for the recovery of
money must be presented to the executor or administrator, like any
other claim. If execution is actually levied upon any property of the
decedent before his death, the same may be sold for the satisfaction
thereof ; and the officer making the sale must account to the executor
or administrator for any surplus in his hands. A judgment creditor
having a judgment which was rendered against the testator or intestate
in his lifetime, may redeem any real estate of the decedent from any
sale under foreclosure or execution, in like manner and with like effect
as if the judgment debtor were still living.
Sec. 163. A judgment rendered against a decedent, dying after a
verdict or decision on an issue of fact, but before judgment is rendered
thereon, is not a lien on the real property of the decedent, but is paya
ble in due course of administration.
Sec. 164. If the executor or administrator doubts the correctness
of any claim presented to him, he may enter into an agreement, in
writing, with the claimant, to refer the matter in controversy to some
disinterested person, to be approved by the probate judge ; upon filing
the agreement and approval of the probate judge in the office of the
clerk of the district court for the county in which the letters testamen
tary or of administration were granted, the clerk must, either in
vacation or in term, enter a minute of the order referring the matter
in controversy to the person so selected ; or, if the parties consent, a
reference may be had to the probate court, and the report of the
referee, if confirmed, establishes or rejects the claim the same as if it
had been allowed or rejected by the executor or administrator and the
probate judge.
Sec. 165. The referee must hear and determine the matter and
make his report thereon to the court in which his appointment is
entered. The same proceedings shall' be had in all respects, and the
referee shall have the same powers, be entitled to the same compensa
tion, and subject to the same control, as in other cases of reference.
The court may remove the referee, appoint another in his place, set
aside or confirm his report, and adjudge costs, as in actions against
executors or administrators, and the judgment of tha court thereon
shall be as valid and effectual in all respects as if the same had been
rendered in a suit commenced by ordinary process.
Sec. 166. When a judgment is recovered with costs against any
executor or administrator, he shall be individually liable for such costs ;
but they must be allowed him in his administration accounts, unless it
appears that the suit or proceeding in which the costs were taxed was
prosecuted or defended without just cause.
Sec. 167. If the executor or administrator is a creditor of the dece
dent, his claim, duly authenticated by affidavits, must be presented for
allowance or rejection to the probate judge, and its allowance by the
judge is sufficient evidence of its correctness, and it must be paid as
other claims, in due course of administration. If, however, the probate
judge rejects the claim, action thereon may be had against the estate
by the claimant, and summons must be served upon the probate judge,
who may appoint an attorney at the expense of the estate to defend the
action. If the claimant recovers no judgment, he must pay all costs,
including defendant's fees.
Sec. 168. If any executor or administrator neglects for two months
after his appointment to give notice to creditors, as prescribed by this chapter, the court must revoke his letters, and appoint some other per
son in his stead, equally or the next in order entitled to the appoint
ment.
Sec. 169. At the same term at which he is required to return his
inventory, the executor or administrator must also return a statement
of all claims against the estate which have been presented to him, if so
required by the court ; and from term to term thereafter he must pre
sent a statement of claims subsequently presented to him. In all such
statements he must designate the names of the creditors, the nature of
each claim, when it became due, or will become due, and whether it
was allowed or rejected'by him.
Sec. 170. If there be any debt of the decedent bearing interest,
whether presented or not, the executor or administrator may, by order
of the court, pay the amount then accumulated and unpaid, or any
part thereof, at any time when there are sufficient funds properly appli
cable thereto, whether said claim be then due or not ; and interest shall
thereupon cease to accrue upon the amount so paid. This section
does not apply to existing debts, unless the creditor consent to accept
the amount.
CHAPTER VII.
ARTICLE I.
SALES IN GENERAL.
Sec. 171. Property of deceased liable for debts.
Sec. 172. Proceedings when money is borrowed for estate.
Sec. 173. Salop of property; order of court.
Sec. 174. Petition for order of sale.
Sec. 175. When estate insolvent or just sufficient to pay all claims,'only
one sale made.
Sec. 171. All the property of a decedent shall be chargeable with
the payment of the debts of the deceased, the expenses of administra
tion, and the allowance to the family, except as otherwise provided in
this code and in the civil code. And the said property, personal and
real, may be sold as the court may direct, in the manner prescribed in
this chapter. There shall be no priority as between personal and real
property for the above purposes.
Sec. 172. In all cases the executor or administrator of an estate,
instead of selling the property of the estate to pay the charges and
domands against the same, may borrow money at the lowest rate of
interest at which it may be had, and for such length of time the court
may allow, to pay such claims, when it shall be made to appear to the
court, by petition and evidence, that an immediate sale of the property
of the estate will be detrimental to the heirs, devisees, legatees, or
other persons having an interest therein ; and in such case the estate
shall be chargeable with the payment of such sum so borrowed and
interest thereon. Such petition may be made by the executor or
administrator, or by any one of the heirs of the deceased, or other per
son interested in the estate. Notice shall be given as "follows: If by
the executor or administrator, to all the heirs, devisees, legatees resid
ing in the territory; and if by any heir, devisee, or legatee, to the
administrator or executor, and to all other heirs, devisees and legatees
residing in the Territory, which notice shall be given as notice to
creditors by an executor or administrator is required by the provisions
of this act. ■»
Sec. 178. No sale of any property of an estate of a decedent is valid
unless made under order of the probate court, except as otherwise pro
vided in this chapter. All sales must be reported under oath, and con
firmed by the probate court, before the title to the property sold
passes.
Sec. 174. All petitions for orders of sale must be in writing, setting
forth the facts showing the sale to be necessary, and, upon the hearing,
any person interested in the estate may file his written objections, which
must be heard and determined. A failure to set forth the facts show
ing the sale to be necessary will not invalidate the subsequent proceed
ings, if the defect be supplied by the proofs at the hearing, and the
general facts showing the necessity be stated in the order directing the
sale.
Sec. 175. When it appears to the court that the estate is. insolvent,
or that it will require a sale of all the property of the estate of every
character, to pay the family allowance, expenses of administration, and
debts, there need be but one petition filed, but one order of sale made,
and but one sale had, except in the case of perishable property, which
may be sold as provided in section 176. The probate court, when a
petition for the sale of any property for any of the purposes herein
named is presented, must inquire fully into the probable amount
required to make all such payments, and if there be no more estate
than sufficient to pay the same, may require but one proceeding for the
sale of the entire estate. In such case the petition must set forth sub
stantially the facts required by section 187.
ARTICLE II.
SALES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Sec. 176. Sale of perishable and other property to pay family allowance.
Sec. 177. Sale of part or whole of personal property.
Sec. 178. Interests in partnership and pledged property and choses in
action may be sold.
Sec. 179. When property must be sold and the order in which sold.
Sec. 180. Public sale; real property sold in certain cases.
Sec. 176. At any time after receiving letters the executor, adminis
trator, or special administrator may apply to the court or judge, and
obtain an order to sell perishable and other personal property likely to
depreciate in value, or which will incur loss or expense by being kept,
and so much other personal property as may be necessary to pay the
allowance made to the family-of the decedent. The order for the sale
may be made without notice, but the executor, administrator, or special
administrator is responsible for the property, unless, after making a
sworn return and on a proper showing, the court shall approve the
sale.
Sec. 177. If claims against the estate have been allowed and a sale
of property is necessary for their payment, or the expenses of adminis
tration, or for the payment of legacies, the executor or administrator
may apply for an order to sell so much of the personal property as may
be necessary therefor. Upon filing his petition, notice of at least five
days must be given of the hearing of the application, either by posting
notices or by advertising. He may also make a similar application,
either in vacation or term, from time to time, so long as any personal
property remains in his hands and sale thereof is necessary. If it
appear for the best interest of the estate, he may, at any time after
filing the inventory, in like manner, and after giving like notice, apply
for and obtain an order to sell the whole of .the personal property
belonging to the estate, whether necessary to pay debts or not.
Sec. 178. Partnership interest, or interests belonging to any estate
by virtue of any partnership formerly existing, interests in personal
property pledged, and choses in action, may be sold in the same man
ner as other personal property, when it appears to be for the best inter
est of the estate. Before confirming the sale of any partnership
interest, whether made to the surviving partner or to any other person,
the court or judge must carefully inquire into the condition of the
partnership affairs, and must examine the surviving partner, if in the
county and able to be present in court.
Sec. 179. If it appears that a sale is necessary for the payment of
debts or the family allowance, or for the best interest of the estate and
the persons interested in the property to be sold, whether it is or is not
necessary to pay the debts or family allowance, the court or judge must
order it to be made. In making orders and sales for the payment of
debts or family allowance, such articles as are not necessary for the
support and subsistence of the family of the decedent, or are not espe
cially bequeathed, must be first sold, and the court or judge must so
direct.
Sec. 180. The sale of personal property must be made at public
auction, for such money or currency as the court may direct, and after
public notice given for at least ten days, by notices posted in three
public places in the county, or by publication in a newspaper, or both,
containing the time and place of sale, and a brief description of the
property to be sold, unless, for good reasons shown, the probate court
or judge orders a private sale or a shorter notice. Public sales of such
property must be made at the court house door, or at the residence of
the decedent, or at some other public place, but no sale shall be made
of any personal property which is not present at the time of sale, unless
the court otherwise order. When a sale of property of the estate is
necessary to pay the allowance of the family, or the debts outstanding
against the decedent, or the debts, expenses, or charges of administra
tion, or legacies, the executor or administrator may also sell any real
as well as personal property of the estate, for that purpose, upon the
order of the probate court ; and an application for the sale of real
property may also embrace the sale of personal property.
Sec. 181. When it appears from the inventory of the estate of any
decedent that his estate consists, in whole or in part, of mines or inter
ests in mines, or of shares, interests, or stocks in a mining corporation,
such mines, interests, stocks, or shares may be sold under the order of
the probate court having jurisdiction of the estate, as hereinafter
provided.
Sec. 182. The executor, administrator, or any heir at law or creditor
of the estate, any partner or member of any mining company in which
interests or shares are held or owned by the estate, may file in the
probate court a petition, in writing, setting forth the general facts of
the estate being then in due course of administration, and particularly
describing the mine, interest, or shares, which it is desired to sell, and
particularly the condition and situation of the mines or mining inter
ests, or of the mining company or corporation in which such interests
or shares are held, and the grounds upon which the sale is asked to be
made.
Sec. 183. Upon the presentation of such petition the probate judge
must make an order directing all persons interested to appear before
him at a time and place specified, not less than four nor more than ten
weeks from the time of making such order, to show cause why an order
should not be granted to the executor or administrator to sell such
mines, mining interests, shares, or stocks, as are set forth in the peti
tion and belonging to the estate. A copy of the order to show cause
must be personally served on all persons interested in the estate at
least ten days before the time appointed for hearing the petition, or
published atjeast four successive weeks in such newspaper as the court
shall specify. If all persons interested in the estate signify in writing
their assent to such sale, the notice may be dispensed with.
Sec. 184. If, upon hearing the petition, it appears to the satisfac
tion of the probate judge that it is to the interest of the estate that
such mining property or interests of the estate should be sold ; or if it
appears to his satisfaction that an immediate sale is necessary in order
to secure the just rights or interests of the mining partners or tenants
in common, in which such shares, stocks, or property are held, such
probate judge must make an order authorizing the executor or adminis
trator to sell such mining interests, mines, or shares, as hereinafter
provided.
Sec. 185. After the order of sale is made, all further proceedings
for the sale of such mining property, and for the notice, report, and
confirmation thereof, must be in conformity with the provisions of Article IV of this chapter.
Sec. 186. When the personal estate in the hands of the executor or
administrator is exhausted, or insufficient to pay the allowance of the
family, the debts outstanding against the decedent, and the debts,
expenses, and charges of administration, the executor or administrator
may sell the real estate for that purpose, upon the order of the probate
court.
Sec. 187. To obtain an order for the sale of real property, he must
Eresent a verified petition to the probate court, or to the judge at cham-
ers, setting forth the amount of personal property that has come to
his hands, and how much thereof, if any, remains undisposed of ; the
debts outstanding against the decedent, as far as can be ascertained or
estimated ; the amount due upon the family allowance, or that will be
due after the same has been in force for one year ; the debts, expenses,
and charges of administration already accrued, and an estimate of what
will or may accrue during the administration ; a general discription of
all the real property of which the decedent died seized, or in which he
had any interest, or in which the estate has acquired any interest, and
the condition and value thereof, and whether the same be community
or separate property ; the names of the legatees and devisees, if any,
and of the heirs of the decedent, so far as known to the petitioner. If
any of the matters here enumerated cannot be ascertained, it must be
so stated in the petition ; but a failure to set forth the facts showing
the sale to be necessary will not invalidate the subsequent proceedings,
if the defect be supplied by the proofs at the hearing, and the general
facts showing such necessity be stated in the decree.
Sec. 188. If it appear to the court or judge from such petition that
it is necessary to sell the whole or some portion of the real estate for
the purposes and reasons mentioned in the preceding section, or any of
them, such petition must be filed, and an order thereupon made direct
ing all persons interested in the estate to appear before the court, at a
time and place specified, not less than four nor more than ten weeks
from the time of making such order, to show cause why an order should
not be granted to the executor or administrator to sell so much of the
real estate of the decedent as is necessary.
Sec. 189. A copy of the order to show cause must be personally
served on all persons interested in the estate, any general guardian of
a minor so interested, and any legatee, or devisee, or heir of the dece
dent, provided they are residents of the county, at least ten days before
the time appointed for hearing the petition, or be published four succes
sive weeks in such newspaper in the county as the court or judge shall
direct. If all persons interested in the estate join in the petition for
the sale, or signify in writing their assent thereto, the notice may be
dispensed with, and the hearing may be had at any time.
Sec. 190. The probate court, at the time and place appointed in
such order, or at such other time to which the hearing may be post
poned, upon satisfactory proof of personal service or publication of a
copy of the order, by affidavit or otherwise, if the consent, in writing,
to such sale, of all parties interested is not filed, must proceed to hear
the petition, and hear and examine the allegations and proofs of the
petitioners, and of all persons interested in the estate who may oppose
the application. All claims against the decedent not before presented,
if the period of presentation has not elapsed, may be presented and
passed upon at the hearing.
Sec. 191. The executor, administrator, and witnesses may be
examined on oath by either party, and process to compel them to
attend and testify may be issued by the probate judge, in the same
manner and with like effect as in other cases.
Sec. 192. If it appears necessary to sell a part of the real estate,
and that by a sale thereof the residue of the estate, real or personal,
or some specific part thereof, would be greatly injured, or diminished
in value, or subjected to expense, or rendered unprofitable, or that
after any such sale the residue would be so small in quantity or value,
or would be of such a character with reference to its future disposition
among the heirs or devisees, as clearly to render it for the best interest
of all concerned that the same should be sold, the court may authorize
the sale of the whole estate or any part thereof necessary and for the
best interests of all concerned.
Sec. 193. If the court is satisfied, after a full hearing upon the
petition and an examination of the proofs and allegations of the parties
interested, that a sale of the whole or some portion of the real estate
is necessary for any of the causes mentioned in this article, or if such
sale be assented to by all the persons interested, an order must be
made to sell the whole, or so much and such parts of the real estate
described in the petition as the court shall judge necessary or benefi
cial.
Sec. 194. The order of sale must describe the lands to be sold and
the terms of sale, which may be for cash or on a credit not exceeding
one year, payable in gross or installments, and in such kind of money,
with interest, as the court may direct. The land may be sold in one
parcel or in subdivisions, as the executor or administrator shall judge
most beneficial to the estate, unless the court otherwise specially
directs. If it appears that any of such real estate has been devised
and not charged in such devise with the payment of debts or legacies,
the court must order the remainder to be sold before that so devised.
Every such sale must be ordered to be made at public auction, unless
in the opinion of the court it would benefit the estate to sell the whole
or some part of such real estate at private sale. The court may, if the
same is asked for in the petition, order or direct such real estate, or
any part thereof, to be sold at either public or private sale, as the
executor or administrator shall judge to be most beneficial for the
estate.
If the executor or administrator neglects or refuses to make a sale
under the order and as directed therein, he may be compelled to sell,
by order of the court, made on motion, after due notice, by any party
interested.
Sec. 195. If the executor or administrator neglects to apply for an
order of sale when it is necessary, any person may make application
therefor, in the same manner as the executor or administrator, and
notice thereof must be given to the executor or administrator before
the hearing. The petition of such applicant must contain as many of
the matters in section 179 as he can ascertain, and the decree of the
sale must fix the period of time within which the executor or adminis
trator must make the sale.
Sec. 196. When a sale is ordered, and is to be made at public
auction, notice of the time and place of sale must be posted up in three
of the most public places in the county in which the land is situated,
and published in a newspaper, if there be one printed in the same
county, but if none, then in such paper as the court may direct, for
three weeks successively next before the sale ; the lands and tenements
to be sold must be described with common certainty in the notice.
Sec. 197. Sales at public auction must be made in the county
where the land is situated, but when the land is situated in two or
more counties it may be sold in either. The sale must be made
between the hours of nine o'clock in the morning and the setting of
the sun on the same day, and must be made on the day named in
notice of sale, unless the same is postponed.
Sec. 198. When a sale of real estate is ordered to be made at pri
vate sale, notice of the same must be posted up in three of the most
Eublic places in the county in which the land is situated, and pub-
shed in a newspaper, if there be one printed in the same county,
if none, then in such paper as the court may direct, for two weeks
successively next before the day on or after which the sale is to be
made, in which the lands and tenements to be sold must be described
with common certainty. The notice must state a day on or after
which the sale will be made, and a place where offers or bids will be
received. The day last referred to must be at least fifteen days from
the first publication of notice, and the sale must not be made before
that day, but must be made within six months thereafter. The bids
or offers must be in writing, and may be left at the place designated in
the notice, or delivered to the executor or administrator personally, or
may be filed in the office of the clerk of the probate court, to which
the return of sale must be made, at any time after the first publication
of the notice and before the making of the sale.
If it is shown that it will be for the best interest of the estate, the
court or judge may, by an order, shorten the time of notice, which
shall not, however, be less than one week, and may provide that the
sale may be made on or after a day less than fifteen but not less than
eight days from the first publication of the notice of sale, and the sale
may be made to correspond with such order.
Sec. 199. No sale of real estate at private sale shall be confirmed
by the court unless the sum offered is at least ninety per cent, of the
appraised value thereof, nor unless such real estate has been appraised
within one year of the time of such sale. If it has not been so appraised,
or if the court is satisfied that the appraisement is too high or too low,
appraisers must be appointed, and they must make an appraisement
thereof in the same manner as in the case of an original appraisement
of an estate. This may be done at any time before the sale or con
firmation thereof.
Sec. 200. The executor or administrator must, when the sale is
made upon a credit, take the notes of the purchaser for the purchase
money, with a mortgage on the property to secure their payment.
Sec. 201. The executor or admmistrator, after making any sale of
real estate, must make a return of his proceedings to the probate court,
which must be filed in the office of the clerk at any time subsequent to
the sale, either in term or vacation. If the sale is made at public
auction and the return made and filed on or before the first day of the
next term thereafter, no notice is required of such return, or of the
hearing thereof, but the hearing may be had upon the first day of the
term, or any subsequent day to which the same may be postponed. If
I
the sale be not made at public auction, or, if made at public auction,
a hearing upon the return of proceedings be asked for in the return, or
is brought on for a hearing upon a day before the first day of the next
term after such sale, the court or judge must fix the day for the hear
ing, of which notice of at least ten days must be given by the clerk,
by notices posted in three public places in the county, or by publica
tion in a newspaper, or both, as the court or judge shall direct, and
must briefly indicate the land sold, the sum for which it was sold, and
must refer to the return for further particulars. • Upon the hearing the
court must examine the return and witnesses in relation to the same,
and if the proceedings were unfair, or the sum bid disproportionate to
the value, and that a sum exceeding such bid, at least ten per cent,
exclusive of the expenses of a new sale, may be obtained, the court
may vacate the sale and direct another to be had, of which notice must
be given, and the sales in all respects conducted as if no previous sale
had taken place. If an offer of ten per cent, more in amount than
that named in the return be made to the court in writing by a responsi
ble person, it is in the discretion of the court to accept such offer and
confirm the sale to such person, or to order a new sale.
Sec. 202. When return of the sale is made and filed, any person
interested in the estate may file written objections to the confirmation
thereof, and may be heard thereon when the return is heard by the
court or judge, and may produce witnesses in support of his objections.
Sec. 203. If it appears to the court that the sale was legally made
and fairly conducted, and that the sum bid was not disproportionate to
the value of the property sold, and that a greater sum as above
specified cannot be obtained, or if the increased bid mentioned in section 201 be made and accepted by the court, the court must make
an order confirming the sale and directing conveyances to be executed.
The sale from that time is confirmed and valid ; and a certified copy
of the order confirming it and directing conveyances to be executed,
must be recorded in the office of the recorder of the county within
which the land sold is situated. If, after the confirmation, the pur-
. chaser neglects or refuses to comply with the terms of sale, the court
may, on motion of the executor or administrator, and after notice to
the purchaser, order a re-sale to be made of the property. If the
amount realized on such re-sale does not cover the bid and expenses of
the previous sale, such purchaser is liable for the deficiency to the
estate.
Sec. 204. Conveyances must thereupon be executed to the purchaser
by the executor or administrator, and they must refer to the orders of
the probate court authorizing and confirming the sale of the property
of the estate, and directing the conveyances thereof to be executed,
and to the record of the confirmation, in the office of the county
recorder, either by the date of such recording or by the date, volume
and page of the record, and such references shall have the same effect
as if the order were at large inserted in the conveyance. Conveyances
so made convey all the right, title, interest and estate of the decedent
in the premises at the time of his death, if prior to the sale, by opera
tion of law or otherwise, the estate has acquired any right, title or
interest in the premises other than or in addition to that of the dece
dent at the time of his death, such right, title or interest also passes by
such conveyance.
Sec. 205. Before any order is entered confirming the sale, it must
be proved to the satisfaction of the court that notice was given of the
sale as prescribed, and the order of confirmation must show that such
proof was made.
Sec. 206. If, at the time appointed for the sale, the executor or
administrator deems it for the interest of all persons concerned therein
that the same be postponed, he may postpone it from time to time, not
exceeding in all three months.
Sec. 207. In case of a postponement, notice thereof must be given
by public declaration at the time and place first appointed for the sale,
and if the postponement be for more than one day, further notice must
be given by posting notices in three or more public places in the county
where the land is situated, or publishing the same, or both, as the time
and circumstances will admit.
Sec. 208. If the testator makes provision by his will, or designates
the estate to be appropriated for the payment of his debts, the
expenses of administration, or family expenses, they must be paid
according to such provision or designation, out of the estate thus
appropriated, so far as the same is sufficient.
Sec. 209. When property is directed by the will to be sold, or
authority is given in the will to sell property, the executor may sell any
property of the estate without the order of the probate court, and at
either public or private sale, and with or without notice, as the executor
may determine ; but the executor must make return of such sales as in
other cases ; and if directions are given in the will as to the mode of
selling, or the particular property to be sold, such directions must be
observed. In either case no title passes unless the sale is confirmed by
the court.
Sec. 210. If the provision made by the will, or the estate appro
priated therefor, is insufficient to pay the debts, expenses of adminis
tration, and family expenses, that portion of the estate not devised or
disposed of by the will, if any, must be appropriated and disposed of
for that purpose, according to the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 211. The estate, real and personal, given by will to legatees or
devisees, is liable for the debts, expenses of administration, and family
expenses, in proportion to the value or amount of the several devises or
legacies, but specific devises or legacies are exempt from such liability
if it appears to the c^purt necessary to carry into effect the intention of
the testator, and there is other sufficient estate.
Sec. 212. When an estate, given by will, has been sold for the pay
ment of debts or expenses, all the devisees and legatees must contribute
according to their respective interests to the devisee or legatee whose
devise or legacy has been taken therefor, and the probate court, when
distribution is made, must, by decree for that purpose, settle the
amount of the several liabilities and decree the amount each person
shall contribute, and reserve the same from their distributive shares
respectively for the purpose of paying such contribution.
Sec. 218. If a decedent, at the time of his death, was possessed of
a contract for the purchase of lands, his interest in such land and
under such contracts may be sold, on the application of his executor
or administrator, in the same manner as if he had died seized of such
lands, and the same proceedings may be had for that purpose as are
prescribed in this chapter for the sale of lands of which he died seized,
except as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 214. The sale must be made subject to all payments that may
thereafter become due on such contracts, and if there are any such the
sale must not be confirmed by the probate judge until the purchasers
execute a bond to the executor or administrator for the benefit and
indemnity of himself and of the persons entitled to the interest of the
decedent in the lands so contracted for, in double the whole amount of
payments thereafter to become due on such contract, with sureties as
the probate judge shall approve.
Sec. 215. The bond must be conditioned that the purchaser will
make all payments for such land that become due after the date of the
sale, and will fully indemnify the executor or administrator and the
Eersons so entitled against all demands, costs, charges, and expenses,
y reason of any covenant or agreement contained in such contract.
Sec. 216. Upon the confirmation of the sale the executor or admin
istrator must execute to the purchaser an assignment of the contract,
which vests in the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, all the right, title,
and interest of the estate, or of the persons entitled to the interest of
the decedent in the lands sold at the time of the sale, and the pur
chaser has the same rights and remedies against the vendor of such
land as the decedent would have had if he were living.
Sec. 217. When any sale is made by an executor or administrator,
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, of lands subject to any
mortgage or other lien which is a valid claim against the estate of the
decedent, and has been presented and allowed, the purchase money
must be applied, after paying the necessary expenses of the sale, first,
to the payment and satisfaction of the mortgage or lien, and the resi
due, if any, in due course of administration. The application of the
purchase money to the satisfaction of the mortgage or lien must be
made without delay, and the land is subject to such mortgage or lien
until the purchase money has been actually so applied. No claim
against any estate, which has been presented and allowed, is affected
by the statute of limitations, pending the proceedings for the settle
ment of the estate.
The purchase money, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to pay
such mortgage or lien, with interest, and any lawful costs and charges
thereon, may be paid into the probate court, to be received by the clerk
thereof, whereupon the mortgage or lien upon the land must cease ;
and the purchase money must be paid over by tlie clerk of the court
without delay, in payment of the expenses of the sale, and in satisfac
tion of the debt to secure which the mortgage or other lien was taken,
and the surplus, if any, at once returned to the executor or adminis
trator, unless, for good 'cause shown, after notice to the executor or
administrator, the court otherwise directs.
Sec. 218. At any sale, under order of the probate court, of lands
upon which there is a mortgage or lien, the holder thereof may become
the purchaser, and his receipt for the amount due him from the pro
ceeds of the sale is a payment pro tanto. If the amount for which he
purchased the property is insufficient to defray the expenses and dis
charge his mortgage or lien, he must pay to the court or the clerk
thereof an amount sufficient to pay such expenses.
Sec. 219. If there is any neglect or misconduct in the proceedings
of the executor in relation to any sale, by which any person interested
in the estate suffers damage, the party aggrieved may recover the same
in an action upon the bond of the executor or administrator, or oth
erwise.
Sec. 220. Any executor or administrator who fraudulently sells any
real estate of a decedent, contrary to or otherwise than under the pro->
visions of this chapter, is liable in double the value of the land sold,
as liquidated damages, to be recovered in an action by the person
having an estate of inheritance therein.
Sec. 221. No action for the recovery of any estate sold by an
executor or administrator under the provisions of this chapter, can be
maintained by any heir or other person claiming under the decedent,
unless it be commenced within three years next after the sale. An
action to set aside the sale may he instituted and maintained at any
time within three years from the discovery of the fraud, or other
grounds upon which the action is based.
Sec. 222. The preceding section shall not apply to minors or others
under any legal disability to sue at the time when the right of action
first accrues, but all such persons may commence an action at any
time within three years after the removal of the disability.
Sec. 223. When a sale has been made by an executor or adminis
trator of any property of the estate, real or personal, he must return to
the probate court, at its next term thereafter, an account of sales,
verified by his affidavit. If he neglects to make such return he may
be punished by attachment, or his letters may be revoked, one day's
notice having been first given him to appear and show cause why such
attachment should not issue, or such revocation should not be made.
Sec. 224. No executor or administrator must, directly or indirectly,
purchase any property of the estate he represents, nor must he be
interested in any such sale.
CHAPTEE VIII.
AETICLE I.
OF THE POWERS AND DUTIES OF EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS
AND OF THE MANAGEMENT OF ESTATES.
Sec. 225. Possession of estate by executor or administrator.
Sec. 226. Actions by or against administrator and executor.
Sec. 227. Actions for injuries to property of decedent committed during
his lifetime.
Sec. 228. Actions for injuries committed by decedent in his lifetime.
Sec. 229. Rights and duties of surviving partner of decedent.
Sec. 230. Action upon bond of prior executor or administrator.
Sec. 231. Joinder of parties in actions by or against ekecutor.
Sec. 232. Compounding with debtor ofmestate.
Sec. 283. Proceedings against estate of fraudulent and insolvent dece
dent.
Sec. 234. Security by creditors in such proceedings.
Sec. 235. Disposition of estate recovered in such proceedings.
Sec. 225. The executor or administrator must take into his posses
sion all the estate of the decedent, real or personal, and collect all
debts due to the decedent or to the estate. For the purpose of bring
ing suits to quiet title, or for partition of such estate, the possession of
the executors or administrators is the possession of the heirs or
devisees ; such possession by the heirs or devisees is subject, however,
to the possession of the executor or administrator for the purposes of
administration, as provided in this title.
Sec. 226. Actions for the recovery of any property, real or per
sonal, or for the possession thereof, and all actions founded upon con
tracts, may be maintained by and against executors and administra
tors in all cases in which the same might have been maintained by or
against their respective testators or intestates.
Sec. 227. Executors and administrators may maintain actions
against any person who has wasted, destroyed, taken or carried away
or converted to his own use, the goods of the testator or intestate in
his lifetime. They may also maintain actions for trespass committed
on the real estate of the decedent in his lifetime.
Sec. 228. Any person, or his personal representatives, may main
tain an action against the executor or administrator of any testator or
intestate who in his lifetime has wasted, destroyed, taken or carried
away, or converted to his own use, the goods or chattels of any such
person, or committed any trespass on the real estate of such person.
Sec. 229. When a partnership exists between the decedent, at the
time of his death, and any other person, the surviving partner has the
right to continue in possession of the partnership, and to settle its
business, but the interest of the decedent in the partnership must be
included in the inventory and be appraised and appropriated as other
property. The surviving partner must settle the affairs of the partner
ship without delay, and account with the executor or administrator,
and pay over such balances as may from time to time be payable to
him in right of the decedent. Upon the application of the executor or
administrator, the probate judge may, whenever it appears necessary,
order the surviving partner to render an account, and in case of neg
lect or refusal may, after notice, compel it by attachment, and the
executor or administrator may maintain against him any action which
the decedent could have maintained.
Sec. 230. An administrator may, in his own name, for the use and
benefit of all parties interested in the estate, maintain actiqns on the
bond of an executor, or of any former administrator of the same
estate.
Sec. 281. In actions by or against executors it is not necessary to
join those as parties to whom letters were issued, but who have not
qualified.
Sec. 282. Whenever a debtor of a decedent is unable to pay all his
debts, the executor or administrator, with the approbation of the pro
bate court or judge, may compound with him and give him a discharge
upon receiving a fair and just dividend of his effects. A compromise
may also be authorized when it appears to be just and for the best
interest of the estate.
Sec. 288. When there is a deficiency of assets in the hands of an
executor or administrator, and when the decedent in his lifetime has
conveyed any real estate or any rights or interests therein with intent
to defraud his creditors, or to avoid any right, debt, or duty of any per
son, or has so conveyed such estate that by law the deeds or convey
ances are void as against creditors, the executor or administrator must
commence and prosecute to final judgment any proper action for the
recovery of the same, and may recover for the benefit of the creditors
all such real estate so fraudulently conveyed, and may also, for the
benefit of the creditors, sue and recover all goods, chattels, rights, or
credits which have been so conveyed by the decedent in his lifetime,
whatever may have been the manner of such fraudulent conveyance.
Sec. 234. No executor or administrator is bound to sue for such
estate as is mentioned in the preceding section, for the benefit of the
creditors, unless on application of creditors, who must pay such part
of the costs and expenses of the suit, or give security to the executor
or administrator therefor, as the probate judge shall direct.
Sec. 235. All real estate so recovered must be sold for the payment
of debts in the same manner as if the decedent had died seized thereof,
upon obtaining an order therefor from the probate court, and the pro
ceeds of all goods, chattels, rights, and credits so recovered must be
appropriated in payment of the debts of the decedent, in the same
manner as other property in the hands of the executor or adminis
trator.
CHAPTER IX.
ARTICLE I.
OF THE CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINIS
TRATORS IN CERTAIN CASES.
Sec. 236.
Sec. 237.
Sec. 238.
Sec. 239.
Sec. 240.
Sec. 241.
Sec.
242.
Sec. 243.Sec.
244.
Sec.
245.
Sec. 246.
Court, may authorize completion of contract to convey.
Petition for conveyance , notice and hearing thereof.
At the hearing interested parties may contest.
Decree ordering execution of conveyance.
Execution and record of conveyance.
Dismissal of action without prejudice to action in district court.
Effect of conveyance made under this chapter.
Effect of recording copy of the decree.
Record of not to prevent enforcement by other process.
Successor of person entitled to conveyance; rights of.
Wlten decree may direct surrender of possessions.
Sec. 236. When a person who is bound by contract, in writing, to
convey any real estate, dies before making the conveyance, and in all
cases where such decedent, if living, might be compelled to make such
conveyance, the probate court may make a decree authorizing and
directing his executor or administrator to convey such real estate to the
person entitled thereto.
Sec. 237. On the presentation of a verified petition by any person
claiming to be entitled to such conveyance from an executor or admin
istrator, setting forth the facts upon which the claim is predicated, the
probate court must appoint a time and place for hearing the petition,
at a regular term of the court, and must order notice thereof to be
published at least four successive weeks before such hearing, in such
newspaper in this Territory as he may designate.
Sec. 238. At the time and place appointed for the hearing, or at
such other time to which the same may be postponed, upon satisfac
tory proof, by affidavit or otherwise, of the due publication of the
notice, the court must proceed to a hearing, and all persons interested
in the estate may appear and contest such petition by filing their objec
tions in writing, and the court may examine, on oath, the petitioner
and all who may be produced before him for that purpose.
Sec. 239. If, after a full hearing upon the petition and objections,
and examination of the facts and circumstances of the claim, the court
is satisfied that the petitioner is entitled to a conveyance of the real
estate described in the petition, a decree authorizing and directing the
executor or administrator to execute a conveyance thereof to the peti
tioner must be made, entered on the minutes of the court, and recorded.
Sec. 240. The executor or administrator must execute the convey
ance according to the directions of the decree, a certified copy of which
must be recorded with the deed in the office of the recorder of the
county where the lands lie, and is prima facie evidence of the correct
ness of the proceedings, and of the authority of the executor or admin
istrator to make the conveyance.
Sec. 241. If, upon hearing in the probate court, as hereinbefore
provided, the right of the petitioner to nave a specific performance of
contract is found to be doubtful, the court must dismiss the petition
without prejudice to the rights of the petitioner, who may, at anytime
within six months thereafter, proceed in the district court to enforce a
specific performance thereof.
Sec. 242. Every conveyance made in pursuance of a decree of the
probate court, as provided in this chapter, shall pass the title to the
estate contracted for as fully as if the contracting party himself was
still living and executed the conveyance.
Sec. 243. A copy of the decree for a conveyance, made by the pro
bate court and duly certified and recorded in the office of the recorder
of the county where the land lies, gives the person entitled tb the con
veyance a right to the possession of the lands contracted for, and to
hold the same according to the terms of the intended conveyance, in
like manner as if they had been conveyed in pursuance of the decree.
Sec. 244. The recording of any decree, as provided in the preceding section, shall not prevent the court making the decree from enforcing
the same by other process.
Sec. 245. If the person entitled to conveyance dies before the com
mencement of proceedings therefor under this chapter, or before the
completion of the conveyance, any person entitled to succeed his rights
in the contract, or the executor or administrator of such decedent, may,
for the benefit of the person so entitled, commence such proceedings or
prosecute any already commenced, and the conveyance must be so
made as to vest the estate in the persons entitled to it, or in the execu
tor or administrator for their benefit.
Sec. 246. The decree provided for in this chapter may direct the
possession of the property therein described to be surrendered to the
person entitled thereto, upon his producing the deed and a certified
copy of the decree, when, by the terms of the contract, possession is
to be surrendered.
Sec. 247. No executor or administrator is chargeable upon any
special promise to answer damages or to pay the debts of the testator
or intestate out of hiB own estate, unless the agreement for that
purpose, or some memorandum or note therefor, is in writing, and
signed by such executor or administrator, or by some other person by
him thereunto specially authorized.
Sec. 248. Every executor and administrator is chargeable in his own
account with the whole of the estate of the decedent which may come
into his possession, at the value of the appraisement contained in the
inventory, except as provided in the following sections, and with all the
interest, profit, and income of the estate.
Sec. 249. He shall not make profit by the increase nor suffer loss
by the decrease or destruction, without his fault, of any part of the
estate. He must account for the excess when he sells any part of the
estate for more than appraisement, and if any is sold for less than the
appraisement he is not responsible for the loss, if the sale has been
justly made.
Sec. 2i0. No executor or administrator is accountable for any debts
due to the decedent, if it appears that they remain uncollected without
his fault.
Sec. 251. He shall be allowed all necessary expenses in the care,
management, and settlement of the estate, including reasonable fees
paid to attorneys for conducting the necessary proceedings or suits in
the probate or other courts, and for his services such fees as provided
in this chapter ; %ut when the decedent, by his will, makes some other
provision for the compensation of his executor, that shall be full com
pensation for his services, unless, by a written instrument filed in the
probate court, he renounces all claims for compensation provided by
the will.
Sec. 252. No administrator or executor shall purchase any claim
against the estate he represents, and if he pays any claim for less than
its nominal value, he is only entitled to charge in his account the
amount he actually paid.
Sec. 258. When no compensation is provided by the will or the
executor renounces all claim thereto, he must be allowed commissions
upon the amount of the whole estate accounted for by him, as follows :
For the first thousand dollars at the rate of seven per cent ; for all
above that sum at the rate of four per cent ; and the same commission
must be allowed administrators. In all cases such further allowance
may be made as the probate judge may deem just and reasonable for
any extraordinary service ; the total amount of such allowance must
not exceed the amount of commissions allowed by this section, and
that public administrators shall receive the same compensation and
allowances as are allowed in this Title to other administrators.
ARTICLE II.
ACCOUNTING AND SETTLEMENTS BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
Sec. 254. Exhibit to be rendered at third term of court.
Sec. 255. Citation to issue in case of failure.
Sec. 256. Petition to compel exhibit of account.
Sec. 257. Citation requiring an account.
Sec. 258. Contesting of account; when letters revoked.
Sec. 259. Upon failure after citation, attachment to issue.
Sec. 260. Annual account; what to contain.
Sec. 261. Account after revocation of letters.
Sec. 262. Upon failure to account letters to be revoked.
Sec. 263. Vouchers to be produced and filed.
Sec. 264. Items of less than twenty dollars allowed without vouchers.
Sec. 265. Time and- notice of settlement of account.
Sec. 266. Notice of final settlement and distribution.
Sec. 267. Exceptions to and contest of account.
Sec. 268. Contest by heirs on cause shown; reference.
Sec. 269. Effect of settlement and allowance of account.
Sec. 270. Proof of notice of settlement.
Sec. 271. Sale of personal upon application to sell real property .
Sec. 272. Order to invest moneys of estate.
•
Sec. 254. At the third term of the court after his appointment, and
thereafter at any time when required by the court, either upon his own
motion or upon the application of any person interested in the estate,
the executor or administrator must render, for the information of the
court, an exhibit, under oath, showing the amount of money received
and expended by him, the amount of all claims presented against the
estate, and the names of the claimants, and all other matters necessary
to show the condition of its affairs. ^
Sec. 255. If the executor or administrator fails to render an exhibit
at the third term of the court, the judge of the probate court must cause
a citation to be issued requiring him to appear and render it.
Sec. 256. Any person interested in the estate may, at any time
before the final settlement of accounts, present his petition to the
probate judge, praying that the executor or administrator be required
to appear and render such exhibit, setting forth the facts showing that
it is necessary and proper that such an exhibit should be made.
Sec. 257. If the judge is satisfied, either from the oath of the
applicant or from any other testimony offered, that the facts alleged
are true, and considers the showing of the applicant sufficient, he must
direct a citation to be issued to the executor or administrator, requiring
him to appear at some day to be named in the citation, which must be
during a term of the court, and render an exhibit as prayed for.
Sec. 258. When an exhibit is rendered by an executor or adminis
trator, any person interested may appear, and, by objections in writing,
eontest any account or statement therein contained. The court may
examine the executor or administrator, and if he has been guilty of
neglect, or has wasted, embezzled, or mismanaged the estate, his
letters must be revoked.
Sec. 259. If any executor or administrator neglects or refuses to
appear and render an exhibit, after having been duly cited, an attach
ment may be issued against him, and such exhibit enforced, or his
letters may be revoked in the discretion of the court.
Sec. 260. Every executor or administrator must render a full
account and a report of his administration at the expiration of one
year from the time of his appointment. If he fails to present his
account the court or judge must compel the rendering of the account
by attachment, and any person interested in the estate may apply for
and obtain an attachment ; but no attachment must issue unless a cita
tion has been first issued, served, and returned, requiring the executor
or administrator to appear and show cause why an attachment should
not issue. Every account rendered must exhibit not only the debts
which have been paid, but also a statement of all debts which have
been duly presented and allowed during the period embraced in the
account.
Sec. 261. When the authority of an executor or administrator ceases
or is revoked for any reason, he may be cited to account before the
probate court, at the instance of the person succeeding to the adminis
tration of the same estate, in like manner as he might have been cited
by any person interested in the estate during the time he was exe
cutor or administrator.
Sec. 262. If the executor or administrator resides out of the county,
or absconds, or conceals himself so that the citation can not be per
sonally served, and neglects to render an account within thirty days
after the time prescribed in this article, or if he neglects to render an
account within thirty days after being committed, where the attach
ment has been executed, his letters must be revoked.
Sec. 263. In rendering his account the executor or administrator
must produce and file vouchers for all charges, debts, claims, and
expenses which he has paid, which must remain in the court ; and he may
be examined on oath touching such payments, and also touching any
property and effects of the decedent, and the disposition thereof.
When any voucher is required for other purposes, it may be withdrawn
on leaving a certified copy on file ; if a voucher is lost, or for other
good reasons cannot be produced on the settlement, the payment may
be proved by the oath of any competent witness.
Sec. 264. On the settlement of his account he may be allowed any
item of expenditure, not exceeding twenty dollars, for which no voucher
is produced, if such item be supported by his own uncontradicted oath,
positive to the fact of payment, specifying when, where, and to whom
it was made ; but such allowance, in the whole, must not exceed five
hundred dollars against any one estate.
Sec. 265. When any account is rendered for settlement, the court
or judge must appoint a day for the settlement thereof. The clerk
must thereupon give notice thereof, by causing notices to be posted in
at least three public places in the county, setting forth the name of the
estate, the executor or administrator, and the day appointed for the
settlement of the account, which must be on some day of a term of the
court. The court or probate judge may order such further notice to be
given as may be proper.
Sec. 266. If the account mentioned in the preceding section be for
a final settlement, and the estate be ready for distribution, the notice
of the settlement must state those facts, and must be served, published,
or waived in the same manner as provided in section 180 of this code,
relating to sales of property ; and on confirmation of the final account,
distribution and partition of the estate to all entitled thereto may be
immediately had without further notice or proceedings. If, from any
cause, the hearing of the account or the partition and distribution be
postponed, the order postponing the same to a day certain is notice to
all persons interested therein.
Sec. 267. On the day appointed, or any subsequent day to which
the hearing may be postponed by the court, any person interested in
the estate may appear and file his exceptions in writing to the account,
and contest the same.
Sec. 268. All matters, including allowed claims not passed upon on
the settlement of any former account, or on rendering an exhibit, or on
making a decree of sale, may be contested by the heirs, for cause
shown. The hearing and allegations of the respective parties may be
postponed from time to time, when necessary, and the court may
appoint one or more referees to examine the accounts and make report
thereon, subject to confirmation, and may allow a reasonable compen
sation to the referees, to be paid out of the estate of the decedent.
Sec. 269. The settlement of the account and the allowance thereof
by the court, or upon appeal, is conclusive against all persons in any
way interested in the estate ; saving, however, to all persons laboring
under any legal disability their right to move, for cause, to reopen and
examine the account, or to proceed by action against the executor or
administrator, either individually or upon his bond, at any time before
final distribution, and in any action brought by any such person the al
lowance and settlement of the account is prima facie evidence of its
correctness.
Sec. 270. The account must not be allowed by the court until it is
first proved that notice has been given as required by this chapter, and
the decree must show that such proof was made to the satisfaction of
the court, and is conclusive evidence of the fact.
Sec. 271. Whenever it appears to the court, on any hearing of an
application for the sale of real property, that it would be for the inter
est of the estate that personal property of the estate, or some part of
such property, should be first sold, the court may decree the sale of
such personal property, or any part of it, and the sale thereof shall be
conducted in the same manner as if the application had been made for
the sale of such personal property in the first instance.
Sec. 272. Pending the settlement of any estate, on the petition of
any party interested therein, the probate court may order any moneys
in the hands of the executors or administrators to he invested for the
benefit of the estate in securities of the United States or of this Terri
tory. Such order can only be made after publication of notice of the
petition in some newspaper, to be designated by the judge.
ARTICLE III.
THE PAYMENT OF DEBTS OF THE ESTATE.
Sec. 278. Order in which debts must be paid.
Sec. 274. Payment of mortgage lien, ete.
Sec. 275. Apportionment when assets insufficient.
Sec. 276. Time in which claims to be paid.
Sec. 277. Order of court to pay debts; when account deemed final.
See. 278. Paument of certain claims into court and of rebate of interest.
Sec. 279. Liability when claim is allowed and ordered paid. •
Sec. 280. Remedy when claim is not included in order of payment.
Sec. 2il. Distribution after jMyment of debts.
Sec. 282. Final account after time has been extended.
Sec. 283. .Proceedings upon neglect to render same.
Sec. 273. The debts of the estate must be paid in the following
order :
First. Funeral expenses.
Second. Expenses of last sickness.
Third. The wages of each minor, mechanic, salesman, clerk, ser
vant, or laborer, for services rendered within forty clays next preceding
the death of the employer, not exceeding one hundred dollars.
Fourth. Debts due the county, Territory, or United States.
Fifth. All other demands against the estate, except that where a
lien exists by mortgage, pledge, attachment, or judgment, such lien
shall have preference to the extent of such demand on any specific
property to which such lien may attach.
Sec. 274. The. preference given in the preceding section to a mort
gage only extends to the proceeds of the property mortgaged. If the
proceeds of such property are insufficient to pay the mortgage, the part
remaining unsatisfied must be classed with other demands against the
estate.
Sec. 275. If the estate is insufficient to pay all the debts of any one
class, each creditor must be paid a dividend in proportion to his claim ;
and no creditor of any one class shall receive such payment until all
those of the preceding class are fully paid.
Sec. 276. The executor or administrator, as soon as he has sufficient
funds in his hands, must pay the funeral expenses, and the expenses of
the last sickness, and the allowance made to the family of tlie dece
dent. He may retain in his hands the necessary expenses of adminis
tration, but he is not obliged to pay any other debt, or any legacy, un
til, as prescribed in this article, the payment has been ordered by the
court.
Sec. 277. Upon the settlement of the accounts of the executor or
administrator, at the end of the year, as required in this chapter, the
court must make an order for the payment of the debts, as the circum
stances of the estate require. If there are not sufficient funds in the
hands of the executor or administrator, the court must specify in the
decree the sum to be paid to each creditor. If the whole property of
the estate be exhausted by such payment or distribution, such account
must be considered as a final account, and the executor or administra
tor is entitled to his discharge on producing and filing the necessary
vouchers and proofs, showing that such payments have been made, and
that he has fully complied with the decree of the court.
Sec. 278. If there is any claim not due, or any contingent or dis
puted claim against the estate, the amount thereof, or such part of the
same as the holder would be entitled to if the claim were due, estab
lished, or absolute, must be paid into the court, and there remain to be
paid over to the party when he becomes entitled thereto ; or, if he fails
to establish his claim, to be paid over or distributed as the circum
stances of the estate require. If any creditor whose claim has been al
lowed, but is not yet due, appears and assents to a deduction therefrom
of the legal interest for the time the claim has yet to run, he is entitled
to be paid accordingly. The payments provided for in this section are
not to be made when the estate is insolvent, unless a pro rata distribu
tion is ordered.
Sec. 279. When a decree is made by the probate court for the pay
ment of creditors, the executor or administrator is personally liable to
each creditor for his allowed claim, or the dividend thereon, and execu
tion may be issued on such decree, as upon a judgment in the district
court, in favor of each creditor, and the same proceeding may be had
under such execution as if it had been issued from the district court.
The executor or administrator is liable therefor, on his bond, to each
creditor.
Sec. 280. When the accounts of the administrator or executor have
been settled and an order made for the payment of debts and distribu
tion of the estate, no creditor whose claim was not included in the or
der for payment has any right to call upon the creditors who have been
paid, or upon the heirs, devisees, or legatees, to contribute to the pay
ment of his claim ; but if the executor or administrator has failed to
give the notice to the creditors, as prescribed in section 148, such cred
itor may recover on the bond of the executor or administrator the
amount of his claim, or such part thereof as he would have been enti
tled to had it been allowed. This section shall not apply to any cred
itor whose claim was not due ten months before the day of settlement,
or whose claim was contingent and did not become absolute ten months
before such date.
Sec. 281. If the whole of the debts have been paid by the first dis
tribution, the court must direct the payment of legacies and the distri
bution of the estate among the heirs, legatees, or other persons entitled,
as provided in the next chapter ; but if there be debts remaining unEaid.
or if, for other reasons, the estate be not in a proper condition to
e closed, the court must give such extension of time as may be reason
able for a final settlement of the estate.
Sec. 282. At the time designated in the last section, or sooner, if
within that time all the property of the estate has been sold, or there
are sufficient funds in his hands for the payment of all the debts due
by the estate, and the estate be in a proper condition to be closed, the
executor or administrator must render a final account and pray a set
tlement of his administration.
Sec. 283. If he neglects to render his account, the same proceedings
may be had as provided in this chapter in regard to the first account to
be rendered by him, and all the provisions of this chapter relative to
the last mentioned account, and the notice and settlement thereof, ap
ply to his account presented for final settlement.
CHAPTEE XI.
ARTICLE I.
PARTIAL DISTRIBUTION PRIOR TO FINAL SETTLEMENT.
Sec. 284. Payment of shares on qiving bonds.
Sec. 285. Notice of application for same.
Sec. 286. Application may he resisted.
Sec. 287. Hearing ; order of payment; costs of proceeding.
Sec. 288. Petition for and order of payment by bondsmen.
Sec. 284. At any time after the lapse of four months from the issu
ing of letters testamentary or of administration, any heir, devisee, or
legatee, may present his petition to the court for the legacy or share of
the estate to which he is entitled, to be given to him on his giving bonds,
with security, for the payment of his proportion of the debts of the
estate.
Sec. 286. Notice of the application must be given to the executor or
administrator, personally, and to all persons interested in the estate,
in the same manner that notice is required to be given of the settle
ment of the account of an executor or administrator.
Sec. 286. The exacutor or administrator, or any person interested
in the estate, may appear at the time named and resist the applica
tion, or any other heir, devisee, or legatee may make a similar appli
cation for himself.
Sec. 287. If. at the hearing, it appears that the estate is but little
indebted, and that the share of the party applying may be allowed to
him without loss to the creditors of the estate, the court must make an
order in conformity with the prayer of the applicant, requiring :
First. Each heir, legatee, or devisee obtaining such order, before
receiving his share or any portion thereof, to execute and deliver, to
the executor or administrator a bond in such sum as shall be desig
nated by the probate judge, with sureties to be approved by the judge,
payable to the executor or administrator, and conditioned for the pay
ment, whenever required, of his proportion of the debts due from the
estate, not exceeding the value or amount of the legacy or portion of
the estate to which he is entitled.
Second. The executor or administrator to deliver to the heir, legatee,
or devisee, the whole portion of the estate to which he may be entitled,
or only a part thereof, designating it. If, in the execution of the order,
a partition is necessary between two or more of the parties interested,
it must be made in the manner hereinafter prescribed.
The costs of these proceedings to be paid by the applicant, or, if there
be more than one, to be apportioned equally amongst them.
Sec. 288. When any bond has been executed and delivered under
the provisions of the preceding section, and it is necessary for the set
tlement of the estate to require the payment, of any part of the money
thereby secured, the executor or administrator must petition the court
for an order requiring the payment, and have a citation issued and
served on the party bound, requiring him to appear and show cause
why the order should not be made. At the hearing, the court, if satis
fied of the necessity of such payment, must make an order accord
ingly, designating the amount and giving a time within which it must
be paid. If the money is not paid within the time allowed, an action
may be maintained by the executor or administrator on the bond.
ARTICLE II.
DISTRIBUTION ON FINAL SETTLEMENT.
Sec. 289. When estate distributed and of the expenses of closing.
See. 290. What to contain and effect of decree.
Sec. 291. Proceedings ichen decedent was a non-resident and left a
will.
Sec. 292. Decree made on petition; jurisdiction in partition.
Sec. 298. Payment of taxes a condition precedent to distribution.
Sec. 289. Upon the final settlement of the accounts of the executor
or administrator, or at any subsequent time, upon the application of
the executor or administrator, or of any heir, legatee, or devisee, the
court must proceed to distribute the residue of the estate, if any, in the
hands of the executor or administrator, among the persons who by law
are entitled thereto ; and if the decedent has left a surviving child, and
the issue of other children, and any of them, before the close of admin
istration, have died while under age and not having been married, no
administration on such deceased child's estate is necessary, but all the
estate which such deceased child was entitled to by inheritance must,
without administration, be distributed to the other heirs at law. A
statement of any receipts and disbursements of the executor or admin
istrator, since the rendition of his final accounts, must be reported and
filed at the time of making such distribution, and a settlement thereof,
together with an estimate of the expenses of closing the estate, must
be made by the court and included in the order or decree ; or, the
court or judge may order notice of the settlement of such supple
mentary account, and refer the same as in other cases of the settle
ment of accounts.
Sec. 290. In the order or decree the court must name the persons
and the proportions or parts to which each shall be entitled, and such
persons may demand, sue for, and recover their respective shares from
the executor or administrator, or any person having the same in pos
session. Such order or decree is conclusive as to the rights of heirs.
legatees, or devisees, subject only to be reversed, set aside, or modified
on appeal.
Sec. 291. Upon application for distribution, after final settlement
of the accounts of administration, if the decedent was a non-resident of
this Territory, leaving a will which has been duly proved or allowed in
the State or Territory of his residence, and an authenticated copy
thereof has been admitted to probate in this Territory, and it is neces
sary, in order that the estate or airy part thereof may be distributed
according to the will, that the estate in this Territory should be deliv
ered to the executor or administrator in the State or place of his resi
dence, the court may order such delivery to be made, and, if necessary,
order a sale of the real estate, and a like delivery of the proceeds. The
delivery, in accordance with the order of the court, is a full discharge
of the executor or administrator with the will annexed, in this Terri
tory, in relation to all property embraced in such order, which, unless
reversed on appeal, binds and concludes all parties in interest. Sales
of real estate ordered by virtue of this section must be made in the
same manner as other sales of real estate of decedents by order of the
probate court.
Sec. 292. The order or decree may be made on the petition of the
executor or administrator, or of any person interested in the estate.
Notice of the application must be given by posting or publication, as
the court may direct, and for such time as may be ordered. If parti
tion be applied for, as provided in this chapter, the decree of distribu
tion shall not divest the court of jurisdiction to order partition, unless
the estate is finally closed.
Sec. 293. Before any decree of distribution of an estate is made,
the probate court must be satisfied, by the oath of the executor or
administrator or otherwise, that all territorial, county, and municipal
taxes legally levied upon the personal property of the estate, have been
fully paid.
AETICLE III.
DISTRIBUTION AND PARTITION.
Sec. 294. Appointment of commissioners to make partition .
Sec. 295. Petition for partition and notice thereof.
Sec. 29(5. Partition of estate situated in several counties.
Sec. 297. When heirs have conveyed their shares.
Sec. 298. When shares set out by metes and bounds.
Sec. 299. Partition when real estate can not be divided without injury.
Sec. 800. Payments to equalize partition.
Sec. 801. Sate of estate when it can not be fairly divided.
Sec. 302. Notice of partition and power of commissioners.
Sec. 303. Report of commissioners; decree on same, and record thereof.
Sec. 804. Partition not necessary unless requested.
Sec. 805. Advancements made to heirs.
Sec. 294. When the estate, real or personal, assigned by the decree
of distribution, to two or more heirs, devisees, or legatees, is in com
mon and undivided, and the respective shares are not separated and
distinguished, partition or distribution may be made by three disinter
ested persons, to be appointed commissioners for that purpose by the
probate court or judge, who must be duly sworn to the faithful dis
charge of their duties. A certified copy of the order of their appoint
ment, and of the order or decree assigning and distributing the estate,
must be issued to them as their warrant, and their oath must be
indorsed thereon. Upon consent of the parties, or when the court
deems it proper and just, it is sufficient to appoint one commissioner
only, who has the same authority and is governed by the same rules as
if three were appointed.
Sec. 295. Such partition may be ordered and had in the probate
court, on the petition of any person interested. But before com
missioners are appointed, or partition ordered by the probate court as
directed in this chapter, notice thereof must be given to all persons
interested, who reside in this Territory, or to their guardians, and to the
agents, attorneys, or guardians, if any, in this Territory, of such as
reside out of the Territory, either personally or by public notice, as the
probate court may direct. The petition may be filed, attorneys, guar
dians, and agents appointed, and notice given, at any time before the
order or decree of distribution, but the commissioners must not be
appointed until the order or decree is made distributing the estate.
Sec. 296. If the real estate is in different counties, the probate
court may, if deemed proper, appoint a commissioner for all, or dif
ferent commissioners for each county. The estate in each county must
be divided separately among the heirs, devisees, or legatees, as if there
was no other estate to be divided, but the commissioner first appointed
must, unless otherwise directed by the probate court, mak^ division of
such real estate, wherever situated within this Territory.
Sec. 297. Partition or distribution of the real estate may be made as
provided in this chapter, although some of the original heirs, legatees,
or devisees may have conveyed their shares to other persons, and such
shares must be assigned to the person holding the same in the same
manner as they otherwise would have been to such heirs, legatees, or
devisees.
Sec. 298. When both distribution and partition are made, the
several shares in the real and personal estate must be set out to each
individual in proportion to his right by metes and bounds, or descrip
tion, so that the same can be easily distinguished, unless two or more
of the parties interested consent to have their shares set out so as to
be held by them in common and undivided.
Sec. 299. When the real estate cannot be divided without prejudice
or inconvenience to the owners, the probate court may assign the
whole to one or more of the parties entitled to share therein who will
accept it, always preferring the males to the females, and, among
children, preferring the elder to the younger. The parties accepting
the whole must pay to other parties interested their just proportion of
the true value thereof, or secure the same to their satisfaction, or. in
case of the minority of such party, then to the satisfaction of his
guardian ; and the true value of the estate must be ascertained and
reported by commissioners appointed to make partition. If the com
missioners are of the opinion that the real estate cannot be divided
without prejudice or inconvenience to the owners, they must so report
to the court, and recommend that the whole be assigned as herein pro
vided, and must find and report the true value of such real estate. On
filing the report of the commissioners, and on making or securing the
payment as before provided for, the court, if it appears just and
proper, must confirm the report, and thereupon the assignment is com
plete, and the title to the whole of such real estate vests in the person
to whom the same is so assigned.
Sec. yOO. When any tract of land or tenement is of greater value
than any one's share in the estate to be divided, and cannot be divided
without injury to the same, it may be set off by the commissioners
appointed to make partition, to any of the parties who will accept it,
giving preference as prescribed in the preceding section. The party
accepting must pay or secure to the others such sums as the commis
sioners shall award to make the partition equal, and the commissioners
must make their award accordingly ; but such partition must not be
established by the court until the sums awarded are paid to the parties
entitled to the same, or secured to their satisfaction.
Sec. 301. When it appears to the court, from the commissioners'
report, that it can not otherwise be fairly divided, and should be sold,
the court may order the sale of the whole or any part of the estate,
real or personal, by the executor or administrator, or by a commis
sioner appointed for that purpose, and the proceeds distributed. The
sale must be conducted, reported and confirmed, in the same manner
and under the same requirements provided in Article IV, Chapter VII,
of this Title.
Sec. 302. Before any partition is made, or any estate divided, as
provided in this chapter, notice must be given to all persons interested
in the partition, their guardians, agents, or attorneys, by the com
missioners, of the time and place when and where they shall proceed
to make partition. The commissioners may take testimony, order
surveys, and take such other steps as may be necessary to enable them
to form a judgment upon the matters before them.
Sec. 303. The commissioners must report their proceedings, and
the partition agreed upon by them, to the probate court, in writing,
and the court may, for sufficient reasons, set aside the report, and
commit the same to the same commissioners, or appoint others ; and
when such report is finally confirmed, a certified copy of the judgment
or decree of partition made thereon, attested by the clerk, under the
seal of the court, must be recorded in the office of the recorder of the
county where the lands lie.
Sec. 304. When the probate court makes a judgment or decree,
assigning the residue of any estate to one or more persons entitled to
the same, it is not necessary to appoint commissioners to make par
tition or distribution thereof, unless the parties to whom the assign
ment is decreed, or some of them, request that such partition be made.
Sec. 305. All questions as to the advancements made, or alleged to
have been made, by the decedent to his heirs, may be heard and deter
mined by the probate court, and must be specified in the decree
assigning and distributing the estate ; and the final judgment or
decree of the probate court, or, in case of appeal, of the supreme
court, is binding on all parties interested in the estate.
Sec. 806. When any estate is assigned or distributed by a judgment
or decree of the court, as provided in this chapter, to any person
residing out of and having no agent in this Territory, and it is neces
sary that some person should be authorized to take possession and
charge of the same for the benefit of such absent person, the court
may appoint an agent for that purpose, and authorize him to take
charge of such estate, as well as to act for such absent person in the
distribution.
Sec. 307. The agent must first give a bond to the probate judge, to
be approved by him, conditioned that he shall faithfully manage and
account for the estate. The court appointing such agent may allow
a reasonable sum out of the profits of the estate for his services and
expenses.
Sec. 308. When personal property remains in the hands of the
agent unclaimed for a year, and it appears to the court that it is for
the benefit of those interested, it shall be sold under the order of the
court, and the proceeds, after deducting the expenses of the side
allowed by the court, must be paid into the Territorial treasury. When
the payment is made the agent must take from the treasury duplicate
receipts, one of which he must file in the office of the Territorial
auditor, and the other in the probate court.
Sec. 309. The agent must render to the probate court appointing
him, annually, an account showing :
First. The value and character of the property received by him,
what portion thereof is still on hand, what sold, and for what.
Second. The income derived therefrom.
Third. The taxes and assessments imposed thereon, for what, and
whether paid or unpaid.
Fourth. Expenses incurred in the care, protection and management
thereof, whether paid or unpaid, when filed.
The probate court may examine witnesses and take proofs in regard
to the account, and, if satisfied from such accounts and proofs that it
will be for the benefit and advantages of the persons interested therein,
the court may, by order, direct a sale to be made of the whole or such
parts of the real or personal property as shall appear to be proper,
and the purchase money to be deposited in the Territorial treasury.
Sec. 810. The agent is liable on his bond for the care and preserva
tion of the estate while in his hands, and for the payment of the
proceeds of the sale as required in the preceding sections, and may be
sued thereon by any person interested.
Sec. 311. When any person appears and claims the money paid
into the treasury, the probate court making the distribution must
inquire into such claim, and, being first satisfied of his right thereto,
must grant him a certificate to that effect, under its seal ; and upon the
presentation of the certificate to him, the Territorial auditor must draw
his warrant on the treasurer for the amount.
Sec. 312. When the estate has been fully administered, and it is
shown by the executor or administrator, by the production of satisfac
tory vouchers, that he has paid all sums of money due from him, and
delivered up under the order of the court, all the property of the estate
to the parties entitled, and performed all the acts lawfully required of
him, the court must make a judgment or decree, discharging him from
all liability to be incurred thereafter.
Sec. 313. The final settlement of an estate, as in this chapter pro
vided, shall not prevent a subsequent issue of letters testamentary, or
of administration, or of administration with the will annexed, if other
property of the estate be discovered, or if it become necessary or
proper, for any cause, that letters should be again issued.
CHAPTER XII.
OF ORDERS, DECREES, PROCESS, MINUTES, RECORDS, TRIALS, AND
APPEALS.
Sec. 314. Orders and decrees; what to contain and how entered.
Sec. 315. Publication; how often to be made.
Sec. 316. Recwd imparts notice.
Sec. 317. Citations; requisites of.
Sec. 318. May be issued by clerk except, etc.
Sec. 319. How served.
Sec. 320. Personal notice given by citation .
Sec. 321. To be served five days before return.
Sec. 322. Description of lands to be sold.
Sec. 323. Rules of practice.
Sec. 324. Civil practice act shall apply to new trials and appeals; when
appeals taken; of reversal on appeal.
Sec. 325. Time in which appeal taken.
Sec. 326. Trials of issues of fact; of parties and the judgment.
Sec. 327. Of trial by court and jury and motion for new trial.
Sec. 328. Of the appointment and substitution of attorneys, their fees
and duties.
Sec. 329. Certified copies of certain decrees to be recorded.
Sec. 330. Discretionary power as to costs; execution for.
Sec. 331. Removal of executor or administrator or guardian for contempt.
Sec. 332. Service on and appearance of guardian.
Sec. 314. Orders and decrees made by the probate court, or the
judge thereof, need not recite the existence of facts, or the performance
of acts upon which the jurisdiction of the court or judge may depend;
but it shall only be necessary that they contain the matters ordered or
adjudged, except as otherwise provided in this Title. All orders and
decrees of the court or judge must be entered at length in the minute
book of the'court, and upon the close of each term the judge must sign
the minutes. •
Sec. 315. When any publication is ordered, such publication must
be made daily, or otherwise, as often during the prescribed period as
the paper is regularly issued, unless otherwise provided in this Title.
The court or judge may, however, order a less number of publications
during the period prescribed.
Sec. 316. When it is provided in this Title that any order or decree
of a probate court or judge, or a copy thereof, must be recorded in the
office of the county recorder, from the time of filing the same for
record notice is imparted to all persons of the contents thereof.
Sec. 317. Citations must be directed to the person to be cited,
signed by the clerk, and issued under the seal of the court, and must
contain :
First. The title of the proceeding.
Second. A brief statement of the nature of the proceeding.
Third. A direction that the person cited appear at a time and place
specified.
Sec. 318. The citation may be issued by the clerk, upon the appli
cation of any party, without an order of the judge, except in cases in
which such order is by the provisions of this Title expressly required.
Sec. 819. The citation must be served in the manner as a summons
in a civil action.
Sec. 320. When personal notice is required and no mode of giving
it is prescribed in this Title, it must be given by citation.
Sec. 821. When no other time is specially prescribed in this Title,
citations must be served at least five days before the return day
thereof.
Sec. 322. When a complete description of the real property of an
estate sought to be sold has been given and published in a newspaper,
as required in the order to show- cause why the sale should not be
made, such description need not be published in any subsequent notice
of sale or notice of a petition for the confirmation thereof ; it is suffi
cient to refer to the description contained in the first notice, as being
proved and on file in the court.
Sec. 823. Except as otherwise provided in this Title, the provisions
of the Civil Practice Act of this Territory are applicable to and consti
tute the rules of practice in the proceedings mentioned in this Title.
Sec. 32 1. The provisions of the Civil Practice Act of this Territory,
relative to new trials and appeals, except in so far as they are incon
sistent with the provisions of this Title, apply to the proceeding
mentioned in this Title.
An appeal may be taken to the district court from a judgment or
order of the probate court :
First. Granting, refusing, or revoking letters testamentary, or of
administration, or of guardianship.
Second. Admitting, or refusing to admit, a will to probate.
Third. Against or in favor of the validity of a will, or revoking the
probate thereof.
Fourth. Against or in favor of setting apart property or making an
allowance for a widow or child.
Fifth. Against or in favor of directing the partition, sale, or convey
ance of real property.
Sixth. Settling an account of an executor or administrator, or
guardian.
Seventh. Refusing, allowing, or directing the distribution or parti
tion of an estate or any part thereof, or the payment of a debt, claim,
legacy, or distributive share.
Eighth. Overruling a motion for new trial.
Ninth. Confirming a report of an appraiser setting apart the home
stead.
When the order or decree appointing an executor or administrator,
or guardian, is reversed, on appeal, for error, and not for want of juris
diction of the court, all lawful acts in administration upon the estate
performed by such executor or administrator, or guardian, if he have
qualified, are as valid as if such order or decree had been affirmed.
Sec. 325. The appeal must be taken within sixty days after the
order, decree, or judgment is entered.
Sec. 326. All issues of fact joined in the probate court must be
tried in conformity with the requirements of this Title, and in all such
proceedings the party affirming is plaintiff, and the one denying or
avoiding is defendant. Judgments therein on the issues joined, as well
as for costs, may be entered and enforced by execution or otherwise, by
the probate court, as in civil actions.
Sec. 327. If no jury is demanded the court must try the issues
joined. If, on written demand, a jury is called by either party, and
the issues are not sufficiently made up by the written pleadings on file,
the court, on due notice to the opposite party, must settle and frame
the issues to be tried, and submit the same, together with the evidence
of each party, to the jury, on which they must render a verdict. Either
may move for a new trial upon the same grounds and errors and in
like manner as provided in the Civil Practice Act of this Territory for
civil actions.
Sec. 328. At or before the hearing of petitions and contests for the
probate of wills, for letters testamentary or of administration; for
sales of real estate, and confirmations thereof ; settlements, partitions,
and distributions of estates ; setting apart homesteads, and all other
proceedings where all the parties interested in the estate are required
to be notified thereof, the court may, in its discretion, appoint some
competent attorney at law to represent, in all such proceedings, the
devisees, legatees, heirs, or creditors of the decedent, who are minors
and have no general guardian in the county, or who are non-residents
of the Territory, and those interested who, though they are neither such
minors or non-residents, are unrepresented. The order must specify
the names of the parties for whom the attorney is appointed, who is
thereby authorized to represent such parties in all such proceedings
had subsequent to his appointment. The attorney may receive a fee,
to be fixed by the court, for his sendees, which must be paid out of the
funds of the estate as necessary expenses of administration, and, upon
distribution, may be charged to the party represented by the attorney.
If, for any cause, it become necessary, the probate court may substitute
another attorney for the one first appointed, in which case the fee must
be proportionately divided. The non-appointment of an attorney will
not affect the validity of any of the proceedings.
Sec. 3*29. When a judgment or decree is made, setting apart a home
stead, confirming a sale, making distribution of real property, or de
termining any other matter affecting the title to real property, a certified
copy of the same must be recorded in the office of the recorder of the
county in which the property is situated.
Sec. 330. When it is not otherwise prescribed in this Title, the pro
bate court, or district court, on appeal, may, in its discretion, order
costs to be paid by any party to the proceedings, or out of the assets of
the estate, as justice may require. Execution for the costs may issue
out of the probate court.
Sec. 331. Whenever an executor, administrator or guardian is com
mitted for contempt in disobeying any lawful order of the probate
court, or the judge thereof, and has remained in custody for thirty days
without obeying such order, or purging himself otherwise of the con
tempt, the probate court may, by order reciting the facts, and without
further showing or notice, revoke his letters and appoint some other
person entitled thereto, executor, administrator, or guardian in his
stead.
Sec. 332. Whenever an infant, insane or incompetent person, has a
guardian of his estate residing in this Territory, personal service upon
the guardian of any process, notice, or order of the probate court, con
cerning the estate of the deceased person, in which the ward is inter
ested, is equivalent to service upon the ward ; and it is the duty of the
guardian to attend to the interests of the ward in the matter. Such
guardian may also appear for his ward, and waive any procees, notice,
or order to show cause which an adult or a person of sound mind
might do.
Sec. 333. Every public administrator, duly appointed, commis
sioned, and qualified, must take charge of the estates of persons dying
within his county, as follows :
First. Of the estates of decedents for which no administrators are
appointed, and which, in consequence thereof, are being wasted,
uncared for, or lost.
Second. Of the estate of decedents who leave no known heirs, or are
strangers.
Third. Of estates ordered into his hands by the probate court.
Fourth. Of estates upon which letters of administration have been
issued to him by the probate court.
Sec. 334. Whenever a public administrator takes charge of an
estate, which he is entitled to administer, without letters of administra
tion being issued, or under order of the court, he must, with all con
venient dispatch, procure letters of administration thereon, in a like
manner and on like proceedings as letters of administration are issued
to other persons. His official bond and oath are in lieu of the admin
istrator's bond and oath, but when real estate is ordered to be sold,
another bond may be required by the court.
Sec. 385. Whenever a stranger, or person without known heirs, dies
intestate in the house or premises of another, the possessor of the
premises, or any one knowing the facts, must give immediate notice
thereof to the public administrator of the county ; and, in default of so
doing, he is liable for any damage that may be sustained thereby, to be
recovered by the administrator or any party interested.
Sec. 336. The public administrator must make and return a perfect
inventory of all estates taken into his possession, administer, and
account for the same according to the provisions of this Title, subject to
the control and direction of the probate court.
Sec. 337. If, at any time, letters testamentary or of administration
are regularly granted to any other person on an estate of which the
Eublic administrator has charge, he must, under the order of the pro?
ate court, account for, pay, and deliver to the executor or administra
tor thus appointed, all the money, property, papers, and estate of every
kind, in his possession or under his control.
Sec. 338. All civil officers must inform the public administrator of
all property known to them, belonging to a decedent, which is liable to
loss, injury, or waste, and which, by reason thereof, ought to be in
the possession of the public administrator.
Sec. 339. The public administrator must institute all suits and
prosecutions necessary to recover the property, debts, papers, or other
estate of the decedent.
Sec. 340. When the public administrator complains to the probate
judge, on oath, that any person has concealed, embezzled, or disposed
of, or has in his possession any money, goods, property or effects, to
the possession of which such administrator is entitled in his official
capacity, the judge may cite such person to appear before the probate
court, and examine him on oath touching the matter of such com
plaint.
Sec. 341. All such interrogations and answers must be reduced to
writing and signed by the party examined, and filed in the probate
court. If the person so cited refuses to appear and submit to such an
examination, or to answer such interrogatories as may be put to him
touching the matter of such complaint, the court may commit him to
the county jail, there to remain in close custody until he submits to the
order of the court.
Sec. 342. The probate court may, at any time, order the public ad
ministrator to account for and deliver all the money and property of
an estate in his hands to the heirs, or to the executors or administra
tors regularly appointed.
Sec. 343. The public administrator must, once in every six months,
make to the probate judge, under oath, a return of all estates of dece
dents which have come into his hands, the value of the same, the
money which has come into his hands from such estate, and what he
has done with it, and the amount of his fees and expenses incurred,
and the balance, it any, remaining in his hands, publish the same six
times in some newspaper in the county, or, if there is none, then post
the same, legibly written or printed, in the office of the county clerk of
the county.
Sec. 344. It is the duty of every public administrator, as soon as
he shall receive the same, to deposit with the county treasurer of the
county in which the probate proceedings are pending, all moneys of the
estate not required for the current expenses of the administration ; and
such moneys may be drawn upon the order of the executor or adminis
trator, countersigned by the probate judge, when required for the pur
poses of administration. It shall be the duty of the county treasurer to
receive and safely keep all such moneys and pay them out upon the or
der of the executor or administrator, when countersigned by the probate
judge, and not otherwise, and to keep an account with each estate of
all moneys received and paid to him ; and the county treasurer shall be
allowed one per cent, upon all moneys received and kept by him, and
no greater fees for any services herein provided. The money thus de
posited may, upon order of the probate court, be invested, pending the
proceedings, in securities of the United States, or if this Territory, when
such investment is deemed by the court to be for the best interests of
the estate. After a final settlement of the affairs of any estate, if there
be no heirs or other claimants thereof, the county treasurer shall pay
into the Territorial treasury all moneys and effects in his hands belong
ing to the estate, upon order of the probate court, and if any such moneys
and effects escheat to the Territory, they must be disposed of as other
escheated estates.
Sec. 345. The public administrator must not be interested in
expenditures of any kind made on account of any estate he adminis
ters ; nor must he be associated, in business or otherwise, with any one
who is so interested, and he must so attach to his report and publica
tion, made in accordance with the preceding section, his affidavit to that
effect.
Sec. 346. Public administrators are required to account, under oath,
and to settle and adjust their accounts, relating to the care and dis
bursement of money or property belonging to estates in their hands,
with the county clerks of their respective counties, on the first Monday
in each month ; and they must pay to the Territorial treasurer any
money remaining in their hands, of an estate unclaimed, as provided
in sections 308 to 311, both inclusive.
Sec. 347. When it appears from the returns made in pursuance of
the foregoing sections, that any money remains in the hands of the
public administrator (after final settlement of the estate), unclaimed,
which should be paid over to the Territorial treasurer, the probate
judge must order the same to be paid over to the Territorial treasurer,
and, on failure of the public administrator to comply with the order
within ten days after the same is made, the district attorney for the coun
ty must immediately institute the requisite legal proceedings, against
the public administrator, for a judgment against him and the sureties
on his official bond, in the amount of money so withheld, and costs.
Sec. 348. The fees of all officers chargeable to • estates in the hands
of public administrators must be paid out of the assets thereof so soon
as the same come into his hands.
Sec. 349. Public administrators may administer oaths in regard to
all matters touching the discharge of their duties or the administration
of estates in their hands.
Sec. 350. When no direction is given in this chapter for the govern
ment or guidance of a public administrator in the discharge of his du
ties, or for the administration of an estate in his hands, the provisions of
the preceding chapters of this Title must govern.
CHAPTER XIV.
ARTICLE I.
GUARDIANS OF MINORS.
Sec. 351. Petition and notice to appoint a guardian for a minor.
Sec. 352. When judge may appoint and minor nominate.
Sec. 353. When judge shall nave exclusive right to appoint.
Sec. 354. Upon arriving at fourteen, minor may choose, subject to ap
proval ofjudge.
Sec. 355. Father or mother; when entitled to be guardian.
Sec. 356. When appointed guardian to have custody and tuition of his
ward.
Sec. 357. For what length of time guardian to have charge.
Sec. 358. Bond of guardian; conditions of; oath.
Sec. 359. By consent, judge may impose further conditions on guardian.
Sec. 360. Letters, bond, certificates, etc., to be recorded.
Sec. 361. Maintenance of minor while father liviiiq.
Sec. 362. Powers and duties of testamentary guardian modified by will.
Sec. 363. Power of courts to appoint guardian ad litem not impaired.
Sec. 351. The probate judge of each county, when it appears neces
sary or convenient, may appoint guardians for the persons and estates,
or either, or both of them, of minors who have no guardian legally ap
pointed by will, or deed, and who are inhabitants or residents of the
county, or who reside without the Territory and have estate within the
county. Such appointment may be made on the petition of a relative
or other person in behalf of such minor. Before making such appoint
ment the judge must cause such notice as he deems reasonable to be
given to the relatives of the minor residing in the county, and to any
person having care of such minor.
Sec. 852. If the minor is under the age of fourteen years, the pro
bate judge may nominate and appoint his gurdian. If he is above the
age of fourteen years, he may nominate his own guardian, who, if ap
proved by the judge, must be appointed accordingly.
Sec. 358. If the guardian nominated by the minor is not approved
by the judge, or, if the minor resides out of the Territory, or if after
being duly cited by the judge, he neglects for ten days to nominate a
suitable person, the judge may nominate and appoint the guardian in
the same manner as if the minor were under the age of fourteen years.
Sec. 854. When a guardian has been appointed by the court for a
minor under the age of fourteen years, the minor, at any time after he
attains that age, may appoint his own guardian, subject to the approval
of the probate judge.
Sec. 351. The father of the minor, if living, and, in case of his
decease, the mother, while she remains unmarried, being themselves
respectively competent to transact their own business, and not other
wise unsuitable, must be entitled to the guardianship of the minor.
Sec. 856. If the minor has no father or mother living, competent to
have the custody and care of his education, the guardian appointed
shall have the custody and tuition of his ward.
Sec. 357. Every guardian appointed shall have the custody and
tuition of the minor and the care and management of his estate, until
such minor arrives at the age of majority or marries, or until the guar
dian is legally discharged.
Sec. 358. Before the order appointing any person guardian under
this chapter takes effect, and before letters issue, the judge must re
quire of such person a bond to the minor, with sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the judge, and in Buch sum as he shall order, conditioned
that the guardian will faithfully execute the duties o'f his trust accord
ing to law ; and the following conditions shall form a part of such bond
without being expressed therein :
First. To make an inventory of all the estate, real and personal, of
his ward, that comes to his possession or knowledge, and to return the
same within such time as the judge may order.
Second. To dispose of and manage the estate according to law and
for the best interest of the ward, and faithfully to discharge his trust
in relation thereto, and also in relation to the care, custody, and educa
tion of the ward.
Third. To render an account, on oath, of the property, estate, and
moneys of the ward in his bands, and all proceeds or interest derived
therefrom, and of the management and disposition of the same, within
three months after his appointment, and at such other times as the
court directs, and at the expiration of his trust to settle his accounts
with the probate judge, or with the ward, if he be of full age, or his
legal representatives, and to pay over and deliver all the estate,
moneys, and effects remaining in his hands, or due from him on such
settlement, to the person or persons who are lawfully entitled thereto.
Upon filing the bond, duly approved, letters of guardianship must
issue to the person appointed. In form the letters of guardianship
must be substantially the same as letters of administration, and the
oath of the guardian must be endorsed thereon, that he will perform
the duties of his "office as such guardian according to law.
Sec. 359. When any person is appointed guardian of a minor, the
probate judge may, with the consent of such person, insert in the order
of appointment conditions otherwise obligatory, providing for the care,
treatment, education, and welfare of the minor, and to perform such
conditions is a part of the duties of the guardian,, for the faithful per
formance of which he and the sureties on his bond are responsible.
Sec. 860. All letters of guardianship issued, and all guardians'
bonds executed, under the provisions of this chapter, with the affidavits
and certificates thereon, must be recorded by the clerk of the probate
court having jurisdiction of the persons and estates of the wards.
Sec. 861. If any minor, having a father living, has property, the
income of which is sufficient for his maintenance and education in a
manner more expensive than his father can reasonably afford, regard
being had to the situation of the father's family, and to all the circum
stances of the case, the expenses of the education and maintenance of
such minor may be defrayed out of the income of his own property, in
whole or in part, as judged reasonable, and must be directed by the
probate court, and the charges therefor may be allowed accordingly, in
the settlement of the accounts of his guardian.
Sec. 8fi"2. Every testamentary guardian must give bond and qual
ify, and has the same powers and must perform the same duties, with
regard to the person and estate of his ward, as guardians appointed
by the probate court, except so far as their powers and duties are legally
modified, enlarged, or changed by the will by which such guardian was
appointed.
Sec. 863. Nothing contained in this chapter affects or impairs the
power of any court to appoint a guardian to defend the interest of any
minor interested in any suit or matter pending therein.
ARTICLE II.
GUARDIANS OF INSANE AND INCOMPETENT PERSONS.
Sec. 364. Petition for guardian; hearing and notice.
Sec. 865. Appointment of guardian ajter the hearing.
Sec. 866. Pmvcrs of guardian; restoration of ward and discharge of
guardian.
Sec. 864. When it is represented to the probate judge, upon verified
petition of any relative or friend, that any person is insane, or, from
any cause, mentally incompetent to manage his property, the judge
must cause a notice to be given to the supposed incompetent person of
the time and place of hearing the case, not less than five days before
the time so appointed, and such person, if able to attend, must be pro
duced before him on the hearing.
Sec. 865. If, after a full hearing and examination upon such peti
tion, it appears to the probate judge that the person in question is in
capable of taking care of himself and managing his property, he
must appoint a guardian of his person and estate, with the powers and
duties in this chapter specified.
Sec. 366. Every guardian appointed as provided in the preceding sec
tion has the care and custody of the person of his ward, and the man
agement of all his estate, until such guardian is legally discharged,
and he must give bond to such ward in like manner and with like con
ditions as before described with respect to the guardian of a minor.
Any person who has been declared insane, or the guardian or any
relative of such person within the third degree, or any friend, may
apply, by petition, to the probate judge of the county in which he was
declared insane, to have the fact of his restoration to capacity judic
ially determined. The petition shall be verified and shall state that
such person is then sane. • Upon receiving the petition the judge must
appoint a day for the hearing, and, if the petitioner request it, shall
order an investigation before a jury, which shall be summoned and
impannelled in the same manner as juries are summoned and impannelled
in other cases in the probate court. The judge shall cause notice
of the trial to be given to the guardian of the petitioner, if there be a
guardian, and to his or her husband or wife, if there be one, and to his
or her father or mother, if living in the county. On the trial the guar
dian or relative of the petitioner, and, in the discretion of the judge,
any other person may contest the right of the petitioner to the relief
demanded. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify as in
other cases, and may be called and examined by the judge of his own
motion. If it be found that the petitioner be of sound mind and capa
ble of taking care of himself and his property, his restoration to
capacity shall be adjudged, and the guardianship of such person, if
such person be not a minor, shall cease.
AETICLE IIL,
POWERS AND DUTIES OF GUARDIANS.
Sec. 367. Out of wliat property debts of tvard to be paid.
Sec. 368. General powers of guardian. .
Sec. 369. Must manage estate frugally, care for ward and family, and
may sell real estate.
Sec. 370. Guardian to have credit for advances, may be compelled to per
form duty; third party may supply necessaries wlien guar
dian neglects.
Sec. 371. May join in and assent to partition.
Sec. 872. Annual and semi-annual return of inventory of estate.
Sec. 873. Ayinual account of guardian.
Sec. 874. Allowance of account of joint guardians.
Sec. 875. Expenses and compensation of guardian.
Sec. 867. Every guardian appointed under the provisions of this chapter, whether for a minor or any other person, must pay all just
debts due from the ward out of his personal estate and the income
of his real estate, if sufficient ; if not, then out of his »eal estate, upon
obtaining an order for the sale thereof, and disposing of the same in
the manner provided in this Title for the sale of real estate of dece
dents.
Sec. 368. Every guardian must settle all accounts* of the ward, and
demand, sue for, and receive all debts due to him, or may, with the appro
bation of the probate judge, compound for the same, and give discharges
to the debtors on receiving a fair and just dividend of his estate and
effects ; and he must appear for and represent -his ward in all legal
suits and proceedings, unless another person is appointed for that pur
pose as guardian or next friend.
Sec. 369. Every guardian must manage the estate of his ward
frugally and without waste, and apply the income and profits thereof,
as far as may be necessary, for the comfortable and suitable mainte
nance and support of the ward and his family, if there be any ; and if
such income and profits be insufficient for that purpose, the guardian
may sell the real estate upon obtaining an order of the court therefor,
as provided, and must apply the proceeds of such sale, as far as may
be necessary, for the maintenance and support of the ward and his
family, if there be any.
Sec. 370. When a guardian has advanced for the necessary main
tenance, support, or education of his ward, an amount not dispropor
tionate to the value of his estate, or his condition of life, and the same
is made to appear to the satisfaction of the court, by proper vouchers
and proofs, the guardian must be allowed credit therefor in his settle
ments. Whenever a guardian fails, neglects, or refuses to- furnish
suitable and necessary maintenance, support, or education for his
ward, the court may order him to do so, and enforce such order by
proper process. Whenever any third person, at his request, supplies
a ward with such suitable and necessary maintenance, support, or
education, and it is shown to have been done after refusal or neglect
of the guardian to supply the same, the court may direct the guardian
to pay therefor out of the estate, and enforce such payment by due
process.
Sec. 371. The guardian may join in and assent to a partition of the
real estate of the ward whenever such assent may be given by any
person.
Sec. 372. Every guardian must return to the probate court an
inventory of the estate of his ward within three months after his
appointment, and annually thereafter. When the value of the estate
exceeds the sum of twenty thousand dollars, semi-annual returns must
be made to the probate court. The probate court may, upon applica
tion made for that purpose by any person, compel the guardian to
render an account to the probate court of the estate of his ward.
The inventories and accounts so to be returned or rendered must be
sworn to by the guardian. All the. estate of the ward, described in the
first inventory, must be appraised by appraisers appointed, sworn,
and acting in the manner provided for regulating the settlement of
the estate of decedents ; such inventory, with the appraisement of
the property therein described, must be recorded by the clerk of the
probate court in a proper book kept in his office for that purpose.
Whenever any property of the estate of any ward is discovered, not
included in the inventory of the estate already returned, and whenever
any other propesty has been succeeded to or acquired by any ward for
his benefit, the like proceedings must be had for- the return and
appraisement thereof that are herein provided in relation to the first
inventory and return.
Sec. 373. The" guardian must, upon the expiration of a year from
the time of appointment, and as often thereafter as he may be required,
present his account to the probate court for settlement and allowance.
Sec. 374. When an account is rendered by two or more joint
guardians, - the probate judge may, in his discretion, allow the sum
upon the oath of any of them.
Sec. 375. Every guardian must be allowed the amount of his rea
sonable expenses incurred in the execution of his trust, and he must
also have such compensation for his services as the court in which his
accounts are settled deemed just and reasonable.
ARTICLE IV.
THE SALE OF PROPERTY AND DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
Sec. 376. When real or personal estate may be sold.
Sec. 377. When guardian may procure an order to sell real estate.
Sec. 378. Application of the proceeds of sales.
Sec. 379. Investment of proceeds.
Sec. 380. Petition of guardian for order of sale.
Sec. 381. Order for next of kin to appear and show cause why sale should
not be made.
SV?c.-382. Service of order to show cause; when not essential.
Sjc 383. Hearing of petition.
Sec. 384. Examination and attendance of witnesses.
Sec. 385. Costs; how awarded when party olrjects.
Sec. 386. Order of sale, either public or private.
Sec. 387. Prior to sale, guardian to give bond.
Sec. 388. Proceedings, unless otherwise provided in this chapter, to be
governed by probate act.
Sec. 389. Limitation of order of sale.
Sec. 390. Terms of salts and security on deferred payments.
Sec. 391. Moneys may be ordered invested on application of guardian or
interested party.
Sec. 376. When the income of an estate under guardianship is
insufficient to maintain the ward and his family, or to maintain and
educate the ward, when a minor, his guardian may sell his real or
personal estate for that purpose, upon obtaining an order therefor.
Sec. 377. When it appears to the satisfaction of the court, upon
the petition of the guardian, that for the benefit of his ward his real
estate, or some part thereof, should be sold, and the proceeds thereof
put out at interest, or invested in some productive stock, or in the
improvement or security of any other real estate of the ward, his
guardian may sell the same for such purpose, upon obtaining an order
therefor.
Sec. 878. If the estate is sold for the purposes mentioned in this article, the guardian must apply the proceeds of the sale to such
purposes as far as necessary, and put out the residue, if any, on interest,
or invest it in the best manner in nis power, until the capital is wanted
for the maintenance of the ward and his family, or the education of
his children, or for the education of the ward, when a minor, in which
case the capital may be used for that purpose, as far as may be neces
sary, in like manner as if it had been personal estate of the ward.
Sec. 879. If the estate is sold for the purpose of putting out or
investing the proceeds, the guardian must make the investment accord
ing to his best judgment, or in pursuance of any 'order that maybe
made by the probate court.
Sec. 880. To obtain an order for such sale the guardian must
present to the probate court of the county in which he was appointed
guardian a verified petition therefor, setting forth the condition of the
estate of his ward, and the facts and circumstances on which the peti
tion is founded, tending to show the necessity or expediency of a sale.
Sec. 381. If it appear to the court or judge, from the petition, that
it is necessary or would be beneficial to the ward that the real estate,
or some part of it, should be sold, or that the real and personal estate
should be sold, the court or judge must thereupon make an order direct
ing the next of kin of the ward, and all persons interested in the estate,
to appear before the court at a time and place therein specified, not
less than four, nor more than eight weeks from the time of making
such order, to show cause why an order should not be granted for the
sale of such estate. If it appear that it is necessary, or would be
heneficial to the ward, to sell the personal estate or some part of it, the
court must order the sale to be made.
Sec. 882. A copy of the order must be personally served on the
next of kin of the ward, and all persons interested in the estate, at least
fourteen days before the hearing of the petition, or must be published
at least three successive weeks m a newspaper published in the county,
or if there be none printed in the county, then in such newspaper as
may be specified by the court or judge in the order. If written consent
to making the order of sale is subscribed by all persons interested
therein, and the next of kin,- notice need not be served or published.
Sec. 888. The probate court, at the time and place appointed in the
order, or such other time to which the hearing is postponed, upon proof
of the service or publication of the order, must hear and examine the
proof and allegations of the petitioner and of the next of kin, and of all
other persons interested in the estate who oppose the application.
Sec. 884. On the hearing the guardian may be examined on oath,
and witnesses may be produced and examined by either party, and pro
cess to compel their attendance and testimony may be issued by the
probate court or judge, in the same manner and with like effect as in
other cases provided for in this Title.
Sec. 385. If any person appears and objects to the granting of any
order prayed for under the provisions of this article,- and it appears to
the court that either the petition or the objection thereto is sustained,
the court may, in granting or refusing the order, award costs to the
party prevailing, and enforce the payment thereof.
Sec. 886. If, after a full examination, it appears necessary, or for
the benefit of the ward, that his real estate, or some part thereof, should
be sold, the court may grant an order therefor, specifying therein the
causes or reasons why the sale is necessary or beneficial, and may, if
the same has been prayed for in the petition, order such sale to be
made, either at public or private sale.
Sec. 387. Every guardian, authorized to sell real estate must, before
the sale, give bond to the probate judge, with sufficient surety, to be
approved by him, with conditions to sell the same in the manner, and
to account for the proceeds of the sale, as provided for in this chapter
and Chapter VII of this Title.
Sec. 388. All the proceedings under the petitions of guardians for
sales of property of their wards, giving notice, and the hearing of such
petitions, granting or refusing the order of sale, directing the sale to be
made at public or private sale, reselling the same property, return of
sale and application for confirmation thereof, notice and hearing of
such application, making orders, rejecting or confirming sales, and
reports of sales, ordering and making conveyances of property sold,
accounting and the settlements of accounts, must be had and made as
required by the provisions of this Title concerning estates of decedents
unless otherwise specially provided in this chapter.
Sec. 389. No order of sale granted in pursuance of this article con
tinues in force more than one year after granting the same, without a
sale being had.
Sec. 390. All sales of real estate of wards must be for cash, or for
part cash and part deferred payments not to exceed three years, bear
ing date from date of sale, as in the discretion of the probate judge is
most beneficial to the ward. Guardians making sales must demand
and receive from the purchasers bond and mortgage on the real estate
sold, with such additional security as the judge deems necessary, and
sufficient to secure the faithful payment of the deferred payments and
the interest thereon.
Sec. 391. The probate court, on the application of a guardian or
any person interested in the estate of any ward, after such notice to
persons interested therein as the probate judge shall direct, may
authorize and require the guardian to invest the proceeds of sales, and
any other of his ward's money in his hands, in real estate or in any
other manner most to the interest of all concerned therein ; and the
probate court may make such other orders, and give such directions as
are needful for the management, investment, and disposition of the
estate and effects as circumstances require.
Sec. 892. When a person liable to be put under guardianship,
according to the provisions of this chapter, resides without this Terri
tory and has estate therein, any friend of such person, or any one inter
ested in his estate, in expectancy or otherwise, may apply to the
probate judge of any county in which there is any estate of such absent
person, for the appointment of a guardian ; and if, after notice given to
all interested, in such manner as the judge orders, and a full hearing
and examination, it appears proper, a guardian for such absent person
may be appointed.
Sec. 898. Every guardian appointed under the preceding section has
the same powers and performs the same duties with respect to the
estate of the ward found within this Territory, and with respect to the
person of the ward, if he shall have come to reside therein, as are pre
scribed with respect to any other guardian appointed under this chapter.
Sec. 394. Every guardian must give bond to the ward in the man
ner and with the like conditions as hereinbefore provided for other
guardians, except that the provisions respecting the inventory, the dis
posal of the estate and effects, and the account to be rendered by the
guardian, must be confined to such estate and effects as come to his
hands in this Territory.
Sec. 395. The guardianship which is first lawfully granted of any
person residing out of this Territory, extends to all the estate of the
ward within the same, and excludes the jurisdiction of the probate
court of every other county.
Sec. 896. When the guardian and ward are both non-residents, and
the ward is entitled to property in this Territory which may be removed
to another State or Territory or foreign country, without conflict with
any restriction or limitation thereupon, or impairing the right of the
ward thereto, such property may be removed to the State or Territory
or foreign country of the residence of the ward, upon the application of
the guardian to the probate judge of the county in which the estate of
the ward, or the principal part thereof, is situated.
Sec. 397. The application must be made upon ten days notice to
the resident executor, administrator, or guardian, if there be such, and,
upon such application, the non-resident guardian must produce and file
a certificate, under the hand of the clerk, and seal of the court from
which his appointment was derived, showing :
First. A transcript of the record of his appointment.
Second. That he has entered upon the discharge of his duties.
Third. That he is entitled, by the laws of the State or Territory of
his appointment, to the possession of the estate of his ward ; or, must
produce and file a certificate, under the hand and seal of the clerk of
the court having jurisdiction in the country of his residence of the
estates of persons under guardianship, or of the highest court of such
country, that, by the laws of such country, the applicant is entitled to
the custody of the estate of his ward without the appointment of any
court.
Upon such application, unless good cause to the contrary is shown,
the probate judge must make an order granting to such guardian leave
to take and remove the property of his ward to the State or place of
his residence, which is authority to him to sue for and receive the same
in his own name, for the use and benefit of his ward.
Sec. 398. Such order is a discharge of the executor, administrator,
local guardian, or other person in whose possession the property may
be at the time the order is made, on filing with the probate court the
receipt therefor, of the guardian of such absent ward.
ARTICLE VI.
GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
Sec. 399. Examination of persons suspected of concealing or embezzling
property of ward.
Sec. 400. Of removal and resignation of guardians.
Sec. 401. Guardianship; }iow terminated.
Sec. 402. When new bond given and sureties discharged.
Sec. 403. Guardian's bond filed and breach of, prosecuted .
Sec. 404. Limitation of action on guardian's bond.
Sec. 405. Limitation of action to recover estate sold by guardian.
Sec. 406. More than one guardian may be appointed.
Sec. 407. Power of probate judge at chambers.
Sec. 408. Justification of sureties.
Sec. 399. Upon complaint made to him by any guardian, ward,
creditor, or other person interested in the estate, or having a prospec
tive interest therein as heir or otherwise, against any one suspected of
having concealed, embezzled, orconveyed away any of the money, goods,
or effects, or an instrument in writing belonging to the ward, or to his
estate, the probate judge may cite such suspected person to appear
before him, and may examine and proceed with him on such charge in
the manner provided in this Title with respect to persons suspected of,
and charged with, concealing or embezzling the effects of decedent.
Sec. 400. When a guardian, appointed either by the testator or the
Erobate judge becomes insane or otherwise incapable of discharging
is trust, or unsuitable therefor, or has wasted or mismanaged the
estate, or failed for thirty days to render an account or make a return,
the probate court may, upon such notice to the guardian as the court
may require, remove him, and compel him to surrender the estate of
the ward to the person found to be lawfully entitled thereto. Every
guardian may resign, when it appears proper to allow the same; and
upon the resignation or removal of a guardian, as herein provided, the
probate court, or the judge thereof, may appoint another in the place
of the guardian who has resigned or has been removed.
Sec. 401. The marriage of a minor ward terminates the guardian
ship, and the guardian of an insane or other person may be discharged
by the probate judge when it appears to him, on the application of the
ward or otherwise, that the guardianship is no longer necessary.
Sec. 402. The probate judge may require a new bond to be given
by a guardian whenever he deems it necessary, and may discharge the
existing sureties from further liability, after due notice given as he may
direct, when it shall appear that no injury can result therefrom to those
interested in the estate.
Sec. 403. Every bond given by a guardian must be filed and pre
served in the office of the clerk of the probate court of the county, and
in case of a breach of a condition thereof, may be prosecuted for the
use and«benefit of the ward, or of any person interested in the estate.
Sec. 404. No action can be maintained against the sureties on any
bond given by a guardian unless it be commenced within three years
from the discharge or removal of the guardian ; but if at the time of
the discharge or removal of the guardian the person entitled to bring
such action is under any legal disability to sue, the action may be com
menced at any time within three years after such disability is re
moved.
Sec. 405. No action for the recovery of any estate, sold by a guar
dian, can be maintained by the ward, or by any person claiming under
him, unless it is commenced within three years next after the termina
tion of the guardianship, or when a legal disability to sue exists by
reason of minority or otherwise, at the time when the cause of action
accrues, within three years next after the removal thereof.
Sec. 406. The court, in its discretion, whenever necessary, may
appoint more than one guardian of any person subject to guardian
ship, who must give bond and be governed and liable in all respects as
a sole guardian.
Sec. 407. The power conferred upon the probate judge in relation
to guardians and wards may be exercised by him at chambers, or as
the act of the probate court, when holding such court ; and any order
appointing a guardian must be entered as, and become, a decree of
the court. The provisions of this Title relative ■ to the estates of dece
dents, so far as they relate to the practice in the probate or district
courts, applies to proceedings under this chapter.
Sec. 408. The provisions of the Civil Practice Act relating to the
justification of sureties, are hereby declared to apply to guardians
appointed by the court, and to the bonds taken or to be taken from
such guardians, and to the sureties on such bonds.
Sec. 409. A guardian is a person appointed to take care of the per
son or property of another.
Sec. 410. The person over whom or over whose property a guar
dian is appointed is called his ward.
Sec. 411. Guardians are either general or special.
Sec. 412. A general guardian is the guardian of the person or of all
the property of the ward within this Territory, or both.
Sec. 413. Every other is a special guardian.
Sec. 414. A guardian of the person or estate, or of both, of a child
born, or likely to be born, may be appointed by will or by deed, to take
effect upon the death of the parent appointing :
First. If the child be legitimate, by the father, with the written con
sent of the mother, or by either parent, if the other be dead or incapa
ble of consent.
Second. If the child be illegitimate, by the mother.
Sec. 415. No person, whether a parent or otherwise, has any power
as guardian of property, except by appointment as hereinafter pro
vided.
Sec. 416. A guardian of the person or property, or both, of a per
son residing in this Territory, who is a minor, or of unsound mind,
may be appointed in all cases other than those named in sections 351,
364, and 392, by the probate court, as provided in the Code of Civil
Procedure.
Sec. 417. A guardian of the property within this Territory of a
person not residing therein, who is a minor, or of unsound mind, may
be appointed by the probate court.
Sec. 418. In all cases the court first making the appointment of a
guardian has the exclusive jurisdiction to control him.
Sec. 419. In awarding the custody of a minor, or in appointing a
general guardian, the court or officer is to be guided by the following
considerations :
First. By what appears to be for the best interest of the child in
respect to its temporal and its mental and moral welfare ; and, if the
child be of a sufficient age to form an intelligent preference, the court
may consider that preference in determining the question.
Second. As between parents adversely claiming the custody or
guardianship, neither parent is entitled to it as of right ; but, other
things being equal, if the child is of tender years, it should be given
to the mother ; if it be of an age to require education and preparation
for labor or business, then to the father.
Third. Of two persons equally entitled to the custody in other
respects, preference is to be given as follows :
1. To a parent.
2. To one who was indicated by the wishes of a deceased parent.
3. To one who already stands in the position of a trustee of a fund
to be applied to the child's support.
4. To a relative.
Sec. 420. A guardian appointed by a court has power over the per
son and property of the ward, unless otherwise ordered.
Sec. 421. A guardian of the person is charged with the custody of
the ward, and must look to his support, health, and education. He
may fix the residence of the ward at any place in this Territory, but
not elsewhere, without permission of the court.
Sec. 422. A guardian of the property must keep safely the prop
erty of his ward. He must not permit any unnecessary waste or
destruction of the real property, nor make any sale of such property
without the order of the probate court, but must, so far as it is in his
power, maintain the same, with its buildings and appurtenances, out
of the income or other property of the estate, and deliver it to the
ward at the close of his guardianship, in as good condition as he
received it.
Sec. 423. The relation of guardian and ward is confidential, and is
subject to trusts at common law.
Sec. 424. In the management and disposition of the person or
property committed to him, a guardian may be regulated and con
trolled by the court.
Sec. 425. On the death of one of two or more joint guardians, the
power continues to the survivor, until a further appointment is made
by the court.
Sec. 42 !. A guardian may be removed by the probate court for any
of the following causes :
First. For abuse of his trust.
Second. For continued failure to perform its duties.
Third. For incapacity to perform its duties.
Fourth. For gross immorality.
Fifth. For having an interest averse to the faithful performance of
his duties.
Sixth. For removal from the Territory.
Seventh. In the case of a guardian of the property, for insolvency ; or,
Eighth. When it is no longer proper that the ward should be under
guardianship.
Sec. 427. The power of a guardian appointed by a parent is
superseded :
First. By his removal, as provided in the preceding section ;
Seeond. By a solemnized marriage of the ward ; or,
Third. By the ward's attaining majority.
Sec. 428. The power of a guardian appointed by a court is sus
pended only :
First By order of the court ; or,
Second. If the appointment was made solely because of the ward's
minority, by his attaining majority ; or,
Third. The guardianship over the ward, by the marriage of the
ward.
Sec. 429. After a ward has come to his majority, he may settle
accounts with his guardian, and give him a release, which is valid if
obtained fairly and without undue influence.
Sec. 430. A guardian appointed by the court is not entitled to his
discharge until one year after the ward's majority.
Sec. 431. Any ward of unsound mind may be placed, in an asylum
for such person, upon the order of the probate judge of the county in
which he resides, as follows :
First. The judge must be satisfied by the oath of two reputable
physicians that such person is of unsound mind and unfit to be at large.
Second. Before granting the order the judge must examine the
person himself ; or, if that is impracticable, cause him to be examined
by an impartial person.
Third. After the order is granted, the person alleged to be of
unsound mind, his or her husband or wife, or relative to the third
degree, may demand an investigation before a jury, which must be
conducted in all respects as under an inquisition of lunacy.
When an infant is a party, he must appear either by his general
guardian, if he have one, or by a guardian appointed by the justice, as
follows :
First. If the infant be plaintiff, the appointment must be made
before the summons is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he
be of the age of fourteen years ; if under that age, upon the applica
tion of a relative or friend.
Second. If the infant be defendant, the guardian must be appointed
at the time the summons is returned, or before the answer. It is the
right of the infant to nominate his own guardian, if the infant be over
fourteen years of age ; otherwise the justice must make the appoint
ment.
Sec. 432. Every person over the age of eighteen years, of sound
mind, may, by last will, dispose of all his estate, real and personal, and
such estate not disposed of by will is subject to succession, as provided
for by Chapter XIX of this Act, as the estate of an intestate, being
chargeable in both cases with the payment of all the decedent's debts,
as provided in this act.
Sec. 483. A person having an insane delusion is incompetent to
make a will.
Sec. 484. A will or part of a will, procured to be made by duress,
menace, fraud, or undue influence, may be denied probate ; and a
revocation, procured by the same means, may be declared void.
Sec. 485. A married woman may dispose of all her separate estate
by will, without the consent of her husband, and may alter or revoke
the will in like manner as if she were single. Her will must be
executed and proved in like manner as other wills.
Sec. 486. Every estate and interest in real or personal property to
which heirs, husband, widow, or next of kin might succeed, may be
disposed of by will, except as otherwise provided in sections 188 to 140,
both inclusive.
Sec. 487. A testamentary disposition may be made to any person
capable by law of taking the property so disposed of, except corpora
tions Other than those formed for scientific, literary, or solely educa
tional purposes, can not take under a will, unless expressly authorized
by statute.
Sec. 438. Every will, other than a nuncupative will, must be in
writing ; and every will, other than an olographic will and a nuncupa
tive will, must be executed and attested, as follows :
First. It must be subscribed at the end thereof by the testator him
self, or some person in l}is presence, and, by his direction, must
subscribe his name thereto.
Second. The subscription must be made in the presence of each of
the attesting witnesses, or be acknowledged by the testator to them to
have been made by him or by his authority.
Third. The testator must, at the time of subscribing or acknowl
edging the same, declare to the attesting witnesses that the instrument
is his will ; and,
Fourth. There must be two attesting witnesses, each of whom must
sign his name as a witness at the end of the will, at the testator's
request and in his presence.
Sec. 439. An olographic will is one that is entirely written, dated
and signed by the hand of the testator himself ; it is subject to no
other form, and may be made in or out of this Territory, and need not
be witnessed.
Sec. 440. A witness to a written will must write, with his name, his
place of residence ; and a person who subscribes the testator's name
by his direction, must write his own name as a witness to the will.
But a violation of this section does not affect the validity of the will.
Sec. 441. A conjoint or mutua.1 will is valid ; but it may be revoked
by any of the testators, in like manner with any other will.
Sec. 442. If the subscribing witnesses to a will are competent at the
time of attesting its execution, their subsequent incompetency, from
whatever cause it may arise, does not prevent the probate and allow
ance of the will, if it is otherwise satisfactorily provided.
Sec. 443. A will, the validity of which is made by its own terms
conditional, may be denied probate, according to the event, with refer
ence to the conditions.
Sec. 444. All beneficial devises, legacies and gifts whatever, made
or given in any will to a subscribing witness thereto, are void, unless
there are two other competent subscribing witnesses to the same ; but
a mere charge on the estate of a testator for the payment of debts does
not prevent his creditors from being competent witnesses to his will.
Sec. 445. If a witness to whom any beneficial devise, legacy or
gift, void by the preceding section, is made, would have been entitled
to any share of the estate of the testator, in case the will should not
be established, he succeeds to so much of the share as would be dis
tributed to him, not exceeding the devise or bequest made to him in
the will ; and he may recover the sanie of the other devisees or lega
tees named in the will, in proportion to and out of the parts devised or
bequeathed to them.
Sec. 446. A will of real or personal property, or both, or a revoca
tion thereof, made out of this Territory by a person not having his
domicile in this Territory, is as valid when executed according to the
law of the place in which the same was made, or in which the testator
was at the time domiciled, as if it were made in this Territory, and
according to the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 447. Whenever a will or a revocation thereof is duly executed
according to the law of the place in which the same was made, or in
•which the testator was at the time domiciled, the same is regulated, as
to the validity of its execution, by the law of such place, notwithstand
ing the testator subsequently changed his domicile to a place by the
law of which such will would be void.
Sec. 448. The execution of a codicil referring to a previous will has
the effect to republish the will, as modified by the codicil.
Sec. 449. A nuncupative will is not required to be in writing, nor to
he declared or attested with any formalities.
Sec. 450. To make a nuncupative will valid, and to entitle it to be
admitted to probate, the following requisites must be observed :
First. The estate bequeathed must not exceed in value the sum of
one thousand dollars.
Second. It must be proved by two witnesses who were present at the
making thereof, one of whom was asked by the testator, at the time, to
bear witness that such was his will, or to that effect.
Third. The decedent must, at the time, have been in actual military
service in the field, or doing duty on shipboard at sea, and, in either
case, in actual contemplation, fear or peril of death ; or the decedent
must have been at the time in expectation of immediate death from an
injury received the same day.
Sec. 451. No proof must be received of any nuncupative will unless
it is offered within six months after speaking the testamentary words,
nor unless the words or the substance thereof were reduced to writing
•within thirty days after they were spoken.
Sec. 452. No probate of any nuncupative will must be granted for
fourteen days after the death of the testator ; nor must any nuncupa
tive will be at any time proved unless the testamentary words or the
substance thereof be first committed to writing and process issued to
call in the widow or other persons interested, to contest the probate of
such will, if they think proper.
Sec. 458. Except in cases in this chapter mentioned, no written
•will nor any part thereof can be revoked or altered otherwise than :
First. By a written will or other writing of the testator, declaring
such revocation or alteration, and executed with the same formalities
-with which a will should be executed by such testator ; or,
Second. By being burnt, torn, cancelled, obliterated or destroyed,
with the intent and for the purpose of revoking the same, by the testa
tor himself, or by some person in his presence, and by his direction.
Sec. 454. When a will is cancelled or destroyed by any other person
than the testator, the direction of the testator, and the fact of such
injury or destruction, must be proved by two witnesses.
Sec. 455. The revocation of a will executed in duplicate may be
made by revoking one of the duplicates.
Sec. 456. A prior will is not revoked by a subsequent will, unless
the latter contains an express revocation or provision wholly inconsis
tent with the terms of the former will ; but in other cases the prior will
remains effectual so far as consistent with the provisions of the subse
quent will.
Sec. 457. If, after making a will, the testator duly makes and
executes a second will, the destruction, cancellation or revocation of
such second will does not revive the first will, unless it appears by the
terms of such revocation that it was the intention to revive and give
effect to the first will, or, unless, after such destruction, cancellation or
revocation, the first will is duly republished.
Sec. 458. If, after having made a will, the testator marries and has
issue of such marriage, born either in his lifetime or after his death,
and the wife or issue survives him, the will is revoked, unless provi
sions have been made for such issue by some settlement, or, unless such
issue is provided for in the will, or in such way mentioned therein as
to show an intention not to make such provision ; and no other evi
dence to rebut the presumption of such revocation can be received.
Sec. 459. If, after making a will, the testator marries, and the wife
survives the testator, the will is revoked, unless provision has been
made for her by marriage contract, or unless she is provided in the
will, or in such way mentioned therein, as to show an intention not to
make such provision ; and no other evidence to rebut the presumption
of revocation must be received.
Sec. 460. A will executed by an unmarried woman is revoked by
her subsequent marriage, and is not revived by the death of her hus- .
band.
Sec. 461. An agreement made by a testator for the sale or transfer
of property disposed of by a will previously made, does not revoke such
disposal, but the property passes by the will, subject to the same reme
dies on the testator's agreement for a specific performance, or other
wise, against the devisees or legatees, as might be had against the tes
tator's successors, if the same had passed by succession.
Sec. 462. A charge of incumbrance upon any estate for the purpose
or securing payment of money, or the performance of any covenant or
agreement, is not a revocation of any will relating to the same estate
which was previously executed; but the devise and legacies therein
contained must pass, subject to such charge or incumbrance.
Sec. 468. A conveyance, settlement, or other act of a testator by
which his interest in a thing previously disposed of by his will is altered,
but not wholly divested, is not a revocation ; but the will passes the prop
erty which would otherwise devolve by succession.
Sec. 464. If the instrument by which an alteration is made of the
testator's interest in a thing previously disposed of by his will, expresses
his intent that it shall be a revocation, or if it contains provisions
wholly inconsistent with the terms and nature of the testamentary dis
position, it operates as a revocation thereof, unless such inconsistent
provisions depend on a condition or contingency by reason of which
they do not take effect.
Sec. 465. The revocation of a bill revokes all its codicils.
Sec. 466. Whenever a testator has a child born after the making of
his will, either in his lifetime or after his death, and dies leaving such
child unprovided for by any settlement, and neither provided for, nor
in any way mentioned in his will, the child succeeds to the same portion
of the testator's real and personal property that he would have suc
ceeded to if the testator had died intestate.
Sec. 467. When a testator omits to provide in his will for any of his
children, or for the issue of any deceased child, unless it appears that
such omission was intentional, such child, or the issue of such child.
must have the same share in the estate of the testator as if he had died
intestate, and succeeds thereto as provided in the preceding section.
Sec. 4G8. When any share of the estate of the testator is assigned
to a child born after the making of a will, or to a child or to the issue
of a child omitted in the will, as hereinbefore mentioned, the same must
first be taken from the estate not disposed of by the will, if any ; if that
is not sufficient, so much as may be necessary must be taken from all
the devisees or legatees in proportion to the value they may respect
ively receive under the will, unless the obvious intention of the testator
in relation to some specific devise or bequest, or other provision in the
will would thereby be defeated ; in such case such specific devise, legacy,
or provision may be exempted from such apportionment, and a different
apportionment, consistent with the intention of the testator, may be
adopted.
Sec. 469. If such children, or their descendants, so unprovided for,
had an equal proportion of the testator's estate bestowed on them in
the testator's lifetime by way of advancement, they take nothing in vir
tue of the provisions of the three preceding sections.
Sec. 470. When any estate is devised to any child or other relation
of the testator, and the devisee dies before the testator, leaving lineal
descendants, such descendants take the estate so given by the will, in
the same manner as the devisee would have done had he survived the
testator.
Sec. 471. Every devise of land in any will conveys all the estate of
the devisor therein, which he could lawfully devise, unless it clearly
appears by the will that he intended to convey a less estate.
Sec. 472. Any estate, right, or interest in lands acquired by the tes
tator after the making of his will, passes thereby, and in like manner
as if title thereto was vested in him at the time of making the will, un
less the contrary manifestly appears by the will to have been the inten
tion of the testator. Every will made in express terms devising, or in
any other terms denoting the intent of the testator to devise all the real
estate of such testator, passes all the real estate which such testator
was entitled to devise at the time of his decease.
Sec. 473. No estate, real or personal, shall be bequeathed or devised
to any charitable or benevolent society or corporation, or to any per
son or persons in trust for charitable uses, except the same be done by
will, duly executed at least thirty days before the decease of the testa
tor ; and if so made, at least thirty days prior to such death, such de
vise or legacy, and each of them, shall be valid : Provided, That no
such devises or bequests shall collectively exceed one-third of the estate
of the testator, leaving legal heirs, and in such case a pro rata deduc
tion from such devises or bequests shall be made so as to reduce
the aggregate thereof to one-third of such estate ; and all dispositions
of property made contrary hereto shall be void, and go to the residuary
legatee or devisee, next of kin, or heirs, according to law.
Sec. 474. A will is to be construed according to the intention of the
testator. When his intentions can not have effect to its full extent, it
must have effect as far as possible.
Sec. 475. In case of uncertainty arising upon the face of a will as
to the application of any of its provisions, the testator's intention is to
be ascertained from the words of the will, taking into view the circum
stances under which it was made, exclusive of his oral declarations.
Sec. 476. In interpreting a will, subject to the law of this Territory,
the rules prescribed by the following sections of this chapter are to be
observed, unless an intention to the contrary clearly appears.
Sec. 477. Several testamentary instruments, executed by the same
testatator, are to be taken and construed together as one instrument.
Sec. 478. All the parts of a will are to be construed in relation to
each other, and so as, if possible, to form one consistant whole ; but
where several parts are absolutely irreconcilable the latter must pre
vail.
Sec. 479. A clear and distinct devise or bequest can not be affected
by any reasons assigned therefor, or by any other words not equally
clear and distinct, or by inference or argument from other parts of the
will, or by an inaccurate recital of, or reference to, its contents in
another part of the will.
Sec. 480. Where the meaning of any part of a will is ambiguous or
doubtful, it may be explained by any reference thereto, or recital
thereof, in another part of the will.
Sec. 481. The words of a will are to be taken in their ordinary and
gramatical sense, unless a clear intention to use them in another sense
can be collected, and that other can be ascertained.
Sec. 482. The words of a will are to receive an interpretation which
will give to every expression some effect, rather than one which will
render any of the expressions inoperative.
Sec. 483. Of two modes of interpreting a will, that is to be pre
ferred which will prevent a total intestacy.
Sec. 484. Technical words in a will are to be taken in their technical
sense, unless the context clearly indicates a contrary intention.
Sec. 485." Technical words are not necessary to give effect to any
species of disposition by a will.
Sec. 486. The term "heirs," or other words of inheritance, are not
requisite to devise a fee, and a devise of real property passes all the
estate of the testator, unless otherwise limited.
Sec. 487. Real or personal property embraced in a power to divise,
passes by a will purporting to devise all the real or personal property
of the testator.
Sec. 488. A devise or bequest of all the testator's real or personal
property, in express terms or in any other terms denoting his intent to
dispose of all his real or personal property, passes all the real or per
sonal property which he was entitled to dispose of by will at the time
of his death.
Sec. 489. A devise of residue of the testator's real property passes
all the real property which he was entitled to devise at the time of his
death, not otherwise effectually devised by his will.
Sec. 490. A bequest of the residue of the testator's personal prop
erty passes all the personal property which he was entitled to bequeath
at the time of his death, not otherwise effectually bequeathed by his
will.
Sec. 491. A testamentary disposition to "heirs," relatives, nearest
relations, "representatives," legal representatives, or personal repre
sentatives, or family, issue, descendants, nearest or next of kin, of any
person without other words of qualification, and when the terms are
used as words of donation and not of limitation, vests the property in
those who would be entitled to succeed to the property of such persons
according to the provisions of the Title on successions in this code.
Sec. 492. The terms mentioned in the last section are used as words
of donation and not of limitation, when the property is given to the
person so designated, directly, and not as a qualification of an estate
given to the ancestor of such person.
Sec. 493. Words in a will referring to death or survivorship simply
relate to the time of the testator's death, unless possession is actually
postponed, when they must be referred to the time of possession.
Sec. 494. A testamentary disposition to a class includes every per
son answering the description at the testator's death ; but when the
possession is postponed to a future period it includes also all persons
coming within the description before the time to which possession is
postponed.
Sec. 495. When a will directs the conversion of real property into
money, such property and all its proceeds must be deemed personal
property from the time of the testator's death.
Sec. 496. A child conceived before but not bom until after a testa
tor's death, or any other period when a disposition to a class vests in
right or possession, takes, if answering to the description of the class.
Sec. 497. When applying a will it is found that there is an imper
fect description, or that no person or property exactly answers the
description, mistakes and omissions must be corrected, if the error ap
pears from the context of the will, or from extrinsic evidence ; but evi
dence of the declarations of a testator as to his intentions can not be
received.
Sec. 498. Testamentary dispositions, including devises and bequests
to a person on attaining majority, are presumed to vest at the testa
tor's death.
Sec. 499. A testamentary disposition when vested, can not be
divested unless upon the occurrence of the precise contingency pre
scribed by the testator for that purpose.
Sec. 500. If a devisee or legatee dies during the lifetime of the tes
tator, the testamentary disposition to him fails, unless an intention ap
pears to substitute some other in his place, except as provided in sec
tion 501.
Sec. 501. The death of a devisee or legatee of a limited interest,
before the testator's death, does not defeat the interests of persons in
remainder, who survive the testator.
Se^. 502. A conditional disposition is one which depends upon the
occurrence of some uncertain event by which it is either to take effect
or be defeated.
Sec. 503. A condition precedent in a will is one which is required to
be fulfilled before a particular disposition takes effect.
Sec. 504. When a testamentary disposition is made upon a con
dition precedent, nothing vests until the condition is fulfilled, except
when such fulfillment is impossible, in which case the disposition vests,
unless the condition was the sole motive thereof, and the impossibility
was unknown to the testator, or arose from an unavoidable event sub
sequent to the execution of the will.
Sec. 505. A condition precedent in a will is to be deemed performed
when the testator's intention has been substantially, though not liter
ally, complied with.
Sec. 506. A condition subsequent is when an estate or interest is so
given as to vest immediately, subject only to be divested by some sub
sequent act or event.
Sec. 507. A devise or legacy given to more than one person vests in
them as owners in common.
Sec. 508. Advancements or gifts are not to be taken as redemptions
of general legacies, unless such intention is expressed by the testator,
in writing.
Sec. 509. Legacies are distinguished and designated according to
their nature, as follows :
First. A legacy of a specific thing, specified and distinguished from
all others of the same kind belonging to the testator, is specific ; if such
legacy fails, resort can not be had to the other property of the testator.
Second. A legacy is demonstrative when the particular fund or per
sonal property is pointed out from which it is to be taken or paid ; if
such fund or property fails, in whole or in part, resort may be had to
the general assets, as in case of a general legacy.
Third. An annuity is a bequest of certain specific sums periodically ;
if the fund or property out of which they are payable fails, resort may
be had to the general assets, as in a case of general legacy.
Fourth. A residuary legacy embraces only that which remains after
all the bequests of the will are discharged.
Fifth. All other legacies are general legacies.
Sec. 510. When a person dies intestate, all his property, real and
personal, without any distinction between them, is chargeable with
the payment of his debts, except as otherwise provided in this code and
the Code of Civil Procedure.
Sec. 511. The property of a testator, except as otherwise specially
provided for in this code and the Code of Civil Procedure, must be
resorted to for the payment of debts, in the following order :
First. The property which is expressly appropriated by the will for
the payment of the debts ;
Second. Property not disposed of by the will ;
Third. Property which is devised or bequeathed to a residuarylegatee
;
Fourth. Property which is not specifically devised or bequeathed ;
and,
Fifth. All other property ratably.
Before any debts are paid the expenses of the administration and the
allowance to the family must be paid or provided for.
Sec. 512. The property of a testator, except as otherwise specially
provided in this code and the Code of Civil Procedure, must be resorted
to for the payment of legacies, in the following order :
First. The property which is expressly appropriated by the will for
the payment of the legacies.
Second. Property not disposed of by the will.
Third. Property which is devised or bequeathed to a residuary
legatee.
Fourth. Property which is not specifically devised or bequeathed.
Sec. 518. Legacies to husband, widow, or kindred of any class, are
chargeable only after legacies to persons not related to the testator.
Sec. 514. Abatement takes place in any class only as between
legacies of that class, unless a different intention is expressed in the
will.
Sec. 515. In a specified devise or' legacy, the title passes by the
will ; but possession can only be obtained from the personal represent
ative, and he may be authorized by the judge of the probate court to
sell the property devised and bequeathed in the cases herein provided.
Sec. 516. The rights of a purchaser or incumbrancer of real prop
erty, in good faith, and for value, derived from any person claiming
the same by succession, are not impaired by any devise made by the
decedent from whom succession is claimed, unless the instrument con
taining such devise is duly proved as a will, and recorded in the office
of the clerk of the probate court having jurisdiction thereof, or unless
written notice of such devise is filed with the clerk of the county where
the real property is situated, within four years after the devisor's
death.
Sec. 517. Where specific legacies are for life only, the first legatee
must sign and deliver to ttie second legatee, or, if there is none, to the
personal representative, an inventory of the property, expressing that
the same is in his custody for life only, and that on his decease it is tobe
delivered and to remain to the use and for the benefit of the second
legatee, or to the personal representative, as the case may be.
Sec. 518. In case of a bequest of the interest or income of a cer
tain sum or fund, the income accrues from the testator's death.
Sec. 519. A legacy or a gift in contemplation, fear, or peril of
death, may be satisfied before death.
Sec. 520. Legacies are due and deliverable at the expiration of one
year after the testator's death ; annuities commence at the testator's
decease.
Sec. 521. Legacies bear interest from the time when they are due
and payable, except that legacies for maintenance, or to the testator's
widow, bear interest from the testator's decease.
Sec. 522. The four preceding sections are in all cases to be con
trolled by the testator's express intention.
Sec. 528. When it appears by the terms of a will that it was the
intention of the testator to commit the execution thereof, and the ad
ministration of his estate to any person as executor, such person,
although not named executor, is entitled to letters testamentary, in
like maimer as if he had been named executor.
Sec. 524. An authority to an executor to appoint an executor is
void.
Sec. 525. No person has any power as an executor, until he quali
fies, except that before letters have been issued he may pay funeral
charges and take necessary measures for the preservation of the estate.
Sec. 526. The provisions of this Title in relation to the revocation
of wills apply to all wills made by any testator living at the expiration
of one year from the time it takes effect.
Sec. 527. The provisions of this Title do not impair the validity of
the execution of any will made before it takes effect, or affect the con
struction of any such will.
Sec. 528. The validity and interpretation of wills, wherever made,
are governed, when relating to property within this Territory, by the
law of this Territory.
Sec. 529. Except as otherwise provided, the validity and interpre
tation of wills are governed, when relating to real property within this
Territory, by the law of this Territory ; when relating to personal prop
erty, by the law of the testator's domicile.
Sec. 580. Those to whom property is given by will are liable for
the obligations of the testator in the cases and to the extent prescribed
by the Code of Civil Procedure.
Sec. 531. Succession is the coming in of another to take the prop
erty of one who dies without disposing of it by will.
Sec. 532. The property, both real and personal, of one who dies
without disposing of it by will, passes to the heirs of the intestate,
subject to the control of the probate court, and to the possession of
any administrator appointed by that court for the purposes of admin
istration.
Sec. 533. The personal representative of the decedent within the
meaning of that phrase as used in the preceding section, is the duly
qualified and acting executor, administrator, or administrator with the
will annexed, of the estate of the decedent.
Sec. 534. When any person having title to any estate not otherwise
limited by marriage contract, dies without disposing of the estate by
will, it is succeeded to and must be distributed, unless otherwise
expressly provided in this code and the Code of Civil Procedure, subject
to the payment of his debts, in the following manner :
First. If the decedent leave a surviving husband or wife, and only
one child, or the lawful issue of one child, in equal shares to the sur
viving husband, or wife and child, or issue of such child. If the dece
dent leave a surviving husband or wife and more than one child living,
or one child living, and the lawful issue of one or more deceased
children, one-third to the husband or wife, and the remainder in equal
shares to his children, and to the lawful issue of any deceased child,
by right of his representation ; but if there be no child of the decedent
living at his death, the remainder goes to all his lineal descendants ;
and if all of "the descendants are in the same degree of kindred to the
decedent, they share equally, otherwise they take according to the right
of representation. If the decedent leave no surviving husband or wife,
but leave issue, the whole estate goes to such issue ; and if such issue
consists of more than one child living, or one child living, and the law
ful issue of one or more deceased children, then the estate goes in
equal shares to the children living, or to the child living, and to the
issue of the deceased child or children by right of representation.
Second. If the decedent leave no issue, then the estate goes in equal
shares to the surviving husband or wife, and to the decedent's father.
If there be no father, then one-half goes in equal shares to the brothers
and sisters of the decedent, and to the children of any deceased brother
or sister, by right of representation. If he leave a mother also, she
takes an equal share with the brothers and sisters. If the decedent
leave no issue, nor husband nor wife, the estate must go to the father.
Third. If there be no issue, nor husband, nor wife, nor father, then
in equal shares to the brothers and sisters of the decedent, and to the
children of any deceased brother or sister, by right of representation.
If a mother survive, she takes an equal share with the brothers and
sisters.
Fourth. If the decedent leave no issue, nor husband, nor wife, nor
father, and no brother nor sister is living at the time of his death, the
estate goes to his mother, to the exclusion of the issue, if any, of
■deceased brothers or sisters.
Fifth. If the decedent leave a surviving husband or wife, and no
issue, and no father, nor mother, nor brother, nor sister, the whole
goes to the surviving husband or wife.
Sixth. If the decedent leave no issue, nor husband nor wife, and no
father, nor mother, nor brother, nor sister, the estate must go to the
next of kin, in equal degree, excepting that when there are two or
more collateral kindred in equal degree, but claiming through different
ancestors, those who claimed through the nearest ancestors must be
preferred to those claiming through an ancestor more remote ; how
ever,
Seventh. If the decedent leave several children, or one child and
the issue of one or more children, and any such surviving child dies
under age, and not having been married, all the estate that came to the
deceased child by inheritance from such decedent descends in equal
shares to the other children of the same parent, and to the issue of any
such other children who are dead, by right of representation.
Eighth. If, at the death of such child who dies under age, not
having been married, all the other children of his parents are also
dead, and any of them have left issue, the estate that came to such
child by inheritance from his parent, descends to the issue of all other
children of the same parent; and if all the issue are in the same
degree of kindred to the child, they share the estate equally, otherwise
they take according to the right of representation.
Sec. 535. If the decedent leave no husband, wife or kindred, the
estate escheats to the Territory.
Sec. 5.6. Every illegitimate child is an heir of the person who, in
writing signed in the presence of a competent witness, acknowledges
himself to be the father of such child ; and in all cases is an heir of
his mother, and inherits his or her estate, in whole or in part, as the
case may be, in the same manner as if it had been born in lawful wed
lock ; but he does not represent his father or mother by inheriting any
part of the estate of his or her kindred, either lineal or collateral,
unless, before his death, his parents shall have intermarried, and his
father, after such marriage, acknowledges him as his child, or adopts
him into his family, in which case such child and all the legitimate
children are considered brothers and sisters, and on the death of either
of them, intestate and without issue, the others inherit his estate, and
an heir, as hereinbefore provided, in like manner as if all the children
had been legitimate ;«saving to the father and mother respectively, their
rights in the estates of all the children in like manner as if all had
been legitimate. The issue of all marriages null in law, or dissolved
by divorce, are legitimate.
Sec. 587. If an illegitimate child who has not been acknowledged
or adopted by his father, dies intestate without lawful issue, his estate
goes to his mother, or, in case of her decease, to her heirs at law.
Sec. 538. The degree of kindred is established by the number of
generations, and each generation is called a degree.
Sec. 589. The series of degrees forms the line; the series of
degrees between persons who descend from one another, is called direct
or lineal consanguinity ; and the series of degrees between persons who
do not descend from one another, but spring from a common ancester,
is called the collateral line, or collateral consanguinity.
Sec. 540. The direct line is divided into a direct line descending,
and a direct line ascending. The first is that which connects the
ancestor with those who descend from him ; the second is that which
connects a person with those from whom he descends.
Sec. 541. In the direct line there are as many degrees as there are
fenerations. Thus, the son is with regard to the father in the first
egree ; the grandson in the second ; and vice versa with regard to the
father and grandfather, towards the sons and grandsons.
Sec. 542. In the collateral line the degrees are counted by genera
tions, from one of the relations up to the common ancestor, and from
the common ancestor to the other relations. On such computation the
decedent is excluded, the relation included, and the ancestor counted
but once. Thus, brothers are related in the second degree ; uncle and
nephew in the third degree ; cousins-german in the fourth, and so on.
Sec. 548. Kindred' of the half-blood inherit equally with those of
the whole blood in the same degree, unless the inheritance came to the
intestate by descent, devise, or gift of some one of his ancestors, in
which case all those who are not of the blood of such ancestor must be
excluded from such inheritance.
Sec. 544. Any estate, real or personal, given by the decedent in his
lifetime as an advancement to any child or other lineal descendant, is
a part of the estate of the decedent for the purposes of division and
distribution thereof among his issue, and must be taken by such child
or other lineal descendant towards his share of the estate of the
decedent.
Sec. 545. If the amount of such advancements exceeds the share
of the heir receiving the same, he must be excluded from receiving any
further portion in the division and distribution of the estate, but he
must not be required to refund any part of such advancement ; and if
the amount so received is less than his share, he is entitled to so much
more as will give him his full share of the estate of the decedent.
Sec. 545. All gifts and grants are made as advancements, if
expressed in the gift or grant to be made, or if charged in writing by
the decedent as an advancement, or acknowledged in writing as such
by the child, or other successor or heir.
Sec. 547. If the value of the estate so advanced is expressed in the
conveyance, or in the charge thereof, made by the decedent, or in the
acknowledgment of the party receiving it, it muSt be held as of that
value, in the division and distribution of the estate, otherwise it must
be estimated according to its value when given, as nearly as the same
can be ascertained.
Sec. 548. If any child or other lineal descendant, receiving advance
ment, dies before the decedent, leaving issue, the advancement must be
taken into consideration in the division and distribution of the estate,
and the amount thereof must be allowed accordingly by the repre
sentatives of the heirs receiving the advancement, in like manner as
if the advancements had been made directly to them.
Sec. 549. The provisions of the preceding section of this Title as to
the inheritance of the husband and wife from each other, apply only to
the separate property of the decedent.
Sec. 550. Upon the death of the wife the entire community property,
without administration, belongs to the surviving husband, except such
portion thereof as may have been set apart to her by judicial decree for
her support and maintenance, which portion is subject to her testa
mentary disposition ; and in the absence of such disposition goes to
her descendants or heirs, exclusive of her husband.
Sec. 551. Upon the death of the husband one-half of the com
munity property goes to the surviving wife, and the other half is sub
ject to the testamentary disposition of the husband ; and in the absence
of such disposition goes to his descendants, equally, if such descend
ants are in the same degree of kindred to the decedent, otherwise,
according to the right of representation ; and in the absence of both
such disposition and such descendants, is subject to distribution in the
same manner as the separate property of the husband. In case of the
dissolution of the community by the death of the husband, the entire
community property is equally subject to his debts, the family allow
ance, and the charges and expenses of administration.
Sec. 552. Inheritance or succession "by right of representation"
takes place when the descendants of any deceased take the same show,
or right, in the estate of another person that their parents would have
taken if living. Posthumous children are considered as living at the
death of their parents.
Sec. 553. Resident aliens may take in all cases by succession as
citizens ; and no person capable of succeeding under the provisions of
this Title is precluded from such succession by reason of the alienage
of any relative ; but no non-resident foreigner can take by succession,
unless he appears and claims such succession within five years after
the death of the decedent to whom he claims succession.
Sec. 554. When succession is not claimed as provided in the pre
ceding section, the district court, on information, must direct the dis
trict attorney of the district in which the property is situated to reduce
the property to his or the possession of the Territory, or to cause the
same to be sold, and the same or the proceeds thereof to be deposited
in the Territorial treasury for the benefit of such non-resident foreigner
or his legal representatives, to be paid to him whenever, within five
years after such deposit, proof to the satisfaction of the Territorial
auditor and treasurer is produced that he is entitled to succeed
thereto.
Sec. 555. When so claimed, the evidence and the joint order of the
auditor and treasurer must be filed by the treasurer as his voucher, and
the property delivered, or the proceeds paid to the claimant on filing
his receipt therefor. If no one succeeds to the estate or proceeds, as
herein provided, the property of the decedent devolves and escheats to
the people of the Territory, and is placed by the Territorial treasurer to
the credit of the general fund.
Sec. 556. Real property passing to the Territory under the last section, whether held by the estate or its officers, is subject to the same
charges and trusts to which it would have been subject if it had passed
by succession.
Sec. 557. Those who succeed to the property of a decedent are
liable for his obligations, in the cases and to the extent prescribed by
the laws of this Territory.
Sec. 558. That an act entitled "An act in relation to administra
tors and executors" (general and miscellaneous laws), codified statutes,
save and except sections 298, 294, 295, 296, 297, 298, and 299 thereof,
be and the same are hereby repealed : Provided, That the provisions
of said act shall be and remain in force so far as, and shall be applica
ble to, all estates now in course of administration, and upon which let
ters testamentary or administration have issued to the settlement and
winding up of such estates, and the discharge of the executor and
administrator therein, so far as such act may be applicable and pro
vide for ; but in any matter or thing for which said act may contain no
provision the provisions of this act shall be applicable.
Sec. 559. This act shall take effect on the first day of July, A. D.
1877, and the act mentioned in the last preceding section shall con
tinue in force until the date last aforesaid.
Note.—The foregoing 559 sections, except where otherwise specially noted, are taken
from the Act of February 16th, 1877. .
CHAPTER XX.
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATOR.
[See Chapter XIII.]
Sec. 560. Probate court may appoint public administrator; term of
office.
Sec. 561. Public administrator to make oath and give bond; unless given
within twenty days, may be removed.
Sec. 562. Certificate of appointment, oath, and bond to be filed and
recorded in county recorder's office and office of probate
coitrt; certificate thereof to be evidence.
Sec. 568. Persons injured may sue on bond in the name of the Territory.
Sec. 564. Public administrator removed for what causes.
Sec. 565. What compensation for services.
Sec. 566. When may he be indicted and fined.
Sec. 560. Each probate court, or court having probate jurisdiction,
in any county, may appoint a public administrator for its county, who
shall hold his office for two years, and until his successor in office be
qualified.
Sec. 561. Before entering on the duties of his office he shall take
oath faithfully and honestly to discharge the duties thereof, and shall
enter into bond to the people of the Territory of Montana, in a sum not
less than ten thousand dollars, with two or more securities approved
by said court, conditioned that he will faithfully discharge all the duties
of his office, and the court may from time to time, as occasion shall
require, demand additional security of such administrator, and, in
default of giving the same within twenty days after required, may
remove said administrator and appoint another.
Sec. 562. His certificate of appointment, official oath, and bond,
shall be filed and recorded in the recorder's office of the county, also in
the office of the probate court, and copies thereof from either, certified
under the seal of such court, or from the recorder's office under his
seal, shall be evidence.
Sec. 563. Any person injured by the breach of such bond may sue
upon the same, in the name of the people of the Territory of Montana,
for his own use in any court having jurisdiction.
Sec. 564. Such public administrator may be removed from office
in the same manner and for the same causes as administrators in other
cases.
Sec. 565. He shall receive the same compensation for his services
as may be allowed by law to executors and administrators, unless the
court for special reasons allow a higher compensation.
Sec. 566. For any willful misdemeanor in office he may be indicted,
and fined not exceeding one thousand dollars, and may be imprisoned
until such fine and costs are paid.
Note.—The last seven sections are taken from the Act of January 12th, 1872.
CHAPTEK XXI.
MINOR HEIRS—COSTS.
Sec. 567. That any minor heir or heirs, either resident or non
resident of this Territory, may commence and prosecute any suit or
suits against any executor or administrator, and sureties upon the,
bond of such executor or administrator, by attorney or next friend,
and without the pre-payment of costs, or security therefor ; but such
minor shall not be relieved from liability to pay such costs, and the
same shall be a lien upon any judgment on property he may recover in
such action, and it is hereby made the duty of the officers of the courts
to issue all writs and serve the same without demanding or receiving
their fees in advance.
Sec. 568. That to entitle any such minor heir so to sue, it shall
appear by the affidavit of his or her attorney or next friend, that such
heir has a good cause of action and is unable to pay the costs in money
or to procure security therefor.
