SEC. 1. Remedies in the courts of justice are divided into—
1. Actions,
2. Special proceedings.
SEC. 2. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of justice,
by which a party prosecutes another party, for the enforce
ment or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of
a wrong, or the punishment or prevention of a public
offence.
SEC. 3. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.
SEC. 4.—Division of Actions.
Actions are of two kinds:
1. Civil,
2. Criminal.
SEC. A criminal action is —
1. An action prosecuted by the State as a party, against
a person charged with a public offence, for the punishment
thereof.
2. An action prosecuted by the State, at the instance of
an individual, to prevent an apprehended crime against his
person or property.
SEC. 6. Every other is a civil action.
SEC. 7. Where the violation of a right admits ooth of a civil
and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not
merged in the other.
SEC. 8. The following enactments are applicable to:
1. All civil actions, which at the approval, by the govern
ment of the United States, of the Constitution adopted by
a Convention of this State, on the sixteenth day of March,
1868, were pending in any County Court, Superior Court
of law, or Court of Equity, of this State, and which were
not founded on contract, as far as they may be, according
to the stage of progress of the action, and having regard
to its subject and not to its form.
2. All civil actions which shall be commenced after the
ratification of this Act, not founded on a contract made
prior to its ratification.
3. a All civil actions commenced prior to the ratification
of this Act, or which shall be commenced hereafter, for
causes of action included within the provisions of an ordi
nance, entitled " An Ordinance respecting the jurisdiction
of the courts of this State," ratified on the fourteenth day
of March, 1868: [but such actions] shall be governed in
respect to the practice and procedure therein, by the provi
sions of that ordinance, and by the existing laws, as far as
they may be, except as to form.
4. All civil actions commenced prior to the ratification of
this Act, or which shall be hereafter commenced, founded
on a contract made prior to the ratification of this Act,
and not embraced in the ordinance above-mentioned: [but
such actions] shall be governed^ in respect to the practice
and procedure therein, up to, and including the judgment,
by the laws existing prior to the ratification of this Act, as
near as may be except as to form, and the practice in such
actions subsequent to judgment, shall be governed b}r the
enactments of this Act. 
SEC. 9. In those of the following enactments, which confer juris
diction or power, or impose duties, when the words "Su
perior Court," or " Court," in reference to a Superior Court,
are used, they mean the Clerk of the Superior Court, unless
otherwise specifically stated, or unless reference is made to a
regnlar term of the Court, in which cases, the Judge of the
Court alone, is meant. 
SEc. 10. After the first Thursday in August in the year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-eight, the State shall
be divided into nine judicial districts and the superior courts
in the several counties shall he opened and held at the times
hereinafter expressed, and each court shall continue in session
one week, or two weeks, as the case may require, and this act
will allow, unless the business thereof shall be sooner disposed
of, namely:
FIRST JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
The first judicial district shall be composed of the following
counties, and the superior courts thereof shall be held at the
following times, to-wit:
Currituck, first Monday of March and September.
Camden, second Monday of March and September,
Pasquotank, third Monday of March and September.
Perquimans, fourth Monday of March and September.
Chowan, first Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Hertford, second Monday after fourth Monday of March
and September.
Gates, third Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Washington, fourth Monday after fourth Monday of March
and September.
Tyrrell, fifth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Dare, sixth Monday after fourth Monday of March and Sep
tember.
Hyde, seventh Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Pamlico, eighth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
The second judicial district shall be composed of the fol
lowing counties, and the superior courts thereof shall be held
at the following times, to- wit :
Wake, third Monday of February and August.
Franklin, first Monday of March and September.
Warren, second Monday of March and September.
Halifax, third Monday of March and September.
Northampton, fourth Monday after first Monday of March
and September.
Edgecombe, sixth Monday after first Monday of March and
September.
Bertie, eighth Monday after first Monday of March and Sep
tember.
Martin, ninth Monday after first Monday of March and Sep
tember.
Beaufort, tenth Monday after first Monday of March and
September.
Craven, twelfth Monday after first Monday of March and
September.
THIRD JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
The third judicial district shall be composed of the follow
ing counties, and the superior courts thereof shall be held at
the following times, to-wit:
Nash, first Monday before first Monday of March and Sep
tember.
Wilson, second Monday of March and September.
Pitt, third Monday of March and September.
Greene, fourth Monday after first Monday of March and
September.
Wayne, fifth Monday after first Monday of March and Sep
tember.
Lenoir, seventh Monday after first Monday of March and
September.
Jones, eighth Monday after first Monday of March and Sep
tember.
Carteret, ninth Monday after first Monday of March and
September.
Onslow, tenth Monday after first Monday of March and
September.
Duplin, eleventh Monday after first Monday of March and
September.
Sampson, twelfth Monday after first Monday of March and
September.
New Hanover, thirteenth Monday after first Monday of
March and September. ^
Pender, fifteenth Monday after first Monday of March and
September.
FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
The fourth judicial district shall be composed of the follow
ing counties, and the superior courts thereof shall be held at
the following times, to-wit:
Harnett, first Monday of February and August.
Moore, second Monday of February and August.
Anson, third Monday after second Monday of February and
August.
Richmond, fourth Monday after second Monday of February
and August.
Robeson, fifth Monday after second Monday of February
and August.
Columbus, sixth Monday after second Monday of February
and August.
Brunswick, seventh Monday after second Monday of Febru
ary and August.
Bladen, eighth Monday after second Monday of February
and August.
Cumberland, ninth Monday after second Monday of Febru
ary and August.
Johnston, eleventh Monday after second Monday of Febru
ary and August.
FIFTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
The fifth judicial district shall be composed of the following
counties, and the superior courts thereof shall be held at the
following times, to-wit:
Alamance, second Monday before first Monday of March
and September.
Randolph, first Monday before first Monday of March and
September.
Guilford, first Monday of March and September.
Chatham, third Monday of March and September.
Orange, third Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Granville, fourth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Person, sixth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Caswell, seventh Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Rockingham, eighth Monday after fourth Monday of March
and September.
SIXTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
The sixth judicial district shall be composed of the follow
ing counties, and the superior courts thereof shall be held at
the following times, to-wit:
Mecklenburg, first Monday of March and September.
Cabarrus, third Monday of March and September.
Stanly, fourth Monday of March and September.
Montgomery, first Monday after fourth Monday of March
and September.
Union, third Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Lincoln, fourth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Gastou, fifth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Cleveland, sixth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Rutherford, seventh Monday after fourth Monday of March
and September.
Polk, eighth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
SEVENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
The seventh judicial district shall be composed of the fol
lowing counties, and the superior courts thereof shall be held
at the following times, to- wit:
Davie, first Monday of March and September.
Yadkin, second Monday of March and September.
Wilkes, third Monday of March and September.
Alleghany, first Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Surry, second Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Stokes, third Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Forsythe, fourth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Davidson, sixth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Rowan, eighth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
EIGHTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
The eighth judicial district shall be composed of the follow
ing counties, and the superior courts thereof shall be held at
the following times, to-wit:
Catawba, first Monday of March and September.
Burke, second Monday of March and September.
McDowell, third Monday of March and September.
Yancey, fourth Monday of March and September.
Mitchell, first Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Watauga, second Monday after fourth Monday of March
and September.
Ashe, third Monday after fourth Monday of March and Sep
tember.
Caldwell, fourth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Alexander, fifth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
Iredell, sixth Monday after fourth Monday of March and
September.
NINTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
The ninth judicial district shall be composed of the follow
ing counties, and the superior courts thereof shall be held at
the following times, to- wit: ,
Graham, first Monday of April and September.
Cherokee, second Monday of April and September.
Clay, third Monday of April and September.
Macon, fourth Monday of April and September.
Swain, first Monday after fourth Monday of April and Sep
tember.
Jackson, second Monday after fourth Monday of April and
September.
Haywood, third Monday after fourth Monday of April and
September.
Transylvania, fourth Monday after fourth Monday of April
and September.
Henderson, fifth Monday after fourth Monday of April and
September.
Buncombe, sixth Monday after fourth Monday of April and
September.
Madison, eighth Monday after fourth Monday of April and
September.
SEC. 11. 1. Whenever it shall appear to the Governor by the certifi
cate of any judge, or majority of the county commissioners,
that there is such an accumulation of civil or criminal actions,
in the superior court, of any county, as to require the holding
of a special term for its dispatch, he shall issue an order to some
one of the judges of the superior court other than the judge in
the judicial district in which such county is, requiring him to
hold a special term of the superior court of such county, to
begin on a certain Monday, not to interfere with any of the
regular terms of the courts of his district. The judge shall
attend and hold such court.
2. Whenever the Governor shall call a special term of the
superior court for any county, he shall notify the chairman of
the county commissioners of the county of such call, and such
chairman shall take immediate steps to cause twenty-four, or,
if a grand jury be needed, thirty-eight, qualified persons, to be
drawn and summoned as jurors for said term; and, also to ad
vertise said term at the Court House and at one public place
in every township in his county, or by publication of at least
two weeks in some newspaper published in his county, in lieu
of such township advertisement.
3. The special terms of the superior courts held in pursu
ance of this chapter shall have all the jurisdiction and powers
that regular terms of the superior courts have.
4. The said terms shall last until all the business of the
court shall be disposed of.
5. The clerk shall give the judge a certificate of attendance
for the number of days occupied by the court, and the judge
shall thereupon be entitled to receive from the commissioners
of the county in which the court is held, his expenses at the
rate of one hundred dollars per week, as his compensation for
holding said term.
6. The judge, after each term, shall report to the Secretary
of State, according to the forms prescribed by law, or which
may be prescribed by the Secretary.
(1) The number and kinds of criminal actions which were
for trial.
(2) The number actually tried.
(8) The number of civil actions which were for trial.
(4) The number actually tried, and whether the cases were
continued at the instance of one or both of the parties, or from
what other cause.
7. The clerk of the superior court shall report the proceed
ings of special terms to the Secretary of State as he is, or may
be required to report the proceedings of regular terms.
8. Subpt>enas may issue returnable on any day of any spe
cial term.
9. There shall be no grand jury at any special term, unless
the same shall be ordered by the Governor.
SEC. 11a. 1. The judges of the superior courts shall ride the circuits
successively, commencing at the first district according to the
following order and arrangement: The judge of the twelfth
district shall ride the spring circuit for the year one thousand
eight hundred and seventy-seven, of the first district; and suc
cessively thereafter the various districts in the order of their
numbers in rotation.
2. The judge of the first district shall ride the spring cir
cuit for the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-
seven, of the second district; and successively thereafter he
shall ride the circuits of the several districts in the order of
their numbers in rotation.
8. The judge of the second district shall ride the spring
circuit for the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-
seven, of the third district; and successively thereafter he shall
ride the circuits of the several districts in the order of their
numbers in rotation.
4. The judge of the third district shall ride the spring
circuit for the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-
seven, of the fourth district; and successively thereafter he
shall ride the circuits of the several districts in the order of
their numbers in rotation.
5. The judge of the fourth district shall ride the spring
circuit for the year one thousand eight hundred and seventyseven,
of the fifth district; and successively thereafter he shall
ride the circuits of the several districts in the order of their
numbers in rotation.
6. The judge of the fifth district shall ride the spring
circuit for the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-
seven, of the sixth district; and successively thereafter he shall
ride the circuits of the several districts in the order of their
numbers in rotation.
7. The judge of the sixth district shall ride the spring
circuit for the year one thousand eight hundred and seventyseven,
of the seventh district; and successively thereafter he
shall ride the circuits of the several districts in the order of
their numbers in rotation.
8. The judge of the seventh district shall ride the spring
circuit for the year one thousand ei^ht hundred and seventyseven,
of the eighth district; and successively thereafter he
shall ride the circuits of the several districts in the order of
their numbers in rotation.
{). The judge of the eighth district shall ride the spring
circuit for the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-
seven, of the ninth district ; and successively thereafter he shall
ride the circuits of the several districts in the order of their
numbers in rotation.
10. The judge of the ninth district shall ride the spring
circuit for the year one thousand eight hundred and seventyseven,
of the tenth district; and successively thereafter he shall
ride the circuits of the several districts in their numerical order
in rotation.
11. The judge of the tenth district shall ride the spring
circuit for the year one thousand eight hundred and seventyseven,
of the eleventh district; and successively thereafter he
shall ride the circuits of the several districts in their numerical
order in rotation.
12. The judge of the eleventh district shall ride the spring
circuit for the year one thousand eight hundred and seventyseven,
of the twelfth [district]; and successively thereafter he
shall ride the circuits of the several districts in their numerical
order in rotation.
13. The judges shall cause a notification of the ridings to
be published in some newspaper by the first of January and
the first of July preceding each circuit: Provided, that the
notice for January, one thousand eight hundred and seventyseven,
shall be made within two days after the ratification of
this act by the Secretary of State.
14. No judge shall ride the same circuit twice in succes
sion; nor shall any judge exchange the riding of any district
for the district in which he resides, and for which he was
elected, but with these two exceptions, the judges may ex
change with each other for any courts in their circuits, and,
with the consent of the Governor of the State, may exchange
their entire circuits: Provided, that no judge shall hold the
courts in the same district oftener than once in four years.
SEc. 12. The distinction between actions at law and suits in
equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, hereto
fore existing, are abolished ;« and there shall be, in this
State, hereafter, but one form of action fur the enforce
ment or protection of private rights and the redress of pri
vate wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil action. 
SEC. 13. In such action the party complaining shall be known as
the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
Sec. 14. No action shall be brought ti poti a judgment rendered
in any court of this State, which shall be rendered after
the ratification of this act, except a court of a Justice of
the Peace, between the same parties, without the leave of
the Judge of the court, either in or out of term, for good
cause shown, on notice to the adverse party.
SEC. 15. Feigned issues are abolished ; and instead thereof, in the
cases where the power now exists to order a feigned issue,
or when a question of fact not put in issue by the plead
ings, is to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be
made by the Judge, stating distinctly and plainly the ques
tion of fact to be tried ; and such order shall be the only
authority necessary for a trial.
SEC. 16. The provisions contained in chapter sixty-five of the
Revised Code, entitled " Limitations," are repealed, and
the provisions of this title are substituted. This title shall
not extend to actions already commenced, or to cases where
the right of action has already accrued, but the statutes in
force previous to the ratification of this act shall be appli
cable to such cases ; and in cases where the right of action
has already accrued, but the action has not been com
menced, the said statutes shall be applied according to the
subject matter of the action, and without regard to the
form.
SEC. 17. Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods
prescribed in this title, after the cause of action shall have
accrued, except where, in special cases, a different limita
tion is prescribed by statute. But the objection that the
action was not commenced within the time limited, can
only be taken by answer.
SEC. 18. The State will not sue any person for, or in respect of,
any real property, or the issues or profits thereof, by reason
of the right or title of the State to the same;
1. When the person in possession thereof, (a) or those un-.
der whom he claims, shall have been in the adverse posses-
sion (b) thereof for thirty years, such possession having been
ascertained and identified under known and visible lines or
boundaries ; and such possession, so held, shall give a title
in fee to the possessor.
2. When the person in possession thereof, or those under
whom he claims, shall have been in possession under color
able title for twenty-one years, such possession having been
ascertained and identified under known and visible lines or
boundaries.
SEC. 19. All such possession as is described in the preceding sec
tion, under such title as is therein described, is hereby rati
fied and confirmed, and declared to be a good and legal bar
against the entry or suit of any person under the right or
claim of the State.
SEC. 20. When the person in possession of any real property, or
those under whom he claims, shall have been possessed of
the same, under known aud visible lines and boundaries,
and under colorable title (a) for seven years, no entry shall
be made or action sustained against such possessor, by any
person having any right or title to the same, except during
the seven years next, after his right or title shall have de
scended or accrued, who in default of sueing within the
time aforesaid, shall be excluded from any claim thereafter
to be made; and such possession, so held, shall be a per
petual bar against all persons ; subject to the qualifications
in sections twenty-eight aud twenty-nine (§§28 — 29) of this title.
SEC. 21. If in any action for real property, the plaintiff be non
suited, or judgment be given for him, and the same be
reversed for error, or a verdict pass for the plaintiff, and
judgment thereon be arrested, then in any such case, the
plaintiff may commence a new action from time to time,
within one year after non-suit, judgment reversed or stayed
as aforesaid, notwithstanding the time limited in the fore
going section (§20) for bringing such actions may have
expired, if the action first brought, was commenced within
the time above prescribed for bringing such actions.
SEC. 22. No action for the recovery of real property, or the pos
session thereof, shall be maintained, unless it appear that
the plaintiff, or those under whom he claims, was seized or
possessed of the premises in question within twenty years
before the commencement of such action ; subject to the
qualifications in sections twenty-nine and thirty .
SEC. 23. o action for the recovery of real property, or the pos
session thereof, or the issues and profits thereof, shall be
maintained when the person in possession thereof, or the
defendant in such action, or those under whom he claims,
shall have possessed such real property under known and
visible lines and boundaries adversely to all other persons
for twenty years; and such possession, so held, shall give a title in a fee to the possessor, in such property, against all
persons not under disability.
SEC. 24. No entry upon real estate shall be deemed sufficient or
valid, as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon,
within one year after the making of such entry, and within
the time prescribed in this title.
SEC. 25. In every action for the recovery of real property, or the
possession thereof, or damages for a trespass on such pos
session, the person establishing a legal title to the premises,
shall be presumed to have been possessed thereof within
the time required by law ; and the occupation of such pre
mises by any other person shall be deemed to have been
wnder, and in subordination to, the legal title, unless it
appears that such premises have been held and possessed
adversely to such legal title, for the time prescribed by law
before the commencement of such action.
SEC. 26. Whenever the relation of landlord and tenant shall have
existed between any persons, the possession of the tenant
shall be deemed the possession of the landlord, until the
expiration of twenty years from the termination of the ten
ancy ; or, where there has been no written lease, until the
expiration of twenty years from the time of the last pay
ment of rent, notwithstanding that such tenant may have
acquired another title, or may have claimed to hold ad
versely to his landlord. But such presumptions shall not
be made after the periods herein limited.
SEC. 27. If a person entitled to commence any action for the re
covery of real property, or to make an entry or defence
founded on the title to real property, or to rents and ser
vices out of the same, be, at the time such title shall
descend or accrue, either,
1. Within the age of twenty-one years, or
2. Insane, or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution
upon conviction of a criminal offence, or
4. A married woman —
Then such person may, notwithstanding the time of limi
tation prescribed in this title be expired, commence his
action, or make his entry, within three years next after full
age, coming of sound mind, enlargement out of prison, or
discoverture, and at no time thereafter.
SEC. 28. When two or more disabilities shall co-exist, or when one
disability shall supervene an existing one, the period pre
scribed within which an action may be brought, shall not
begin to rnn until the termination of the latest disability.
SEC. 29. No Rail Road, Plank Road, Turnpike or Canal Com
pany, shall be barred of, or presumed to have conveyed,
any real estate, right of way, easement, leasehold or other
interest in the soil which may have been condemned, or
otherwise obtained for its use, as a right of way, depot,
station-house or place of landing, by any statute of limita
tion or by occupation of the same by any person whatever.
SEC. 30. he periods prescribed for the commencement of actions,
other than for the recovery of real property, shall be as
follows : 
SEC. 31. Within ten years;
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any Court of
the United States, or of any State or territory thereof ;
2. An action upon a sealed instrument against the prin
cipals thereto ;
3. An action for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or deed
in trust for creditors with a power of sale, of real property,
where the mortgagor or grantor has been in possession of
the property, within ten years after the forfeiture of the
mortgage, or after the power of sale became absolute, or
within ten years after the last payment on the same ;
4. An action for the redemption of a mortgage, where
the mortgagee has been in possession, or for a residuary in
terest under a deed in trust for creditors, where the trustee
or those holding under him, shall have been in possession,
within ten years after the right of action accrued.
SEC. 33. ithin seven years;
1. On a judgment rendered by a Justice of the Peace ;
2. By an creditor of a deceased person against his per
sonal or real representative, within seven years next after
the qualification of the executor or administrator and his
making the advertisement required by law, for creditors of
the deceased to present their claims, where no personal ser
vice of such notice in writing is made upon the creditor;
and a creditor thus barred of a recovery against the repre
sentative of any principal debtor, shall also be barred of a
recovery against any surety to such debt.
SEC. 33a. The executor, administrator or collector may cause the notice,
to be personally served
i on any creditor, who shall, thereupon, within six months after
such personal service, exhibit his claim, or be forever barred
from maintaining any action thereon against the personal rep
resentative.
SEC. 33b. If a claim is presented to and rejected by the executor, ad
ministrator or collector, and not referred as provided in the
last section, the claimant must, within six months after notice
of such rejection, or after some part of the debt becomes due,
commence an action for the recovery thereof, or be forever
barreil from maintaining an action thereon against the personal
representative.
SEC. 33. ithin six years ;
1. An action upon the official bond of any public officer.
2. An action against any executor, administrator, or
guardian on his official bond, within six years after the
auditing of hia final accounts by the proper officer, and the
filing of such audited account as required by law ;
3. An action for injury to any incorporeal hereditament.
SEC. 34. ithin three years ;
1- An action upon a contract, obligation, or liability
arising out of a contract, express or implied, except those
mentioned in the preceding sections ;
2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other
than a penalty or forfeiture, unless some other time be men
tioned in the statute creating it;
3. An action for trespass upon real property ;
4. An action for taking, detaining, converting, or in
juring any goods or chattels, including actions for their
specific recovery ;
5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other
injury to the person or rights of another, not arising on
contract and not hereinafter enunciated ;
6. An action against the sureties of any executor, ad
ministrator or guardian, on the official bond of their prin
cipal, within three years after the breach thereof com
plained of;
. An action against bail; within three years after judg
ment against their principal, but bail may discharge them
selves by a surrender of their principal, at any time before
final judgment against them ;
8. An action for fees due to any clerk, sheriff or other
officer, by the judgment of a court, within three years
from the time of the judgment rendered, or of the issuing
of the last execution therefor ;
9. An action for relief on the ground of fraud, in cases
which heretofore were solely cognizable by Courts of Equity,
the cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have
accrued until the discovery by the aggrieved party of the
facts constituting fraud.
SEC. 35. 1. An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable, or
other public officer for a trespass under color of his office ;
2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture,
where the action is given to the State alone, or in whole
or in part, to the party aggrieved, or to a common informer,
except where the statute imposing it prescribes a different
limitation ;
3. An action for libel, assault, battery, or false imprison
ment ;
4. An action against a sheriff or other officer, for the
escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process ;
5. An action by a creditor of any deceased person, on
whom personal notice in writing to present his claim to the
personal representative of the deceased has been served,
and who has failed so to do, within one year after the ser
vice of such notice, and any such creditor, barred of a
recovery against the personal representative of a principal
debtor, by reason of such default, shall also be barred of a
recovery against the sureties for such debt.
SEC. 36. ithin six months ;
1. An action for slander.
SEC. 37. An action for relief not herein provided for, must be
commenced within ten years after the cause of action shall
have accrued.
SEC. 38. The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall apply to
eivil actions brought in the name of the State, or for its
benefit, in the same manner as to actions by. or for the ben
efit of, private parties.
SEC. 39. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a
mutual, open and current account, where there have been
reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of action
shall be deemed to have accrued from the time of the latest
item proved in the account on either side.
SEC. 40. An action is commenced as to each defendant when the
summons is issued against him.
SEC. 41. If, when the cause of action accrue against any person,
he shall be out of the State, such action may be commenced
within the terms herein respectively limited, after the retnrn
of such person into the State; and if, after such cause
of action shall have accrued, such person shall depart from
and reside out of this State, or remain continuously absent
therefrom for the space of one year or more, the time of
his absence shall not be deemed or taken as an y part of
the time limited for the commencement of such action.
SEC. 42. If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in the
last chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a
sheriff or other officer for an escape, be at the time the
cause of action accrued, either,
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or
2. Insane; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution
under the sentence of a criminal court for a term less than
his natural life ; or
4. A married woman ;
Then such person may bring their actions within the
times before limited, after their disabilities shall be re
moved.
SEC. 43. If a person entitled to bring an action die before the
expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may be
commenced by his representatives after the expiration of
that time, and within one year from his death. If a per
son against whom an action may he brought die hefore the
expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may be
commenced against his executors or administrators after
the expiration of that time, and within one year after the
issuing of letters testamentary or of administration.
SEC. 44. When a person shall be an alien, subject or citizen of a
country, at war with the United States, the time of the
continuance of the war shall not be part of the period
limited for the commencement of the action.
SEC. 45. If an action shall be commenced within the time pre
scribed therefor, and the plaintiff be non-suited, or a judg
ment therein be reversed on appeal, or be arrested, the
plaintiff, or if he die and the cause of action survive, his
heirs or representatives may commence a new action with
in one year after such non suit, reversal, or arrest of judg
ment.
SEC. 46. When the commencement of an action shall be stayed
by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the con
tinuance of the injunction or prohibition shall not be part
of the time limited for the commencement of the action.
SEC. 47. In reckoning time when pleaded as a bar to suits, that
period shall not be counted, which elapses during any con
troversy on the probate of a will or granting letters of ad
ministration, unless there he an administrator appointed
during the pendency of the suit, and it be provided by law,
that suit may be brought against him.
SEC. 48. No person shall avail himself of a disability, unless it
existed when his right of action accrued.
SEC. 49. Where two or more disabilities shall co-exist at the time
the right of action accrues, the limitation shall not attach
until they all be removed.
SEC. 50. No act, admission or acknowledgment by any partner
after the dissolution of the co-partnership, or by an}- of the
makers of a promissory note or bond after the statute of
limitations shall have barred the same, shall be received as
evidence to repel the statute, except ..gainst the partner or
maker of the promissory note or bond, doing the act, or
making the admission or acknowledgment.
SEC. 51. o acknowledgment or promise shall be received as evi
dence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the
case out of the operation of this title, unless the same be
contained in some writing signed by the party to be charged
thereby ; but this section shall not alter the effect of any
payment of principal or interest.
SEC. 52. In actions by tenants in common or joint tenants of per
sonal property to recover the same, or damages for the de
tention of or injury thereto; if any of them shall beLbar-
red of their recovery by limitation of time, the rights ot
the others shall not be affected thereby, but they may re
cover according to their right and interest notwithstanding
such bar.
SEC. 53. This title shall not affect actions to enforce the payment
of bills, notes or other evidences of debt, issued or put in
circulation as money, by monied corporations which shall
be hereafter incorporated by or under the laws of the State.
SEC. 54. This title shall not affect actions against directors or
stockholders of any monied corporation or banking asso
ciation which shall hereafter he incorporated by, or under,
the laws of this State, to recover a penalty or forfeiture im
posed, or to enforce a liability created by law; but such
actions must be brought within three years after the dis
cover by the aggrieved party of the facts upon which the
penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability was created.
SEC. 55. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section
fifty-seven ($57) ; but this section shall not be deemed to au
thorize the assignment of a thing in action not arising out of
contract. But an action may be maintained by a grantee
of land in the name of a grantor, or his or her heirs or
legal representatives, when the grant or grants are void by
reason of the actual possession of a person claiming uuder
a title adverse to that of the grantor at the time of the
delivery of the grant, and the plaintiff, shall be allowed to
prove the facts to bring the case within this provision.
In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the
action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any
set-off or other defence existing at the time of, or before
notice of, the assignment; hut this section shall not apply
to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, trans
ferred in good faith and upon good consideration, before due.
SEC. 56. When a married woman is (a) party, her husband must be
joined with her except that,
1. When the action concerns her separate property she
may sue alone ;
2. When the action is between herself and her husband,
she may sue or be sued alone;
And in no case need she prosecute or defend by a guard
ian or next friend.
SEC. 57. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue,
without joining with him the person for whose benefit the
action is prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust, within
the meaning of this section, shall be construed to include
a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made
for the benefit of another.
SEC. 58. n actions and special proceedings of (in) any of the
courts of this State, whenever any of the parties plaintiff
are infants, idiots, lunatics and (or) persons non compos
mentis, whether said infants, idiots, lunatics and (or) per
sons non compos mentis be residents or non-residents of this
State, said infants, idiots, lunatics and (or) persons non
compos mentis, shall appear by their general or testa
mentary guardian, if they have any within the State; and
if there shall be no such guardian, then said infants, idiots,
lunatics and (or) persons non compos mentis maj appear by
their next friend. 
SEC. 59. In all actions and special proceedings in any of the courts
of this State, whenever any or all of the defendants are
infants, idiots, lunatics, or persons non compos mentis, said
infants, idiots, lunatics, or persons non compos mentis shall
defend b}- their general or testamentary guardian, if they
have any within this State, whether said infants, idiots,
lunatics, or persons non compos mentis are residents or non
residents of this State; and, if said infants, idiots, lunatics,
or persons non compos mentis have no general or testament
ary guardian within this State, and any of the defendants
in said action or special proceeding shall have«been sum
moned, and a copy of the complaint has been served on
them, or any of them, or filed according to law, then it
shall be lawful for the court, wherein said action or special
proceeding is pending, upon motion of any of the parties
to the said action or special proceeding, to appoint some
discreet person to act as guardian ad litem, to defend in
behalf of said infants, idiots, lunatics, or persons non com
pos mentis, and such guardian so appointed shall, if the
cause in which he is appointed, be a civil action, file his
answer to the complaint within the time required for other
defendants, unless such time be extended by the court for
good cause, and if the cause in which ho is appointed, be a
special proceeding, a copy of the complaint, with the sum
mons, shall be served on said guardian ad litem, and after
twenty days notice of said summons and complaint in such
special proceeding, and after answer filed as above pro
scribed in such civil action, the court may proceed in the
cause to final judgment and decree therein in the same
manner as if there bad been personal service upon the said
infant, idiot, lunatic, or person non compos mentis, defend
ants, and any decree or judgment in the case shall conclude
the infanf, idiot, lunatic, or person non compos mentis,
defendants, as effectually as if he, or they, bad been person
ally summoned.
SEC. 59a. Whenever any guardian ad litem shall he appointed
under this chapter, the guardian shall file an answer in
said actiun or special proceeding admitting or denying the
allegations thereof, the costs and expenses of which said
answer, in all applications to sell or divide the real estate
of said infants, shall he paid out of the proceeds of the
property, or in case of a division, shall he charged upon
the land, if the sale or division shall he ordered by the
court, and if not ordered in any other manner the court
*hall direct.
SEC. 60. All persons having an interest in the suhject of the
action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined
as plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this title.
SEC. 61. Any person may be made a defendant who has, or claims,
an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or
who is a necessary party to a complete determination or
settlement of the questions involved therein; and in an
action to recover the possession of real estate, the landlord
and tenant thereof may he joined as defendants; and any
persons claiming title or right of possession to real estate,
may he made parties plaintiff or defendant, sis the case
may require, to any such action.
SEC. 62. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in
interest must he joined as plaintiffs or defendants; hut if
the consent of any one who should have heen joined arplaintiff
cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant,
the reason thereof being stated in the complaint ; and when
the question is one of a common or general interest of many
persons, or where the parties may he very numerous, and
it may be impracticable to bring them all before the Court,
one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole.
SEC. 63. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or
instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and
promissory notes, may all or any of. them be included in
the same action at the option of the plaintiff.
SEC. 63a. In all cases of joint contracts of co-partners in trade or
others, suit may be brought and prosecuted on the same,
against any or all of the persons making such contracts.
SEC. 64. 1. No action shall abate by the death, marriage or other
disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In
case of death, marriage (b) or other disability of a party, the
court, on motion at any time within one year thereafter, or
afterwards on a supplemental complaint, may allow the
action to be continued by, or against, his representative or
successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of in
terest, the action shall be continued in the name of the
original party, or the court may allow the person to whom
the transfer is made to be substituted in the action.
2. After a verdict shall be rendered in any action for a
wrong, such action shall not abate by the death of any
party, but the case shall proceed thereafter in the same
manner as in cases where the cause of action now survives
by law.
3. At any time after the death, marriage or other disa
bility of the party plaintiff, the court in which an action is
pending, upon notice to such persons as it may direct, and
upon application of any person aggrieved, may, in its dis
cretion, order that the action be deemed abated, unless the
same be continued by the proper parties, within a time to
be fixed by the court, not less than six months, nor exceed
ing one year from the granting of the order.
4. The provisions of this section shall apply as well to
actions existing at the ratification of this act, as to those
commenced subsequently thereto.
SEC. 65. The court either between the terms, or at a regular term,
according to the nature of the controversy, under the regu
lations contained in this Act, may determine any contro
versy before it, when it can be doue without prejudice to
the rights of others, or by saving their rights ; but when a
complete determination of the controversy cannot be had
without the presence of other parties, the court must cause
them to be brought in.
hen, in an action for the recovery of real or personal
property, a person not a party to the action, but having an
interest in the subject thereof, makes application to the
court to be made a party, it may order him to be brought
in by the proper amendment.
A defendant against whom an action is pending upon
a contract, or for specific real or personal property, may at
any time before answer, upon affidavit, that a person not a
party to the action, and without collusion with him, makes
against him a "demand for the same debt or property, upon
clue notice to such person and the adverse party, apply to'
the court for an order to substitute such person in his place,
and discharge him from liability to either party, on his
depositing in court the amount of the debt, or delivering
the property or its value, to such person as the court may
direct; and the court may, in its discretion, make the
order.
SEC. 66. Actions for the following causes must be tried in the
county in which the subject of the action, or some part
thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the court to
change the place of trial, in the cases provided in this Code.
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or
interest therein, or for the determination in any form, of
such right or interest, and for injuries to real property ;
2. For the partition of real property ;
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property ;
4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for
any cause.
SEC. 67. ctions for the following causes must be tried in the
county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, sub
ject to the like power of the court to change the place of
trial, in the cases provided in this Code ;
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture, imposed
by statute ; except that, when it is imposed for an offence
committed on a sound, bay, river or other body of water
situated in two or more counties, the action may be brought
in any county bordering on such sound, bay, river or other
body of water, and opposite to the place where the offence
was committed ;
2. Against a public officer or person especially appointed
to execute his duties, for an act done by him by virtue of
his office; or against a person who by his command or in
his aid, shall do anything touching the duties of such officer.
SEC. 68. In all other cases the action shall be tried in the County
in which the plaintiffs or defendants, or any of them shall
reside at the commencement of the action ; or. if none of
the defendants shall reside in the State, then in the County
in which the plaintiffs or any of them shall reside ; and if
none of the parties shall reside within the State, then the
sunie may be tried in any county which the plaintiff shall
designate in his summons and complaint, subject, however,
to the power of the court to change the place of trial, in
the cases provided by statute.
SEC. 68a. All suits upon official bonds or against executors and ad
ministrators, in their fiduciary capacity, shall be instituted
in the county where the bonds were, or shall be given, if
the principal, or any of the sureties on the bond, is in the
county ; if not, then in the plaintiff's county.
SEC. 68b. The "venue" in actions against railroad corporations shall
be laid in some county wherein the track of said company,
or some of it, is situated.
SEC. 69. If the county designated for that purpose in the sum
mons and complaint be not the proper county, the action,
may, notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the defend
ant, before the time of answering expires, demand in writ
ing that the trial be had in the proper county, and the
place of trial be thereupon changed by consent of parties,
or by order of the court, as is provided in this section.
The court may change the place of trial in the follow
ing cases :
1. When the county designated for that purpose is not
the proper county.
2. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of
justice would be promoted by the change.«
When the place of trial is changed, all other proceed
ings shall be had in the county to which the place of trial
is changed, unless otherwise provided by the consent of the
parties in writing duly filed, or order of court; and the
papers shall be filed or transferred accordingly.
SEC. 69a. Cpon the application of any party plaintiff or defendant,
it shall be the duty of the Judges of the Superior Courts
in this State, in their respective judicial districts, to order
the transfer and removal of any suit, action or cause pend
ing in the courts of their said districts, in which such
Judge shall have been, at any time, interested as party, or
employed or otherwise engaged as counsel, to some county
in an adjoining judicial district, to be agreed upon by the
parties to such suit, action or cause, for trial : Provided,
that, if the parties cannot agree upon a county to which
such suit, action or cause may be transferred or removed,
the Judge of the Court shall order the transfer and removal
of such suit, action or cause, to some county adjoining,
and nearest to his judicial district: Provided further, that
if the Judge be interested as a party in any such suit, ac
tion or cause, he shall, upon application of any other party
to the suit, order the transfer and removal of such suit, ac
tion or cause, to some county in an adjoining district, where
the term of the court will not interfere with the judicial
duties of the Judge making such order.
SEC. 70. Civil actions in the Superior Courts of this State shall be
commenced by the issuing of a summons.
SEC. 71. The summons shall be issued by a Clerk of any Superior
Court at the request of the plaintiff, but before issuing it,
the clerk shall require of the plaintiff, either to give a
bond, with sufficient security, in the sum of two hundred
dollars, with the condition that the same shall he void if
the plaintiff shall pay the defendant all such costs as the
defendant shall recover of him in the action ; or to deposit
a like sum with him as a security to the defendant for such
costs, and in case of such deposit he shall give to the plain
tiff and to the defendant a certificate to that efi'ect ; or to
file with him a written authority from some Judge or Clerk
of a Superior Court authorizing the plaintiff to sue as a
pauper.
SEC. 72. Any Judge, Justice of the Peace, or Clerk of the Supe
rior Court, may authorize any person to sue as a pauper in
their respective courts, when he shall prove by one or more
witnesses that he has a good cause of action, and shall
make affidavit that he is unable to comply with the provi
sions of the last section. Whenever any person shall sue
as a pauper, no officer shall require of him any fee, and he
shall recover no costs.
SEC. 72a. The court to which such writ (summons) is returnable,
may, in its discretion, assign to the person suing as a
pauper learned counsel, who shall prosecute his suit.
SEC. 73. The summons shall run in the natne of the State, be
signed by the clerk of a Superior Court, under the seal of
his court, and be directed to the sheriff of the county in
which the defendant resides or may be found, or in case
such sheriff he a party to, or interested in, the action, it
may be directed to the coroner of that county, or to the
sheriff of any adjoining county. It shall command the
officer to summon the defendant to appear at the office of
the Clerk of the Superior Court for some certain county,
within a certain number of days after the service, exclu
sive of the day of service, to answer the complaint of the
plaintiff. It shall be dated on the day of its issue.
SEC. 73a. The summons (in civil actions) shall run in the name of
the State, be signed by the clerk of the Superior Court,
having jurisdiction to try the action and under the seal of
the court, and shall be directed to the Sheriff of the county
in which the defendant resides, or may be found. 'It shall
be returnable to the regular term of the Superior Court of
the county where the plaintiffs, or one or more of them, or
the defendants, reside ; and shall command the sheriff or
other proper officer, to summon the defendant to appear at
the next ensuing term of the Superior Court and answer
the complaint of the plaintiff, and shall be dated on the
day of its issue. The officer to whom the summons is ad
dressed, shall note on it the day of its delivery to him, and
shall execute it at least ten days before the beginning of
the term to which it shall be returnable, and shall return
it on the first day of the term.
SEC. 74. There shall also be inserted in the summons, a notice in
substance as follows :
1. That if the defendant shall fail to answer the com-
plaint within the time specified, the plaintiff will apply to
the court for the relief demanded in the complaint. The
clerk before whom the defendant shall be summoned to
appear, shall be the Clerk of the Superior Court of the
county in which it is provided in Title VI, that the action
shall be tried.
2. The number of days within which the defendant is
summoned to appear, shall, in no case, be less than twenty,
exclusive of the day of service, to which one day shall be
added for every tweuty-five miles of distance, between the
court-house of the county in which the service is made,
and the court-house of the county at which the defendant
is required to appear, by the usual route of travel.
SEC. 75. The officer to whom the summons is addressed shall note
on it the day of its delivery to him, and execute it within
ten days after its receipt by him. Before proceeding to
execute it, he shall be entitled to require of the plaintiff
his fee for the service, and five cents per mile of the dis
tance from the court-house of his county, to the usual resi
dence of the defendant, or other place in which he may be
found in the county; if required by the plaintiff he shall
execute the writ immediately, and in that case he shall be
entitled in like manner, to require ten cents per mile, mea
sured as aforesaid. When executed he shall immediately
return the writ, with the date and manner of its execution,
by mail or otherwise, to the clerk of the proper court.
SEC. 76.  copy of the complaint may or may not be served with
the summons. In either case the plaintiff" must file a copy
thereof, with the clerk of the court before which the de
fendant is summoned to appear, within ten days from the
issuing of the summons ; and in case no copy shall have
been issued with the summons, he shall also, within the said
time, file with the clerk another copy thereof, addressed to,
and for the use of, the defendant, or if there be several
defendants, a copy for each of them, provided however, that
if several defendants appear by one attorney, one copy only
need be filed for all who so appear. 
SEC. 76a. The plaintiff shall file his complaint in the clerk's office,
on or before the third day of the term to which the action
is brought. Otherwise the suit shall, on motion, he dis
missed at the cost of the plaintiff.
SEC. 76b. In all cases of special proceedings it shall be sufficient
for the plaintiff to file his complaint or petition with the
clerk of the court where the summons is returnable,' at the
time of issuing the summons, or within ten days thereaf
ter, and it shall not be necessary to file, or have served»with
the summons, any copy thereof.
SEC. 77. If the plaintiff shall fail to file his complaint within ten
days after the issuing of his summons, then the defendant
may, at any time before the filing of such complaint, and
within the time limited for his appearance, enter an appear
ance specifying where within the State, a copy of the com
plaint may be served on him, and the plaintiff at his own
expense, shall cause such copy to be served within sixty
days ; and the defendant shall not be required to answer
until the twentieth day after such service.
SEC. 78. If the plaintiff shall fail to file his complaint within the
time limited by the summons, for the appearance and
answer of the defendant, or by the preceding section, the
defendant shall be entitled to demand judgment of non-suit
against the plaintiff.
SEC. 79. The time for filing the complaint or of any pleading
whatever, may be enlarged by the court for good cause
shown by affidavit, but it shall not bo enlarged by more
than twenty additional days nor more than once, unless the
default shall have been occasioned by accident over which
the party applying had no control, or by the fraud of_the
opposing party ; and in all cases in which the time shall be
enlarged unless upon the ground of such accident or fraud,
the party making the application shall pay into court for
the use of the opposing party five dollars, which shall not
in any event be recovered back. Three days' notice must
be given of the motion to enlarge.
SEC. 80. t the time of filing his complaint the plaintiff, and at
the time of filing his answer, the defendant, shall name some
place and person in the county town in which the court to
which the action is brought is held, where and upon whom,
services of pleadings and notices in the action may be
served ; and if either shall fail to do so, the filing of all such
pleadings and notices in the office of the clerk of the court
shall be deemed sufficient service on the day of such filing,
unless the party shall in writing on the copy of his com
plaint, or answer, or by other written notice, served on the
adverse party, require personal service thereof, at a place
named by him within the county, aud shall deposit with
the clerk a sum sufficient to pay the expense of such per
sonal service ; in which case, the personal service shall be
made at his expense.
SEC. 81. In case of a defendant against whom no personal claim
is made, the plaintiff may deliver to such defendant with
the summons, a notice subscribed by the plaintiff or his
attorney, setting forth the general object of the action, a
brief description of the property affected by it, if it affects
real or personal property, and that no personal claim is
made against such defendant^ in which case no copy of the
complaint need be served on such defendant, unless within
the time for answering, he shall in writing demand the
same. If a defendant on whom such notice is served,
uureasonably defend the action, he shall pay costs to the
plaintiff.
SEC. 82. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof
as follows :
1. If a suit be against a corporation, to the president, or
other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer,
a director or managing agent thereof ; and any person re
ceiving or collecting moneys within this State for or on
behalf of any corporation of this, or any other* State or
government shall be deemed a local agent for the purposes
of this section ; but such service can he made in respect to
a foreign corporation, only when it has property within the
State, or the cause of action arose therein, or when the
plaintiff resides in the State, or when such service can be
made within this State personally upon the president, treas
urer or secretary thereof;
2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years to
such minor personally, and also his father, mother or guar dian,
or if there be none within the State, then to any per
son having the care and control of such minor, or with
whom he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be
employed ;
3. If against a person judicially declared to be of un
sound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs in
consequence of habitual drunkenness and for whom a com-
mittee or guardian has been appointed, to such committee
and to the defendant personally;
4. In all other cases, to the defendant personally.
SEC. 82a. The summons shall be served in all cases where copies
are now required by law to be delivered, by the sheriff or
other officer reading the same to the party or parties named
as defendants, and such reading of the same shall be a legal
and sufficient service of the summons, without delivering
of a copy of the same.
SEC. 82b. Service of summons upon a rail road corporation, shall
be made by leaving a copy of such summons with the pre
sident, secretary or treasurer of said cdmpany ; or, in case,
such officers are not to be found, at their usual place of
office, then by leaving a copy thereof with some person of
competent age, in the office of the president of such com
pany.
SEC. 83. Where the person on whom the service of the summons
is to be made, cannot, after due diligence, be found within
the State, and that fact appears by affidavit to the satisfac
tion of the court, or a judge thereof, and it in like man-
ner appears that a cause of action exists against the defen-
dant in respect to whom the service is to be made, or that
he is a proper party to an action relating to real property 
in this State, such court or judge may grant an order that 
the service be made by the publication of a summons in 
either of the following cases: ^
1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has
property within the State, or the cause of action arose
therein ;
2. Where the defendant, being a resident of this State,
has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his credi
tors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself
concealed therein with a like intent;
3. Where he is not a resident of this State, but has prop
erty therein, and the court has jurisdiction of the subject
of the action ;
4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal
property in this State, and the defendant has or claims a
lien or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the relief
demanded consists wholly or partly, in excluding the defen
dant from any lien or interest therein ;
. Where the action is for divorce, in the cases pre
scribed by law ;
And in all cases where publication is made, .the com
plaint must be first filed, and the summons, as published,
must state the time and place of such filing
SEC. 84. The order must direct the publication in any one or two
newspapers to be designated as most likely to give notice
to the person to be served, and for such length of time as
may be deemed reasonable, not less than once a week for
six weeks. ^In case of publication the court or judge must
also direct a copy of* the summons and complaint to be
forthwith deposited in the post office, directed to the person
to be served, at his place of residence, unless it appears that
such residence is neither known to the party making the
application, nor can with reasonable diligence be ascer
tained by himJ When publication is ordered personal ser
vice of a copy of the summons and complaint, out of the
State, is equivalent to publication and deposit in the post
office.
SEC. 84a. In all cases wherein service by publication is now pro
vided for by law, it shall be sufficient to publish in any one
or two newspapers, to be designated by the court, a notice,
giving the title of the action, the purpose of the same, and
requiring the defendant to appear and answer or demur to
the complaint at the time and place therein mentioned ;
and no publication of the summons, nor mailing of the sum
mons and complaint, shall be deemed necessary.
SEC. 85. The defendant against whom publication is ordered, or
his representatives, on application and sufficient causes
shown at any time before judgment, must be allowed to
defend the action ; and, except in an action for divorce,
the defendant again&t whom publication is ordered, or his
representatives, may in like manner, upon good cause
shown, be allowed to defend after judgment, or at any
time within one year after notice thereof, and within five
years after its rendition, on such terms as may be just ;
and if the defence be successful and the jndgment, or any
part thereof, have been collected, or otherwise enforced,
such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court
may direct ; but the title to property, sold under such judg-
ment to a purchaser in good faith, shall not be thereby
affected.
SEC. 86. In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate,
already instituted, or hereafter to be instituted, if any party
having any interest in or lien upon such mortgaged pre
mises, is unknown to the plaintiff, and the residence of such
party cannot, with reasonable diligence, be ascertained by
him, and such fact shall be made to appear by affidavit, to
the court, such court may grant an order that the summons
be served on such unknown party by publishing the same
for six weeks once in each week successively, in one news
paper printed in Raleigh, and in a newspaper printed in
the county where the premises lie, if there be any, which
publication shall be equivalent to a personal service on
such unknown party.
SEC. 87. here the action is against two or more defendants, and
the summons is served on one or more of them, but not on
all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows:
1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted
upon contract, he may proceed against the defendants
served, unless the court otherwise direct ; and if he recover
judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants
thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced
against the joint property of all, and the separate property
of the defendants served, and if they are subject to arrest,
against the persons of the defendants served; or
2. If the action be against defendants severally liable,
he may proceed against the defendants served, in the same
manner as if they were the only defendants;
3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment
may be taken against any or either of them severally, when
the plaintiff would be entitled to judgment against such
defendant or defendants if the action had been against
them, or any of them, alone ;
4. If the name of one or more partners, shall, for any
cause have been omitted in any action in which judgment
shall have passed against the defendants named in the sum-
i iuons, and such omission shall not have been pleaded in
such action, the plaintiff in case the judgment therein shall
remain unsatisfied, may by action recover of such partner
separately, upon proving his joint liability, notwithstanding
he may not have been named in the original action ; but
the plaintiff shall have satisfaction of only one judgment
rendered for the same cause of action.
SEC. 88. In the cases in which service by publication is allowed,
the summons shall be deemed served at the expiration of
the time prescribed by the order of publication.
SEC. 89. Proof of the service of the summons and of the com
plaint or notice, if any, accompanying the same, must be:
1. By the certificate of the sheriff or other proper officer.
2. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer,
or his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same, and
an affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the
post office as required by law, if the same shall have been
deposited; or
3. The written admission of the defendant.
In case of service otherwise than by publication, the cer
tificate or admission must state the time and place of ser
vice.
SEC. 90. From the time of the service of the summons in a civil
action, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the court
is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have con
trol of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary ap
pearance of a defendant is equivalent to personal service of
the summons upon him.
In action affecting the title to real property, the plain
tiff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at any time after
wards, or whenever a warrant of attachment, under (Title
IX, Chapter IV) of this Code, shall be issued or at any time
afterwards ; or a defendant—when he sets up an affirmative
cause of action in his answer and demands substantive
relief—at the time of filing his answer, or at any time after
wards, may file with the clerk of each county in which the
property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action,
containing the names of the parties, the object of the action,
and the description of the property in that county affected
thereby ; and if the action be for the foreclosure of a mort
gage, such notice must be filed twenty days before judg
ment, and must contain the date of the mortgage, the par
ties thereto, and the time and place of recording the same.
From the time of filing only, shall the pendency of the action
be constructive notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of
the property affected thereby ; and every person whose con
veyance or incumbrance is subsequently executed or sub
sequently recorded, shall be deemed a subsequent purchaser
or incumbrancer, and shall be bound by all proceedings
taken after the filing of such notice, to the same extent as
if he were made a party to the action. For the purposes
of this section, an action shall be deemed to be pending
from the time of filing such notice; provided, however,
that such notice shall be of no avail unless it shall he followed by the publication of the summons or an order there
for, or by the personal service thereof on a defendant, within
sixty days after such filing. And the court in which the
said action was commenced may, in its discretion, at any
time after the action shall be settled, discontinued, or
abated, as is provided in section sixty-four (§ 64) on appli
cation of any person aggrieved, and on good cause shown,
and on such notice as shall be directed or approved by the
court, order the notice authorized by this section to be can
celed of record by the clerk of any county in whose office
the same may have been filed or recorded ; and such can
cellation shall be made by an indorsement to that effect on
the margin of the recurd, which shall refer to the order,
and for which the clerk shall be entitled to a tee of twentyfive
cents. 
SEC. 90a. In all cases where the Superior Court in vacation has
jurisdiction under the existing laws of the State, and all of
the parties unite in the proceedings, they may apply for
relief to the Superior Court in vacation or in term time, at
their election.
SEC. 91. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing are abol
ished ; and hereafter, the forms of pleading in civil actions
in courts of record, and the rules by which the sufficiency
of the pleadings is to be determined, are those prescribed
by this Code.
SEC. 92. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is the com
plaint.
SEC. 93. The complaint shall contain :
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the
court in which the action is brought, the name of the county
iu which the trial is required to be had, and the names of
the parties to the action, plaintiff and defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting
a cause of action, without unnecessary repetition ; and each
material allegation shall be distinctly numbered.
3. A demand of the relief to which the plantitf supposes
himself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded,
the amount thereof must be stated.
SEC. 94. The only pleading on the part of the defendant is either
a demurrer or an answer. It must be filed in the office of
the clerk of the court before which the defendant is sum
moned to appear, together with a copy thereof for the plaintiff, within ten days after the time limited for the appear
ance of the defendant : a copy thereof must be served on
the attorney of the plaintiff if he shall have named one in
the county town, in lien of filing one for him in the clerk's
office; or on the plaintiff personally, if he shall have com
plied with the provisions of section eighty (80.) If the
plaintiff shall have failed to file his complaint within the
time limited for that purpose, the defendant may move for
judgment of non-suit.
SEC. 95. The defendant may demur to the complaint when it shall
appear upon the face thereof, either ;
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant, or the subject of the action ; or
2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue; or,
3. That there is another action pending between the
same parties for the same cause; or,
4. That therejs a defect of parties plaintiff or defend
ant ; or,
5. That several causes of action have been improperly
united; or,
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
SEC. 96. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of ob
jection to the complaint. Unless it does so, it may be dis
regarded. It may be taken to the whole complaint, or to
any of the alleged causes of action stated therein.
SEC. 97. If the complaint be amended a copy thereof must be
served on the defendant in the manner provided in section
eighty (§ 80), for the service of pleadings and notices after
appearance, within twenty days after the leave to amend.
SEC. 98. When any of the matters enumerated in section ninetyfive
(§ 95) do not appear upon the face of the complaint,
the objection may be taken by answer.
SEC. 99. If no such objection be taken either by demurrer or
answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the
same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of
the court, and the objection that the complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
SEC. 99a. In all suits in the Superior Courts for the recovery of real
property or the possession thereof, the defendant, before he
is permitted to plead, answer or demur, shall execute and
file in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court of the
county wherein the suit is pending, a bond with good and
sufficient securities for the 6um of two hundred dollars, to
be void upon condition that the defendant pay to the plain
tiff all such costs and damages as the said plaintiff may
recover in the action.
SEC. 99b. In all cases in which the said action or suit has been com
menced but not determined, and the said bond has not been
filed, the same shall be done upon the plaintiff, or his at
torney, giving ten days' notice to the defendant to file the
same.
SEC. 99c. t shall be lawful for the plaintiff or his attorney to re
quire the securities in sections one and two of this act (§§
99a and 996) to justify, or the defendant give better security.
SEC. 99d. pon failure of the defendant to file the bond as required
by sections one and two, (§§99« and 996) or upon failure of
the securities to justify, as required by section three (§99c)
of this act, the plaintiff shall have judgment and execu
tion for the relief demanded in the complaint : Provided,
That no defendant shall be required to give said bond, if
any attorney practicing in the court, where the action is
pending, will certify to the court in writing that he has
examined the case of the defendant, and that, in hi* opinion,
the plaintiff is not entitled to recover, and said defendant
shall further file an affidavit that he is nnable to give said
bond.
SEC. 100. The answer of the defendant must contain :
1. A general or specific denial of each material allega
tion of the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of
any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a
belief;
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defence
or counter-claim, in ordinary and concise language, with
out repetition.
SEC. 101. The counter-claim mentioned in the last section, must be
one existing in favor of a defendant, and against a plain
tiff, between whom a several judgment might be had in
the action, and arising out of one of the following causes of
action ;
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or trans
action set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the
plaintiff's claim, or connected with the subject of the action.
2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of
action arising also on contract, and existing at the com
mencement of the action.
SEC. 102. The defendant may set forth by answer as many defences
and counter-claims as he may have, whether they be such
as have been heretofore denominated legal, or equitable, or
both. They must each be separately stated and numbered,
and refer to the cause of action which they are intended
to answer, in such manner that they may be intelligibly
distinguished.
SEC. 103. The defendant may demur to one or more of several
causes of action stated in the complaint, and answer to the
residue. 
SEC. 104. Sham and irrelevant answers and defences may be
stricken out on motion, and upon such terms as the court
may, in its discretion, impose.
SEC. 105. When the answer contains new matter constituting a
counter-claim, the plaintiff may, within twenty days, reply
to such new matter, denying generally or specifically each
allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge or infor
mation thereof sufficient to form a belief; and he may
allege, in ordinary and concise language, without repeti
tion, any new matter not inconsistent with the complaint,
constituting a defence to such new matter in the answer;
and the plaintiff may, in all cases, demur to an answer con
taining new matter, where upon its face it does not consti
tute a counter-claim or defence; and the plaintiff may
demur to one or more of such defences or counter-claims
and reply to the residue of the counter-claims. And in
other cases, when an answer contains new matter constitu
ting a defence hy way of avoidance, the court may, in its
discretion, on the defendant's motion, require a reply to
such new matter ; and, in that case, the reply shall be sub
ject to the same rules as a reply to a counter-claim.
SEC. 105a. The plaintiff shall join issue on tiie demurrer or reply to
the answer at the same term to which such demurrer or
answer may lie filed; ami the issues, whether, of law or
fact, shall stand for trial at the next term succeeding the
term at which the pleadings are completed.
SEC. 106. If the answer contain a statement of new matter consti
tuting a counter-claim, and the plaintiff' fail to reply or
demur thereto within twenty days after the filing or ser
vice of such answer, the defendant may move for such
judgment as he is entitled to upon such statement; and if
the ease require it, an order for an inquiry of damages by a
jury may he made.
SEC. 107. If a reply of the plaintiff to any defence set up by the
answer of the defendant be insufficient, the defendant may
demur thereto, and shall state the grounds thereof.
SEC. 108. The Clerk of the Superior Court shall have jurisdiction
to hear and decide on all questions of practice and pro
cedure, arising in actions brought to this court, and on all
other matters whereof jurisdiction is hereby given to the
Superior Court, unless the judge of said court, or the court
at a regular term thereof bo expressly referred to.
SEC. 109. Any party may appeal from any decision of the clerk to
the judge of the court, without bond.
SEC. 109a. Appeals to the Superior Court from courts inferior thereto,
and appeals from the clerks of the Superior Court acting as
judges of probate or otherwise, shall be to the next succeed
ing term of said Superior Court.
SEC. 110. On such appeal being prayed, the clerk, within three days
thereafter, shall prepare a statement of the facts of the case,
of his decision, and of the appeal, and shall sign the same;
he shall, within the time aforesaid, exhibit such statement
to the parties or their attorneys on request ; if such state
ment is satisfactory, the parties or their attorneys shall sign
the same; if either party object to the statement as partial
or erroneous, he may put his objections in writing, and the
clerk shall attach such writing to his statement, and within
two days thereafter he shall send such statement, together
with the objections, and copies of all necessary papers, by
mail or otherwise it' necessary, to the judge for his decision.
SEC. 111. When any issue of law shall be joined on the pleadings
before the clerk, he shall, within ten days thereafter, send
by mail, or otherwise, if necessary, to the judge of the
court, a copy of the record, for hearing and decision by
him.
SEC. 112. The attorney of either party may endorse on the state
ment of any appeal, or <>n the copy of the record of any
issue sent to the judge, a request to be heard before him on
such matter.
SEC. 113. It shall be the duty of the judge on receiving a state
ment of appeal from the clerk, or the copy of the record of
an issue of law, to decide the questions presented as early
a* may be. But if he shall have been informed in writing,
by the attorney of either party, that he desires to be heard
on the questions, the judge shall fix a time and place for
feuch hearing, and give the attorneys of both parties rea
sonable notice thereof. He shall transmit his decision in
writing, endorsed on, or attached to, the record, to the clerk
of the court, who shall immediately acknowledge the receipt
thereof, and within three days after such receipt, notify
the attorneys of the parties of the decision, and on request
and the payment of his legal fees, give them a copy thereof ;
and the parties receiving such notice, may proceed there
after according to law. But no judge shall be required to
return any transcript, decision or appeal, order made on
motion or petition, or other matter to the clerk, or another
party, unless there shall have been forwarded to him suffi
cient money or stamps to defray the postage on said returns.
SEC. 114. The judge shall keep a docket, in which shall be entered
the title of every case brought in any manner before him
out of term, every motion made therein before him, and a
copy of every order and judgment rendered by him ; and
in case the original of any order or judgment of such judge,
shall be lost or destroyed, a copy from such docket, certi
fied by the judge, shall be received as evidence of such or
der or judgment in place of the original, and with the same
effect, for all purposes.
SEC. 115. The said judgment on issues of fact shall be final ; any
party within ten days after notice of such judgment may
pray an appeal to the Supreme Court of the State from
such judgment, upon any matter of law or legal inference
therein, under the regulations provided for appeals in other
cases. But execution shall not be suspended until the un
dertakings required by the provisions of Title XIII of this
Code, entitled " Of Appeals in Civil Actions," shall have
been given as required.
SEC. 116. very pleading in a court of record, must he subscribed
by the party or his attorney ; and, when any pleading is
verified, every subsequent pleading, except a demurrer,
must be verified also.
SEC. 117. The verification must be to the effect that the same is
true to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to
those matters stated on information and belief, and as to
those matters he believes it to be true ; and must be by
affidavit of the party, or if there be several parties united
in interest, and pleading together, by one at least of such
parties acquainted with the facts, if such party be within
the county where the attorney resides, and capable of mak-
ing the affidavit. The affidavit may also be made by the
agent or attorney, if the action or defence be founded upon
a written instrument for the payment of money only, and
such instrument be in the possession of the agent or at
torney, or if all the material allegations of the pleading be
within the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney'.
When the pleading is verified by any other person than the
party, he shall set forth in the affidavit his knowledge, or
the grounds of his belief on the subject, and the reasons
why it is not made by the party. When a corporation is a
party, the verification may be made by any officer thereof;
and, when the State, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is
a party, the verification may be made by any person ac
quainted with the facts. The verification may be omitted
when an admission of the truth of the allegation might sub
ject the party to prosecution for felony. And no pleading
can be used in a criminal prosecution against the party, as
proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading.
SEC. 118. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a
pleading the items of an account therein alleged ; but he
shall deliver to the adverse party, within ten days after a
demand thereof in writing, a copy of the account, which,
if the pleading is verified, must be verified by his own
oath, or that of his agent or attorney, if within the per
sonal knowledge of such agent or attorney, to the effect that
he believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evi
dence thereof. The court, or the judge thereof, may order
a further'account when the one delivered is defective; and
the court may, in all cases, order a bill of particulars of the
claim of either party to be furnished.
SEC. 119. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of deter
mining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed,
with a view of (to) substantial justice between the parties.
SEC. 120. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a plead
ing, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person ag
grieved thereby. And when the allegations of a pleading
are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the
charge or defence is not apparent, the court may require
the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment.
SEC. 121. Id pleading a judgment or other determination of a court
or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment
or determination may be stated to have been duly given or
made. If such allegation be controverted-, the party plead
ing shall be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts con
ferring jurisdiction.
SEC. 122. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a
contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing
such performance; but it may be stated generally that the
party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall
be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing such
performance. In an action or defence founded upon an
instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be suf
ficient for the party to give a copy of the instrument, and
to state that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse
party, a specified sum which he claims.
SEC. 123. In pleading a private statute or a right derived there
from, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute, by its title and the day of its ratification, and the court shall
thereupon take judicial notice thereof.
SEC. 124. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary
to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts, for the purpose
of showing the application to the plaintiff, of the defama
tory matter out of which the cause of action arose; but it
shall be sufficient to state generally that the same was pub
lished or spoken concerning the plaintiff; and if such alle
gation be controverted, the plaintiff shall be bound to es
tablish, on trial, that it was so published or spoken.
SEC. 125. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defend
ant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter
charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances to
reduce the amount of damages; and whether he prove the
justification or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating
circumstances.
SEC. 126. The plaintiff may unite in the same complaint several
causes of action, whether they be such as has-e been here
tofore denominated legal, or equitable, or both, where they
all arise out of,
1. The same transaction ; or transactions connected with
the same subject of action ;
. Contract express or implied ; or
3. Injuries with, or without force, to person and property,
or either ; or
4. Injuries to character ; or
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without dam
ages for the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits
of the same ; or
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without
damages for the withholding thereof ; or
. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by
operation of law.
But the causes of action so united must all belong to one
of these classes, and except in actions for the foreclosure of
mortgages, must affect all the parties to the action, and not
require different places of trial, (6) and must be separately
stated. In actions to foreclose mortgages, the court shall
have power to adjudge and direct the payment by the mort
gagor of any residue of the mortgage debt that may remain
unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged premises, fn cases
in which the mortgagor shall be personally liable for the
debt secured by such mortgage; and if the mortgage debt
be secured by the covenant or obligation of any person
other than the mortgagor, the plaintiff may make such
person a party to the action, and the court may adjudge
payment of the residue of such debt remaining unsatisfied
after a sale of the mortgaged premises, against such other
person, and may enforce such judgment as in other cases.
SEC. 127. Every material allegation of the complaint not contro
verted by the answer, as prescribed in section ninety-seven,
(§ 97) and every material allegation of new matter in the
answer, constituting a counter-claim, not controverted by
the reply, as prescribed in section one hundred and one,
(§ 101) shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true.
But the allegation of new matter in the answer, not relating
to a counter claim, or of new matter in reply, is to be
deemed controverted by the adverse party as upon a direct
denial or avoidance, as the case may require.
SEC. 128. o variance between the allegations in a pleading and
the proof shall be deemed material, unless it have actually
misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining
his action upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged
that a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved
to the satisfaction of the court, and in what respect he has
been misled ; and thereupon the judge may order the plead
ing to be amended, upon such terms as shall be just.
SEC. 129. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the
last section, the Judge may direct the fact to be found ac-
cording to the evidence, or may order an immediate amend
ment without costs.
SEC. 130. here, however, the allegation of the cause of action or
defence to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in
some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope
and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance
within the last sections, but a failure of proof.
SEC. 131. Any pleading may be once amended by the party of
course, without costs and without prejudice to the pro-
ceedings already had, at any time before the period for
answering it expires; or it can be so amended at any time
within twenty days after the service of the answer or de
murrer to such pleading, unless it be made to appear to the
court that it was done for the purpose of delay, and that
the plaintiff or defendant will thereby lose the benefit of a
term for which the cause is, or may be, docketed for trial ;
and if it appear to the court or judge that such amend
ment was made for such purpose, the same may be stricken
out, and such terms imposed as to the court or judge may
seem just. In such case, a copy of tho amended pleading
must be served on the adverse party. After the decision
of a demurrer, the judge shall, if it appear that the de
murrer was interposed in good faith, allow the party to
plead over, upon such terms as may be just. If the de
murrer be allowed for the reason that several causes of
action have been improperly united, the judge may, in his
discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, order the
action to be divided into as many actions as may be neces
sary to the proper determination of the causes of action
therein mentioned.
SEC. 132. The court may, before, and the judge may, after judg
ment, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may
be proper, amend any pleading, process or proceeding, by
adding, or striking out, the name of any party ; or, by cor
recting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in
any other respect; or, by inserting other allegations mate
rial to the case ; or, when the amendment does not change
substantially the claim or defence, by conforming the plead
ing or proceeding, to the facts proved.
SEC. 133. The judge may likewise in his discretion, and upon such
terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be made,
or other act to be done, after the time limited by this act,
or by an order enlarge such time ; and may also in his dis
cretion, and upon such terms as may be just, at any time
within one year alter notice thereof, relieve a party from a
judgment, order, or other proceeding, taken against him
through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable
neglect, and may supply an omission in any proceeding ;
and whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails to
conform in any respect to the provisions of this Code,
the judge may, in like manner and upon like terms, permit
an amendment of such proceeding, so as to make it con
formable thereto.
SEC. 134. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name of a
defendant, such defendant may be designated in any plead
ing or proceeding by name; and, when his true name shall
be discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended
accordingly.
SEC. 135. The court and the judge thereof, shall, in every stage of
action, disregard any error of defect in the pleadings or pro
ceedings, which shall not affect the substantial rights of
the adverse party; and no judgmeut shall be reversed or
affected by reason of such error or defect.
SEC. 136. The plaintiff and defendant respectively may be allowed
on motion to make a supplemental complaint, answer or
reply, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after
the former complaint, answer or reply, or of which the
party was ignorant when his former pleading was made,
and either party may, by leave of the court, in any pend
ing or future action, set up by a supplemental pleading,
the judgment or decree of any court of competent juris
diction, rendered since the commencement of such action,
determining the matter in controversy in said action or any
part thereof, and if said judgment be set up by the plain
tiff, the same shall be without prejudice to any provisional
remedy theretofore issued or other proceedings had, in said
action, on his behalf.
SEC. 137. At the first meeting of the county commissioners of each
county, after the election or appointment of any clerk of a
Superior Court, it shall be the duty of the clerk to deliver
to such commissioners, a bond with sufficient sureties, to
be approved by them, in a penalty of ten thousand dollars,
payable to the State of North Carolina, and with a con
dition to be void if he shall account for, and pay over, ac
cording to law, all monies and effects which have come or
may come into his hands, by virtue or color of his office,
and shall diligently preserve and take care of all books,
records, papers and property which have come or may
come into his possession, by virtue or color of his office,
and shall in all things faithfully perform the duties of his
office as they are, or thereafter shall be, prescribed by law.
Each surety shall take and subscribe an oath before the Reg
ister of Deeds, that he is worth a certain sum (which shall
not be less than one thousand dollars) over and above all
his debts and liabilities and his homestead exemption, and
the sums thus sworn to shall not be less in the aggregate,
than the penalty of the bond.
SEC. 138. The approval of said bond, by the commissioners or a
majority of them, shall be recorded by their clerk. Any
commissioner approving a bond which he knows or believes
to be insufficient, shall be personally liable as if he were a
surety thereto. The said bond shall be acknowledged by
the parties thereto, or proved by a subscribing witness, be
fore the clerk of said commissioners, or their presiding offi
cer, registered in the Register's office in a separate hook to
be kept bj him for the registration of official bonds; and
the original, with the approval thereof endorsed, deposited
with the register for safe-keeping. The like remedies shall
be had upon said bond, as are, or may be, given by law on
official bonds.
SEC. 139. he clerks of the Superior Court, before entering on the
duties of their office, shall take and subscribe, before some
officer authorized by law to administer an oath, the oaths
prescribed by law, and file such oath with the Register of
Deeds for the county.
SEC. 140. In case any clerk shall fail to give bond and qualify as
above directed, the presiding officer of the county commis
sioners of his county, shall immediately inform the judge
of the judicial district thereof, who shall thereupon declare
the office vacant and fill the same, and the appointee shall
give bond and qualify as above directed.
SEC. 141. ie shall have an office, in the court-house or other place
provided by the county commissioners, in the county town
of his county. He shall give due attendance, in person or
by deputy at his office daily (Sundays and holidays ex
cepted), from nine o'clock A. M., to three o'clock P. M.
and longer when necessary for the despatch of business.
SEC. 142. Immediately after he shall have given bond and qualified
as aforesaid, he shall receive from the late clerks of the
county ami superior courts and clerk and master of the
court of equity, all the records, books, papers, monies and
property of their respective offices, and give receipts for the
same, and if any clerk, or clerk and master, shall refuse, or
fail within a reasonable time after demand, to deliver such
records, books, papers and property, they shall be respec
tively liable on their official bonds, for the value thereof,
and be held guilty of a misdemeanor.
SEC. 143. He shall be furnished with the requisite stationery and
furniture, for official use, by the county commissioners, ex
cept as hereinafter provided. He shall keep in bound vol
umes a complete and faithful record of all his official acts,
and give copies thereof to all persons desiring them, on
payment of the legal fees.
SEC. 144. Each clerk shall keep the following books :
1. A docket of all writs, summons or other original pro
cesses issued by him, or returned to his office ; this docket
shall contain a brief note of every proceeding whatever in
each action, up to the final judgment, inclusive.
2. A judgment docket in which the substance of the
judgment shall be recorded, and every proceeding subse
quent thereto, noted.
3. A docket of all issues of fact joined upon the plead
ings, and of all other matters tor hearing before the judge
at a regular term of the court, a copy of which shall be
furnished to the judge at the commencement of each term.
4. An alphabetical index according to the names of the
plaintiffs, of all final judgments in civil actions rendered
in the court, with the dates and numbers thereof, and also
of all final judgments rendered in other courts, and author
ized by law to be entered on his judgment docket.
5. A docket of all criminal actions, containing a note of
every proceeding in each.
SEC. 145. The books specified in the above section shall be supplied
to the clerks of the several counties by the Secretary of
State, at the expense of the State, and the Secretary shall,
as 6oon as possible, transmit an account thereof to the pre
siding officer of the county commissioners, in order that
the price may be levied in the county taxes ; and also to
the Auditor of Public Accounts, who shall add the same to
the taxes of the respective counties and receive and account
for it as for other taxes. The commissioners of any county
failing to cause such sum to be levied, with the other county
taxes, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
SEC. 146. They (he) shall keep the papers in each action, in a sepa
rate roll or bundle, and at its termination, attach them to
gether, properly labeled, and file them in the order of the
date of the final judgment.
SEC. 147. At every regular term of the Superior Court, the solici
tor for the judicial district shall inspect the office of the
clerk, and report to the court in writing. If any clerk,
after being furnished with the necessary books, shall fail to
keep them up, a* required by law, he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and the solicitor shall cause him to be pro
secuted for the same. If any solicitor shall fail or neglect
to perform the duty hereby imposed on him, he shall be
liable to a penalty of five hundred dollars to any person,
who shall sue for the same.
SEC. 148. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as
prescribed by this act ; but this provision shall not apply
to proceedings for contempt.
SEC. 149. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter prescribed,
in the following cases: ,
1. In an action arising on contract where the defendant
is a non-resident of this State, or is about to remove there
from ; and in an action for the recovery of damages on a
cause of action not arising out of contract, where the action
is for injury to person or character, or for wrongfully tak
ing, detaining or converting property :
2. In an action for a line or penalty ; or on a promise to
marry ; or for money received, or for property embezzled or
fraudulently misapplied, by a public officer, or by an attor
ney, solicitor or counsellor, or by an officer or agent of a
corporation or banking association, in the course of bis
employment as ench. or by any factor, agent, broker or
other person in a fiduciary capacity ; or for any misconduct
or neglect in office, or in a professional employment ;
. In an action to recover the possession of personal prop
erty unjustly detained, where the property, or any part
thereof, has been concealed, removed or disposed of, so
that it cannot be found or taken by the sheriff, and with
the intent that it should not be so found or taken, or with
the intent to deprive the plaintiff of 'the benefit thereof;
4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in
contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for which
the action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the
property for the taking, detention or conversion of which,
the action is brought; or when the action is brought to
recover damages for fraud or decent ;
5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his
property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors.
SEC. 150. An order for the arrest of the defendant must be obtained
from the court in which the action is brought, or from a
judge thereof.
SEC. 151. The order may be made where it shall appear to the
court, or judge thereof, by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or
of any other person, that a sufficient cause of action exists,
and that the case is one of those mentioned in section one
hundred and forty-nine (§ 149.)
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all actions
included within the provisions of section one hundred and
forty-nine (§ 149). which shall be commenced after the rati
fication of this Act.
SEC. 152. Before making the order, the judge shall require a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with
sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judg
ment, the plaintiff will pay all damages which he may
sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum
specified in the undertaking, which shall be at ieast one
hundred dollars.
SEC. 153. The order may be made to accompany the summons, or
issue at any time afterwards, before judgment. It shall
require the sheriff of the county where the defendant may
be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in
a specified sum, and to return the order, at a place and
time therein mentioned, to the clerk of the court in which
the action is brought, and notice of such return shall be
served on the plaintiff or his attorney as prescribed in section eighty (§ 80.)
But said order of arrest shall be of no avail, and shall be
vacated or set aside on motion, unless the same is served
upon the defendant, as provided by law, before the dock
eting of any judgment in the action; and the defendant
shall have twenty days, after the service of the order of
arrest, in which to answer the complaint in the action, and
to move to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the
amount of bail.
SEC. 154. The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to the
sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to
him a copy thereof.
SEC. 155. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the de
fendant, and keeping him in custody nntil discharged by
law; and may call the power of the county to his aid in
the execution of his arrest, as in case of process.
SEC. 156. The defendant, at' any time before execution, shall be
discharged from the arrest, either upon jriving bail, or upon
depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as
provided in this chapter.
SEC. 157. The defendant may give bail, by causing a written under
taking to be executed by two or more sufficient bail, stat
ing their places of residence and occupations, to the effect
that the defendant shall, at all times, render himself amen
able to the process of the court, during the pendency of the
action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judg
ment therein, or if he be arrested for the cause mentioned
in the third sub-division of section one hundred and fortynine
(§ 149), an undertaking to the same effect as that pro
vided by section one hundred and eighty-one (§ 181).
SEC. At any time before final judgment against them, the bail
may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he
may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where
he was arrested, in the following manner :
1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall
be delivered to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant
in his custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and
shall, by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender ;
2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and
sheriff's certificate, the court, or a judge thereof, may, upon
a notice to the plaintiff of eight days, with a copy of the
certificate, order that the bail be exonerated ; and on filing
the order and the papers used on said application, they
shall be exonerated accordingly. But this section shall not
apply to an arrest for the cause mentioned in sub-division
three of section one hundred and forty-nine (§ 149), so as to
discharge the bail from an undertaking given to the effect
provided by section one hundred and eighty-one (§ 181).
SEC. 159. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail,
at any time or place, before they are finally charged, may
themselves arrest him, or by a written authority, indorsed
on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any
person of suitable age and discretion to do so.
SEC. 160. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking, the
bail may be proceeded against by action only.
SEC. 161. The bail may be exonerated, either by the death of the
defendant, or his imprisonment in a State prison, or by his
legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the process, or by his surrender to the sheriff
of the county where he was arrested, in execution thereof,
at any time before final judgment against the bail.
SEC. 162. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff
shall deliver the order of arrest to the clerk of the court in
which the suit is brought, with his return indorsed, and
a certified copy of the undertaking of the bail, and notify
the plaintiff or h is attorney thereof. The plaintiff, within
ten days thereafter, may serve upon the sheriff a notice
that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to
have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from
liability.
SEC. 163. On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff' or defendant
may, within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintiff, or his
attorney, notice of the justification of the same or other
bail (specifying the places of residence and occupation of
the latter) before the court, or the Judge thereof, at a speci
fied time and place; the time to be not less than five nor
more than ten days thereafter. In case other bail be given,
there shall be a new undertaking, in the form prescribed in section one hundred and fifty-seven (§ 157.)
SEC. 164. The qualifications of bail must be as follows:
1. Each of them must be a resident and householder or
freeholder within the State ;
2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the
order of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execu-
tion; but the judge, on justification, may allow more than
two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that ex
pressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent
to that of two sufficient bail.
SEC. 165. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall
attend before the court or the judge, or a justice of the
peace, at the time and place mentioned in the notice, and
may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintiff,
touching his sufficienc}-, in such manner as the court, or
judge in his discretion, may think proper. The examina
tion shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the bail,
if required by the plaintiff.
SEC. 166. If the court or judge find the bail sufficient, he shall
annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his
allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed with the
clerk ; and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from
liability.
SEC. 167. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of
giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned
in the order. The sheriff shall thereupon give the defen
dant a certificate of the deposit, and the defendant shall
be discharged out of custody.
SEC. 168. The sheriff shall, whithin four days after the deposit, pay
the same into court, and shall take from the officer receiv
ing the same, two certificates of such payment, the one of
which he shall deliver to the plaintiff, and the other to the
defendant. For any default in making such payment, the
same proceedings may be had on the official bond of the
sheriff, to collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of
delinquency.
SEC. 169. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sec
tions, bail may be given aud justified upon notice, as pre
scribed in section one hundred and sixty-five, (§ 165) any
time before judgment; and thereupon the judge shall direct,
in the order ot allowance, that the money deposited be
refunded, by the sheriff, to the defendant, and it shall be
refunded accordingly.
SEC. 170. When money shall have been so deposited, if it remain
on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the pay
ment of money to the plaintiff, the clerk shall, under the
direction of the court, apply the same in satisfaction there
of, and after satisfying the judgment, shall refund the sur
plus, if any, to the defendant. If the judgment be in favor
of the defendant, the clerk shall refund to him the whole
sum deposited and remaining unapplied.
SEC. 171. f, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be res
cued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not
made instead thereof, the sheriff shall himself be liable as
bail. But he may discharge himself from such liability,
by t^e giving and justification of bail, as provided in sec
tions one hundred and sixty-three, one hundred and sixty-
four one hundred and sixty-five, and one hundred and
sixty-six, (§§ 163, 164, 165, 166) at any time before process
against the person of the defendant, to enforce an order or
judgment in the action.
SEC. 172. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned un
satisfied, in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be
had on the official bond of the sheriff, to collect the defi
ciency, as in other cases of delinquency.
SEC. 173. The bail taken upon the arrest, shall, unless they justi
fy, or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff
by action, for damages which he may sustain by reason of
such omission.
SEC. 174. A defendant arrested may at any time before judgment,
apply, on motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce
the amount of bail.
SEC. 175. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the
same by affidavits, or other proofs, in addition to those on
which the order of arrest was made.
SEC. 176. The plaintiff, in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons,
or at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery
of such property, as provided in this chapter.
SEC. 177. $here a delivery is claimed, an affidavit mnst be made,
before the clerk of the court in which the action is required
to be tried, by sections sixty-six, sixty-seven and sixtyeight,
(§§ 66, 67 and 63) by the plaintiff, or some one in
his behalf, showing:
1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed
(particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the
possession thereof, by virtue of a special property therein,
the facts in respect to which shall be set forth ;
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the de
fendant;
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according
to his best knowledge, information and belief;
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax-assess
ment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an
execution or attachment against the property of the plain
tiff; or, if so seized, that it is, by statute, exempt from
such seizure ; and
. The actual value of the property.
SEC. 178. The clerk of the court shall, thereupon, by an indorse
ment in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of
the county where the property claimed may be, to take the
same from the defendant and deliver it to the plaintif ;
provided, the plaintiff shall give the undertaking pre
scribed in the next section (§ 179.)
SEC. 179. Upon the receipt of the order from the clerk with a writ
ten undertaking executed by one or more sufficient sure
ties, approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are
bound in double the value of the property, as stated in the
affidavit for the prosecution of the action, for the return of
the property to the. defendant, if return thereof be ad
judged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may,
for any cause, be recovered against the [>laintiff, the sheriff
shall forthwith take the property described in the affidavit,
if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and
retain it in his custody. He shall also, without delay,
serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice, and
undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if
he cau be found, or to his agent, from whose possession the
property is taken; or, if neither can be found, by leaving
them at the usual place of abode of either, with some
person of suitable age and discretion.
SEC. 180. The defendant may, within three days after the service
of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to
the sheriff personally, or by leaving a copy at his office in
the county town of the county, or if he have no such office,
at the office of the clerk of the court, that he excepts to
the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he shall
be deemed to have waived all objection to them. When
the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice,
in like manner as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff
shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties, until
the objection to them is either waived as above provided,
or until they shall justify, or new sureties shall be substi
tuted and justify. If the defendant except to the sure
ties, he cannot reclaim the property, as provided in the
next section.
SEC. 181. At any time before the delivery of the property to the
plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sure
ties of the plaintiff, require the return thereof, upon giving
to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or
more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound
in double the value of the property, as stated in the affi
davit of the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to the plain
tiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to
him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against
the defendant. If a return of the property be not so re
quired, within three days after the taking and service of
notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plain
tiff, except as provided in section one hundred and eighty
six (§ 186.)
SEC. 182. The defendant's sureties, upon a notice to the plaintiff
of not less than two, nor more than six days, shall justify
before a judge or justice of the peace, in the same manner
as upon bail on arrest ; upon such justification, the sheriff
shall deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff
shall be responsible for the defendant's sureties, until they
justify, or until justification is completed or expressly
waived, and may retain the property until that time; but
if they, or others in their place, fail to justify at the time
and place appointed, he shall deliver the property to the
plaintiff.
SEC. 183. The qualifications of sureties, and their justification,
shall be as are prescribed by sections one hundred and
sixty-four and one hundred and sixty-five, (§§ 165) in
respect to bail upon an order of arrest.
SEC. 184. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a
building or inclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its
delivery. If it be not delivered, he shall cause the build
ing or inclosure to be broken open, and take the property
into his possession : and, if necessary, he may call to his
aid the power of his county.
SEC. 185. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and
deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his
lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keep
ing the same.
SEC. 186. If the property taken be claimed by any other person
than the defendant or his agent, and such person shall make
affidavit of his title thereto, and right to the possession
thereof, stating the grounds of such right and title, and
serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be
bound to keep the property, or deliver it to the plaintiff,
unless the plaintiff, on demand of him or his agent, shall
shall indemnify the sheriff against such claim, by an under
taking executed by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by
their affidavits, that they are each worth double the value
of the property, as specified in the affidavit of the plaintiff,
and freeholders and householders of the county. And no
claim to such property, by any other person than the de
fendant or his agent, shall be valid against the sheriff,
unless made as aforesaid ; and notwithstanding such claim,
,when so made, he may retain the property a reasonable
time to demand such indemnity.
SEC. 187. The sheriff shall file the notice and affidavit, with his
proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which
the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the
property mentioned therein.
SEC. 188. The writ of injunction, as a provisional remedy, is abol
ished, and an injunction by order is substituted therefor.
The order may be made by any Judge of a Superior Court,
in the cases provided in the next section, and may be en
forced as the order of the court. Upon such order it shall
be issued by the clerk of the court in which the action is
required to be tried.
SEC. 188a. The jurisdiction of the Judges of the Superior Courts of
this State, in appointing receivers and granting; injunc
tions and restraining orders, shall be as follows : Receivers
may be appointed and injunctions granted by the judge
resident in the district in which the action or special pro
ceeding is pending, while the judge assigned to said dis
trict is absent therefrom ; but when the judge assigned to
said district, or holding courts in said district, by exchange,
shall be in said district, he shall have the exclusive juris
diction of such proceedings ; and when neither the resident
judge, nor the judge assigned, nor the judge holding courts
y exchange, shall be in the district, the judge of any ad
joining district may have the jurisdiction of said proceed
ings.
SEC. 188b. A restraining order may be issued, at any time, hy either
the resident judge, or the judge aligned to the district, or
hold ing the courts ot the district by exchange, or by a judge
holding a special term therein, but said order shall be made
returnable in twenty days before the judge designated in section one IbSa) with an order to show cause why a
receiver should not, be appointed, or an injunction granted,
and said judge shall have jurisdiction to hear and deter-
mine the question. Provided, That a judge, holding a
special term in any county, may appoint a receiver, or
grant an injunction, or issue a restraining order returnable
before himself in any case, which he may have jurisdiction
to hear and determine under the commission issued to him.
SEC. 189. 1. When it shall appear by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief,
or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission,
or continuance, of some act, the commission or continuance
of which, during the litigation, would produce injury to the
plaintiff, or
2. When, during the litigation, it shall appear that the
defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or pro
curing or suffering some act to be done in violation of the
plaintiff's rights respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual —
a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such
act.
3. And where, during the pendency of an action, it
shall appear by affidavit, that the defendant threatens, or
is about to remove or dispose of his property, with intent
to defraud his creditors, a temporary injunction may be
granted to restrain such removal or disposition.
SEC. 190. The injunction may be granted at the time of commen
cing the action, or at any time afterwards, before judgment,
upon its appearing satisfactorily to the judge, by the affida
vit of the plaintiff, or of any other person, that sufficient
grounds exist therefor. A copy of the affidavit must be
served with the injunction.
SEC. 191. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant
shall have aimwered, unless upon notice, or upon an order
to show cause ; but, in such case, the defendant may be
restrained until the decision of the judge granting or refus
ing the injunction. 
SEC. 192. Upon granting an order for an injunction, the judge shall
require as a condition precedent to the iesuing thereof, that
the clerk shall take from the plaintiff a written nndertak-
ing, with sufficient sureties to be justified before, and ap
proved by the said clerk or by the judge, in an amount to
be fixed by the judge, to the effect that the plaintiff will
pay to the party enjoined, such damages, not exceeding an
amount to be specified, as he may sustain by reason of the
injunction, if the court shall finally decide that the plain
tiff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascer
tained by a reference, or otherwise, as the judge shall direct.
SEC. 193. If the judge deem it proper that the defendant, or any
of several defendants, should be heard before granting the
injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be
shown, at a specified time and place, why the injunction
should not be granted ; and the defendant may, in the
meantime, be restrained.
SEC. 194. All injunction to suspend the general and ordinary busi
ness of a corporation shall not bo granted without due
notice of the application therefor, to the proper officers of
the corporation, except where the State is a party to the
proceeding, unless the plaintiff shall give a written under
taking, executed by two sufficient sureties, to be approved
by the judge, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay all
damages, not exceeding the sum to be mentioned in the
undertaking, which such corporation may sustain by reason
of the injunction, if the court shall finally decide that the
plaintiff was not entitled thereto. Tiie damage may be
ascertained by a reference, or otherwise, as the court shall
direct.
SEC. 195. If the injunction be granted by the judge of the court,'
without notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial,
may apply, upon notice, to a judge of the court in which
the action is brought, to vacate or modify the same. The
application may be made upon the complaint and the affi
davits on which the injunction was granted, or upon the
affidavits on the part of the defendant, with or without the
answer.
SEC. 196. If the application be made upon affidavits on the part of
the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose
the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those
on which the injunction was granted.
SEC. 197. In an action arising on contract, lor the recovery of money
only, or in an action for the wrongful conversion of per
sonal property, against a corporation created by, or under,
the laws of any other State, government or country, or
against a defendant who is not a resident of this State, or
against a defendant who has absconded or concealed him
self, or whenever any person or corporation is about to
remove any of his or its property from this State, or has
assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to assign,
dispose of, or secrete, any of his, or its, property, with in
tent to defraud creditors, as hereinafter mentioned, the
plaintiff at the time of issuing the summons, or [at] any
time afterwards, may have the property of such defendant or
corporation attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed,
as a security for the satisfaction of such judgment as the
plaintiff may recover; and for the purposes of this section,
an action shall be deemed commenced when the summons
is issued : Provided, however, That personal service of
sue!) summons shall be made, or publication thereof com
menced, within thirty days after obtaining a warrant of
attachment.
SEC. 198. The plaintiff, within thirty days after obtaining a war
rant of attachment from a justice of the peace, shall caiise
publication thereof to be made for tour successive weeks, at
the court house door and tour other public places in the
county where the warrant is returnable.
SEC. 199. 1. If the action be not founded on a contract, or if the
sum demanded exceeds two hundred dollars, a warrant of
attachment may be obtained from the judge of the district
embracing the county in which the action has been insti
tuted, or from the clerk of the Superior Court from which
the summon? in the action issued ; and it may be issued to
any county in the State where the defendant has property,
money, effects, choses in action or debts due him, and shall
be made returnable in term time to the court from which
the summons issued.
2. When the warrant of attachment is taken out at
the time of issuing the summons, and the summons is to
be served by publication, the order shall direct that notice
be given in said publication, to the defendant, of the issuing
of tiie attachment ; and when the warrant of attachment
is obtained after the issuing of the summons, the defend
ant shall be notified by publication of the fact for four suc
cessive weeks, in some newspaper published in the county
to which it is returnable, or if there be none such, then in
one published in the judicial district including said county,
and if there be no newspaper published in the district,
then in any newspaper published in the State. Said pub
lication shall state the names of the parties, the amount of
the claims, and in a brief way the nature of the demand
and the time and the place to which the warrant is return
able : Provided, however, That no irregularity in the
publication of the warrant of attachment, summons, lead
ing or other process, or otherwise, or in the issuance of
the summons, leading or other process, or otherwise, shall
render invalid any proceedings by attachment, since the
adoption of the Code of Civil Procedure, and prior to the
ratification of this act; and all proceedings in cases of at
tachment commenced since the ratification of the Code of
Civil Procedure, are hereby declared valid to all intents
and purposes, any irregularity in the particulars aforesaid
to the contrary notwithstanding : Provided, That in pro
ceedings by attachment begun and had before justices of
the peace, such advertisement in a newspaper shall not be
necessary, but in all such cases, advertisement at the court
house door and at four other public places in the county,
shall be sufficient publication both as to the summons and
the warrant of attachment.
SEC. 200. If the action be founded on contract, and the sum
demanded does not exceed two hundred dollars, the war
rant of attachment must be obtained from, and made re
turnable before, some justice of the peace of a county, to
the Superior Court of which it might have been returnable
under the preceding section, had the sum demanded, ex
ceeded two hundred dollars, or had the action not have
been founded on contract.
SEC. 201. The warrant may be issued whenever it shall appear by
affidavit, that a cause of action exists against such defend
ant, specifying the amount of the claim and the grounds
thereof, and that the defendant is either a foreign corpora
tion, or not a resident of this State ; or has departed there
from with intent to defraud his creditors or to avoid the
service of a summons; or keeps himself concealed therein
with like intent ; or that such corporation or person has
removed, or is about to remove, any of his or its property
from this State, with intent to defraud his or its creditors, •
or has assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to as
sign, dispose of, or secrete, any of his or its property with
the like intent, whether such defendant be a resident of
this State or not. It shall be the duty of the plaintiff pro
curing such warrant, within ten days from the issuing
thereof, to file the affidavits on which the same was granted
in the office of the clerk of the Superior Court to which, or
with the justice of the peace, before whom, the process 16
made returnable.
SEC. 202. Before issuing the warrant, the officer, issuing the same,
shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plain
tiff, with sufficient surety, to the effect, that if the defend
ant recover judgment, or the attachment be set aside by
the order of the court, the plaintiff will pay all costs that
may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which
he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding
the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at
least two hundred and fifty dollars.
SEC. 203. The warrant shall be directed to the sheriff of any county
in which the property of such defendant may be(.or in case
it be issued by a justice of the peace to such sheriff^ or to
any constable of such county, provided, such county be that
of the justice issuing the warrant; and shall require such
sheriff or constable to attach and safely keep, all the prop
erty of such defendant within his county, orso much thereof
as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand, the
amount of which must be stated in conformity with the
complaint, together with costs and expenses; it must also
state when and where it shall be returned. Several warrants
may be issued at the same time to the sheriffs of different
counties. 
SEC. 204. The officer to whom such warrant of attachment is di
rected and delivered, shall seize and take into his posses
sion the tangible personal property of the defendant, or bo
much thereof as may be necessary; and he shall be liable
for the care and custody of such property as if the same
had been seized under execution ; he shall levy on the real
estate of the defendant as prescribed for executions ; he
hall make and return with the warrant an inventory of
the property seized or levied on ; subject to the direction
of the court, he shall collect and receive into his possession
all debts owing to the defendant, and take such legal pro
ceedings, either in his own name, oe in that of the defend
ant, as may be necessary for that purpose.
SEC. 205. If any property, so seized, shall be perishable, or of such
character that the expense of keeping it until the determi
nation of the suit, would be likely to exceed one fifth of its
value; or if any part of it consists of a vessel, or of any
share or interest therein, the sheriff or other officer having
possession thereof, shall immediately apply to the court for
authority to sell the same, stating the circumstances ; and
the same shall be sold, under the order and direction of the
court.
SEC. 206. he rights or shares which such defendant may have, in
the stock of any association or corporation, together with
the interests and profits thereon, and all other property in
this State of such defendant, shall be liable to be attached
and levied on, and sold to satisfy the judgment and execu
tion. 
SEC. 207. The execution of the attachment upon any such rights,
shares, or any debts or other property incapable of manual
delivery to the sheriff, shall be made, by leaving a certified
copy of the warrant of attachment, with the president
or other head of the association or corporation, or the secre
tary, cashier or managing agent thereof, or with the debtor
or individual holding such property, with a notice showing
the property levied on.
SEC. 208. henever the sheriff or other lawful officer with a war
rant of attachment or execution, shall apply to any officer
mentioned in the next preceding section, or to any debtor
or individual, for the purpose of attaching or levying on the
property of the defendant in such warrant, such officer,
debtor or individual shall furnish him with a certificate
under his hand, designating the number of rights or shares
of the defendant in such association or corporation, with
any dividend or any incumbrance thereon, or the amount
and description of the property held by such association,
corporation, or individual, for the benefit of, or debt owing
to the defendant. If such officer, debtor or individual re
fuse to do so. he may be required by the court or judge to
attend before him, and be examined on oath concerning the
same, and obedience to such order may be enforced by
attachment.
SEC. 209. In case judgment be entered for the plaintiff in such
action, the sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the property
attached by him, if it shall be sufficient for that purpose.
1. By paying over to such plaintiff the proceeds of all
property sold by him, and of all debts or credits collected
by him, or 20 much as shall be necessary to satisfy such
judgment.
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall
have been issued on such judgment, he shall proceed to sell
under such execution, so much of the attached property,
real or personal, except as provided in sub-division four of
this section, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose shall remain in his hands ; and in
case of the sale of any rights or shares in the stock of a
corporation or association, the sheriff shall execute to the
purchaser a certificate of sale thereof, and the purchaser
shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in respect
thereto, which were had by such defendant.
3. If any of the attached property belonging to the de
fendant shall have passed out of the hands of the sheriff
without having been sold or converted into money, such
sheriff shall repossess himself of the same ; and for that
purpose, shall have all the authority which he had to seize
the same under the attachment ; and any person who shall
wilfully conceal or withhold such property from the sheriff,
shall be liable to double damages at the suit of the party
injured.
4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be
paid, the sheriff may proceed to collect the notes and other
evidences of debt, and the debts that may have been seized
or attached, under the warrant of attachment, and to prose
cute any bond he may have taken in the course of such
proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the payment
of the judgment.
At the expiration of six months from the docketing of
the judgment, the court shall have power, upon the petition
of the plaintiff, accompanied by an affidavit setting forth
fully all the proceedings which have been had by the sheriff,
since the service of the attachment, the property attached,
and the disposition thereof, and also the affidavit of the
sheriff that he has used due diligence, and endeavored to
collect the evidences of debt in his hands so attached, and
that there remains uncollected of the same, an}- part or
portion thereof, to order the sheriff to sell the same, upon
such terms and in such manner as shall be deemed proper.
Notice of such application shall be given to the defendant
or his attorney, if the defendant shall have appeared in the
action. In case the summons has not been personally
served on the defendant, the court shall make such rule or
order, as to the service of notice and the time of service, as
shall be deemed just.
When the judgment and all costs of the proceedings shall
have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand, shall
deliver over to the defendant, the residue of the attached
property, or the proceeds thereof.
SEC. 210. The actions herein authorized to be brought by the sheriff,
may be prosecuted by the plaintiff, or under his direction,
upon the delivery by him to the sheriff of an undertaking
executed by two sufficient sureties, to the effect, that the
plaintiff will indemnify the sheriff, from for all damages,
costs and expenses on account thereof, not exceeding two
hundred and fifty dollars in any one action. Such sureties
shall, in all cases when required by the sheriff, justify by
making an affidavit that each is a householder, or free
holder and worth double the amount of the penalty of the
bond, over and above all demands and liabilities, and ex
emptions.
SEC. 211. If the foreign corporation, or absent, or absconding, or
concealed defendant, recover judgment against the plaintiff
in sneh action, any bond taken upon the issuing of the
warrant of attachment, and any bond taken by the sheriff,
except such as are mentioned in the last section, all the
proceeds of sales and monies collected by him, and all the
property attached remaining in his hands, shall be delivered
by him to the defendant or his agent on request, and the
warrant shall be discharged and the property released.
SEC. 212. henever the defendant shall have appeared in such
action, he may apply to the court in which the action is
pending, or to the judge thereof, for an order to discharge
the same; and, if the same be granted, all the proceeds of
sale, and moneys collected in such action, and all the prop
erty attached remaining in the hands of any officer of the
court, under any process or order in such action, shall be
delivered or paid to the defendant or his agent, and released
from the attachment.
And where there is more than one defendant, and the sev
eral property of either of the defendants has been seized by
virtue of the order of attachment, the defendant whose sev
eral property has been seized, may apply, in like manner,
for reliet.
SEC. 213. Upon such application the defendant shall deliver to the
court an undertaking, executed by at least two sureties,
who are residents and free-holders or house-holders in this
State, approved by such court, to the effect that such sure
ties, will, od demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of
judgment that may be recovered against the defendant in
the action, not exceeding the sum specified in the under
taking, which shall be at least double the amount claimed
by the plaintiff in his complaint. If it shall appear by affi
davit, that the property attached be less than the amount
claimed by the plaintiff, the court or judge may order the
same to be appraised and the amount of the undertaking
shall then be double the amount so appraised. And in all
cases, the defendant may move to discharge the attachment,
as in the case of other provisional remedies.
And where there is more than one defendant, and the sev
eral property of either of the defendants, has been seized by
virtue of the order of attachment, the defendant whose sev
eral property has been seized, may deliver to the court an
undertaking, in accordance with the provision of this sec
tion, to the effect that he will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff
the amount of the judgment that may be recovered against
such defendant. And all the provisions of this section
applicable to such an undertaking shall be applied thereto.
SEC. 214. The sheriff shall return the warrant of attachment with
a statement of his proceedings thereon, at the time and
place at which it is on its face returnable, and upon, or at
any time after such return, he may obtain from the court to
which the same was returnable, a certified copy thereof,
which shall be held and deemed for the purpose of giving
him authority, the same as the original, and when the war
rant shall have been fully executed or discharged, the sheriff
shall return the same, with his proceedings, to the said
court.
SEC. 215. A receiver may be appointed —
1. Before judgment, on the application of either party,
when he establishes an apparent right to property which
h> the subject of the action, and which is in the possession
of an adverse party, and the property, or its rents and
profits, are in danger of being lost, or materially injured or
impaired : except in cases where judgment upon failure to
answer may be had on application to the court;
2. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect ;
3. After judgment, to dispose of the property according
to the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of
an appeal, or when an execution has been returned unsatis
fied, and the judgment-debtor refuses to apply his property
in satisfaction of the judgment;
4. In the cases provided in this Code and by special
statutes, when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insol
vent or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited
its corporate rights: and in like cases, of the property
within this State of foreign corporations. Receivers of the
property within this State, of foreign or other corporations,
shall be allowed such commissons as may be fixed by the
judge appointing them, not exceeding live per cent, on the
amount received and disbursed by them.
5. In such other cases as are now provided by law, or
may he in accordance with the existing practice, except as
otherwise provided in this act.
When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of
a party that he has in his possession, or under his control,
any money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being
the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for
another party, or which belongs oris due to another party,
the judge "may order the same to be deposited in court, or
delivered to such party, with or without security, subject
to the further direction of the judge.
Whenever, in the exercise of his authority, a judge shall
have ordered the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money
or other property, and the order is disobeyed, the judge,
besides punishing the disobedience as a contempt, may
make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money or
property, and deposit, deliver, or convey it, in conformity
with the direction of the judge.
When the answer of the defendant expressly, or by not
denying, admits part of the plaintiff's claim to be just, the
judge, on motion, may order such defendant to satisfy that
part of the claim, and may enforce the order as it enforces
a judgment or provisional remedy.
SEC. 216. . judgment is the final determination of the rights of
the parties in the action.
SEC. 217. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer
the complaint, as follows:
1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of
money only, the plaintiff may file with the clerk, proof of
personal service of the summons and complaint on one or
more of the defendants, or of the summons according to
the provisions of section seventy-six, and that no answer
has been filed. The clerk shall thereupon enter judgment
for the amount mentioned in the summons, against the de
fendant or defendants, or against one or more of several de
fendants, in the cases provided for in section eighty-seven
But if the complaint he not sworn to, and such action
is on an instrument for the payment of money only, the
clerk, on its production to him, shall assess the amount due
to the plaintiff thereon ; and, in other cases, shall ascertain
the amount which the plaintiff' is entitled to recover in such
action, from his examination, under oath, or other proof,
and enter the judgment for the amount so assessed or ascer
tained. In case the defendant give notice of appearance in
the action, he shall be entitled to five days' notice of the
time and place of such assessment.
Where the defendant, \>y his answer in such action, shall
not deny the plaintiff's claim, but shall set up a counter
claim, amounting to less than the plaintiff's claim, judg
ment may be had by the plaintiff for the excess of said claim
over the said counter-claim, in like manner in any such
action, upon the plaintiff's filing with the clerk of the court
a statement admitting such counter-claim, which statement
shall be annexed to and be a part of the judgment-roll.
2. In other actions the plaintiff may, upon the like proof,
apply to the court, after the expiration of the time for an
swering, for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the
taking of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary
to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judg
ment into effect, the court may take the account or hear
the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for
that purpose. And where the action is for the recovery of
money only, or of specific real or personal property, with
damages for the withholding thereof, the court may order
the damages to be assessed by a jury, or, if the examina
tion of a long account be involved, by a reference as above
provided. If the defendant give notice of appearance in
the action before the expiration of the time for answering,
he shall be entitled to eight days' notice of the time and
place of application to the court for the relief demanded
by the complaint.
3. In actions where the service of the summons was by
publication, the plaintiff may, in like manner, apply for
judgment, and the court must thereupon require proof to
be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint ; and
if the defendant be not a resident of the State, must require
the plaintiff or his agent to be examined on oath respect
ing any payments that have been made to the plaintiff, or
to any one for his use, on account of such demand, and
may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled
to recover. Before rendering judgment the court may, in
its discretion, require the plaintiff to cause to be filed sat
isfactory security to abide the order of the court, touching
the restitution of any estate or effects which may be di
rected by such judgment to be transferred or delivered, or
the restitution of any money that may be collected under
or by virtne of such judgment, in case the defendant or
his representative shall apply and be admitted to defend
the action, and shall succeed in such defence. 
SEC. 218. If a demurrer, answer or reply be frivolous, the party
prejudiced thereby, upon a previous notice of five days may
apply to the court or to the judge thereof, either in or out
of the court, for judgment thereon, and judgment may be
given accordingly.
SEC. 219. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a fact or conclusion
of law is maintained by the one party and controverted by
the other. They are of two kinds :
1. Of law ; and
2. Of fact.
SEC. 220. An issue of law arises,
1. Upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply,
or to some part thereof.
SEC. 221. An issue of fact arises—
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint contro
verted by the answer; or,
2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the
reply; or,
3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of law
is joined thereon.
SEC. 222. Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different
parts of the pleading in the same action. In such casesthe issues of law must be tried first, unless the court other
wise direct.
SEC. 223. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between
the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.
SEC. 224. An issue of law must be tried by the judge of the court,
unless it be referred, as provided in sections two hundred
and forty-four and two hundred and forty-five (§§ 244 and
245.) An issue of fact, in an action for the recovery of
money only, or of specific real or personal property, or for
a divorce from the marriage contract on the ground of
adultery, must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be
waived, as provided in section forty (§ 240), or a reference
be ordered, as provided in sections two hundred and fortyfour
and two hundred and forty-five (§§ 214 and 245).
SEC. 225. Every other issue is triable by the court, or the judge
thereof, who, however, may order the whole issue, or any
specific question of fact involved therein, to be tried by a
jury, or may refer it, as provided in sections two hundred
and forty-four and two hundred and forty-five (§§ 244, 245).
SEC. 226. Every issue of fact joined on the pleadings, and inquiry
of damages required to be tried by a jury, shall be tried at
the term of the court next ensuing such joinder of issue or
order for inquiry ; provided such issue shall have been
joined or order for inquiry made, more than thirty days
before such term, but if not, they shall be tried at the sec
ond term after such joinder or order.
SEC. 227. Any party to any action may apply to the court in which
it is pending, or to the judge thereof, after three days' notice
in writing to the adverse party, to have the trial deferred
to a term subsequent to that in which it is regalarly triable ;
such application must be made thirty days before the trial
term, and must be on affidavit. The court or judge may
defer the trial as asked for, on such terms as shall be just,
if satisfied :
1. That the applicant has used due diligence to have his
case ready for trial ; and,
2. That by reason of circumstances beyond his control,
which he shall set forth, he cannot have a fair trial at the
regular trial term ; if the application is made by reason of
the expected absence of a witness, it shall state the name
and residence of the witness, the facts expected to be proved
by him, and the grounds for the expectation of his nonattendance,
and that the applicant expects to procure his
evidence at or before some named subsequent term.
The applicant shall, in all cases, pay the costs of the
application.
SEC. 228. The judge, at any time during the term at which an
action is triable, may postpone the trial on the application
of either party and on such terms as shall be justv if sat
isfied :
1. That the applicant has used due diligence to be ready
for trial.
2. That he cannot have a fair trial at that term, by reason
of circumstances stated, and if the ground of application
be the non-attendance of a witness, the affidavit shall con
tain the particulars required by sub-division two, of section
two hundred and twenty-seven (§ 227). Unless the appli
cant shall also set forth in his affidavit, that the facts upon
which his application is grounded occurred, or came to his
knowledge too late to allow him to apply as prescribed in
the last section, and that his application is made as soon as
it reasonably could be after the knowledge of such facts,
the postponement shall not be granted, except on the terms
of the payment of the costs in the action for the term.
SEC. 229. The criminal calendar shall be first disposed of, unless by
consent of counsel, or for reasons satisfactory to the judge,
particular criminal actions may be deferred. The issues
on the civil calendar shall be disposed of in the following
order, unless, for the convenience of parties or the dispatch
of business, the court shall otherwise direct:
1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury ;
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court.
3. Issues of law. 
SEC. 230. A separate trial between a plaintiff and any of the several
defendants may be allowed by the court whenever, in its
opinion, justice will thereby be promoted.
SEC. 231. The clerk shall furnish the judge with a copy of the
summons and pleadings, and with the offer of the defend
ant, if any shall have been made.
SEC. 232. A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce
generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of
the plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by
which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment
to the court.
SEC. 233. In an action for the recovery of specific personal prop
erty, if the property have not been delivered to the plain
tiff, or the defendant by his answer claim a return thereof,
the jury shall assess the value of the property, if their ver
dict be in favor of the plaintiff; or if they find in favor of
the defendant, and that he is entitled to a return thereof;
and may at the same time assess the damages, if any are
claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing
party has sustained by reason of the detention or taking
and withholding such property.
Iu every action for the recovery of money only, or specific
real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a
general or special verdict. In all other cases, the court
may direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing,
upon all or any of the issues ; and in all cases may instruct
them if they render a general verdict, to find upon par
ticular questions of fact, to be stated in writing, and may
direct a written finding thereon. The special verdict or
finding shall be filed with the clerk and entered upon the
minutes.
SEC. 234. Where a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent
with the general verdict, the former shall control the latter,
and the court shall give judgment accordingly.
SEC. 235. When a verdict it* found for the plaintiff in an action for
the recover of money, or for the defendant when a set-off
for the recovery of money is established beyond the amount
of the plaintiff's claim as established, the jury must also
assess the amount of the recovery ; they may also, under
the direction of the court, assess the amount of the recovery,
when the court gives judgment for the plaintiff on the
answer. If a set off, established at the trial, exceed the
plaintiff's demand, so established, judgment for the defend
ant must be given for the excess; or if it appear that the
defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judg
ment must be given accordingly.
SEC. 236. (1.) Upon receiving a verdict, the clerk shall make an
entry in his minutes, specifying the time and place of the
trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and
either the judgment rendered thereon, or an order that the
cause be reserved for argument or further consideration. If
a different direction be not given by the court, the clerk
must enter judgment in conformity with the verdict (2.)
If an exception be taken, it may be reduced to writing at
the time, or entered in the judge's minutes, and afterwards
settled as provided by the rules of the court, and then stated
in writing in a case, or separately, with so much of the evi
dence as may be material to the questions to be raised ; but
a bill of exceptions need not be made. (3.) If the excep
tions be, in the first instance, stated in a case, and it be
necessary to separate them, the separation may be made
under the direction of the judge. (4.) The indge who
tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain a motion,
to be made on his minutes, to set aside a verdict and grant
a new trial upon exceptions, or for insufficient evidence, or
for excessive damages ; but such motion can only be heard
at the same term at which the trial is had. When such
motion is heard ami decided upon the minutes of the judge,
and an appeal is taken from the decision, a case or excep
tions must lie settled in the usual form, upon which the ar
gument of the appeal must be had.
SEC. 237. No judge, in giving a charge to the petty jury, shall give
an opinion whether a tact is fully or sufficiently proven,
such matter being the true office and province of the jury ;
but he shall state in a plain and correct manner the evi
dence given in the case, and declare and explain the law
arising thereon.
SEC. 238. Every judge, at the request of any party to an action on
trial, made at or before the close of the evidence, before
instructing the jury on the law, shall pot his instructions
in writing and read them to the jury ; he shall then sign
and file them with the clerk as a part of the record of the
action.
SEC. 239. Counsel praying of the judge instructions to the jury,
shall put their request in writing entitled of the cause, and
sign them ; otherwise the judge may disregard them ; they
shall be filed with the clerk as a part of the record.
SEC. 240. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to,
an issue of fact, in actions on contract, and with the assent
of the court, in other actions, in the manner following :
1. By failing to appear at the trial ;
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed
-with the clerk ;
3. By oral consent, entered on the minutes.
SEC. 241. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the court, its de
cision shall be given in writing, and shall contain a state
ment of the facts found, and the conclusions of law, sepa
rately ; and upon a trial of an issue at law, the decision
shall be made in the same manner, stating the conclusions
of law. Such decision shall be filed with the clerk during
the court at which the trial takes place. Judgment upon
the decision shall be entered accordingly.
SEC. 242. 1. For the purposes of an appeal, either party may ex
cept to a decision on a matter of law arising upon such
trial within ten days after the judgment, in the same man
ner and with the same effect as upon a trial by jury. Pro
vided, however, That where the decision does not author
ize a final judgment, but directs further proceedings before
a referee or otherwise, either party may except thereto, and
make a case or exception as above provided in case of an
appeal.
2. And either party desiring a review, upon the evi
dence appearing on the trial, of the questions of law, may,
at any time within ten days after the judgment, or within
such times as may be prescribed by the rules of the court,
make a case or exceptions in like manner as upon a trial
by jury, except that the judge, in settling the case, must
briefly specify the facts found by him, and his conclusions
of law.
SEC. 243. On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an issue of law,
the plaintiff may proceed in the same manner prescribed
by the first two sub-divisions of section two hundred and
seventeen (§ 217), upon the failure of the defendant to
answer, where the summons was personally served. If
judgment be for the defendant, upon an issue of law, and
if taking of an account or the proof of any fact be neces
sary to enable the court to complete the judgment, a
reference or assessment by jury may be ordered, as in that section provided.
SEC. 244. All, or any, of the issnes in the action, whether of fact
or of law, or both, may be referred, upon the written con
sent of the parties.
SEC. 245. here the parties do not consent, the court may, upon
the application or of either, of its own motion, except where
the investigation will require the decision of difficnlt ques
tions of law, direct a reference in the following cases :
1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the
examination of a long account on either side; in which
© case the referee may be directed to hear and decide the
whole issue, or to report upon any specific question of fact
involved therein ; or
2. Where the taking of an account shall he necessary for
the information of the court, before judgment, or for carry
ing a judgment order into effect ; or
3. When the case involves a complicated question of
boundary, or one which requires a personal view of the pre
mises ; or
4. Where a question of fact, other than upon the plead
ings, shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of
the action.
SEC. 246. The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same
manner aa a trial by the court. They shall have the same
power to grant adjournments and to allow amendments to
any pleadings and to the summons, as the court upon such
trial upon the same terms and with like effect. They shall
have the same power to preserve order and punish all vio
lations thereof upon such trial, and to compel the attend
ance of witnesses before them by attachment, and to punish
them as for a contempt for non-attendance or refusal to be
sworn or testify, as is possessed by the court. They must
state the facts found and the conclusions of law separately ;
and their decision must be given, and may be excepted to
and reviewed in like manner, and with like effect in all
respects, as in cases of appeal under section two hundred
and forty-two (§ 242) ; and they may in like manner settle
a case or exceptions. The report of the referees upon the
whole issue shall stand as the decision of the court, and
judgment may be entered thereon upon application to the
judge, and his order. When the reference is to report the
facts, the report shall have the* effect of a special verdict.
SEC. 247. In all cases of reference, the parties as to whom issues
are joined in the action (except when the defendant is an
infant or an absentee) may agree in writing upon a person
or persons, not exceeding three, and a reference shall be
ordered to him or them, and to no other person or persons.
And if such parties do not agree, the court shall appoint
one or more referees, not more than three, who shall be
free from exception. And no person shall be appointed
referee to whom all parties in the action shall object, ex
cept in actions for divorce. And no judge or justice of any
court shall sit as referee in a'ny action pending in the court
of which he is judge or justice, and not already referred,
unless the t parties otherwise stipulate. The referee or
referees shall make and deliver a report within sixty days
from the time the action shall be finally submitted ; and
in default thereof, and before the report is delivered, either
party may serve notice upon the opposite party that he
elects to end the reference ; and thereupon the action shall
proceed as though no reference had been ordered, and the
referees shall not in such case be entitled to any fees.
The report of the referee shall be made to the clerk of
the court in which the action is pending ; either party,
after ten days' notice to the adverse party, may move the
judge to review such report, and set aside, modify, or con
firm the same in whole or in part, and no judgment shall
be entered on any reference except by order of the judge.
SEC. 248. 1. Judgment may be given for or against one or more
of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of sev
eral defendants; and it may determine the ultimate rights
of the parties on each side, as between themselves.
2. And it may grant to the defendant any affirmative
relief to which lie may be entitled.
3. In an actiou against several defendants, the court
may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more
of them, leaving the actiou to proceed against the others,
whenever a several judgment may be proper.
4. The court may also dismiss the complaint, with costs
in favor of one or more defendants, in case of uureasonable
neglect on the part of the plaintiff to serve the summons
on other defendants, or to proceed in the cause against the
defendant or defendants served.
In an action brought by or against a married woman,
judgment may be given against her as well for eosts as for
damages, or both for such costs and for such damages, in
the same manner as against other persons, to be levied and
collected of her separate estate and not otherwise.
SEC. 249. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no answer,
cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his
complaint; but in any other case, the court may grant him
any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint
and embraced within the issue.
SEC. 250. henever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff may
claim and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any
rate of damages which he might have heretofore recovered,
for the same cause of action.
SEC. 251. In an action to recover the possession of personal pro
perty, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession,
or for the recovery of possession, or for the value thereof,
in case a delivery cannot be had, and the damages for the
detention. If the property have been delivered to the
plaintiff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judg
ment for the defendant may be for a return of the propertj',
or the value thereof in case a return cannot be had, and
damages for taking and withholding the same.
SEC. 251a. Every order or judgment, whether in a spe-
cial proceeding, which is required to be made by a Judge
of the Snperior Court, either in or out of term, shall be
authenticated by his signature.
SEC. 252. The Clerk of the Superior Court shall enter every judg
ment of the court, on his judgment book; it shall specify
clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the
action ; he shall also enter on said book all judgments ren
dered in any other court, and authorized by law to be so
entered, and shall keep an alphabetical index of the whole,
with the dates and numbers thereof.
SEC. 253. Unless the party or his attorney shall furnish a judgment-
roll, the clerk, immediately after entering the judgment,
shall attach together, and file the following papers, which
shall constitute the judgment-roll :
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defend
ant, the summons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof
of service, and that no answer lias been received, the report
if any, and a copy of the judgment.
2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies
thoreof, and a copy of the judgment, with any verdict or
report, the offer of the defendant, exceptions, case, and all
orders and papers in any way involving the merits and
necessarily affecting the judgment.
SEC. 254. Upon filing a judgment-roll upon a judgment directing
in whole or in part the payment of money, it may be dock
eted with the clerk of the county where the judgment-roll
was filed, and in anv other county upon the filing with the
clerk thereof a transcript of the original " docket," and
shall be a lien on the real property in the county, where
the same is docketed, of every person against whom any
such judgment shall be rendered, and which he may have
at the time of the docketing thereof, in the county in which
such real property is situated, or which he shall acquire at
any time thereafter, for ten years from the time of dock
eting the same in the county where the judgment-roll was
filed. But the time during which the party recovering or
owning such judgment shall be, or ma}r have been, re
strained from proceeding thereon by an order of injunction,
or other order, or by the operation of any appeal, shall not
constitute any part of the ten years aforesaid, as against
the defendant in such judgment, or the party obtaining
such orders or making such appeal, or any other person who
is not a purchaser, creditor or mortgagee in good faith.
But whenever an appeal from any judgment shall be pend
ing, and the undertaking requisite to stay execution on
such judgment shall have been given, and the appeal per
fected as provided in the Code, the court in which such
judgment was recovered may, on special motion, after notice
to tha person owning the judgment, on such terms as they
shall see fit, direct an entry to be made by the clerk on the
docket of such judgment, that the same is "secured on
appeal;'' and thereupon it shall cease, during the pendency
of said appeal, to be a lien on the real property of the judg
ment-debtor, as against purchasers and mortgagees in good
taith.
All executions issuing upon judgments docketed in a
county other than that in which the original judgment was
rendered, shall be returned to the court from which they
issued; the return noted on the execution docket; and tiie
executions transmitted to the clerk of the court in which
the original judgment was taken. The provisions of this section shall apply to existing judgments as well as to all
hereafter rendered.
SEC. 255. Writs of execution for the enforcement of judgments as
now used are modified in conformity to this title, and the
party in whose favor judgment has been heretofore or shall
hereafter be given, and in case of his death his personal
representatives duly appointed, may at any time within
three years after the entry of judgment, proceed to enforce
the same, as is prescribed by this title.
The provisions of this title shall apply to existing judg
ments except in the cases provided for. by the ordinance
of the Convention of this State entitled " An Ordinance
respecting the Jurisdiction of the Courts of this State,"
ratified fourteenth of March, 1868, which shall be governed
by the existing law.
SEC. 256. After the lapse of three years from the entry of judg
ment, an execution can be issued only by leave of the court,
upon motion, with personal notice to the adverse party,
nnless he be absent or non-resident, or cannot be found to
make such service, in which case such service may be made
by publication, or in such other manner as the court shall
direct. Such leave shall not be given unless it be estab
lished by the oath of the party, or other satisfactory proof,
that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied
and due. But the leave shall not be necessary when exe
cution has been issued on the judgment within the three
years next preceding the 6iiing for execution, and returned
unsatisfied in whole or in part.
SEC. 257. Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or
the delivery of real or personal property, the same may be
enforced in those respects by execution, as provided in this Title. Where it requires the performance of any other act,
a certified copy of the judgment may be served upon the
party against whom it is given, or the person or oflicer who
is required thereby or by law, to obey the same, and his
obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse, he may be pun
ished by the court as for contempt.
SEC. 258. There shall be three kinds of execution; one against the
'^property of the judgment debtor; another against his per
son ; and the third, for the delivery of the possession of real
or personal property, or such delivery with damages for
withholding the same. They shall be deemed the process
of the court, and shall be subscribed by the clerk, and
when they are to run out of his county, sealed with the seal
of his court.
SEC. 259. hen the execution is against the property of the judg
ment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county
where the judgment is docketed. When it requires the
delivery of real or personal property, it must be issued to
the sheriff of the county where the property, or some part
thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued at the same
time to different counties.
Real property adjudged to be sold must be sold in the
county where it lies, by the sheriff of the county, or by a
referee appointed by the court for that purpose ; and there
upon the sheriff or referee must execute a conveyance to
the purchaser, which conveyance shall be effectual to pass
the rights and interests of the parties, adjudged to be sold.
An execution may issue against a married woman, and
it shall direct the levy and collection of the amount of the
judgment against her, from her separate property, and not
otherwise.
SEC. 259a. The judgments of the several courts in this State, shall
be docketed as now provided by law ; but the executions
provided in this chapter, and all writs of venditioni e&
pmictts, and other process for the enforcement of such judg
ments, shall issue, under seal of the conrt, only from the
court in which the judgment for the enforcement of such
execution, other final process, or any of them, may issue,
was rendered ; and such executions or other final process
against the property of the defendant or defendants, or any
one or more of them, may be issued to any county, in which
such last mentioned judgment may be docketed ; and such
executions or other final process, may issue to two or more
counties at the same time, as now provided by law, and exe
cutions against the person or persons of the defendant or
defendants, or any of them, may issue to any one or more
counties in the State; and the returns of all such execu
tions, or other final process, shall be made to the court of
the county from which the same is issued.
SEC. 259b. Whim any such execution shall be returned, as herein
provided, the return of the sheriff or other officer shall
be noted by the clerk on the execution docket; and when
the same shall be returned satisfied, or partially satis
fied, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court to
which the same is returned, to send a copy of such last
mentioned return, under his hand, to the clerk of the Su
perior Court of each county, in which such judgment is
docketed, whose duty it shall be to note such copy in his
execution docket, opposite said judment, and file said copy
with the transcript of the docket of said judgment in his
office.
SEC. 259c. In all cases where such executions have been, or are now
issued, either from the court of the county in which such
judgments were rendered, or from the court of the county
in which snch judgment was docketed, other than that in
which such judgment was rendered, or from both of such
last mentioned courts, whether, at the same time or other
wise, all sales of property, and all other things made and
done, and all liabilities and penalties incurred by sheriffs,
or other officers or persons, under and in pursuance of such
last mentioned executions, shall be valid and binding upon
all such sheriffs, other officers or persons, to all intents and
purposes, and to the same extent as if such executions or
other processes for the enforcement of said judgments had
issued in all respects regularly : Provided, nevertheless, that
such executions or other process, were and are, in other
respects than those herein specified, regular and valid.
SEC. 259d. Tn all cases where any sheriff, or other officer, shall be
amerced for failure to make due return of any execution,
or other writ of process, placed in his hands, or for any
default whatsoever in office, and. judgment nisi, or other
wise, for the penalty or forfeiture, in such case made and
provided, shall be entered, it shall be sufficient to give such
sheriff notice, according to law, under the hand of the
clerk and seal of the court, where such judgment may be
entered, of a motion for a judgment absolute, or for execu
tion, as the case may be, and no other notice, summons or
suit, shall be necessary to enforce the same ; and such pro
ceedings shall be deemed and held in aid of a suit or other
proceedings already instituted in court.
SEC. 260. If the action be one in which the defendant might have
been arrested, as provided in section one hundred and fortynine
and section one hundred and fifty-one (§ 151),
an execution against the person of the judgment-debtor may
be issued to any county within the State, after the return
of an execution against his property, unsatisfied in whole
or in part. But no execution shall issue against the person
of a judgment-debtor, unless an order of arrest has been
served, as in this act provided, or unless the complaint con
tains a statement of facts showing one or more of the causes
of arrest required by section one hundred and forty-nine.
SEC. 261. The execution must be directed to the sheriff, or coroner
when the sheriff is a party or interested, subscribed by the
clerk of the court, and must intelligibly refer to the judg
ment, stating the county where the judgment-roll or tran
script is filed, the names of the parties, the amount of the
judgment, if it be for money, and the amount actually due
thereon, and the time of docketing in the county to which
the execution is issued, and shall require the officer sub
stantially as follows :
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor,
it shall require the officer to satisfy the judgment out of
the personal property of such debtor; and if sufficient per
sonal property cannot be found, out of the real property
belonging to him on the day when the judgment was dock
eted in the county, or at any time thereafter, but no execu
tion against the property of a judgment debtor, shall be a
lien on the personal property of such debtor, as against
any bona fide purchaser from him for value, or as against
any other execution, except from the levy thereof.
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands
of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants
of real property or trustees, it shall require the officer to
satisfy the judgment out of such property.
g. If it be against the person of such judgment-debtor,
it shall require the officer to arrest such debtor, and com
mit him to the jail of the county until he shall pay the
judgment or be discharged according to law.
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or
personal property, it shall require the officer to deliver the
possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the
parties entitled thereto, and may at the same time require
the officer to satisfy any costs, damages, or rents or profits
recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal prop
erty of the party against whom it was rendered, and the
value of the property for which the judgment was recov
ered, to be specified therein ; if a delivery thereof cannot
be had, and if sufficient personal property cannot be
found, then out of the real properly belonging to him
on the day when the judgment was docketed, or at any
time thereafter, and shall in that respect be deemed an ex
ecution against property.
SEC. 262. The execution shall be returnable within sixty days, after
its receipt by the officer, to the clerk with whom the record
of judgment is filed.
SEC. 262a. ll executions issued, or judgments in civil actions,
shall be tested as of the term next before the day on which
they issued, and shall be returnable to the term of the
court next after that from which they bear test ; and all
executions now in the hands of any sheriff, issued from any
Superior Court, shall be returned to the next term of said
court.
SEC. 263. ntil otherwise provided by the legislature, the exist
ing provisions of law, not in conflict with this chapter, re
lating to executions and their incidents, the property liable
to sale on execution, the sale and redemption thereof, the
powers and rights of officers, their duties therein, and the
proceedings to enforce those duties, and the liability of
their sureties, shall apply to the executions prescribed by
this chapter.
Sec. 2. That sheriffs and other public officers selling
real estate under execution, shall sell the same at the court
house of the county in which the property, or some part
thereof, is situate, on the first Monday in every month, ex
cept the month in which the Superior Court is held there
in ; then the sale shall be made during the first three days
of the court.
Sec. 3. That any officer or other person selling real estate
under the order of any court of this State, shall sell the
same at the place named in the order, but if no place be
named therein, the same shall be made at the time and
place provided in section 2 of this act, for sale under exe
cution.
Sec. 4. That sheriffs and other public officers may sell
personal property on any day except Sunday, after adver
tising the same for ten full days previous to the day of sale,
by posting notices of the sale at the court-house door, and
at three other public places in the county.
Sec. 5. That all sales of property heretofore made by
sheriffs, and other persons having authority to make the
same, so far as the time and place are concerned, are
hereby declared to be valid, as much so as if such sales had
been made at the times and places as provided by law.
SEC. 263a. Any defendant against whom a judgment shall be ren
dered for land, may, at any time before the execution of
such judgment, present a petition to the court rendering
the same, stating that he or those under whom he claims
while holding the premises under a title believed by him
or them to be good have made permanent improvements
thereon, and praying that he may be allowed for the same,
over and above the value of the use and occupation of such
land ; and thereupon the court may, if satisfied of the prob
able truth of the allegation, suspend the execution of such
judgment and inipannel a jury to assess the damages of the
plaintiff and the allowance to the defendant for such im
provements.
SEC. 263b. The jury in assessing such damages shall estimate against
the defendant the clear annual value of the premises
during the time he was in possession thereof, (exclusive of
the use by the tenant of the improvements thereon made
by himself or those under whom he claims) and also the
damages for waste or other injury to the premises commit
ted by the defendant.
SEC. 263c. The defendant shall not be liable for such annual value
for any longer time than three years before the suit, or for
damages for any such waste or other injury done before
said three years, unless when he claims for improvements
as aforesaid.
SEC. 263d. If the jury shall be satisfied that the defendant, or those
under whom he claims, made on the premises, at a time
when there was reason to believe the title good under
which he or they were holding the said premises, perma
nent and valuable improvements, they shall estimate in his
favor the value of such improvements as were so made be
fore notice in writing of the title under which the plaintiff
claims, not exceeding the amount actually expended in
making them, and not exceeding the amount to which the
value of the premises is actually increased thereby, at the
time of the assessment.
SEC. 263e. If the sum estimated for the improvements exceed the
damages estimated by the jury against the defendant as
aforesaid, they shall then estimate against him for any time
before the said three years, the rents and profits accrued
against or damages for waste or other injury done by him
or those under whom he claims, so far as may be necessary
to balance his claim for improvements, but in such case he
shall not be liable for the excess, if any, of such rents and
profits or damages beyond the value of the improvements.
SEC. 263f. After off'setting the damages assessed for the plaintiff,
and the allowances to the defendant for the improvements,
if any, the jury sha.ll find a verdict for the balance for the
plaintiff or defendant, as the case may be, and judgment
shall be entered therefor according to the verdict.
SEC. 263g. Any such balance due to the defendant shall constitute
a lien upon the land recovered by the plaintiff until the
same shall be paid.
SEC. 263h. If the plaintiff claim only an estate for life in the land
recovered and pay any sum allowed to the defendant for im
provements, he, or his personal representative, may recover
at the determination of his estate from the remainderman
or reversioner, the value of the said improvements as they
then exist, not exceeding the amount as paid by him, and
shall have a lien therefor on the premises in like manner
as if they had been mortgaged for the payment thereof,
and may keep possession of said premises until it be paid.
SEC. 263i. Nothing herein shall extend or apply to any suit brought
by a mortgagee or his heirs or assigns, against a mortgagor
or his heirs or assigns, for the recovery of the mortgaged
premises.
SEC. 263j. hen the defendant shall claim allowance for improve
ments, the plaintiff may, by entry on the record, require
that the valne of his estate in the premises, without the im
provements, shall be ascertained.
SEC. 263k. The value of the premises in such case shall be estimated
as it would have been at the time of the enquiry, if no
such improvements had been made on the premises by the
tenant or any person under whom he claims, and shall be
ascertained in the manner hereinbefore provided, for esti
mating the value of improvements.
SEC. 263l. The plaintiff in such case, if judgment is rendered for
him may, at any time during the sarnie term, or before
judgment is rendered on the assessment of the value of the
improvements, in person, or by his attorney in the cause,
enter on the record his election to relinquish his estate in
the premises to the defendant at the value as ascertained,
and the defendant shall thenceforth hold all the estate that
that the plaintiff had therein at the commencement of the
suit: Provided, He pay therefor the said value, with in
terest, in the manner in which the court may order it to be
paid.
SEC. 263m. The payments shall be made to the plaintiff, or into court
for his use, and the laud shall be bound therefor, and if the
defendant fail to make the said payments within or at the
times limited therefor respectively, the court may order
the land to be sold and the proceeds applied to the pay
ment of said value and interest, and the surplus, if any,
to be paid to the defendant ; but if the said net proceeds
be insufficient to satisfy the snid value and interest, the de
fendant shall not be bound for the deficiency.
SEC. 263n. If a party by or for whom the land is claimed in the suit
be a feme covert, minor, or insane, such value shall be
deemed to be real estate, and be disposed of as the court
may consider proper for the benefit of the persons inter
ested therein.
SEC. 263o. If the defendant or his heirs or assigns shall, after the
premises are so relinquished to him, be evicted thereof by
force of any better title than that of the original plaintiff,
the person so evicted may recover from such plaintiff or
his representatives, the amount so paid for the premises, as
so much money had and received by such plaintiff in his
life time for the use of such person, with lawful interest
thereon from the time of such payment.
SEC. 264. 1. When an execution against property of the judg
ment debtor, or any one of several debtors in the same
judgment issued to the sheriff of the county where he re
sides or has a place of business, or if he do not reside in
the State, to the sheriff of the county where a judgmentroll
or a transcript of a justice's judgment is filed, is re
turned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the judgment cred
itor, at any time after such return made, is entitled to an
order from the court to which the execution is returned, or
from the judge thereof, requiring such debtor to appear
and answer concerning his property, before such court or
judge, at a time and place specified in the order, within the
county to which the execution was issued.
2. After the issuing of an execution against, property,
and upon proof by affidavit, of a party or otherwise, to
the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof, that
any judgment debtor, residing in the judicial district where
such judge or officer resides, has property which he un
justly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judg
ment, such court or judge may, by an order, require the
judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place,
to answer concerning the same ; and such proceedings may
thereupon be had for the application of the property of the
judgment debtor towards the satisfaction of the judgment,
as are provided upon the return of an execution.
3. On an examination under this section, either party
may examine witnesses in his behalf, and the judgment
debtor may be examined, in the same manner as a witness.
4. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the
judgment debtor, the judge may, upon proof by affida
vit or otherwise, to his satisfaction, that there is danger of
the debtor's leaving the State, or concealing himself, and
that there is reason to believe he has property which he
unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, issue a warrant
requiring the sheriff of any county where such debtor may
be, to arrest him and bring him before such judge. Upon
being brought before the judge, he may be examined on
oath, ami, if it then appears that there is danger of the
debtor leaving the State, and that he has property which
he has unjustly refused to apply to such judgment, ordered
to enter into an undertaking, with one or more sureties,
that he will, from time to time, attend before the judge as
he shall direct, and that he will not, during the pendency
of the proceedings, dispose of any property not exempt
from execution. In default of entering into such under
taking, he may be committed to prison by warrant of the
judge, as for contempt.
5. No person shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter, be excused from answering any question on the
ground that his examination will tend to convict him of the
commission of a fraud ; but his answers shall not be used
as evidence against him in any criminal proceeding or pros
ecution. Nor shall he be excused from answering any
question, on the ground that he has, before the examina
tion, executed any conveyance, assignment or transfer of
his property for any purpose, but his answer shall not be
used as evidence against him in any criminal proceeding or
prosecution.
SEC. 265. After the issuing of execution against property, any per
son indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff
the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as shall be
necessary to satisfy the execution ; and the sheriff's receipt
shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.
SEC. 266. Alter the issuing or return of an execution against prop
erty of the judgment debtor, or any one of several debtors
in the same judgment, and upon affidavit that any person
or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or ia
indebted to him in an amount exceeding ten dollars, the
court or judge may, by an order, require such person or
corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to appear at
a specified time and place, and answer concerning the
same. The court or judge ma)' also, in his discretion, re
quire notice of such proceeding to be given to any party
to the action, in such manner as may seem to him proper.
The proceedings mentioned in this section and in sec
tion two hundred and sixty-four (§ 264), may be taken
upon the return of an execution unsatisfied, issued upon a
judgment recovered in an action against joint debtors, in
which some of the defendants have not been served with
the summons by which said action was commenced, so far
as relates to the joint property of such debtors ; and all
actions by creditors to obtain satisfaction of judgments out
of the property of joint debtors are maintainable in the like
manner and to the like effect. These provisions shall ap
ply to all proceedings and actions now pending, and those
terminated by final judgment or decree.
SEC. 267. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify on any
proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as upon
the trial of an issue.
SEC. 268. The party or witnesses may be required to attend before
the court or judge, or before a referee appointed by the
court or judge ; if before a referee, the examination shall
be taken by the referee, and certified to the court or judge.
All examinations and answers before a court or judge or
referee, under this chapter, shall he on oath, except that
when a corporation answers, the answer shall be on the
oath of an officer thereof.
SEC. 269. The court or judge may order any property of the judg
ment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either
of himself or any other person, or due to the judgment
debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judg
ment; except that the earnings of the debtor for his per
sonal services, at any time within sixty days next preced
ing the order, cannot be so applied when it is made to ap.
pear, by the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earn
ings are necessary fur the use of a family supported wholly
or partly by his labor.
SEC. 270. The court or judge may also, by order, appoint a re
ceiver of the property of the judgment debtor, in the same
manner and with the like authority as if the appointment
was made by the court according to section two hundred
and fifteen (§ 215). But before the appointment of such
receiver, the court or judge shall ascertain, if practicable,
by the oath of the party or otherwise, whether any other
supplementary proceedings are pending against the judg
ment debtor, and if such proceedings are so pending, the
plaintiff therein shall have notice to appear before him,
and shall likewise have notice of all subsequent proceed
ings in relation to said receivership. No more than one
receiver of the property of a judgment debtor shall be ap
pointed. The court or judge may also, by order, forbid «
transfer or other disposition of the property of the judgment
debtor not exempt from execution, and any interfer
ence therewith.
Whenever the conrt or judge shall grant an order for the
appointment of a receiver of the property of the judg
ment debtor, the same shall be filed in the office of the
Clerk of the Superior Court of the county where the judg
ment-roll in the action or transcript from justice's judg
ment, upon which the proceedings are taken, is filed ; and
the clerk shall record the order in a. book to be kept for that
purpose in his office, to be called " Book of orders appoint
ing receivers of judgment debtors," and shall note the time
of the filing of said order therein. A certified copy of
said order shall be delivered to the receiver named therein,
and he shall be vested with the property and effects of the
judgment debtor from the time of the filing and recording
of the order as aforesaid. The receiver of the judgment
debtor shall be subject to the direction and control of the
court in which the judgment was obtained upon which the
proceedings are founded.
But before he shall be vested with any real property of
such judgment debtor, a certified copy of said order shall
also be filed and recorded on the execution docket, in the
office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county in
which any real estate of such judgment debtor, sought to
be effected by such order, is situated, and also in the office
of the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county in which
such judgment debtor resides.
SEC. 271. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have
property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims
an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the
debt, such interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an
action against such person or corporation by the receiver;
but the court or judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or'
other disposition of such property or interest, till a suffi
cient opportunity be given to the receiver to commence the
action, and prosecute the same to judgment and execution ;
but such order may be modified or dissolved by the court
or judge granting the same, at any time, on such security
as he shall direct.
SEC. 272. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a
referee agreed upon by the parties, or appointed by him, to
report the evidence or the facts, and may, in his discretion,
appoint such referee in the first order, or at any time.
SEC. 273. The judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to any
party bo examined, whether a party to the action or not,
witnesses' fees and disbursements, and a fixed sum in addi
tion, not exceeding thirty dollars, as costs.
SEC. 274. If any person, party, or witness, disobey an order of the
judge or referee, duly served, such person, party, or witness,
may be punished by the judge as for a contempt. And in
all eases of commitment under this chapter, the person com
mitted may, in case of inability to perform the act required,
or to endure the imprisonment, be discharged from impris
onment by the court or judge committing him, or the court
in which the judgment was rendered, on such terms as may
be just.
The sections of this chapter, from section two hundred and
sixty-four (§ 264) to two hundred and seventy-four (§ 274)
inclusive, shall be applicable to all judgments or decrees
that have been recovered before, or shall be recovered, after
the passage of this act.
SEC. 274a. Whenever the real estate of any resident of this State
shall be levied on, by virtue of any execution or other final
process obtained on any debt, such portion thereof as may
be occupied by the owner as an actnal homestead, and
which he may then elect to regard as such, including the
dwelling and buildings thereon, shall be exempt from such
levy, except under an execution or other final process issued
for the collection of a debt contracted :
1. For purchase of said homestead;
2. For such work and labor done, for the owner of the
homestead, as may constitute a laborer's lien ;
3. For such labor done on the premises, as may constitute
a mechanic's lien ;
4. For taxes accruing on said homestead.
SEC. 274b. Before levying upon any homestead thus owned and
occupied, the sheriff or other officer charged with such
Jevy, shall summon three discreet persons qualified to act
as jurors, to whom he shall administer the following oath:
I, A B, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I have no in
terest, near or remote, in the homestead exemption of C D,
and that I will faithfully perform the duties of appraiser,
(or iissessor, as the case may be,) in valuing and laying off
the same. So help me God."
SEC. 274c. he said appraisers shall thereupon proceed to value the
homestead, with its dwelling and buildings thereon, and
lay off to said owner such portion as he may select, or any
agent, attorney, or other person in his behalf, not exceeding
in value one thousand dollars, and to fix and describe the
same by metes and bounds.
SEC. 274d. They shall then make and sign in the presence of the
officer a return of their proceedings, setting forth the prop
erty exempted, which shall be returned by the officer to the
clerk of the court for the county in which the homestead
is situated and filed with the judgment roll in the action,
and a minute of the same entered on the jndgment docket.
SEC. 274e. The levy may be made upon the excess of the homestead,
not laid off according to the provisions of this act, and
the officer shall make substantially the following return
upon the execution : " A. B., C. D., and E. F. summoned
and qualified as appraisers or assessors, (as the case may be)
who set off to X. Y., the homestead exempt by law. Levy
made upon the excess."
SEC. 274f. In case no election is made by the owner, his agent, or
attorney, or any one acting in his behalf, of the homestead,
to be laid off as exempt, the appraisers shall make such
election for him, including always the dwelling and build
ings nsed therewith.
SEC. 274g. Whenever the personal property of any resident of this
State shall be levied upon by virtue of any execution or
other final process issued for the collection "of any debt, and
the owner or any agent, or attorney in his behalf, shall
demand that the same, or any part thereof, shall be ex
empted from sale under such execution, the sheriff or other
officer making such levy, shall summon three appraisers as
heretofore provided, who, having been first duly sworn>
shall appraise and lay off to the judgment debtor such artieles
of personal property as he, or another in his behalf,
select, to the value of five hundred dollars, which articles
shall be exempt from said levy.
SEC. 274h. Return shall be made of such appraisal and setting off
of personal property, in the same manner as is required in section four of this act, upon the laying off of a homestead
exemption.
SEC. 274i. The persons summoned to appraise the personal prop
erty exemption shall take the same oath, and be entitled to
the same fees, as the appraisers of the homestead, and when
both exemptions are claimed by the judgment debtor, at
the same time, one board of appraisers shall lay off both
and be entitled to but one foe.
SEC. 274j. ifferent tracts or parcels of land not contiguous may be
included in the same homestead, when a homestead of con:
tiguous lands is not of the value of one thousand dollars.
SEC. 274k. The cost and expenses of appraising and laying off the
homestead or personal property exemptions, when the same
is made under execution, shali be charged and included in
the officer's bill of fees upon such execution or other final
process; and, when made upon the petition of the owner,
they shall be paid by such owner, and the latter cost shall
be a lien on said homestead.
SEC. 274l. Any officer making a levy, who shall refuse or neglect to
summon and qualify appraisers as heretofore provided for,
or who shall fail to make due return of their proceedings,
or who shall levy upon the homestead set off by said ap
praisers or assessors, (as the case may be) except as herein
provided, shall be liable to indictment for a misdemeanor,
and he and his sureties shall be liable to the owner of said
homestead for all costs and damages in a civil action.
SEC. 274m. Any officer, or appraiser, or assessor, (as the case may be)
who shall wilfully or corruptly conspire with any judgment
debtor, or other appraiser or assessor, (as the case may be)
to undervalue the homestead or personal property exemp
tion of such debtor, or shall assign false metes and bounds,
or make or procure to be made a false and fraudulent
return thereof, shall be liable to indictment for a misde
meanor, and shall be answerable to the judgment creditor
for all costs and damages in a civil action.
SEC. 274n. Any officer, or appraiser, or assessor, who shall wilfully or
corruptly conspire with any judgment creditor, or other ap
praiser pr assessor, to overvalue the homestead or personal
property exemption of any debtor or applicant, or shall as
sign false metes and boundaries, or make, or proeure to he
made, a false and fraudulent return thereof, shall be liable to
indictment for a misdemeanor, and shall be answerable to
the party injured, for all costs and damages in a civil action.
SEC. 274o. If the judgment creditor for whom the levy is made, or
judgment debtor or person entitled to homestead exemp
tion, shall be dissatisfied with the valuation and allotment
of the appraisers or assessors, (as the case may be) he may,
within ten days thereafter, or any other judgment creditor
within six months, and before sale under execution of the
excess, notify the clerk of the township thereof, and file
with him a transcript of the return of the appraisers or
assessors, (as the case may be) and thereupon the clerk
shall notify the other trustees of the township to meet
him, at a time specified within ten days, on the premises, to
re-assess and allot said homestead. At the time specified,
the trustees shall meet .on the premises, aud, having first
taken the oath prescribed for appraisers, they shall view
and examine the homestead laid ofl", and make their report
as required in section twenty-two of this act.
SEC. 274p. If any trustee, or any person summoned as an appraiser^
shall be related by blood or marriage to the debtor or judg
ment creditor, or shall be a party in interest in any action
against the former, he shall be disqualified to serve in the
valuation of the homestead or personal property exemp
tion, and another person qualified to act as juror shall be
summoned and qualified in his place.
SEC. 274q. All acts or clauses of acts, in conflict with this act, or
providing other means for the laying off of a homestead or
personal property exemption, are hereby repealed.
SEC. 274r. The homestead of any resident of this State shaH not be
subject to the lien of any judgment or decree of any court,
or to sale under execution or other process thereon, grow
ing out of any debt contracted, or cause of action accruing
after the first day of May, in the year .of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven, except such as
may be rendered, or issued to secure the payment of obli:
gations contracted for the payment of said homestead, or
for laborer's or mechanic's liens for work done and per
formed for the claimant of said homestead, or for lawful
taxes.
SEC. 276. Costs shall be allowed of course, to the plaintiff, upon a
recovery, in the following cases:
1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when
a claim of title to real property arises on the pleadings, or is
certified by the court to have come in question at the trial;
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property ;
3. In the actions of which a court of a justice of the peace
has no jurisdiction ;
4. In an action for assault, battery, false imprisonment,
libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation
or seduction, if the plaintiff recover less than fifty dollars
damages, he shall recover no more cost than, damages. When
several actions shall be brought on one bond, recognizance,
promissory note, bill of exchange or instrument in writing,
or in any other case, for the same cause of action against
several parties, who might have been joined as defendants
in the same action, no costs other than disbursements shall
be allowed to the plaintiff, in more than one of such actions,
which shall be, at his election ; provided that the party or
parties proceeded against in such other action or actions,
shall, at the commencement of the previous action or actions,
have been within the State and not secreted.
SEC. 277. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant, in the
actions mentioned in the last section, unless the plaintiff
be entitled to costs therein.
SEC. 278. In other actions, coats may be allowed or not, in the dis
cretion of the court.
In all actions where there are several defendants not
united in interest, and making separate defences by separate
answers, and the plaintiff fails to recover judgment against
all, the court may award costs to such of the defendants as
have judgment in their favor, or any of them.
In the following cases the costs of an appeal to any court
6hall he in the discretion of the court:
1. When a new trial shall bo ordered ;
2. When a judgment 8hall be affirmed in part and re
versed in part.
SEC. 282. When the judgment is for the recovery of money, inter
est, from the time of the verdict or report until judgment
be finally entered, shall be computed by the clerk, and
added to the costs of the party entitled thereto.
SEC. 283. The clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment, the
sum of the allowances for costs, as provided by law, the
necessary disbursements, including the fees of officers al
lowed by law, the fees of witnesses, the reasonable compen
sation of commissioners in taking depositions, the fees of
referees, and the expense of printing the papers for any
hearing, when required by a rule of the court. The dis
bursements shall be stated in detail. Whenever it shall be
necessary to adjust costs in any interlocutory proceeding in
an action, or in any special proceeding, the same shall be
adjusted by the clerk of the court to which the proceed
ings were returned, except in those matters in which the
allowance is required to be made by the judge.
SEC. 284. The fees of the clerk, sheriff and other officers of the
court, shall be as prescribed by law.
SEC. 285. The fees of referees shall be three dollars to each, for every
day spent in the business of the reference ; but the parties
may agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation.
SEC. 286. When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintiff, the
guardian by whom he appeared in the action, shall be re
sponsible therefor, and payment thereof may be enforced by
attachment.
SEC. 287. 1. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor,
administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person ex
pressly authorized by statute to sue, costs shall be recovered,
as in an action by or against a person prosecuting or defend
ing in his own right ; but such costs shall be chargeable
only upon, or collected (out) of the estate, fund, or party rep
resented, unless the court shall direct the same to be paid by
the plaintiff or defendant personally, for mismanagement
or bad faith, in such action or defence. But this section
shall not be construed to allow costs against executors or
administrators whore they are now exempted therefrom by
law.
2. And whenever any claim against a deceased person
shall be referred, the prevailing party shall be entitled to
recover the fees of referees and witnesses, and other neces
sary disbursements, to be taxed according to law.
SEC. 288. In all civil actions prosecuted in the name of the State,
by an officer duly authorized tor that purpose, the State
shall be liable for costs in the same cases, and to the same
extent, as private parties. If a private person be joined
with the State as plaintiff, he shall be liable, in the first
instance for the defendant's costs, which shall not be recov
ered of the State, till after execntion issued therefor against
such private party and returned unsatisfied.
SEC. 289. In an action prosecuted in the name of the State, for the
recovery of money or property, or to establish a right or
claim, for the benefit of any county, city, town, village, cor
poration or person, costs awarded against the plaintiff shall
be a charge against the party for whose benefit the action
was prosecuted, and not against the State.
SEC. 289a. n all cases to which the State of North Carolina is a
party, which may be carried from the courts of this State,
or from the Circuit Court of the United States, by appeal
or writ of error, to the Supreme Court of the United States,
and in which the State shall be adjudged to pay the costs
in said last mentioned court, it shall be the duty of the
Attorney-General, to certify to the Governor, the amount
of any such bill of costs, who shall thereupon issue a war
rant for the same, directed to the Public Treasurer, who
shall pay the same, out of any moneys in the treasury, not
otherwise appropriated.
SEC. 290. In actions in which the cause of action shall, by assign
ment after the commencement of the action, or in any other
manner, become the property of a person not a party to the
action, 1such person shall be liable for the costs, in the same
manner as if he were a party, and payment thereof may be
enforced by attachment.
SEC. 291. Upon the settlement, before judgment of any action
mentioned in section two hundred and seventy-six (§ 276),
no greater sum shall be demanded from the defendant, as
costs, than at the rates prescribed by that section.
SEC. 292. On an appeal from a Justice of the Peace to a Superior
Court, or from a Superior Court or a Judge thereof, to the
Supreme Court, if the appellant shall recover judgment in
the appellate court, he shall recover the costs of the appel
late court, and those he ought to have recovered below, had
the judgment of that court been correct, and also, restitu
tion of any costs of the court appealed from, which he shall
have paid under the erroneous judgment of such court.
If, in any court of appeal, there shall be judgment for a
new trial, or for a new jury, or if the judgment appealed
from be not wholly reversed, but partly affirmed and partly
disaffirmed, the costs shall be in the discretion of the appel
late court.
SEC. 293. Costs in actions brought before the ratification of this
act, shall be according to existing laws.
SEC. 294. The costs in special proceedings shall be as herein allowed
in civil actions, unless where otherwise specially provided.
SEC. 295. After an appeal from the judgment of a justice of the
peace shall be filed with the Clerk of a Superior Court,
the costs in all subsequent stages, shall be as herein pro
vided, for actions originally brought to the Superior Court.
SEC. 296. Writs of error in civil actions, as they have heretofore
existed, are abolished ; and the only mode of reviewing a
judgment or order in a civil action shall be that prescribed
by this title.
The provisions of this title shall apply to all actions tried
after the Fall Terms of the Superior Courts, held next after
the ratification of this act. The existing laws shall govern
trials and appeals in said courts at said Fall Terms.
SEC. 297. An order, made out of court, without notice to the ad-
verse party, may be vacated or modified, without notice,
by the judge who made it, or may be vacated or modified
on notice, in the manner in which other motions are made.
SEC. 298. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed
in this title; this section shall apply to existing suits.
SEC. 299. An appeal may be taken from every judicial order or
determination of a Judge of a Superior Court, upon or
involving a matter of law or legal inference, whether made
in or out of term; which affects a substantial right claimed
in any action or proceeding ; or which in effect determines
the action, and prevents a judgment from which an appeal
might be taken ; or discontinues the action, or grants or
refuses a new trial.
SEC. 300. The appeal must be taken from a judgment rendered out
of term, within ten days after notice thereof, and from a
judgment rendered in term, within ten days after its rendi
tion, bnt execution shall not be suspended until the giving
by the appellant of the undertakings hereinafter required
by sections three hundred and three (§303), to three hun
dred and twelve (§ 312), both inclusive, of this Code.
SEC. 301. Within the time prescribed in the preceding section, the
appellant shall cause his appeal to be entered by the clerk
on the judgment docket, and notice thereof to he given to
the adverse party. He shall cause to be prepared a concise
statement of the case, embodying the instructions of the
judge as signed by him, if there be any exception thereto,
and the requests of the counsel of the parties for instruc
tions, if there be any exception on account of the granting
or withholding thereof, and stating separately in articles
numbered, the errors alleged. A copy of this statement
shall be served on the respondent as provided in section
eighty (§ 80), within five days from the entry of the appeal
taken ; within three days after such service, the respondent
shall return the copy with his approval or specific amend
ments endorsed or attached ; if the case be approved by
the respondent, it shall be filed with the clerk as a part of
the record ; if not returned with objections within the time
prescribed, it shall be deemed approved ; if returned with
objections as prescribed, the appellant shall immediately
request the judge to fix a time and place for settling the
case before him ; and the judge shall forthwith notify the
attorneys of the parties to appear before him for that pur
pose, at a certain time and place, within the judicial district,
which time shall not be more than twenty days from the
receipt of such request; and, at the time and place stated^
the judge shall settle and sign the case, and deliver a copy
to the attorney of each party, or if they be not present, file
a copy in the office of the clerk of the court. In settling
the case, the written instructions signed by the judge, and
the written requests for instructions signed by the counsel,
and filed as prescribed in sections two hundred and thirty-
eight and two hundred and thirty-nine (§§ 238 and 239),
shall be taken as conclusive as to what such instructions
and requests were. If a copy of the case settled, was deliv- #
ered to the appellant, he shall, within five days thereafter,
file the same with the clerk, and in case he fail to do so,
the respondent may file his copy.
SEC. 302. The clerk on receiving a copy of the case settled, as
required in the preceding section, shall make a copy of
the judgment roll and of the case, and within twenty days,
transmit the same, duly certified, to the Clerk of the Su
preme Court.
SEC. 303. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written
undertaking must be executed on the part of the appellant,
with good and sufficient surety in such sum, as may be or
dered by the court, not in any case to exceed the sum of
two hundred and fifty dollars, to the effect that the appel
lant will pay all costs and damages which may be awarded
against him on the appeal, or such sum as may be ordered
by the court, must be deposited with the clerk with whom
the judgment or order was entered, to abide the event of the
appeal. Such undertaking or deposit may be waived by a
written consent on the part of the respondent.
SEC. 303a. 1. When any party to a civil action tried and determined
in the Superior Court shall, at the time of trial, desire an
appeal from the jndgment rendered in said action to the
Supreme Court, and shall be unable, by reason of his pov
erty, te give the security required by law for said appeal,
it shall be the duty of the Judge of said Superior Court to
make an order allowing: said party to appeal from said judg
ment to the Supreme Court as in other cases of appeal now
allowed by law, without giving security therefor: Pro
vided, however, That the party desiring to appeal from said
judgment shall make affidavit that he is unable, by reason
of his poverty, to give the security required by law for said
appeal, and that said party is advised by counsel learned
in the law, that there is error in matter of law in the de
cision of the Superior Court in said action : Provided,
further, That said affidavit shall be accompanied by a
written statement from a practicing attorney of said Su
perior Court, that he has examined the affiant's case, and
that he is of opinion that the' decision of the Superior
Court, in said action, is contrary to law.
2. This act (§ 303a) shall apply to all cases tried and de
termined at the last term (Fall, 1873), of the several Su
perior Courts of this State.
SEC. 303b. 1. In all cases of conviction in the Superior Court for
this State for any criminal offence, the defendant or defeni
dants so convicted, shall have the right to an appeal, with-
' outgiving security for costs, upon filing an affidavit that he
is wholly unable to give security for the costs, and he is
advised by counsel that he has reasonable cause for an ap
peal prayed for, and that the application is in good faith.
2. It shall be the duty of the judge, on filing of the affi
davit required in section one (§ 303a) of this act, to grant
the appeal without the security for costs, and for any offence
liable by the laws of this State, shall require the defendant
to enter into bond or recognizance in a reasonable sum, to
make his appearance at the first term of the Superior Court,
to be held in the county after the adjournment of the Su
perior Court to which the appeal was prayed, and to further
answer the charge preferred.
SEC. 304. If the appeal be from a judgment directing the payment
of money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgment,
unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the
appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that, if the
judgment appealed from, or any part thereof, be affirmed,
or the appeal be dismissed, the appellant will pay the
amount directed to be paid by the judgment, or the part
of such amount as to which the judgment shall be affirmed,
if it be affirmed only in part, and all damages which shall
be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal. When
ever it shall be made satisfactorily to appear to the courts
that since the execution of the undertaking the sureties
have become insolvent, the court may, by rule or order,
require the appellant to execute, file and serve a new under
taking as above ; and in case of neglect to execute such
undertaking within twenty days after the service of a copy
of the rule or order requring such new undertaking, the
appeal may, on motion to the court, be dismissed with
costs. Whenever it shall be necessary for a party to any
action or proceeding to give a bond or an undertaking,
witb surety or sureties, he may, in lieu thereof, deposit
with the officer or into court, as the case may require,
money to the amount for which such bond or undertaking
is to be given. The court in which such action or proceed
ing is pending may direct what disposition shall be made
of such money, pending the action or proceeding. In any
case where, by this section, the money is to be deposited
with an officer, a judge of the court, at special term, or at
chambers, upon the application of either party, may, be
fore such deposit is made, order it to be deposited in court
instead of with such officer; and a deposit made, pursuant
to such order, shall be of the same effect as if made with
such officer.
SEC. 305. If the judgment appealed from, direct the assignment or
delivery of documents or personal property, the execution
of the judgment shall not be stayed by appeal, unless the
things required to be assigned or delivered be brought into
court, or placed in the custody of such officer or receiver
as the court shall appoint, or unless an undertaking be en
tered into on the part of the appellant, by at least two sure
ties, and in such amount as the court, or a judge thereof,
shall direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the
order of the appellate court upon the appeal.
SEC. 306. If the judgment appealed from direct the execution of a
conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judg
ment shall not be stayed by the appeal until the instrument
shall have been executed and deposited with the clerk with
whom the judgment is entered, to abide the judgment of
the appellate court.
SEC. 307. If the judgment appealed from direct the sale or delivery
of possession of real property, the execution of the same
shall not be stayed, unless a written undertaking be exe
cuted on the part of the appellant, with two sureties, to the
effect that, during the possession of such property by the
appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed,
and waste thereon, and that if the judgment be affirmed, he
will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property,
from the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession
thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not exceeding a sum to
be fixed by a judge of the court by which judgment was
rendered, and which shall be specified in the undertaking.
When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises,
and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the
undertaking shall also provide for the payment of such
deficiency.
SEC. 308. Whenever an appeal is perfected as provided by sections
three hundred and four, three hundred and five, three hun
dred and six, and three hundred and seven (§§ 304, 305, 306
and 307), it stays all further proceedings in the court below
upon the judgment appealed from, or upon the matter em
braced therein ; but the court below may proceed upon any
other matter included in the action and not affected by the
judgment appealed from. And the court below may, in its
discretion, dispense with or limit the security required by sections three hundred and four, three hundred and five,
and three hundred and seven (§§ 304, 305 and 307), when
the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other
person acting in another's right ; and may also limit such
security to an amount not more than fifty thousand dollars,
in the cases mentioned in sections three hundred and five,
three hundred and six, and three hundred and seven (§§ 305,
306 and 307), where it would otherwise, according to those sections, exceed that sum.
SEC. 309. The undertakings prescribed by sections three hundred
and four, three hundred and five, three hundred and six,
and three hundred and seven (§§ 304, 305, 306 and 307),
may be in one instrument or several, at the option of the
appellant; and a copy, including, the names and residence
of the sureties, must be served on the adverse party, with
the notice of appeal, unless a deposit is made as provided
in section three hundred and four (§ 304), and notice thereof
given.
SEC. 310. An undertaking, upon an appeal, shall be of no effect,
unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties that
they are each worth double the amount specified therein.
The respondent may, however, except to the sufficiency of
the sureties, within ten days after the notice of the appeal ;
and unless they or other sureties justify before the judge or
court below, or as prescribed by sections one hundred and
sixty-five and one hundred and sixty-six (§§ 165 and 166),
within ten days thereafter, the appeal shall be regarded as
if no undertaking had been given. The justification shall
be upon a notice of not less than five days.
SEC. 311. In the cases not provided for in sections three hundred
and five, three hundred and six, three hundred and seven,
and three hundred and eight (§§ 305, 306, 307 and 308),
the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the undertaking men
tioned in section three hundred and four (§304-), shall stay
proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment appealed
from ; except that where it directs the sale of perishable
property, the court below may order the property to be
sold, and the proceeds thereof, to be deposited or invested
to abide the judgment of the appellate court.
SEC. 312. The undertaking must be filed with the clerk with whom
the judgment or order appealed from was entered. The
provisions of this chapter as to the security to be given upon
appeals, and as to the stay of proceedings, shall apply to
all appeals taken to the Supreme Court.
SEC. 313. Upon an appeal from a jndgment, the court may review
any intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily
affecting the judgment.
SEC. 314. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate
court may reverse, affirm or modify, the judgment or order
appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of
appeal, and as to any or all of the parties, and may, if
necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment
is reversed or modified, the appellate court may make com
plete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erro
neous judgment.
The foregoing sections, from section three hundred and
four (§ 304) to section three hundred and fourteen (§ 314),
both inclusive, shall apply to existing suits.
SEC. 315. Parties to a question in difference, which might be the
subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a
case containing the facts upon which the controversy de
pends, and present a submission of the same to any court
which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought.
But it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real,
and the proceeding in good faith, to determine the rights of
the parties. The judge shall thereupon hear and determine
the case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were
depending.
SEC. 316. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment docket, as in
other cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to
trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the judg
ment shall constitute the judgment-roll. The costs of the
trial shall be five dollars. 
SEC. 317. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as
if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be subject
to appeal in like manner.
SEC. 318. When a judgment shall be recovered against one or more
of several persons jointly indebted upon a contract, by pro
ceeding as provided in section eighty-seven (§ 87), those
who were not originally summoned to answer the complaint
may be summoned to show cause why they should not be
bound by the judgment, in the same manner as if they had
been originally summoned.
SEC. 319. In case of the death of the judgment debtor after judg
ment, the heirs, devisees, or legatees of the judgment debtor,
or the tenants of real property owned by him and affected
by the judgment, may, after the expiration of three years,
from the time of granting letters testamentary or of admin
istration, upon thp estate of the testator or intestate, be sum
moned to show cause why the judgment should not be
enforced against the estate of the judgment debtor in their
hands respectively ; and the personal representatives of a
deceased judgment debtor may be so summoned at any
time within one year after their appointment. The per
sonal representative of a deceased judgment debtor, if there
be any, shall always be parties to any summons against his
heirs, devisees, legatees or tenants, to enforce the judgment.
SEC. 320. The summons provided in the last section shall be signed
by the clerk of any court in which the judgment was dock
eted before the death of the debtor, and in which he had
property affected thereby, but shall be made returnable to
the court in which the judgment was recovered; it shall
describe the judgment, and require the person summoned
to show cause within twenty days after the service of the
summons; and shall be served in like manner as the origi
nal summons. 
SEC. 321. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of
the person causing it to issue, that the judgment has not
been satisfied, to his knowledge or information and belief,
and shall specify the amount due thereon.
SEC. 322. Upon such summons any party summoned may answer
within the time specified therein, denying the judgment,
or setting up any defence thereto which may have arisen
subsequently to such judgment; and in addition thereto,
if the party be proceeded against according to section three
hundred and eighteen (§318), he may make any defence,
which he might have made to the action if the summons
had been served on him at the time when the same was
originally commenced, and such defence had been then in
terposed to such action.
SEC. 323. The party issuing the summons, may demur or reply to
the answer, and the party summoned, may demur to the
reply; and the issues may be tried and judgment may be
given in the same manner as in an action, and enforced by
execution, or the application of the property charged to
the payment of the judgment may be compelled by attach
ment, if necessary.
SEC. 324. The answer and reply shall be verified in the like cases
and manner, and be subject to the same rules, as the an
swer and reply in an action.
SEC. 325. A judgment by confession may be entered, without
action, either in or out of term, either for money due or to
become due, or to secure any person against contingent lia
bility on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner
prescribed by this chapter.
SEC. 326. A statement in writing must be made, signed by the
defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect :
1. It mnst state the amount for which judgment may be
entered, and authorize the entry of judgment therefor.
2. If it be for money due, or to become due, it must state
concisely the facts out of which it arose, and must show that
the sum confessed therefor, is justly due, or to become due.
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against
a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts con
stituting the liability, and show that the sum confessed
therefor, does not exceed the same.
SEC. 327. The statement may be filed with the Clerk of the Superior
Court of the county in which the defendant resides, or if
he does not reside in the State, of some county in which he
has property. The clerk shall endorse upon it, and enter
en his judgment docket, a judgment of the court, for the
amount confessed, with three dollars costs, together with
disbursements. The statement and affidavit, with the judg
ment endorsed, shall thenceforth become the judgment-roll.
Executions may be issued and enforced thereon, in the same
manner as upon judgments in other cases in such courts.
When the debt for which the judgment is recovered is not
all due, or is payable in installments, and the installments
are not all due, the execution may issue upon such judg
ment for the collection of such installments as have become
due, and shall be in the usual form, but shall have endorsed
thereon, by the attorney or person issuing the same, a direc
tion to the sheriff to collect the amount due on such judg
ment, with interest and costs, which amount shall be stated,
with interest thereon, and the costs of said judgment. Not
withstanding the issue and collection of such execution,
the judgment shall remain as security for the installments
thereafter to become due ; and whenever any further install
ments become due, execution may, in like manner, be issued
for the collection and enforcement of the same.
SEC. 328. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or ver
dict, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing to allow
judgment to be taken against him tor the sum or property,
or to the effect therein specified, with costs. If the plaintiff
accept the offer, and give notice thereof in writing within
ten days, he may file the summons, complaint, and offer,
with an affidavit of notice of acceptance, and the clerk
must thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the notice
of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed with
drawn, and cannot be given in evidence ; and if the plaintiff
fail to obtain a more favorable judgment he cannot recover
costs, but must pay the defendant's costs from the time of
the offer ; and in case the defendant shall set up a counter
claim in his answer to an amount greater than the plain
tiff's claim, or sufficient to reduce the plaintiff's recovery
below fifty dollars, then the plaintiff may serve upon the
defendant an offer in writing, to allow judgment to be taken
against him for the amount specified, or to allow said coun
ter-claim to the amount specified with costs. If the defen
dant accept the offer, and give notice thereof in writing
within ten days, he may enter judgment as above for the
amount specified, if the offer entitle him to judgment, or
the amount specified in said offer shall be allowed him in
the trial of the action. If the notice of acceptance be not
given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be
given in evidence; and if the defendant fail to recover a
more favorable judgment, or to establish his counter-claim
for a greater amount than is specified in said offer, he can
not recover costs, but must pay the plaintiff's costs from
the time of the offer.
SEC. 329. In an action arising on contract, the defendant may, with
his answer, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing,
that if he fail in his defence, the damages be assessed at a
specified sum ; and if the plaintiff signify his acceptance
thereof in writing, twenty days before the trial, and on the
trial have a verdict, the damages shall be assessed accord
ingly-
SEC. 330. If the plaintiff do not accept the offer, he shall prove his
damages as if it had not been made, and shall not be per
mitted to give it in evidence. And if the damages assessed
in his favor shall not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer,
the defendant shall recover his expenses incurred in conse
quence of any necessary preparation or defence in respect
to the question of damages. Such expense shall be ascer
tained at the trial.
SEC. 331. ither party may exhibit to the other, or to his attorney,
at any time before the trial, any paper material to the
action, and request an admission in writing of its genuine
ness. If the adverse party, or his attorney, fail to give the
admission within four days after the request, and if the
party exhibiting the paper be afterwards put to expense in
order to prove its genuineness, and the same be finally
proved or admitted on the trial, such expense, to be ascer
tained at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing the
admission, unless it appear to the satisfaction of the court
that there were good reasons for the refusal. The court
before which an action is pending, or a judge thereof, may,
in their discretion, and upon due notice, order either party
to give to the other, within a specified time, an inspection
and copy, or permission to take a copy, of any books,
papers and documents in his possession or under his con
trol, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action
or the defence therein. If compliance with the order be
refused, the court, on motion, may exclude the paper from
being given in evidence, or punish the party refusing, or
both. This section shall apply to existing suits.
SEC. 332. No action to obtain discovery under oath, in aid of the
prosecution or defence of another action, shall be allowed,
nor shall any examination of a party be had, on behalf of
the adverse party, except in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
SEC. 333. A party to an action may be examined as a witness, at
the instance of the adverse party, or of any one of several
adverse parties, and for that purpose may be compelled, in
the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examina
tion, as any other witness, to testify, either at the trial, or
conditionally, or upon commission.
SEC. 334. The examination, instead of being had at the trial, as
provided in the last session, may be had at any time before
the trial, at the option of the party claiming it, before a
judge or clerk of the court, on a previous notice to the party
to be examined, and any other adverse party, of at least five
days, unless, for good cause shown, the judge order other
wise. But the party to be examined shall not be compelled
to attend in another county than that of his residence, or
where he may be served with a summons for his attendance.
SEC. 335. The partty to be examined, as in the last section provided,
may be compelled to attend in the same manner as a wit
ness, who is to be examined conditionally ; and the exam
ination shall be taken and filed by the judge or clerk in
like manner, and may be read by either party on the trial.
SEC. 336. The examination of the party thus taken, may be rebut
ted by adverse testimony.
SEC. 337. If a party refuse to attend and testify, as in the last four sections provided, he may be punished as for a contempt,
and his complaint, answer, or reply may be stricken out.
SEC. 338. A party examined by an adverse party, as in this chapter
provided, may be examined on his own behalf, subject to
the same rules of examination as other witnesses. But if
he testify to any new matter, not responsive to the inquiries
put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to explain or
qualify his answers thereto, or discharge when his answers
would charge himself, such adverse party may offer himself
as a witness on his own behalf in respect to such new mat
ter, subject to the same rules of examination a3 other wit
nesses, and shall be so received.
SEC. 339. A person for whose immediate benefit the action is pros
ecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may
be examined as a witness, in the same manner, and subject
to the same rules of examination, as if he were named as a
party.
SEC. 340. A party may be examined on behalf of his co-plaintiff or
of a co-defendant as to any matter in which he is not jointly
interested or liable with such co-plaintiff or co-defendant,
and as to which a separate, and not joint verdict or judg
ment can be rendered. And he may be compelled to attend
in the same manner as at the instance of an adverse party ;
but the examination thus taken shall not be used in the
behalf of the party examined. And whenever, in the case
mentioned in sections three hundred and thirty-three and
three hundred and thirty-four (§§ 333 and 334), one of
several plaintiffs or defendants who are joint contractors; or
are united in interest, is examined by the adverse party, the
other of such plaintiffs or defendants may offer himself as
a witness to the same cause of action or defence, and shall
be so received.
SEC. 341. In any trial or inquiry in any suit, action or proceeding
in any court, or before any person having, by law or con
sent of parties, authority to examine witnesses or hear evi
dence, the husband or wife of any party thereto, or of any
person in whose behalf any such suit, action or proceeding
is brought, prosecuted, opposed or defended, shall, except
as hereinafter stated, be competent and compellable to give
evidence, the same as any other witness, on behalf of any
party to such suit, action or proceeding. Nothing herein
contained shall render any husband or wife competent or
compellable to give evidence for or against the other, in any
criminal action or proceeding (except to prove the fact of
marriage in case of bigamy,) or in any action or proceeding
in consequence of adultery, or in any action or proceeding
for divorce on account of adultery (except to prove the fact
of marriage,) or in any action or proceeding for or on
account of criminal conversation. No husband or wife shall
be compellable to disclose any confidential communication
made by one to the other during their marriage. The sev
eral sections of this chapter shall apply to existing suits.
SEC. 342. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded by rea
son of his interest in the event of the action.
SEC. 343. A party to an action or special proceeding in any and all
courts, and before any and all officers and persons acting
judicially, may be examined as a witness on his own behalf,
or in behalf of any other party, conditionally, on commis
sion and upon the trial or hearing in the case, in the same
manner and subject to the same rules of examination as
any other witness ; provided, however, that no party to the
action or proceeding, nor any person who has a legal or
equitable interest which may be affected by the event of the
action or proceeding, nor any person who, previous to such
examination, has had such an interest, however the same
may have been transferred to, or come to, the party to the
action or proceeding, nor any assignor of anything in con
troversy in the action, shall be examined in regard to any
transaction or communication between such witness and a
person at the time of such examination deceased, insane or
lunatic, as a witness against a party then prosecuting or
defending the action as executor, administrator, heirs-atlaw,
next of kin, assignee, legatee, devisee, or survivor of
such deceased person, or as assignee or committee of such
insane person or lunatic, when such examination or any
judgment or determination in such action or proceeding,
can in any manner affect the interest of such witness or
the interest previously owned or represented by him. But
when such executor, administrator, heir-at-law, next of kin,
assignee, legatee, devisee, survivor or committee, shall be
examined on his own behalf, in regard to such transaction
or communication, or the testimony of such deceased or
insane person or lunatic in regard to such transaction or
communication (however the same may have been per
petuated or made competent), shall be given in evidence on
the trial or hearing on behalf of such executor, adminis
trator, heir-at-law, next of kin, assignee, legatee, devisee,
survivor or committee, then all other persons, not other
wise rendered incompetent, shall be made competent wit
nesses in relation to such transaction or communication on
said trial or hearing. The sections of this chapter shall
apply to existing suits.
SEC. 343i. Any plaintiff or defendant in a civil suit may, after
action brought, and as well before as after issue joined, take
the deposition of such persons whose evidence he may
desire to use in the case, under such rules as to notice as
may have been or may be established by the court, in which
the suit is pending, for the taking of depositions, without
any special order therefor. And if there be no general
rule as to the time of notice, nor any special order made in
the cause to that effect, the time of notice shall be as fol
lows : Three entire days, when the party notified resides
within ten miles of the place where the deposition is to be
taken ; in all other cases, one day more for even' addi
tional ten miles. The depositions shall be taken on com
mission issuing from the court, and under the seal thereof,
by one or more commissioners, who shall be of kin to
neither party, and shall be appointed by the clerk when
depositions are taken before the cause is put to issue. The
depositions shall be subscribed and sealed up by the com
missioner and returned to the court, the clerk whereof shall
pass upon them under the same rules as were observed by
clerks and masters, in respect of depositions to be read in
courts of equity ; and all such depositions, when passed
upon and allowed to be read by the clerk without appeal,
or by the court on appeal from his order, shall be deemed
legal evidence, if the witness be competent, and may be
read on the trial of the suit, provided they be depositions
of the Governor, Secretary of State, Treasurer, AttorneyGeneral,
Solicitor for the State, or of any Judge, Presi
dent of the University or the head of any other incorpo
rated college of this State, or of any deceased person,
or of any person so afflicted as to be unable to travel
to court, or of any person become insane since the taking
of his deposition, or of any person absent from the State,
or then removing from the State : Provided, however,
that nothing herein contained shall prevent any person
from obtaining from the court a special order for the taking
of depositions in any cause ; but depositions, when so taken
and allowed to be read under the rules aforesaid, shall
be as effectual to all intents as evidence, as if they were
taken in the manner aforesaid : And provided always,
that the adverse party shall have the power to cross-examine
the witness.
SEC. 343k. Commissioners to take depositions, appointed by the
courts of this State, or by the courts of the States or Ter
ritories of the United States, arbitrators, referees, and all
persons acting under a commission issuing from any court
of record in this State, are hereby empowered, they or the
clerks of the courts respectively in this State, to which
such commission shall be returnable, to issue subpoenas
specifying the time and place for the attendance of wit
nesses before them, and to administer oaths to said wit
nesses, to the end that they may give their testimony. And
any witness, appearing before any of the said persons, and
refusing to give his testimony on oath touching such mat
ters as he may be lawfully examined unto, shall be com
mitted, by warrant of the person before whom he shall so
refuse, to the common jail of the county, there to remain
until he may be willing to give his evidence ; which war
rant of commitment shall recite what authority the person
hath to take the testimony of such witness, and the refusal
of the witness to give it.
SEC. 343l. The sheriff of the county where the witness may be,
shall execute all such subpoenas, and make due return
thereof before the commissioner, or other person, before
whom the witness is to appear, in the same manner, and
under the same penalties, as in case of process of a like
kind returnable to court ; and when the witness shall be
summoned live days before the time of his required attend
ance, and shall fail to appear according to the precept and
give evidence, the default shall be noted by the commis
sioner, arbitrator, or other person aforesaid ; and in case
the default be made before a commissioner acting under
authority from courts without the State, the defaulting
witness shall forfeit and pay to the party at whose instance
he may be summoned fifty dollars, and on the trial for such
penalty, the summons issued by the commissioner, or other
person as aforesaid, with the indorsement thereon of due
service by the officer serving the same, together with the
default noted as aforesaid and indorsed on the summons,
shall be prima facie evidence of the forfeiture, and suf
ficient to entitle the plaintiff to judgment for the same,
unless the witness may show his incapacity to have attended.
SEC. 343m. But in case the default be made before a commissioner,
arbitrator, referee or other person, acting under a commis
sion or authority from any of the courts of this State, then
the same shall be certified under his hand, and returned
with the subpoena to the court by which he was commis
sioned or empowered to take the evidence of such witness;
and thereupon the court shall adjudge the defaulting wit
ness to pay to the party at whose instance he was sum
moned, the sum of forty dollars ; but execution shall not
issue therefor until the same be ordered by the court, after
such proceedings had as are provided (by law).
SEC. 343n. Witnesses summoned to appear at any survey, or before
any jury of view, or before any commissioner, arbitrator,
or other person authorized to require their attendance, shall
be entitled to the same fees as for similar attendance at the
court of the county, and may prove, by their own oath,
their attendance, mileage and ferriage, before such person,
who is hereby authorized to administer the oath ; and when
they shall attend on any commission issuing from without
the State, they may recover the fees for attendance against
the party summoning them, or his agent or attorney directing them to be summoned ; and when they shall attend
under a commission or authority from any court in this
State, the fees for attendance shall be proved as aforesaid,
and be certified to the proper court and taxed as if the
witness had attended the court, among the costs of the
cause ; but nevertheless, such fees may be immediately
recovered against the party summoning, (by-law).
SEC. 343o. In all cases not already provided for, when witnesses
are required to attend any commissioners, referees, order
of survey, or jury of view, a summons shall be issued by the
clerk of the court, at the request of either party, express
ing the day and place when and where they are to appear,
the names of the parties to the suit, and in whose behalf
summoned.
SEC. 344. Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered in
writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated
an order.
SEC. 345. 1. An application for an order is a motion.
2. Motions may be made to the clerk of a Superior
Court, or to a judge out of court, except for a new trial on
the merits.
3. Motions must be made within the district in which
the action is triable.
4. A motion to vacate or modify a provisional remedy,
and an appeal from an order allowing a provisional remedy,
shall have preference over all other motions.
5. No order to stay proceedings, for a longer time than
twenty days, shall he granted by a judge out of court, ex
cept upon previous notice to the adverse party.
6. When any party intends to make or oppose a motion,
in any court of record, and it shall be necessary for him to
have the affidavit of any person who shall have refused to
make the same, such court may, by order, appoint a referee
to take the affidavit or deposition of such person. Such
person may be subpoenaed and compelled to attend and
make an affidavit before such referee, the same as before a
referee to whom it is referred to try an issue. And the
fees of such referee for such service shall be three dollars
per day.
7. Whenever any motion shall be made in any cause or
proceeding in any of the courts of this State, to obtain an
injunction order, order of arrest, or warrant of attachment,
in any such action or proceeding, it shall be the duty of
the judge before whom such motion is made, to render and
make known lua decision within ten days after the day
upon which such motion shall, or may, be submitted to him
for decision.
SEC. 346. When a notice of a motion is necessary, it must be served
eight days before the time appointed tor the hearing; but
the court or judge may, by an order to show cause, pre
scribe a shorter time.
SEC. 347. It shall not be necessary, to entitle an affidavit in the
action, but an affidavit made without a title, or with a de
fective title, shall be as valid and effectual, for every pur
pose, as if it were duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to
the action or proceeding in which it is made.
SEC. 348. The time within which an act is to be done, as herein
provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day,
and including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall
be excluded.
SEC. 349. Notices shall be in writing ; notices and other papers
may be served on the party or his attorney personally, or
in the manner prescribed in section eighty (§ 80), where
not otherwise provided in this act.
. If npon rii attorney, service may be made during his
absence from his office, by leaving the paper with his clerk
therein, or with a person having charge thereof; "or, when
there is no person in the office, by leaving it, between the
hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a
conspicuous place in the office ; or, if it be not open so as to
admit of such service, then by leaving it at the attorney's
residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper
at his residence, between the hours of six in the morning
and nine in the evening, with some person of suitable age
and discretion.
3. If upon a person who cannot be found, after due dili
gence, or who is not a resident of this State, the service
thereof may be made by the publication of the notice, once
a week, for four successive weeks, in some newspaper pub
lished in the county from which the notice is issued; and,
if there be no newspaper published therein, then in some
newspaper published within the judicial district, and a copy
of the notice must be deposited in the post office, directed
to the person to be served, at his usual place of residence,
if it be known, and the postage paid, and the proof of ser
vice shall be as is now required by law in the case of the
service of a summons by publication.
4. Service of a subpoena for witnesses may be made by a
sheriff, coroner or constable, and proved by the return of
such officer ; or the service may be made by any person
not a party to the action, and proved by his oath.
A subpoena for witnesses need not be signed by the clerk
of the court, it shall be sufficient if subscribed by the party
or his attorney.
SEC. 350. Service by mail may be made where the person making
the service and the person on whom it is to be made reside
in different places, between which there is regular communication by mail. But service by mail shall not be good
on any party living more than one mile from the post office
to which it is addressed.
SEC. 351. In case of service by mail, the paper must be deposited
in the post office, addressed to the person on whom it is to
be served, at his place of residence, and the postoge paid.
SEC. 352. Where the service is by mail, it shall be double the time
required for a letter to reach the party to whom it is ad
dressed by the ordinary usage of the mail.
SEC. 353. The provisions of this chapter does not apply to the ser
vice of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to
bring a party into contempt. The several sections of this chapter shall apply to existing suits.
SEC. 354. Whenever, pursuant to this act, the sheriff may be re
quired to serve or execute any summons, order or judgment,
or to do any other act, he shall be bound to do so in like
manner as upon process issued to him, and shall be equally
liable in all respects for neglect of duty; and, if the sheriff
be a party, the coroner shall be bound to perform the ser
vice, as he is now bound to execute process where the sheriff
is a party ; and all the provisions of this act relating to
sheriffs shall apply to coroners when the sheriff is a party.
Sheriffs and coroners may return process by mail. Their
liabilities in respect to the execution of process shall be as
now prescribed by law.
SEC. 355. No guardian appointed for an infant shall be permitted
to receive property of the infant, until he shall have given
sufficient security, approved by the judge or the court, to
account for and apply the same under the direction of the
court.
SEC. 356. Every referee appointed pursuant to this act shall have
power to administer oaths in any proceeding before him,
and shall have generally, the powers now vested in a referee
by law.
SEC. 357. If an original pleading or paper be lost or withheld by
any person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be
filed and used, instead of the original.
SEC. 358. The various undertakings required "to be given by this
act must be filed with the clerk of the court, unless the
court expressly provides for a different disposition thereof;
except that the undertakings provided for by the chapter
on the claim and delivery of personal property, shall, after
the justification of the sureties, be delivered by the sheriff
to the parties respectively, for whose benefit they are taken.
SEC. 359. The time for publication of legal notices shall be compu
ted so as to exclude the first day of publication and include
the day on which the act or event, of which notice is given,
is to happen, or which completes the full period required
for publication.
SEC. 360. rinted copies in volumes of statutes, code, or other writ
ten law, enacted by any other State or territory, or foreign
government, purporting or proved to have been published
by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admit
ted as evidence of the existing law in the courts and judi
cial tribunals of such State, territory, or government, shall
be admitted by the courts and officers of this State, on all
occasions, as presumptive evidence of such lavvs. The un
written or common law of any State or territory, or foreign
government, may be proved as facts, by parol evidence;
and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts,
may also be admitted as presumptive evidence of such law.
SEC. 361. An action against a corporation created by, or under the
laws of any other State, government, or country, may be
brought in the Superior Court of any county in which the
cause of action arose, or in which it usually did business,
or in which it has property, or in which the plaintiffs or
any one of them resides, in the following cases :
1. By a resident of this State, for any cause of action.
2. By a plaintiff, not a resident of this State, when the
cause of action shall have arisen, or the subject of the action
shall be situated, within this State.
SEC. 362. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto, and
proceedings by information in the nature of quo warranto,
are abolished ; and the remedies heretofore obtainable in
those forms may be obtained by civil actions under the pro
visions of this chapter. But any proceedings heretofore
commenced, or judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall
not be affected by such abolition.
SEC. 363. An action may be brought by the attorney-general, in
the name of the State, whenever the legislature shall so
direct, against a corporation, for the purpose of vacating or
annulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its
corporate existence, on the ground that such act or renewal
was procured upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact, by the persons incorporated, or by
some of them, or with their knowledge and consent.
SEC. 364. An action may be brought by the attorney -general, in
the name of the State, on leave granted by the Supreme
Court or a judge thereof, for the purpose of vacating the
charter or annulling the existence of a corporation, other
than municipal, whenever such corporation shall —
1. Offend against any of the provisions of the act or acts
creating, altering, or renewing such corporation; or,
2. Violate the provisions of any law, by which such cor
poration shall have forfeited its charter by abuse of its pow
ers ; or,
3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or fran
chises by failure to exercise its powers ; or,
4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act which
amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges
and franchises ; or,
5. Whenever it shall exercise a franchise or privilege not
conferred upon it by law.
And it shall be the duty of the attorney-general, when
ever he sIihII have reason to believe that any of these acts
or omissions can be established by proof, to apply for leave,
and upon leave granted to bring the action, in every case
of public interest, and also in every other case in which
satisfactory security shall be given to indemnity the State
against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby.
SEC. 365. Leave to bring the action may be granted upon the appli
cation of the attorney -general ; and the court or judge may
at discretion, direct notice of such application to be given
to the corporation or its officers, previous to granting such
leave, and may hear the corporation in opposition thereto.
SEC. 366. An action may be brought by the attorney-general in
the name of the people of this State, upon his own information, or upon the complaint of any private party, against
the parties offending in the following cases:
1. When any person shall nsurp, intrude into, or unlaw
fully hold or exercise any puhlic office, civil or military, or
any franchise within this State, or any office in a corpora
tion created by the authority of this State, or,
2. When any public officer, civil or military, shall have
done or suffered an act which, by the provisons of law,
shall make a forfeiture of his office; or
3. When any association or number of persons shall act
within this State as a corporation, without being duly in
corporated.
SEC. 367. An action may be brought by the attorney-general, in
the name of the State, for the purpose of vacating or an
nulling letters patent granted by the State, in the following
cases :
1. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters
patent were obtained by means of some fraudulent sugges
tion or concealment of a material fact, made by the person
to whom the same were issued or made, or with his consent
or knowledge; or
2. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters
patent were issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a
material fact; or
3. When he shall have reason to believe that the pat
entee, or those claiming under him, have done or omitted
an act, in violation of the terms and conditions on which
the letters patent were granted, or have by any other means
forfeited the interest acquired under the same.
SEC. 368. When an action shall be brought by the attorney -gen
eral, by virtue of this chapter, on the relation or informa
tion of a person having an interest in the question, the
name of such person shall be joined with the State as
plaintiff, and in every such case the attorney-general may
require as a condition for bringing such action, that satis
factory security shall be given to indemnify the State
against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby ; and
in every case where such security is given, the measure of
the compensation to be paid by such person or persons to
the attorney-general, shall be left to the agreement of the
parties, express or implied.
When an action shall be brought by the attorney-gen
eral, by virtue of this chapter, on the relation or information of a person having an interest in the question, the
name of such person shall be joined with the State as
plaintiff, and in every such case the attorney-general
shall require as a condition for bringing such action, that
satisfactory security shall be given to indemnify the State
against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby, and
such security shall be given before the commencement of
the action, and in every case when such security is given,
the measure of the compensation to be paid by such person
or persons to the attorney-general shall be left to the agree
ment of the parties, express or implied.
SEC. 368a. That where any such action has been commenced and is
now pending in any of the courts of this State, the indi
vidual relator or relators in such action shall give satis
factory security, as is required in the first section of this
act; and in case of failure by the relator or relators to give
such securities at or before the next term of the court in
which such action may be pending, which may be held
after the passage of this act, then such action shall be dis
missed on motion of defendant or defendants therein.
SEC. 369. Whenever such action shall be brought against a person
for usurping an office, the attorney-general, in addition to
the statement of the cause of action, may also set forth in
the complaint the name of the person rightfully entitled to
the office, with a statement of his right thereto; and in
such case, upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has
received fees or emoluments belonging to the office, and by
means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be granted
by a judge of the Supreme Court for the arrest of such de
fendant, and holding him to bail; and therenpon he shall
be arrested and held to bail, in the manner, and with the
same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities, as
in other civil actions where the defendant is subject to arrest.
SEC. 370. In every such case, judgment sball be rendered upon the
right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party
so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the de
fendant, as justiee shall require. 
SEC. 371. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the per
son so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of
each person, he shall be entitled, after talcing the oath of
office, and executing such official bond, as may be required
by law, to take upon himself the execution of the office ;
and it shall be his duty, immediately thereafter, to demand
of the defendant in the action all the books and papers in
his custody, or within his power, belonging to the office
from which he shall have been excluded.
SEC. 372. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver over
such books or papers, pursuant to the demand, he shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the same proceedings
shall be had, and with the same effect, to compel delivery
of such books and papers, as are prescribed by law.
SEC. 373. If judgment be rendered, upon the right of the person
so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may
recover, by action, the damages which he shall have sus
tained by reason of the usurpation by the defendant of the
office from which such defendant has been excluded.
SEC. 374. Where several persons claim to be entitled to the same
office or franchise, one action may be brought against all
such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such
office or franchise.
SEC. 375. hen a defendant, whether a natural person or a corpo
ration, against whom such action shall have been brought,
shall be judged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or
unlawfully holding or exercising any office, franchise, or
privilege, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant
be excluded from such office, franchise, or privilege, and
also that the plaintiff recover costs against such defendant.
The court may also, in its discretion, fine such defendant a
sum not exeeeding two thousand dollars, which fine, when
collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the State.
SEC. 375a. ll actions brought, or which may hereafter lie brought,
to try the title or right of possession to any office, State,
county or municipal, shall stand for trial at the return term
of the'summons ; and it shall be the duty of the judges
to speed the trial of such actions and to give them prece
dence over all other actions, civil or criminal: Provided,
That a copy of the complaint be served with the summons,
at least ten days before the return day thereof. And it
shall be unlawful to appropriate any public funds to the
payment of counsel fees in any such quo warranto.
SEC. 376. If it shall be adjudged that a corporation against which
an action shall have been brought pursuant to this chapter,
has, by neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate
rights, privileges, and franchises, judgment shall be ren
dered that the corporation be excluded from such corporate
rights, privileges, and franchises, and that the corporation
be dissolved.
SEC. 377. If judgment be rendered in such action against a corpo
ration, or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the
court may cause the costs therein to be collected by execu
tion against the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by
attachment or process against the directors or other officers
of such corporation.
SEC. 378. When such judgment shall be rendered against a corpo
ration, the court shall have the power to restrain the cor
poration, to appoint a receiver of its property, and to take
an account, and make a distribution thereof among its
creditors; and it shall be the duty of the attorney-general,
immediately after the rendition of such judgment, to insti
tute proceedings for that purpose.
SEC. 379. Upon the rendition of such judgment against a corpora
tion, or for the vacating or annulling nf letters patent, it
shall be the duty of the attorney-general to cause a copy of
the judgment-roll to be forthwith tiled iu the office of the
Secretary of State.
SEC. 380. Such secretary shall thereupon, if the record relates to
letters patent, make an entry in the records of the commis
sioners of the land office, of the substance and effect of such
judgment, and of the time when the record thereof was
docketed ; and the real property granted by such letters
patent may thereafter be disposed of by such commission
ers in the same maimer as if such letters patent had never
been issued.
SEC. 381. Whenever, by the provisions of law, any property, real
or personal, shall be forfeited to the State, or to any officer
for their use, an action for the recovery of such property,
alleging the grounds of the forfeiture, may be brought by
the proper officer, in any Superior Court of the State.
SEC. 383. The action of waste is abolished ; bnt any proceeding
heretofore commenced or judgment rendered, or right ac
quired, shall not be affected thereby. Wrongs heretofore
remediable by action of waste, are subjects of action as
other wrongs, in which action there may be judgment for
damages, forfeiture of the estate, of the party offending,
and eviction from the premises.
SEC. 384. The provisions of the Revised Code relating to the action
for waste shall apply to an action for waste brought under
this act, without regard to the form of the action, so far as
the same can be applied.
SEC. 385. Judgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given
in favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the
tenant in possession, when the injury to the estate in rever
sion shall be adjudged in the action to be equal to the
value of the tenant's estate or unexpired term, or to have
been done in malice.
SEC. 386. The writ of nuisance is abolished ; but any proceeding
heretofore commenced, or any judgment rendered, or right
acquired, shall not be affected thereby.
SEC. 387. Injuries heretofore remediable by writ of nuisance are
subjects of action, as other injuries; and in such action
there may be judgment for damages, or for the removal of
the nuisance, or both.
SEC. 388. he words "real property," as used in this act, are co
extensive with lands, tenements and hereditaments.
SEC. 389. The words "personal property," as used in this act, in
clude money, goods, chattels, things in action, and evi
dences of debt.
SEC. 390. The word "property," as used in this act, includes prop
erty real and personal.
SEC. 391. The rule of common law, that statutes in derogation of
that law are to be strictly construed, has no application to
this act.
SEC. 392. All statutory provisions inconsistent with this act are
repealed; but this repeal shall not revive a statute or law
which may have been repealed or abolished by the provi
sions hereby repealed. And all rights of action given or
secured by existing laws may be prosecuted in the manner
provided by this act. If a case shall rise in which an action
for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress
or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this act, the
practice heretofore in use may be adopted so far as may be
necessary to prevent a failure of justice.
SEC. 393. The present rules and practice of the courts in civil
actions, inconsistent with this act, are abrogated, except
where otherwise expressly provided; but where consistent
with this act, they shall continue in force, subject to the
power of the respective courts to relax, modify, or alter the
same.
SEC. 394. The judges of the Supreme Court of the State, shall
make from time to time, rules for the practice of that Court,
and also rules for the practice and procedure of the Supe
rior Courts, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.
SEC. 395. Every judge of a Superior Court, at least once in two
years, shall send to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court,
any suggestions which he may think fit, respecting the
practice and procedure of the courts, and respecting any
other changes in the law which may seem likely to be useful.
SEC. 396. If the judge of a Superior Court shall not be present to
hold any term of a court, at the time fixed therefor, it
shall be the duty of the sheriff, to adjourn the court from
da)r to day, until the fourth day of the term inclusive, unless
he shall be sooner informed that the judge, from any cause,
cannot hold the term ; if, by sunset on the fourth day, the
judge shall not appear to hold the term, or if the sheriff
shall be sooner advised that the judge cannot hold the
term, it shall then be the duty of the sheriff to adjourn the
court until the next term.
SEC. 397. In case the term of a court shall expire while a trial for
felony, or for any offence punishable by imprisonment in a
penitentiary, or by any greater punishment, shall be in
progress, and before judgment shall be given therein, the
judge shall continue the term as long as in his opinion il
shall be necessary for the purposes of the case.
SEC. 398. Every process, pleading, report, order, judgment and
other proceeding required to be in writing, and all copies
of records, shall be written on paper of the width of fools
cap or of legal cap ; a margin of from three-fourths of an
inch to an inch wide, shall be left on the left hand side of
each page ; if the sheet be written on both sides, it shall
be so written, that when several sheets are attached at their
tops, they may be read consecutively, without reversing
the manuscript.
SEC. 399. Judges of the Superior Courts shall have all the powers
and be subject to all the duties in respect to issuing, hear
ing and adjudicating on writs of habeas corpus, as were
given or imposed by law, on the judges of the late Superior
Courts of law of this State.
SEC. 400. The clerks of the Superior Courts, at the request of a
party thereto, and on the payment of a fee of one dollar,
shall enter on a separate docket, all suits which, at the rati
fication aforesaid, shall have been commenced and in which
final judgment has not been rendered in the late county
courts, superior courts of law, and courts of equity of their
respective counties.
SEC. 401. And every suit not so transferred within the time afore
said, shall be abated, and the clerk of the Superior Court
shall tax the costs against the parties liable, and collect the
same by the proper process.
SEC. 402. The said suits shall be proceeded in and tried, under the
existing laws and rules applicable thereto. After final
judgment shall be rendered therein, the clerk shall enter
such judgment on the execution docket required to be kept
by him, and the subsequent proceedings shall be as pro
vided for actions hereafter to be commenced.
SEC. 403. xisting judgments and decrees not dormant, may, in
like manner, be entered on the execution docket, and the
subsequent proceedings shall be as is prescribed for actions
hereafter to be commenced, as far as shall be compatible
with the previous proceedings: and no lien acquired before
the ratification aforesaid, shall be lost by any change of
process, occasioned by this act.
SEC. 404. Judgments or decrees which are dormant at the ratifica
tion aforesaid, may be revived or enforced in the manner
herein provided.
SEC. 406. The late sheriff of any county having in his hands any
scire facias execution, which has been levied on personal
property of the defendants, which is unsold, shall proceed
to sell the same, as now required by law ; he shall pay over
the proceeds, after deducting his fees, and shall also make
return of the writ to the clerk of the Superior Court of the
county, to any court of which the writ is returnable, the
proceeds to be paid by the clerk to the parties entitled
thereto.
SEC. 407. The said sheriff shall in like manner return all execu
tions in his hands which are satisfied, whether by a sale of
property or otherwise, and shall pay over any proceeds
thereof.
SEC. 408. As soon as the successors of the said late sheriffs shall
have qualified and given bonds as required by law, the said
late sheriffs shall deliver to said successors, all writs of exe
cution in their hands, which have not been satisfied, and
have not been levied on at all, or which have been levied
on property which has been sold and a residue remains
unsatisfied, or have been levied on real property which in
whole or in part remains unsold, with a return stating any
receipt of money by them, and their action under the writ.
The new sheriffs shall proceed to act under such writ as if
the same had been addressed and issued to them, and shall
make return thereof to the next term of the Superior Court
of the county to any court of which the writ was returna
ble. Any new sheriff failing to make due return of such
writs delivered to him shall forfeit and pay one hundred
dollars to any person aggrieved thereby, to be recovered on
motion to the court hefore which the writ is required to be
returned. All proceeds of executions in part only satisfied
while in the hands of any late sheriff, shall be paid by him
to the clerk of the Superior Court of the county to any
court of which the writ was returnable for the use of the
parties entitled thereto under the penalties now provided
by law in case of failure.
SEC. 409. The clerk of any Superior Court to which any execution
shall be returned as is above prescribed, shall, at the request
of any person interested therein, and on the payment of
one dollar, enter such execution on his judgment docket,
and the like process may be thereafter had thereon, as is
provided in similar cases on judgments recovered after the
ratification of this act.
SEC. 410. No judgment shall be held to have become dormant by
reason of any stay of execution thereon, in obedience to
any general or special order, issued by the General lately
commanding the military district, of which the State of
North Carolina formed a part, and the time during which
execntion was so stayed, shall not be counted in deter
mining any question respecting any question a judgment
being dormant.
SEC. 411. Any late sheriff, or other officer, having executions in
his hands, and failing to make due return thereof, and to
pay the proceeds as herein prescribed, shall in each case
forfeit and pay to any person grieved, one hundred dollars,
to be recovered on motion to the court.
SEC. 412. Nothing in this act contained shall affect or impair any
right given by an ordinance of the Convention of this
State, entitled, " An ordinance respecting the jurisdiction
of the courts of this State," ratified on the fourteenth day
of March, 1868, in the cases to which it is applicable.
SEC. 413. The Supreme Court shall have jurisdiction to review
upon appeal, any decision of the courts below, upon any
matter of law or legal inference ; but no issue of fact shall
be tried before this court ; and the court shall have power
to issue any remedial writs necessary to give it a general
supervision and control of the inferior courts. 
SEC. 414. Cases shall be taken to the Supreme Court by appeal as
provided in Chapter I, of Title XIV of this Code of Civil
Procedure.
SEC. 415. The Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction to
hear claims against the State, but its decision shall be
merely recommendatory ; no process in the nature of execntion shall issue thereon ; they shall be reported to the
next session of the General Assembly for its action. 
SEC. 416. Any person having any claim against the State, may file
his complaint in the office of the clerk of the Supreme
Court, setting forth the nature and grounds of his claim ;
he shall cause a copy of his complaint to be served on the
Governor, and therein request him to appear on behalf of
the State and answer his claim ; the copy shall be served
at least twenty days before application for relief shall be
made to the court. In case of an appearance for the State
by the Governor, or any other authorized officer, the plead
ings and trial shall be conducted in such manner as the
court shall direct. If an issue of fact shall be joined on
the pleadings, the court shall transfer it to the Superior
Court of some convenient county, for trial by a jury, as
other issues of fact are directed to be tried ; and the judge
of the court before whom the trial is had, shall certify to
the Supreme Court, at its next term, the verdict, and the
case, if any, made up and settled, as prescribed in section
three hundred and one (§ 301) of the Code of Civil Pro
cedure.
If the State shall not appear in the action by any au
thorized officer, the court may make up issues and send
them for trial as aforesaid. The Supreme Court shall, in
all cases, report the facts found, and their recommendation
thereon, with the reasons thereof, to the General Assembly
at its next term.
SEC. 1. That all civil actions shall be commenced by the issuing
a summons.
SEC. 2. The summons shall run in the name of the State, be
signed by the clerk of the Superior Court having jurisdic
tion to try the action, and under the seal of the court, and
shall be directed to the sheriff of the county in which the
defendant resides or may be found. It shall be returnable
to the regular term of the Superior Court of the county
where the plaintiffs, or one or more of them, or the defen
dants reside, and shall command the sheriff, or other proper
officer, to summons the defendant to appear at the next
ensuing term of the Superior Court and answer the com
plaint of the plaintiff, and shall be dated on the day of its
issue. The officer to whom the summons is addressed shall
note on it the day of its delivery to him, and shall execute
it at least ten days before the beginning of the term to
which it shall be returnable, and shall return it on the first
day of the term.
SEC. 3. The plaintiff shall file his complaint in-the clerk's office
on or before the third day of the term to which the action
is brought, otherwise the suit shall, on motion, be dismissed
by the court at the cost of the plaintiff.
SEC. 4. The defendant shall appear and demur, plead or answer
at the same term to which the summons shall be returna
ble, otherwise the plaintiff may have judgment by default,
as is now allowed by law.
SEC. 5. The plaintiff shall join in the demurrer or reply to the
answer at the same term to which such demurrer or answer
may be filed : and that the issues, whether of law or fact,
shall stand for trial at the next term succeeding the term
at which the pleadings are completed.
SEC. 6. That all writs of summons in civil actions now in the
hands of the sheriff or clerk, shall be returned by said offi
cers to the next term of the Superior Court, and such writs,
together with all writs of summons in civil actions hereto
fore returned in which no final judgment has been rendered,
shall be placed by the clerk on the docket of the Superior
Court at the next ensuing term, and the pleadings in such
actions shall be conducted according to the rules prescribed
in this act : Provided, That all civil actions in which issues
have been joined, shall stand for trial at spring term eigh
teen hundred and seventy-one.
SEC. 7. All executions issued, or judgments in civil actions shall
be tested as of the term next before the day on which they
issued, and shall be returnable to the term of the court next
after that from which they bear test; and all executions
now in the hands of any sheriff, issued from any Superior
Court, shall be returned to the next term of said court.
SEC. 8. The provisions of this act shall not apply to proceedings
by attachment.
SEC. 9. Nothing in this act shall operate to repeal the provisions
of the Code of Civil Procedure, which allow defendants to
be arrested and held to bail in certain cases.
SEC. 10. That this act shall be in force until otherwise provided
by law.
SEC. 1. If all the parties in interest join in the proceeding and
ask the same relief, the commencement of the suit shall he
by petition setting forth the facts entitling the petitioners
to relief, and the nature of the relief demanded.
SEC. 2. In such cases, if all persons to be affected by the decree,
or their attorney, shall have signed the petition, and they
be of full age, the clerk of the Superior Court shall have
power to hear the petitions summarily, and to decide the
same if either or any of the petitioners shall be residing out
of the State, an authority from him or them, to the attor
ney, in writing, must be filed with the clerk, before he shall
make any order or decree to prejudice their rights.
SEC. 3. If any of the petitioners be an infant, or the guardian of
an infant acting for him, no order or judgment of the clerk,
affecting the merits of the case, and capable of being pre
judicial to the infant shall be valid, unless submitted to,
and approved by the judge of the court in or out of term.
SEC. 4. When special proceedings arc had against adverse parties,
they shall be commenced as is prescribed for civil answers.
SEC. 5. very order or judgment, whether in a civil action or a
special proceeding, which is required to be made by a judge 
of the Superior Court, either in or out of term, shall be authenticated
by his signature.
SEC. 6. Both in respect to proceedings on petitions, in which all
the parties in interest join as petitioners, and to special pro
ceedings between adverse parties, the following portions of
the Code of Civil Procedure, except as modified by special
provisions in particular proceedings, shall be applicable as
far as they can be, without prejudice to right and justice,
and without inconvenience, to-wit : Titles one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven ; title eight, except sections one hun
dred and twenty -four and one hundred and twenty -five ; titles nine, ten ; title eleven, except so much of section two
hundred and fifty-eight as limits the kinds of executions to
three. In special proceedings the judgment may be, that
the parties, or any of them, shall do, or omit to do, any act
according to the right and justice of the case; and upon
such judgment the execution may issue conformable thereto,
and be enforced as provided in section two hundred and
fifty-seven of the Code of Civil Procedure. Titles twelve,
thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen and twentyone, sections four hundred and thirteen and four hundred
ond fourteen of title eighteen.
SEC. 7. No report or return made by any commissioners shall be
set aside, and sent back to them, or others for a new report,
by reason of any defect or omission not affecting the sub
stantial rights of the parties, but such defect or omission
may be amended by the court, or by the commissioners, by
permission of the court.
SEC. 1. Every widow of a deceased intestate, or of a testator
from whose will she has dissented, shall be entitled, besides
her distributive share in her husband's personal estate, to
an allowance therefrom, for the support of herself and her
family, for one year after his decease.
SEC. 2. Such allowance shall be assigned from the crop, stock,
and provisions of the deceased in his possession, at the time
of his death, if there be a sufficiency thereof in value, and
if there be a deficiency, it shall be made up by the personal
representative from the personal estate of the deceased.
SEC. 3. Except in cases in which a larger allowance is hereinafter
provided for, the value of the year's allowance shall be three
hundred dollars, and one hundred dollars in addition thereto
for every member of the family besides the widow.
SEC. 4. The family of the deceased, for the purposes of this act,
shall be deemed to be, besides the widow, every child, either
of the deceased or of the widow, and every other person to
whom the deceased or widow stood in place of a parent,
who was residing with the deceased at his death, and whose
age did not then exceed fifteen years.
SEC. 5. It shall be the duty of every administrator, oollector, or
executor, of a will, from which the widow of the testator
has dissented on application in writing, signed by the
widow of such intestate or testator, at any time within
one year after the decease of the husband, to assign to her
in the manner prescribed in this act, to the value herein
prescribed, deducting therefrom the value of any articles
consumed by the widow and her family since the death of
her husband to the time of the assignment.
SEC. 6. The value of stock, crop and provisions assigned to the
widow, as well as that of the articles consumed, shall be
ascertained by a justice of the peace and two persons quali-
-ged to act as jurors of the county in which the administra
tion was granted or the will was proved.
SEC. 7. Upon the application of the widow, the personal repre
sentative of the deceased shall apply to a justice of the
peace of the township in which the deceased resided, or of
some adjoining township, to summon two persons qualified
to act as jurors, who, having been sworn by the justice to
act impartially, shall with him ascertain the number of the
family of the deceased, according to the foregoing definition
and examine his stock, crop and provision on hand, and
assign to the widow so much thereof as will not exceed the
value limited in section ten of this act, subject to the de
duction prescribed in section twelve of this act. The com
missioners shall put the widow in possession severally of
the articles assigned to her.
SEC. 8. The commissioners shall make and sign three lists of the articles assigned to the widow, stating the quantity and
value of each, the number of the family, and the deficiency
to be paid by the personal representative. One of these
lists shall be delivered to the widow, one to the personal
representative, and one returned by the justice, within
twenty days after the assignment, to the Superior Court of
the county, and the clerk shall file and record the same
and enter judgment against the personal representative, to
be paid when the assets shall come into his hands, for any
residue found in favor of the widow.
SEC. 9. The personal representative, or the widow, or any credi
tor, legatee, or distributee of the deceased, may appeal from
the finding of the commissioners to the Superior Court of
the county, and cite the adverse party to appear before such
conrt on a certain day, within ten days from the assignment.
SEC. 10. At or before the day named, the appellant shall file with
the clerk, a copy of the assignment and a statement of his
exceptions thereto, and the issues thereby raised shall be
decided by the court as other issues are directed to be ; when
the issues shall have been decided, judgment shall be en
tered accordingly, if it may be without injustice, without
remitting the proceedings to the commissioners.
SEC. 11. Upon the settlement of the accounts of the personal rep
resentative, he shall be .credited with the articles assigned,
and the value of the deficiency assessed as aforesaid, if the
game shall have been paid, unless the allowance be im
peached for fraud or gross negligence in him.
SEC. 12. If the estate of a deceased be insolvent, or if bis personal
estate does not exceed two thousand dollars, the allowance
for the year's support of his widow and her famil y shall not,
m any case, exceed the value prescribed above; and the
allowance made to her as above prescribed, shall preclude
her from any further allowance.
SEC. 13. It shall not, however, be obligatory on a widow to have
her support assigned as above prescribed, without applying
to the personal representative of her deceased husband ; or
after an allowance shall have been made to her on her ap
plication in manner aforesaid, she may, at any time within
one year after the death of her husband, apply to the Supe
rior Court of the county in which the will was proved, or
administration granted, to have a year's support for herself
and her family assigned to her.
SEC. 14. The application shall be by summons, as is prescribed in section four of this act, in which the personal representative
of the deceased, if there be one other than the plaintiff, the
largest known creditor, or legatee, or some distributee of
the deceased, living in the county, shall be made a defen
dant, and the proceedings shall be as prescribed in this act
for special proceedings between parties.
SEC. 15. In her complaint the widow shall set forth, beside the
fact entitling her to a year's support and the value thereof,
as claimed by her, the further facts, that the estate of the
deceased is not insolvent, and that the personal estate of
which he died possessed, exceeded two thousand dollars,
and also whether or not she had an allowance made her, and
the nature and value thereof; and if no allowance has been
made, the quantities and values of the articles consumed
by her and her family since the death of her husband.
SEC. 16. If the material allegations of the complaint be found
true, the judgment shall be that she is entitled to the relief
sought ; and the court shall thereupon issue an order to the
sheriff or other proper officer of the county, commanding
him to summon a justice of the peace and two indifferent
persons qualified to act as jurors of the county, to assign
to the plaintiff from the crop, stock, and provisions of the
deceased, a sufficiency for the support of herself and her
family, for one year from the death of her husband ; and
if there be a deficiency thereof to assess such deficiency, to
be paid by the personal representative from the personal
assets of the deceased ; deducting, nevertheless, in all cases
from such allowance the articles, or the value thereof con
sumed by the widow and her family before such assign
ment, and also any sum previously assigned to her.
SEC. 17. The said commissioners shall be sworn by the justice and
shall proceed as prescribed in sections thirteen and fourteen
of this act ; except that they may assign to the widow to
a value sufficient for the support of herself and her family
according to the estate and condition of her husband and
without regard to the limitation in section ten of this act;
but the value allowed shall not in any case exceed the onehalf
of the annual net income of the deceased for the three
years next preceding his death. Their report shall bo re
turned by the sheriff, instead of by the justice.
SEC. 18. The personal representative, or any creditor, distributee
or legatee of the deceased, within twenty days after the
return of the report, may file exceptions thereto ; the plain
tiff shall be notified thereof and cited to appear before the
court on a certain day, within twenty, and not less than
ten clays, after service of the notice and answer the same ;
the case shall thereafter be proceeded in, heard, and decided
as herein provided for in special proceedings between
parties.
SEC. 19. If the report shall be confirmed, the court shall so de
clare, and execution shall issue to enforce the judgment as
in like cases.
SEC. 20. If the widow shall recover final judgment for a value
greater than that mentioned in section three (Section 10
of the original act) or for an additional value after having
received the value therein mentioned, it shall be in the dis
cretion of the court, to adjudge the whole or any part of
the costs against the widow, the personal representative of
the party excepting, as may seem just; but if the widow
shall fail to recover more than the value allowed by sec
tion three, computing as part of her recovery, any value
which may have been assigned to heron her application, to
her personal representative she shall pay the whole cost of
the proceeding. If the personal representative shall have
failed for thirty days after the widow's application, to have
her year's support assigned to her, he shall pay the whole
cost of her proceeding personally.
SEC. 21. The fees of the justice and commissioners and sheriff,
each, shall be one dollar for the assignment ; the other fees
and cost shall be as prescribed in other cases.
SEC. 22. Sections eighteen, nineteen, twenty and twenty-one of chapter one hundred and eighteen of the Revised Code, are
hereby repealed.
SEC. 23. All the widow's year's provisions heretofore laid off by
any court or proceeding, since the present Constitution of
the State was ratified, shall be and the same are hereby
validated : Provided, The same are satisfactory to the
parties.
SEC. 24. Every widow, whose year's support has not been allowed
and assigned to her by some court or proceeding since the
present Constitution was ratified, may proceed to have the
same allotted to her under the provisions of this chapter,
deducting for the time which has elapsed up to the date of
such allotment.
SEC. 1. idows shall be endowed as at common law, as in this chapter defined.
SEC. 2. Every married woman shall be entitled to one-third in
terest in value of all the lands, tenements and heredita
ments whereof her husband is or may be seized, and pos
sessed at any time during coverture ; in which third part
shall be included the dwelling house in which her husband
and family usually resided, together with the offices, out
houses, buildings and other improvements thereto belong
ing or appertaining.
SEC. 3. Dower, or right of dower, shall, in no case, be subject to
seizure on execution for the payment of any debt of the
husband during the term of the life of the wife.
SEC. 4. No alienation of the husband alone, with or without cov
enant of warranty, shall have any other or further effect
than to pass his two-thirds interests in such estate : Pro
vided, That a mortgage or trust deed by the husband to
secure the purchase money, or any part thereof, of laud
bought by him, shall, without the wife executing the deed,
be effectual to pass the whole interest according to the pro
visions of the said deed.
SEC. 5. The right to dower under this act shall pass and be effect
ual against any widow or person claiming under her upon
the wife joining with her husband in the deed of convey
ance and being privately examined as to her consent thereto
in the manner prescribed by law.
SEC. 6. Every widow may dissent from her husband's will before
the Court of Probate of the county in which such will ia
proved, at any time within six months after the probate.
The dissent may be in person, or by attorney, authorized in
writing, executed by the widow and attested by at least
one witness and duly proved and registered. The dissent,
whether in person or by attorney, shall be filed as a record
Of court* If the widow be an infant or insane, she may
dissent by her guardian,
SEC. 7. Upon such dissent, the widow shall have the same rights
and estates in the real and personal property of her hus
band as if he had died intestate.
SEC. 8. If the personal property of a decedent be sufficient to
pay his debts and charges of administration, the heir or
devisee with the widow may, by deed, agree to an assign
ment of her dower.
SEC. 9. If no such agreement be made, a widow may apply for
assignment of dower by the petition in the Superior Court
as in other cases of special proceedings.
SEC. 10. The heirs, devisees, and otlmr persons in possession of or
claiming estates in the lands, shall be parties to such pro
ceeding.
SEC. 11. f dower be adjudged, it shall be assigned by a jury of
five persons qualified to act as jurors, unless one of the
parties demand a greater number, not exceeding twelve,
who shall be summoned by the sheriff to meet on the
premises or some part thereof, and being duly sworn by the
sheriff, shall proceed to allot and set apart to the widow
her dower in said premises according to law and make a
report of their proceedings under their hand? to court,
which the sheriff shall return within five days to the clerk
of said court.
SEC. 12. The parties, or their attorneys to such proceeding, shall
be notified of the time and place of meeting of the jury
appointed to assign dower, at least fire days before the
-meeting.
SEC. 1. The Superior Courts, on petition of one or more persons
claiming real estate as tenants in common, shall appoint
three disinterested commissioners to divide and appropriate
such real estate, or so much thereof as the court may deem
best, among the several tenants in common.
SEC. 2. The commissioners shall be sworn by a justice of the
peace, or other person authorized to administer oaths, to
do justice among the tenants in common, in respect to such
partition, according to their best skill and ability.
SEC. 3. The commissioners who shall be summoned by the sheriff,
or any constable, must meet on the premises and partition
the same among the tenants in common, according to their
respective rights and interests therein, by dividing the land
into equal shares in point of value as nearly as possible,
and for this purpose they are empowered to subdivide the
more valuable tracts as they may deem best, and to charge
the more valuable dividends with such sums of money as
they may think necessary, to be paid to the dividends of
interior value, in order to make an equitable partition.
SEC. 4. The commissioners are authorized to employ the county
surveyor, or in his absence, or if he be connected with the
parties, some other surveyor, who shall make out a map of
the premises showing the quantity, courses and distances
of each share, which map shall accompany and form a part
of the report of the commissioners.
SEC. 5. The commissioners, within a reasonable time, not exceed
ing sixty days after the notification of their appointment
shall make a full and ample report of their proceedings,
under the hands of any two of them, specifying therein the
manner of executing their trust and describing particularly
the land or parcels of land divided, and the share allotted
to each tenant in severalty, with the sum or sums charged
on the more valuable dividends to be paid to those of in
ferior value. The report shall be filed in the office of the
Superior Court Clerk, who shall give the parties or their
attorneys ten days notice to file exceptions thereto, before
any motion to confirm such report is heard.
SEC. 6. Such report when confirmed, together with the degree
of confirmation, shall be enrolled and certified to the reg
ister, and registered in the office of the county where such
real estate is situated, and shall be binding among and
between the claimants, their heirs and assigns,
SEC. 7. In cases where the real estate lies in several counties, the
petition may be exhibited in the Superior Court of any one
of such counties, in which a part thereof is situated.
SEC. 8. The sums of money due from the more valuable divi
dends shall bear interest until paid.
SEC. 9. hen a minor, to whom a more valuable dividend shall
fall, is charged with the payment of any sum, the money
shall not be payable until such minor arrives at the age of
twenty-one years, but the general guardian, if there be one,
must pay such sum whenever assets shall come into his
hands, and in case the general guardian shall have assets
which he did not so apply, he shall pay out of bis own
proper estate any interest that may have accrued in con
sequence of such failure.
SEC. 10. The commissioners shall be allowed, each of them, the
sum of one dollar per diem for their services, and if, after
accepting the trust, they or any of them unreasonably delay
or neglect to execute the same, every such delinquent com
missioner shall be liable to the penalty of fifty dollars, to
be recovered by action of the petitioners.
SEC. 11. The compensation of the commissioners, the expenses in
curred for surveying, and all fees and costs of the proceed
ing, shall be paid as the court may direct.
SEC. 12. pplication for the sale of real estate held in common
may be made by petition preferred in the Superior Court
of the county where such real estate or some part thereof
lies, by one or more of the parties interested therein.
SEC. 13. henever it appears by satisfactory proof that an actual
partition of the lands cannot be made without injury to
some or all the parties interested, the court shall order a
sale of the property described in the petition, or any part
thereof, on such terms as to size of lots, place or manner of
sale, time of credit and security for payment of purchase
money, as may be most advantageous to the party con
cerned, and, on the coming in of the report of sale and con
firmation thereof, the title shall be made to the purchaser
or purchasers at such time and by such person as the court
may direct.
SEC. 14. The notice of sale, under this proceeding, shall be the
same as required by law on sales of real estate by sheriffs
on execution.
SEC. 15. The court may authorize any officer thereof, or any other
competent person, to be designated in the decree of sale, to
sell the real estate under this proceeding. Such officer, or
person, shall file his reports of sale, giving full particulars
thereof, within ten days after the sale, in the office of the
Clerk of the Superior Court, who shall give the notice
specified in section five of this act.
SEC. 16. When the lands of joint tenants, or tenants in common,
are required for public purposes, one or more of such
tenants, or their guardians for them, may file a petition
verified by oath, in the Superior Court of the county, where
the lands or any part of them lie, setting forth therein that
the lands are required for public purposes, and that their
interests would be promoted by a sale thereof; whereupon
the Court, all proper parties being before it, and the facts
alleged in the petition being ascertained to be true, shall
order a sale of such lands or so much thereof as may be
necessary, in the manner and on the terms it deems expe
dient. And the expenses, fees and costs of this proceeding
shall be paid in the discretion of the court.
SEC. 17. When a sale is made under sections thirteen and sixteen
of this act, and any party to the proceedings be an infant,
a married woman, non compos, imprisoned, or beyond the
limits of the State, it shall be the duty of the court to de
cree the share of such party, in the proceeds of sale, to be
so invested or settled that the same may be secured to such
party or his real representative.
SEC. 18. When there is dower or right of dower on any land, peti
tioned to be sold under this chapter, the woman, entitled
to dower or right of dower therein, may join in the peti
tion ; and a decree of sale, the interest of one-third of the
proceeds shall be secured and paid to her annually ; or,
in lien of such annual interest, the value of an annuity of
six per cent, on such third, during her probable life, shall
be ascertained and paid out of the proceeds to her abso
lutely.
SEC. 19. In sales of real estate under this chapter, the allowance
for services, in making sale and title, to the officer or per
son appointed to sell, shall be as follows: For sales of five
hundred dollars or less, not more than ten dollars ; for sales
of two thousand and not less than five hundred dollars, not
more than two per centum ; and, when the allowance shall
amount to forty dollars, any additional compensation shall
not exceed the rate of one per centum.
SEC. 20. henever on the death of any person, his lands in this
State, and in another State, shall descend or be devised to
several persons, who, by the law of this and the other State,
shall hold, in the lands, undivided estates as tenants in
common, or by any other undivided tenancy, and such heirs
or devisees, cannot, without suit, have partition for want of
consent, or because of inability in any of the co-tenants,
then, if such deceased person shall have been at the time
of his death, a resident of the State, or not then a resident
of any of the States, in which his lands lie, and in the last
case the most valuable part of such lands lie in this State,
such heir or devisee, or any person claiming under him,
may file a petition in the Superior Court for the county
where the deceased resided at his death, or where any part
of the land lies in this State, setting forth all the lands in
which the plaintiff has an undivided estate, without and
within the State, described by their names and boundaries,
or by the adjoining tracts, and also the estate the deceased
had in them, and the supposed value of the lands in each
State, and the share, in severalty, to which the plaintiff" and
each of his co-tenants is entitled, nnder the laws of the sev
eral States, and praying for partition to be made of all the
tract9, according to their respective interests, and the ma
terial facts set forth in the petition shall be verified by the
affidavit of the plaintiff or his guardian, or other person,
at the discretion of the court; and all persons concerned
in interest in the lands shall be made parties, according to
the practice of the Superior Courts in this State.
SEC. 21. On the hearing of the petition, the court may decree a
partition ; and shall allot in severally to each tenant his
just share of the lands, according to the value of his in
terest in the same, by the laws of the several States, in
which they are situated.
SEC. 22. The court making such decree, shall issue a commission
to three respectable freeholders in this, or any State, where
any part of the land may lie, unconnected by blood or in
terest with the parties, directing them or a majority of
them, to make partition between the co-tenants, plaintiffs
and defendants in said petition, and to assign each his re
spective share in the value, in severalty, in any tract or
tracts, in any and all the States; and before making the
allotment the commissioners shall make a valuation of all
the lands held by the co-tenants in all the said States ; and
where they cannot, without injury to the value of some
ahares, make an exact division of the lands, they shall
charge the more valuable dividends with money to be paid
to the tenants of a less valuable dividend to make equality
of partition, and they shall report their proceedings as they
may be directed, and the report shall contain a valuation
of all the estate in this and other States, and the division
among the co-tenants, according to such valuation ; and
the court may confirm such report, or, on sufficient cause
shown, may correct and alter, or set it aside and order a
new commission ; and where any sum is charged upon a
more valuable dividend, the court may direct, if the tenant
taking such a dividend, be an infant, that the sum charged
shall not be paid till a future day, and the same shall bear
interest at a rate not greater than allowed in this State :
Provided, That the tenant of the larger dividend may dis
charge himself from accruing interest by paying the whole
amount due, at any time ; and the sum due from the greater
dividend shall be a charge on the land into whose hands
soever it may come, although it may be taken without
notice; and the court shall, upon the confirmation of any
report of the commissioners, make a final decree. And
where all the parties are within the jurisdiction of this
court, the court shall, by the usual proceedings, direct and
compel the parties to execute and deliver deeds and as
surances sufficient, by the laws of this State and other
States, to give the partition full force and validity in all
the States ; and in case any of the parties are under such
disabilities that they cannot execute such assurances, or are
without the jurisdiction of the court, then the court, upon
receiving evidence from the plaintiff, that, by a law of the
other State, in which lie the parts of the lands described in
the petition to be without this State, the decree can have
effect thereon, shall direct the decree to be enrolled, and a
copy of it shall be registered in the register's office of all
the counties within this State, where any of the lands lie;
and a copy shall also be furnished to the plaintiff or other
party interested, duly certified to the end that, as to the
lands without this State, it may be carried into effect in the
State in which the said lands may be, in such manner as
said State may direct ; and on satisfactory evidence being
made to the court in this State that the decree may have
full effect by the law of such other State, the court in this
State shall by its decree declare the partition in the land
in this State to be final and conclusive; and the decree
shall be firm and irreversible, as hereinafter provided ; and
shall, on registration as aforesaid, pass to the tenants the title in severalty to the lands in this State, in the same
manner as if all the lands mentioned in the decree were
situate within this State.
SEC. 23. Where real estate may be partly in this State and partly
in another State, and the deceased person from whom it
was derived by descent or devise, was, at the time of his
death, a resident in some other State, or was a resident of
none of the States in which he held lands, and in this last
case, the lands of which he was seized in this State were of
less value than the lands of which he was seized in any
other State, the courts of the State in which such deceased
person had his residence at his death, or in which he held
lauds of greater value than those he held in this State shall
have full power and authority, under any law passed by the
Legislature of such State, substantially in accordance with
the provision herein made on this subject, to decree parti
tion of the lands in this State, together with those within
such other State, in the same manner as if the whole real
estate were within the jurisdiction of such court, and in
the same manner as in the courts in this State, are directed
and authorized to do by the preceding section, as to the
lands of deceased persons resident here at their death, or
having lands of greater value here than in any other State,
and in case of any person, having an interest in the final
decree, made as aforesaid in another State, as to lands in
this State, shall, within twelve months after the same may
be entered up in the courts in said State, produce the record
and proceedings of such Courts of Record duly certified,
to a Superior Court of any county in this State, where any
of the lands in this State lie, the court, on petition of &r
parte in such case, shall order such proceedings to be
entered of record in the court of this State, and order that
the said decree shall be of the same force aud validity as if
it had been a decree of the court in this State in which the
petition is filed, upon a petition and regular proceedings
had thereon, and the decree of the court of such other
State, and the proceedings on it by petition in the Supe
rior Court in this State confirming and giving it validity,
being eurolled in the said court of this State and registered
in all the counties where the lands lie in this State, shall
pass the lands in this State, according to the decree, and
shall vest estates in severalty therein declared, as to said
lands, in the same manner and with the same effect in law,
as if the lands in this State had been so allotted on a peti
tion for partition, according to the provisions of the former sections of this chapter.
SEC. 24. Where a copy of a decree and proceedings of a suit in
any other State shall be produced, as in the preceding sec
tion, and also when it is necessary for a Superior Court to
be certified that its decree of a partition of lands without
this State, and within the territory of another State, can
have effect therein, it shall be competent for the Judge of
the Superior Court before which the existence of a law in
such other State is to be proved, to decide whether any Act
of the Legislature of such State has been passed.
SEC. 25. On petition under this Chapter, as against feme coverts,
infants, persons non compos mentis, and against all parties,
against whom judgment shall be taken by default on pub
lication, the final decree shall be binding, in like manner,
on the same terms and to the same extent, and with the
like saving for persons under disabilities, as are provided in title four, chapter one, section twenty-seven, of the Code
of Civil Procedure.
SEC. 26. The commissioners, appointed to divide lands lying in
this and another State, shall be entitled to three dollars
per day for their services, which, with all fees, expenses and
costs, shall be paid as the court may direct.
SEC. 27. When any persons entitled as tenants in common of per
sonal property, desire to have a division of the same, they,
or either of them may file a petition in the Superior Court
for that purpose ; and the court, if it think the petitioners
entitled to relief, shall appoint three disinterested commis
sioners, who, being first duly sworn, shall proceed within
twenty days after notice of their appointment, to divide
such property as near equally as possible among the tenants
in common : Provided, That no claimant shall work on
any such lands until such division shall be made.
SEC. 28. The commissioners shall report their proceedings under
the hands of any two of them, and file their report in the
office of the Clerk of the Superior Court within five days
after the petition made, of which the clerk shall give the
parties or their attorneys ten days notice before any motion
to confirm the same is heard ; and if such report is con
firmed, a decree shall be entered accordingly and vest in
each tenant in common his share in severalty.
SEC. 29. If a division of such personal property cannot be had
without injury to some of the parties interested, and a sale
thereof be deemed necessary, the court shall order a sale
to be made by some officer of the court or other competent
person ; who shall file his report of sale in the office of the
clerk of the court within ten days after sale made, of which
the parties shall have notice as prescribed in the last section.
SEC. 30. The sale shall be made after twenty days' notice, by ad
vertisement in three or more public places in the county,
and shall be on such terms as the court may direct.
SEC. 31. Upon confirmation of the report, the court shall secure
to each tenant in common, his ratable share in severalty of
the proceeds of sale ; and the deed of the officer or person
appointed to sell, when such deed is directed to be made,
shall convey to the purchaser such title and estate in the
property as the tenants in common had.
SEC. 32. The commissioners nominated to make a division, and
the officer or person appointed to make a sale of personal
property held in common, shall receive for their services a
sum to be fixed by the court and taxed in the bill of fees
and costs, all of which shall be paid by the parties in such
manner as the court may decree.
SEC. 33. The procedure in all cases by petition, under this chap
ter, shall be the same, in all respects, as prescribed by law
in other special proceedings, except 88 modified by this act;
and any person authorized by section sixty-one of the Code
of Civil Procedure, may be made a party to any proceeding
under this chapter.
SEC. 34. Chapter eighty-two, Revised Code, and chapter thirty-
nine, acts eighteen hundred and sixty and eighteen hundred
and sixty-one, are hereby repealed.
SEC. 1. Any person wishing to build a water mill, who hath land
on only one side of a stream, shall issue a summons return
able to the Superior Court of the county in which the land
sought to be condemned, or some part of it, lies, against the
persons in possession and the owners of the land on the
opposite side of the stream, and against such others as are
required to be made defendants by the Code of Civil Pro
cedure; and the procedure shall be as is provided in other
special proceedings, except so far as the same may be modi
fied by this chapter. All persons may be made defendants
who are permitted to be by section sixty-one of the Code
of Civil Procedure.
SEC. 2. If no just cause should be shown against the building of
such mill, the court shall appoint three freeholders, one of
whom shall be chosen by the plaintiffs, another by the de
fendants, and the third by the court, or if the plaintiff's or
defendants, shall refuse or fail, or unreasonably delay, to
name a commissioner, the court shall name one in lieu of
such delinquent party ; these commissioners may be changed
from time to time by permission of the court for just cause
shown.
SEC. 3. The third commissioner shall cause the others to be no
tified of the time and place of meeting, and shall preside
at their meetings; they may, if necessary, summon and
,examine the witnesses, who shall be sworn by the presiding
commissioner; any commissioner named by or for either
of the parties who, without just cause, shall fail to attend
any meeting notified by the president, shall forfeit and pay
to the opposite party fifty dollars; and if the president
shall, in like manner, unreasonably delay to notify of a
meeting, or fail to attend one that is appointed, he shall
forfeit and pay to the plaintiffs fifty dollars, and to the
defendant a like sum.
SEC. 4. The commissioners shall be sworn by some officer quali
fied to administer an oath, to act impartially between the
parties, and to perform the duties herein imposed on them,
honestly and to the best of their ability. They shall view
the premises where the mill is proposed to be built, and
shall lay off and value a portion of the land of the plain
tiff, not to exceed one acre in area, and an equal area of
the land of the defendants opposite thereto, and report their
proceedings to the court within a reasonable time, not ex
ceeding sixty days.
SEC. 5. he report of the commissioners shall set forth:
1. The location, quantities and value of the several areas
laid off by them.
2. Whether either of them includes houses, gardens,
orchards or other immediate conveniences.
3. Whether the proposed mill will overflow another mill,
or create a nuisance in the neighborhood.
4. Any other matter upon which they shall have been
directed by the Court to report, or which they may think
necessary to the doing of full justice between the parties.
SEC. 6. If the area laid off on the land of either party take away
houses, gardens, orchards or other immediate conveniences,
or if the mill proposed will overflow another mill, or will
create a nuisance in the neighborhood, the court shall not
allow the proposed mill to be built.
SEC. 7. If the report be in favor of building the proposed mill,
and be confirmed by the court, the court may, in its discre
tion, allow either the plaintiffs or defendants to erect such
mill at the place proposed, and shall order the costs, and
the value of the opposite area, to be paid by the party to
whom such leave shall be granted ; and upon such payment,
the party to whom such leave shall be granted shall be
vested with a title in fee simple to the opposite area. Such
payment may be made into court for the use of the parties
entitled thereto.
SEC. 8. The person to whom leave shall be granted, shall within
one year begin to build such water mill, and shall finish
the same within three years ; and thereafter keep it up for
the use and ease of such as shall be customers to it; other
wise, the said land shall return to the person from whom it
was taken, or to snch other person as shall have his right,
unless the time for finishing the mill, for reasons approved
by the court, be enlarged. 
SEC. 9. If any water mill belonging to any person, not being of
age, a married woman, or of unsound mind, or imprisoned,
be let fall, burnt, or otherwise destroyed, such person and
his heirs shall have three years to rebuild and repair the
same, and any person under any disability aforesaid, shall
have three years from the removal of the disability. 
SEC. 10. Any person conceiving himself injured by the erection of
any grist mill, or mill for other useful purposes, may issue
his summons returnable before the Judge of the Superior
Court of the county where the endangered land, or any
part thereof lies, against the persons required to be made
parties defendants by the Code of Civil Procedure; in his
complaint he shall set forth in what respect and to what
extent he is injured, together with such other matters as
may be necessary to entitle him to the relief demanded.
The court shall then proceed to hear and determine all the
questions of law and issues of fact arising on the pleadings,
as in other civil actions.
SEC. 11. That when damages shall be recovered in final judgment
in such civil actions, and execution shall issue and be re
turned unsatisfied, and the plaintiff is not able to collect
the same either from the insolvency of the defendant, or
by reasons of the exemptions allowed to defendant, the
judge shall, on the facts being made to appear before him
by affidavit or other evidence, order that the dam, or por
tion of the dam, or other cause, creating the injury, shall
be abated as a nuisance, and he shall have power to make
all necessary orders to effect this purpose.
SEC. 12. That all actions heretofore begun shall conform in their
future progress, as near as may be to the provisions of this
act, and either party may have the special proceedings, for
this purpose, removed from the Superior Court office, to the
Superior Court in term, but this act shall not invalidate
any action already taken in such cases now pending.
SEC. 13. In all cases where the final judgment of the Court shall
assess the yearly damage of the plaintiff as high as twenty
dollars, nothing in this chapter contained shall be construed
to prevent the plaintiff, his heirs or assigns, from suing as
heretofore, and in such case, the final judgment aforesaid
shall be binding only for the year's damage preceding the
issuing of the summons.
SEC. 14. If the final judgment of the court shall be that the plain
tiff hath sustained no damage, he shall pay the costs of his
proceeding; but if the final judgment shall be in favor of
the plaintiff, he shall have execution against the defendant
for one year's damage, preceding the issuing of the sum
mons, and for all costs: Provided, That if the damage
adjudged does not amount to five dollars, the plaintiff shall
recover no more costs than damages. And if the defendant
do not annually pay the plaintiff, his heirs, or assigns,
before it falls due, the sum adjudged as the damages for
that year, the plaintiff may sue out execution for the
amount of the last year's damage, or any part thereof which
may remain unpaid.
SEC. 15. Each commissioner appointed under this chapter shall be
entitled to two dollars per day to be paid and taxed as the
other costs provided in this act.
SEC. 16. Sections two, three, four, five, eight, nine, ten, eleven,
twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen and sixteen, 
of chapter seventy-one,
(71) of the Kevised Code, are hereby repealed.
SEC. 17. This act shall he in force from its ratification ; but no
rights vested, and no proceeding instituted before such rati
fication shall be affected hereby.
SEC. 1. Whenever any resident of this State may desire to take
the benefit of the homestead and personal property ex
emption, as guaranteed by article ten, of the Constitution
of this State; such resident (or his agent or attorney) shall
apply to any justice of the peace of the county in which
he resides, and said justice of the peace shall appoint as
assessors, three disinterested persons qualified to act as
jurors residing in said county, who shall, on notice by order
of said justice, meet at the applicant's residence, and, after
taking the oath prescribed in section two, of this act, for
appraisers, before some officer authorized to administer an
oath, lay off and allot to the applicant a homestead with
metes and bounds, according to the applicant's direction,
not to exceed one thousand dollars in value, and make and
sign a descriptive account of the same and return it to the
office of the Register of Deeds.
SEC. 2. The said assessors shall set apart of the personal prop
erty of said applicant, to be by him selected, articles of
personalty not exceeding in value the sum of five hundred
dollars, and make aud sign a descriptive list thereof, and
return the same to the Register of Deeds.
SEC. 3. It shall be the duty of the Register of Deeds to endorse
on each of said returns the date when received for reg
istration, and to cause the same to be registered without
unnecessary delay. The said register shall receive for reg
istering the said returns, the same fees that may be allowed
him by law for other similar or equivalent services, which
fees shall be paid by said resident applicant (or his agent
or attorney) upon the reception of said returns by the
Register.
SEC. 4. If any person entitled to a homestead and personal pro
perty exemption, die without having had the same set
apart, his widow, if he leave one, then his child and children
under the age of twenty-one years, if he leave such, may
proceed to have said homestead and personal property ex
emption laid off to her, him or them, according to the pro
visions of sections seven and eight of this act.
SEC. 5. When any person entitled to a homestead and personal
property exemption, shall file his or her petition before
a justice of the peace to have the same laid off and set
apart under the provisions of sections seven, eight, nine and
ten of this act, the said justice shall make advertisement
at the court house door of the county in which the petition
is filed, notifying all creditors of said applicant, of the time
and place when and where the said petition will be heard ;
and the same shall not be heard nor any decree made in
the cause in less than six months nor more than twelve,
from the day of making advertisement as above required.
SEC. 6. Any officer or appraiser or assessor, (as the case may be,)
who shall wilfully or corruptly conspire with any judgment
debtor, or other appraiser or assessor, (as the case may be,)
to undervalue the homestead or personal property exemp
tion of such debtor, or shall assign false metes and bounds,
or make, or procure to be made, a false and fraudulent re
turn thereof, shall be liable to indictment for a misde
meanor, and shall be answerable to the judgment creditor
for all costs and damages in a civil action.
SEC. 7. An officer or appraiser who shall wilfully or corruptly
conspire with any judgment creditor, or other appraiser or
assessor, to over-value the homestead or personal property
exemption of any debtor or applicant, or shall assign false
metes and boundaries, or make, or procure to be made, false
and fraudulent return thereof, shall be liable to indictment
for a misdemeanor, and shall be answerable to the party
injured, for all costs and damages in a civil action.
SEC. 8. If the judgment creditor for whom the levy is made, or
judgment debtor or person entitled to homestead exemp
tion, shall be dissatisfied with the valuation and allotment
of the appraisers or assessors, (as the case may be,) he may,
ithin ten days thereafter, or any other judgment creditor
within six months, and before sale under execution of th e
excess, notify the clerk of the township thereof and file
with him a transcript of the return of the appraisers or
assessors, (as the case may be,) and thereupon the clerk
shall notify the other trustees of the township to meet
him, at a time specified within ten days, on the premises, to
re-assess and allot said homestead. At the time specified
the trustees shall meet on the premises, and, after having:
first taken the oath prescribed for appraisers, they shall
view and examine the homestead laid off, and make their
report as required in section twenty-two of this act.
SEC. 9. If any trustee, or any person summoned as an appraiser,
shall be related by blood or'marriage to the debtor or judg
ment creditor, or shall be a party in interest in any action
against the former, he shall be disqualified to serve in the
valuation of the homestead or personal property exemp
tion, and another person qualified to act as juror shall be
summoned and qualified in his place.
SEC. 10. When the homestead or personal property exemption is
made or re-allotted on the petition of the person entitled
thereto, the township trustees shall make their report as
required in section eight (section twenty of original act,)
to the Register of Deeds, specifying what changes, if any,
they have made in the former valuation and allotment,
who shall register the same as required in section nine, and
when said homestead and personal property exemption is
made or re-allotted, under execution by a judgment cred
itor, the township trustees shall make said return to the
Clerk of the Superior Court, who shall file the same and
make a minute thereof on the judgment roll and the exe
cution docket.
SEC. 11. If the board of trustees shall confirm the former ap
praisal or shall increase the exemption allowed the judg
ment debtor, the levy shall stand only upon the excess re
maining, and the judgment creditor shall pay all costs of
the re-allotment. If they shall reduce the amonnt allowed
the judgment debtor, the costs shall follow the execution,
and the levy shall cover the excess then remaining.
SEC. 12. Any appraisal or allotment by the trustees of a township
may be set aside, on application of any party interested,
for fraud, complicity or other irregularity. The proceed
ings shall be upon petition, as in other special proceedings,
and the applicant shall give bond to the opposing party for
costs and damages.
SEC. 13. The following fees and no other shall be charged in this
proceeding :
Each appraiser^ for laying off homestead or personal pro
perty exemption, or both, one dollar. •
Officer, for summoning and qualifying appraisers and
delivering return to clerk, one dollar.
Clerk of Superior Court, for filing return and entering
minute on execution docket, twenty-five cents.
For making transcripts for township clerk, wlu^n required
to do bo, fifty cents.
Township clerk, for summoning trustees, fifty cents.
Township clerk, for transmitting return, twenty-five
cents.
SEC. 14. ll acts or clauses of acts, in conflict with this act, or pro
viding other means for the laying off of a homestead or
personal property exemption, are hereby repealed.
SEC. 15. The following forms shall be substantially followed in
proceedings under this act:
[No. 1.]
I. appraisers' return.
I. WHEN THE HOMESTEAD 18 VALUED AT LESS THAN ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, AND PERSONAL PROPERTY ALSO APPRAISED.
The undersigned having been duly summoned, and sworn to act as
appraisers of the homestead and personal property exemptions of
A. B., of Township, County, by C. D.,
Sheriff, (or Constable, or Deputy) of said county, do hereby make
the following return: We have viewed and appraised the home
stead of the said A. B., and the dwelling and buildings thereon,
owned and occupied by said A. B. as a homestead, to be one thousand
dollars (or any less sum) and that the entire tract, bounded by the
landsof and , is therefore exempted from
sale under execution according to law. At the same time and place
we viewed and appraised at the values annexed, the following articles
of personal property selected by said A. B. [Here specify the articles
and their value, to be selected by the debtor or his agent. ] Which we
declare to be a fair valuation, and that the said articles are exempt
under said execution. We hereby certify that we are not related by
blood or marriage to the judgment debtor or the judgment creditor
in this execution, and have no interest, near or remote, in the above
exemptions.
Given under our hands and seals this .... day of , 18. ..
O. K. (£. 8.)
L. M. (£. 8.)
R. S. (L. 8.)
The above return was made and subscribed in my presence, day
and date above given.
C. D., (Sheriff or Constable.)
[No. 2.]
II. PETITION FOR HOMESTEAD BEFORE A JUSTICE OF THE PEACE
.In the matter of A. B. j
A B respectfully shows that (he, she or they, as the case maybe,) is
-or arc) entitled to a homestead exempt from execution in certain
real estate in said county, bounded and described as follows : (Here
describe the property.) The true value of which (he, she or they, as
the case may be,) believe to be one thousand dollars, includ ng the
dwelling and buildings thereon. He (she or they) further shows, that
he (she or they, as the case may be, ) is (or are) entitled to a personal
property exemption from execution, to the value of (here state the
value) consisting of the following property: (Eere specify.) He (she
or they, a* the ease may be,) therefore prays your worship to appoint
three disinterested persons qualified to act as jurors or assessors to
view the premises, allot and set apart to your petitioner his home
stead and personal property exemption, and report according to law.
[No. 3.]
III. FEHSONAL PROPERTY ALONE APPRAISED.
The undersigned having been duly summoned and sworn to act as
appraisers of the personal property of A. B., of Township,
County, and to lay off the exemption given by law thereto,
by C. D., (sheriff ar other officer,) of said county, do hereby make
and subscribe the following return :
We viewed and appraised at the values annexed the following arti
cles of personal property selected by the said A. B., to-wit:
which we declare to be a fair valuation, and that said articles are
exempt under said execution.
We hereby certify, each for himself, that we are not related by
blood or marriage, to the judgment debtor or judgment creditor in
this execution, and have no interest, near or remote, jn the above
exemptions.
Given under our hands and seals this day of 18. . .
O. K., (Z. S.)
L. M., (L. S.)
R. S., (L. S.j
The above return was made and subscribed to in my presence, day
and date above given. C. D., (Sheriff or Constable.)
[No. i.]
IV. CERTIFICATE OF QUALIFICATION TO BE ENDORSED ON RETURN
BY SHERIFF.
The within named B. F., G. H. and J. R. were summoned and
qualified according to law, as appraisers of the exemption
of the said A. B., under an execution in favor of X. Y., this
day of 18. . . . CD., (Sheriff.)
X Y....
VM.
[No. 5.]
V. MINUTE ON EXECUTION DOCKET.
A B
..
Execution issued 18 ... .
Homestead appraised and set off and return made 18 .
SEC. 1. All applications for writs of mandamus shall be made
by summons and complaint.
SEC. 2. In all applications when the plaintiff seeks to enforce
a money demand, the summons shall issue and be made
returnable as is prescribed by the second section of chap
ter seventy-six, of the laws of one thousand eight hun
dred and sixty-eight and one thousand eight hundred and
sixty-nine, entitled " An Act to suspend the Code of Civil
Procedure in certain cases," and that the subsequent plead
ings and practice in such cases shall be the same as is pre
scribed for civil actions by the third, fourth and fifth sec
tions of said act.
SEC. 3. In all applications when the plaintiff seeks other relief
than the enforcement of the payment of a money de
mand, the summons shall be made returnable before a
Judge of the Superior or Supreme Court at chambers, or
in term, at a day specified in the summons, not less than ten
days after the service of the summons and complaint upon
the defendant, at which time the court, except for good
cause shown, shall proceed to hear and determine the cause,
both as to law and fact: Provided hmoever, That in cases
arising uuder this section where issue of fact is raised by the
pleadings, it shall be the duty of the court, upon the appli
cation of either party, to continue the same till said issue
of fact can be decided by a jury of the next regular term
of the court.
SEC. 4. All complaints in applications for mandamus shall be
verified according to law.
That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act
are hereby repealed : Provided however; That this act shall
not apply to actions commenced before the ratification of
this act.
SEC. 5. This act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
