Section 1. [Construction of code.) —The rule of the common law, that
statutes m derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no application to
this code. Its provisions, and all proceedings under it, shall be liberally con
strued, with a view to promote its object and assist the parties in obtaining jus
tice. i.R. S. 894. G. 8. 524.]
TITLE I.— Form of Civil Actions.
Sec. 2. TOne form of action.] —The distinction between actions at law
and Buits in equity, and the form of all such actions and suits heretofore existing
are abolished ; and in their place there shall be hereafter but one form of action,
which shall be called a civil action. [Amended 1867, 71.]
Sec. 8. [Parties—Designation.] —In Buch action, the party complaining
shall be known as the plaintiff and the adverse party as the defendant.
SEC. 4. [Issues—Feigned—Not plead.]— There can be no feigned issues ;
but a question of fact not put in issue by the pleadings may be tried by a jury,
upon an order for the trial, stating distinctly and plainly, the question of fact to
be tried ; and such order is the only authority necessary for a trial.
TITLE II. —Time of Commencing Civil Actions.
Sec. 5. [Limitation.] —Civil actions can only be commenced within the
tune prescribed m this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued.
Sec. 6. TRecovery of real property—Mortgages.]—An action for the
recovery of the title or possession of lands, tenements or hereditaments, can only
be brought within ten years after the cause of such action shall have accrued.
This section shall be construed to apply also to mortgages. [1869 § 1, 67. Took
effect July 1, 1869.]
SEC. 7. [Same—Persons under disability.]—Any person entitled to
commence any action for the recovery of the title or possession of any .lands, ten
ements or hereditaments, who may be under any legal disability when the cause
of action accrues, may bring such action within ten years after the disability is
removed, and at no time thereafter. [R. S. 895. Amended to take effect Sept. 1,
1873. G. S. 525.]
Sec. 8. [Forcible entry and detainer.]—An action for the forcible entry
and detainer, or forcible detainer only, of real property can only be brought within
one year after the cause of such action shall have accrued.
Sec. 9. [Other civil actions—Limitations.]—Civil actions, other than
for the recovery of real property, can only be brought within the following periods,
after the cause of action shall have accrued :
Sec. 10. [Written instrument—Foreign judgment.]—Within five
years, an action upon a specialty, or any agreement, contract, or promise in writ
ing, or foreign judgment.
Sec. 11. [Parol contract.] —Within four years, an action upon a con
tract, not in writing, expressed or implied ; an action upon a liability created by
statute, other than a forfeiture or penalty.
SEC. 12. [Trespass to realty — Personalty — Replevin— Torts —
Fraud.] —Within four years, an action for trespass upon real property ; an action
for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property, including actions for the spe
cific recovery of personal property ; an action for an injury to the rights of the
plaintiff, not arising on contract, and not hereinafter enumerated ; an action for
relief on the ground of fraud, but the cause of action in such case shall not
deemed to have accrued until the discovery of the fraud.
Sec. 18. [Injury to character— Assault— Malicious prosecution—
False imprisonment—Penalty.]—Within one year an action for libel, slan
der, assault and battery, malicious prosecution or false imprisonment ; an action
upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, but where the statute giving such action
Srescribes a different limitation, the action may be brought within the period so
mited.
Sec. 14. [Official bond — Undertaking.] — An action upon the official
bond or undertaking of an executor, administrator, guardian, sheriff, or any other
officer, or upon the bond or undertaking given in attachment, injunction, or in
any case whatever required by statute, can only be brought within ten years.
Sec. 15. [Contract—Failure of consideration.]—Actions brought for
damages growing out of the failure, or want of consideration of contracts, express
or implied, or for the recovery of money paid upon contracts, express or implied,
the consideration of which has wholly or in part failed, shall be brought within
four years.
Sec. 16. [Other relief.] —An action for relief not hereinbefore provided for,
can only be brought within four years after the cause of action shall have accrued.
Sec. 17. [Legal disabilities—Action in rem.)— If a person entitled to
bring any action mentioned in this title, except for a penalty or forfeiture, be, at
the time the cause of action accrued, within the age of twenty-one years, a mar
ried woman, insane, or imprisoned, every such person shall be entitled to bring
such action within the respective times limited by this title after such disability
shall be removed. The absence from the state, death, or other disability of a
non-resident, save the cases mentioned in this section, shall not operate to extend
the period within which actions in rem shall be commenced by and against such
non-resident, or his representatives.
Sec. 18. [Actions barred by laws of other states.]— All actions, or
causes of action, which are or have oeen barred by the laws of this state, or any
state or territory of the United States, shall be deemed barred under the laws of
this state.
Sec. 19. [Action when commenced.]—An action shall be deemed com
menced, within the meaning ot this title, as to the defendant, at the date of the
summons which is served on him ; where Bervice by publication is proper, the ac
tion shall be deemed commenced at the date of the first publication, which publi
cation shall be regularly made.
Sec. 20. [Defendant—Out of the state—Concealed.]—If, when a
cause of action accrues against a person, he be out of the state, or shall have ab
sconded or concealed himself, the period limited for the commencement of the
action shall not begin to run until he come into the state, or while he is absconded
or concealed ; and if, after the cause of the action accrues he depart from the
state, or abscond or conceal himself, the time of his absence or concealment shall
not be computed as any part of the period within which the action must be
brought.
Sec. 21. [Action barred by laws of other state.]—When a cause of
action has been fully barred by the laws of any state or country where the defendant
has previously resided, such bar shall be the same defense in this state as though
it had arisen under the provisions of this title.
Sec. 22. [Part payment— New promise—Acknowledgment.]— In
any cause founded on contract, when any part of the principal or interest shall have
been paid, or an acknowledgment of an existing liability, debt or claim, or any
promise to pay the same, shall have been made in writing, an action may be
brought in such case within the period prescribed for the same, after such pay
ment, acknowledgment or promise.
SEC. 28. [Parties— Name—Initials—Contractions.]—In all actions
upon bills of exchange or promissory notes, or other written instruments, when
ever any of the parties thereto are designated by the initial letter or letters, or
some contraction of the christian or first name or names, it shall be sufficient to
designate such person by the name, initial letter or letters, or contraction of the
first name or names, instead of stating the christian or first name or names in
fuU.
Sec. 24. [Associations—Firms, how named,]—Any company or asso
ciation of persons formed for the purpose of carrying on any trade or business, or
for the purpose of holding any species of property in this state, and not incorpor
ated, may sue and be sued by such usual name as such company, partnership, or
association may have assumed to itself or be known by, and it shall not be neces
sary in such case to set forth in the process or pleading, or to prove at the trial,
the names of the persons composing such company.
SEC. 25. [Same— Process—Service.]— Process against any such company
or firm shall be served by a copy left at their usual place of doing business within
the county, with one of the members of such company or firm, or with the clerk
or general agent thereof, and executions issued on any judgments rendered in such
proceedings shall be levied only on partnership property.
Sec. 26. [Same—Security for costs."1 —In cases where a company shall
sue in ite partnership name, such company shall procure the writ to be endorsed
by a responsible surety, resident ot the county, for costs, or otherwise give security
for costs.
Sec. 27. [Same— Individual property, how subjected.]—If the plain
tiff, in any judgment so rendered against any company or partnership, shall seek
to charge the individual property of the persons composing such company or firm,
it shall be lawful for him to file a bill in chancery against the several members
thereof, setting forth his judgment and the insufficiency of the partnership propty
to satisfy the same, and to have a decree for the debt, and an award of execution
against all such persons, or any of them, as may appear to have been members
of such company, association or firm.
Sec. 28. [Repealed. Gen. Stat. 713.]
TITLE III. —Parties to Civil Actions.
Sec. 29. [Action prosecuted in name of real party in interest.]—
Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except
as otherwise provided m section thirty-two.
Sec. 80. [Action by assignee.] —The assignee of a thing in action may
maintain an action thereon, in has own name and behalf, without the name of the
assignor.
Sec. 81. [Assignment—Effect on equities.]—In the case of an assign
ment of a thing in action, the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to
any set-off or other defense now allowed ; but this section shall not apply to nego
tiable bonds, promissory notes, or bills of exchange, transferred in good faith, and
upon good consideration, before due.
Sec. 82. [Beneficiaries — Officers — Official bonds — Authorized
persons.] —An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of an express trust,
a person with whom, or in whose name a contract is made for the benefit of an
other, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may bring an action without
joining with him the person for whose benefit it is prosecuted. Officers may sue
and be sued in such name as is authorized by law, and official bonds may be sued
upon in the same way.
Secs. 88-34. [Repealed. Gen. Stat. 713.]
Sec. 85. [Husband and wife joined.] —If a husband and wife be sued
together, the wife may defend for her own right ; and, if the husband neglect to
defend, she may defend for his right also.
Sec. 86. [Infant—Action for.]— The action of an infant must be brought
by his guardian or next friend. When the action is brought by his next friend,
the court has power to dismiss it, if it is not for the benefit of the infant ; or, to
substitute the guardian of the infant, or any person, as the next friend.
Sec. 87. [Same— Liability for costs.]— The guardian, or the next friend,
isliable for the costs of the action brought by him, and, when he is insolvent, the
court may requiie security for them. Either may be a witness in an action brought
by him.
Sec. 88. [Infant—Action against.]— The defense of an infant must be
by a guardian for the suit, who may be appointed by the court in which the action
is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or by a probate judge. The appointment
cannot be made until after service of the summons in the action, as directed by
this code.
Sec. 89. [Same—Guardian ad litem. 1—The appointment may be made
upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply
within twenty days after the return of the summons. If he be under the age of
fourteen, or neglect so to apply, the appointment may be made upon the applica
tion of any friend of the infant, or on that of the plaintiff in the action.
Sec. 40. [Plaintiff—Joinder.] —All persons having an interest in the sub
ject of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as
plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this title.
Sec. 41. [Defendants, who made.] —Any person may be made a defend
ant who has or claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or
who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the ques
tion involved therein.
Sec. 42. [Parties united in interest joined.]—Of the parties to the
action, those who are united in interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defend
ants ; but if the consent of one who should have been joined as plaintiff cannot
be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason being stated in the petition.
Sec. 48. [Same—Common interest—Numerous parties.]— When the
question is one of common or general interest of many persons, or when the par
ties are very numerous, and it may be impracticable to bring them all before the
court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all.
Sec. 44. [Parties severally liable.]—Persons severally liable upon the
same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and
promissory notes, may, all or any of them, be included in the same action, at the
option of the plaintiff.
Seo. 45. [Action not to abate by disability.]—An action does not
abate by the death, marriage or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of
any interest therein, during its pendency, if the cause of action survive or con
tinue. In the case of the marriage of a female party, the fact being suggested on
the record, the husband may be made a party with his wife ; and, in the case of
the death or other disability of a party, the court may allow the action to continue
by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other
transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the original party,
or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made, to be substituted
in the action.
Sec. 46. [Parties necessary to determine controversy.]—The court
may determine any controversy between parties before it, when it can be done
without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights ; but when a
determination of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other
parties, the court must order them to be brought in.
Sec. 47. [Same—Parties having interest in property.]—When, in
an action for the recovery of real or personal property, any person having an
interest in the property applies to be made a party, the court may order it to be
done.
SEC. 48. [Preservation of property—Interpleader.] —Upon the affi
davit of a defendant before answer in an action upon contract, or for the recovery
of personal property, that some third party, without collusion with him, has or
makes a claim to the subject of the action, and that he is ready to pay or dispose of
the same, as the court may direct, the court may make an order for the safekeep
ing, or for the payment, or deposit in court, or delivery of the subject of the action,
to such person as it may direct, and an orde>* requiring such third party to ap
pear in a reasonable time and maintain or relinquish his claim against the de
fendant. If such third party, being served with a copy of the order by the sher
iff, or such other person as the court may direct, fail to appear, the court may de
clare him barred of all claim in respect to the subject of the action, against the de
fendant therein. If such third party appear, he shall be allowed to make himself
defendant in the action, in lieu of the original defendant, who shall be discharged
from all liability to either of the other parties in respect to the subject of the ac
tion, upon his compliance with the order of the court for the payment, deposit or
delivery thereof.
Sec. 49. [Same—Sheriff] —The provisions of the last section shall be ap
plicable to an action brought against a sheriff, or other officer, for the recovery of
personal property, taken by him under execution, or for the proceeds of such
property so taken and sold by him. And the defendant in such action shall be
entitled to the benefit of those provisions against the party in whose favor the ex
ecution issued, upon exhibiting to the court the process under which he acted,
with hiB affidavit that the property, for the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the
action is brought, was taken under such process.
Sec. 50. [Interested party substituted.] —In an action against a sher
iff, or other officer, for the recovery of property taken under an execution, and re
plevied by the plaintiff in such action, the court may, upon application of the de
fendant, and of the party in whose favor the execution issued, permit the latter to
be substituted as the defendant, security for the costs being given.
Sec. 50 a. [Interveners.] —Any person who has or claims an interest in the
matter in litigation, in the success of either of the parties to an action, or against
both, in any action pending or to be brought in any of the courts of the state of
Nebraska, may become a party to an action between any other persons or corpor
ations, either by joining the plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the petition, or
by uniting with the defendants in resisting the claim of the plaintiff, or by de
manding anything adversely to both the plaintiff and defendant, either before or
after issue has joined in the action, and before the trial commences. [1887, chap.
100.3
Sec. 50 b. [Trial—Judgment—Costs.]—The court shall determine upon
the intervention at the same time that the action is decided, and if the claim of the
intervenor is not sustained he shall pay all costs of the intervention. [Id.]
Sec. 50 c. [Intervention—Pleadings.] —The intervention shall be by pe
tition, which must set forth the facts on which the intervention rests, and all the
pleadings therein shall be governed by the same rules as obtain in regard to other
pleadings provided for by the code. But if such petition is filed during term the
court shall direct the time in which answers thereto shall be filed. [Id.] .
TITLE IV.—The County in which Actions are to be Brought.
Sec. 51. [Realty—Recovery—Partition—Sale.] —Actions for the fol
lowing causes must be brought in the county in which the subject of the action is
situated, except as provided in section fifty-two. First. For the recovery of real
property or of an estate or interest therein. Second. For the partition of real
property. Third. For the sale of real property under a mortgage, lien or other
incumbrance or charge.
Sec. 52. [Same—In several counties.]—If the real property, the subject
of the action, be an entire tract, and situated in two or more counties, or if it con
sists of separate tracts situated in two or more counties, the action may be brought
in any county in which any tract or part thereof is situated, unless it be an action
to recover the possession thereof. And if the property be an entire tract, situated
in two or more counties, an action to recover the possession thereof may be brought
in either of such counties ; but if it consists of separate tracts in different coun
ties, the possession of such tracts must be recovered by separate actions brought
in the counties where they are situated.
Seo. 58. [Same—Specific performance.]—An action to compel the spe
cific performance of a contract of sale of real estate, may be brought in the county
where the defendants, or any of them, reside.
Seo. 64. [Fines—Penalties—Public officers—Official bonds]—Ac
tions for the following causes must be brought in the county where the cause, or
some part thereof, arose : First. An action for the recovery of a fine, forfeiture
or penalty, imposed by a statute ; except that, when it is imposed for an offense
committed on a river, or other stream of water, or road which is the boundary of
two or more counties, the action may be brought in any county bordering on Buch
river, water-course or road, and opposite to the place where the offense was com
mitted. Second. An action against a public officer, for an act done by him in vir
tue or under color of his office, or for a neglect of his official duty. Third. An
action on the official bond or undertaking of a public officer.
Seo. 55. [Against corporations.] —An action other than one of those
mentioned in the firBt three sections of this title, against a corporation created by
the laws of this state, may be brought in the county in which it is situated, or
has its principal office or place of business ; but if such corporation be an in
surance company, the action may be brought in the county where the cause of
action, or some part thereof, arose.
Seo. 56. [Railroad—Stage companies.]—An action against a railroad
company, or an owner of a line of mail stages, or other coaches, for an injury to
person or property upon the road or line, or upon a liability as a carrier, may be
brought in any county through or into which the said road or line passes.
Seo. 57. [Turnpike companies.]—An action other than one of those men
tioned in the first three sections of this title, against a turnpike road company,
may be brought in any county in which any part of the road lies.
Seo. 58. [Corporations—Exceptions.] —The provisions of this title shall
not apply in the case of any corporation created by a law of this state, whose char
ter prescribes a place where alone a suit against such corporation may be brought.
Seo. 59. [Non-residents.] —An action other than one of those mentioned
in the first three sections of this title, against a non-resident of this state or a
foreign corporation, may be brought in any county in which there may be prop->
e-ty of, or debts owing to, said defendant, or where said defendant may be found ;
but if said defendant be a foreign insurance company, the action may be brought
in any county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose.
Seo. 60. [Other actions.] —Every other action must be brought in the coun
ty in which the defendant, or some of the defendants, resides, or may be summoned.
Seo. 61. [Change of venue.] —In all cases in which it shall be made to ap
pear to the court that a fair and impartial trial cannot be had in the county where
the suit is pending, or when the judge is interested or has been of counsel in the
case or subject matter thereof, or is related to either of the parties, or is other
wise disqualified to sit, the court may on application of either party change the
place of trial to some adjoining county, wherein such impartial trial can be had ;
but if the objection be against all the counties of the district, then to the nearest
county in the adjoining district. [R. S. 402. Amended, G. S. 582.]
Sec. 61 a. [Same—Proceedings. —Sep. 8. When an order is made trans-
ferring a cause for trial, as provided in the preceding section, the clerk of the court
must transmit the pleadings and papers therein to the clerk of the court to -which
it is transferred. The costB and fees thereof, and of filing the papers anew, must
be paid,by the party at whose instance the order was made. The court to which
an action is transferred shall have and exercise over the same the like jurisdiction
as if it had been originally commenced therein. [G. 8. 712.]
Sec. 61 b. [Same— Final judgment.]—Sec. 4. When an action affecting
the title or possession of real estate has been brought in or transferred to any court
of a county, other than the county in which the real estate or some portion of it
is situated, the clerk of such court must, after final judgment therein certify such
judgment under his seal of office, and transmit the same to the corresponding
court of the county in which the real estate affected by the action is situated.
The clerk receiving such copy must file, docket, and record the judgment in the
records of the court, briefly designating it as a judgment transferred from
court (naming the proper court). [G. S. 712.]
TITLE V. —Manner of Commencing Actions.
Sec. 62. [How—Petition—Summong.]—A civil action must be com
menced by filing in the office of the clerk, of the proper court, a petition, and
causing a summons to be issued thereon. [R. S. 408. 1869, 68. 1871, 110. G. B.
538.]
Sec. 68. [Precipe.] —The plaintiff shall also file with the clerk of the court,
a precipe, stating the names of the parties to the action, and demanding that a
summons issue thereon.
Sec. 64. [Summons—Requisites.]—The summons shall be issued by the
clerk, shall be under the seal of the court from which the same shall issue, and
shall be signed by the clerk. Its style shall be, " The State of Nebraska,
county," and it shall be dated the davit is issued. It shall be directed to the
sheriff of the county, and command him to notify the defendant or defendants
named therein, that he or they have been sued, and must answer the petition
filed by the plaintiff, giving his name, at the time stated therein, or the petition
will be taken as true, and judgment rendered accordingly. And where the action
is for the recovery of money only, there shall be endorsed on the writ the amount
to be furnished in the precipe, for which, with interest, judgment will be taken, if
the defendant fail to answer. If the defendant fail to appear, judgment shall not
be rendered for a larger amount and the costs.
Seo. 65. [Summons issued to several counties.]—Where the action
is rightly brought in any county, according to the provisions of title four, a sum
mons shall be issued to any other county, against any one or more of the defend
ants, at the plaintiff's request.
Seo. 66. [Summons—When returnable.] —Whenever the time for bring
ing parties into court is not fixed by statute, the summons shall be returnable on
the second Monday after the day of its date, but when issued to any other county
than the one in which the action is brought, it may be made returnable at the option
of the party ha ving it issued, on the third or fourth Monday after its date. It shall
state the day of the month on which it is returnable.
Sec. 67. [Alias summons.]—When a writ is returned " not summoned,"
other writs may be issued, until the defendant or defendants shall be summoned ;
and when defendants reside in different counties, writs may issued to such counties
at the same time.
SERVICE OP SUMMONS—ACTUAL SEBVICE.
Sec. 68. [By whom.]—The summons shall be served by the officer to whom it
is directed, who shall indorse on the original writ the time and manner of service.
It may also be served by any person not a party to the action, appointed by the
officer to whom it is directed. The authority of such person shall be indorsed on
the writ. When the writ is served by a person appointed by the officer to whom
it is directed, or when the service is made out of this state, the return shall be veri
fied by oath or affirmation.
Sec. 69. [How served] —The service Bhall be by delivering a copy of the
summons to the defendant personally, or by leaving one at his usual place of
residence, at any time before the return day.
Sec. 70. [Return.] —In all cases the return must state the time and manner
of service.
Sec. 71. [Return, when.]—The officer to whom the summons is directed
must return the same at the time therein stated.
Sec. 72. [Acknowledgment— Voluntary appearance.] —An ac
knowledgment on the back of the summons, or the voluntary appearance of a dadefendant
is equivalent to a service.
Sec. 78. [Corporations. ]—A summons against a corporation may be served
upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of directors or trustees, or other
chief officer ; or, if its chief officer is not found in the county, upon its cashier,
treasurer, secretary, clerk, or managing agent ; or, if none of the aforesaid offi
cers can be found, by a copy left at the office, or last usual place of business of
such corporation.
Sec. 74. [Same—Insurance companies.] —When the defendant is an
incorporated insurance company, and the action is brought in a county, in which
there is an agency thereof, the Bervice may be upon the chief officer of such agency.
Sec. 75. [Foreign corporations.] —When the defendant is a foreign cor
poration, having a managing agent in this state, the service may be upon such agent.
Sec. 76. [Infants.] —When the defendant is a minor under the age of four
teen years, the service must be upon him, and upon his guardian or father ; or, if
neither of these can be found, then upon his mother, or the person having the care
or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither of these can be found,
or if the minor be more than fourteen years of age, service on him alone shall be
sufficient. The manner of service may be the same as in the case of adults.
CONSTRUCTIVE SERVICE.
Sec. 77. [By publication, when.]—Service may be made by publication
in either of the following cases: First. In actions brought under the fifty-first,
fifty-second, and fifty-third sections of this code, where any or all of the defend-
ants reside out of the state. Second. In actions brought to establish or set aside a
will, where any or all the defendants reside out of the state. Third. In actions
brought against a non-resident of this state, or a foreign corporation, having in this
state property or debts owing to them, sought to be taken by any of the provisional
remedies, or to be appropriated in any way. Fourth. In actions which relate to, or
the subject of which is, real or personal property in this state where any defend
ant has or claims a lien or interest, actual or contingent therein, or the relief
demanded consists wholly or partially in excluding him from any interest therein,
and such defendant is a non-resident of the state or a foreign corporation. Fifth.
In all actions where the defendant being a resident of the state has departed there
from, or from the county of his residence, with intent to delay or defraud his cred
itors or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein
with the like intent.
Sec. 78. [Affidavit.] —Before service can be made by publication, an affi
davit must be filed, that service of a summons cannot be made within this state,
on the defendant or defendants to be served by publication, and that the case is
one of those mentioned in the preceding section. When such affidavit is filed the
party may proceed to make service by publication.
dec. 79. [Publication, how made.]—The publication must be made
four consecutive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county where the peti
tion is filed, if there be any printed in such county ; and if there be not, then in
some newspaper printed in the state, of general circulation in that county. It
must contain a summary statement of the object and prayer of the petition, men
tion the court wherein it is filed, and notify the person or persons thus to be
served, when they are required to answer.
8eo. 80. [Same—Proof.] —Service by publication shall be deemed complete
when it shall have been made in the manner and for the time prescribed in the
preceding section ; and such service shall be proved by the affidavit of the printer,
or his foreman or principal clerk, or other person knowing the same.
SEC. 81. [Personal service out of state.] —In all cases where service
may be made by publication, and in all other cases where the defendants are
non-residents, and the cause of action arose in the state, suit may be brought in
the county where the cause of action arose, and personal service of the summons
may be made out of the state by the Bheriff or some person appointed by him for
that purpose. In all cases where service of a summons is made on a person with
out the state, proof of such service must be made by affidavit, stating the time
and manner of service, and such service shall be made in the same manner as
summonses are served on parties residing within the state.
Sec. 82. [Judgment on constructive service, how opened.]—A
party against whom a judgment or order has been rendered without other service
than by publication in a newspaper, may, at any time within five years after the
date of the judgment or order, have the same opened and be let in to defend;
before the judgment or order shall be opened, the applicant shall give notice to
the adverse party of his intention to make such an application, and shall file a
full answer to the petition, pay all costs, if the court require them to be paid, and
make it appear to the satisfaction of the court, by affidavit, that during the pend-
ency of the action be bad no actual notice tbereof in time to appear in court and
make bis defense ; but the title to any property, tbe subject o! tbe judgment or
order sought to be opened, which by it, or in consequence of it, shall have passed
to a purchaser in good faith, shall not be affected by any proceedings under this section, nor Bhall they affect the title of any property sold before judgment under
an attachment. The adverse party, on the hearing of an application to open a
judgment or order, as provided by this section, shall be allowed to present counter
affidavits, to Bhow that during the pendency of the action the applicant had no
tice thereof in time to appear in court and make his defense.
SEC. 88. [Unknown heirs.]— In actions where it shall be necessary to make
the heirs or devisees of any deceased person defendants, and it shall appear by the
affidavit of the plaintiff annexed to his petition, that the names of such heirs or
devisees, or any of them, and their residences are unknown to the plaintiff, proceed
ings may be had against such unknown heirs or devisees, without naming them,
and the court shall make such order respecting service as may be deemed proper ; if
service by publication be ordered, the publication shall not be less than four weeks.
Sec. 84. [Defendants not all served—Proceedings.]— Where the
action is against two or more defendants, and one or more shall have been served,
but not all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows : First. If the action be
against defendants jointly indebted upon contract, he may proceed against the
defendant served, unless the court otherwise direct. Second. If the action be
against defendants severally liable, be may, without prejudice to his rights
against those not served, proceed against the defendants served in the same man
ner as if they were the only defendants.
SEC. 85. [Lis pendens—Notice — Record — Cancellation.] — When
the summons has been served, or publication made, the action is pending, so as
to charge third persons with notice of pendency, and while pending, no interest
can be acquired by third persons in the subject matter thereof, as against the
plaintiff's title ; Provided, however. That in all actions brought to effect the title to
real property, the plaintiff may either at the time of filing his petition or after
wards, file, or in case any defendant sets up an affirmative cause of action, and
demands relief which shall affect the title to real estate, may at the time of filing
such answer, or any time afterwards, file, with the clerk or register of deeds of
each county in which the said real estate thus to be affected, or any part thereof,
may be situated, a notice of the pendency of such action, containing the names
of the parties, the object of the action, and a description of the property in such
county sought to be affected thereby. If tbe action be for a foreclosure of a
mortgage, such notice must contain the date of the mortgage, the parties thereto,
and the time and place of recording the same. The clerk or register of deeds of
such county shall record notice thus filed and enter the same upon tbe numerical
index of all lands, any part of which is included in tbe description in said notice,
for which he shall be entitled to receive tbe sum of fifty (50) cents, to be paid by
the person tiling such notice, and which shall be taxed as a partol the costs in said
action. From the time of filing such notice shall the pendency of such action be
constructive notice to any purchaser or incumbrancer to be affected thereby,
and every person whose couveyance or incumbrance is subsequently executed
or subsequently recorded shall be deemed to be a subsequent purchaser or in
cumbrancer and shall be bound by all proceedings taken in said action after the
filing of such notice to tbe same extent as if he were made a party to the action.
The court in which said action was commenced may at any time after the action
shall be settled, discontinued or abated on an application of any person aggrieved
and on good cause shown, and on such notice as the court may determine, order
said notice to be cancelled by the clerk or register of deeds of any county in which
said notice may have been filed or recorded. Such cancellation shall be made by
an indorsement to that effect on the margin of the record, which shall refer to the
order directing the same, for which the clerk or recorder shall be entitled to a fee
of twenty-five (26) cents. [Amended 1887, chap. 92. Took effect July 1, 1887.]
Sec. 86. [Same—Real property.]—When any part of the real property,
the subject matter of an action, is situated in any other county or counties than
the one in which the action is brought, a certified copy of the judgment in such
action must be recorded in the clerk's office of such other county or counties, be
fore it shall operate therein as a notice, so as to charge third persons, as provided
in the preceding section. It shall operate as such notice, without record, in the
county where it is rendered ; but this section shall not apply to actions or pro
ceedings under any statute now in force, which does not require such record.
Sec. 86 a. [Service on real estate agent of non-resident. 1 —Sec. 1.
That it shall be lawful for any person, or corporation, owning or claiming any
interest in, or lien' upon any real estate lying within this state, to make and file
in the office of the county clerk of the county in which such real estate is situated
an appointment, in writing, of some person, who shall be a resident of the county
in which said lands lie, upon whom process may be sued [served,] in any suit,
action or proceeding, concerning or affecting such real estate, to which such owner
or claimant shall be made a party. Such appointment shall be acknowledged in
the manner provided by law for the acknowledgment of deeds. From and after
the filing of such appomtment as herein provided, service of any writ, summons,
order or notice, in any suit, action or proceeding concerning or affecting such real
estate, shall be made upon the person bo appointed and designate [d] in such
manner as may be provided by law for the service of process upon persons found
in this state, and shall be held and taken to be a valid and effectual service upon
such owner or claimant. A copy of such appointment, or of the record thereof,
duly certified by the said clerk, shall be deemed sufficient evidence thereof. And
no service made by publication shall be valid in respect to any such owner or
claimant, who shall have filed an appointment under the provisions of this act ;
Provided, That such appointment may be at any time revoked by such owner or
claimant, but such revocation shall be in writing, duly acknowledged and filed, and
recorded in the office of the county clerk in which the appointment shall have been
filed and recorded, but such revocation shall not affect any suit or proceedings com
menced before the same shall have been recorded ; And provided further, That this
act shall in no wise affect any action or proceeding which shall have been com
menced before the passage hereof, in which service of process shall have been made
in accordance with the law in force at the time of its commencement. [1877 § 1, 17.1
SEC. 86 b. [Record.]—Sec. 2. That the county clerk of each county shall
keep a book in which he shall record such appointments as shall be filed under
the provisions of this act and any revocation thereof, and shall be entitled to de
mand and receive therefor, a fee of seventy-five cents, and ten cents for each folio
of one hundred words contained therein. [Id. § 2.]
TITLE VI.—Joinder in Actions.
Sec. 87. [Whatcanses joinable.]—The plaintiff may unite several causes
of action in the same petition, whether they be such as have heretofore been de
nominated legal, or equitable, or both, when they are included in either of the fol
lowing classes : First. The same transaction or transactions connected with the
same subject of action. Second. Contracts, express or implied. Third. Injuries,
with or without force, to person and property, or either. Fourth. Injuries to
character. Fifth. Claims to recover the possession of personal property, with or
without damages for the withholding thereof. Sixth. Claims to recover real prop-
erty, with or without damages for the withholding thereof, and the rents and
rofits of the same. Seventh. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or
y operation of law. [Amended 1867, 71.]
Sec. 88. [Same—Parties—Place of trial.] —The causes of action so
united, must affect all the parties to the action, and not require different places of
trial
TITLE VII.—Pleadings in Civil Actions.
PLEADINGS IN GENEKAL.
Sec. 89. [Pleadings defined.] —The pleadings are the written statements,
by the parties, of the facts constituting their respective claims and defenses.
Sec. 90. [Sufficiency, how determined.] —The rules of pleading here
tofore existing in civil actions, are abolished, and hereafter the forms of pleading
in civil actions in courts of record and the rules by which their sufficiency may
be determined, are those prescribed by this code.
Sec. 91. [Pleadings allowed.] —The only pleadings allowed are: —First.
The petition by the plaintiff. Second. The answer or demurrer by the defendant.
I'hird,, The demurrer, or reply by the plaintiff. Fourth. The demurrer to the re
ply, by the defendant.
THE PETITION.
Sec. 92. [Contents.]—The petition must contain—First. The name of the
court and county in which the action is brought, and the names of the parties,
plaintiff and defendant. Second.' A statement of the facts constituting the cause
of action, in ordinary and concise language, and without repetition. Third. A
demand of the relief to which the party supposes himself entitled. If the recov
ery of money be demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated ; and if interest
thereon be claimed the time from which interest is to be computed shall also be
stated.
Sec. 93. [Causes of action separately stated.] —Where the petition con
tains more than one cause of action, each shall be separately stated and numbered.
Sec. 94. [Demurrer—Grounds of]—The defendant may demur to the
petition only when it appears on its face : Either—First. That the court has no
jurisdiction of the person of tbe defendant, or the subject of the action. Second.
That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue. Third. That there is another
action pending between the same parties for the same cause. Fourth. That there
is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant. Fifth. That several causes of action
are improperly joined. Sixth. That the petition does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
Seo. 95. [Same—Distinctly stated.] —The demurrer shall specify dis
tinctly the groundsof objection to the petition. Unless it do so, it shall be re
garded as objecting only that the petition does not state facts sufficient to consti
tute a cause of action.
Sec. 96. [Waiver—Jurisdiction—No cause of action.]—When any
of the defects enumerated in section ninety-four do not appear upon the face of
the petition, the objection may be taken by answer; and if no objection be taken
either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the
same, except only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and that the peti
tion does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Sec. 97. [Misjoinder—Separation.]—When a demurrer is sustained on
the ground of misjoinder of several causes of action, the court, on motion of the
plaintiff, shall allow him, with or without costs in its discretion, to file Beveral pe
titions, each including such of said causes of action as might have been joined ;
and an action shall be docketed for each of said petitions, and the same shall be
proceeded in without further service.
8ec. 98. [Demurrer in part— Answer in part.]—The defendant may
demur to one or more of the several causes of action stated in the petition, and
answer as to the residue.
Seo. 99. [Contents.] —The answer shall contain : Firtt. A general or spe
cific denial of each material allegation of the petition controverted by the defend
ant. Second. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense, counter-claim,
or set-off, in ordinary and concise language, and without repetition.
Seo. 100. [Several grounds of defense.]—The defendant may set forth
in his answer as many grounds of defense, counter-claim and set-off as he may
have. Each must be separately stated and numbered, and they must refer in an
intelligible manner to the cause of action which they are intended to answer.
Seo. 101. [Counter-claim.] —The counter-claim mentioned in the last sec
tion, must be one existing in favor of a defendant, and against a plaintiff, between
whom a Beveral judgment might be had in the action, and arising out of the con
tract or transaction set forth in the petition as the foundation of the plaintiff's
claim, or connected with the subject of the action.
Seo. 102. [Same—Omission—Effect—Costs.] —If the defendant omit to
set up the counter-claim or set-off, he cannot recover costs against the plaintiff in
any subsequent action thereon ; but this section shall not apply to causes of action
which are stricken out of or withdrawn from the answer, as provided in sections
one hundred and three and one hundred and twenty-six.
Sec. 103. [Same—New party.] —When it appears that a new party is
necessary to final decision upon the counter-claim, the court may either permit
the new party to be made, by a summons, to reply to the counter-claim, or may
direct the counter-claim to be stricken out of the answer, and made the subject of
a separate action.
Sec. 104. [Set-off.] —A set-off can only be pleaded in an action founded on
contract^ and must be a cause of action arising upon contract, or ascertained by
the decision of the court.
Sec. 105. [Same—New party.] —When it appears that a new party is
necessary to the final decision upon the set-off, the court shall permit the new
party to be made, if it also appear that owing to the insolvency or non-residence
of the plaintiff, or other cause, the defendant will be in danger of losing his
claim, unless permitted to use it as a set-off.
Sec. 106. [Cross demands, compensated- Assignment.]-When crossdemands
have existed between persons under such circumstances that if one had
brought an action against the other a counter-claim or set-off could have been setup,
neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof by the assignment or death of the other,
but the two demands must be deemed compensated, so far as they equal each other.
Seo. 107. [Answer of guardian—Attorney.]—The guardian of an in
fant or person of an unsound mind, or attorney for a person in prison, shall deny
in the answer all material allegations of the petition prejudicial to such defendant.
REPLY.
Seo. 108. [Repealed. Gen. Stat. 713.]
Sec. 109. [Demurrer—Reply.] —The plaintiff may demur to one or more
of the defenses set up in the answer, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof,
and where the answer contains new matter, the plaintiff may reply to such new
matter denying generally or specifically, each allegation controverted by him ;
and he may allege, in ordinary and concise language, and without repetition, any
new matter, not inconsistent with the petition, constituting a defense to such new
matter in the answer. [K. S. 411. Amended to take effect Sept. 1, 1878. G. 8.541.]
GENERAL RULES OF PLEADING.
Seo. 110. [Time of filing.] —The answer or demurrer of the defendant
shall be filed on or before the third Monday, and the reply or demurrer of the
plaintiff on or before the fifth Monday after the return day of the summons, or
service by publication. I
Seo. 111. [Same—Extended.] —The court, or the judge thereof in vaca
tion, for good cause shown, may extend the time for filing an answer or reply, J
upon such terms as may be just. J
Seo. 112. [Subscribed by party or attorney.] —Every pleading in a,
court of record must be subscribed by the party, or his attorney. (
Seo. 118. [Verification.] —Every pleading of fact must be verified by the j
affidavit of the party, his agent or attorney. A pleading verified as herein re- 1
quired, shall not be used against a party in any criminal prosecution or action,
or proceeding for a penalty or forfeiture, as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in
such pleading ; and such verification shall not make other or greater proof nec
essary on the side of the adverse party.
Sec. 114. [Same—Exceptions.] —The verification mentioned in the last section shall not be required to the answer of a guardian defending for an infant
or person of unsound mind, or a person imprisoned ; nor in any case where the
admission of the truth of a fact stated in the pleading might subject the party to
a criminal or penal prosecution.
Sec. 115. [Same—Several parties.]—If there be several persons united in
interest and pleading together, the affidavit may be made by any one of such parties.
Sec. 116. [Same—Contents.] —The affidavit shall be sufficient if it state
that the affiant believes the facts stated in the pleading to be true.
Sec. 117. [Same—Non-resident.]—In all cases where the party pleading
is a non-resident of the county in which the action is brought, or if he shall be
absent from the county where the pleading is filed, an affidavit made before riling
the pleading, stating the substance of the facts afterwards inserted in the plead
ing, shall be a sufficient verification. Such affidavit shall be filed with the plead
ing intended to be verified thereby.
Sec. 118. [Same—Before whom.]—The affidavit verifying pleadings may
be made before any notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths
and must be signed by the party making the same ; and the officer before whom
the same was taken shall certify that it was sworn to or affirmed before him and
signed in his presence. The certificate of such officer signed officially by him,
shall be evidence that the affidavit was duly made, that the name of the officer
was written by himself and that he was such officer, and nothing herein shall be
construed to prohibit an attorney at law, who is a notary public from swearing a
client to any pleading or other paper or affidavit in any proceeding in any of the
courts of this state. [Amended 1887, chap. 98. Took effect July 1, 1887.]
Sec. 119. [Same—Amount claimed.]—The verification of a pleading
does not apply to the amount claimed, except in actions founded on contracts,
express or implied, for the payment of money only.
Sec. 120. [Same—By agent—Attorney.] —When the affidavit is made by
the agent or attorney, it must set forth the reason why it is not made by the party him
self. It can be made by the agent or attorney only : First. When the facts are within
the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney. Second. When the plaintiff is an in
fant, or of unsound mind, or imprisoned. Third. When the pleading to be verified is
founded upon a written instrument for the payment of moneyonly, and such instru
ment is in the possession of the agent or attorney. Fourth. When the party is not a
resident of, or is absent from the county. Fifth. When the party is a corporation, in
which case it may be made by the attorney, or any officer or agent upon whom a
summons could be legally served. [Amended 1875, 84. Took effect Feb. 24, 1875.]
Sec. 121. [Pleadings liberally construed.] —In the construction of any
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effects, its allegations shall be liber
ally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.
Sec. 122-123. [Repealed. Gen. Stat. 713.]
Sec. 124. [Copies of instrument.]—If the action, counter-claim, or set
off be founded on an account, or on a note, bill, or other written instrument, as
evidence of indebtedness, a copy thereof must be attached to and filed with tbe
pleading, except in actions founded upon notes issued to circulate as money. If
not so attached and filed, the reason thereof must be shown in the pleading.
Sec. 125. [Matter stricken out.] —If redundant, scandalous, or irrele
vant matter be inserted in any pleading, it may be stricken out on motion of tbe
party prejudiced thereby. And when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite
and uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the
court may require the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment.
Sec. 126. [Counter-claim—Set-off—Withdrawn.]—The court, at any
time before the final submission of the cause, on motion of the defendant, may
allow a counter-claim or set-off , set up in the answer, to be withdrawn, and the same
may become the Bubject of another action. On motion of either party, to be made
at the time such counter-claim or set-off is withdrawn, an action on the same shall
be docketed and proceeded in as in like cases after process served ; and the court
shall direct the time and manner of pleading therein. If an action be not so
docketed, it may afterwards be commenced in the ordinary way.
Sec. 127. [Judgment, how plead.]—In pleadinga judgment, or other de
termination of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall be sufficient to
state that such judgment or determination was duly given or made. If such alle
gation be controverted, the party pleading must establish, on the trial, the facta
conferring jurisdiction.
Sec. 128. [Conditions precedent.] —In pleading the performance of condi
tions precedent in a contract, it shall be sufficient to state that the party duly
performed all the conditions on his part ; and if such allegation be controverted,
the party pleading must establish on the trial, the factB showing such performance.
Sec. 129. [Action on negotiable instrument.]—In an action, counter
claim or set-off, founded upon an account, promissory note, bill of exchange or
other instrument, for the unconditional payment of money only, it shall be suffi
cient for the party to give a copy of the account or instrument, with all credits
and endorsements thereon, and to Btate that there is due to him on such account
or instrument, from the adverse party, a specified sum, which he claims with in
terest. When others than the makers of a promissory note, or the acceptors of a
bill of exchange, are parties in the action, it shall be necessary to state also the
kind of liability of the several parties, and the facts, as they may be, which fix
their liability.
Sec. 180. [Private statute.] —In pleading a private statute, or a right de
rived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title, and the
day of its passage, and the court Bhall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.
Sec. 181 . [Libel—Slander.] —In an action for libel or slander, it shall be sufficent
to state, generally, that the defamatory matter was published or spoken of
the plaintiff, and if the allegation be denied, the plaintiff must prove on the trial
the facts, showing that the defamatory matter was published or spoken of him.
Sec. 182. [Same—Defense—Truth.] —In the actions mentioned in the
last section, the defendant may allege the truth of the matter charged as defama
tory, and may prove the same, and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the
amount of damages, or he may prove either.
Sec. 183. [Real property—Description.] —In an action for the recovery
of real property, it shall be described with sufficient certainty to enable an officer
holding an execution to identify it.
Sec. 134. [Allegations taken as true.] —Every material allegation of
the petition not controverted by the answer, and every material allegation of new
matter in the answer, not controverted by the reply, shall, for the purpose of the
action, be taken as true ; but the allegation of new matter in the reply, shall be
deemed controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial or avoidance.
Allegations of value, or of amount of damage, shall not be considered as true by
failure to controvert them. [Amended to take effect Sept. 1, 1878. G. S. 546.]
Sec. 185. [Material allegation, defined.]—A material allegation in a
Sleading is one essential to the claim or defense, which could not be stricken
•om the pleading without leaving it insufficient.
Sec. 136. [Judicial notice.] —Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of
which judicial notice is taken, need be stated in the pleading.
Sec. 187. [Original pleading lost.] —If an original pleading be lost, or
withheld by any person, the court may allow a copy thereof to be substituted.
MISTAKES IN PLEADINGS, AND AMENDMENTS.
Sec. 138. [Variance—When not material.] —No variance between the
allegation in a pleading and the proof, is to be deemed material, unless it have
actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or
defense upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has been so misled,
that fact must be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and it must also be shown
in what respect he has been misled ; and thereupon the court may order the
pleading to be amended upon such terms as may be just.
Sec. 189. [Same—Amendment.] —Whenever the variance is not mater
ial, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found ac
cording to the evidence, and may order an immediate amendment without costs.
SEC. 140. [Same—Failure of proof.]—When, however, the allegation of
the claim or defense to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some par
ticular or particulars only, but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be
deemed a cas« of variance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
SEC. 141. [Petition amended before answer.]—The plaintiff may
amend his petition without leave, at any time before the answer is filed, without
prejudice to the proceeding ; but notice of such amendment shall be served upon
the defendant, or his attorney, and the defendant shall have the same time to
answer or demur thereto as to the original petition.
SEC. 142. [Amendment after demurrer—Notice.]—At any time with
in ten days after a demurrer is filed, the adverse party may amend, of course, on
payment of costs since filing the defective pleading. Notice of filing an amended
pleading shall be forthwith served upon the other party, who shall have the same
time thereafter to answer, or reply thereto, as to an original pleading.
SEC. 148. [Demurrer overruled—Answer—Reply.]—Upon a demurrer
being overruled, the party who demurred may answer or reply, if the court be sat
isfied that he has a meritorious claim or defense, and did not demur for delay.
SEC. 144. [Amendments in furtherance of justice.]—The court may,
either before or fter judgment, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as
may be proper, amend any pleading, process or proceeding, by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or
a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the
case, or, when the amendment does not change substantially the claim or defense,
by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved. And whenever any
_ taken by a party fails to conform, in any respect to the provisions of
;bis code, the court may permit the same to be made conformable thereto, by
amendment. [Amended 1875, 85. Took effect Feb. 4, 1875.]
Sec. 145. [Immaterial errors disregarded.] —The court, in every stage
of an action, must disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings,,
which does not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment
shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.
Beo. 146. [Demurrer sustained—Amendment.]—If the demurrer be
sustained, the adverse party may amend, if the defect can be remedied by way of
amendment, with or without costs, as the court in its discretion shall direct.
Seo. 147. [Continuance upon amendments—When either party shall
amend any pleading or proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied, by affidavit, or
otherwise, that the adverse party could not be ready for trial in consequence thereof,
a continuance may be granted to some day in term, or to another term of the court.
Sec. 148. [Unknown defendants—Designations.] —"When the plain tiff
shall be ignorant of the name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated
in any pleading or proceeding by any name and description, and when his true
name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.
The plaintiff in such case must state, in the verification of his petition, that he
could not discover the true name, and the summons must contain the words "real
name unknown," and a copy thereof must be served personally upon the defendant.
Sec. 149. [Supplemental pleadings.]—Either party may be allowed, on
notice, and on such terms as to costs as the court may prescribe, to file a supple
mental petition, answer or reply, alleging facts material to the case, occuring
after the former petition, answer or reply.
Sec. 150. [Actions consolidated.] —Whenever two or more actions are
pending in the same court which might have been joined, the defendant may, on
motion and notice to the adverse party, require him to show cause why the same
shall not be consolidated, and if no such cause be shown, the said several actions
shall be consolidated.
Sec. 151. [Same—Order.] —The order for consolidation may be made by
the court or by a judge thereof in vacation.
TITLE VIII.—Provisional Remedies.
CHAPTER I. —ARRE8T AND BAIL. [REPEALED LAWS 1887, chap. 99.]
CHAPTER II. —REPLEVIN OP PROPERTY.
Sec. 181. [Delivery of property—When claimed.]—The plaintiff in
an action to recover the possession of specific personal property, may, at the
commencement of the suit, or any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery
of such property as provided in this chapter. [R. 8. 421. G. S. 652.]
Sec. 182. [Order—Affidavit.] —An order for the delivery of personal prop
erty to the plaintiff, shall be made by the clerk of the court in which the action is
brought, when there shall be filed inhis office an affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney showing: First. A description of the property claimed. Second. That the
plaintiff is the owner of the property, or has a special ownership or interest
therein, stating the facts in relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the imme
diate possession of the same. Third. Thatthe property is wrongfully detained by
the defendant. Fourth. That it was not taken in execution on any order or judgment.
Sic. 145. Cited 13 Neb. 32.
against said plaintiff ; or for the payment of any fine, tax or amercement assessed
against him, or by virtue of an order of delivery issued under this chapter, or any
other mesne or final process issued against, him ; .Provided, That such affidavit
may omit the first and last clause of this subdivision and in lieu thereof, show
that the property was taken in execution on a judgment or order, other than an
order of delivery in replevin, and that the same»ia exempt from such execution or
attachment under the laws of this state ; And provided furtlier, That the provisions
of this act shall extend to and apply as well to proceedings in replevin had before
justices of the peace. [Amended 1877, 9. Took effect June 1, 1877.]
Sec. 183. [Order—Contents.] —The order for the delivery of the property
to the plaintiff shall be addressed and delivered to the sheriff. It shall state'tho
names of the parties, the court in which the action is brought, and command 4he
sheriff to take the property, describing it, and deliver it to the plaintiff, and to
make return of the order on a day to be named therein.
SEC. 184. [Same—Returnable.] —The return day for the order of delivery,
when issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the same as that of the
summons ; when issued afterwards, it shall be twenty days after it issued.
Sec. 185. [Same—Execution.] —The sheriff shall execute the order by
taking the property therein mentioned. He shall also deliver a copy of the order
to the person charged with the unlawful detention of the property, or leave such
copy at his usual place of residence.
Sec. 186. [Bond.] —The sheriff, or other officer, shall not deliver to the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, the property so taken, until there has been exe
cuted, by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, a written undertaking to
the defendant in at least double the value of the property taken, to the effect that
the plaintiff shall duly prosecute the action and pay all costs and damages which
may be awarded against him, and return the property to the defendant, in cote
judgment for a return of such property is rendered against him. The undertaking
shall be returned with the order. [Amended to take effect Sept. 1, 1878. G.S. 553.j
Sec. 187. [Same—Appraisement.]—For the purpose of fixing the
amount of the undertaking, the value of the property taken shall be ascertained by
the oath of two or more responsible persons, whom the sheriff or other officer shah
swear truly to assess the value thereof.
SEC. 188. [Same—When given.]—If the undertaking, required by section
one hundred and eighty-six, be not given within twenty-four hours from the tak
ing of the property under said order, the sheriff or other officer shall return the
property to the defendant. And if the sheriff or other officer deliver any property
so taken to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, or keep the same from ,' %b defend
ant, without taking such security within the time aforesaid, or if he taKe insuffi
cient security, he shall be liable to the defendant in damages.
SEC. 189. [Same—Objections to sureties.] —The defendant may, within
twenty-four hours from the time the undertaking referred to in the preceding section
is given by the plaintiff , give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency
ol the sureties. If he fail to do so, he must be deemed to have waived ah objec
tions to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties must justify upon notiee
as bail on arrest. The sheriff or other officer shall be responsible for the soffi ciency
of the sureties, until the objection to them is waived as above provided or
until they justify. The property shall be delivered to the plaintiff, when the un
dertaking, required by section one hundred and eighty-six has been given.
SEC. 190. [Proceedings in action—Jury—Findings.]—li the property
has been delivered to the plaintiff , and judgment be rendered against him on de-
murrer, or if he otherwise fail to prosecute his action to final judgment, the court
shall, on application of the defendant or his attorney, impannel a jury to inquire
into the right of property and right of possession of the defendant to the prop
erty taken. If the jury shall be satisfied that said property was the property of
the defendant at the commencement of the action, or if they shall find that the
defendant was entitled to the possession only of the same at such time, then, and
in either case, they shall assess such damages for the defendant as are right and
Sroper ; for which, with costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for the
efendant.
SEC. 191. [Same.] —In all cases, when the property has been delivered to
the plaintiff, where the jury shall find upon issue joined, tot the defendant, they
shall also find whether the defendant had the right of property or the right of pos
session only, at the commencement of the suit ; and if they find either in his fa
vor, they shall assess such damages as they think right and proper for the de
fendant ; for which, with costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for the de
fendant.
Sec. 191 a. [Return of property.] —Sec. 7. The judgment in the cases
mentioned in sections one hundred and ninety, and one hundred and ninety-one,
and in section one thousand and forty-one of said code, shall be for a return of
the property or the value thereof in case a return cannot be had, or the value of
the possession of the same, and for damages for withholding said property, and
costs of suit. [Took effect Sept. 1, 1878. G. S. 718.]
^ Sec. 192. [Same—Damages.] —In all cases, when the property has been
delivered to the plaintiff, where the jury shall find for the plaintiff, on an issue
joined, or on inquiry of damages upon a judgment by default, they shall assess
adequate damages to the plaintiff for the illegal detention of the property ; for
■which, with costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for defendant.
Sec. 193. [Same—Property not returned.] —When the property claimed
has not been taken, or has been returned to the defendant by the sheriff for want
of the undertaking required by section one hundred and eighty-six, the action
may proceed as one for damages only, and the plaintiff shall be entitled to such
damages as are right and proper ; but if the property be returned for want of the
undertaking required by section one hundred ana eighty-six, the plaintiff shall pay
all costs made by taking the same.
Sec. 198 a. [Judgment for defendant on dismissal.]—That whenever
any action in replevin shall be dismissed by the court for irregularities or defects
in the proceedings by the plaintiff, judgment may be given in favor of the defend
ant on proof of the value of the property and amount of damages. [1875, 44.]
Sec. 194. [Order to several counties.] —An order may be directed to
any other county than the one in which the action is brought, for the delivery of
the property claimed. Several orders may issue at the same time, or successive
ly, at the optipn of the plaintiff ; but only one of them shall be taxed in the costs,
unless otherwise ordered by the court.
Sec. 195. [Order—Execution—Power of sheriff.] — The sheriff or
other officer in the execution of the order of delivery, may break open any build
ing or enclosure in which the property claimed, or any part thereof, is concealed ;
but not until he has been refused an entrance into said building or enclosure and
the delivery of the property, after having demanded the same.
Sec. 196. [Suit on undertaking.] —No suit shall be instituted on the under
taking given under section one hundred and eighty-six, before an execution issued
on a judgment in favor of tli6 defendant in the action shall have been returned,
that sufficient property whereon to levy and make the amount of such judgment
cannot' be found in the county.
Sec. 197. [Liability of clerk and plaintiff.] —Any order for the delivery
of property issued under section one-hundred and eighty-two, without the affidavit
required thereby, shall be set aside at the cost of the* clerk issuing the same, and
such clerk, as well as the plaintiff, shall also be liable in damages to the party
injured.
CHAPTER m.—ATTACHMENT.
Sec. 198. [When allowed—Grounds.]—The plaintiff in a civil action for
the recovery of money, may, at or after the commencement thereof, have an at
tachment against the property of the defendant, and upon the grounds herein
stated : First. When the defendant, or one of several defendants, is a foreign
corporation, or a non-resident of this state ; or, Second. Has absconded with the
intent to defraud his creditors ; or, Third. Has left the county of his residence to
avoid the service of a summons ; or, Fourth. So conceals himself that a sum
mons cannot be served upon him ; or, Fifth. Is about to remove his property, or
a part thereof, out of the jurisdiction of tne court, with the intent to defraud his
creditors ; or, Sixth. Is about to convert his property, or a part thereof, into
money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors; or, Seventh.
Has property, or rights in action, which he conceals ; or, Eighth. Has assigned,
removed, or disposed of, or is about to dispose of, his property, or a part thereof,
•with the intent to defraud his creditors ; or. Ninth. Fraudulently contracted the
debt or incurred tho obligation for which Buit is about to be or has been brought.
But an attachment shall not be granted on the ground that the defendant is a for
eign corporation, or a non-resident of the state, for any claim other than a debt
or demand arising upon contract, judgment, or decree.
Sec. 199. [Affidavit.] —An order of attachment shall be made by the clerk
of the court in which the action is brought, in any case mentioned in the preced
ing section, when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent,
or attorney, showing : First. The nature of the plaintiff's claim. Second. That
it is just. Third. The amount which the affiant believes the plaintiff ought to
recover. Fourth. The existence of some one of the grounds for an attachment
enumerated in the preceding section.
Sec. 200. [Undertaking.]—When the ground of the attachment is, that
the defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of the state, the order of
attachment may be issued without an undertaking. In all other cases, the order
of attachment shall not be issued by the clerk until there has been executed in his
office, by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, to be approved by the
clerk an undertaking not exceeding double the amount of the plaintiff s claim, to the
effect that the plaintiff shall pay the defendant all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the attachment, if the order be wrongfully obtained.
Sec. 201. [Order—Requirements.]—The order of attachment shall be di
rected and delivered to the sheriff. It shall require him to attach the lands, ten
ements, goods, chattels, stocks, or interests in stocks, rights, credits, moneys, and
effects of the defendant in his county not exempt by law from being applied to
the payment of the plaintiff's claim, or so much thereof as will satisfy the plaint
iff's claim, to be stated in the order as in the affidavit, and the probable costs of
the action, not exceeding fifty dollars.
Sec. 202. [Same—To several counties.]—Orders of attachment may be
issued to the sheriff of different counties ; and several of them may, at the option
of the plaintiff, be issued at the same time, or in succession ; but such only as have
been executed shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise directed by the court.
Sec. 203. [Same—Returnable.] —The return day of the order of attach
ment, when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the same as that
of the summons ; when issued afterwards, it shall be twenty days after it is
issued.
execution and return.
Sec. 204. [Several orders, how executed.] —When there are several
orders of attachment against the same defendant, they shall be executed in the
order in which they are received by the sheriff.
Sec. 205. [Duty of sheriff—Appraisement.] —The order of attachment
shall be executed by the sheriff without delay. He shall go to the place where the
defendant's property may be found, and there in the presence of two residents of
the county, declare that by virtue of said order he attaches said property at the
suit of such plaintiff ; and the officer, with the said residents, who shall be first
sworn or affirmed by the officer, shall make a true inventory and appraisement of
all the property attached, which Bhall be signed by the officer and residents, and
returned with the order. Where the property attached is real property, the offi
cer shall leave with the occupant thereof, or, if there be no occupant, in a con
spicuous place thereon, a copy of the order. Where it is personal property, and
accessible, he shall take the same into his custody, and hold it subject to the order
of the court.
Sec. 206. [Same—Bond.] —The sheriff shall deliver the property attached
to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the execution by such person,
in the presence of the sneriff, of an undertaking to the plaintiff, with one or more
sufficient sureties, resident in the county, to the effect that the parties to the same
are bound in double the appraised value thereof, that the property or its appraised
value in money shall be forthcoming to answer the judgment of .the court in the
action ; but if it shall appear to the court that any part of said property has been
lost or destroyed by unavoidable accident, the value thereof shall be remitted to
the person so bound.
Sec. 207. [Proceedings against garnishee.]—When the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney, shall make oath, in writing, that he has good reason to and
does believe that any person or corporation, to be named ana within the county
where the action is brought, has property of the defendant (describing the same)
in his possession, if the officer cannot come at such property, he shall leave with
such garnishee a copy of the order of attachment, with a written notice that he
appear in court, at the return of the order of attachment, and answer, as provided
in section two hundred and twenty-one.
Sec. 208. [Same—Service of order.] —The copy of the order and the
notice Bhall be served upon the garnishee as follows : If he be a person, they
shall be served upon him personally, or left at his usual place of residence ; if a
corporation, they shall be left with the president or other officer of the same, or a
managing agent thereof.
SEC. 209. [Several attachments—Same property.] —Different attach
ments of the same property may be made by the same officer, and one inventory
and appraisement shall be sufficient, and it shall not be necessary to return the
same with more than one order.
Sec. 210. [Property how attached by subsequent orders.] —Where
the property is under attachment, it shall be attached under subsequent orders aa
follows : First. If it be real property, it shall be attaehed in the manner pre
scribed in section two hundred and five. Second. If it be personal property, it
shall be attached as in the hands of the officer, and subject to any previous attach
ment. Third. If the same person or corporation be made a garnishee, a copy of
the order and notice shall be left with him, in the manner prescribed in section
two hundred and seven.
Sec. 211. [Return of officer.] —The officer shall return upon every order
of attachment what he has done under it. The return must show the property
attached, and time it was attached. ' When garnishees are served, their names,
and the time each was served, must be stated. The officer shall also return with
the order all undertakings' given under it.
Sec. 212. [Property and garnishee bound by order.]—An order of
attachment binds the property attached from the time of service, and the'garnishee
shall stand liable to the plaintiff in attachment for all property, moneys, and
credits in his hands, or due from him to the defendant, from the time he is sernd
with the written notice mentioned in section two hundred and seven ; but where
the property is attached in the hands of a consignee, his lien thereon shall not be
affected by the attachment.
DISPOSITION OP ATTACHED PROPERTY.
Sec. 218. [Receiver—Appointment.]—The court, or any judge thereof
during vacation, may, on the application of the plaintiff, and on good cause
shown, appoint a receiver, who shall take an oath faithfully to discharge his duty,
and shall give an undertaking to the State of Nebraska, in such sum as the court
or judge may direct, and with such security as shall be approved by the clerk of
the court, for the faithful performance of his duty as such receiver, and to pay
over all money, and account for all property, which may come into his hands by
virtue of his appointment, at such times and in such manner as the court may
direct.
Sec. 214. [Same—Take possession of property.]—Such receiver shall
take possession of all notes, due bills, books of account, accounts, and all other
evidences of debt, that have been taken by the sheriff or other officer, as the prop
erty of the defendant in attachment, and shall proceed to settle and collect the
same. For that purpose, he may commence and maintain actions in his own
name as such receiver ; but in such action no right of defense shall be impaired
or affected.
Sec. 215. [Same—Notice to debtors.]—Such receiver shall forthwith
give notice of his appointment to the persons indebted to the defendant in attach
ment. The notice shall be written or printed, and shall be served on the debtor
or debtors, by copy personally, or by copy left at the residence ; and from the
date of such service, the debtors shall stand liable to the plaintiff in attachment
for the amount of moneys and credits in their hands, or due from them to the defendant
in attachment, and shall account therefor to the receiver.
Sec. 216. [Same—Report.] —Such receiver shall, when required, report
his proceedings to the court, and hold all moneys colleeted by him, and property
which may come into his hands, subject to the order of the court.
Sec. 217. [Sheriff—Act as receiver.] —Where a receiver is not appointed
by the court or a judge thereof, as provided in section two hundred and thirteen,
the sheriff or other officer attaching the property shall have all the powers and
perform all the duties of a receiver appointed by the court or a judge, and may,
if necessary, commence and maintain actions in his own name as such officer. He
may be required to give security, other than his official undertaking.
Sec. 218. [Preservation of property—Sale.]—The court shall make
proper orders for the preservation of the property during the pendency of the
suit. It may direct the sale of property when, because of its perisbable'nature,
or the costs of keeping it, a sale will be for the benefit of the parties. In
vacation, such sale may be ordered by the judge of the court. The sale shall be
public, after such advertisement as is prescribed for the sale of like property on
execution, and shall be made in such manner, and upon such terms of credit,
with security, as the court or judge, having regard to the probable duration of the
action, may direct. The proceeds, if collected by the sheriff, with all the moneys
received by him from garnishees, shall be held and paid over by him, under the
same requirements and responsibilities of himself and sureties as are provided in
respect to money deposited in lieu of bail.
proceedings upon attachment.
Sec. 219. [Attachment—Discharge—Bond.]—If the defendant, or any
other person on his behalf, at any time before judgment, cause an undertaking to
be executed to the plaintiff by one or more sureties resident in the county, to be
approved by the court, in double the amount of the plaintiff 's claim as stated in
his affidavit, to the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the
court, the attachment in such action shall be discharged, and restitution made of
any property taken under it, or the proceeds thereof. Such undertaking shall al
so discharge the liability of a garnisb.ee in such action for any property of the de
fendant in his hands.
Sec. 220. [Same—Undertaking.]—The undertaking mentioned in the last section, may, in vacation, be executed in the presence of the Bhenff having the or
der of attachment in his hands, or, after the return of the order, before the clerk,
with the same effect as if executed in court ; the sureties in either case to be ap
proved by the officer before whom the undertaking is executed.
Sec. 221. [Garnishee—Appearance—Answer—Fees.] —The garnishee
shall appear as follows : If the order of attachment be returned during a term of
court, he shall appear at that term ; if the order be returned during vacation, he
shall appear at tne term next after its return. He shall appear and answer un
der oath all th6 questions put to him touching the property of every description
and credits of the defendant in his possession or undei nis control, and he shall
disclose truly the amount owing by nim to the defendant whether due or not, and
in case of a corporation, any stock therein held by or for the benefit of the de-
fendant, at or after the service of notice. But a garnishee shall npt be required
to appear in this o» in any other case, unless there is tendered to him the same
fees as a witness is entitled to in the suit in which the garnishee proceedings are
had, and such fees may be taxed and collected in the same manner as other costs
in such proceedings. [Amended 1877, 10. Took effect June 1, 1877.]
Sec. 222. [Same— Payment of money to sheriffo]—A garnishee may
pay the money owing to the defendant by him, to the sheriff having the order of
attachment, or into court. He shall be discharged from liability to the defendant,
for any money so paid, not exceeding the plaintiff's claim. He shall not be sub
jected to costs beyond those caused by his resistance of ibe claim against him ;
and if he disclose the property in his hands, or the truo amount owing by him,
and deliver or pay the same according to the order of the court, he shall be allow
ed his costs.
Seo. 223. [Same—Refusal to answer—Contempt.]—If the garnishee
do not appear in court and. answer, as required by section two hundred and twen
ty-one, the court may proceed against him by attachment as for a contempt.
Sec. 224. [Same—Disposition of property.] —If the garnishee appear
and answer, and.it is discovered on his examination, that at or after the service
of the order of attachment and notice upon him, he was possessed of any property
of the defendant, or was indebted to him, the court may order the delivery of such
property and the payment of the amount owing by the garnishee, into the court ;
or the court may permit the garnishee to retain the property or the amount owing,
upon the execution of an undertaking to the plaintiff by one or more sufficient
sureties, to the effect that the amount shall be paid, or the property forthcoming,
as the court may direct.
Sec. 225. [Same-^Neglect—Action against.]—If the garnishee fail to
appear and answer, or if he appear and answer, and his disclosure is not satis
factory to the plaintiff, or if ne fail to comply with the order of the court, or
deliver the property and pay the money owing into court, or give the under
taking required in the preceding section, the plaintiff may proceed against him in an
action, by filing a petition in his own name, as in other cases, and causing a sum
mons to be issued upon it ; and thereupon such proceedings may be had as in
other actions, and judgment may be rendered in favor of the plaintiff, for the
amount of the property and credits of every kind of the defendant m the possession
of the garnishee, and for what shall appear to be owing by him to the defendant,
and for the costs of the proceedings against the garnishee. If the plaintiff pro
ceed against the garnishee by action, for the cause that his disclosure was unsat
isfactory, unless it appear in the action that such disclosure was incomplete, the
plaintiff shall pay the costs of such action. The judgment in this action may be
enforced as judgments in other cases. When the claims of the plaintiff in attach
ment are satisfied, the defendant in attachment may, on motion, be substituted
as the plaintiff in the judgment.
Sec. 226. [Same— Final judgment— Discharge.]— Final judgment
shall not be rendered against the garnishee, until the action against the defendant
in attachment has been determined ; and if in such action judgment be rendered
for the defendant in attachment, the garnishee shall be discharged and recover
costs. If the plaintiff shall recover against the defendant in attachment, and the
garnishee shall deliver up all the property, moneys, and credits of the defendant
in his possession, and pay all the moneys from him due as the court may order,
the garnishee shall be discharged, and the costs of the proceedings against him
shall be paid out of the property and moneys so surrendered, or as the court may
think right and proper.
Sec. 227. [Judgment for defendant—Attachment discharged.]—
If judgment be rendered in the action for the defendant, the attachment shall be
discharged, and the property attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to him.
Sec. 228. [Judgment for plaintiff—Satisfaction.] —If judgment be
rendered for the plaintiff, it shall be satisfied as follows : So much of the prop
erty remaining in the hands of the officer, after applying the moneys arising from
the sale of perishable property, and so much of the personal property, and lands
and tenements, if any, whether held by legal or equitable title, as may be neces
sary to satisfy the judgment, shall be sold by order of the court, under the same
restrictions and regulations as if the same had been levied on by execution ; and
the money arising therefrom, with the amount which may be recovered from the
garnishee, shall be applied to satisfy the judgment and costs. If there be not
enough to satisfy the same, the judgment shall stand, and execution may issue
thereon, for the residue, in all respects, as in other cases. Any surplus of the
attached property, or its proceeds, shall be returned to the defendant.
Sec. 229. ^Delivery of property for sale.] —The court may compel the
delivery to the sheriff, for sale, of any of the attached property for which an under
taking may have been given, and may proceed summarily on such undertaking,
to enforce the delivery of the property, or the payment of such sum as may be
due upon the undertaking, by rules and attachments, as in cases of contempt.
Sec. 280. [Same.] —The court may order the sheriff to repossess himself, for
the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached property which may have passed
out of his hands without having been sold or converted into money ; and the
sheriff shall, under such order, have the same power to take the property as he
would have under an order of attachment.
Sec. 281. [Intervening claimants.]—If personal property which has
been attached, be claimed by any person other than the defendant, it shall be the
duty of the officer to have the validity of such claim tried, and such proceedings
must be had thereon, with the like effect, as in case the property had been seized
upon execution, and claimed by a third person. I
Sec. 282. [Several attachments—Reference.] —Where several attach
ments are executed on the same property, or the same persons are made gar
nishees, the court, on the motion of any of the plaintiffs, may order a reference
to ascertain and report the amounts and priorities of the several attachments.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Bec. 288. [Jurisdiction of court—Survivor.]—From the time of the is=
suing of the order of attachment, the court shall be deemed to have acquired ju
risdiction, and to have control of all subsequent proceedings under this chapter;
and if, after the issuing of the order, the defendant, being a person, should die,
or a corporation and its charter should expire by limitation, forfeiture, or other
wise, the proceeding shall be carried on ; but in all such cases other than where
the defendant was a foreign corporation, his legal representatives shall be made
parties to the action.
Sec. 284. [Additional security.] —The defendant may, at any time before
judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court for additional
security on the part of the plaintiff ; and if, on such motion, the court is satisfied
that the surety in the plaintiff's undertaking has removed from this state, or is
not sufficient for the amount thereof, it may vacate the order of attachment, and
direct restitution of any property taken under it, unless in a reasonable time, to
be fixed by the court, sufficient security is given by the plaintiff.
Sec. 285. [Motion to discharge attachment.]—The defendant may, at
any time before judgment, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move to dis
charge an attachment, as to the whole or a part of the property attached.
Sec. 286. [Same—Evidence—Affidavits.]—If the motion be made upon
affidavits on the part of the defendant, or papers and evidence in the case, but not
otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in
addition to that on which the order of attachment was made.
Sec. 286 a. [Attachment in several counties—Copy to be filed.]—
Sec. 1. That whenever an attachment shall issue to any other county than the
one in which the action is brought, and any lands shall be attached by virtue
thereof, it shall be the duty of the officers attaching said property to make out a
true copy of said order of attachment, and file the same in the office of the record
er of deeds of the county where the lands so attached are situated. He shall also
certify upon said copy of said order of attachment, that the same is a true copy
of the original writ received by him, and he shall also endorse thereon the de
scription of the property attached, and the time when the same was attached
under and by virtue of the original order of attachment. [G. S. 714.]
Sec. 286 b [Same—Record.]— Sec. 2. It shall be the duty of the recorder of
deeds of the county, when the copy of the order of attachment has been filed as
provided in this act, to record the same in the miscellaneous record together with
the certificate of the officers heretofore mentioned, and such copy of said orders
of attachment, and certificate so filed and recorded, shall be sufficient notice to
subsequent purchasers of said land bo attached as aforesaid.
Sec. 286 c. [Same—Discharge—Proceedings.]— Sec. 8. If the order of
attachment be discharged it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court in which
the action is brought, to certify that fact, together with the time when the order
was discharged to the recorder of deeds in whose office the copy of said order has
been recorded as aforesaid ; whereupon such recorder shall nle such certificate,
and write across the record of such copy the word "discharged," and also the time
of discharge, as shown in said certificate.
Sec. 286 d. [Same—Fees.]— Sec. 4. The officer for making out said copy of
the order of attachment, and the clerk for recording the same, Bhall each receive
such compensation as is now allowed by law for similar services to be taxed in
the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the court.
Sec. 236 e. [Retention of property pending review on error.]—
Bec. 1. That when an order discharging an order of attachment is made, and any
party affected thereby shall except thereto, the court or judge shall fix the number
of days, not to exceed twenty, in which such party may file his petition in error,
during which time the property attached shall be held by the sheriff or other
officer, during which period the petition in error shall be filed, and the party filing
the same shall give an undertaking to the adverse party, with surety or sureties,
to be approved by the court, in double the amount of the appraised value of the
roperty attached, conditioned to pay said adverse party all damages sustained
y such party in consequence of the filing of said petition in error, in the event
that such order of attachment shall be discharged by the court, in which said
petition in error shall be filed, as having been unlawfully obtained. [G. S. 715.1
Sec. 286/. [Same—Conduct of original action.]— Sec. 2. The original
action shall proceed to trial and judgment in every other respect as though no writ
of error had been prosecuted.
attachments in certain actions.
Sec. 237. [Claim not due.] — A creditor may bring an action on a
claim before it is due, and have an attachment against the property of the debtor,
in the following cases : First. Where a debtor has sold, conveyed, or otherwise
disposed of his property, with the fraudulent intent to cheat or defraud his cred
itors, or to hinder or delay them in the collection of their debts. Second. Where
he is about to make such sale, conveyance, or disposition of his property, with
such fraudulent intent. Third. Where he is about to remove his property, or a
material part thereof, with the intent or to the effect of cheating or defrauding his
creditors, or of hindering and delaying them in the collection of their debts.
Sec. 238. [How granted.] —The attachment authorized by the last section
may be granted by the court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof,
or by the probate judge of the county ; but before such action shall be brought, or
such attachment shall be granted, the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, shall make
an oath, in writing, showing the nature and amount of the plaintiff's claim, that
it is just, when the same shall become due, and the existence of some one of
the grounds for attachment enumerated in the preceding section.
Sec. 289. [Refusal to grant order.l—If the court or judge refuse to
grant an order of attachment, the action shall be dismissed, but without prejudice-
to a future action ; and in all such actions application for an attachment must
oe made.
Sec. 240. [Order—Contents.]—The order of the court or judge granting
the attachment shall specify the amount for which it is allowed, not exceeding a
sum sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's claim and the probable costs of the action.
Sec. 241. [Undertaking.] —The order of attachment as granted by the
court or judge, shall not be issued by the clerk until there has been executed in
his office such undertaking on the part of the plaintiff as is directed by section two
hundred.
Sec. 242. [Judgment."1 —The plaintiff in such action shall not have judgment
on his claim before it becomes due, and the proceedings on attachment may be
conducted without delay.
SEC. 248. [Proceedings, how conducted.] —The proceedings in the first article of this chapter subsequent io section two hundred, shall, so far as they are
applicable, regulate the attachments authorized by this chapter.
GARNISHMENT IN CERTAIN CASES.
Sec. 244. [In aid of execution.] —In all cases where an execution issued
upon any judgment of a court of record, or of a justice of the peace, shall be re
turned by the officer in whose hands the same was placed for service, unsatisfied
for want of sufficient property whereof to levy and collect the same, and the
judgment creditor in such execution, his agent or attorney, shall file an affidavit
in the office of the clerk of the court, Or justice of the peace, from which said ex
ecution issued, that he has good reason to and does believe that any person or
corporation (naming them) have property of and are indebted to the judgment
debtor, the said clerk, or justice of the peace, shall issue a summons as in other
cases, requiring such person or corporation to appear in court and answer such
interrogatories as Bhafl be propounded to him, it or them, touching the goods, chat
tels, rights and credits of the said judgment debtor in his, its or their possession
or control.
Sec. 245. [Same— Liability of garnishee.]— The summons shall be made
returnable, and the said persons or corporations shall be required to appear, as in
ordinary cases of summons, and thereafter like proceedings shall be had therein,
and saia garnishees ehall be held liable, in all respects, as in cases of garnishees
before judgment.
SEC. 246. [Same—Proceedings.] —The summons shall be served as a sum
mons in an original action is served ; the said persons or corporations so sum-
tnoned shall be liable to the judgment creditor in said execution for all property,
moneys and credits in his, its or their hands, or due from him, it or them to the
judgment debtor in said execution, at the time of, and which may come into his
its or their hands or control, after the service of said summons.
Sec. 247. [Irregularities not fatal.] —No proceedings against such gar
nishee or garnishees shall be quashed, or such garnishee or garnishees discharged,
by reason of any informality or irregularity, merely, of the affidavit, or summons
provided for in this article.
Sec. 248. [Disposition of property.] —In cases where the garnishee, in
answering such interrogatories, shall disclose that he has property in his posses
sion, or under his control, belonging to the defendant or defendants in execution,
the court shall order the same to be taken and sold by the officers upon execution,
as in other cases.
Sec. 249. [Payment of money.]—In cases where the garnishee, in an
swering such interrogatories, shall disclose that he is indebted to the defendant in
execution the court shall order the garnishee to pay over the amount found to be
due from the said garnishee to the defendant in execution, which amount shall be
collected by execution, as in other cases, as near as may be, and such amount,
when paid or collected, shall be credited on the original judgment, and the gar
nishee shall be credited for the amount so paid or collected.
CHAPTER IV. —INJUNCTION.
Sec. 250. [Denned.] —The injunction provided by this code, is a command to
refrain from a particular act. It may be the final judgment in an action, or may
be allowed as a provisional remedy ; and when so allowed it shall be by order.
The writ of injunction is abolished.
Sec. 251. [Causes for allowance.] —When it appears by the petition that
-the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof,
consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the commission
or continuance of which during the litigation would produce great or irrepara
ble injury to the plaintiff, or when, during the litigation, it appears that the de
fendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be
done, some act in violation of the plaintiff's rights respecting the subject of the
action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction
may be granted to restrain such act. It may also be granted in any case where
it is specially authorized by statute.
Sec. 252. [By whom and when granted.] —The injunction may be granted
at the time of commencing the action, or at any time afterward, before judgment,
by the supreme court or any judge thereof, the district court or any judge thereof,
or, in the absence from the county of said judges, by the probate judge thereof,
Sec. 247. 14 Neb. 214.
upon it appearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, by the affidavit of the plaint
iff or his agent, that the plaintiff is entitled thereto.
Sec. 258. [Preliminary hearing.]—If the court or judge deem it proper
that the defendant, or any party to the suit, should be heard before granting the
injunction, it may direct a reasonable notice to be given to such party to attend
for such purpose at a specified time and place, and may, in the meantime, restrain'
euchparty.
Sec. 254. [Notice.] —An injunction shall not be granted against a party who
has answered, unless upon notice ; but such party may be restrained, until the
decision of the application for an injunction.
Sec. 255. [Bond.] —No injunction, unless provided by special statute, shall
operate, until the party obtaining tha same shall give an undertaking, executed
by one or more sufficent sureties, to be approved by the clerk of the court granting
such injunction, in an amount to be fixed by the court or judge allowing the same,
to secure to the party enjoined the damages he may sustain, if it be finally decided
that the injunction ought not to have been granted.
, Sec. 256. [Order—Contents.] —The order of injunction shall be addressed
; to the party enjoined, shall state the injunction, and shall be issued by the clerk.
j "Where the injunction is allowed at the commencement of the action, the clerk
I shall endorse upon the summons, "injunction allowed," and it shall not be nec
essary to issue the order of injunction ; nor shall it be necessary to issue the same,
where notice of the application therefor has been given to the party enjoined.
The service of the summons so endorsed, or the notice of the application for an
injunction, shall be notice of its allowance.
Sec. 257. [Order—Service.] —Where the injunction is allowed during the
litigation, and without notice of the application therefor, the order of injunction
Bhall be issued, and the sheriff forthwith serve the same upon each party
enjoined, in the manner prescribed for serving a summons, and make return
thereof, without delay.
SEC. 258. [Takes effect, when.]—An injunction binds the party, from the
time he has notice thereof, and the undertaking required by the applicant therefor
is executed.
Sec. 259. [Several applications.]— No injunction shall be granted by a
{"udge, after a motion therefor has been overruled on the merits of the application,
»y his court ; and where it has been refused by the court in which the action is
brought, or a judge thereof, it shall not be granted to the same applicant by a
eourt of inferior jurisdiction or any judge thereof.
SEC. 260. [Enforcement—Breach.]—An injunction granted by a judge
tnay be enforced as the act of the court. Disobedience of an injunction may be
punished as a contempt by the court, or by any judge who might have granted it
ix. vacation. An attachment may be issued by the court or judge, upon being
satisfied by affidavit of the breach of the injunction, against the party guilty of
the same ; and he may be required, in the discretion of the court or judge, to pay
a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars, for the use of the county, to make im
mediate restitution to the party injured, and give further security to obey the
injunction ; or, in default thereof, he may be committed to close custody, until he
shall fully comply with such requirement, or be otherwise legally discharged.
SEC. 261. [Additional security.]— A party enjoined may, at any time
before judgment, upon reasonable notice to the party who has obtained the
injunction, move the court for additional security; and if it appear that the
surety in the undertaking has removed from the state, or is insufficient, the
court may vacate the injunction, unless in a reasonable time sufficient security
be given.
SEC. 262. [Affidavits on hearing.]—On the hearing of an application for
an injunetion, each party may read affidavits. All affidavits shall be filed.
SEC. 263. [Motion to vacate—Order recorded.]—If the injunction b&
granted without notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply,
upon notice, to the court in which the action is brought, or any judge thereof, to
vacate or modify the same. The application may be made upon the petition and
affidavits upon which the injunction is granted, or upon affidavits on the part of
the party enjoined, with or without answer. The order of the judge allowing, dis
solving or modifying an injunction, shall be returned to the office of the clerk of
the court in which the action is brought, and recorded and obeyed, as if made by
the court.
Sec. 264. [Same—Affidavits—Evidence.]— If the application be made
upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may
oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which the
injunction was granted.
Sec. 265. [Injunction on counter-claim.] —A defendant may obtain an
injunction upon an answer in the nature of a counter-claim. He shall proceed in
the manner prescribed in this chapter.
CHAPTER V. —RECEIVERS.
Seo. 266. [Causes for appointment.]—A receiver may be appointed by
the supreme court, or the district court, or by the judge of either, in the following
cases: First. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of
property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim, or between
partners or others jointly owning or interested in any property or fund, on the ap(ilication
of any party to the suit, when the property or fund is in danger of being
ost, removed or materially injured. Second. In an action for the foreclosure of m
mortgage, when the mortgaged property is in danger of being lost, removed or
materially injured, or is probably insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt.
Third. After judgment, or decree to carry the same into execution, or to dispose
of the property according^ to the decree or judgment, or to preserve it during the
pendency of an appeal. Fowrth. In all cases provided for by special statutes.
Fifth. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been appointed by the
usages of courts of equity.
Sec. 267. [Notice of application.]—No receiver shall be appointed ex
cept in a suit actually commenced and pending, and after notice to all parties to
•be affected thereby, of the time and place of the application, the names ot the
proposed receiver and of his proposed sureties, and of the proposed sureties of toe
applicant. Such notice shall state upon what papers the apphcation is based, and
be served upon the adverse party, or his solicitor, at least five dayB before the pro
posed hearing, and one additional day for every thirty miles of travel from the
place of serving the notice to the place where the application is to be made, by the
usually traveled route, or shall be published in the same manner as notices of the
pendency of suits to non-resident defendants.
Sec. 268. [Sheriff to take possession of property.] —Should the de
lay occasioned by the giving the notice provided for in the last preceding section
be hazardous to the rights of any party, the court or judge may, by order, direct
the sheriff of the county in which such action is pending, to take temporary pos
session of the property, and shall appoint an early day for the hearing of the ap
plication, and if at such hearing the application is refused, restitution shall be
made of the property to the party from whom the same was taken.
Sec. 269. [Bond.]— Every order appointing a receiver shall require the
applicant to give a bond conditioned to pay all damages which the other parties to
the suit, or any of them, may sustain by reason ot the appointment of a receiver
in case it shall be finally decided that the order ought not to have been granted,
and shall also require the receiver to give a bond conditioned to faithfully dis
charge his duties as receiver and obey all orders of the court. The said bondi
shall each run to the defendant, and all adverse parties in interest and be for the
use of any party to the suit, and be in a penal sum equal to double the value of
the property in question, and be executed by two or more sureties to be approved
by the court or judge making the appointment, and be filed in the office of the
clerk of the district court ; nor shall the same be considered executed until they
are so filed. [Amended 1875, 86. Took effect Feb. 25, 1875.]
Sec. 270. [Appointment— When.]—If a plaintiff shall desire the ap
pointment of a receiver at the commencement of the action, he shall pray such
appointment in his petition. If the occasion for a receiver Bhall arise while the
suit is pending, the application shall be made by a petition entitled in the cause,
signed and verified by the applicant, and setting forth the facts and circumstances
making such appointment necessary or proper.
Sec. 271. [Objections to receiver or sureties.]— Any party to the suit
may, upon the hearing of the application, show, by affidavit or otherwise, objec
tions to the proposed sureties, and to the proposed receiver, and what is the value
of the property to be taken possession of, and that a receiver ought not to be
appointed. He may also nominate a person to be receiver, giving at the same
time the names of his proposed sureties. No person shall be appointed receiver
who is party, solicitor, counsel, or in any manner interested in the suit.
Sec. 272. [Order—Contents—Directions.]— Every order appointing a
receiver shall contain special directions in respect to its powers and duties,
and 'upon application of any party to the suit, after due notice thereof,
such further directions may be made in that behalf by the court or judge as may
in the further progress of the cause become proper.
SEC. 278. [How considered.]—Every receiver shall be considered the re
ceiver of any party to the suit, and no others.
Sec. 274. [Appointment without notice void.]—Every order appoint
ing a receiver without the notice provided for herein, shall be void, and every such
order heretofore made, under which the appointee has not possessed himself of the
property in question, shall be suspended until an order shall have been made, and
the bonds executed and filed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 275. [Decree—Reference—Appeal.]—When a decree shall be ren
dered in a suit in which a receiver has been appointed, and such decree shall not
finally determine the rights of the parties, any one of them may apply to the court
for the possession of the property and proceeds thereof in the receiver's hands.
If such application be resisted, the matter may be referred to a master, to take
and report to the court the testimony of the parties. And on the coming in of
said report, the court shall, by its order, award the possession of the property and
the proceeds thereof to the party entitled thereto ; and thereupon the receiver
shall surrender the property and the proceeds thereof to such party. All orders
appointing receivers, giving them further directions and disposing of the property,
may be appealed to the supreme court in the same manner aa final orders and
decrees.
Sec. 276. [Contempt—Furtherorder.]—Wheneverintheexercise of their
authority, the court or judge shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money,
or other things, and the order is disobeyed, the court or judge in addition to pun
ishing such disobedience as for contempt may make an order requiring the sheriff
to take the money or thing, and deposit or deliver it, in conformity with the di
rection of the court or judge. [Amended 1871, 112. Took effect March 4, 1871.
G. S. 571.1
TITLE IX.—Proceedings Before the Court.
CHAPTER I.—ISSUE.
Seo. 277. [How formed.]— Issues arise on the pleadings where a fact or
conclusion of law is maintained by one party and controverted by the other.
They are of two kinds : First . Of law. Second. Of fact.
Sec. 278. [Of fact, how formed.]—An issue of fact arises : First. Upon a
material allegation in the petition, denied by the answer. Second. Upon a Bet-off
or counter-claim presented in the answer and denied by the reply. Third. Uponmaterial
new matter in the answer or reply, which shall be considered as contro
verted by the opposite party without further pleading.
CHAPTER II. —TRIAL.
Sec. 279. [Defined.]—A trial is a judicial examination of the issues, whether
of law or of fact, in an action.
Sec. 280. [Issues, how tried.]— Issues of law must be tried by the court,
unless referred as provided in section two hundred and ninety-eight. Issues of
fact arising in actions for the recovery of money, or of specific real or personal
property, shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or a reference be
ordered as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 281. [Same.] —All other issues of fact shall be tried by the court, sub
ject to its power to order any issue or issues to be tried by a jury, or referred as
provided in this code.
Sec. 281 a. [Actions, when triable.]— Sec. 9. Actions shall be triable
at the first term .of the court, after the issues therein, by the times fixed for
pleading, are, or should have been made up ; andjwhen, by the times fixed for plead
ing, the issues are, or should have been made up during a term, such action
shall be triable at that term. When the issues are, or should have been, made
up, either before or during a term of court, but after the period for preparing the
trial docket of such term, the clerk shall place such actions on the trial docket of
that term. [G. S. 718.1
TRIALS BT JURY.
Sec. 282. [Formation of jury.]—The general mode of summoning, im
paneling, challenging, and swearing the jury, is not changed by this code. [R. S.
441. G. S. 572.]
Sec. 288. [Order of proceedings.! —When the jury has been sworn the
trial shall proceed in the following order, unless the court for special reasons oth
erwise direct : First. The plaintiff must briefly state his claim, and may briefly
state the evidence by which he expects to sustain it. Second. The defendant must
then briefly state his defense and may briefly state the evidence he expects to
offer in support of it. Third. The party who would be defeated if no evidence
were given on either side, must first produce his evidence ; the adverse party will
then produce his evidence. Fourth. The parties will then be confined to rebutting
evidence, unless the court for good reasons in furtherance of justice, permits them
to offer evidence in their original case. Fifth. When the evidence is concluded
either party may request instructions to the jury on points of law, which shall be
given or refused by the court, which instructions shall be reduced to writing,
if either party require it. Sixth. The parties may then submit or argue the case
to the jury. In the argument, the party required first to produce his evidence
shall have the opening and conclusion. If several defendants having separate
defenses appear by different counsel, the court shall arrange their relative order.
Seventh. The court may again charge the jury after the argument is concluded.
[Id. G.S. 578.]
Sec. 284. [View of property or place.] —Whenever, in the opinion of the
court, it is proper for the jury to have a view of property which is the subject
of litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order them
to be conducted in a body under the charge of an officer, to the place, which shall
be shown to them by some person appointed by the court for that purpose. While
the jury are thus absent, no person other than the person so appointed shall speak
to them on any subject connected with the trial.
Sbo. 286. [Deliberation—Conduct.] —When the case is finally submitted
to the jury, they may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they retire,
they must be kept together in some convenient place, under the charge of an offi
cer until they agree upon a verdict, or are discharged by the court, subject to the
discretion of the court to permit them to separate temporarily at night and at their
meals. The officer having them under his charge shall not suffer any communi
cation to be made to them, or make any himself, except to ask them if they have
agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the court, and he shall not, before
their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their delibera
tions or the verdict agreed upon.
Sec. 286. [Separation during trial.] —If the jury are permitted to sepa
rate either during the trial, or after the case is submitted to them, they shall be ad
monished by the court that it is their duty not to converse with or suffer them
selves to be addressed by any other person, on the subject of the trial, and that it
is their duty not to form or express any opinion thereon, until the cause is finally
submitted to them.
Sec. 287. [Instruction after retiring.]—After the jury have retired for
deliberation, if there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the testi
mony, or if they desire to be informed as to any part of the law arising in the case,
they may request the officer to conduct them to the court, where the information
upon the point of law shall be given, and the court may give its recollection as to
the testimony on the point in dispute, in presence of or after notice to the parties
or their counsel.
Sec. 288. [Discharge of,jury.]—The jury may be discharged by the oourt
on account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity requiring their
discharge, or by consent, of both parties, or after they have been kept together
until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability of their agreeing.
Sec. 289. [Second trial, when.] —In all cases where the jury are dis
charged during the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, it may be tried
again immediately or at a future time, as the court may direct.
THE VERDICT.
SEC. 290. [Jury polled.] —When the jury have agreed upon their verdict,
they must be conducted into court, their names called by the clerk, and the ver
dict rendered by the foreman. When the verdict is announced, either party may
require the jury to be polled, which is done by the clerk asking each juror if it is
his verdict. If any one answers in the negative, the jury must again be sent out
for further deliberation.
Sec. 291. [Requisites.] —The verdict shall be written, signed by the fore
man, and read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry made whether it is their
verdict. If any juror disagree, the jury must be sent out again ; but if no dis
agreement be expressed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled, the ver
dict is complete and the jury discharged from the case. If, however, the verdict
be defective in form only, the same may, with the assent of the jury before they
are discharged, be corrected by the court.
Sec. 292. [General—Special.] —The verdict of a jury is either general
or special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce, generally,
upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant.. A
special verdict is that by which the jury finds the facts only. It must present the
facts as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them ; and
they must be so presented as that nothing remains to the court but to draw from
them conclusions of law.
Sec. 298. [Rendition—Special verdict— Record.]—In every action
for the recovery of money only, or specific real property, the jury, in their dis
cretion, may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases the court may
direct the jury to find a speeial verdict, in writing, upon all or any of the issues ;
and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon
particular questions of fact to be stated in writing, and may direct a written find
ing thereon. The special verdict or finding must be filed with the clerk and en
tered on the journal.
! Sec. 294. [Special finding controls general.] —When the special
finding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former controls the lat
ter, and the court may give judgment accordingly.
Sbo. 295. [Amount of recovery— Assessment.]—When by the verdict
either party is entitled to recover money of the adverse narty, the jury in their
verdict must assess the amount of recovery.
TRIAL BY THE COURT.
Sec. 296. [Jury trial, how waived.]—The trial by jury may be waived
by the parties in actions arising on contract, and with the assent of the court, in
other actions, in the following manner : First. By the consent of the party ap
pearing, when the other party fails to appear at the trial by himself or attorney.
Second. By written consent in person, or by attorney, filed with the clerk. Third.
By oral consent in open court entered on the journal.
Sec. 297. [Finding.]—Upon the trial of questions of fact by the court, it
shall not be necessary for the court to state its finding, except, generally, for
the plaintiff or defendant, unless one of the parties request it, with the v»ew of ex
cepting to the decision of the court upon the questions of law involved in the trial ;
in which case the court shall state in writing the conclusions of fact found, separ
ately from the conclusions of law.
TRIAL BY REFEREES.
Sec. 298. [By consent of parties.] —All or any of the issues in the action,,
whether of fact or law, or both, may be referred, upon the written consent of the
parties, or upon their oral consent in court entered upon the journal.
Sec. 299. [By order of court.] —When the parties do not consent, the
court may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference
in either of the following cases : First. When the trial of an issue of fact shall
require the examination of mutual accounts, or where the account is on one
side only, and it shall he made to appear to the court that it is necessary that
the party on the other side should be examined as a witness to prove the
account; in which cases the referees may.be directed to hear and report upon
the whole issue, or upon any specific question of fact involved therein. Second.
Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information of the
court before judgment, in cases which may be determined by the court, or
for carrying a judgment into effect. Third. Where a question of fact, other
than upon the pleadings, shall arise upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of
an action.
Sec. 800. [How conducted— Duties — Powers.]— The trial before
referees is conducted in the same manner as a trial by the court. They have the
same power to summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses, to administer all
necessary oaths in the trial of the case, and to grant adjournments, as the court
upon such trial. They must state the facts found and the conclusions of law,
separately, and their decision must be given, and may be excepted to and reviewed
in like manner. The report of the referees upon the whole issue, stands as the
decision of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner
as if the action had been tried hy the court. When the reference is to report the
facts, the report has the effect of a special verdict.
Seo. 801. [Referees — How chosen.] — In all cases of reference, the
parties, except when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person
or persons, not exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered accordingly ;
and, if the parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more referees, not
exceeding three, who shall be free from exception.
Sec. 802. [Reference by county court.] —A reference as provided in
this chapter cannot be ordered hy a probate court, except by consent of parties to
the reference and referees.
SEC. 808. [Exceptions.]— It shall be the duty of the referees to sign any
true exceptions taken to any order or decision by them made in the case, and
return the same with their report to the court making the reference.
Sec. 304. [Reference in vacation.] —A judge in vacation, upon the
written consent of the parties, may make any order of reference which the court,
of which he is a member, could make in term time. In such case, the order of
reference shall be made on the written agreement of the parties to refer, and shall
be filed with the clerk of the court, with the other papers in the case.
Seo. 805. [Referee—Oath.] —The referees must be sworn or affirmed well
and faithfully to hear and examine the cause, and to make a just and true report
therein according to the best of their understanding. The oath may be adminis
tered by any person authorized to take depositions.
Sec. 806. [Same—Compensation.] —The refereeB shall be allowed such
compensation for their services as the court may deem just and proper, which
exceptions.
Sec. 307. [Defined.] —An exception^ an objection taken to a decision of
the court upon a matter of law.
Sec. 308. [When taken.] —The party objecting to the decision must except
at the time the decision is made, and time may be given to reduce the same to
writing as hereinafter provided. [Amended 1877, 17. Took effect June 1, 1877.]
Sec. 809. [Form.] —No particular form of exception is required. The excep*
tion must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary to explain it,
and no more, and the whole as briefly as possible.
Sec. 310. [How taken—Record.] —Where the decision objected to is
entered on the record, and the grounds of objection appear in the entry, the
exception may be taken by the party causing to be noted, at the end of the decision,
that ne excepts.
Sec. 811. [Bill of exceptions.]—When the decision is not entered on the
record or the grounds of objection do not sufficiently appear in the entry, the par
ty excepting must reduce his exceptions to writing within fifteen (15) days, or in
such time as the court may direct, not exceeding forty (40) days from the adjourn
ment of the court sine die, and submit the same to the adverse party or his attor
ney of record for examination and amendment if desired. Such draft must con
tain all the exceptions taken upon which the party relies. Within ten days after
such submission the adverse party may propose amendments thereto and shall
return said bill with his proposed amendments to the other party, or his attorney
of record. The bill and proposed amendments must, within ten days thereafter,
be presented by the party seeking the settlement of the bill to the judge who
heard or tried the case, upon five (5) days notice to the adverse party, or his at
torney of record, at which time the judge shall settle the bill of exceptions. If no
amendments are proposed, or if proposed and allowed, the proposed bill may be
presented with the amendments, if any, to the judge for settlement without notice
to the adverse party or his attorney of record. When settled, the bill must be
signed by the judge with his certificate to the effect that the same is allowed. In
case of the death of the judge, or when it is shown by affidavit that the judge is
prevented by sickness, or absence from his district, as well as in cases where the
parties interested shall agree upon the bill of exceptions (and shall have attached
a written stipulation to that effect to the bill), it shall be the duty of the clerk to
settle and sign the bill in the same manner as the judge is by this act required to
do ; and shall thereupon be filed with the papers in the case, and have the same
force and effect as though signed by the court. In cases where a party seeking to
obtain the allowance of a bill of exceptions has used due diligence in that behalf,
but has failed to secure the settlement and allowance of the same as herein re
quired, it shall be competent for the judge who tried the cause, upon due showing
of diligence and not otherwise, to extend the time herein allowed, but not beyond
forty days additional to that herein provided, making such specific directions in
that behalf as shall seem just to all parties. [Amended and took effect Mar. 1, 1881.]
Sec. 311 a. [Act applies to all cases.] —Sec. 2. This act shall apply to
all cases hereafter decided as well as all that have been already adjudicated by
final order or judgment ; and that the provisions of this act shall apply to actions
in equity sought to be appealed to the supreme court, under the act of March 8,
1878, entitled "An act to provide for appeals in actions in equity " [1881 § 2, 204.]
Sec. 812. [Disregarded, when.] —No exception shall be regarded, unless
it is material, and prejudicial to the substantial rights of the party excepting.
Sec. 818. [Withdrawal from files.] —Exceptions taken to the decision
of any court of record may, by leave of such court, be wittidrawn from the files
by the party taking the same, at any time before proceedings in error are com
menced, and before the exceptions are recorded.
NEW TRIAL.
Sec. 814. [Defined—Grounds for allowance.] —A new trial is a re-ex
amination in the same court of an issue of fact after a verdict by a jury, report of
a referee, or a decision by the court. The former verdict, report or decision shall
be vacated, and a new trial granted on the application of the party aggrieved, for
any of the following causes affecting materially the substantial rights of such
party : First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, referee or pre
vailing party, or any order of the court, or referee, or abuse of discretion, by
which the party was prevented from having a fair trial. Second. Misconduct of
the jury or prevailing party. Third. Accident or surprise, which ordinary pru
dence could not have guarded against. Fourth. Excessive damages, appearing to
have been given under the influence of passion or prejudice. Fifth. Error in the
assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too large or too small, where the
action is upon a contract, or for the injury or detention of property. Sixth. That
the verdict, report or decision is not sustained by sufficient evidence, or is contrary
to law. Seventh. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party applying,
which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced at the
trial. Eighth. Error of law occuring at the trial, and excepted to by the party
making the application.
SEC. 815. [Not granted—Smallness of damages.]—A new trial shall
not be granted on account of the smallness of damages in an action for an injury
to the person or reputation, nor any other action where the damages shall equal
the actual pecuniary injury sustained.
Sec. 816. [Application for, when made.]— The application for a new
trial must be made at the term the verdict, report or decision is rendered, and,
except for the cause of newly discovered evidence material for the party applying,
which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced at
the trial, shall be within three days after the verdict or decision was rendered,
unless unavoidably prevented.
Sec. 817. [Same—Upon written motion.] —The application must be
by motion upon written grounds, filed at the time of making the motion. It shall
be sufficient however in assigning the grounds of the motion to assign the same
in the language of the statute and without further or other particularity. The
causes enumerated in subdivisions 2, 8, and 7, of section 814, must be sustained
by affidavits showing their truth, and may be controverted by affidavits. [Amen
ded Mar. 1. Took effect June 1, 1881. Laws p. 201.]
Sec. 318. [Newly discovered grounds.] —Where the grounds for a new
trial could not, with reasonable diligence, have been discovered before, but are
• discovered after the term at which the verdict, report of referee, or decision was
rendered or made, the application may be made by petition filed as in other cases ;
on which a summons shall issue, be returnable and served, or publication made,
as prescribed in section seventy-nine. The facts stated in the petition shall be
considered as denied without answer, and if the service shall be complete in vaca
tion, the case shall be heard and summarily decided at the ensuing term. The
case shall be placed on the trial docket, and the witnesses shall be examined in
open court, or their depositions taken as in other cases, but no such petition shall
be filed more than one year after the final judgment was rendered.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 819. [Rate of damages.] —Whenever damages are recoverable, the
plaintiff may claim and recover any rate of damages to which he may be entitled
for the cause of action established.
Sec. 820. [Provisions applicable—Trial by court or jury.]—The
provisions of this title respecting trials by jury, apply, so far as they are in their
nature applicable, to trials by the court.
TIME OF TRIAL.
Sec. 821. [Clerk's books.] —The clerk of the district court shall keep at
least eight books, to be called the appearance docket, the trial docket, the journal,
the complete record, the execution docket, the fee book, the general index, and
the judgment record. [Amended to take effect Sept. 1, 1878. G. S. 579, 718.]
Sec. 822. [Same—Entries.] —On the appearance docket, he Bhall enter all
actions in the order in which they were brought, the date of the summons, the
time of the return thereof by the officer, and his return thereon, the time of
filing the petition, and all subsequent pleadings. On the general index he shall
enter the names of the parties to every suit, both direct and inverse, with the
page and book where all proceedings in such action may be found. The judg
ment record shall contain the judgment debtor and the judgment creditor,
arranged alphabetically, the date of the judgment, the amount of the same, and
the amount of costs, with the page and book where the same may be found. Tran
scripts of judgments from justices of the peace, or courts of probate, filed in the
district court shall be entered upon said judgment record ; and whenever any
judgment is paid off and discharged, the clerk shall enter such fact upon the
judgment record in a column provided for that purpose. [Id.]
Sec. 823. [Trial docket—Judgment by default—Frivolous de
murrer.] —The trial docket shall be made out by the clerk of the court at least
twelve days before the first day of each term of the court ; and the actions shall
be set for particular days in the order in which the issues were made up, whether
of law or of fact, and so arranged that the cases set for each day shall be tried
as nearly as may be on that day. For the purpose of arranging said docket, an
issue shall be considered as made up when either party is in default of a pleading.
If the defendant fails to answer or demur, the cause, for the purpose of this sec
tion shall be deemed to be at issue upon questions of fact, but in every such case
the plaintiff may move for and take such judgment as he is entitled to, on the
defendant's default, on or after the day on which said action shall be set for trial.
No witnesses shall be subpoenaed in any case while the cause stands upon issue of
law ; and whenever the court shall regard the demurrer in any case as frivolous,
and put in for delay only, no leave to answer or reply shall be given, unless upon
Eayment of all costs then accrued in the action ; Provided, That when the nam-
erof actions to be docketed shall exceed three hundred the judge or judges of
the district court for the county may by rule or order classify them in such man
ner as they may deem expedient, and cause them to be placed according to such
classification upon different dockets ; and the respective dockets may be proceeded
with and causes thereon be tried, heard or otherwise disposed of, concurrently by
one or more of the judges; and provision may be made by rule of court that
issues of fact shall not do for trial at any term when the number of pending
actions shall exceed three hundred, except upon such previous notice of trial as
may be prescribed thereby. [Amended 1887, chap. 94. Took effect April 4, 1887.]
Sec. 824. [Cases tried in order.]—The trial of an issue of fact, and the
assessment of damages in any case, shall be in the order in which they are placed
on the trial docket, unless, by consent of the parties, or the order of the court,
they are continued, or placed at the heel of the docket, or temporarily postponed.
The time of hearing all other cases shall be in the order in which they are placed
on the docket, unless the court in its discretion shall otherwise direct. The court
may in its discretion hear at any time a motion ; and may by rule prescribe the
time for hearing motions, and provide for dismissing actions without prejudice
for want of prosecution. [Id.]
Secs. 825-826. [Repealed. Laws 1867, 12th sess. ty., page 7.]
Sec. 827. [Bar docket.] —The clerk shall make out a copy of the trial
docket and other dockets, if any, for the use of the bar before the first day of the
term of court. [Amended 1887, chap. 94.1
Sec. 827 a. [Same.]—The clerk shall make out a copv of the dockets for the'
use of the bar before the first day of the term of court. [Id.]
TITLE X.—Evidence.
COMPETENCY OF WITNESSES.
Sec. 828. [Witnesses—Competent—Incompetent.] — Every human
being of sufficient capacity to understand the obligation of an oath, is a compe
tent witness in all cases, civil and criminal, except as otherwise herein declared.
The following persons shall be incompetent to testify : First. Persons of unsound
mind at the time of their production. Second. Indians and negroes who appear
incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting wbich they are
examined, or of relating them intelligently and truly. Third. Husband and
wife, concerning any communication made by one to the other during marriage,
whether called as a witness while that relation subsists or afterward. Fourth. An
attorney, concerning any communication made to him by his client in that relation
or his advice thereon, without the client's consent in open court or in writing pro
duced in court. Fifth. A clergyman or priest, concerning any confession made to
him in his professional character in the course of discipline enjoined by the church
to which he belongs, without the consent of the person making the confession.
Sec. 829. [Same.] —No person having a direct legal interest in the result
of any civil action or proceeding, when the adverse party is the representa
tive of a deceased person, shall be permitted to testify to any transaction or
conversation had between the deceased person and the witness, unless the
evidence of the deceased person shall have been taken and read in evidence by
the adverse party in regard to such transaction or conversation, or unless such
representative shall have introduced a witness who shall have testified in re
gard to such transaction or conversation, in which case the person having such
direct legal interest may be examined in regard to the -facts testified to by such
-deceased person or such witness, but shall not be permitted to further testify in
regard to such transaction or conversation. [Amended 1883, chap. LXXX1IL]
Sec. 830. [Credibility.] —Facts which have heretofore caused the exclu
sion of testimony, may still be shown for the purpose of lessening its credibility.
Sec. 331. [Husband and wife.] —The husband can in no case be a wit
ness against the wife, nor the wife against the husband, except in a criminal pro
ceeding for a crime committed by the one against the other, but they may in all
criminal prosecutions be witnesses for each other.
Sec. 332. [Same.] —Neither husband nor wife can be examined in any case
as to any communication made by the one to the other while married, nor shall
they, after the marriage relation ceases, be permitted to reveal, in testimony,
any such communication made while the marriage subsisted.
Seo. 888. [Professional communications.] — No practicing attorney,
counsellor, physician, surgeon, minister" of the gospel, or priest of any denomina
tion shall be allowed, in giving testimony, to disclose any confidential communi
cation, properly intrusted to mm in his professional capacity, and necessary and
proper to enable him to discharge the functions of his office according to the usual
course of practice or discipline.
Sec. 834. [Same—Waiver.] —The prohibitions in the preceding sections do
not apply to cases where the party in whose favor the respective provisions are
enacted waives the rights thereby conferred.
Sec. 885. [Public officers.] —A public officer cannot be examined as to
communications made to him in official confidence, when the public interests
would suffer by the disclosure.
SEC. 886. [Civil liability.] —A witness is not excused from answering a ques
tion upon the mere ground that he would be thereby subjected to a civil liability.
Sec. 837. [Criminal liability—Disgrace.] —But when the matter sought
to be elicited would tend to render him criminally liable, or to expose him to
public ignominy, he is not compelled to answer, except as provided in the next section.
Sec. 888. [Previous conviction, how proved.]—A witness may be
interrogated as to his previous conviction for a felony. But no other proof of such
conviction is competent except the record thereof.
Sec. 889. [Whole matter given.] —"When part of an act, declaration,
conversation, or writing, is given in evidence by one party, the whole on the same
subject may be inquired into by the other ; thuB when a letter is read, all other let
ters on the same subject between the parties may be given. And when a
detached act, declaration, conversation or writing, is given in evidence, any other
act, declaration or writing, which is necessary to make it fully understood, or to
explain the same, may also be given in evidence.
SEC. 840. [Writing controls printed matter.]—When an instrument
consists partly of written and partly of printed form, the former controls the lat
ter, where the two are inconsistent.
SEC. 841. [Construction of agreements.]—When the terms of an agree
ment have been intended in a different sense by the parties to it, that sense is to
prevail against either party in which he had reason to suppose the other under
stood it.
Sec. 842. [Works of science and art.] — Historical works, books of
science or art, and published maps or charts, when made by persons indifferent
between the parties, are presumptive evidence of facts of general notoriety or
interest.
SEC. 843. [Subscribing witness absent—Proof of execution.]—
When a subscribing witness is absent from the county in which the action is pend-
ing, denies, or does not recollect the execution of the instrument to which his
name is subscribed as such witness, its execution may be proved by other evi
dence. [E. 8. 451. Amended to take effect Feb. 18, 1878. G. 8. 688.]
Sec. 844. [Handwriting.] —Evidence respecting handwriting may be given
by comparisons made, by experts or by the jury, with writings of the same person
which are proved to be genuine.
Sec. 845. [Writings of deceased persons.]—The entries and other
writings of a person deceased, made at or near the time of the transaction, and
in a position to know the facts therein stated, are presumptive evidence of such
facts, when the entry was made against the interest of the person so making it or
when made in a professional capacity or in the ordinary course of professional
conduct, or when made in the performance of a duty specially enjoined by law.
Sec. 846. [Books of account.1 —Books of account, containing charges by
one party against the other, made in the ordinary course of business, are receiv
able in evidence only under the following circumstances, subject to all just ex
ceptions as to their credibility : First. The books must show a continuous deal
ing with persons generally, or several items of charges at different times against
the other party, in the same book. Second. It must be shown, by the party'*
oath, or otherwise, that they are his books of original entries. Third. It must be
shown, in like manner, that the charges were made at or near the time of the
transaction therein entered, unless satisfactory reasons appear for not making
such proof. Fourth. The charges must also be verified by the party or the clerk
who made the entries, to the effect that they believe them just and true, or a suffi
cient reason must be given why the verification is not made.
Sec. 847. [Private writing.] —Every private writing, except a last will and
testament, after being acknowledged or proved and certified in the manner pre
scribed for the proof or acknowledgment of conveyances of real property, may be
read in evidence without further proof.
Sec.348. [Judges.]—The judge of the court is a competent witness for either
party, and may be sworn upon the trial. But in such case it is in his discretion
to order the trial to be postponed or suspended, and to take place before another
judge.
Sec. 849. [Notarial protest.]— The usual protest by a notary public, with-
'out proof of his signature or notarial seal, is evidenceof the dishonor and noticeof
a bill of exchange or promissory note.
MEANS OF PRODUCING WITNESSES.
Sec. 850. [Subpoena—Service.]— The clerks of the several courts and
judges of the probate courts shall, on application of any person having a cause or
any matter pending in court, issue a subpoena for witnesses under the seal of the
court, inserting all the names required by the applicant in one subpoena, which
may be served by any person not interested in the action, or by the sheriff, coro
ner, or constable ; but when served by any person other than a public officer,
proof of service shall be shown by affidavit ; but no costB of serving the same
shall be allowed, except when served by an officer.
Sec. 851. [Same—Contents.] —The subpoena shall be directed to the per
son therein named, requiring him to attend at a particular time and place, to tes
tify as a witness ; and it may contain a clause, directing a witness to bring with
him any book, writing, or other thing under his control, which he is bound by law
to produce as evidence.
Sec. 352. [Same—To give deposition.] —When the attendance of a wit
ness before any officer authorized to take depositions is required, the subpoena
shall be issued by sucb officer.
Sec. 368. [Same—How served.] —The subpoena shall be served either by
reading or by copy delivered to the witness or left at his usual place of residence ;
but such copy need not contain the name of any other witness.
Sec. 854. [Witness—Obligation to attend triaLJ — A. witness shall
not be obliged to attend for examination on the trial of a civil action, except in
the county of his residence, nor to attend to give his deposition out of the county
where he resides, or where he may be when the subpoena is served upon him.
Sec. 855. [Same—Demand of fees.] —A witness may demand his trav
eling fees, and fee for one days attendance, when the subpoena is served upon
him, and if the same be not paid, the witness shall not he obliged to obey the
subpoena. The fact of such demand and non-payment shall be stated in the re
turn.
Sec. 856. [Same—Contempt.] —Disobedience of a subpoena, or a refusal
to be sworn, or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe a deposition, when lawfully
ordered, may be punished as a contempt of the court or officer by whom his at
tendance or testimony is required.
Sec. 857. [Same—Attachment for contempt.] —When a witness fails
to attend in obedience to a subpoena, (except in case or a demand and failure to
pay his fees), the court or officer before whom his attendance is required, may is
sue an attachment to the sheriff, coroner, or constable of the county, command
ing him to arrest and bring the person therein named before the court or officer,
at a time and place to be fixed in the attachment, to give his testimony, and an
swer for the contempt. If the attachment be not for immediately bringing the
witness before the court or officer, a sum may be fixed in which the witness may
give an undertaking with surety for his appearance. Such sum shall be endorsed
on the back of the attachment, and if no sum is so fixed and endorsed, it shall be>
one hundred dollars. If the witness be not personally served, the court may, by
a rule, order him to show cause why an attachment should not issue against him.
Sec. 858. [Same—Punishment.]— The punishment for the contempt
mentioned in section three hundred and fifty-six, shall be as follows : When the
witness fails to attend in obedience to the subpoena, (except in case of a demand
and failure to pay his fees), the court or officer may fine the witness in a sumnot ex
ceeding fifty dollars. In other cases, the court or officer mayfine the witness in a
sum not exceeding fifty dollars nor less than five dollars, or may imprison him in
the county jail, there to remain until he shall submit to be sworn, to testify, or
.give his deposition. The fine imposed by the court shall be paid into the county
treasury, and that imposed by the officer shall be for the use of the party for
whom the witness was subpoenaed. The witness shall also be liable to the party
injured, for any damages occasioned by his failure to attend, or his refusal to be
sworn, to testify, or give his deposition.
Sec. 359. [Same—Imprisonment—Release.]— A witness so imprisoned
by an officer before whom his deposition is being taken, may apply to a judge of
the supreme court, district court, or probate court, who shall have power to dis
charge him if it appear that his imprisonment is illegal.
Sec. 860. [Attachment—Commitment— Contents.]—Every attach
ment for the arrest, or order of commitment to prison of awitnesB by a court oroffi-
•cer, pursuant to this chapter, must be under the seal of the court or officer, if he have
an official seal, and must specify particularly the cause of the arrest or com
mitment; and if the commitment be for refusing to answer a question, such
question must be stated in the order. Such order of commitment may be di
rected to the sheriff, coroner or any constable of the county where such witness
resides or may be at the time, and shall be executed by committing him to the
jail of such county, and delivering a copy of the order to the jailer.
Sec. 361. [Prisoners—Examination.]—A person confined in any prison
in this state, may, by order of any court ofjrecord, beirequired to be produced for
oral examination in the county where he is imprisoned ; but in all other cases his
examination must be by deposition.
Sec. 862. [Same—Deposition.] —"While a prisoner's deposition is being
taken, he shall remain in custody of the officer having him in charge, who shall
afford reasonable facilities for the taking of the deposition.
SEC. 863. [Witness exempt from service of process.]—A witness
shall not be liable to be sued in a county in which he does not reside, by being
served with a summons in such county, while going, returning or attending in
obedience to a subpoena.
Sec. 364. [Witness—Attendance—Fees.] — At the commencement of
each day after the first day, a witness may demand his fees for that day's atten
dance in obedience to a subpoena, and if the same be not paid he shall not be re
quired to remain.
Sec. 865. [Same—Oath.] —Before testifying, the witness shall be sworn to
testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. The mode of ad
ministering an oath shall be such as is most binding upon the conscience of the
witness.
mode of taking the testimony of witnesses.
SEC. 866. [Modes of taking testimony.] —The testimony of witnesses
may be taken in three modes : First. By affidavit. Second. By deposition. Third.
By oral examination.
SEC. 867. [Affidavit.] —An affidavit is a written declaration under oath,
made without notice to the adverse party.
SEC. 868. [Deposition.] —A deposition is a written declaration under oath,
made upon notice to the adverse party for the purpose of enabling him to attend
and cross-examine ; or upon written interrogatories.
SEC. 869. [Oral examination.]—An oral examination is an examination
in the presence of the jury or tribunal which is to decide the fact or act upon it,
the testimony being heard by the jury or tribunal from the lips of the witness.
SEC. 870. [Affidavit, when used.] —An affidavit may m used to verify a
pleading, to prove the service of a summons, notice or other process, in an action,
to obtain a provisional remedy, an examination of a witness, a stay of proceed
ings, or upon a motion, and in any other case permitted by law.
SEC. 871. [Same—Before whom taken.] —An affidavit may be made in
and out of this state, before any person authorized to take depositions, and must
be authenticated in the same way, except as provided in section one hundred and
eighteen.
DEPOSITIONS.
SEC. 872. [When used.] —The deposition of any witness may be used only
in the following cases: First. When the witness does not reside in the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, or is sent for trial by change of venue,
or is absent therefrom. Second. When, from age, infirmity, or imprisonment, the
witness is unable to attend the court, or is dead. Third. When the testimony is
required upon a motion, or in any other case where the oral examination of a
witness is not required.
SEC. 878. [When taken.] —Either party may commence taking testimony
by depositions, at any time after service upon the defendant.
SEC. 874. [BeforeiWhom taken, within state.]—Depositions may bo
taken in this state before a judge or clerk of the supreme or district court, or before a
probate judge, justice of the peace, notary public, mayor, or chief magistrate of any
city or town corporate, or before a master commissioner, or any person empowered
by a special commission ; but depositions taken in this state, to be used therein,
must be taken by an officer or person whose authority is derived within the state.
Sec. 875. [Same—Without state.] —Depositions may be taken out ot the
state by a judge, justice, or chancellor of any court of record, a justice of the peace,
notary public, mayor, or chief magistrate of any city or town corporate, a com
missioner appointed by* the governor of this state to take depositions, or any
person authorized by a special commission from this state.
Sec. 876. [Same—Relative—Attorney.]—The officer before whom de
positions are taken, must not be a relative or attorney of either party, or other
wise interested in the event of the action or proceeding.
Sec. 877. [Dedimus potestatum.] —Any court of record of this state,
or any judge thereof, is authorized to grant a commission to take depositions
within or without the state. The commission must be issued to a person or per
sons therein named, by the clerk, under the seal of the court granting the same,
and depositions under it must be taken upon written interrogatories, unless the
parties otherwise agree.
Sec. 878. [Same—Notice^Service.1—Prior to the taking of any deposi
tion, unless taken under a special commission, a written notice specifying the
action or proceeding, the name of the court or tribunal in which it is to be used,
and the time and place of taking the same, shall be served upon the adverse
party, his agent or attorney of record, or left at his usual place of abode. The
notice shall be served so as to allow the adverse party sufficient time by the usual
route of travel to attend, and one day for preparation, exclusive of Sundays, and
the day of service ; and the examination may, if so stated in the notice, be ad
journed from day to day. The notice shall also specify the names of the witnesses
to be examined. And when the place of taking the deposition shall be out of the
state, or more than fifty miles from the place of trial of the action, the adverse
party, within forty-eight hours after the service of the notice, may serve upon the
party taking the deposition, his agent or attorney of record, written cross interro
gatories to be propounded to any witness, and such last-named party shall cause
them to be transmitted to the officer before whom the deposition is taken, who
shall propound them to the witness, and they shall be answered subject to objec
tions, as in other cases. [Amended 1875, 87. Took effect Mar. 1, 1875.]
Sec. 879. [Same—Notice to non-resident.] —When the party against
whom the deposition is to be read, is absent from, or a non-resident of the state,
and has no agent or attorney of record therein, he may be notified of the taking
of the deposition by publication. The publication must be made three consecu
tive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county where the action or proceed
ing is pending, if there be any printed in such county, and if not, in some news
paper printed in this state, of general circulation in that county. The publication
must contain all that is required in a written notice, and may be proved in the
manner prescribed in section eighty.
Sec. 880. [By whom written.] —The deposition shall be written in the
Sresence of the officer taking the same, either by the officer, the witness, or some
isinterested person, and subscribed by the witness.
Sec. 881. [Sealed—Transmitted to clerk.]—The deposition so taken
shall be sealed up and endorsed with the title of the cause and the name of the
officer taking the same, and by him addressed and transmitted to the clerk of the
court where the action or proceeding is pending. It shall remain under seal until
opened by the clerk by order of the court, or at the request of a party to the action
or proceeding, or his attorney.
Sec. 882. [Where used.] —Depositions taken pursuant to this article,Bhall
be admitted in evidence on the trial of any civil action or proceeding pending be
fore any justice of the peace, mayor, or other judicial officer of a city or town
corporate, or before any arbitrators or referees, and such deposition shall be
sealed up, endorsed with the title of the action or proceeding, the name of the
officer taking the same, and addressed and transmitted by such officer to such
justice, mayor, or other judicial officer, arbitrators or referees.
Sec. 883. [When used.] —When a deposition has once been taken, it may be
read in any stage of the Bame action or proceeding, or in any other action or pro
ceeding, upon the same matter between the same parties, subject, however, to all
such exceptions as may be taken thereto under the provisions of this title.
Sec. 884. [Authentication.] —Depositions taken pursuant to this title, by
any judicial or other officer berein authorized to take depositions, having a seal
of office, whether resident in this state or elsewhere, shall be admitted in evidence
upon the certificate and signature of such.officer, under the Beal of the court of
which he is an officer, or his official seal, and no other or further act of authenti
cation shall be required. If the officer taking the same have no official seal, the
deposition, if not taken in this state, shall be certified and signed by such officer,
and shall be further authenticated, either by parol proof adduced in court, or by
the official certificate and seal of any secretary or other officer of state keeping
the great seal thereof, or of the clerk or prothonotary of any court having a Beal,
attesting that such judicial or other officer was at the time of taking the same,
within the meaning of this chapter, authorized to take the same. But if the dep
osition be taken within this state by an officer having no seal, or within or without
this state under a special commission, it shall be sufficiently authenticated by the
official signature of the officer or commissioner taking the same.
Sec. 885. [Certificate of officer,] —The officer taking the deposition shall
annex thereto a certificate showing the following facts : First. That the witness
was first sworn to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
Second. That the deposition was reduced to writing by some proper person (nam
ing him). Third. That the deposition was written and subscribed in the presence
of the officer certifying thereto. Fourth. That the deposition was taken at the
time and place specified in the notice.
SEC. 886. [Not read, when witness present.]—When a deposition is
offered to be read in evidence, it must appear to the satisfaction of the court, that
for any cause specified in section three hundred and seventy-two, the attendance
of the witness cannot be procured.
Sec. 887. [When filed.] —Every deposition intended to be read in evidence
on the trial, must be filed at least one day before the day of trial.
Sec. 888. [Fees,]—The following fees shall be allowed for taking depositions
in the state, viz : Swearing each witness, five cents ; for each subpoena, attach
ment, or order of commitment, fifty cents ; for each hundred1 words contained in
such deposition and certificate, ten cents and no more ; and such officer may
retain the same until such fees are paid. Such officer shall also tax the costs of
the sheriff or other officer who shall serve the process aforesaid, and fees of the
witness, and may also, if directed by the persons entitled thereto, retain such
depositions until the said fees are paid.
EXCEPTIONS TO DEPOSITIONS.
Sec. 889. [Form — Filing.] —Exceptions to depositions shall be in
writing, Specifying the grounds of objection, and filed with the papers in the
cause.
Sec. 890. [When made.] —No exception other than for incompetency or
irrelevancy shall be regarded, unless made and filed before the commencement of
the trial.
Sec. 891. [When considered.] —The court shall, on motion of either
party, hear ana decide the questions arising on exceptions to depositions, before
the commencement of the trial.
Sec. 892. [Errors waived.]—Errors of the court in its decisions upon ex
ceptions to depositions are waived, unless excepted to.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 393. [Proof oi genuineness of documents.] —Either party may
exhibit to the other or his attorney, at any time before the trial, any paper or
document material to the action, and request an admission in writing of genuine
ness. If the adverse party or his attorney fail to give the admission in writing
within four days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the paper or docu
ment be afterward put to any cost or expense to prove its genuineness, and the
same be finally proved or admitted on the trial, such costs and expenses, to be as
certained at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing to make the admission,
unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court that there were good reasons
for the refusal.
Sec. 894. [Inspection of papers by adverse party.] —Either party
•r his attorney may demand of the adverse party an inspection and copy, or per
mission to take a copy of a book, paper, or document in his possession or under
his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or defense
therein. Such demand shall be in writing, specifying the book, paper, or docu
ment, with sufficient particularity to enable the other party to distinguish it, and
if compliance with the demand within four days be refused, the court or judge, on
motion and notice to the adverse party, may, in their discretion, order the adverse
party to give the other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or per
mission to take a copy, of such book, paper, or document ; and on failure to com
ply with such order, the court may exclude the paper or document from being
given in evidence, or, if wanted as evidence by the party applying, may direct the
jury to presume it to be such as the party by affidavit alleges it to be. This sec
tion is not to be construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce
any book, paper, or document when he is examined as a witness.
Sec. 895. [Copy of writing of adverse party.]—Either party or his
attorney, if required, shall deliver To the other party or his attorney, a copy of any
deed, instrument, or other writing, whereon the action or defense is founded, or
which he intends to offer in evidence at the trial. If the plaintiff or defendant
shall refuse to furnish the copy or copies required, the party so refusing shall not
be permitted to give in evidence, at the trial, the original, of which a copy has
been refused. This section shall not apply to any paper a copy of which is filed
with a pleading.
Sec. 896. [Laws of other states— Printed copies.] —Printed copies in
volumes of statutes, code, or other written law, enacted by any other territory,
state, or foreign government, purporting or proved to have been published by
the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the exist
ing law in the courts or tribunals of such territory, state or government, shall
be admitted by the courts and officers of this state on all occasions, as presump
tive evidence of such laws. The unwritten or common law of any other territory,
state, or foreign government, may be proved as facts by parol evidence ; and the
books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts may also be admitted as pre
sumptive evidence of such law.
Sec. 897. [Concealment of witness—Power of officer.] —If a witnesi
conceal himself, or in any other manner attempt to avoid being personally served
with a subpoena, any sheriff or constable, having the subpoena, may use all nec
essary and proper means to serve the same, and for that purpose may break into
any building or other place where the witness is to be found, having first made
known his business and demanded admittance.
Sec. 898. [Party subpoenaed—Failing to appear.l—In addition to the
above remedies, if a party to a suit in his own right, on being duly subpoenaed,
fail to appear and give testimony, the other party may, at his option, have a contin
uance of the cause as in cases of other witnesses, and at the cost of the delinquent.
Sec. 899. [Papers produced by rule of court.] --The supreme or dis
trict court may, by rule, require the production of any papers or books which are
material to the just jdetermmation of any cause pending before it, for the purpose
of being inspected and copied by or for the party thus calling for them.
Sec.«400. [Same—Petition for.] —The petition for that purpose must state
the facts expected to be proved by such books or papers, and that as the petitioner
believes, such books and papers are under the control of the party against whom
the rule is sought, and must show wherein they are material. The rule shall
thereupon be granted to produce the book and papers, or show cause to the
contrary, if the court deem such rule expedient and proper.
Sec. 401. [Same—Failure to obey rule.] —On failing to obey the rule or
show sufficient cause for such failure, the same consequences shall ensue as if the
5>arty had failed to appear and testify, when subpoenaed by the party now calling
or the books and papers.
Sec. 402. [Writing called for—When used.]—Though a writing called
for by one party is by the other produced, the party thus calling for it, is not
obliged to use it as evidence in the case.
Sec. 408. [Proof of publication.] —Publications required by law to be
made in a newspaper, may be proved by affidavit of any person having knowledge
of the fact, specifying the time when and the paper in which the publication was
made, but such affidavit must, for the purposes now contemplated, be made with
in six months after the last day of publication.
Sec. 404. [Proof of service.1—The posting up or service of any notice or
other paper required by law, may be proved Dy the affidavit of any competent wit
ness, attached to a copy of said notice or paper, and made within six months of
the time of such posting up.
Sec. 405. [Proof by affidavit.] —Any other fact which is required to be
shown by affidavit, and which may be required for future use in any action or
other proceeding, may be proved by pursuing the course above indicated, as nearly
as the circumstances of the case will admit.
Sec. 406. [Same—Perpetuation.] —Such proof so made may be perpet
uated and preserved for future use by filing the papers above mentioned in the
office of the judge of probate, and the original affidavit appended to the notice or
paper, if there be one, and if not the affidavit by itself is presumptive evidence of
,the facts stated therein, but does not preclude other modes or proof now held
sufficient.
Sec. 407. [Field notes or plat of.county surveyor.]—A copy of the
field notes of any county surveyor, or a plat made by him, and certified under
oath as correct, may be received as evidence to show the shape or dimensions of
a tract of land, or any other fact whose ascertainment requires only the exercise
of scientific skill or calculation.
Sec. 408. [Certified copies of records.]—Duly certified copies of all
records and entries or papers belonging to any public office, or by authority of law
filed to be kept therein, shall be evidence in all cases of equal credibility with the
original records or papers so filed.
Sec. 409, [Same-How obtained.]—Every officer having the custody of
a public record or writing, is bound to give any person on demand a certified copy
thereof, on payment of the legal fees therefor.
Sec. 410. [Lost official papers-^Certiflcate.]—The certificate of a pub
lic officer that he has made diligent and ineffectual search for a paper in his office
is of the same efficacy in all cases as if such officer had personally appeared and
sworn to such facts.
Sec. 411. [Land office receipts.]—The usual duplicate receipt of the re
ceiver of any land office, or, if that be lost or destroyed, or beyond the reach of thv
party, the certificate of such receiver, that the books of his office show the sale of
a tract of land to a certain individual, is proof of title equivalent to a patent
against all but the holder of an actual patent.
Sec. 412. [Official signatures — Genuineness.]—In the cases contemElated
in the last three sections, the signature of the officer shall be presumed to
e genuime until the contrary is shown. |
Sec. 418. (Proof ofjudicial records.]—A judicial record of this state,,or
of any other federal court of the United States, may be proved by the producing of
the original, or by a copy thereof, certified by the clerk or the person having the
legal custody thereof, authenticated by his seal of office, if he have one.
Sec. 414. [Saimv—Of other states.]—That of a sister state may be
proved by the attestation of the clerk and the seal of the court annexed, if there
toe a seal, together with a certificate of a judge, chief justice, or presiding magis
trate, that the attestation is in due form of law.
Sec. 415. [Same—Justices of the peace.] —The official certificate of a
justice of the peace of any of the United States, to any judgment, and the pre
liminary proceeding before him, supported by the official certificate of the clerk
of any court of record within the county in which such justice resides, stating
that he is an acting justice of the peace of that county, and that the signature of
his certificate is genuine, is sufficient evidence of such proceedings and judgment.
Sec. 416. [Same—Foreign countries,]—Copies of records and proceed
ings in the courts of a foreign country may be admitted in evidence, upon being
authenticated as follows : First. By the official attestation of the clerk or officer
in whose custody such records are legally kept. Second. By the certificate of one
of the judges or magistrates of such court, that the person so attesting is the clerk
or officer legally entrusted with the custody of such records, and that the signa
ture to his attestation is genuine. Third. By the official certificate of the officer
who has the custody of the principal seal of the government under whose author
ity the court is held, attested by said seal, stating that such court is duly consti
tuted, specifying the general nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the seal of
the court.
Sec. 417. [Acts of executives.] —Acts of the executive of the United
States, or of this state, or of any state in the union, or of a foreign government
are proved by the records of the state department of the respective governments,
or by public documents purporting to have been printed by order of the legislature
of those governments respectively, or by either branch thereof.
Sec. 418. [Legislative proceedings.]—The proceedings of the legislature
of this state, or any state of the union, or of the Dmted States, or of any foreign
Sovernment are proved by the journals of those bodies, respectively, or of either
ranch thereof, and either by copies officially certified by the clerk of the house
in which the proceedings were had, or by a copy purporting to have been printed
toy their order.
Sec. 419. [Statute law—Printed copies.]—Printed copies of the statute
laws of this state, or any of the United States, or of congress, or of any foreign gov-
eminent, purporting or proved to have been published under the authority thereof,
or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing laws in the courts
of such state or government, shall be admitted in the courts of this state as pre
sumptive evidence of such law.
Seo. 420. [Same—Public seal—Unwritten law.]—The public seal of
the state or county affixed to.a copy of a written law or other public writing, is
%1bo admissible as evidence or such law or writing respectively ; the unwritten law
of any other state or government may be proved as fact by parol evidence, and
also by tbe books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts.
PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.
Seo. 421. [Petition.]—The testimony of a witness may be perpetuated in
the following manner: The applicant snail file in tbe office of the clerk of
the district jourt, a petition, to be verified, in which shall be set forth, spec
ially, the subject matter relative to which testimony is to be taken, and the
names of the persons interested, if known to the applicant ; and if not known,
such general description as he can give of such persons as heirs, devisees, alienees,
or otherwise. The petition shall also state the names of the witnesses to be ex
amined, and the interrogatories to be propounded to each ; that the applicant ex
pects to be a party to an action in a court of this state, in which such testimony
will, as he believes, be material ; and the obstacles preventing the immediate
commencement of the action, where the applicant expects to be plaintiff.
Sec. 422. [Order for examination.]—The court, or judge thereof, may
forthwith make an order allowing the examination of Buch witnesses. The order
shall prescribe the time and place of the examination, how long the parties inter
ested shall be notified thereof, and the manner in which they shall be notified.
Sec. 428. [Cross-interrogatories.] —When it appears satisfactorily to the
court or judge that the parties interested cannot be personally notified, such court,
or judge shall appoint a competent attorney to examine the petition and prepare
and file cross-interrogatories to those contained therein.
Sec. 424. [Examination—Attorney's fee.]—The witnesses shall be ex
amined upon the interrogatories of the applicant, and upon cross-interrogatories,
where they are required to be prepared, and no others shall be propounded to
them ; nor shall any statement be received which is not responsive to some one
of them. The attorney filing the cross-interrogatories shall be allowed a reason
able fee therefor, to be taxed in the bill of costs.
Seo. 425. [Same—Before whom taken—Preservation.! —Such depo
sitions shall be taken before some one authorized by law to take depositions, orbefore
some one specially authorized .by the court or judge, and shall be returned
to the clerk's office of the court in which the petition was filed.
Sec. 426. [Same—Approval—Effect.] —The court or judge, if satisfied
that the depositions have been properly taken, and as herein required, shall approve
the same and order them to be filed ; and if a trial be had between the parties
named in the petition, or their privies or successors in interest, such depositions,
or certified copies thereof, may be given in evidence by either party, where the
.witnesses are dead, or insane, or where their attendance for oral examination can
not be obtained or required ; but such depositions shall be subject to the same ob
jections for irrelevancy and incompetency as may be made to depositions taken
pending an action.
SEC. 427. [Costs.] —The applicant shall pay the costs of all proceedings under
this chapter.
TITLE XI.—Judgment.
JUDGMENT IN GENERAL.
Seo. 428. [Defined.]—A judgment is the final determination of the rightaof
the parties in an action. a
Sec. 429. [Against whom given.] —Judgment may be given for or
against one or more of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several
defendants ; it may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on either side, as
between themselves, and it may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to
which he may be entitled. In an action against several defendants, the court may,
in its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action
to proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment may be proper. The
court may also dismiss the petition with costs, in favor of one or more defendants,
in case of unreasonable neglect on the part of the plaintiff to serve the summons
on other defendants, or to proceed in the cause against the defendant or defend
ants served.
Sec. 429 a. [Transcripts from other counties— Effect — Lien—
Execution.] —Sec. 1. That the transcript of a judgment of any district court
in this state, may be filed in the office of the clerk of the district court in any
county, and such transcript shall be a hen on the property of the debtor in any
county in which such transcript is filed, in like manner as in the county whera
such judgment was rendered, and execution may be issued on judgment obtained
by such transcript, as on the original judgment ; Provided, That such transcript
shall at all times be effected and be in the same plight as the original judgment.
[1869,158,0.8.712.]
Sec. 429 b. [Decree for conveyance— Effect.]— Sec 1. When any
judgment or decree shall be rendered for a conveyance, release or acquittance, in
any court of this state, and the party or parties against whom the judgment or
decree shall be rendered, do not comply therewith within the time mentioned in
said judgment or decree, such judgment or decree shall have the same operation
and effect, and be as available as if the conveyance, release, or acquittance had
been executed conformable to such judgment or decree. [1869, 70. G. S. 711.]
Sec. 480. [Action dismissed without prejudice.]—An action may be
dismissed without prejudice to a future action. First. By the plaintiff, before
the final submission of the case to the jury, or to the court, where the trial is by
the court. Second. By the court, where the plaintiff fails to appear on the
trial. Third. By the court, for want of necessary parties. Fourth. By the court,
on the application of some of the defendants, where there are others whom the
plaintiff fails to prosecute with diligence. Fifth. By the court, for disobedi
ence by the plaintiff of an order concerning the proceedings in the action. In all
other cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision must be upon the merits.
SEC. 480 a. [Plaintiff may dismiss in vacation.]—Sec 1. That the
party, plaintiff, in any case pending in the district or supreme court of the state,
shall, when no counter-claim or set-off has been filed by the opposite party, have
the right in the vacation of any of said courts to dismiss his said action without
prejudice, upon payment of costs, which said dismissal shall be, by the clerk of
any of said courts, entered upon the journala and take effect from and after the
date thereof. [1867, 51.]
Sec. 431. [Action dismissed when set-off or counter-claim
Sleaded.] —In any case where a set-off or counter-claim has been presented, the
efendant shall have the right of proceeding to the trial of his claim, although the
plaintiff may have dismissed the action or failed to appear.
Sec. 432. [On failure to answer.] —If the taking of an account, or the
proof of a fact, or the assessment of damages, be necessary to enable the court to
fwonounce judgment upon a failure to answer, or after a decision of an issue of
aw, the court may, with the assent of the party not in default, take the account,
hear the proof, or assess the damages ; or may, with the like assent, refer the
same to a referee, master, or commissioner, or may direct the same to be ascer
tained or assessed by a jury. If a jury be ordered, it shall be on or after the day
on which the action is set for trial.
SEC. 483. [By confession.] —Any person indebted, or against whom a cause
of action exists, may personally appear, in a court of competent jurisdiction, and,
with the assent of the creditor, or person having such cause of action, confess
judgment therefor, whereupon judgment shall be entered accordingly.
SEC. 484. [Same—Cause of action stated.] —The debt or cause of action
shall be briefly stated in the judgment, or in a writing to be filed as pleadings in
other actions.
SEC. 485. [Same—Effect.] —Such judgment shall authorize the same pro
ceedings for its enforcement as judgments rendered in actions regularly brought
and prosecuted ; and the confession shall operate as a release of errors.
SEC. 436. [Same—By attorney.] —Every attorney who shall confess
judgment in any case, Bhall, at the time of making such confession, produce the
warrant of attorney for making the same, to the court before which he makes the
confession, and the original, or a copy of the warrant shall be filed with the clerk
of the court in which the judgment shall be entered.
SEC. 437. [Same—By person in custody.] —If any person be in custody
in a civil action, at the suit of another, no warrant of attorney executed by the
person in custody, to confess judgment in favor of the person at whose suit he is
in custody, shall be of any force, unless some attorney expressly named by the
person in custody be present, and Bign the warrant of attorney as a witness.
manner of giving and entering judgment.
SEC. 488. [Upon general verdict.] —When a trial by jury has been nad,
judgment must be rendered by the clerk in conformity to the verdict, unless it is.
special, or the court order the case to be reserved for future argument or consid
eration.
SEC. 439. [Upon special finding—Reserved case.] —Where the ver
dict is special, or where there has been a special finding on particular questions
of fact, or where the court' has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall order
what judgment shall be .entered.
SEC. 440. [Upon pleadings.] —Where, upon the statements in the plead
ings, one party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so
rendered by the court, though a verdicthas been found against such party.
SEC. 441. [Upon set-off— Counter claim.] —If a counter-claim or set
off established at the trial, exceeds the- plaintiff's claim so established, judgment
for the defendant must be given for the excess ; or, if it appear that the defendant
is entitled to any affirmative relief, judgment shall be given therefor.
Sec. 442; [Infant's rights, reserved.] — It shall not be necessary to
reserve, in a judgment or order, the right of an infant to show cause against it
after his attaining full age ; but in any case in which, but for this Bection, such
reservation would have been proper, the infant, within one year after arriving at
the age of twenty-one years, may show cause against such order or judgment.
Sec. 443. [Entered on journal.]—All judgments and orders must be
entered on the journal of the court, and specify clearly the relief granted or order
made in the action.
Sec. 444. [Complete record.] —The clerk shall make a complete record of
every cause as soon as it is finally determined, unless such record, or some part
thereof, be duly waived.
Sec. 445. [Same—When made.] —He shall make up such record in each
cause, in the vacation next after the term at which the same was determined, and
the presiding judge of such court shall, at its next term thereafter, subscribe the
same.
Sec. 446. [Same—Contents.] —The records shall be made up from the petion,
the process, return, the pleadings subsequent thereto, reports, verdicts,
orders, judgments, and all material acts and proceedings of the court; but if
the items of an account, or the copies of a paper attached to the pleadings be
voluminous, the court may order the record to be made by abbreviating the same,
or inserting a pertinent description thereof, or by omitting them entirely. Evi
dence must not be recorded.
Sec. 447. [Records signed by judge.] —When the judicial acts or other
proceedings of any court have not been regularly brought up and recorded by
the clerk thereof, such court shall cause the same to be made up and recorded
within such time as it may direct. When they are made up, and upon examina
tion found to be correct, the presiding judge of such court shall subscribe the
same.
SEC. 448. [Complete record—Unnecessary when.] —No complete re
cord shall be made : First. In criminal prosecutions where the indictment has
been quashed, or where the prosecuting attorney shall have entered a nolle prosequi
on the indictment. Second. In cases where an action has been dismissed without
prejudice to a future action. Third. In actions in which, in open court, at the
term at which the final order or judgment shall be made, both parties shall de
clare their agreement that no record shall be made.
Sec. 449. [Same—Action dismissed.] —In cases where an action has
been dismissed without prejudice to a future action, the clerk shall make a comSlete
record of the proceedings, upon being paid for making the same by the party
esiring the reeord to be made.
Sec. 450. [Same—Set-off— Counter-claim.] —A complete record shall be
made in the case mentioned in section four hundred and thirty-one, unless
"waived by the parties.
conveyance by commissioners.
Seo. 451. [Realty—When conveyed.]—Real property may oe conveyed
by master commissioners as hereinafter provided : First. When, by an order or
judgment in an action or proceeding, a party is ordered to convey such property
to another, and he shall neglect or refuse to comply with such order or judgment.
Second. When specific real property is required to be sold under an order or judg
ment of the court.
SEC. 452. [Sheriff may act—Sales.] —A sheriff may act as a master com
missioner under the second subdivision of the preceding section. Sales made
under the same shall conform in all respects to the laws regulating sales of land
upon execution.
SEC. 458. [Deed, how made.]—The deed of a master commissioner shall
contain the like recital, and shall be executed, acknowledged and recorded as the
deed of a sheriff, of real property sold under execution.
Sec. 454. [Causes of action which survive.] —In addition to the causes
of action which survive at common law, causes of action for mesne profits, or for
an injury to real 01 personal estate, or for any deceit or fraud, shall also survive,
and the action may be brought notwithstanding the death of the person entitled
or liable to the same.
Sec. 455. [Actions which do not abate.]—No action pending in any
court shall abate by the death of either or both the parties thereto, except an action
for libel, Blander, malicious prosecution, assault, or assault and battery, for a nui
sance, or against a justice of the peace for misconduct in office ; which shall abate
by the death of the defendant.
TITLE XIII.—Revivor.
Seo. 456. [Of action—Death of one of several parties.] —Where there
are several plaintiffs or defendants in an action, and one of them dies, or his
powers as a personal representative cease, if the right of action survive to or
against the remaining parties, the action may proceed, the death of the party, or
the cessation of his powers, being stated on the record.
Seo. 457. [Same—Action to proceed.]—Where one of several plaintiffs
ox defendants dies, or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the causa
of action do not admit of a survivorship, and the court is of opinion that the merits
of the controversy can be properly determined, and the principles applicable to
the case fully settled, it may proceed to try the Bame as between the remaining
parties ; but the judgment shall not prejudice any who were not parties at the
time pf the trial.
Seo. 458. [Revivor in name of representatives.] —Where one of the
parties to an action dies, or his powers as a personal representative cease, before
the judgment, if the right of action survive in favor of or against his representa
tives or successor, the action may be revived, and proceed m their names.
SEC. 459. [Order of revivor.] —The revivor shall be by a conditional
order of the court if made in term, or by a judge thereof if made in vacation, that
the action be revived in the names of the representatives or successor of the party
who died, or whose powera ceased, and proceed in favor of or against them.
SEC. 460. [Same—Made upon order.]—The order may be made on the
motion of the adverse party, or of the representatives or successor of the party
who died, or whose powers ceased, suggesting his death or the cessation of hi»
powers, which, with the names and capacities of his representatives or successor,
shall be stated in the order.
SEC. 461. [Same—Service of order.]—If the order is made by consent
of the parties, the action shall forthwith stand revived ; and if not made by con
sent, the order shall be served in the same manner, and returned within the
same time, as a Bummons, upon the party adverse to the one making the motion,
and if sufficient cause be not shown against the revivor, the action shall stand
revived.
SEC. 462. [Notice by publication.]—When tne plaintiff shall make an
affidavit, that the representatives of the defendant, or any of them, in whose
name the action may be ordered to be revived, are non-residents of the state, or
have left the same to avoid the service of the order, or so conceal themselves that
the order cannot be served upon them, or that the names and residence of the
heirs or devisees of the person against whom the action may be ordered to be
revived, or some of them, are unknown to the affiant, a notice may be published
for four consecutive weeks, as provided by section seventy-nine, notifying them
to appear on a day therein named, not less than ten days after the publication is
complete, and show cause why the action should not be revived against them ;
and if sufficient cause be not shown to the contrary, the action shall stand revived.
Sec. 468. [Death of plaintiff.]—Upon the death of the plaintiff in an
action, it may be revived in the names of his representatives, to whom his right
has passed. Where his right has passed to his personal representative, the
revivor shall be in his name ; where it has passed to his heirs or devisees, who
could support the action if brought anew, the revivor may be in their names.
Sec. 464. [Death of defendant.] —Upon the death of a defendant in an
action, wherein the right, or any part thereof, survives against his personal repre
sentative, the revivor shall be against him ; and it may also be against the heirs
or devisees of the defendant, or both, when the right of action, or any part there
of, survives against them.
Sec. 465. [Same—Action concerning realty.]—Upon the death of a
defendant in an action for the recovery of real property only, or which concerns
only his rights or claims to such property, the action may be revived against his
heirs or devisees, or both, and an order therefor may be forthwith made in the
manner directed in the preceding sections of this title.
SEC. 466. [Same—Revivor, when made.] —An order to revive an action
against the representatives or successor of a defendant, shall not be made with
out the consent of such representatives or successor, unless in one year from the
time it could have been first made.
Sec. 467. [Death of plaintiff— Revivor, when made.]—An order to
revive an action in the names of the representatives or successor of a plaintiff,
may be made forthwith, but shall not be made without the consent of the defendant,
after the expiration of one year from the time the order might have been first made ;
but where the defendant shall also have died, or his powers have ceased in the
meantime, the order of revivor on both sides may be made in the period limited
in the last section.
Sec. 468. [Action, when stricken from docket.] —When it appears to
the court by affidavit that either party to an action has been dead, or, where a
party sues or is sued as a personal representative, that his powers have ceased,
for a period so long that the action cannot be revived in the names of his repre
sentatives or successor, without the consent of both parties, it shall order the
action to be stricken from the docket.
Sec. 469. [Same—Death of plaintiff.] —At any term of the court suc
ceeding the death of the plaintiff, while the action remains on the docket, the de
fendant having given to the plaintiff's proper representatives, in whose names
the action might be revived, ten days notice of the application therefor, may have
an order to strike the action from the docket and for costs against the estate of
the plaintiff, unless the action is forthwith revived.
Sec. 470. [Revived action, when tried.] —When, by the provisions of the
preceding sections, an action stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be post
poned by reason of the revivor, if the action would have stood for trial at the
term the revivor is complete, had no death or cessation of powers taken place.
REVIVOR AND NEW PARTIES TO JUDGMENT.
Sec. 471. [Joint debtors.] —When a judgment is recovered against one or
more persons jointly indebted upon contract, those who were not originally sum
moned may be made parties to the judgment by action.
Sec. 472. [Death of parties.]—If either or both the parties die after judg
ment, and before satisfaction thereof, their representatives, real or personal, or
both, as the case may require, may be made parties to the same, in the same man
ner as is prescribed for reviving actions before judgment ; and such judgment may
be rendered and execution awarded as might or ought to be given or awarded
against the representatives, real or personal, or both, of such deceased party.
Sec. 478. [Dormant judgment.] —If a judgment become dormant, it
may be revived in the same manner as is prescribed for reviving actions before
judgment.
TITLE XIV.—Executions.
Sec. 474. [Issuance.!—Executions shall be deemed process of the court, and
shall be issued by the clerk and directed to the sheriff of the county. They may
be directed to different counties at the same time.
Seo. 475. [Different kinds.] —Executions are of three kinds: First.
Against the property of the judgment debtor. Second. Against his person.
Third. For the delivery of the possession of real property with damages for with
holding the same, and costs.
AGAINST THE PROPERTY OF THE JUDGMENT DEBTOR.
SEC. 476. [Property subject to levy.]—Lands, tenements, goods and
chattels, not exempt by law, shall be subject to the payment of debts, and shall
be liable to be taken on execution and sold as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 477. [Lien of judgment.]—The lands and tenements of the debtor
within the county where the judgment is entered, shall be bound for the satisfac
tion thereof, from the first day of the term at which judgment is rendered ; but
judgments by confession, and judgments rendered at the same term at which the
action is commenced, shall bind such lands only from the day on which such
judgments are rendered. All other lands, as well as goods and chattels of the
debtor, shall be bound from the time they Bhall be seized in execution.
Sec. 478^81. [Repealed 1875, 51.]
Sec. 477 a. [Stay of execution—Order of sale.]— Sec 1. Hereafter
no stay of execution or order of sale upon any judgment or decree shall be grant
ed for a longer time than nine months from and after the rendition of such judg
ment or decree. [1875, 49.]
SEC. 477 b. [Same—Mortgaged premises.]—Sec 2. The order of sale
on all decrees for the sale of mortgaged premises shall be stayed for the period of
nine months from and after the rendition of such decree, whenever the defendant
shall within twenty days after the rendition of such decree, file with the clerk of the
court a written request for the same ; Provided, That if the defendant make no
such request within said twenty days, the order of sale may issue immediately af
ter the expiration thereof.
SEC. 477 c. [Same—Judgments.] —Sec 8. On all judgments for the recov
ery of money only, except those rendered in any court on an appeal or writ of er
ror thereto or against any officer or person or corporation, or the sureties of any
of them,for money received in a fiduciary capacity, or for the breach of any official
duty, there may be a stay of execution if the defendant therein shall, within twenty
days from the rendition of judgment, procure two or more sufficient freehold sure
ties to enter into a bond, acknowledging themselves security for the defendant for
the payment of the judgment, interest, and costs, from the time of rendering
judgment until paid, as follows : First If the sum for which judgment was ren
dered, exclusive of costs, does not exceed fifty dollars, three months. Second. If
the sum for which judgment was rendered, exclusive of costs, exceeds fifty dollars
and does not exceed one hundred dollars, six months. Third. If the sum for
which judgment was rendered, exclusive of costs, exceeds one hundred dollars,
nine months.
Sec. 477 d. [Same—Bond.]—Sec. 4. Officers approving stay bonds shall
require the affidavits of the signers of such bonds that they own real estate not
exempt from execution, and aside from incumbrance, to the value of twice the
amount of the judgment.
Sec. 477 e. [Error—Appeal—Surety.]—Sec. 5. No proceedings in error
or appeal shall be allowed after such stay has been taken, nor shall a stay be
taken on a judgment entered as herein contemplated, against one who is surety
in the stay of execution.
Sec. 477 /. [Bond—Effect.]— Sec. 6. The sureties for the stay of execution
may be taken and approved by the clerk, and the bond shall be recorded in a book
kept for that purpose, and have the force and effect of a judgment confessed from
the date thereof against the property of the sureties, and the clerk shall enter and
index the same in the proper judgment docket, as in the case of other judgments.
Sec. 477 g. [Execution recalled.]— Sec. 7. When the surety is entered
after execution issued, the clerk shall immediately notify the sheriff of the stay,
and he shall forthwith return the execution, with his doings thereon.
Sec. 477 h. [Property levied upon relinquished.]—Sec. 8. All prop
erty levied on before stay of execution, and all written undertakings for the de
livery of personal property to the sheriff, shall be relinquinshed by the officer
upon stay of 'execution being entered.
Sec. 477 t. [Expiration—Execution.] —Sec. 9. At the expiration of the
stay the clerk shall issue a joint execution against the property of all the judg
ment debtors and sureties, describing them as debtors or sureties therein.
Sec. 477 j. [Effect on judgment lien.] —Sec. 10. Where a stay of execu
tion has been taken, such confessed judgment shall not release any judgment hen
by virtue of the original judgment for the amount then due. The officer holding
the execution shall return thereon what amount was made from the principal
debtor, and how much from the sureties.
Sec. 482. [Dormant judgment.]—If execution shall not be sued out
within five years from the date of any judgment that now is or may hereafter be
rendered in any court of record in this Btate, or if five years shall have intervened
between the date of the last execution issued on such judgment and the time of
suing out another writ of execution thereon, such judgment shall become dor
mant, and shall cease to operate as a lien on the estate of the judgment debtor.
Sec. 488. [Contents of writ.] —The writ of execution against the property
of the judgment debtor, issuing from any court of record in this state, shall com
mand the officer to whom it is directed, that of the goods and chattels of the
debtor he cause to be made the money specified in the writ, and for want of goods
and chattels, he cause the same to be made of the lands and tenements of the
debtor ; and the exact amount of the debt, damages and costs, for which the judg
ment is entered, shall be endorsed on the execution.
Sec. 484. [Several writs —Preference.]—When two or more writs of exe
cution against the same debtor shall be sued out dilring the term in which judg
ment was rendered, or within ten days thereafter, and when two or more writs of
execution against the same debtor shall be delivered to the officer on the same
day, no preference shall be given to either of such writs ; but if a sufficient sum
of money be not made to satisfy all executions, the amount made shall be distribu-
ted to the several creditors in proportion to the amount of their respective de
mands. In all other cases, the writ of execution first delivered to the officer shall
be first satisfied. And it shall be the duty of the officer to endorse on every writ
of execution the time when he received the same ; but nothing herein contained
shall be so construed as to affect any preferable lien which one or more of the
judgments on which execution issued may have on the lands of the judgment
debtor.
Sec. 486. [Levy.] —The officer to whom a writ of execution is delivered, shall
proceed immediately to levy the same upon the goodB and chattels of the debtor ;
but if no goods and chattels can be found, the officer shall endorse on the writ of
execution "no goods," and forthwith levy the writ of execution upon the lands and
tenements of the debtor, which may be liable to Batisfy the judgment.
Sec. 486. [Intervening claimants—Trial right of property.]—If
the officer, by virtue of any writ of execution issued from any court of record in
this state, shall levy the same on any goods and chattels claimed by any person
other than the defendant, it shall be the duty of said officer forthwith to give no
tice in writing to some justice of the peace in the county, in which shall be set
forth the names of the plaintiff and defendant, together with the name of the
claimant ; and at the same time he shall furnish the said justice of the peace with
a schedule of the property claimed. And it shall be the duty of such justice of
the peace immediately upon the receipt of such notice and schedule to make
an entry of the same upon his docket, and issue a writ of summons, directed to
the sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to summon five dis
interested men, having the qualification of electors, who shall Jbe named in said
summons, to appear before him, the said justice, at the time and place therein
mentioned, which time shall not be more than three days after the date of said
writ, to try and determine the right of the claimant to the property in controversy.
And it shall be the duty of the claimant to give two days notice in writing to the
plaintiff or other party for whose benefit such execution was issued and levied as
aforesaid, his agent or attorney, if within the county, of the time and place of
such trial ; and he shall, moreover, prove to the satisfaction of said justice that
such notice was given, or that the same could not be given by reason of the ab
sence of the party, his agent or attorney.
Sec. 487. [Same—Proceedings.]—The jury summoned as aforesaid, shall
be sworn to try and determine the right of the claimant to the property in contro
versy, and a true verdict to give, according to the evidence. If the jury shall
find the right to said goods and chattels, or any part thereof, to be in the claim
ant, they shall also find the value thereof, and the justice shall render judgment
upon such finding of the jury, for the claimant, that he recover his costs against
the plaintiff in execution, or other party to the same for whose benefit the execu
tion it^ued, and also that he have restitution of said goods and chattels, or any part thereof, according to the finding of the jury. But if the right of the said
goods and chattels, and every part thereof, shall not be in the claimant according
to the finding of said jury, then the said justice shall render judgment on such
finding, in favor of the plaintiff in execution, or other party for whose benefit the
same was issued and levied, against said claimant for costs, and award execution
thereon. Said justice of the peace, in the taxation of costs accruing by reason
of such claim and trial, Bhall*allow each juror summoned and Bworn, the sum of
fifty cents ; and for the sheriff, constable or other officer, and witnesses, and for
himself, he shall tax such fees as are allowed by law to each respectively, for like
services rendered in other cases. Such judgment for the claimant (unless an un
dertaking shall be executed, as provided in the next section), shall be a justifica-
.
tion of the officer in returning " no goods " to the writ of execution, by virtue of
which the levy has been made, as to such part of the goods and chattels as were
found to belong to such claimant.
Sec. 488. [Same—Sale of property—Bond.]— If the jury shall find the
property, or any part thereof, to be in the claimant, and the plaintiff in execution
shall at any time within three days after said trial, tender to the sheriff or other
officer having such property in his custody on execution, an undertaking, with
good and sufficient sureties payable to such claimant, in double the amount of the
value of such property as assessed by the jury, to the effect that they will pay all
damages sustained by reason of the detention or sale of Buch property, then the
iheriff or other officer shall deliver said undertaking to the claimant, and pro
ceed to sell such property, as if no such trial of the right of [property had taken
place, and shall not be liable to the claimant therefor.
Sec. 489. [Goods unsold—Delivery bond.] —In all cases where a sher
iff, coroner or other officer, shall, by virtue of an execution, levy upon any goods and
chattels which shall remain upon his hands unsold, for want of bidders, for the
want of time to advertise and sell, or any other reasonable cause, the officer
may. for his own security take of the defendant an undertaking with security in
such sum as he may deem sufficient, to the effect that the said property shall be
delivered to the officer holding an execution for the sale of the same, at the time
and place appointed by said officer, either by notice given in writing to said de
fendant in execution, or by advertisement, published in a newspaper printed in
the county, naming therein the day and place of sale. If the defendant shall fail
to deliver the goods and chattels at the time and place mentioned in the notice
to him given, or to pay to the officer holding the execution, the full value of said
goods and chattels, or the amount of said debt and costs, the undertaking, given
as aforesaid, shall be considered as broken, and may be proceeded on as in other
cases.
Sec. 490. [Notice of sale—Re-sale.] —The officer who levies upon goods
and chattels, by virtue of an execution issued by a court of record, before he pro
ceeds to sell the same, shall cause public notice to be given of the time and place
of Bale, for at least ten days before the day of sale. The notice shall be given by
advertisement published in some newspaper printed in the county, or in case- no
newspaper be printed therein, by putting up advertisements in five public places
in the county ; two advertisements shall be put up in the precinct where the sale
is to be held. And where goods and chattels levied upon cannot be sold for want
of bidders, the officer making such return Bhall annex to the execution a true and
perfect inventory of such goods and chattels ; and the plaintiff in such execution
may thereupon sue out another writ of execution, directing the sale of the prop
erty levied upon as aforesaid ; but such goods and chattels shall not be sold un
less the time and place of sale be advertised as hereinbefore provided.
Sec. 491. [Same property—Several levies.]—"When any writ shall
issue, directing the sale of property previously taken in execution, the officer issu
ing said writ shall at the request of the person entitled to the benefit thereof, his
agent, or attorney, add thereto a command to the officer to whom suoh writ shall
be directed, that if the property remaining in his hands not sold, shall, in his
opinion, be insufficient to satisfy the judgment, he shall levy the same upon the
lands and tenements, goods and chattels, or either, as the law shall permit,
being the property of the judgment debtor, sufficient to satisfy the debt.
Secs. 492, 493. [Repealed 1875, 61.]
Sec. 491 a. [Appraisal of lands levied on.] —Sec. 1. Whenever, here
after, execution shall be levied on any lands and tenements, the officer levying
the same shall call an inquest of two disinterested freeholders, who shall he resi
dents of the county where the lands taken on execution are situated, and admin
ister to them an oath impartially to appraise the interest of the person, or persons,
or corporation against whom the execution is levied, in the property so levied
upon, and such officer, together with said freeholders, shall appraise said interest
at its real value in money, and such appraisement shall be signed by such officer
and said freeholders, respectively. [1875, 60.]
Sec. 491 b. [Same—How made.]—Sec. 2. That for the purpose of the
appraisement mentioned in the last preceding section, the officer and the free
holders therein named shall deduct from the real value of the landB and tene
ments levied on, the amount of all liens and incumbrances for taxes or otherwise,
prior to the hen of the judgment under which execution is levied, and to be deter
mined as hereinafter provided, and which hens and incumbrances shall be speci
fically ennumerated, and the sum thereafter remaining shall be the real value of
the interest therein of the person, or persons, or corporation against whom or
which the execution is levied,
Sbc. 491c. [Same—Certificates of incumbrances.] —Sec. 8. It shall be
the duty of the county clerk, the clerk of the district court, and the county treas
urer of the county wherein such levy is made, for the purpose of ascertaining the
amount of the hens and incumbrances upon the lands and tenements so levied
upon, on application of the sheriff in writing, holding such execution, to certify
to said sheriff under their respective hands and official seals, the amount and
character of all liens existing against the lands and tenements levied on, and
which are prior to the lien of such levy, as the said hens appear of record in their
respective offices. For which certificate and the necessary Bearch therefor, said
officer shall receive a fee of two dollars ($2.00) each, to be paid by the plaintiff in
the execution, and taxed as increased costs in the action in which the judgment
on which execution was issued was rendered.
Sec. 491 d. [Same—Lands, how and when sold.] —Sec 4. The officer
holding such appraisement shall forthwith deposit a copy thereof, including his
application to the officers enumerated in section three of this act, and their offi
cial certificates as in said section provided, in the office of the clerk of the court
from which such execution issued, and shall immediately advertise and sell said
real estate, lands, and tenements agreeably to the provisions of this act, but in no
case shall he sell any such real estate, lands, or tenements for less than two-thirds
the appraised value of the interest of the person, persons, or corporation, against
whom the execution was issued, unless it appear from the appraisement under
this act that the liens and incumbrances thereon equal or exceed its real value in
money.
SEC. 491 e. Sec 5.[ Repealed section 492 and 493.]
SEC. 491/. [Construction.]— Sec 6. This act shall take effect and be in
force from and after its passage, but shall not apply to executions which shall is
sue upon judgments already entered.
SEC. 494. [Same—Lands sold by state.]—Nothing contained in this and
the preceding sections of this title shall in anywise extend to affect the sale of any
land by the state, but all lands therein, the property of individuals indebted to
the state for any debt or taxes, or in any other manner, shall be sold without val
uation, for the discharge of Buch debt or taxes, agreeably to the laws for such
cases made and provided.
SEC. 495. [New appraisement.] —In all cases where real estate may here-
after be levied upon, by virtue of any execution or order of sale, and shall have
been appraised, and twice advertised and offered for sale, and shall remain unsold
for want of bidders, it shall be the duty of the officer to cause anew appraisement
of such real estate to be made, and successive executions or orders of sale may
issue at any time in vacation, after the return of the officer "not sold for want of
bidders," at the request of the plaintiff or his attorney.
Sec. 496. [Delinquent officers' property levied upon.]—If the prop
erty of any clerk, sheriff, coroner, justice of the peace, constable, or any collector
of state, county, town, or township tax, shall be levied on, for or on account of
any moneys that now are, or may hereafter be, by them collected or received in
their official capacity, the property so levied on shall be sold without valuation.
Sec. 497. [Sale of lands—Notice.] —Lands and tenements, taken in exe
cution, shall not be sold until the officer cause public notice of the time and place
of sale [to] be given, for at least thirty days before the day of sale, by advertisement
in some newspaper printed in the county, or, in case no newspaper be printed in
the county, in some newspaper in general circulation therein, and by putting up
an advertisement on the court house door, and in five other public places in the
county, two of which shall be in the precinct where such lands and tenements lie.
All sales made without such advertisement shall be set aside, on motion, by the
court to which the execution is returnable.
Sec. 497 a. [Redemption of land from levy and sale.] —Sec. L
The owners of any real estate against which a decree of foreclosure has been ren
dered in any court of record, or any real estate levied upon to satisfy any judg
ment or decree of any kind, may redeem the same from the lien of such decree or
levy at any time before the sale of the same shall be confirmed by a court of
competent jurisdiction by paying into court the amount of such decree or judg
ment, together with all interests and costs ; and in case the said real estate has
been sold to any person not a party plaintiff to the suit, the person so redeeming
the same shall pay to said purchaser twelve per cent, interest on the amount of
the purchase price from the date of sale to the date of redemption, or deposit
the same with the clerk of the court where the decree or judgment was rendered.
[1875,57.]
Sec. 498. [Confirmation of sale.] —If the court upon the return of any writ
of execution or order of sale for the satisfaction of which any lands and tenements'
have been sold, shall, after having carefully examined the proceedings of the officer,
be satisfied that the sale has in all respects been made in conformity to the provisions
of this title, the court shall direct the clerk to make an entry on the journal that
the court is satisfied of the legality of such sale, and an order that the officer make
to the purchaser a deed of such lands and tenements ; and the officer on mak
ing such sale may retain the purchase money in his hands until the court shall
have examined his proceedings as aforesaid, when he shall pay the same to the
person entitled thereto, agreeable to the order of the court ; Provided, That the
judge of any district court may confirm any such sale at any time after such
officer has made his return, on motion and ten days notice to the adverse party or
his attorney of record, if made in vacation. When any sale is confirmed in vaca
tion, the judge confirming the same shall cause his order to be entered on the
journal by the clerk. [Amended 1875, 88. Took effect Feb. 25, 1875.]
Sec. 499. [Deed to purchaser.] —The sheriff or other officer, who, upon
such writ or writs of execution, shall sell the said lands and tenements, or any part
thereof, shall make to the purchaser or purchasers thereof, as good arid sufficient
a deed of conveyance of lands and tenements sold as the person or persons against
whom such writ or writs of execution were issued could have made of the same, at
the time they became liable to the judgment, or at any time thereafter.
Sec. 500. [Same—Estate conveyed.] — The deed shall be sufficient
evidence of the legality of such sale and the proceedings therein until the con
trary be proved, and shall vest in the purchaser' as good and as perfect an estatein
the premises therein mentioned as was vested in the party, at or after the time
when such lands and tenements became liable to the satisfaction of thejudgment.
And such deed of conveyance, to be made by the sheriff or other officer, shall
recite the execution or executions, or the substance thereof, and the names of the
parties, the amount, and date of term of rendition of each judgment, by virtue
whereof the said lands and tenements were sold as aforesaid ; and shall be exe
cuted, acknowledged, and recorded as is or may be provided by law, to perfect, the
conveyance of real estate in other cases.
Sec. 501. [Fees of officers—When paid.] —The officer who levies upon
goods and chattels, or lands and tenements, or who is charged with the duty of
selling the same by virtue of any writ or execution, may refuse to publish a notice
of the sale thereof by advertisement in a newspaper until the party for whose ben
efit such execution issued, his agent or attorney, shall advance to such officer so
much money as will be sufficient to discharge the fees of the printer for publishing
such notice.
Sec. 502. [Same.] —Before any officer shall be excused from giving the noti
fication mentioned in the last section, he shall demand of the party for whose
benefit the execution was issued, his agent or attorney, (provided either of them
resides in the county), the fees in said section specified.
Sec. 508. [Sale, where held.] —All sales of lands or tenements under
execution shall be held at the court house, if there be one in the county in which
such lands and tenements are situated, and if there be no courthouse, then at the
door of the house in which the district court was last held. No sheriff or other
officer making the sale of property, either personal or real, or any appraiser of
such property shall, either directly or indirectly, purchase the same ; and every
purchase so made shall be considered fraudulent and void.
Sec. 504. [Other writs.] —If lands and tenements levied on as aforesaid
are not sold upon one execution, other executions may be issued to sell the lands
bo levied upon.
Sec. 505. [Several writs, how served.] —In all cases when two or more
executions shall be put into the hands of any sheriff or other officer, and it shall
be necessary to levy on real estate to satisfy the same, and either of the judgment
creditors in whose favor one or more of said executions is issued, shall require the
sheriff, or other officer, to make a separate levy to satisfy his execution or execu
tions, it shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other officer, to levy said executions,
or so many thereof as may be required, on separate parcels of real property
of the judgment debtor or debtors, giving to the officer making the levy on
behalf of the creditor, whose execution may, by the provisions of this chapter,
be entitled to a preference, the choice of such part of the real property of the
judgment debtor or debtors, as will be sufficient, at two-thirds of the appraised
value, to satisfy the same. And in all cases where two or more executions, which
are entitled to no preference over each other, are put into the hands of the same
officer, it shall be the duty of the officer, when required, to levy the same on sepa
rate parcels' of the real property of the judgment debtor or debtors, when, in the
opinion of the appraisers, the same may be divided without material injury ; and
ir the real property of said debtors will not be sufficient, at two-thirds of its ap
praised value, to satisfy all the executions chargeable thereon, such part of the
same shall be levied on to satisfy each execution as will bear the same proportion
in value to the whole as the amount due on the execution bears to the amount of
all the executions chargeable thereon, as near as may be, according to the ap
praised value of each separate parcel of said real property.
Sec. 506. [Deed by sheriff's successor.]—If the term of service of the
sheriff, or other officer, who has made or shall hereafter make sale of any lands
and tenements, shall expire, or if the sheriff or other officer shall be absent, or be
rendered unable, by death or otherwise, to make a deed of conveyance of the same,
any succeeding sheriff, or other officer, on receiving a certificate from the court
from which the execution issued, for the sale of said lands and tenements, signed
by the clerk, by order of said court, setting forth that sufficient proof has been
made to the court that such sale was fairly and legally made, and, on tender
of the purchase money, or if the same or any part thereof be paid, then, on proof
of such payment and tender of the balance, if any, may execute to the said pur
chaser or purchasers, or his or their legal representatives, a deed of conveyance
of said lands and tenements so sold. Such deed shall be as good and valid in
law, and have the same effect, as if the sheriff or other officer who made sale had
executed the same.
Sec. 507. [Proceeds of sale—Disposition.] —If, on any sale made as
aforesaid, there shall be in the hands of the sheriff, or other officer, more money
than is sufficient to satisfy the writ or writs, of execution, with interest and costs,
the sheriff or other officer shall, on demand, pay the balance to the defendant in
execution, or his legal representatives.
Sec. 508. TRevei'sal of judgment—Title of purchaser.]—If any
judgment or judgments, in satisfaction of which any lands or tenements are sold,
shall at any time thereafter be reversed, such reversal shall not defeat or affect
the title of the purchaser or purchasers ; but, in such case, restitution shall be
made by the judgment creditor, of the moneys for which such lands or tenements
were sold, with lawful interest from the day of sale.
Sec. 509. [Lien lost if execution not issued.] —No judgment hereto
fore rendered, or which hereafter may be rendered, on which execution shall not
have been taken out and levied before the expiration of five years next after its
rendition, shall operate as a lien upon the estate of any debtor, to the preference
of any other bona fide judgment creditor; but in all cases where judgment has
been or may be rendered in the supreme court, and a special mandate awarded
to the district court to carry the same into execution, the lien of the judgment
creditor shall continue for five years after the first day of the next term of the dis
trict court, to which such mandate may be directed. Nothing in this section
contained shall be construed to defeat the hen of any judgment creditor, who shall
fail to take out execution and cause a levy to be made as herein provided, when
such failure shall be occasioned by appeal, proceedings in error, injunction, or
by a vacancy in the office of sheriff and coroner, or the inability of such
officer, until one year after such disability shall be removed. In all cases
where real estate has been or may hereafter be taken on execution, and appraisal,
[appraisedl and twice advertised and offered for sale, and shall remain unsold for
want of bidders, it shall be the duty of the court from which such execution issued,
■on application of the plaintiff to set aside such appraisement and order a new
one to be made, or to set aside such levy and appraisement and award a new exe
cution to issue, as the case may require. [Amended to take effect Feb. 27, 1878.
G. S. 618.]
Sec. 510. [Return of writ.]—The sheriff or other officer, to whom any
writ of execution shall be directed, shall return such writ to the court to which
the same is returnable, within sixty days from the date thereof.
Sec. 611. [Judgment against principal and surety—How ren
dered.] —In all cases where judgment is rendered in any court of record within
this state, upon any other instrument of writing, in which two or more persons are
jointly and severally bound, and it shall be made to appear to the court, by parol
or other testimony, that one or more of said persons so bound signed the same as
surety or bail for his or their co-defendant, it shall be the duty of the clerk of
said court, in recording the judgment thereon, to certify which of the defendants
is principal debtor, and which are sureties or bail. And the clerk of the court
aforesaid shall issue execution on such judgment, commanding the sheriff or
other officer to cause the money to be made of the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, of the principal debtor, but for want of sufficient property of the prin-
oipal debtor to maice the same, that he cause the same to be made of the goods
and chattels, lands and tenements, of the surety or bail. In all cases the prop-
-erty, both personal and real, of the principal debtor, within the jurisdiction of the
•court, shall be exhausted before any of the property of the surety or bail shall be
taken in execution.
Sec. 512. [Appraisers—Fees—Refusal to serve.]—Each freeholder,
summoned to appraise real estate under the provisions of this chapter, shall be
allowed and receive for his services the sum of fifty cents, for each day he may
be so engaged as such appraiser, to be collected on the execution, by virtue of
which the property appraised was levied on, if claimed at the time of making the
return of such appraisement. And when any freeholder, summoned as aforesaid,
shall fail to appear at the time and place appointed by the officer, and discharge
his duty as appraiser, he shall, on complaint being made to any justice of the
peace of the precinct in which such freeholder resides, forfeit and pay the sum of
fifty cents for every such neglect, unless he can render a reasonable excuse. Such
sum shall be collected by said justice, and paid into the county treasury for the
use of the county.
Sec. 518. [Sheriff—Neglect of duty.] —If any sheriff or other officer shall
refuse or neglect to execute any writ of execution to him directed, which has come
to his hands ; or shall neglect or refuse to sell any goods and chattels, lands, and
tenements ; or shall neglect to call an inquest and return a copy thereof forthwith
to the clerk s office ; or shall neglect to return any writ of execution to the proper
court, on or before the return day thereof ; or shall neglect to return a just and
perfect inventory of all and singular the goods and chattels by him taken in exe
cution, unless the said sheriff or other officer shall return, that he has levied and
made the amount of the debt, damages and costs ; or shall refuse or neglect on de
mand to pay over to the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney of record, all moneys by
him collected or received, for the use of said party, at any time after collecting or
receiving the same, except as provided in section four hundred and ninety-eight ;
or shall neglect or refuse, on demand made by the defendant, his agent, or attor
ney of record, to pay over all moneys by him received for any sale made, beyond
what is sufficient to satisfy the writ or writs of execution, with interest and legal
•costs, such sheriff or other officer shall, on motion in court and two days notice
thereof in writing, be amerced in the amount of said debt, damages and costs,
with ten per centum thereon, to and for the use of said plaintiff or defendant, as
the case may be.
Sec. 514. [Clerk—Neglect of duty—Amercement.]—If any clerk of a
court shall neglect or refuse, on demand made by the person entitled thereto, his
agent or attorney of record, to pay over all money by him received, in his official
capacity, for the use of such person, every such clerk may be amerced ; and the
proceedings against him and his sureties shall be the same as provided for in the
foregoing section against sheriffs and their sureties.
Sec. 515. [Amercement—Amount.] —When the cause of amercement is
for refusing to pay over money collected as aforesaid, the said sheriff or other officer
shall not be amerced in a greater sum than the amount so withheld, with ten per
centum thereon.
Sec. 516. [Execution to another county—Return by mail.] —When
execution shall be issued in any county in this state, and directed to the sheriff or
coroner of another county, it shall be lawful for such sheriff or coroner having the
execution, after having discharged all the duties required of him by law, to inclose
such execution, by mail, to the clerk of the court who issued the same. On proof
being made by such sheriff or coroner that the execution was mailed soon enough
to have reached the office where it was issued within the time prescribed by law,
the sheriff or coroner shall not be liable for any amercement or penalty, if it do
not reach the office in due time.
Sec. 517. [Money made—How returned by mail,]— No sheriff shall
forward by mail any money made on any such execution, unless he shall.be specially
instructed to do it by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney of record. In all cases
of a motion to amerce a sheriff or other officer of any county other than the one
from which the execution issued, notice in writing shall be given to such officerr
as hereinbefore required, by leaving it with him, or at his office, at least fifteen
days before the first day of the term at which such motion shall be made, or by
transmitting the notice by mail at least sixty days prior to the first day of the
term at which such motion shall be made. All amercements, so procured, shall
be entered on the record of the court, and shall have the same force and effect as
a judgment.
Sec. 518. [Surety of officers — Party to amercement.]— Each and
every surety of any sheriff or other officer may be made a party to the judgment
as rendered as aforesaid, against the sheriff or other officer, by action, to be com
menced and prosecuted as in other cases. But the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements of any such surety shall not be liable to be taken on execution, when
sufficient goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the sheriff or other officer,
against whom execution may be issued, can be found to satisfy the same. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent either party from proceeding against such sheriff
or other officer by attachment, at his election.
Sec. 519. [Same—Benefit of uncollected judgment.]—In cases where
a sheriff or other officer may be amerced, and shall not have collected the amount
of the original judgment, he shall be permitted to sue out an execution, and colleet
the amount of said judgment .in the name of the original plaintiff, for his own use.
EXEMPTIONS.
Sec. 520. [Repealed 1875, 88.]
Sec. 521. [Personal property of head of family.]— All heads of fam
ilies, who have neither lands, town lots or houses subject to exemption as a home
stead, under the laws of this state, shall have exempt from forced sale on execu
tion the sum of five hundred dollars in personal property.
Sec. 522. [Same—How obtained.] —Any person desiring to avail himself,
of the exemption as provided for in the preceding section, must file an inventory,
under oath, in the court where the judgment is obtained, or with the officer hold
ing the execution, of the whole of the personal property owned by him or them
at any time before the sale of the property ; and it shall be the duty of the officer
to whom the execution is directed, to call to his assistance three disinterested
freeholders of the county where the property may be, who, after being duly- sworn
by said officer, shall appraise said property at its cash value.
Sec. 528. [Same.] —Upon such inventory and appraisement being completed,
the defendant in execution, or his authorized agent, may select from such inven
tory an amount of such property, not exceeding, according to such appraisal, the
amount or value herein exempted, but if neither such defendant, nor his agent
shall appear and make such selection, the officer shall make the same for him.
Sec. 524. [From taxation.] —Nothing in this subdivision shall be consid
ered as exempting any real or personal property from levy and sale for taxes.
Sec. 525-528 * [Repealed 1875, 48.J
Sec. 529. [Same.]—Nothing in this subdivision shall be considered as ex
empting any real estate from taxation or sale for taxes.
Sec. 580. [Articles of personalty.] —No property hereinafter mentioned
shall be liable to attachment, execution, or sale, on any final process issued from
any court in this state, against any person being a resident of this state and the
head of a family. First. The family bible. Second. Family pictures, school
books, and library for the use of the family. Third. A seat or pew in any house or
place of public worship. Fourth. A lot in any burial ground. Fifth. All nec
essary wearing apparel of the debtor and his family. All beds, bedsteads, and
bedding necessary for the use of such family. All stoves and appendages put up
or kept for the use of the debtor and his family, not to exceed four. All cooking
utensils, and all other household furniture not herein enumerated, to be selected
by the debtor, not exceeding in value one hundred dollars. Sixth. One cow, three
hogs, and all pigs under six months old, and if the debtor be at the time actually
engaged in the business of agriculture, in addition to the above, one yoke of oxen,
or a pair of horses in lieu thereof ; ten sheep, and the wool therefrom, either in
the raw material or manufactured into yarn or cloth ; the necessary food for the
stock mentioned in this section, for the period of three months ; one wagon, cart
or dray, two plows and one drag; the necessary gearing for the team herein ex
empted; and other farming implements not exceeding fifty dollars in value.
Seventh. The provisions for the debtor and his family necessary for six months'
support, either provided or growing, or both, and fuel necessary for six months.
Eighth. The tools and instruments of any mechanic, miner or other person, used
and kept for the purpose of carrying on bis trade or business. The library and
implements of any professional man. All of which articles hereinbefore intended
to be exempt, shall be chosen by the debtor, his agent, clerk or legal representa
tive, as the case may be .
Sec. 581. [Wages — Money due from attorney — Necessaries.]—
Nothing in this chapter shall be so construed as to exempt any property in this
state from execution or attachment for clerks', laborers', or mechanics' wages for
money due and owing by any attorney at law for money or other valuable consid
eration received by said attorney for any person or persons; nor shall any thing
in this chapter be construed to exempt from execution or attachment property of
the value of more than five hundred ($500) dollars for any debt contracted by any
5>erson in the purchase of the actual necessaries of life for himself or family or
or any person or persons, who were at the time of contracting such debt depend
ent upon such person purchasing the same for support ; Provided, That where
the^debt contracted therefor shall be deemed the deot of both husband and wife;
And provided further, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to ex
empt in the aggregate more than five hundred ($500) dollars worth of personal prop
erty to both husband and wife. [Laws 1887, chap. 95. Took effect July 1, 1887.]
Sec. £81 a. [Same—Mechanic's wages.]—The wages of laborers, me
chanics, and clerks who are heads of families, in the hands of those by whom such,
laborers, mechanics, or clerks may be employed, both before and after such wages
shall be due, shall be exempt from the operation of attachment, execution, and
garnishee process: Provided, That not more than sixty days' wages shall be ex
empt ; Provided further, That nothing in this act shall be so construed as to pro
tect the wages of persons who have or are about to abscond or leave the state from
the provisions of law now in force upon that Bubject ; Providedfurther, That noth
ing in this act shall be so construed as to permit the attachment of sixty days
wages in the hands of the employer. [G. S. 715.]
Sec. 581 b. [Exemptions—Pension moneys.]—That in addition to the
exemptions now provided for by the code of civil procedure, there shall also be ex
empt from levy and sale upon execution or attachment, to every resident of the
state of Nebraska, who became disabled in the service of the United States as a
soldier, sailor or marine, all pension money hereafter received and all property
hereafter purchased and improved exclusively therewith, not exceeding two thous
and ($2,000) dollars in value, of and belonging to such soldier, sailor or marine.
[Laws 1887, chap. 101.]
PROCEEDINGS IN AID OF EXECUTION.
Sec. 582. [Interest of debtor subjected.]—Where a judgment debtor
has not personal or real property subject to levy on execution, sufficient to satisfy
the judgment, any interest which he may have in any banking, turnpike, bridge
or other joint stock company, or any interest he may have in any money, con
tracts, claims, or choses in action, due or to become due to him, or in any judg
ment or decree, or any money, goods or effects which he may have in possession
of any person, body-politic or corporate, shall be subject to the payment of such
judgment by proceedings in equity, or as in this chapter prescribed.
Sec. 538. [Order to disclose property.]—When an execution against
the property of a judgment debtor, or one of several debtors in the same judg
ment, is issued to the sheriff of a county where he resides, or, if he do not reside
in the state, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment was rendered, or a
transcript of a justice's judgment has been filed, is returned unsatisfied in whole
or in part, the judgment creditor is entitled to an order from a probate judge or
a judge of the district court of the county to which the execution was issued, re
quiring such debtor to appear and answer concerning his property, before such
judge, or referee appointed by such judge, at a time and place specified in such
order, within the county to which the execution was issued.
Sec. 584. [Same—How obtained.] —After the issuing of an execution
against property, and upon proof by affidavit of the judgment creditor or otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the district court, or a judge thereof, or a probate judge of the
county in which the order may be served, that the judgment debtor has property
which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment,"sucn
court or judge may, by order, require the judgment creditor to appear at a time
and place in said county to answer concerning the same. And such proceedings
may thereupon be had for the application of the property of the judgment debtor
towards the satisfaction of the judgment as are prescribed in this chapter.
Sec. 685 . [Same—Arrest of debtor.] —Instead of the order requiring the
attendance of the judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the judge
may, upon proof to his satisfaction, by affidavit of the party, or otherwise, that
there is danger of the debtor leaving the state or concealing himself to avoid the
examination herein mentioned, issue a warrant, requiring the sheriff to arrest
him and bring him before such judge within the county in which the debtor may
be arrested. Such warrant can be issued only by a probate judge or a judge of
the district court of the county in which such debtor resides or may be arrested.
Upon being brought before the judge, he shall be examined on oath, and other
witnesses may be examined on either side, and if on such examination it appear
that there is danger of the debtor leaving the state, and that he has property
which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, he may be ordered to enter
into an undertaking, in such sum as the judge may prescribe, with one or more
sureties, that he will from time to time attend for examination before the j udge or ref
eree as shall be directed. In default of entering into such undertaking, he may be
committed to the jail of the county by warrant of the judge, as for a contempt.
SEC. 536. [Criminating answers.] —No person shall, on examination pur
suant to this chapter, be excused from answering any question on the ground that
his examination will tend to convict him of a fraud, but his answer shall not be
used as evidence against him in a prosecution for such fraud.
Seo. 587. [Payment by debtor's debtor.]—After the issuing of execu
tion against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the
sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the
execution, and the sheriff 's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount
so paid or directed to be credited by the judgment creditor on the execution.
Seo. 538. [Examination of debtor's debtor.] —After the issuing or re
turn of an execution against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one of
several debtors in the same judgment, and upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to
the satisfaction of the judge, that any person or corporation has property of such
judgment debtor, or is indebted to him, the judge may, by an order, require such
person or corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to appear, at a specified
time and place, within the county in which such person or corporation may be
served with the order to answer, and answer concerning the same. The judge
may also, in his discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be given to any
party in the action, in such manner as may seem to him proper.
Seo. 639. [Same—Witnesses.] —Witnesses may be required, upon tbe or
der of the judge, or by a subpoena issued by the clerk of the district court, to ap
pear and testify upon any proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as
upon the trial of an issue.
Seo. 640. [Same.] —The party or witness may be required to attend before
the judge, or before a referee appointed by the couri or judge. If before a referee,
the examination must be taken by the referee, and certified by the judge. All
examinations and answers before a judge or referee under this chapter, must be
on oath, but when a corporation answers, the answer must be on the oath of an
office, thereof.
Sec. 641. [Same—Application of property.]—The judge may order
any property of the judgment debtor not exempt by law, in the hands of either
himself or any other person or corporation, or due to the judgment debtor, to be
applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment ; but the earnings of the debtor
for his personal services, at any time within three months next preceding the or
der, cannot be so applied, where it is made to appear by the debtor's affidavit, or
otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported
wholly or partly by his labor.
Seo. 5*2 [Receiver.] —The judge may also, by order, appoint the sheriff
of the proper county, or other suitable person, a receiver of the property of the
judgment debtor, in the same manner, and with the like authority as if the ap{>ointment
was made by the court. The judge may also, by order, forbid a trans-
er or other disposition of the property of the judgment debtor, not exempt by
law, and any interference therewith.
Sec. 548. [Same—Undertaking—Oath.]—If the sheriff shall be ap
pointed receiver, he and his sureties shall be liable on his official bond for the
faithful discharge of his duties as such receiver ; if any other person shall be ap
pointed receiver, he shall give a written undertaking in such sum as Bhall be pre
scribed by the judge, with one or more sureties, to the effect that he will faithfully
discharge his duties of receiver, and he shall also take an oath to the same effect
before acting as such receiver. The undertaking mentioned in this section shall
be to the state of Nebraska, and actions may be prosecuted for a breach thereof,
by any person interested, in the Bame manner as upon a sheriff's official bond.
Seo. 544. [Proceedings—Continuance.]—The judge or referee, acting
under the provisions of this chapter, shall have power to continue his proceedings,
from time to time until they are completed.
Seo. 545. [Reference:1, —The judge may, in his discretion, order a refer
ence to a referee agreed upon or appointed by him, to report the evidence of facts.
Sec. 546. [Disobedience of order.] —If any person, party or witness,
disobey an order of the judge, or referee, duly served, such person, party or wit
ness may be punished by the judge as for contempt ; and if a party, he shall be
committed to the jail of the county, wherein the proceedings are pending, until he
shall comply with such order ; or, in case he has, since the service of such order
upon him, rendered it impossible for him to comply therewith, until he has re
stored to the opposite party what such party has lost by such disobedience, or un
til discharged by due course of law. [Amended 1875, 89. Took effect Feb.4, 1875.]
Seo. 547. [Orders—Service-^Filing, etc.] —The orders to judgment
debtors and witnesses, provided for in this chapter, shall be in writing and signed
by the judge making the same, and shall be served as a summons in other cases.
The judge shall reduce all his orders to writing, which, together with a minute of
his proceedings, signed by himself, shall be filed with the clerk of the court of the
county in which the judgment is rendered, or the transcript of the justice filed,
and the clerk shall enter on his execution docket the time of filing the same.
Sec. 548. [Fees.] —The judge shall allow to clerks, sheriffs, referees, receiv
ers and witnesses, such compensation as is allowed for like services in other cases,
to be taxed as costs in the case, and shall enforce by order the collection thereof
from such party or parties as ought to pay the same.
Seo. 549. [Same.] —The probate judge shall be allowed for his services, un
der this chapter, the sum of three dollars in each case, and such fees as are al
lowed by law to clerks of the district court for similar services.
EXECUTION AGAINST THE PERSON.
Sec. 550. [Command of writ.]—An execution against the person of a
judgment debtor, shall require the officer to arrest such debtor and commit him to
the jail of the county until he pay the judgment, or be discharged according to law.
Sec. 551. [Causes for issuance.]—An execution against the person of
the debtor may be issued upon any judgment for the payment of money. First.
When the judgment debtor has removed, or begun to remove any of his property
out of the jurisdiction of the court, with intent to prevent the collection of the
money due on the judgment. Second. When he has property, rights in action,
evidences of debt, or some interest or stock in some corporation or company,
which he fraudulently conceals with like intent. Third. When he has assigned
or disposed of all, or any part of his property, or rights in action, or has convert
ed the same into money, with intent to defraud his creditors, or with the intent to
prevent such property from being taken into execution. Fourth. When he fraudu
lently contracted the debt, or incurred the obligation upon which the judgment
was rendered. Fifth. When he was arrested on an order before judgment, and
has not been discharged as an insolvent debtor, or the order has not been set aside
as improperly made.
Sec. 552. [Allowance.]—An execution against the person of the debtor can
be issued only when the same is allowed by the supreme court, district court, or
probate court, or any judge of either, upon being satisfied, by the affidavit of the
judgment creditor, or his attorney, and such other evidence as may be presented,
of the existence of one or more of the particulars mentioned in the last preceding section.
Sec. 558. [Same—By justice of peace]—A justice of the peace may is
sue an execution against the person of a judgment debtor, upon being satisfied of the
existence of one or more of the same particulars, by the like affidavit and evidence.
SEC. 554. [Issued of course—When.] —In all cases in which the judg
ment debtor was arrested before judgment, and where the order for such arrest
has not been adjudged improper, an execution against the person of such judg
ment debtor may issue of course.
Sec. 655. [Discharge from arrest—Delivery of property.] —Any
person taken in execution as aforesaid, shall be discharged by delivering or set
ting off to the officer serving the same, if issued from a court of record, real or
personal property, if issued from a justice of the peace, personal property only,
sufficient to satisfy the judgment and costs for which the writ issued.
Sec. 656. [Death of debtor.] —The death of a person under arrest in an
action does not satisfy the judgment, but an execution may issue thereon, as if
the arrest had been made.
Sec. 657. [Discharge.] —If a person imprisoned under an order of arrest
made before judgment, is not charged in execution within ten days after judg
ment, he shall be discharged from Buch imprisonment.
Sec. 658. [Same.]—In cases of commitment under this chapter, or upon ar
rest before or after judgment in civil cases, the person imprisoned, in case of his
inability to perform the act or endure the imprisonment may be discharged from
imprisonment by the court or judge committing him, or the court or judge thereof
in which the judgment was or might be rendered, on such terms as may be just.
EXECUTIONS FOR THE DELIVERY OF REAL PROPERTY.
Sec. 559. [Contents of writ.] —If the execution be for the delivery of the
possession of real property, it shall require the officer to deliver the same, partic
ularly describing the property, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the same
time require the officer to satisfy any costs or damages recovered in the same judg
ment, out of the goods and chattels of the party against whom it was rendered,
and for want of such goods and chattels, then out of the lands and tenements,
and in this respect it shall be deemed an execution against theproperty.
Sec. 560. [Judgment enforced by attachment.]— When the judgment
ib not for the recovery of money or real property, the same may be enforced by
attachment, by the court rendering the judgment, upon motion made, or by a rule
of the court upon the defendant ; but in either case, notice of the motion, or a
service of a copy of the rule shall be made on the defendant a reasonable time
before the order of attachment is made.
JUDGMENTS OF A JUSTICE OF THE PEACE.
Sec. 561. [Transcript filed in district court clerk's office.]— In all
cases in which judgment shall be rendered by a justice of the peace, the party in
whose favor the judgment shall be rendered may file a transcript of such judg
ment in the office of the clerk of the district court of the county in which the judg
ment was rendered, and thereupon the clerk shall, on the day on which the same
shall be filed, enter the case on the execution docket, together with the amount of
the judgment, and the time of filing the transcript.
Sec. 662. [Same—Lien.]— Such judgment, if the transcript shall be filed in
term time, shall have a lien on the real estate of the judgment debtor, from the
day of the filing; if filed in vacation, as against the judgment debtor, said judg
ment shall have a lien from the day of the filing, and as against subsequent judg
ment creditors from the first day of the next succeeding term, in the same manner,
and to the same extent as if the judgment had been rendered in the district court.
Sec. 563. [Execution upon.] —Execution may be issued thereon to the
sheriff by the clerk of the court, in the same manner as if the judgment had been
taken in court, and the sheriff shall execute and return the same as other execu
tions; and in case of sale of real estate, his proceedings shall be examined and
approved by the court, as in other cases.
SEC. 564. [Certificate of justice—Costs.]—The justice of the peace
shall certify on the transcript the amount, if any, paid on such judgment. The
costs of the transcript, the filing of the same and the entry of the case on the ex
ecution docket, shall be paid by the party filing the same, and not be taxed to the
other party.
TITLE XV. —Miscellaneous Proceedings.
OFFER TO COMPROMISE.
SEC. 565 . [Before trial— Eifect.] —The defendant in an action for the re
covery of money only, may, at any time before the trial, serve upon the plaintiff, or
his attorney, an offer in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for
the sum specified therein. If the plaintiff accept the offer, and give notice thereof
to the defendant or his attorney, witnin five days after the offer is served, the offer,
and an affidavit that the notice of acceptance was delivered in the time limited, may
be filed by the plaintiff, or the defendant may file the acceptance, with a copy of
the offer verified by affidavit ; and in either case, the offer and acceptance shall
be noted in the journal, and judgment shall be rendered accordingly. If the
notice of acceptance be not given, in the period limited, the offer 3hall be deemed
withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence, or mentioned on the trial. If the
plaintiff fails to obtain judgment for more than was offered by the defendant, he
' shall pay the defendant's costs from the time of the offer.
SEC. 566. [Same—Continuance.]—The making of an offer pursuant to
tne provisions contained in the foregoing section, shall not be a cause for a con
tinuance of an action, or a postponement of a trial.
SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY.
Sec. 567. [Submission without action.]—Parties to a question which
might be the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case con
taining the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of
the same to any court which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought.
But it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and the proceedings
in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The court shall thereupon
hear and determine the case and render judgment as if an action were pending.
Sec. 568. [Record.] —The case the submission and the judgment shall con.
stitute the record.
SEC. 569. [Judgment—Effect.] —The judgment shall be with costs, may
be enforced, and shall be subject to reversal, in the same manner as if it had been
rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided in the submission.
OFFER TO CONFESS JUDGMENT.
SEC. 570. [After action brought.] —After an action for the recovery of
money is brought, the defendant may offer in court to confess judgment for part
of the amount claimed, or part of the causes involved in the action. Whereupon,
if the plaintiff, being present, refuse to accept such confession of judgment in full
of his demands against the defendant in the action, or, having had such notice
that the offer would be made, of its amount, and of the time of making it, as the
court shall deem reasonable, fail to attend, and on the trial do not recover more
than was so offered to be confessed, such plaintiff shall pay all the costs of the de
fendant, incurred after the offer. The offer shall not be deemed to be an admis
sion of the cause of action or amount to which the plaintiff is entitled, nor be given
in evidence upon the trial.
Seo. 671. |Before action brought.] —Before any action for the recovery
of money is brought against any person, he may go into the court of the county
of his residence, or of that in which the person having the cause of action resides,
which would have jurisdiction of the action, and offer to confess judgment in favor
of such person for a specified sum on such cause of action. Whereupon, if such
person, naving bad such notice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and
of the time and place of making it, as the court shall deem reasonable, do not
attend to accept the confession, or attending, refuse to accept it, and should after
wards commence an action upon such cause, and not recover more than the amount
so offered to be confessed, he shall pay all the costs of the action ; and on the trial
thereof, the offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of action,
or amount to which the plaintiff is entitled, nor be given in evidence.
MOTIONS AND ORDERS.
Sec. 572. [Motion—Defined.] —A motion is an application for an order
addressed to the court or a judge in vacation, by any party to a suit or proceed
ing, or one interested therein.
Sec. 578. [Same—Several objects.]— Several objects may be included in
the same motion, if they all grow out of or are connected with the action or pro
ceeding in which it is made.
Sec. 674. [Same—Notice—Contents.]—Where notice of a motion is re
quired, it must be in writing, and shall state the names of the parties to the ac
tion or proceeding in which it is to be made, the name of the court or judge before
whom it is to be made, the place where and the day on which it will be heard, the
nature and terms of the order or orders to be applied for, and if affidavits are to
be used on the hearing, the notice shall state that fact. It shall be served a rea
sonable time before the hearing.
Sec. 575. [Notice—Service.] —Notices of motions mentioned in this chap
ter may be served by a sheriff, coroner, or constable, or by any disinterested per
son, and the return of any such officer, or affidavit of any such person, shall be
proof of service. The service shall be on the party or his attorney of record, if
the said party or his attorney be resident within the county in which the motion
is made, and in case there is more than one party adverse to such motion, service
shall be made upon each party or his attorney.
Sec. 676. [Same.] —The service of a notice shall be made, as is required by
law for the service of a summons, and when served by an officer, he shall be enti
tled to like fees.
Seo. 577. [Motions to strike pleadings from files.]—Motions to
strike pleadings and papers from the files may be made with or without notice, as
the court or judge shall direct.
SEC. 578. [Order—Defined.]—Every direction of a court or judge made,
entered in writing and not included in a judgment, is an order.
SEC. 679. [Same—Out of court—Entry.]— Orders made out of court,
shall be forthwith entered by the clerk in the journal of the court, in the same
manner as orders made in term.
TITLE XVI.-Errors in Crra, Cases,
proceedings to reverse, vacate or modify judgments and orders in courts of
appellate jurisdiction.
Sec. 580. [Tribunals inferior to district court.]—A judgment renBEC.
572. In proceedings under eec. 82, service of notice upon attorney for plaintiff is sufficient service
dered, or final order made, by a probate court, Justice of the peace, or any other tri
bunal, board, or officer exercising judicial functions, and inferior in jurisdiction
to the district court, may be reversed, vacated, or modified by the district court.
Sec. 581. [Final order—Defined.]—An order affecting a substantial right
in an action, when such order in effect determines the action and prevents a
judgment, and an order affecting a substantial right made in a special proceed
ing, or upon a summary application in an action after judgment, is a final order
which may be vacated, modified or reversed, as provided in this title.
Sec. 582. [Of district court.] —A judgment rendered or final order made
by the district court, may be reversed, vacated or modified by the supreme court,
for errors appearing on the record.
Sec. 588. [Repealed 1877, 14 ]
Sec. 584. [Proceedings on error in supreme court.] —The proceed
ings to obtain such reversal, vacation, or modification, shall be by petition enti
tled "petition in error," filed in a court having power to make such reversal, va
cation or modification, setting forth the errors complained of, and thereupon a sum
mons shall issue and be served, or publication made, as in the commencement of
,an action. A service on the attorney of record in the original case shall be suffi
cient. The Bummons shall notify the adverse party that a petition in error has
been filed in a certain case, naming it, and shall be returnable on or before the
first day of the next term of court, if issued in vacation, and twenty day3 before
the commencement of the term ; if issued in term time, or within twenty days be
fore the commencement of the term, it Bhall be returnable on a day named in said
summons. In all cases in the supreme court, if a case be docketed twenty days
or more before the next succeeding term it shall stand for bearing at said term.
If less tban twenty days intervene tbe cause sball not stand for trial, except by
consent of all tbe parties tbereto, until tbe second term after tbe docketing of said
cause, except causes brougbt before tbe court in tbe exercise of its original juris
diction. [Amended 1885, cbap. 95.]
Sec. 585. [Summons in error.] —Tbe summons mentioned in tbe last sec
tion, sball, upon tbe written precipe of the plaintiff in error, or bis attorney, be
issued by the clerk of tbe court in which tbe petition is bled, to tbe sheriff of any
county in which the defendant in error or his attorney of record may be ; and if the
writ issue to a foreign county, the sheriff thereof may return tbe same by mail to the
clerk, and shall be entitled to tbe same fees as if the same had been returnable to
tbe district court of the county in which such officer resides. The defendant in
error, or his attorney may waive in writing the issuing or service of the summons.
Sec. 686. [Transcript].—The plaintiff in error shall file with his petition
a transcript of the proceedings containing tbe final judgment or order sought to
be reversed, vacated, or modified. No written or printed abstract or any copy of
an abstract of the record shall be required in any case in tbe supreme court
of thiB state. Sec. 2. This act shall apply to cases now pending in the supreme
court. [Amended 1887, chap. 96. Took effect July 1, 1887.]
Sec. 687. [Same—How furnished.]—Judges of probate courts, justices of
the peace, and other judicial tribunals having no clerk, and clerks of every court
of record, shall, upon request and being paid the lawful fees therefor, furnish an
authenticated transcript of the proceedings, containing the judgment or final or
der of said courts, to either of the parties to tbe same, or to any person interested
in procuring such transcript.
Sec. 587 a. [Original bills of exceptions may be used.]—Sec. 1. That
in all cases or proceedings now pending or hereafter to be brought in any district
court/)f this state.as well as in all cases or proceedings that have been finally adjudi
cated in any of said courts within six months next prior to the date of the passage
of this act, which it is sought or desired to remove to the supreme court of this
state, on proceedings in error, or by appeal in equity in the manner now prescribed
by law, it shall not be necessary to copy the bill, or bills of exception, or the deposi
tion, testimony and proof in cases that have been preserved in form similar to
bills of exception or otherwise, as contemplated by an act passed March 8, 1878,
entitled, "An act to provide for appeals in actions in equity," taken or used in
any such case or proceedings into the transcript or record for the supreme court,
but such original bills of exception and testimony in equity and cases at law bo
as aforesaid preserved, shall be, on the request of any party desiring to so prose
cute such case or proceeding to the Bupreme court, attached to the transcript or
record of such other parts of the record in the case or proceeding as may be
desired by such party, and the transcript or record for the supreme court, so
made up shall be received in all respects as if the said bill or bills of exceptions or
depositions, testimony and proof in equity cases so as aforesaid properly pre
served were copied into such transcript or record for the supreme court. [1885,
chap. 96.]
Seo. 687 b. [Certificate of clerk.]— Seo. 2. And it is further enacted
that when the original bill or bills of exceptions or testimony in equity and law
cases, is so as aforesaid made a part of a transcript or record for the supreme
court, the clerk shall state such fact in his certificate thereto, and omit to certify
that ths same have been copied into such record or transcript. [Id.]
Seo. 687 c. [Original returned after trial.]— Sec 8. When any case
or proceeding in which the record or transcript has been so as aforesaid made up,
shall have been finally determined in the supreme court, the said original bill or
bills of exception, and testimony, shall be by the clerk of the supreme court
transmitted to the clerk of the district court below, whence such case or proceed
ing was removed, on the request of any party to the suit or proceeding, provided
the cost of the transmittal thereof shall be first paid to said clerk of the supreme
court if he shall demand it, by the party applying therefor.
Seo. 687 d. [Rehearing.] —Sec. 4. In the event a rehearing of any such
cause or proceeding shall be allowed by the supreme court, or if for any other
reason said court shall need or desire the use of such original bill or bills of ex
ception or testimony in equity and law cases, it is hereby authorized to order the
return of the same to it, and it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court in whose
custody the same may be to transmit the same to the clerk of the supreme court
upon being personally served with a copy of such order of the supreme court, duly
certified under the seal of the court, and the expense of the transmittal of such
bills and testimony, together with costs made in recording, certifying and serving
such order shall be taxed to the unsuccessful party to such suit or proceeding un
less the supreme court shall otherwise order ; Provided, That the party at whose
instance such expense of transmittal is to be made shall advance the same to the
clerk who is desired to incur such expenses if required by him. Service of such
certified copy of said order may be made by any person. If done by the sheriff of
any county, his official return shall be sufficient evidence of the fact of service.
If by any other person, the service shall be sufficiently proved by his affidavit to
the fact. [1885, chap. 96.]
Sec. 588. [Stay of execution.] —No proceeding to reverse, vacate, or mod
ify any judgment or final order rendered in the probate court, or district court,
except as provided for in the next section, and the fourth subdivision of this sec
tion, shall operate to stay execution, unless the clerk of the court in which the
record of said judgment or final order shall be, shall take a written undertaking, to be
executed on the part of the plaintiff in error to the adverse party, with one or more
sufficient sureties, as follows : First. When the judgment or final order sought to
be reversed, directs the payment of money, the written undertaking shall be in
double the amount of the judgment or order, to the effect that the plaintiff in
error will pay the consideration money and costs in case the judgment or final or
der shall be affirmed in whole or in part. Second. When it directs the .execution
of a conveyance or other instrument, the undertaking shall be in such sum as
may be prescribed by any court of record in this state, orany judge thereof, to the
effect that the plaintiff in error will abide the j udgment, if the same shall be affirmed,
and pay the costs. Third. When it directs the sale or delivery of possession of real
property, the undertaking shall be in such sum as may be prescribed by any court
of record or any judge thereof, to the effect that during the possession of such
property by the plaintiff in error, he will not commit or suffer to be committed,
any waste thereon, and if the judgment be affirmed he will pay the value of the
use and occupation of the property, from the date of the undertaking until the deliv
ery of the possession pursuant to the judgment, and all costs. Fourth. When
it directs the assignment or delivery of documents, they may be placed in the cus
tody of the clerk of the court in which judgment was rendered, to abide the judg
ment of the appellate court, or the undertaking may be in such sum as may be
prescribed as aforesaid, to abide the judgment and pay costs, if the same shall be
affirmed. [Amended 1875, 181. Took effect Feb. 25, 1875.]
Sec. 589. [Same—Instrument deposited in court.] —Instead of the
undertaking prescribed in the second subdivision of the last section, the convey
ance or other instrument may be executed and deposited with the clerk of the
court in which the judgment was rendered or order made, to abide the judgment
of the appellate court.
Seo. 690. [Same—When takes effect.] —Before the written undertaking
herein mentioned in section five hundred and eighty-eight, shall operate to stay
execution of the judgment or order, a petition in error must be filed in the appel
late court, and the execution of the undertaking and the sufficiency of the sureties,
must be approved by the court in which the judgment was rendered or order
made, or by the clerk thereof ; and the clerk shall endorse said approval, signed
by himself, upon the undertaking, and file the same in his office for the defend
ant in error. [Amended to take effect Sept. 1, 1878. G. S. 680.]
Seo. 591. [Judgment, how enforced when error taken.]—In an
action arising on contract, for the payment of money only, notwithstanding the
execution of the undertaking in the last section mentioned, to stay proceedings, if
the defendant in error give adequate security to make restitution in case the
judgment is reversed or modified, he may, upon leave obtained from the court be
low, or a judge thereof in vacation, proceed to enforce the judgment. Such se
curity must be an undertaking executed to the plaintiff in error by at least two
sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the judgment be reversed or modified, he
■will make full restitution to the plaintiff in error of the money by him received
under the judgment.
Sec. 592. [When commenced—Limitation.]—No proceedings for re
versing, vacating, or modifying judgments or final orders, shall be commenced un
less within one year after the rendition of the judgment, or making of the final
order complained of, or in case the person entitled to such proceedings be an in-
fant, a person of unsound mind, or imprisoned, within one year as aforesaid, ex
clusive of the time of such disability ; Provided, That the provisions of this act
shall only apply to judgments or decrees rendered after the date" of its taking ef
fect. [1875, 40. Amended 1877, 14. Took effect June 1, 1877.]
Sec. 598. [Stay of execution — Undertaking.] —No proceedings to
reverse, vacate, or modify any judgment rendered, or final order made, by a jus
tice of the peace, shall operate as a stay of execution, unless the clerk of the dis
trict court shall take a written undertaking to the defendant in error, executed on
the part of the plaintiff in error, by one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect
that the plaintiff will pay all the costs which have accrued or may accrue on such
roceedings in error, together with the amount of any judgment that may be renered
against such plaintiff in error, either on the further trial of the case, after
the judgment of the court below shall have been set aside or reversed, or upon
and after the affirmance thereof in the district court. Nor shall said proceedings
operate as a stay of execution on judgments of restitution rendered in actions for
the forcible entry and detention, or the forcible detention only, of lands and ten
ements, unless a further undertaking shall be taken in the manner aforesaid, con
ditional for the payment to the defendant in error of all money or sums of money
that has accrued or may accrue to said defendant from the plaintiff in error for
the use, occupation, or rent of the lands and tenements in controversy, in case
the judgment sought to be reversed, shall be affirmed. [Amended 1871, 110.
Took effect Mar. 25, 1871.]
Sec. 594. [Proceedings in supreme court on reversal—Mandate-]
—When a judgment or final order shall be reversed either in whole or in part, in
the supreme court, the court reversing the same shall proceed to render such
judgment as the court below should have rendered, or remand the cause to the
court below for such judgment ; and the court reversing such judgment or final
order, shall not issue execution in causes that are removed before them on error,
on which they pronounced judgment as aforesaid, but shall send a special man
date to the court below, as the case may require, to award execution there
upon ; and it shall be the duty of the judges of the supreme court to prepare
and file their opinion in every case as brought before them, within sixty days after
the decision of the same, and no mandate shall be sent to the court below until
the opinion provided for by this section has been filed. The court to which such
special mandate iB sent, shall proceed in such case in the same manner as if such
judgment or final order had been rendered therein, and on motion and good
cause shown, it may suspend any execution made returnable before it by order of
the supreme court, in the same manner as if such execution had been issued from
its own court, but such power shall not extend further than to stay proceedings
until the matter can be further heard by the supreme court. [Amended 1875, 40.
Took effect Feb. 25, 1875.]
Sec. 695. [Costs on error.] —When a judgment or final order is reversed,
the plaintiff in error shall recover his costs, and when reversed in part, and
affirmed in part, costs shall be equally divided between the parties.
Sec. 596. [No reasonable ground of error—Penalty.]—When a judg
ment or final order shall be affirmed in the supreme court, the said court shall
also render judgment against the plaintiff in error for five per cent, upon the
amount due from him to the defendant in error, unless the court shall enter upon
its minutes, that there was reasonable ground for the proceedings in error.
Sec. 597. [Mistake of clerk.] —A mistake, neglect, or omission of the
clerk shall not be a ground of error, until the same has been presented and acted
upon in the court in which the mistake, neglect, or omission occurred.
Sec. 598. [Premature judgment.]—Rendering judgment before the
action stood for trial according to the provisions of this code, shall be deemed a
clerical error. (
Sec. 699. [Certiorari writ abolished.]—Writs of error and certiorari to
reverse, vacate, or modify judgments or final orders in civil cases, are abolished,
but courts shall have the same power to compel, complete, and perfect transcripts
of the proceedings containing the judgment or final order sought to be reversed,
to be furnished, as they heretofore had under writs of error and certiorari.
Sec. 600. [Affirmance of justice's judgment.]—If the judgment of a
justice of the peace, taken on error as herein provided, to the district court, be
affirmed, it shall be the duty of such court to render judgment against the plain
tiff in error, for the costs of suit, and to award execution therefor ; and the
court shall thereupon order its clerk to certify its decision in the premises, to the
justice, that the judgment affirmed may be enforced, as if such proceedings in
error had not been taken ; or such court may award execution to carry into effect
the judgment of such justice, in the same manner as if such judgment had been
rendered in the district court.
Sec. 601. [Reversal of justice's judgment.]—When the proceedings
of a justice of the peace are taken on error to the district court, in manner afore
said, and the judgment or such justice shall be reversed or set aside, the court
shall render judgment of reversal, and for the costs that have accrued up to that
time, in favor of the plaintiff in error, and award execution therefor ; and the
cause shall be retained by the court for trial and final judgment as in cases of
appeal.
SEC. 601 a. [Complete record supreme court.]— Sec 12. A complete
record of every cause in the supreme court, as soon as it is finally determined,
shall be made by the clerk of such court. Such record shall consist of the peti
tion in error, the process and subsequent pleadings, and opinion of the court, but
shall not include the transcript of proceedings had in the district court. [G.
S. 713.]
PBOCEEDINGS TO BEVER8E, VACATE . OR MODIFY JUDGMENTS AND ORDERS IN THE COURTS
IN WHICH THEY ARE RENDERED.
SEC. 602. [District court—After term.]—A district court shall have
power to vacate or modify its own judgments or orders, after the term at which
such judgment or order was made : First. By granting a new trial of the cause,
within the time and in the manner prescribed in section three hundred and eigh
teen. Second. By a new trial granted in proceedings against defendants construc
tively summoned, as provided in section seventy-seven. Third. For mistake, neg
lect or omission of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order.
Fourth. For fraud practiced by the successful party in obtaining the judgment or
order. Fifth. For erroneous proceedings against an infant, married woman or
person of unsound mind, where the condition of such defendant does not appear
in the record, nor the error in the proceedings. Sixth. For the death of one of
the parties before the judgment in the action. Seventh. For unavoidable casualty
or misfortune, preventing the party from prosecuting or defending. Eighth. For
errors in a judgment shown by an infant in twelve months after arriving at full
age, as prescribed in section four hundred and forty-two. Ninth. For taking
judgments upon warrants of attorney, for more than was due to the plaintiff,
when the defendant was not summoned, or otherwise legally notified of the time
and place of taking such iudgment.
Sec. 603. [Same—Proceedings.]—The proceedings to vacate or modify the
judgment or order on the grounds mentioned in subdivisions four, five, six, seven,
eight and nine of the last preceding section, shall be by petition verified by affida
vit, setting forth the judgment or order, the grounds to vacate or modify it, and
the defense to the action, if the party applying was defendant. On. such petition
a summons shall issue and be served as in the commencement of an action ; Pro
vided, Such summons shall not issue in any case in which there is upon the min
utes of the court, or among the files of the case, a waiver of error by the party or
his attorney.^unless the court, or a judge thereof, shall endorse upon the petition
permission to issue such summons.
Sec. 604. [Correction of mistakes—Vacate judgment—When.]—
The proceedings to correct mistakes or omissions of the clerk, or irregularity in
obtaining a judgment or order, shall be by motion, upon reasonable notice to the
adverse party or his attorney in the action. The motion to vacate a judgment
because of its rendition before the action regularly stood for trial, can 1 e made
only in the first three days of the succeeding term.
Sec. 605. [Decision of court.] —The court may first try and decide upon
the grounds to vacate or modify a judgment or order, before trying or deciding
upon the validity of the defense or cause of action.
SEC. 606. [Judgment not vacated—When liens— Securities pre
served.] —A judgment shall not be vacated on motion or petition, until it is ad
judged that there is a valid defense to the action in which the judgment is ren
dered, or, if the plaintiff seeks its vacation, that there is a valid cause of action ;
and where a judgment is modified, all liens and securities obtained under it shall
be preserved to the modified judgment.
Sec. 607. [Injunction—Suspending proceedings.] —The party seek
ing to vacate or modify a judgment or order, may obtain an injunction suspend
ing proceedings on the whole or part thereof, which injunction may be granted
by the court, or any judge thereof, upon its being rendered probable, by affidavit
or by exhibition of the record, that the party is entitled to have such judgment or
order vacated or modified.
Sec. 608. [Same.] —When the judgment was rendered before the action
stood for trial, the suspension may be granted as provided in the last section, al
though no valid defense to the action is shown ; and the court shall make such
orders concerning the executions to be issued on the judgment, as shall give to
the defendant the same rights of delay he would have had if the judgment had
been rendered at the proper time.
Sec. 609. [When commenced — Limitation.] — Proceedings to vacate
or modify a judgment or order, for the causes mentioned in subdivision four, five
and seven of section six hundred and two, must be commenced within two years
after the judgment was rendered, or order made, unless the party entitled thereto
be an infant, married woman, or person of unsound mind, and then within two
years after removal of such disability. Proceedings for the causes mentioned in
subdivisions three and six of the same section, shall be within three years, and in
subdivision nine within one year, after the defendant hafl notice of the judgment.
Sec. 610. [Application to supreme and county courts.]— The pro
visions of this title subsequent to section six hundred and one, shall apply to the
supreme court and probate court, so far as the same may be applicable to the
judgments or final orders of such courts. The parties shall be limited to the same
time in which to commence proceedings ; and in estimating time, the probate court
shall, for this purpose, be considered as holding, in each year, three term* of four
months each, the first commencing on the first day of January of each year.
Sec. 611. [Cases pending in appellate court.] —CaseB pending in ap
pellate courts on writs of error or otherwise, when this code takes effect, shall be
conducted to final judgment, as if it had not been adopted, and the hens of judg
ments and decrees rendered when it takes effect shall be preserved.
TITLE XVII.—Costs.
Sec. 612. [Security—Non-resident plaintiff.]—In all cases in which
the plaintiff is a non-resident of the county in which the action is to be brought,
before commencing such action the plaintiff must furnish a sufficient surety
for costs. The surety must be a resident of the county where the action is to be
brought, and approved by the clerk. His obligation shall be complete, simply by
endorsing the summons, or signing his name on the complaint as security for
costs. He shall be bound for the payment of all costs, which may be adjudged
against the plaintiff in the court in which the action is brought, or in any other to
which it may be carried, and for costs of the plaintiff's witnesses, whether the
plaintiff obtam judgment or not.
Sec. 618. [Same—Failure—Action dismissed.]—An action in which
security for the costs is required by the last section, and has not been given
shall be dismissed on motion and notice by the defendant at any proper time
before judgment, unless in a reasonable time to be allowed by the court, such
security for costs be given.
Sec. 614. [Same—Plaintiff becoming non-resident.]—If the plaint
iff in an action after its commencement, become a non-resident of the county in
which it was brought, he shall give security for costs in the manner and under the
restrictions provided in the two preceding sections.
Sec. 615. [Additional security.] —In an action in which security for
costs has been given, the defendant may at any time before judgment, after reas
onable notice to the plaintiff, move the court for additional security on the part
of the plaintiff ; and if, on such motion, the court be satisfied that the surety
has removed from this state, or is not sufficient, the action may be dismissed,
unless, in a reasonable time to be fixed by the court, sufficient security be given by
plaintiff.
Sec. 616. [Judgment against surety for costs.] —After final judgment
has been rendered in an action in which securitiy for costs has been given, as
required by this chapter, the court, on motion of the defendant, or any other per
son having a right to such costs, or any part thereof, after ten days notice of such
motion, may enter up judgment in the name of the defendant, or his legal repre
sentatives, against the surety for costs, his executors or administrators, for the
amount of the costs adjudged against the plaintiff, or so much thereof as may be un
paid. Execution may be issued on such judgment, as in other cases, for the use
and benefit of the persons entitled to such costs.
Sec. 617. [Informers under penal statutes.] —If any informer, under
a penal statute, to whom the penalty, or any part thereof, if recovered, is given,
shall dismiss his suit or prosecution, or fail in the same, he shall pay all costs ac
cruing on such suit or prosecution unless he be an officer whose duty it is to com
mence the same.
Sec. 618. [Defendant disclaiming.] —Where defendants disclaim hav
ing any title or interest in land or other property, the subject matter of the action,
they shall recover their costs, unless for special reasons the" court decide otherwise.
Sec. 619. [Motions—Amendments.] — Unless otherwise provided by
statute, the costs of motions, continuances, amendments, and the like, shall be
taxed and paid as the court in its discretion may direct.
Sec. 620. [Plaintiff—Allowed of course.]—When it is not otherwise
provided by this and other statutes, costs shall be allowed of course to the plaint
iff, upon a judgment in his favor, in actions for the recovery of money only, or
for the recovery of specific real or personal property.
Sec. 821. [Same—Not allowed.] —If it shall appear that a justice of the
peace has jurisdiction of an action, and the same has been brought in any other
court, the plaintiff shall not recover costs ; and in all actions for libel, slander,
malicious prosecution, assault, assault and battery, false imprisonment, criminal
conversation, seduction, actions for nuisance, or against a justice of the peace
for miseonduct ir office, if the damages assessed be under five dollars, the plain
tiff shall not recover any costs.
Sec. 622. [Defendant—Allowed of course.]—Costs shall be allowed of
course to any defendant upon a judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned
in the last two sections.
Sec. 623. [Under control of court—When.]—In other actions the
eourt may award and tax costs, and apportion the same between the parties on
the same or adverse sides, as in its discretion it may think right and equitable.
Sec. 624. [Several actions on one instrument.] —Where several ac
tions are brought on one bill of exchange, promissory note, or other obligation or
instrument in writing, against several parties, who might have been joined as de
fendants in the same action, as allowed by section forty-four, no costs shall be
recovered by the plaintiff in more than one of such actions, if the parties proceed
ed against in the other actions were, at the commencement of the previous ac
tion, openly within the state.
SEC. 625. [Fees—Summons issued to another county.]—When a
summons is issued to another county than that in which the action or proceeding
is pending, it may be returned by mail, and the sheriff shall be entitled to the
same fees as if the summons had issued in the county of which he is sheriff.
Sec. 625 a. [Postponement of trial.] —Sec 1. That when an application
shall be made to a court of record to postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse
party of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, Desides the costs of the term, may in
the discretion of the judges be imposed as a condition of granting the postpone
ment. [1875, 63.]
SEC. 625 b. [Motions—Demurrers.] —Sec 2. Costs may be allowed on a
motion or demurrer in the discretion of the court or judge, not exceeding ten dol
lars, which shall be absolute against the losing party on such demurrer or motion :
Provided, That this provision shall not apply to verbal motions and demurrer,
ore tenus during the course of the trial.
TITLE XVIIL— Actions and Proceedings in Particular Cases.
CHAPTER I. —ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY.
SEC. 626. [Recovery—Petition—Allegations.]—In an action for the
recovery of real property, it shall be sufficient, if the plaintiff state in his petition
that he has a legal estate therein, and is entitled to the possession thereof, de
scribing the same, as required by section one hundred and thirty-three, and that
the defendant unlawfully keeps him out of the possession. It shall not be neces
sary to state how the plaintiff's estate or ownership is derived.
SEC. 627. [Answer.] —It shall be sufficient .in such action, if the defendant
in his answer deny, generally, the title alleged in the petition, or that he withholds
ossession, as the case may be ; but if he deny the title of the plaintiff, possession
y the defendant shall be taken as admitted. Where he does not defend for the
whole premises, the answer shall describe the particular part for which defense is
made.
Sec. 628. [Tenants in common.]—In an action by a tenant in common
of real property, against a co-tenant, the plaintiff must state, in addition to what
is required in the first section of this chapter, that the defendant either denies
the plaintiff's right, or did some act amounting to such denial.
Sec. 629. [Plaintiff's right terminating during pendency of ac
tion.] —In an action for the recovery of real property, where the plaintiff shows a
right to recover at the time the action was commenced, but it appears that hia
right has terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment
must be according to the fact, and the plaintiff may recover for withholding the
property.
Sec. 680. [Two trials allowed,] —In an action for the recovery of real
property, the party against whom judgment is rendered may, at any time during
the term at which the judgment is rendered, demand another trial by notice on
the journal, and thereupon the judgment shall be vacated, and the action shall
stand for trial at the next term.
Sec. 681. [Same.] —No further trial can be had in such action, except upon
appeal, unless for good cause shown, as in other actions.
Sec. 632. [Occupying claimants.] —The parties in an action for the re
covery of property may avail themselves, if entitled thereto, of the relief of the
statutes in force for the relief of occupying claimants of land.
Sec. 688. [Waste—Damages.] —If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint
tenant or tenant in common of real property, commit waste thereon, he is hable
to pay three times the damages which have resulted from such waste, to the per
son entitled to sue therefor.
'Sec 634. [Same—Judgment of forfeiture and conviction.]—Judg
ment of forfeiture and conviction may be rendered against the defendant, when
ever the amount of damages so recovered is more than two-thirds the value of the
interest Buch defendant has in the property wasted, and when the action is brought
by the person entitled to the reversion.
SEC. 635. [Same—By whom.]—Any person whose duty it is to prevent
waste, and who has not used reasonable care and diligence to prevent it, is deemed
to have committed it.
SEC. 636. [Wilful trespass—Damages.] —For wilful trespass, injuring
any timber, tree, or shrub on the land of another, or in the street or highway in
front of another's cultivated ground, yard, or town lot, or on the public grounds
of any town, or any land held by this state, for any purpose whatever, the tres
passer shall pay treble damages at the Buit of any person entitled to piot c" or
enjoy the property aforesaid.
SEC. 637. [Same—Wood from uncultivated lands.]—Nothing harein
contained authorizes the recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken
from uncultivated wood land for the repair of a publio highway or bridge in its
immediate neighborhood.
SEC. 688. [Remaindermen—Reversioners.] —The owner of an estate
in remainder or reversion, may maintain either of the aforesaid actions for
injuries done to the inheritance, notwithstanding any intervening estate for life or
years.
SEC. 689. [Same—Heirs.] —An heir, whether a minor or of full age, may
maintain these actions for injuries done in the time of his ancestors as well as in
his own time, unless barred by the statute of limitations.
SEC. 640. [Lands sold on execution.]—Where lands or tenements are
sold by virtue of an execution, the purchaser at such sale may maintain his action
against any person, for either of the causes above mentioned, occurring or exist
ing after his purchase.
Sec. 641. [Timber used for repairs.]— This provision is not intended to
prevent the person who occupies the lands, in the meantime, from using them in the
ordinary course of husbandry, or from using timber for the purpose of making
suitable repairs thereon. *
Sec. 642. [Same When deemed waste.]—But if for this purpose he
employ timber vastly superior to that required for the occasion, he will be deemed
to nave committed waste, and will be liable accordingly.
CHAPTER H. —ACTIONS ON OFFICIAL SECURITIES.
Sec. 643. [By whom and how brought.]—When an officer, executor,
or administrator within this state, by misconduct or neglect of duty, forfeits his
bond or renders his sureties liable, any person injured thereby, or who is by law
entitled to the benefit of the security may bring an action thereon, in his own
name, against the officer, executor, or administrator, and his sureties, to recover
the amount to which he may be entitled by reason of the delinquency. The ac
tion may be instituted and proceeded in on a certified copy of the bond, which
copy shall be furnished by the person holding the original thereof.
SEC. 644. [Several delinquencies.] —A judgment in favor of a party for
one delinquency, does not preclude the same or another party from an action on
the same security for another delinquency.
CHAPTER m.—PROCEEDINGS UPON MANDAMUS.
Sec. 645. [Office of writ.] —The writ of mandamus may be issued to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of an
act which the law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an office, trust or sta
tion. But though it may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment, or
proceed to the discharge of any of its functions it cannot control judicial discretion.
SEC. 646. [When not issuable—Party interested.]—This writ may
not be issued in any case where there is a plain and adequate remedy in the or
dinary course of the law. It may issue on the information of the party benefi
cially interested.
Sec. 647. [Commands of writs.] —The writ is either alternative or per
emptory. The alternative writ must state concisely the facts showing the obliga
tion of the defendant to perform the act, and his omission to performit.and command
him, that immediately upon the receipt of the writ, or at some other specified
time, he do the act required to be performed, or show cause before the court
whence the writ issued, at a specified time and place, why he has not done bo ;
and that he then and there return the writ, with his certificate of having done as
he is commanded. The peremptory writ must be in a similar form, except that
the words requiring the defendant to show cause why he has not dene as com
manded, must be omitted.
SEC. 648. [Which writ issued.]—When the right to require the perform
ance of the act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can be given for
not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may be allowed in the first instance.
In all other cases, the alternative writ must first be issued.
Sec. 649. [Motion for writ—Notice.] —The motion for the writ must
be made upon affidavit, and the court may require a notice of the application to
be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause why it should
not be allowed, or may grant the writ without notice.
Sec. 650. [Allowance—Service—Contempt.] —The allowance of the
writ must be endorsed thereon, signed by a judge of the court granting it, and
the writ must be served personally upon the defendant. If the defendant duly
served neglect to return the same, he shall be proceeded against, as for contempt.
Sec. 651. [Answer.] —On the return day of the alternative writ, or such
farther day as the court may allow, the party on whom the writ shall have been
served, may show cause, by answer made, in the same manner as an answer to a
petition in a civil action.
Sec. 652. [Same—Default—New matter.] —If no answer be made, a
peremptory mandamus must be allowed against the defendant. If an answer be
made containing new matter, the same shall not in any respect conclude the
plaintiff, who may, on the trial or other proceeding, avail himself of any valid
objection to its sufficiency, or may countervail'^ by proof, either in direct denial
or by way of avoidance.
SEC. 658. [Pleadings.] —No other pleading or written allegation is allowed,
than the writ and answer. These are the pleadings in the case, and have the
same effect and are to be construed and may be amended in the Bame manner
as pleadings in a civil action ; and the issues thereby joined must be tried, and
the further proceedings thereon had in the same manner as in a civil action.
Sec. 654. [Damages.] —If judgment be given for the plaintiff, he shall re
cover the damages whicn he shall have sustained, to be ascertained by the court
or a jury, or by referees, in a civil action, and costs ; and a peremptory mandamus
shall also be granted to him without delay.
Sec. 655. [Same—Bar to other action.] —A recovery of damages by
virtue of this chapter, against a party, who shall have made a return to a writ of
mandamus, is a bar to any other action against the same party for the making
of such return.
SEC. 656. [Disobedience—Contempt—Fine.]—Whenever a peremp
tory mandamus is directed to any public officer, body, or board, commanding the
performance of any public duty, specially enjoined by law, if it appear to the court
that such officer, or any member of such body or board, has without just excuse,
refused or neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the court may impose a fine
not exceeding five hundred dollars, upon every such officer, or member of such
body or board. Such fine, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the
county where the duty ought to have been performed ; and the payment thereof is
a bar to an action for any penalty incurred by such officer, or member of such
body or board, by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.
TITLE XIX.—Juries.
SEC. 657. [Persons competent.] —All free white males residing in any
of the counties of this state, having the qualifications of electors, and bting over
the age of twenty-one years, and of sound mind and discretion, and not being
judges of the supreme court or district courts, clerks of the supreme or district
courts, sheriffs, coroners, or jailers, or subject to any bodily mfirmity amounting
to a disability, and who have not been convicted of a criminal offense, punish
able by imprisonment in the penitentiary, and are not subject to disability for the
commission of any offense which by special provision of law does or shall dis
qualify them, are and shall be competent persons to serve on all grand and petit
juries, within their counties respectively; Provided, That persons over sixty years
of age, ministers of the gospel, probate judges, county commissioners, licensed
attorneys, practicing physicians, postmasters, and carriers of the United States
mails, shall not be compelled to serve as jurors.
Sec. 657 a. [Same—Municipal corporations—Party to action.!—
Sec. 1. That on the trial of any suit in which a municipal corporation is a party,
the inhabitants and tax-payers of such municipal corporation shall be competent
jurors if otherwise competent and qualified according to law. [1875, 16.]
Sec. 658. [List by county commissioners.]—In each of the counties
in this state, wherein a district court is appointed or directed to be holden, the
county commissioners of the county shall, at least fifteen days before the first day
of the session of the court, meet together, or any two of them may meet, and se
lect sixty persons possessing the qualifications prescribed in section six hundred
and fifty-seven, and as nearly as may be, a proportionate number from each pre
cinct in the county, and shall, within five days thereafter, furnish to the clerk of
the district court of the county, or his deputy, a list of the names of the peraons
selected.
Sec. 659. [Same—Duties of district clerk.]—The clerk or deputy clerk
receiving the names, shall write the name of each person selected on a sejparate
ticket, and place the whole number of tickets into a box, or other suitable and safe
receptacle, and shall preserve the list of names furnished by the commissioners,
in the files of his office.
SEC. 660. [How drawn.]—The clerk of the district court or his deputy and
the sheriff or his deputy or if there be no sheriff or deputy sheriff the coroner of
the county, shall, at least ten days before the first day of the session of the dis
trict court, meet together and draw by lot out of a box,a receptacle wherein shall be
kept the tickets mentioned and referred to in section (659) six hundred and fiftynine
of said title, twenty-four names, and the peraons whose names are drawn
shall be the petit jurors. And when a grand jury is ordered the clerk or deputy
clerk and sheriff or deputy sheriff, or coroner if there be no sheriff or deputy
sheriff shall then draw sixteen (16) additional names and the peraons whose
names are drawn shall be the grand jury. [1885, chap. 97.]
Seo. 661. [Same—Order to sheriff.]—The clerk shall, on the day of the
drawing aforementioned, issue an order to the sheriff, d eputy sheriff or coroner as the
case may be, commanding him to summon the persons whose names are drawn as
petit jurors to appear before the district court at or before the hour of eleven
o'clock on the morning of the first day of the term, stating in the order the
day of the week and month and the place of the sitting of the court, to serve as
petit jurors, and a like order commanding the sheriff, deputy sheriff or coroner to
summon the grand jury when a grand jury has been ordered and drawn. [Id.]
Sec. 662. [How summoned.] —The sheriff, deputy sheriff or coroner hav
ing received the order shall, at least five days before the first day of the session of
the court, make service of said order upon each person whose name was selected
and drawn as a petit juror by reading or delivering a copy of the same to the
person summoned, or by leaving a copy at his residence.except that the copy shall
contain only the name of the person served and not the name of any other petit
juror. And when a grand jury is ordered and summoned, service of said order
shall be made on each person in the same manner as is provided for service on a
petitjuror in this section. [Id.]
SEC. 663. [Appearance.] —Each grand juror and petit juror summoned
shall appear before the court on the day and at the hour specified in the summons
and shall not depart without leave of court.
SEC. 664. [Additional jurors.]—Whenever the proper officers fail to
summon a grand or petit jury, or when all persons summoned as grand or petit
jurors do not appear before the district courts, or whenever at any general or
special term, or at any period of a term for any cause there is no panel of grand
jurors or petit jurors, or the panel is not complete, said court may order the
sheriff, deputy sheriff, or coroner to summon without delay, good and lawful men,
having the qualifications of jurors, and each person summoned, shall forthwith
appear before the court, and if competent, shall serve on the grand jury or petit
jury as the case may be, unless such person may be excused from serving, or
lawfully challenged.
Sec. 665. [Not summoned when.]—No person shall be summoned as a
juror in any district court of this state more than once in two years, and it shall
be sufficient cause of challenge to any juror called to be sworn in any cause that
he has been summoned and attended said court as a juror, at any term of said
court held within two years prior to the time of such challenge ; Provided, No
finding verdict or inquest returned by any jury shall be invalidated or set aside,
because a member of such jury served as a grand or petit juror within the two (2)
years immediately preceding such verdict or inquest. [Amended March 1. Took
effect June 1, 1881.]
Sec. 666. [Officer's return to order.]—The sheriff, deputy sheriff, or
coroner, having received the order or service issued by the clerk, shall make return
thereof with his proceedings, to the clerk, before the session of the court.
SEC. 667. [Failure to appear—Neglect of officers—Penalty.]— If
any person summoned to appear as grand juror or petit juror, fails, refuses or neg
lects to appear, such person shall be considered guilty of contempt of the court,
and may De fined by the court in any sum not less than five dollars nor more than
fifty dollars ; and if any person, when a second order or attachment is issued, neglects
or refuses to appear, such person may be fined as above provided, and impris
oned by the court not longer than ten days in the county jail ; and if the county
commissioners in any county neglect or fail to select and furnish to the clerk names
of persons as hereinbefore provided, such persons so offending may be fined by the
court not less than five dollars nor more than fifty dollars ; and if any clerk of the
district court, or deputy clerk,- or sheriff, deputy sheriff, or coroner, neglects or
fails to perform the duties imposed by this chapter, the person so offending shall
be considered guilty of contempt of court, and may be fined by the court not less
than five dollars nor more than fifty dollars ; and if guilty of gross misconduct in
office and contempt, may be imprisoned by the court not longer than thirty days
in the county jail.
Sec. 668. [Packing jury—Penalty.]—If a sheriff or other officer, cor
ruptly, or through favor or ill will, summon a juror, with the intent that such
juror shall find a verdict for or against either party, or shall summon a grand
juror from like motives, with intent that such grand juror shall or shall not
find an indictment or presentment against any particular individual, he shall be
fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, and forfeit his office, and be forever dis
qualified from holding any office in this state.
TITLE XX.—Contempts. |
Sec. 669. [Power of court to punish—When.]—Every court of record
shall have power to punish by fine and imprisonment, or by either, as for crimi
nal contempt, persons guilty of any of the following acts : First. Disorderly,
contemptuous or insolent behavior towards the court, or any of its officers, in its
presence. Second. Any breach of the peace, noise or other disturbance tending
to interrnpt its proceedings. Third. Wilful disobedience of, or resistance wilfully
offered to any lawful process or order of said court. Fourth. Any wilful attempt
to obstruct the proceedings, or hinder the due administration of justice in any suit,
proceedings or process pending before the courts. Fifth. The contumacious and
unlawful refusal of any person to be sworn or affirmed as a witness, and when
sworn or affirmed, the refusal to answer any legal and proper interrogatory. [R.
S. 512. G. S. 645.]
Sec. 670. [How punished.] —Contempts committed in the presence of the
court may be punished summarily ; in other cases, the party, upon being brought
before the court, shall be notified of the accusation against him, and have a rea
sonable time to make his defense.
Sec. 671. [Same—Indictment.] —Persons punished for contempt under the
preceding provisions, shall nevertheless be liable to indictment, if such contempt
shall amount to an indictable offense ; but the court before which the conviction
shall be had, may, in determining the punishment, take into consideration the
punishment before inflicted m mitigation of the sentence.
Secs. 672, 678, 674. [Omitted. Same provisions sees. 1096, 1097,
il098,]
TITLE XXI.*—Appeals from the District to the Supreme Court.
Sec. 675. [Appeals in equity.] —Sec. 1. That in actions in equity either
party may appeal from the judgment or decree rendered or final order made by
the district court, to the supreme court of the state ; the party appealing shall
within six months after the date of the rendition of the judgment or decree, or
the making of the final order, procure from the clerk of the district court and file
in the office of the clerk of the supreme court, a certified transcript of the pro
ceedings had in the cause in the district court, containing the pleadings, the judg
ment or decree rendered or final order made therein, and all the depositions, tes
timony and proofs offered in evidence on the hearing of the cause, and have the
said cause properly docketed in the supreme court ; and on failure thereof, the
judgment or decree rendered or the final order made in the district court shall
stand and be proceeded in as if no appeal had been taken.
Sec. 676. [Testimony reduced to writing.] —Sec. 2. In actions herein
after heard ana determined, when the proofs and testimony are taken orally before
the court on the hearing of the cause, the same shall be reduced to writing, in
form similar to bills of exception, and be allowed by the judge hearing the cause,
as in cases at law.
Sec. 677. [Undertaking.] —Sec. 8. No appeal in any case in equity, now
pending and undetermined, or which shall hereafter be brought shall operate as a
rupersedeas, unless the appellant, or appellants, shall within twenty days next
after the rendition of such judgment or decree, or the making of such final order,
execute to the adverse party a bond with one or more sureties as follows : First.
When the judgment, decree, or final order appealed from directs the payment of
money, the bond shall be in double the amount of the judgment, decree, or final
order, conditioned that the appellant, or appellants, will prosecute such appeal
without delay, and pay all condemnation money and costs which may be found
against him, or them, on the final determination of the cause in the supreme
court. Second. When the judgment, decree, or final order directs the execution
of a conveyance or other instrument, the bond shall be in such sum as shall . be
prescribed by the district court, or judge thereof in vacation, conditioned that
the appellant, or appellants, will prosecute such appeal without delay, and will
abide and perform the judgment or decree rendered or final order which shall be
made by the supreme court in the cause. Third. When the judgment, deoree, or
order directs the sale or delivery of possession of real estate, the bond shall
be in such sum as the court, or judge thereof in vacation, shall prescribe, condi
tioned that the appellant, or appellants, will prosecute such appeal without delay,
and will not during the pendency of such appeal commit, or suffer to be commit
ted, any waste upon such real estate.
Sec. 678. [Same—Approval—Supersedeas.]— Sec. 4. Before any bond
executed as aforesaid shall operate as a supersedeas, the execution of the same,
and the sufficiency of the sureties therein, must be approved by the clerk of the
court in which the judgment or decree was rendered or the final order was made.
TITLE XXII.—Boats. [Repealed. Gen. Stat. 718.]
TITLE XXIII.—Informations.
Seo. 704. [Filed against whom.]— An information may be filed against
any person unlawfully holding or exercising any public office or franchise within
this state, or any office in any corporation created by the laws of this state, or
when any public officer has done or suffered any act which works a forfeiture of
his office, or when any persons act as a corporation within this state without
being authorized by law, or if, being incorporated, they do or omit acts which
amount to a surrender or forfeiture of their rights and privileges as a corporation,
or when they exercise powers not conferred by law.
Seo. 706. [By whom.] —Such information may be filed by the prosecuting
attorney of the proper county whenever he deems it his duty so to do.
Sec. 706. [Same.] —He must file such information when directed to do so by
the governor, the legislative assembly, or the district court.
Sec. 707. [Petition— Contents.]— Such information shall consist of a
plain statement of the facts which constitute the grounds of the proceeding,
addressed to the court which shall stand for an original petition.
Sec. 708. [Same—Filing—Summons.] —Such statement shall be filed in
the clerk's office, and summons issued and served in the same manner as herein
before provided for the commencement of actions in the district court.
Sec. 709. [Answer.] —The defendant shall appear and answer such infor
mation in the usual way, and issue being joined it shall be tried in the ordinary
manner.
Sec. 710. [Claimant—Rights of parties determined.] —When the
defendant is holding an office to which another is claiming the right, the informa
tion should set forth the name of such claimant, and the trial must, if practica
ble, determine the rights of contesting parties.
Sec. 711. [Judgment of claimant.] —If judgment be rendered in favor •
of such claimant, he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the office, after he
has qualified as required by law.
Sec. 712. [Same—Delivery of books and papers.] —The court, after
such judgment, shall order the defendant to deliver over all books and papers in
his custody or under his control belonging to said office.
SEC. 718. [Same—Damages.] —When the judgment has been rendered in
favor of the claimant, he may at any time within one year thereafter bring suit
against the defendant and recover the damages he has sustained by reason of
the act of the defendant.
Seo. 714. [Several claimants.] —When several persons claim to be enti
tled to the same office or franchise, an information may be filed against all or
any portion thereof, in order to try their respective rights thereto.
Sec. 715. [Ouster.] —If the defendant be found guilty of unlawfully holding
or exercising any office, franchise, or privilege, or if a corporation be found to
have violated the law by which it holds its existence, or in any other manner to
have done acts which amount to a surrender or forfeiture of its privileges, judgment
shall be rendered that such defendant be ousted, and altogether excluded from
such office, franchise, or privilege, and also that he pay the costs of the proceeding.
Sec. 716. [Judgment in other cases.] —If the defendant be found to
have exercised merely certain individual powers and privileges to which he was
not entitled, the judgment shall be the same as above directed, but only In rela
tion to those particulars in which he is thus exceeding the lawful exercise of hi*
rights and privileges.
Sec. 717. [Title of cause—Costs.] —When an information is upon the re
lation of a private individual, it shall be so stated in the petition and proceedings,
and such individual shall be responsible for costs in case they are not adjudged
against the defendant. In other cases the title of the cause shall be the same as
in a criminal prosecution, and the payment of costs shall be regulated by the
same rule.
Sec. 718. [Same.] —In case judgment is rendered against a pretended, but
not real, corporation, the costs may De collected from any person who has been
acting as an officer or proprietor of such pretended corporation.
Sec. 719. [Dissolved corporation —Trustees.] — If a corporation is
ousted and dissolved by the proceedings herein authorized, the court shall ap
point three disinterested persons as trustees of the creditors and stockholders.
Sec. 720. [Same—Bond.]—Such trustees shall enter into Dond, in such a
penalty, and with such security as the court may approve, conditioned for the
faithful discharge of their trust.
Sec. 721. [Same—Suit on bond.] —Suit may be brought on such bond by
any person injured by the negligence or wrongful act of the trustees in the dis
charge of their duties.
Sec. 722. [Trustees—Duties.] —The trustees shall proceed immediately to
collect the debts and pay the liabilities of the corporation, and to divide the sur
plus among those thereto entitled.
Sec. 728. [Books, etc., of corporation.] —The court shall, upon an ap
plication for that purpose, order any officer of such corporation, or any other per
son having possession of any of the effects, books or papers of the corporation in
any wise necessary for the settlement of its affairs, to deliver up the same to the
trustees.
Sec. 724. [Trustees—Inventory.] —As soon as practicable, after their ap
pointment, the trustees shall make and file in the office of the clerk of the court,
an inventory of all the effects, rights and credits which come to their possession
or knowledge, the truth of which inventory shall be sworn to.
Seo. 725. [Same—Act as executors.] —They shall sue for and recover the
debts and property of the corporation, and shall be responsible to the creditors
and stockholders, respectively, to the extent of the effects which come to their
hands, in the same manner as though they were the executors of a deceased person.
Sec. 726. [Officers of corporations—Liability.]—When judgment of
ouster is rendered against a corporation on account or the misconduct of the
directors or officers thereof, Buch officers shall be jointly and severally liable to an
action by any one injured thereby.
Sec. 727. [Contempt of court—Penalty.]—Any person who, without
good reason, refuses to obey any order of the court as herein provided, shall be
deemed guilty of a contempt of court, and shall be fined in any sum not exceed
ing five thousand dollars and imprisoned in the county jail until he comply with
said order, and shall be further liable for the damages resulting to any person on
account of his refusal to obey such order.
_ Sec 728. [Letters patent—Vacated.] —A proceeding of this kind may
be instituted, in tbe manner above contemplated, for the purpose of annulling or
vacating any letters patent granted by the proper authorities of this state, where
there is reason to believe that the same were obtained by fraud, or through mis
take or ignorance of a material fact, or when the patentee, or those claiming under
him, have done or omitted an act in violation of the terms and conditions on
which the letters were granted, or have by any other means forfeited the interest
acquired under the same.
Sec. 796. [How consummated.]—"Whenever it maybe desirable that any
person or persons shall adopt the child of another, the same may be consummated
in the manner hereinafter provided.
Sec. 797. [Same—Proceedings.] —The parents, guardians or other person
or persons having lawful control or custody of any minor child, may make a
statement in writing before the county judge of the county where the person or
persons desiring to adopt such child reside, that he she or they voluntarily relin
quish all right to the custody of and power and control over such child (naming
him or her), and all claim and interest in and to the services and wages of such child,
to the end that such child shall be fully adopted by the party or parties (naming
them) desiring to adopt such child, which statement shall be signed and sworn to by
the party making the same, before said county judge, in the presence of at least two
witnesses.and the person or persons desiring to adopt such child.shall also make a
statement in writing, to the effect that he, she, or they freely and voluntarily adopt
such child (namingTurn or her) as their own,with such limitations and conditions as
shall be agreed upon by the parties, which said statement shall also be signed and
sworn to by the parties making the same before said county judge, in the pres
ence of at feast two witnesses ; but when such child is an inmate of "The Home
for the Friendless," or of any orphans' home organized under the laws 'of this state,
and has been voluntarily surrendered in writing by its parents or guardians, for
the purpose of adoption, to the directors or trustees of the "Society of the Home
Jor the Friendless, or of such orphans' home, or has no father or mother living,
or has been previously abandoned by its parents or guardians, or left in any such
charitable institution for four months without being claimed, then the written con
sent of the president of the board of directors or trustees of said society, or of
such orphans' home, shall be given to such adoption signed in the presence of any
county judge of this state and certified by him to the county judge of the
county where the person or persons desiring to adopt such child reside,
which shall be received in the place of the relinquishment as herein required ;
Provided, In all cases where such child shall be of the age of fourteen years and
upward, the written consent of such child shall be necessary to the validity of such
proceeding; And provided, further, Whenever it shall be desirable the party or par
ties adopting such child may.by stipulations to that effect in such statement, adopt
such child and bestow upon him or her equal rights, privileges, and immunities
of children born in lawful wedlock, and such statement or consent shall be filed
with and recorded by said county judge in a book kept in his office for that pur
pose. [1885, chap. 98.]
SEC. 798. [ Hearing.}—And such county judge shall appoint a time and
place for the hearing of said matter. [Id.]
Sec. 799. [Decree.]—At the time and place of the hearing of such matter,
if said hearing shall not be adjourned, the said probate judge shall render a de
cree therein, in accordance with the conditions and stipulations of said state
ment ; Provided, In case it shall appear to the satisfaction of said probate judge,
that such proceedings are not for the best interest of the child or children, he
may refuse to enter such decree, and the matter shall thereupon be dismissed.
Sec. 800. [Same—Conclusive.]—All decrees entered in such case in con
formity with the provisions and requirements of this chapter, shall be conclusive
upon all the persons interested in such proceedings or matter, and the child or
children thus adopted shall take the surname of the person or. persons adopting
the same, and all relations of parent and child, agreeable to such stipulations
and the decree Of the probate court, shall attach, and such' child or children, if so
stated in such decree, shall be subject to the exclusive control and custody of
such parent or parents, and shall possess and enjoy all the rights, privileges, in
heritance, heirships, and immunities of children born in lawful wedlock.
Sec. 801. [Fees.] —The probate judge shall be entitled to charge the same
fees for such services as now are or hereafter may be provided by law for like
uervices in other cases.
TITLE XXVI.—Partition.
Sec. 802. [Petition.]—When the object of the action is to effect the parti-
tion of real property among several joint owners, ,the petition must describe the
property, and the several interests and estates of the several joint owners thereof,
if known. All tenants in common, or joint tenants of any estate in land may be
compelled to make or suffer partition of such estate or estates in the manner here
inafter prescribed. [Amended 1871, 112.]
Sec. 808. [Same—Unknown owners.]—If the number of shares or in
terests is known, but the owners thereof are unknown, or if there are or are sup
posed to be, any interests which are unknown, contingent or doubtful, these facta
must be set forth in the petition with reasonable certainty.
SEC. 804. [Lien holders—Parties.] —Creditors having a specific or gen
eral hen upon all or any portion of the property may or may not be made parties,
at the option of the plaintiff.
SEC. 805. [Liens upon undivided interest.!—If the lien is upon one
or more undivided interests of any of the parties, it shall, after partition or sale,
remain a charge upon those particular interests or the proceeds thereof. But the
due proportion of costs is a charge upon those interests paramount to all other
liens.
SEC. 806. [Answer.] —The answers of the defendants must state, among
other things, the amount and nature of their respective interests. They may
deny the interest of any of the plaintiffs, and by supplemental pleading, if nec
essary, may deny the interests of any of the other defendants.
SEC. 807. [Reply.] —Where there are two or more plaintiffs they may re
ply jointly, or either of them may reply to any or all the answers of the de
fendants.
SEC. 808. [Issues.] —Issues may thereupon be joined and tried between any
of the contesting parties, the question of costs on such issues being regulated be
tween the contestants agreeably to the principles applicable to other cases.
SEC. 809. [Proof of title.] —Each of the parties appearing, whether as
plaintiff or defendant, must exhibit his documentary proof or title, if he ha6 any,
and must file the same, or copies thereof, with the clerk.
. Sec 810. [Pleadings taken as true.] —If the statements in the petition
and answers are not contradicted in the manner aforesaid, or by the documen
tary proof exhibited as above required, they shall be taken as true.
- Sec 811. [Judgment.! —After all the shares and interests of the parties
have been settled in any of the methods aforesaid, judgment shall be rendered
confirming those shares and interests, and directing partition to be made ac
cordingly.
SEC. 812. [Referee to make partition.] —Upon entering such judgment
the court shall appoint referees to make partition into the requisite number of
shares.
SEC. 818. [Special allotments.]—For good and sufficient reasons ap
pearing to the court, the referees may be directed to allot particular portions of
the land to particular individuals. In other cases the shares must be made as
nearly as possible of equal value.
Sec. 814. [Referees report.]—If it appears to the referees that partition
cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners, they shall so report to the
court.
Sec. 815. [Order of sale.] —If satisfied with such report the court shall
cause an order to be entered, directing the referees to sell the premises so situated
and shall also fix the terms of sale.
Sec. 816. [Referee—Security.]—Before proceeding to sell, the referees
shall each give security, to be approved by the court or judge thereof, conditioned
for the faithful discharge of his duties. At any time thereafter the court may re
quire further and better security.
Sec. 817. [Sale—How conducted—Notice.]—The same notice of sale
shall be given as when lands are sold on execution by the sheriff, and the sale
shall be conducted in like manner.
Sec. 818. [Referees report of sale.]—After completing said sale, the
referees must report their proceedings to the court, with a description of the dif
ferent parcels of land sold to each purchaser, and the price bid therefor, which
report shall be filed with the clerk.
Sec. 819. [Report of incumbrances by the clerk.] —After making
the order of sale as aforesaid, the court shall direct the clerk to report whether
there be any general incumbrance by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, upon any
portion of the property.
Sec. 820. [Same—By referee.]—If deemed advisable, the court may ap
point a referee to inquire into the nature and amount of incumbrances, and re
port accordingly. From that report an appeal lies to the court.
Sec. 821. [Same—Duties.] —The referee shall give the parties interested atleast
five days notice of the time and place when he will receive proof of the
amount of such incumbrances.
SEC. 822. [Same—Proof.] —In taking such proof he may receive, with oth
er evidence, the affidavit of the parties interested.
Sec. 828. [Incumbrances—Payment.] —If any incumbrance be ascer
tained to exist, the proceeds of the sale of that portion, after the payment of costs,
or so much thereof as is necessary, shall if the owner consent, be paid over to the
incumbrancer.
Sec. 824. [Same—Proceeds of sale.] —If the owner object to the pay
ment of such incumbrance, the money shall be retained or invested by order of
the court to await final action in relation to its disposition, and notice thereof
shall be forthwith given to the incumbrancer, unless he has already been made a
party.
Sec. 825. [Issue between owner and incumbrancer.]— The court
may direct an issue to be made up between the incumbrancer and the owner, which
shall be decisive of their respective rights.
Sec. 826. [Estates for life or years.]—If an estate for life or years be
found to exist as an incumbrance upon any part of said property, and if the par
ties cannot agree upon the sum in gross which they will consider an equivalent
for such estate, the court shall direct the avails of the incumbered property to be
invested and the proceeds to be paid to the incumbrancer during the existence of
the incumbrance.
Sec. 827. [Proceedings not delayed.]—The proceedings in relation to
the incumbrances shall not delay the distribution of the proceeds of other shares
in respect to which no difficulties exist.
Sec. 828. [Security from parties.]—The court in its discretion may re
quire all or any of the parties before they receive the moneys arising from any
sale authorized in this title, to give satisfactory security, to refund such moneys
with interest, in case it afterward appears that such parties were not entitled
thereto.
8ec. 829. [Sale—Confirmed—Conveyance.] —If the sales aforesaid be
approved and confirmed by the court, an order Bhall be entered directing the re
ferees, or any two of them, to execute conveyances pursuant tq such sales. But no
conveyance can be made until all the money is paid, without receiving from the
purchaser a mortgage of the land so sold, or other equivalent security.
Sec. 830. [Conveyance—Effect.] —Such conveyances so executed, being
recorded in the county where the premises are situate, shall be valid against afl
subsequent purchasers, and also against all persons interested at the time who
were made parties to the proceedings in the mode pointed out by law.
Sec. 831. [Proceeds of shares—:Investment.] — If the owner of any
flhare thus sold has a husband or wife living, and if such husband and wife do not
agree as to the disposition that shall be made of the proceeds of such sale, tho
■court must direct it to be invested in real estate under the supervision of such per
son as it may appoint, taking the title in the name of the owner, of the share
gold as aforesaid.
Sec. 882. [Sale disapproved —Money returned.] —If the sales are
disapproved, the money paid and the securities given must be returned to the per
sons respectively entitled thereto.
Sec. 833. [Partition—How made—Surveyor.]—When a partition is
deemed proper the referees must make out the shares by visible monuments, and
may employ a competent surveyor and the necessary assistants to aid them.
SEC. 884. [Referees report—Plat.]—The report of the referees must be
in writing, signed by at least two of them. It must describe the respective share*
with reasonable particularity, and be accompanied by a plat of the premises.
Sbc. 836. [Shares drawn by lot.]—Unless the shares are allotted to
their respective owners by the referees as hereinbefore contemplated, the clqrk
shall number the shares and then draw the names of the future owners by lot.
Sec. 836. [Partition in part.] —When partition can be conveniently made
of part of the premises, but not of all, one portion may be partitioned and the
other sold as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 837. [Report set aside.] —On good cause shown, the report may be
set aside and the matter again referred to the same or other referees.
Sec. 838. [Judgment.] —Upon the report of the referees being confirmed,
judgment thereon shall be rendered that the partition be firm and effectual for
ever.
Sec. 889. [Defendants, how served.] —The defendants may be Berved in
"the same manner as in ordinary civil action by summons, or by publication as
provided in this code, and when all the parties in interest nave been duly
served, any of the proceedings herein prescribed shall be binding and conclusive
upon them all.. If only a portion of such parties be served, they only shall bo
•bound by such proceedings. [Amended 1871, 112.]
Sec. 840. [Judgment—Effect.]—The judgment of partition shall be pre
sumptive evidence of title in all cases, and as between the parties themselves it
is conclusive evidence thereof, subject, however, to be defeated by proof of a title
paramount to, or independent of, that under which the parties held as johjt ten
ants or tenants in common.
SEC. 841. [Costs.] —All the costs of the proceedings in partition shall be
paid in the first instance by the plaintiffs, but eventually ty all the parties in pro
portion to their interests, except those costs which are created by contests above
provided for.
SEC. 842. [Incumbrancers—Appearance.] —Any person claiming to
hold an incumbrance upon any portion of the property involved in the suit, may, in
default of the owner, appear and act as his representative in any of the proceed
ings under this title.
SEC. 843. [Contingent interests.] —Persons having contingent interest*
in Buch property may be made parties to the proceedings, and the proceeds of the
property so situated (or the property itself, in case of partition), Bhall be subject to
the order of the court until the right becomes fully vested. ,
Sec. 844. [Share of absent owner.]—The ascertained share of any absent
owner shall be retained, or the proceeds invested for his benefit.
TITLE XXVII. —Foreclosure of Mortgages by Action.
Sec. 845. [Petition—Where filed.]—All petitions for the foreclosure or
satisfaction of mortgages shall be filed in the district court in chancery where the
mortgaged premises are situated.
SEC. 846. [Sale—Decreed by conrt.]—Whenever a petition shall be filed
for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, the court shall have power to
decree a sale of the mortgaged premises, or such part thereof as may be sufficient
to discharge the amount due on the mortgage, and the cost of suit.
Sec. 847. [Decree for deficiency.] —When a petition shall be filed for the
satisfaction of a mortgage, the court shall not only have the power to decree
aud compel the delivery of the possession of the premises to the purchaser thereof,
but on the coming in of the report of sale, the court shall have power to decree
and direct the payment by the mortgagor of any balance of the mortgage debt
that may remain unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged premises, in the casei
in which such balance is recoverable at law ; and for that purpose may issue the
necessary execution, as in other cases, against other property of the mortgagor.
Sec. 848. [Bar to action for debt.] —After such petition shall be filed,
while the same is pending, and after a decree rendered thereon, no proceedings
whatever shall be had at law for the recovery of the debt secured by the mortgage,
or any part thereof, unless authorized by the court.
SEC. 849. [Other security—Additional parties.]—If the mortgage
debt be secured by the obligation or other evidence of debt of any other person
besides the mortgagor, the complainant may make such person a party to the
petition, and the court may decree payment of the balance of such debt remain
ing unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged premises, as well against such other
person as ihe mortgagor, and may enforce such decree as in other cases.
SEC. 850. [Petition—Allegation as to debt.]—Upon filing a petition for
the foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, the complainant shall state therein
whether any proceedings have been had at law for the recovery of the debt secured
thereby, or any part thereof, and whether such debt, or any part thereof, has been
collected and paid.
SEC. 851. [Judgment at law—Bar to foreclosure.]—If it appear
that any judgment has been obtained in a suit at law for the money demanded by
such petition, or any part thereof, no proceedings shall be had in such case,
unless, to an execution against the property of the defendant in such judgment,
the sheriff or other proper officer shall have returned that the execution is unsat
isfied in whole or in part, and that the defendant has no property whereof to
satisfy such execution except the mortgaged premises.
Sec. 852. [Sales—By whom made.]—All sales of mortgaged premise;
under a decree in chancery shall he made by a sheriff, or some other person
authorized by the court in the county where the premises or some part of them
are situated, and in all cases where the sheriff shall make such sale he shall act
in his official capacity and he shall be liable on his official bond for all his acts
therein, and shall receive the same compensation as is provided by law for like
services upon sales under speculation [execution]. [Amended 1875, 42. Took
effect Feb. 25, 1875.]
Sec. 858. [Deed to purchaser—Effect.] —Deeds shall thereupon be
executed hy such sheriff, which shall vest in the purchaser the same estate that
would have vested in the mortgagee if the equity of redemption had been foreclosed,
and no other or greater ; and such deeds shall be as valid as if executed by the
mortgagor and mortgagee, and shall be an entire bar against each of them, and all
£arties to the suit in which the decree for such sale was made, and against their
eirs respectively, and all persons claiming under such heirs.
Sec. 854. [Avails of sate—Application.] —The proceeds of every sale
made under a decree in chancery, shall be applied to the discharge of the debt
adjudged by such court to be due, and of the costs awarded, and if there be any
surplus, it shall be brought into court for the use of the defendant, or of the
person entitled thereto, subject to the order of the court.
Sec. 855. [Surplus— Disposition.] —If such surplus, or any part thereof,
shall remain in said court for the term of three months without being applied for,
the court may direct the same to be put out at interest under the direction of the
court, for the benefit of the defendant, his representatives, or assigns, to be paid
to them by the order of such court.
Sec. 856. [Petition dismissed on payment.]—Whenever a petition
shall be filed for the satisfaction or foreclosure of any mortgage, upon which
there shall be due any interest on any portion or installment of the principal, and
there shall be other portions or installments to become due subsequently, the
petition shall be dismissed upon the defendant bringing into court, at any time
before the decree of sale, the principal and interest due, with costs.
Sec. 857. [Decree—Subsequent default.] —If, after a decree for sale,
entered against a defendant in such case, he shall bring into court the principal
and interest due, with costs, the proceedings in the snit shall be stayed, but the
court shall enter a decree of foreclosure and sale, to be enforced by a further order
of the court, upon a subsequent default in the payment of any portion or install
ment of the principal, or any interest thereafter to become due.
Sec. 858. [Reference—Situation of premises.] —If the defendant
shall not bring into court the amount due, with costs, or if for any other cause a
decree shall pass for the complainant, the court may direct a reference to a sher
iff to ascertain and report the situation of the mortgaged premises, or may deter
mine the same on oral or other testimony, and if it shall appear that the same can
be sold in parcels, without injury to the parties, the decree shall direct so much
of the mortgaged premises to be sold as will be sufficient to pay the amount then
due on such mortgage, with costs, and such decree shall remain a security for
any subsequent default.
Sec. 859. [Further order of court.] —If, in the case mentioned in the
preceding section, there shall be any default subsequent to such decree in the pay
ment of any portion or installment of the principal, or any interest due upon sueh
mortgage, the court may, upon the petition of the complainant, by a further or
der, founded upon j3uch first decree, direct a sale of so much of the mortgaged
premises to be made, under such decree, as will be sufficient to satisfy the amount
so due, with the costs of such petition and the subsequent proceedings thereon,
and the same proceedings may be had as often as a default shall happen.
SEC. 860. [Sale of entire property.]— If, in any of the foregoing cases,
it shall appear to the court that the mortgaged premises are so situated that a
sale of the whole will be most beneficial to the parties, the decree shall, in the first
instance, be entered for the sale of the whole premises accordingly.
Sec. 861. [Same—Proceeds—Application.]—In such case the proceeds
of such sale shall be applied as well to the interest, portion, or installment of the
principal <lue as towards the whole or residue of the sum secured by such mort-
fage, and not due and payable at the time of such sale, and if such residue do not
ear interest, then the court may direct the same to be paid with a rebate of the
legal interest, for the time during which such residue shall not be due and paya
ble, or the court may direct the balance of the proceeds of such sale, after paymg
the sum due, with costs, to be put out at interest, for the benefit of the complain
ant, to be paid to him as the installments or portions of the principal or interest
may become due, and the surplus for the benefit of the defendant, his represen
tatives, or assigns, to be paid to them on the order of the court.
TITLE XXVIII.—Arbitration.
Sec. 862. [Controversies submitted.]—All controversies which might
be the subject of civir actions, may be submitted to the decision of one or more ar
bitrators as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 868. [Written agreement to submit.]—The parties themselves,
or those persons who might lawfully have controlled a civil action in their behalf
for the same subject matter, must sign a written agreement specifying particular
ly what demands are to be submitted, the names of the arbitrators, and the court
by which the judgment on their award is to be rendered.
Sec. 864. [Acknowledgment before justice.]—They shall then ap
pear before some justice of the peaoe of the county and acknowledge the instru
ment by them signed to be their free act and deed.
Sec. 865. [Demands submitted.] —The submission may be of some par
ticular matters or demands, or of all demands which the one party has against
the other, or of all mutual demands on both sides.
Sec. 866. [Submission by order of court.]— A submission to arbitra
tors of the subject matter of a suit may also be made by an order of court,
upon an agreement of parties, after suit is commenced.
Sec. 867. [Rules applicable.] —All the rules prescribed by law in cases of
referees are applicable to arbitrators, except as herein otherwise expressed, or ex
cept as otherwise agreed upon by the parties.
Sec. 868. [Revocation of submission.]—Neither party shall have the
power to revoke the submission without the consent of the other.
Sec. 869. [Default in appearance.]—If either party neglect to appear
before the arbitrators, after due notice, they may nevertheless proceed to hear and
determine the cause upon the evidence which is produced before them.
Sec. 870. [Award—When made.]—If the timewithin which the award is
to be made is fixed in the submission, no award made after that time shall have
any legal effect, unless made upon a recommitment of the matter by the court to
which it is reported.
Sec. 871. [Same—Filing.]—If the time of filing the award is not fixed in
the submission, it must be filed within one year from the time such submission is
signed and acknowledged, unless by mutual consent the time is prolonged.
Sec. 872. [Same—In writing.] —The award must be in writing, and shall
be delivered by one of the arbitrators to the court designated in the agreement, or
it may be enclosed and sealed by them and transmitted to the court, and not
opened until the court so orders. "
Sec. 878. [Same—Docketing— Notice.]— The cause shall be entered
on the docket of the court at the term to which the award is returned, and shall
be called up and acted upon in its order. Bat the court may require actual no
tice to be given to either party, when it appears necessary and proper, before
proceeding to act on the award.
Sec. 874. [Same—Rejection by court.]—The award may be rejected by
the court for any legal and sufficient reasons, or it may be recommitted for a re
hearing to the same arbitrators, or any others agreed upon by the parties.
Sec. 875. [Same—Effect—Judgment.]—When the award has been con
firmed, it shall be filed and entered on the record, and shall have the same force
and effect as the verdict of a jury. Judgment may be entered and execution issued
accordingly.
Sec. 876. [Appeal.] —When an appeal is taken from such judgment, copies
of the submission and award, together with all affidavits, shall be returned to the
supreme court.
Sec. 877. [Costs.]—If there is no provision in the submission respecting
costs, arbitrators may award them at their discretion.
Sec. 878. [Fees.] —The compensation of the arbitrators shall be two dollars
per day, for the time actually and necessarily spent, unless the court fix a lesB
amount ; and the fees of the justice of the peace shall be twenty-five cents for
making out the agreement of submission (in case he does so), and the like amount
for taking and certifying the acknowledgment thereto.
Sec. 879. [Construction of act.] —Nothing herein contained shall be con
strued to affect in any manner the control of the district court over the parties,
the arbitrators or their award, nor to impair or affect any action upon an award,
or upon any bond or other engagement to abide an award.
TITLE XXIX.—General Provisions.
Sec. 880. [Process.]—The style of aU process shall be, "The State of Ne
braska, county." It shall be under the seal of the court from whence
the same shall issue, shall be signed by the clerk, and dated the day it issued.
[Const, sec. 24, Art. VI.]
SEC. 881. [When sheriff party.]—An order for a provisional remedy at
afly other process, in an action wherein the sheriff is a party, or is interested,
shall be directed to the coroner. If both these officers are interested, the process
shall be directed to and executed by a person appointed by the court or judge.
SEC. 882. [Service by authorized person.]—The court or judge, for
good cause, may appoint a person to serve a particular process or order, who
shall have the same power to execute it which the sheriff has. The person may
be appointed on the motion of the party obtaining the process or order, and the
return must be verified by affidavit. He shall be entitled to the fees allowed to
the sheriff for similar services.
DUTIES OF CLERKS.
Sec. 882. [Issuing process—Precipe.]—All writs and orders for pro
visional remedies and process of every kind, shall be issued by the clerks of the
several courts. Before they shall be issued, a precipe shall be filed with the clerk,
demanding the same ; which precipe shall be for the direction of the clerk, and
not material to the papers in the case after the issuing of such writ or process.
SEC. 884. [Filing papers.l —It is the duty of the clerk of each of the
courts, to file together and carefully preserve in his office, all papers delivered to
him for that purpose, in every action or special proceeding.
SEC. 885. [Same—Endorsement of date.] —He shall endorse upon
every paper filed with him, the day of filing it ; and upon every order for a pro
visional remedy, and upon every undertaking given under the same, the day of its
return to his office.
SEC. 886. [Docket entry of persons summoned.]—He shall, upon
the return of every summons served, enter upon the docket the name of the defend
ant or defendants summoned, and the day of the service upon each one. The entry
shall be evidence of the service of the summons, in case of the loss thereof.
Sec. 887. [Records and books.] —He shall keep the records and books
and papers appertaining to the court, and record its proceedings.
Sec. 888. [Article 8- title 9 applicable.]— The provisions of article
eight, title nine, of this code, prescribing the duties of clerks of the district court,
shall, as far as they are applicable, apply to the clerks of other courts of record.
Sec. 889. [General powers and duties.] —The clerk of each of the
courts shall exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed
upon him by other provisions of this code, by other statutes, and by the common
law. In the performance of his duty he shall be under the direction of his court.
DUTIES OP SHEBIFFS.
Sec. 890. [Endorsement of receipt on process.] —The sheriff shall
endorse upon every summons, order of arrest, or for the delivery of property, or
of attachment or injunction, the day and the hour it was received by him.
Sec. 891. [Execution of process—Penalty.] —He shall execute every
summons, order, or other process, and. return the same as required by law ; and
if he fail to do so, unless ne make it appear to the satisfaction of the court that
he was prevented by inevitable accident from so doing, he shall be amerced by the
court in a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, and shall be liable to the ac
tion of any person aggrieved by such failure.
Sec. 892. [General powers and duties.]—The sheriff shall exercise the
powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed upon him by other provis
ions of this code, by other statutes, and by the common law.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
Sec. 893. [Acts performed by deputy.l —Any duty enjoined by this
•ode upon a ministerial officer, and any act permitted to be done by him, may be
performed by his lawful deputy.
Sec. 894. [Oaths—Affirmations.]—Whenever an oath is required by this
•ode, the affirmation of a person conscientiously scrupulous of taking an oath,
shall have the same effect.
Sec. 895. [Time—Computation—Sunday.] —The time within which an
act is to be done as herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day
and including the last ; if the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
Sec. 896. [Jury trial—Party in default.]—Section four hundred and
thirty-two shall not be construed to impair the right of a party to a jury, if he ap
pear at the trial by himself or attorney, and demand the same.
Sec. 897. [Sureties—Proof of qualification.] —The ministerial officer,
whose duty it is to take security in an undertaking provided for by this code, shall
have the right to require the person offered as surety to make an affidavit of his
qualifications, which affidavit may be made before such officer. The taking of
such an affidavit shall not exempt the officer from any liability to which he might
otherwise be subject for taking insufficient security.
Sec. 898. [Same—Qualifications.] —The surety in every undertaking pro
vided for by this code, must be a resident of this state, and worth double the sum to be
secured, beyond the amount of his debts, and have property liable to execution in
this state, equal to the sum to be secured. Where there are two or more sureties in
the same undertaking, they must in the aggregate have the qualifications pre
scribed in this section.
Sec. 899. [Court rules—Revision by supreme court.]—The judges of
the supreme court shall, during the month of the first January after this code shall
take effect, and every two years thereafter, meet at the capitol of the state, and revise
their general rules, and make such amendments thereto as may be necessary to
carry into effect the provisions of this code ; and they shall make such further
rules consistent therewith, as they may deem proper. The rules so made shall
apply to the supreme court and the district courtB.
Sec. 900. [Application of code to pending suits.] —The provisions
of this code do not apply to proceedings in actions or suits pending when it takes
effect. They shall be conducted to final judgment or decree, in all respects as if
it had not been adopted ; but the provisions of this code shall apply after a judg
ment, order, or decree heretofore or hereafter rendered, to the proceedings to en
force, vacate, modify, or reverse it.
Sec. 901. [Bights secured by existing laws.]—Eights of civil action
given or secured by existing laws, shall be prosecuted in the manner provided by
this code, except as provided in the following section. If a case ever arise in
which an action for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or pre
vention of a wrong, cannot be had under this code, the practice heretofore in use
may be adopted so far as may be necessary to prevent a failure of justice.
Sec. 902. [Proceedings not affected by code.] —Until the legislature
shall otherwise provide, this code shall not affect proceedings on habeas corpus, quo
warranto, or to assess damages for private property taken for public uses ; nor pro
ceedings under the statutes for the settlement of estates of deceased persons ; nor
proceedings under statutes relating to dower, divorce, or alimony, or to establish
or set aside a will ; nor proceedings under statutes relating to apprentices, arbi
tration, bastardy, or insolvent debtors ; nor any special statutory remedy not
heretofore obtained by action ; but such proceedings maybe prosecuted under the
code, whenever it is applicable.
Sec. 908. [Proceedings under statutory actions.]—Where, by gen
eral or special statute, a civil action, legal or equitable, is given, and the mode of
proceeding therein is prescribed, this code shall not affect the proceedings under
such statute, until the legislature shall otherwise provide ; but in all such cases,
as far as it may be consistent with the statute giving such action, and practica
ble under this code, the proceedings shall be conducted in conformity thereto.
"Where the statute designates by name or otherwise the kind of action, but does
not prescribe the mode of proceeding therein, such action shall be commenced and
prosecuted in conformity to this code ; where the statute gives an action, but
does not designate the kind of action, or prescribe the mode of proceeding therein,
such action shall be held to be the civil action of this code, and proceeded in ac
cordingly.
Sec. 904. [Limited to county.]—The jurisdiction of justices of the peace
in civil cases snail, unless otherwise directed by law, be limited to the county
wherein they may have been elected, and where they shall reside.
Sec. 905. [Subject matter.] —Justices of the peace, within and co-exten
sive 'with iheir respective counties, Bhall have jurisdiction and authority : First.
To administer an oath or affirmation authorized or required by law to be admin
istered. Second. To take acknowledgment of deeds, mortgages, and other in
struments of writing. Third. To solemnize marriages. Fourth. To issue subpoe
na for witnesses and coerce their attendance in causes or matters pending before
them, or other cause or matter wherein they may be required to take depositions.
Fifth. To try the action for forcible entry and detention, or the detention only, of
real property. Sixth. To proceed against security for costs and bail for the Btay
of execution on their dockets. Seventh. To issue attachments, and proceed against
the goods and effects of debtors in certain cases. Eighth. To issue executions on
judgments rendered by them. Ninth. To proceed against constables, failing to
make return, making false return, or failing to pay over money collected on exe
cution, issued by such justice. Tenth. To try the right of the claimant to prop
erty taken in execution, or on attachment.
Sec. 906. [Same—Trespass.] —Justices of the peace shall have jurisdic
tion in actions for trespass on real estate, where the damages demanded for such
pass shall not exceed two hundred dollars, and no claim of title to such real
te set up by the defendant shall take away or affect the jurisdiction hereby
n. [Amended Feb. 28. Took effect June 1, 1881.]
Sec. 907. [No jurisdiction.] —Justices shall not have cognizance of any
action : Firtt. To recover damages for an assault, or assault and battery. Second.
In any action for malicious prosecution. Third. In actions against justices of the
peace or other officers for misconduct in office, except in the cases provided for in
this title. Fourth. In actions fof slander, verbal or written. Fifth. In actions on
contracts for real estate. Sixth. In actions in which the title to real estate is
sought to be recovered, or may be drawn in question, except actions for trespass
on real estate, which are provided for in this title.
CHAPTER n. —COMMENCEMENT OF BUTTS AND PROCEEDINGS IN ARREST AND ATTACHMENT.
Sec. 908. [Action, how commenced.] —Actions before justices of the
peace are commenced by summons or by the appearance and agreement of tha
Sarties without summons. In the former the action is deemed commenced, upon
elivery of the writ to the constable to be served ; and he shall note thereon tha
time or receiving the same. In the latter case the action is deemed commenced
at the time of docketing the case.
Sec. 909. [Guardians-Appointment.]—When a guardian to the suit is
necessary, he must be appointed by the justice as follows : First. If the infant
be plaintiff, the appointment must be made before the summons is issued, upon
the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years or upwards ; if
under that age, upon the application of some friend. The consent in writing of
the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible for costs if he fail in the ac
tion, must be hied with the justice. Second. If the infant be defendant, the guar
dian must be appointed before trial. It is the right of the infant to nominate his
own guardian, if the infant be over fourteen years of age, and the proposed guar
dian be present and consent in writing to be appointed. Otherwise the justice
may appoint any suitable person who gives such consent.
Sec. 910. [Summons—Style—Contents.] —The style of the summons
shall be : " The state of Nebraska, county ; " it shall be dated the day it is
issued, and signed by the justice issuing the same ; be directed to the constable or
sheriff of the proper county, (except in case a person be deputed to serve it, in
which case it shall be directed to such person) ; must contain the names of the
defendant or defendants, if known, and if unknown, give a description of him or
them, and command the officer, or person serving the same, to summon the de
fendant or defendants to appear before such justice, at his office, in county,
at a time specified therein ; and must describe the plaintiff's cause of action in
such general terms as to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against
him. There shall be endorsed on the writ, the amount for which the plaintiff will
take judgment if the defendant fail to appear. If the defendant fail to appear,
judgment shall not be rendered for a larger amount and the costs.
Sec. 911. [Same—Service—Returnable.] —The summons must be re
turnable not more than twelve days from its date, and must, unless accompanied
with an order to arrest, be served at least three days before the time of appear
ance, by delivering a copy of the summons, with the endorsement thereon, (certi
fied by the constable or person serving the same to be a true copy), to the defend
ant, or leaving the same at his usual place of residence ; Provided, That an ack
nowledgment on the back of the summons, or the voluntary appearance of a defend
ant is equivalent to service.
Sec. 912. [Same—Service on corporation.]—A summons against a
corporation may be served upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of
directors or trustees, or other chief officer ; or, if its chief officer be not found in
the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk or managing agent ; or if
none of the aforesaid officers can be found, by a copy left at the office or usual
place of business of such corporation, with the person having charge thereof.
SEC. 918. [Same—Insurance company.] —When the defendant is an
incorporated insurance company, and the action is brought in a county in which
there is an agency thereof, the service may be upon the chief officer of such agency.
Sec. 914. [Same—Foreign corporation.] —When the defendant is a
foreign corporation, having a managing agent in this state, the service may be upon
such agent.
SEC. 915. [Same—Minors,] —When the defendant is a minor under the
age of fourteen years, the service must be upon him and upon his guardian or
father ; or, if neither of these can be found, then upon hiB mother, or the person
having the care or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither of these
can be found, or if the minor be more than fourteen years of age, service on him
alone shall be sufficient. The manner of service may be the same as in the case
of adults.
appearance.
SEC. 916. [Parties entitled to one hour.]—The parties are entitled to
one hour in which to appear, after the time mentioned in the summons for appear-
ance, hut are not bound to remain longer than that time, unless both partieB hare
appeared, and the justice being present, is engaged in the trial of another cause.
In such case, the justice may postpone the time of appearance until the close of
such trial.
ARREST BEFORE JUDGMENT.
Sec. 917. [Grounds for order.] —An order for the arrest of the defendant
in a civil action, shall be made by the justice of the peace before whom the same
is brought, when there is riled in his office an affidavit of the plaintiff, his author
ized agent or attorney, made before any person authorized by law to administer
oaths, stating the nature of the plaintiff's claim, that it is just, the amount thereof
as near as may be, and establishing one or more of the followingparticulars : Fint.
That the defendant has removed or begun to remove any of his property out of
the county, with the intent to defraud his creditors. Second. That the defendant
has begun to convert his property, or any part thereof, into money, for the pur
pose of defrauding his creditors. Third. That he has property or rights in action
which he fraudulently conceals. Fourth. That he has assigned, removed, or dis
posed of, or begun to assign, remove, or dispose of his property, or any part
thereof, with intent to defraud his creditors. Fifth. That the defendant fraudu
lently contracted the debt or incurred the obligation for which suit is about to be
brought. The affidavit shall also contain a statement of the facts claimed to jus
tify the belief in the existence of one or more of the above particulars.
Sec. 918. [Order—When made.] —The order of arrest may be made to
accompany the summons, or at any time afterwards, before judgment.
Sec. 919. [Undertaking.] —The order of arrest shall not be issued by a
justice of the peace until there has been executed by the plaintiff, if a resident
freeholder of the county where the suit is brought, otherwise by one or more suf
ficient sureties of the plaintiff, a written undertaking, to the effect that the plain
tiff shall pay the defendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
arrest, if the order be wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount of
the plaintiff's claim, stated in the affidavit.
Sec. 920. [Order—Contents—Requirements.] —The order of arrest
■hall be addressed and delivered, with a copy of the affidavit, to a constable or
sheriff of the proper county ; it shall state the names of the parties, the amount
of the plaintiff's claim specified in the affidavit, be signed by the justice of the
peace issuing it, and shall require the constable or sheriff to arrest the defendant
and bring him forthwith before said justice.
Sec. 921. [Same—Execution.] —The officer receiving said order shall
execute the same by forthwith arresting the defendant and delivering to him a
copy thereof, and of the affidavit. And the defendant, so arrested, unless the
claim of the plaintiff, specified in the affidavit, and costs of suit, are paid, or un
less discharged from custody by order of the plaintiff, shall be taken by such
constable or sheriff forthwith before the justice of the peace by whom said order
of arrest was issued, and kept in custody until discharged by law.
SEC. 922. [Proceedings upon return.] —Upon return of said order of
arrest, executed in pursuance of the preceding section, the trial of said cause
shall proceed, unless for good cause shown, upon the application of either party,
or at the instance of the justice himself, the same shall be continued, as is pro
vided for in other cases before justices of the peace. And when the trial of said
cause is continued for any period, the defendant, upon executing with one or more
sufficient sureties, a written undertaking to the effect that he will pay the
amount of the judgment that may be rendered against him upon the final deter
mination of the action, or upon depositing in the hands of the justice of the peace
the amount of money mentioned in the order of arrest, and the probable amount
of costs of suit, shall be forthwith discharged from custody ; Provided, however,
That in no case shall the defendant be detained in the custody of the officer,
when Baid continuance has been for a period of more than forty-eight hours, un
lees said continuance has been made at the instance or with the consent of the
defendant himself.
ARREST AFTER JUDGMENT.
Sec. 923. [How made.] —On the judgment against the defendant in any
civil suit before a justice of the peace, when the defendant is in the custody of
the officer, as hereinbefore provided for, or if, after judgment against hito, there
is filed in the office of such justice an affidavit of the plaintiff, his authorized
agent or attorney, made before any person competent to administer an oath,
stating the amount of said judgment remaining unpaid, and establishing one or
more of the particulars mentioned in section nine hundred and seventeen, said
justice of the peace shall, unless otherwise ordered by the plaintiff, issue an exe
cution, and accompany the same with an order for the arrest of the defendant
Sec. 924. [Order—Proceedings.]—Said order of arrest shall be address
ed and delivered, with a copy of the affidavit, to the officer having said execution,
and shall state the names of the parties, be signed by the justice issuing it, and
state the amount of the judgment and costs unpaid, and shall require the officer,
in case the same shall not be paid, or an amount of property of the defendant
whereon to levy execution sufficient to satisfy the same cannot be found ia bis
county, to arrest the defendant, if not already in the custody of the officer, and
deliver him to the sheriff of the proper county, to be committed by him to the jail
of the county, and kept in custody until discharged by law; Provided, however,
That no such order of arrest be issued until the undertaking required by the nine
hundred and nineteenth section of this code shall have been executed.
ATTACHMENT.
Sec. 925. [Grounds for order.]—The plaintiff shall have an order of
attachment against the property of the defendant, in a civil action before a justice
of the peace, for the recovery of money before or after the commencement thereof,
when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney,
showing the nature of the plaintiff's claim, that it is just, the amount which the
affiant believes the plaintiff ought to recover, and the existence of some one or more
of the following particulars : First. That the defendant, or one of the several
defendants, is a foreign corporation, or is a non-resident of the state ; or, Second.
Has absconded, with intent to defraud his creditors : or, Third. Has left the
county of his residence to avoid the service of a summons ; or, Fourth. So con
ceals himself, that a summons cannot be served upon him ; or, Fifth. Is about
to remove his property, or a part thereof, out of the county, with the intent to
defraud his creditors ; or, Sixth. Is about to convert Ins property, or a part
thereof, into money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors ;
or, Seventh. Has property or rights in action, which he conceals ; or, Eighth.
Has assigned, removed, or disposed of, or is about to dispose of, his property, or
a part thereof, with intent to defraud his creditors ; or, Ninth. Fraudulently
contracted the debt, or incurred the obligation for which suit is about to be, or
has been, brought. When the defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resi
dent of the state, the attachment shall not be granted, unless the claim is for a
debt or demand arising upon contract, judgment, or decree.
Sec. 926. [Undertaking.]—When the ground of attachment is that the
defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of the state, the order of
attachment may be issued without an undertaking, but in all other cases the
order of attachment shall not be issued by the justice until there has been executed
in his office, by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, to be approved by
the justice, an undertaking not exceeding double the amount of the plaintiff's
claim, to the effect that the plaintiff shall pay the defendant all damages which
he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the order be wrongfully obtained.
Sec, 927. [Order—When issued—Contents.]—The order of attachment
may be made to accompany the summons, or it may be issued at any time after
-wards, before judgment ; it shall be addressed and delivered to any constable or
sheriff of the proper county, and shall require him to attach the goods, chattels,
stoeks, or interests in stocks, rights, credits, moneys, and effects of the defendant
in his county, not exempt by law from being applied to the payment of the
plaintiff's claim, or so much thereof, as will satisfy the plaintiff's claim, to be
stated in the order as in the affidavit, and the probable costs of the action, not
exceeding fifty dollars.
Sec. 928. [Same—Returnable.] —The return day of the order of attach,
ment, when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the same as that
of the summons; when issued afterwards, it shall be executed and returned
forthwith.
Sec. 929. [Same—Execution—Several orders.]—When there are sev
eral orders of attachment against the same person, in the hands of the same
officer, they shall be executed in the order in which they are received by said
officer ; he shall go to the place where the defendant's property may be found,
and there, in the presence of two credible persons, declare that, by virtue of
said order he attaches said property at the suit of said plaintiff ; and the officer,
with two residents of the county, who shall be first sworn or affirmed by the
officer, shall make a true inventory and appraisement of all property attached,
which shall be signed by the officer and said residents, and returned with the
order ; when the property can be come at, he Bhall take the same into his custody,
and hold it subject to the order of the justice.
Sec. 930. [Property delivered on bail.]—The officer shall deliver the
property attached to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the
execution by such person, in the presence of the officer of an undertaking to tb*
plaintiff, with one or more sufficient sureties resident in the county, to the effect
that the parties to the same are bound, in double the appraised value thereof,
that the property, or its appraised value in money, shall be forthcoming to
answer the judgment of the court in the action ; but if it Bhall appear to the court
that any part of said property has been lost or destroyed by unavoidable accident,
the value thereof shall be remitted to the person or persons so bound.
Sec. 931. [Several attachments—Appraisement.]—Different attach
ments of the same property may be made, and one inventory and appraisement
shall be sufficient. The lien of the attachments shall be in the order in which
they are served, and the subsequent attachments shall be served on the property,
as in the hands of the officer, and subject to the prior attachments. The justice
who issued the attachment having the priority of lien, shall determine all ques
tions as to the priority of liens on the property attached.
Sec. 932. [Order—Service.] —If the order of attachment ismadetoaccomSany
the summons, a copy thereof, and the summons, shall be served upon the
efendant in the usual manner for the service of a summons, if the same can be
done within the county ; and when any property of the defendant has been taken
under the order of attachment, and it shall appear that the Bummons issued on
the action has not been and cannot be served on the defendant in the county, in
the manner prescribed by law, the justice of the peace shall continue the cause
for a period not less than forty days nor more than sixty days, whereupon the
plaintiff shall proceed for three consecutive weeks to publish, in some newspaper
printed in the county, or if none be printed therein, then in some newspaper of
general circulation in said county, a notice, stating the names of the parties, the
time when, by what justice of the peace, and for what sum said order was issued,
and shall make proof of such publication to the justice ; and thereupon said action
shall be proceeded with, the Bame as if summons had been duly served.
Sec. 938. [Sale of perishable property.]—When the cause is continu
ed as provided for in the preceding section, and it shall appear that any of th«
property taken under the attachment is live stock, or is of a perishable nature, th»
justice may issue his order, directing the officer having the custody thereof to dis
pose of the same as upon execution ; and the moneys realized therefrom shall b*
paid over to the justice, and applied as other money realized from the sale of
property attached is applied.
Sec. 934. [Garnishment—Affidavit—Notice.]—When the plaintiff, his
agent, or attorney, shall make oath in writing that he has good reason to believe,
and does believe, that any person or corporation, to be named, and within the
county where the action is brought, has property of the defendant (describing the
same) in his possession, if the officer cannot come at such property, he shall leave
with Buch garnishee a copy of the order of attachment, with a written notice, that
lie appear before the justice at the return of the order of attachment, and answer
£8 provided in section nine hundred and thirty-six.
Sec. 936. [Garnishee, how served.] —The copy of the order and the no
tice shall be served upon the garnishee, as follows : If he be a person, they shall
be served upon him personally, or left at his usual place of residence ; if a cor
poration, they shall be left with the president or other head of the same, or the
secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof.
Sec. 936. [Same—Answer.] —The garnishee shall appear before the jus
tice, in accordance with the command of the notice, and shall answer, under oath,
all questions put to him touching the property of every description, and credits
of the defendant in his possession or under his control, and ne shall disclose,
truly, the amount owing by him to the defendant, whether due or not, and, in
case of a corporation, any stock therein held by or for the benefit of the defend
ant, at or after the service of the notice.
Sec. 937. [Same—Payment by—Discharge—Costs.]—A garnishee
may pay the money owing to the defendant by him, to the officer having the or
der of attachment, or into the court. He shall be discharged from liability to the
defendant for any money so paid, not exceeding the plaintiffs claim. He shall
not be subj ected to costs beyond those caused by his resistance of the claim against
him ; and if he disclose the property in his hands, or the true amount owing by
him, and deliver or pay the Bame according to the order of the court, he shafl be
allowed his costs.
Sec. 988. [Same—Failure to answer.] —If the garnishee do not appear
and answer, as required by section nine hundred and thirty-six, the justice may
proceed against him by attachment, as for a contempt.
Sec. 989. [Same—When debtor—Proceedings.] —If the garnishee ap
pear and answer, and it is discovered on his examination that at or after the serv
ice of the order of attachment and notice upon him he was possessed of any prop
erty of the defendant, or was indebted to him, the justice may order the delivery of
such property and the payment of the amount owing by the garnishee into th«
court, or may permit the garnishee to retain the property or the amount owing,
upon the execution of an undertaking to the plaintiff, by one or more sufficient
sureties to the effect that the amount shall be paid, or the property forthcoming,
as the court may direct.
Sec. 940. [Further proceedings against garnishee.]—If the gar
nishee fail to appear and answer, or if he appear and answer, and bis disclosure
is not satisfactory to the plaintiff, or if he fail to comply with the order of the
justice to deliver the property and pay the money owing into the court, or give
the undertaking required in the preceding section, the plaintiff may proceed
against him in an action in his own name, as in other cases ; and thereupon such
proceedings may be had as in other actions and judgment may be rendered in
favor of the plaintiff, for the amount of property and credits of every kind of the
defendant, in the possession of the garnishee, and for what shall appear to be
owing by him to the defendant, and for the costs of the proceedings against the
garnishee. If the plaintiff proceed against the garnishee by action, for the cause
that his disclosure was unsatisfactory, unless it appear in the action that such
disclosure was incomplete, the plaintiff shall pay the costs of such action.
The judgment in this action may be enforced as judgments in other caBes.
When the claims of the plaintiff in attachment are satisfied, the defendant hi tha
attachment may, on motion; be substituted as the plaintiff in the judgment.
Sec. 941. [Judgment, when rendered—Discharge of garnishee.}
—Final judgment shall not be rendered against the garnishee until the action
against the defendant in attachment has been determined ; and if, in such action,
judgment be rendered for the defendant in attachment, the garnishee shall be dis
charged and recover costs. If the plaintiff shall recover against the defendant in
attachment, and the garnishee shall deliver up all property, moneys, and credits
of the defendant, in his possession, and pay all the moneys from him due as the
court may order, the garnishee shall be discharged and the costs of the proceedings
against him shall be paid out of the property and moneys so surrendered, or as
the court may think right and proper.
Sec. 942. [Judgment for defendant.] —If judgment be rendered in the
action for the defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the property
attached or its proceeds shall be returned to him.
Sec. 948. [Same—For plaintiff—Satisfaction.]—If judgment be ren
dered for the plaintiff it shall be satisfied as follows : So much of the property remain
ing in the hands of the officer, after applying the moneys arising from the sale of
perishable property,' if any, whether held by legal or equitable right, as*may be
necessary to satisfy the judgment, shall be sold by order of the justice, under the
same restrictions and regulations as if the same had been levied on by execution ;
and the money arising therefrom, with the amount which may be recovered from
the garnishee, shall be applied to satisfy the judgment and costs. If there be not
enough to satisfy the same, the judgment shall stand, and execution may ibbus
thereon for the residue, in all respects as in other cases. Any surplus of the at
tached property or its proceeds, snail be returned to the defendant.
Sec. 944. [Property retaken, when.]—The justice may order the offi
cer to repossess himself, for the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached prop
erty which may have passed out of his hands without being sold or converted into
money, and the officer shall, under such order, have the same power to take the
property as he would have under an order of attachment.
Sec. 945. [Intervening claimants.] — If any of the property which has
been attached, be claimed by any person other than the defendant, the claimant
may have the validity of such claim tried, and such proceedings must be had
thereon, with like effect, as in case the property had been seized upon execution
issued by the justice and claimed by a third person.
SEC. 946. [Priority of attachments.]-^Where several attachments are
executed on the same property, or the same persons are made garnishees, the jus
tice issuing the first order, served on the motion of any of the plaintiffs, may de
termine the amounts and priorities of the several attachments, and the proceeds'
shall be applied accordingly.
Sec. 947. [Return to writ.] —The officer shall return upon every order of
attachment what he has done under it. The return must show the property at
tached and the time it was attached. When garnishees are served, their names,
and the time each was served, must be stated. The officer shall also return, with
the order, all undertakings given under it.
Sec. 948. [Order binds property—When.] --An order of attachment
binds the property attached from the time of service, and the garnishee shall stand
liable to the plaintiff in attachment for all property, moneys and credits in his
hands, or due from him to the defendant, from the time he is served with the writ
ten notice, mentioned in section nine hundred and thirty-four ; but when property
is attached in the hands of a consignee, or other person having a prior lien, ink
lien thereon shall not be affected by the attachment.
Sec. 949. [Property released on bail.] —If the defendant, or other per
son in his behalf, at any time before judgment, cause an undertaking to be exe
cuted to the plaintiff by one or more sureties resident in the county, to be ap
proved by the justice, in double the amount of the plaintiff's claim, to be stated
in his affidavit, to the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the
justice, the attachment in such action shall be discharged and restitution made of
any property taken under it, or the proceeds thereof ; such undertaking shall also
discharge the liability of a garnishee in such action, for any property of the de
fendant in his hands.
Sec. 950. [Action transferred to district court.] —If in any case
where an order of attachment has been issued by a justice of the peace, it shall
appear from the return of the officer and from the examination of the garnishee,
that no property, moneys, rights, credits or effects of the defendant have
been taken under the attachment, but that the defendant is the owner of an in
terest in real estate in the county, the justice before whom said action is pending
shall, at the request of the plaintiff, forthwith certify his proceedings to the dis
trict court of the proper county, and thereupon the clerk of said court shall docket
said cause, and the action shall be proceeded with in said court, in all respects as
if the same had originated therein.
CHAPTER in. —BILL OF PARTICULARS.
Sec. 951. [Filing.] —In all cases before a justice, the plaintiff, his agent or
attorney, shall file with such justice a. bill of the particulars of his demand, and
the defendant, if required by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall file a like
bill of the particulars he may claim as a set-off; and the evidence on the trial
shall be confined to the items set forth in said bills.
Sec. 952. [Contents.] —The bill of particulars must state, in a plain and
direct manner, the facts constituting the cause of action, or the claim to be
set-off.
Sec. 953. [Amendments.]—The bill of particulars may be amended at any
time before the trial, or during the trial, or upon appeal, to supply any deficiency
or omission in the items, when by such amendments substantial justice will bi
promoted. If the amendment be made at the time of or during the trial, and it
be made to appear to the satisfaction of the justice, by oath, that an adjourn
ment is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such amendment, an
adjournment must be granted. The justice may also, in his discretion, require
as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be
fixed by the justice ; but such payment cannot be required unless an adjournment
is made necessary by the amendment.
CHAPTER IV. —CHANGE OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL.
SEC. 954. [Grounds for.] —The place of trial may be changed if on the re
turn of process, or at any time before trial shall have commenced, it shall be
made satisfactorily to appear to the justice of the peace before whom any cause
is instituted, or is pending for trial, by the affidavit of either of the parties in
the case, that such justice is a material witness for either party, or if a jury
be demanded by the adverse party, then that he cannot, as he verily believes,
have a fair and impartial trial in the precinct or place for which said justice may
have been elected, on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens thereof.
Sec. 955. [Where transferred.] —If the place of trial be changed on ac
count of the justice being a material witness in the cause, such cause may be
transferred for trial before some other justice of the peace in the same precinct.
If the place of trial be changed on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens
of such precinct or place, the case shall be taken to some justice in an adjoining
precinct in the same county.
Sec. 956. [Transfer of papers and record.]—The justice granting such
change shall deliver or transmit the papers in the cause, together with a certified
transcript of the proceedings before him, to the justice to whom such change may
be granted, who shall proceed therein and have the same jurisdiction, powers and
duties, in all respects whatever, as if suit had been originally instituted before
him.
Sec. 957. [Costs.] —Before any such change shall be allowed, the costs, as
specified in the next following section, shall be paid by the party applying for such
change.
Seo. 958. [Same.] —When such change is at the instance of the plaintiff, he
shall be taxed with all the costs which have accrued and which shall accrue in
the cause, until such transcript and papers shall be delivered to the justice to
whom such cauBe is removed for trial ; and when on the application of the defen
dant, he shall be taxed for the costs which have accrued for issuing subpoenas for
witnesses and service thereof, witness fees and costs of the justice for transferring
the cause to the docket of the other justice.
Bec. 958a. [Same—Interest—Biasofjustice.]—Sec. 1. That in all civil
and criminal proceedings before justices of the peace, any defendant in such proceed
ings may apply for and obtain a change of venue, by filing an affidavit in the case
made by the defendant, his agent or attorney, stating that the defendant cannot,
as affiant verily believes, have a fair and impartial hearing in the case on account
of the interest, bias, or prejudice of the justice, and by paying the costs now re
quired to be paid by defendant on change of venue, for the causes and in the
■cases mentioned in chapter four of title thirty, part two of the revised statutes,
and thereupon the proceedings shall be transferred to the nearest justice of the
peace, to whom the said objections do not apply, of the same county, to be pro
ceeded with in the manner pointed out for the transfer and procedure in cases on
«hange of venue for cause mentioned in said chapter four. [1871 § 1, 110.]
Sec. 958 b. [Same—Application—When made.] —Sec. 2. The applica
tion shall be made before entering upon the merits of the case by the introduction
and reception of evidence ; and no second change of venue shall be allowed for
the same cause in the same proceeding.
CHAPTER V. —ADJOURNMENTS.
Sec. 959. [On motion of justice.]—Upon the return day, if a jury be
required, or if the justice be actually engaged m other official business, he may
adjourn the trial without the consent of either party, as follows : First. Where a
party is in attendance who is not a resident of the county, or where the defendant
is in attendance under arrest, the adjournment not to exceed forty-eight hours,
and the defendant, if under arrest, to continue in custody. Second. In other
eases, not to exceed eight days, unless by consent of parties. If the trial be not
adjourned, it must take place immediately upon the return of the summons.
Sec. 960. [On application of party.] —The trial may be adjourned upon
the application of either party, without the consent of the other, for a period not
exceeding thirty days, as follows : The party asking the adjournment must, if
required by his adversary, prove by his own oath, or otherwise, that he cannot,
for want of material testimony which he expects to procure, safely proceed to
trial.
SEC. 961. [Same—Further adjournments.] —An adjournment may be
had either at the return day, or at any subsequent time to which the cause may
stand adjourned, on the application of either party, for a period longer than thirty
days, but not to exceed ninety days from the time of the return of the summons,
upon compliance with the provisions of the preceding Bection, and upon proof by
oath of the party, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the justice, that such party
•cannot be ready for trial before the time to which he desires an adjournment for
want of material evidence, describing it, that the delay has not been made nec
essary by any act or negligence on his part since the action was commenced, and
4hat he expects to procure the evidence at the time stated by him.
Sec. 962. [Subpoena—When issued.]—Any justice may issue Bubpcenae
to compel the attendance of witnesses to give evidence on any trial pending Before
himself, or for tbe purpose of taking depositions, or to perpetuate testimony.
Sec. 968. [Same—Service.] —A subpoena may be served by a constable or
any other person, and shall be served by reading the same or stating the contents
thereof to the witness, or by leaving a copy thereof at his usual place of residence.
SEC. 964. [Fees.] —When not served by a constable or sheriff, or some
person deputed for that purpose by a justice, no fees shall be charged in the suit
for serving it.
SEC. 965. [Costs.]—If any witness, having been subpoenaed, attend and be
not examined by either party, the costs of such witness shall be paid by the party
ordering the subpoena, unless the adverse party, by confessing the matter, or oth
erwise, render unnecessary the examination of such witness.
SEC. 966. [Contempt of subpoena—Arrest, etc.] —Whenever it shall
appear to the satisfaction of a justice, by proof made before him, that any person
has been duly served with a subpoena to appear and give testimony before him in
any matter in which he has authority to require such witness to appear and tes
tify, that his testimony is material, and that he refuses or neglects to attend as
such witness in conformity with such subpoena, the justice shall issue a warrant
for the arrest of the delinquent, for the purpose of compelling his attendance, and
punishing his disobedience.
SEC. 967. [Same—Punishment.]—When a person arrested is brought be
fore the justice, or when a person in attendance refuses to testify as a witness,
and no valid excuse be shown, the justice may impose a fine on him not exceed
ing five dollars. An entry of such fine, stating the reason therefor, must be made
by the justice in his docket, and thereupon shall have the effect of a judgment in
favor of the state of Nebraska against the delinquent, and may be enforced against
his person or property.
SEC. 968. [Neglect of witness—Liability.] —Every person subpoenaed
as aforesaid, and neglecting to appear, or refusing to testify, shall also be liable
to the party in whose behalf he shall have been subpoenaed, for all damages which
such party shall sustain by reason of such delinquency.
SEC. 969. [Deposition—When taken.] —Depositions may be taken to be
read in a cause pending before a justice of the peace, in like manner, and subject
to the same restrictions and rules of law as in cases pending in the district court.
CHAPTER VII. —THE TRIAL.
SEC. 970. [When held.] —At the time appointed for trial, if no jury shall
have been demanded by either party, the justice Bhall proceed to try the action,
shall hear the proofs, and determine the cause according to law and the right.
SEC. 971. [Appearance without process.]—Where parties agree to en
ter, without process, before a justice, any action of which such justice has cogni
zance, such justice shall enter the same on his docket, and proceed to trial, judg
ment, and execution, in all respects in the same manner as if summons had been
issued, served and returned.
SEC. 972. [Jury trial—Adjournment.]—In all civil actions, after the
appearance of the defendant, and before the court shall proceed to inquire into
the merits of the cause, either party may demand a jury to try the action, which
jury shall be composed of six good and lawful men, having the qualifications of
electors, unless the parties shall agree on a less number. When a jury is de
manded, the trial of the cause must be adjourned until a time fixed for thereturm
of the jury. If neither party desire an adjournment, the time must be determined
by the justice, and must be on the same day, or within the next two days the
jury must be immediately selected, as herein provided. ,
8kc. 978. [Jury selection.]—The justice shall write in a panei, the names
of eighteen persons, citizens of the county, from which the defendant, his agent, or
attorney, shall strike one, and then the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, shall
strike one, and so on alternately, until each shall have stricken six names, and
the remaining six shall constitute the jury to try such case ; and if either party
neglect or refuse to aid in striking the jury as aforesaid, the justice shall strike
the same in behalf of such party. [Amended 1869, 90. Took effect first Monday
in April, 1869.]
Sec. 974. [Venire.] —The justice thereupon shall issue a summons for the
jury, in which the following form shall be observed in substance, as near as
practicable :
Thb State of Nebraska, (
County, f
To any Constable or the Sheriff of said County:
You are hereby commanded to summon ——— to appear before me at my
office, in said county, on the — day of , a. d. —, at — o'clock in the noon, to
serve as jurors in a case pending before me, then and there to be tried. And this
they shall in nowise omit. And have you then and there this writ, with your doings
thereon.
Given under my hand, this — day of , a. d. —.
-, Justice of the Peace.
[Const, sec. 24, Art. VI.]
Sec. 975. [Same—Service—Neglect of juror—Penalty.]—The of
ficer shall serve such summons by a personal service thereof, and return the same,
endorsed with the names of the persons summoned, at the time appointed for the
trial of the case. Jurors, for neglecting to attend when properly summoned, or
refusing to serve when in attendance, shall.be liable to the like penalty, and be pro
ceeded against in the same manner as witnesses who fail to attend or refuse to
testify.
SEC. 976. [Officer attend trial—Additional jurors.]—The constable
or sheriff shall be in attendance on the court at and during the progress of the
trial; and if, from challenge or other cause, the panel shall not be full, .he may
fill the same in the same manner as is done by the sheriff in the district court.
Sec. 977. [Continuance—Notice to jurors.] —When a jury shall be in
attendance, and the cause shall be continued, the jurors must attend at the time
and place appointed for ''trial, without further notice.
Sec. 978. [Objections to jurors.] —If either party object to the compe
tency of a juror, the question thereon must be tried in a summary manner by the
justice, who may examine the juror or other witness under oath.
Sec. 979. [Oath of jury.] —The justice shall administer an oath or affirm
ation to the jury, well and truly to try the matter in difference between the
parties, and a true verdict to give according to the evidence.
Sec. 980. [Conduct of jury before verdict.] —After the jury shall
have been sworn, they shall sit together and hear proofs and allegations of
the parties ; and after hearing the same, shall be kept together in some conven
ient place, under charge of a constable or sheriff, until they have agreed upon
their verdict, or shall be discharged by the justice.
Sec. 981. [Verdict—Entry.] —When the jury shall have agreed upon their
verdict, they shall deliver it to the justice, publicly, who shall enter it upon his
docket.
Sec. 982. [Failure to agree—Continuance.]—Whenever the justice
shall be satisfied that a jury, sworn in any cause before him, cannot agree in the
verdict, after having, consulted upon it a reasonable time, he may discharge them
and continue the cause, and may, if required by either party, proceed to strike
another jury, as hereinbefore provided. The cause shall be continued to such
time as the justice thinks reasonable, unless the parties, or their attorneys, agree
on a longer or shorter time, or unless they agree that the justice may render
judgment on the evidence already before him.
Sec. 988. [New trial—When granted.;—It shall be lawful for the jus
tice before whom a cause has been tried, on motion, and being satisfied that the
verdict was obtained by fraud, partiality, or undue means, at any time within
four days after the entering of judgment, to grant a new trial, and he shall set
a time for the new trial, of which the opposite party shall have three days notice.
Sec. 984. [Same—Notice of motion.] —The opposite party shall also
have a reasonable notice of such motion for a new trial, if the same is not made
on the day of the former trial, and in the presence of such party ; such notice tobe
given by the applying party. If the new trial shall be granted or the jury be
unable to agree, the proceedings shall be in all respects as upon the return of the
summons.
Sec. 985. [Appeal, when allowed.]—If either the plaintiff or defendant,
in his bill of particulars, claims more than twenty dollars the case may be ap
pealed to the district court ; but if neither party demands a greater sum than
twenty dollars, and the case is tried by a jury, there shall be no appeal.
Sec. 986. [Judgment in district court.]—If, on an appeal by the
plaintiff, from a judgment in his favor, he shall not recover a larger sum than
twenty dollars exclusive of interest since the rendition of the judgment before the
the justice, he shall be adjudged to pay all costs in the district court including a
fee of five dollars to the defendant's attorney ; and in case the defendant shall
demand a set-off greater than twenty dollars, and he appeals from a judgment in
his favor and does not recover twenty dollars, he shall, in like manner, pay all cost*
in the appellate court, including a like fee to the plaintiff's attorney. [Amended
Feb. 25. Took effect June 1, 1881.]
Sec. 987. [Fees of jury—Costs.]—Upon the verdict being delivered tothe
justice, and before judgment being rendered thereon, each juror shall be entitled to receive fifty cents at the hands of the successful party, which shall be
taxed in the cost bill against the losing party. When the jury shall be unable to
agree upon a verdict, the same compensation shall be paid them by the party call'
ing the jury, and the same shall be taxed in the cost bill against the losing party.
Sec. 988. [Bill of exceptions.] —In all cases which shall be triea by a
jury before a justice of the peace, either party shall have the right to except to
the opinion of the justice, upon any question of law arising during the trial of
the cause ; and when either party shall allege such exception, it shall be the duty
of the justice to sign and seal a bill, containing such exception, if truly alleged,
with the point decided, so that the same may be made part of the record in the
cause.
ABBITRATION8.
Sec. 989. [Submission,] —At any time before trial and judgment rendered,,
the plaintiff and defendant consenting thereto, may have the cause submitted tothe
arbitrament of three disinterested men, who shall be chosen by the parties ;
and if the arbitrators be present they shall hear and determine the cause on oath
or affirmation, to be administered by the justice. But if the persons chosen as
arbitrators be not present, the justice shall issue summons for them to attend at
the time and place appointed for the trial, which shall be served by any constable,
sheriff, or the parties, as they may agree. The fees of arbitrators shall be the
same as that paid to jurors.
Sec. 990. [Award.] —When the arbitrators shall convene and be qualified, they
shall proceed to hear and determine the cause, and make out their award in writ
ing, which shall be valid when signed by any two of them, and return the same to
the justice, who shall thereupon enter such award upon his docket, and thereon
render judgment and issue execution as in other cases.
Sec. 991. [Judgment on award.]—Every judgment rendered on such
award, shall conclude the rights of the parties thereto, unless it shall he made to
appear to the justice of the peace who rendered such judgment, and \ttthin ten
days of the rendition of the same, or to the district court, on appeal, that such
award was obtained by fraud, corruption, or other undue means.
Sec. 992. [Award' set aside— When.]— Whenever satisfactory proof
shall be adduced before such justice, within the period aforesaid, that sucn award
was obtained by fraud, corruption or other undue means, it shall be competent for
such justice to set aside such award and his judgment thereon rendered, and
thereupon proceed to such final trial and judgment, as if such award had never
been made.
- Sec. 998. [Same—Appeal—Affidavit.]—But no appeal shall be allowed
to the district court from a judgment of a justice of the peace rendered on an
award, unless the party praying such appeal shall file with such justice an affi
davit, therein stating that he or she does verily believe that such award was ob
tained by fraud, corruption or other undue means.
Sec. 994. [Judgment of district court.]—And if on appeal from the
judgment of a justice rendered on any such award, the district court shall be sat
isfied that the award was obtained by fraud, corruption or other undue means,
such court shall set aside the award, and proceed to hear and determine the cause
on the merits, as in other cases of appeal.
Sec. 995. [Same.] —But if the court shall be of the opinion that the award
was not obtained by fraud, corruption or other undue means, they shall render
judgment thereon for the costs of suit and award execution as in other cases.
TRIAL OP THE RIGHT OF PROPERTY LEVIED ON OR ATTACHED.
Sec. 996. [Trial.] —When a constable or sheriff shall levy on or attach property
claimed by any person or persons other than the party against whom the execution
or attachment issued, the claimant or claimants shall give three days notice, in
writing, to the plaintiff or his agent, or if not found within the county, then Buch
notiee shall be served by leaving a copy thereof at his usual place of abode in
such county, of the time and place of the trial of the right to such property,
which trial shall be had before some justice of the county, at least one day prior
to the time appointed for the sale of such property.
Sec. 997. [Judgment for claimant.]—If on the trial, the justice shall
be satisfied from the proof that the property, or any part thereof belongs to
the claimant or claimants (or in case when a jury is demanded, the jury so find),
such justice shall render judgment against the party, in whose favor such execu
tion or attachment issued for the costs and issue execution therefor, and shall,
moreover, give a written order to the officer who levied on, or who may be charged
with the duty of selling such property, directing him tq restore the same, or so
much thereof as may have been found to belong to such claimant or claimants.
[Amended 1875, 48. Took effect Feb. 25, 1875.]
Sec. 998. [Judgment against claimant.] —Butif the claimant orclaim-
ants fail to establish his or their right to such property, or any part thereof, the
justice-shall render judgment against such claimant or claimants for the costs
that have accrued on account of such trial, and issue execution therefor ; and
the officer shall not be liable to the claimant or claimants for the property so
taken.
CHAPTER VTII. —JUDGMENT.
Sec. 999. [Action dismissed without prejudice.]—Judgment that
the action be dismissed without prejudice to a new action, may be entered with
costs, in the following cases : First. When the plaintiff voluntarily dismisses the
action before it is finally submitted. Second. When he fails to appear at the time
specified in the summons, or upon adjournment, or within one hour thereafter.
8«c. 1000. [Failure to appear.]—If the plaintiff fail to appear at th«
return day of the summons, ana nis hill of particulars be not filed, and there be
no evidence before the justice, the action must be dismissed. If the defendant
j fail to appear at the return day of the summons, or if either party fail to attend
at the time to which a trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary bill
of particulars, or fail in the proof on his part, the cause may proceed at tho
request of the adverse party, and judgment must be given in conformity with the
bill of particulars and proofs.
Seo. 1001. [In absence of defendant, how set aside.]—When judg
ment shall have been rendered against a defendant in his absence, the same may
be set aside upon the following conditions : First. That his motion be mads
within ten days after such judgment was entered. Second. That he pay or con
fess judgment for the costs awarded against him. Third. That he notify in writ
ing the opposite party, his agent, or attorney, or cause it to be done, of the open
ing of such judgment and of the time and place of trial, at least five days before
the time, if the party reside in the county, and if he be not a resident of the
county, by leaving a written notice thereof at the office of the justice ten days
before the trial.
Seo. 1002. [On verdict.] —Upon a verdict, the justice must immediately
render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the justice, judgment must
be entered immediately after the close of the trial, if the defendant has been
arrested or his property attached ; in other cases it must be entered either at the
close of the trial, or if the justice then desire further time to consider, on or by
the fourth day thereafter, both days inclusive.
Sec. 1003. [Amount in excess of jurisdiction.]—When the amount
due to either party exceeds the sum for which the justice is authorized to enter
judgment, such party may remit the excess, and judgment may be entered for th»
residue. A defendant need not remit such excess, and may withhold setting th»
same off, and a recovery for the amount set off and allowed, or any part thereof,
shall not be a bar to his subsequent action for the amount withheld.
Sec. 1004. [Offer to confess.]—If the defendant, at any time before trial,
offer, in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum,
the plaintiff may immediately have judgment therefor, with the costs then
accrued. But if he do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover
in the action a sum equal to the offer, he cannot recover costs accrued after the
offer; but costs must be adjudged against him. But the offer and failure to
accept it, cannot be given in evidence, to affect the recovery, otherwise than as to
costs as above provided.
Sec. 1005. [When defendant subject to arrest.]—Where judgment is
rendered in a case where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment, it
must be so stated in the judgment, and entered in the justice's docket.
CHAPTER IX. —APPEALS.
Sec. 1006. [Allowance.]—In all cases, not otherwise specially provided for
by law, either party may appeal from the final judgment of any justice of the
peace, to the district court of the county where the judgment was rendered.
Sec. 1007. [Undertaking.]—The party appealing shall, within ten days
from the rendition of judgment, enter into an undertaking to the adverse party,
with at least one good and sufficient surety to be approved by such justice, in a
nan not leea than fifty dollars in any case, nor less than double the amount of
judgment and costs, conditioned : First, That the appellant will prosecute his ap
peal to effect and without unnecessary delay. Second, That if judgment be ad
judged against him on the appeal, he will satisfy such judgment and costs. Such
undertaking need not be signed by the appellant.
Seo. 1008. [Transcript.] —The saidjustice snail make out a certified trans
cript of his proceedings, including the undertaking taken for such appeal, and
shall, on demand, deliver the same to the appellant or his agent, who shall deliv
er the same to the clerk of the court to which such appeal may be taken, within
thirty days next following the rendition of such judgment ; and such justice shall'
also deliver or transmit the bill or bills of particulars, the depositions and all other
original papers if any used on the trial before him, to such clerk, on or before the
second day of such term ; and all other proceedings before the justice of the peace
in that case shall cease and be stayed from the time of entering into such under
taking. [Amended 1877, 15. Took effect June 1, 1877.]
Sec. 1009. [Docketing.] —The clerk, on receiving such transcript and other
papers as aforesaid, shall file the same and docket the appeal.
Seo. 1010. [Proceedings in district court.] —The plaintiff in the court
below Bhall be the plaintiff in the district court ; and the parties shall proceed,
in all respects, in the same manner as though the action had been originally insti
tuted in the said court.
Seo. 1010 a. [Same—Pleadings.] —Sec. 1. That in all cases of appeal from
the county court or a justice of the peace, the plaintiff shall, within twenty days
from and after the filing of his transcript in the district court as required by law,
file his petition as required in civil cases in the court to which such appeal is tak
en ; and the answer snail be filed and issue joined as in cases commenced in such
appellate court. [1877 § 1, 17.]
Seo. 1011. [Same—Failure to perfect appeal.]—If the appellant shall
faQ to deliver the transcript and other papers, if any, to the clerk, and have his
appeal docketed as aforesaid within thirty days next following the rendition of
said judgment, the appellee may, at the first term of the district court after the ex
piration of thirty days, file a transcript of the proceedings of such justice, and the
said cause shall, on motion of said appellee, be docketed ; and the court is author
ized and required, on his application, either to enter up a judgment in his favor
similar to that entered by the justice of the peace, and for all the costs that have
accrued in the court and award execution thereon, or such court may, with the con
sent of such appellee, dismiss the apneal, at the cost of the appellant, and remand
the cause to the justice of the peace to be thereafter proceeded in as if no appeal
had been taken ; and if the plaintiff in the action before the justice shall appeal
from any judgment rendered against such plaintiff, and after having filed his trans
cript and caused such appeal to be docketed according to the provisions of this chapter, shall fail to file his petition within twenty days thereafter, unless the
court on good cause shovn, shall otherwise order or otherwise neglect to prosecute
the same to final judgment, the said plaintiff shall become non-suited, and it shall
be the duty of said court to render judgment against such appellant for the amount
of the judgment rendered against him by the justice, together with interest
accrued thereon, and for costs of suit, and to award execution therefor, as in other
cases. [Amended 1887, chap. 97. Took effect July 1, 1887.]
Seo. 1012. [Same—Failure of both parties.]—If both parties fail to
enter such appeal within the time limited as aforesaid, the justice, on receiving a
certificate from the clerk of the court, stating that the appeal was not entered, or,
being entered, was dismissed as aforesaid, shall thereupon issue execution upon
the judgment in the same manner as if such appeal had never been taken.
Sec. 1018. [Costs—Against appellant, when.]—If any person appeal
ing from a judgment rendered in his favor, shall not recover a greater sum than
the amount for which judgment was rendered, besides costs and the interest
accruing thereon, every such appellant shall pay the costs of such appeal.
Sec. 1014. [Surety In undertaking—Liability.] —When any appeal
shall be dismissed, or when judgment shall be entered in the district court against
the appellant, the surety in the undertaking shall be liable to the appellee for the
whole amount of the debt, costs, and damages, recovered against the appellant.
Sec. 1015. [Appeal quashed—Proceedings.]—When an appeal taken
to the district court shall there be quashed, by reason of irregularity in taking or
consummating the same, the cause for quashing shall be stated in the order of the
court, and a transcript of such order shall be lodged with such justice, who shall
thereupon proceed to issue execution, in the same manner as if no appeal had
been taken.
Sec. 1016. [Undertaking—Further security.] —In proceeding on ap
peal when the surety in the undertaking shall be insumcient or such undertaking
may be insumcient in form or amount, it shall be lawful for the court, on motion,
to order a change or renewal of such undertaking, and direct the same to be cer
tified to the justice from whose judgment the appeal was taken, or that it be
recorded in said court.
Sec. 1017. [Appeal—Not allowed—When.]—Appeals in the following
cases shall not be allowed : First. On judgments rendered on confession. Second.
In jury trials, where neither party claims in his bill of particulars a sum exceeding
twenty dollars. Third. In trials of the right of property, under the statutes,
either levied upon by execution or attached. [Amended 1885, chap. 99.]
Sec. 1018. [Expiration of term of justice.]—When the term of office
of a justice shall expire between the date of the judgment and the time limited
Jor appeal, such justice may take the undertaking for appeal at any time before
he has delivered the docket to his successor, and give the appealing party a tran
script. After the delivery of the docket, the undertaking snail be given to his
successor, and it shall be his duty to give the transcript, and do and perform all
things required of his predecessor.
CHAPTER X. —ACTIONS FOB THE FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETENTION, OR FORCIBLE DETEN
TION ONLY, OF PROPERTY.
Sec. 1019. [Jurisdiction.]—Any justice, within his proper county, shall
have power to inquire, in the manner hereinafter directed, as well against those
who make unlawful and forcible entry into lands and tenements, and detain the
same, as against those, who, having a lawful and peaceable entry into lands or
tenements, unlawfully and by force hold the same ; and if it be found, upon such
inquiry, that an unlawful and forcible entry has been made, and that the same
lands or tenements are held by force, or that the same, after a lawful entry, are
held unlawfully, then said justice shall cause the party complaining to have resti
tution thereof.
Sec. 1020. [Against whom.] —Proceedings under this article may be had
in all cases against tenants holding over their terms ; in sales of real estate on
executions, orders or other judicial process, when the judgment debtor was in
possession at the time of the rendition of judgment or decree, by virtue of which
such sale was made ; in sales by executors, administrators or guardians, and on
partition, where any of the parties to the partition were in possession at the com
mencement of the suit, after such sale so made on execution or otherwise, shall
have been examined by the proper court, and the same by such court adjudged
legal ; and in cases where the defendant is a settler or occupier of lands or tene-
merits, without color of title, and to which the complainant has the right of pos
session. This section shall not be construed as limiting the provisions of section
one thousand one hundred and nineteen.
Sec. 1021. [Tenant holding over—Action not a bar.] —A tenant shall
be deemed to be holding over his term whenever he has failed, neglected or refused
to pay the rent, or any part thereof, when the same was due, and judgments, either
before the justice or in the district court, under this chapter, shall not be a bar to
any after action brought by either party. [Amended 1875, 45. Took effect Feb.
25, 1875.]
Sec. 1022. [Notice—Service.] —It shall be the duty of the party desiring
to commence an action under this chapter, to notify the adverse party to leave
the premises for the possession of which the action is about to be brought, which
notice Bhall be served at least three days before commencing the action, by leav
ing a written copy with the defendant, or at his usual place of abode, if he can
not be found.
Sec. 1028. [Complaint—Contents.] —The summons shall not issue until
the plaintiff shall have filed his complaint in writing with the justice, which shall
particularly describe the premises so entered upon or detained, and shall set forth
either an unlawful and forcible entry and detention, or an unlawful and forcible
detention after a peaceable or lawful "entry of the described premises. The com
plaint shall be copied into and made a part of the record.
Sec. 1024. [Summons—Service.] —The summons shall be issued and di
rected, shall state the cause of the complaint, the time and place of trial, and shall
be served and returned as in other cases. Such service shall be three days before
the day of trial appointed by the justice.
Sec. 1025. [Defendant — Failure to appear.] —If the defendant does
not appear in accordance with the requisitions of the summons, and it shall have
been properly served, the justice shall try the cause as though he was present.
Sec. 1026. [Continuance — Undertaking.] —No continuance shall be
granted for a longer period than eight days, unless the defendant applying therefor
shall give an undertaking to the adverse party, with good and sufficient surety to
be approved by the justice, conditioned for the payment of the rent that may ac
crue, if judgment be rendered against the defendant.
Sec. 1027. [Trial—By justice.] —If the suit be not continued, place of trial
changed, or neither party demand a jury, upon the return day of the sum
mons, the justice shall try the cause ; and if, after hearing the evidence, he shall
conclude that the complaint is not true, he shall enter judgment against the
plaintiff for costs ; if he find the complaint true, he shall render a general judgment
against the defendant and in favor of the plaintiff, for restitution of the premises
and costs of suit ; if. he find the complaint true in part, he shall render a judg
ment for the restitution of such part only, and the costs shall be taxed as the
justice shall deem just and equitable.
Sec. 1028. [Same—By Jury.] —If a jury be demanded by either party, the
proceedings until the impaneling thereof, shall be in all respects as in other cases.
The jury shall be sworn or affirmed, to well and truly try and determine whether
the complaint of (naming the plaintiff), about to be laid before them is true ac
cording to the evidence.' If the jury shall find the complaint true, they shall ren
der a general verdict of guilty against the defendant ; if not true, then a general
verdict of not guilty ; if true in part, then a verdict setting forth the facts they
find true. •
Sec. 1029. [Judgment on verdict.] —The justice shall enter the verdict
upon his docket, and shall render such judgment in the action as if the facts au
thorizing the finding of such verdict had been found to be true by himself.
Sec. 1030. [Exceptions.] — Exceptions to the opinion of the justice, in
cases under this chapter upon questions of law and evidence may be taken by
either party, whether tried by a jury or otherwise ; or either party may appeal
from the judgment rendered by such justice by giving bond, with two responsible
sureties to be approved by the justice, conditioned : If the plaintiff appeals to
satisfy the final judgment and costs ; if the defendant appeals to satisfy the final
Judgment and costs, and pay a reasonable rent for the premises during the time
le wrongfully withholds the same. [Amended 1883, chap. LXXXII.J
Sec. 1031. [Writ of execution.] —Where a judgment of restitution shall
be entered by a justice, he shall, at the request of the plaintiff, his agent or attor
ney, issue a writ of execution thereon, which shall be in the following form, as near
as practicable : i
^The State of Nebraska, ) na i
County. 1 BS-
To any Constable or Sheriff of County :
Whebeas, In a certain action for the forcible entry and detention (or the forcible
detention, as the case may be,) of the following described premises, to wit: ,
lately tried before me, wherein was plaintiff, and — was defendant,
judgment was rendered on the day of , a. d. , that the plaintiff have res-!
titution of said premises ; and also that he recover costs in the sum of . You]
therefore are hereby commanded to cause the defendant to be forthwith removed from
said premises, and the said plaintiff to have restitution of the same ; also that you levy
of the goods and chattels of the said defendant, and make the costs aforesaid, and all
accruing costs ; and of this writ make legal service and due return.
Witness my hand, this — day of ——, a. d. .
, Justice of the Peace.
[Const, sec. 24, Art. VI.]
Sec. 1032. [Same—Execution of writ.]— The officer shall, within ten
days after receiving the writ, execute the same by restoring the plaintiff to the pos
session of the premises, and shall levy and collect the costs, and make return as
upon other executions. If the officer shall receive a notice from the justice that
the proceedings have been stayed by an allowance *of a writ of error, he shall im
mediately delay all further proceedings, upon the execution ; and if the premises
have been restored to the plaintiff, he shall immediately place the defendant in the
possession thereof, and return the writ, with his proceedings and costs taxed
thereon.
CHAPTER XI. —REPLEVIN.
SEC. 1038. [Jurisdiction.]—The plaintiff may recover possession of spe
cific personal property of less value than two hundred dollars, before a justice of
the peace as herein provided. [Amended Feb. 28. Took effect June 1, 1881.]
Sec. 1034. [Affidavit.] —An action for this purpose shall not be brought
until there is filed in the office of the justice, an affidavit of the plaintiff, his
agent, or attorney, showing: First. A description of the property claimed.
Second. That the plaintiff is the owner thereof, or has a special ownership there
in, stating the facts in relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the immediate
possession of the property. Third. That the property is wrongfully detained by
the defendant. Fourth. That it was not taken in execution- on any order or judg
ment against Baid plaintiff, or for the payment of any tax, fine, or amercement
assessed against him, or by virtue of an order of delivery issued under this chap
ter, or any other mesne or final process issued against said plaintiff.
SEC. 1035. [Summons—Order.] —Upon such affidavit being made, and
filed with the justice, he shall issue a summons as in other cases, hut in addi
tion commanding the officer immediately to seize and take into custody, wher
ever they may be found in the county, the goods and chattels mentioned in the
affidavit, and deliver the same to the plaintiff.
SEC. 1086. [Same—Execution of writ.]—The constable or sheriff shall
execute the writ by taking the property therein mentioned ; he shall also deliver
a copy of the summons to the person charged with the unlawful detention of
property, or leave such copy at his usual place of residence ; and shall make return
of the time and manner of service, the appraisment of property, and any under
taking taken by him.
_ • Sec 1037. [Undertaking.] —The officer shall not deliver to the plaintiff,
his agent, or attorney, the property so taken, until there has been executed by
one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, a written undertaking to the de
fendant, in at least double the value of the property taken, but in no case less
than fifty dollars, to the effect that the plaintiff shall duly prosecute the action
and pay all costs and damages 'which may be awarded against him.
SEC. 1038. [Same—Appraisement.]— For the purpose of fixing the
amount of the undertaking, the value of the property taken snail be ascertained
by the oath of two responsible persons, whom the officer shall swear truly to as
sess the value thereof.
Seo. 1039. [Same — Transfer to district conrt.]—Whenever the ap
praised value of the property so taken shall exceed two hundred dollars, the jus
tice shall certify the proceedings upon the said writ to the district court of his
county, and thereupon shall file the original papers, together with a certified
transcript of his docket entries, in the clerk's office of the said court ; the case
there to be for trial at the first term of said court on the original papers without
further pleadings, except by the leave of the court granted on sufficient showing.
[1881, chap. 80 . Amended 1887, chap. 98. Took effect July 1, 1887.]
Seo. 1040. [Undertaking—Failure to give.]—If the undertaking re
quired by section one thousand and thirty-seven, be not given within twenty-four
hours from the taking of the property under said order, the officer shall return
the property to the defendant. And if the officer deliver any property so taken,
to the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, or keep the same from the defendant with
out taking such security within the time aforesaid, or if he take insufficient se
curity, he shall be liable to the defendant in damages.
Beo. 1041. [Trial—When property delivered to plaintiff.]—If the
property has been delivered to the plaintiff, and judgment be rendered against
him, or if he otherwise fail to prosecute his action to final judgment, the justice
shall, on application of the defendant, or his attorney, impanel a jury to inquire
into the right of property and right of possession of the defendant to the property
taken. If the jury shall be satisfied that the said property was the property of
the defendant at the commencement of the action, or if they Bhall find that the
defendant was entitled only to the possession of the same, at such time, then, in
either case they shall assess such damages for the defendant as are right and
{»roper, for which, with costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for the de-
endant. And in all cases where the property has been delivered to the plaintiff,
unless the jury shall find for the defendant, they shall also find whether .he
defendant had the right of property, or the right of possession only, at the com
mencement of the suit ; and if they find eithe- in his favor, they shall assess such
damages as they think right and proper for the defendant, for which, with costs
of suit, the court shall render judgment for the defendant.
Sec. 1042. [Damages for detention.] —In all cases, when the property
has been delivered to the plaintiff, where the jury shall find for the plaintiff, on
trial, or on inquiry of damages, they shall assess adequate damages to the plaintiff
for the illegal detention of the property, for which, with costs of suit, the justice
Bhall render judgment against the defendant.
Sec. 1043. [Trial when property not delivered.] —When the property
claimed has not been taken, or has been returned to the defendant, for want of
the undertaking required by section one thousand and thirty-nine, the action may
proceed as one ior damages only, and the plaintiff shall be entitled to such dam
ages as are right and proper ; but if the property be returned for want of the
undertaking required by said section, the plaintiff 6hall pay all costs made by
taking the same.
Sec. 1044. [Execution of writ—Power of officer.]—The officer, in
executing the writ, may break open any building or enclosure in which the prop
erty claimed, or any part thereof, is concealed ; but not until he has been refused
an entrance into said building or enclosure, and the delivery of the property, after
having demanded the same.
Sec. 1045. [Suit on undertaking.] —No suit shall be instituted on the
undertaking given under section one thousand and thirty-seven, before an execu
tion, issued on a judgment in favor of the defendant in the action, shall have
been returned that sufficient property whereon to levy and make the amount of
such judgment cannot be found in the county.
Sec. 1046. [Writ issued without undertaking- -Penalty.]—If any
justice shall issue a writ to replevin property, as is provided by this chapter, with
out the affidavit being made and filed in his office as is provided in section one
thousand and thirty-four, the same shall be set aside at his costs, and he shall be
liable in damages to the party injured.
CHAPTEB XII. —EXECUTIONS.
SEC. 1047. [When issued.] —Execution for the enforcement of a judgment
before a justice of the peace (except where it has been taken to the district court
on error or appeal, or docketed therein, or during the time it may be stayed, as
provided by this title), may issue by the justice before whom the judgment was
rendered, or by his successor in office, on the application of the party entitled
thereto, at any time within five years of entry of the judgment, or the date of the
last execution issued thereon.
Sec. 1048. [Same—Without demand.]—It shall be the duty of the jus
tice, if the case be not appealed, taken up on error, docketed in the district court
or bail has not been given for tbe stay of execution, at the expiration of ten days
from the entry of the judgment, to issue execution, without a demand, and proceed
to collect the judgment, unless otherwise directed by the judgment creditor.
Sec. 1049. [Stay.] —Any person against whom judgment may be rendered under
the provisions of this title, except as hereinafter excepted, may have stayof execution
for the several periods hereinafter mentioned, by entering into an undertaking
with the adverse party, within ten days after the rendition of such judgment, with
good and sufficient surety, resident of the county, as the justice shall approve,
conditioned for the payment of the amount of such judgment, interest and costs,
and costs that may accrue ; which undertaking shall be entered on the docket of
the justice, and be signed by the surety.
Sec. 1050. [Same—For what time.] —The * stay "of "executions hereby
authorized sball be graduated as follows, namely: First. On any judgment -for
$10.00 and under, tbe stay shall be for sixty days. Second. On any judgment
exceeding $10.00, and under $50.00, tbe stay shall be for ninety days. Third.
On any judgment exceeding $50.00 and under $100.00, the stay shall be for six
months. Fourth. On any judgment exceeding $100.00 and not exceeding $200.00,
the stay shall be for nine months. Fifth. Where judgment is rendered against a
surety and he takes a stay thereon, and he obtains a judgment against the prin
cipal, stay of execution must be allowed on the judgment against the principal
only so long that the stay will expire one month before that allowed to the surety
on the judgment against him. [Amended 1885, chap, 100.]
Sec. 1051. [Same—When not allowed.]—No stayof execution on judg
ments rendered in the following cases shall be allowed : First. On judgments ren
dered against justices of the peace, for refusing to pay over money by them collected
or received in their official capacity. Second. On any judgment rendered against an
officer for failing to make return, making a false return or refusing to pay over
money collected in his official capacity. Third. On judgments against bad for the
stay of execution. Fourth. Where judgment is rendered in favor of bail, who have
been compelled by judgment to pay over money on account of their principal. Fifth.
On judgments obtained by constables or sheriffs, on undertakings executed to
them for the delivery of property.
Sec. 1052. [Same—Writ recalled.]—If the execution issued before the
undertaking for stay, or that required in case of appeal, be given, and such un
dertaking be given afterwards and within the time allowed, the justice shall recall
the execution.
Sec. 1053. [Bail leaving county—Proceedings.]—Where any person
who has become bail for stay of execution shall remove out of the county Defore
the expiration of such stay, the justice shall, on demand, issue execution against
the goods and chattels of the defendant, or other party against whom the original
judgment was rendered, to be proceeded with as in other cases.
Sec. 1054. [Execution notwithstanding stay.] —When any surety for
the stay of execution shall become apprehensive that, by delayingthe execution un
til the expiration of the full time of such stay, he or she may be compelled to pay the
i'udgment, it shall be lawful for such surety to make and file affidavit of that fact
lefore the justice on whose docket the judgment is entered ; whereupon such jus
tice shall issue execution against the judgment debtor, which shall he proceeded
in as in other cases ; Provided, Such bail shall not thereby be discharged from li
ability, but may be proceeded against after the expiration of the term of stay, in
the same manner as if execution had not issued as aforesaid.
Sec. 1055. [Same—Further security.]—If the judgment debtor shall,
within ten days after levying* Buch execution, enter into a further undertaking for
the stay of execution, during so much of the first stay as remains then unexpired,
and shall pay costs of the execution issued against him, as aforesaid, it shall be
the duty of the justice to take such further undertaking, and recall the execution ;
and the person who last became surety shall first be proceeded against, until it
shall appear by the return of the officer that he or she has no goods whereon to
levy, before proceedings shall be instituted on the undertaking first given.
Sec. 1056. [Judgment against surety—Subrogation.] —When any
I'udgment shall be obtained against any person who Bhall nave entered himself
>ail on the docket of any justice of the peace, agreeably to the provisions of this title, the original judgment shall remain good and valid in law, for the use of such
bail, who, at any time thereafter may sue out execution on such judgment, against
the goods and chattels of the defendant, for the use of such bail, which shall be
so endorsed by the justice ; and such bail shall also be entitled to a transcript of
such judgment, for his own use, which shall have the same force and effect as
transcripts in other cases.
Sec. 1057. [Additional security.] —At any time before the stay shall ex
pire, if the justice taking the surety, or his successor in office, shall become satis
fied that the surety is insufficient, it shall be his duty to cause written notice
thereof to be given to the defendant, or if he be absent, that the same be left at
his residence, requiring him to give additional surety, on or by the third day after
the giving of such notice ; buch facts shall be entered on the docket, and he shall
immediately issue execution against the defendant for the collection of the judg
ment. If within ten days after the issuing of such execution, surety to the satis
faction of the justice be given, the execution shall be recalled and stayed until the
expiration of the original stay.
Sec. 1058. [Writ—Contents.] —The execution must be directed to a con
stable or sheriff of the county, and subscribed by the justice by whom the judg
ment was rendered, or by his successor in office, and must bear date the day of
its delivery to the officer to be executed. It must intelligibly refer to the judg
ment, by stating the names of the parties, and the name of the justice before
whom, and of the county where and the time when, it was rendered, the amount
of the judgment, and, if less than the whole is due, the true amount due thereon.
It must require the officer substantially as follows : First. If it be a case where
the defendant cannot be arrested, it must direct the officer to collect the amount
of the judgment out of the personal property of the debtor, and pay the same to
the party entitled thereto. Second. If it be a case where any of the judgment
debtors are certified on the docket as surety, it shall command that the money be
made of the personal property of the principal debtor, and for want thereof, of
the personal property of the surety. In such cases the personal property of the
principal, subject to execution within the jurisdiction, shall be exhausted, before
any property of the bail shall be taken in execution. Third. If it be a case where
the defendant may be arrested, in addition to the foregoing it must direct the offi
cer, if sufficient property of the defendant subject to the execution cannot be
found to satisfy the judgment, that he arrest the debtor and commit him to the
jail of the county until he pay the judgment, or be discharged according to law,
unless the execution be accompanied by an order of arrest, as provided in sec
tions nine hundred and twenty-three, and nine hundred and twenty-four.
Fourth. It must m all cases direct the officer to make return of the execution and
the certificate thereon, showing the manner in which he has executed the same,
in thirty days from the time of his receipt thereof.
Sec. 1059. [Same—Against joint debtors—Arrest of debtor.]—
Upon an execution on a judgment against joint debtors, upon one or more of
whom the summons was not served, the execution must contain a direction to
collect the amount out of the joint property of all the defendants, or the separate
property of the persons upon whom the summons was served, to be specified by
name. If such judgment be also such that the defendants are subject to
arreBt thereon, the justice must further specify the names of those defendants
served with the summons, who may be arrested for want of property.
Bec. 1060. [Arrest—Liability of officer.]—The officer may, at his
peril, omit to arrest a debtor, or after arrest suffer him to go at large before the
return day, subject only for his liability for an escape, or for omitting to arrest, if
he fail to have either the money or the person of the debtor in custody at the expi
ration of thirty days.
Sec. 1061. [Discharge of prisoner by officer.]—It shall be lawful for
the sheriff or jailer receiving any person imprisoned on execution issued in any
civil proceeding, at any time when there is no money in his hands to pay for the
sustenance of such prisoner, to discharge him from prison. The jailer may,
however, detain such prisoner, the adverse party being liable for such sustenance.
Sec. 1062. [Imprisonment—Duration.]—The debtor committed as
herein provided, may be held in prison ten days, and, if he be a person without a
family lor which he provides, one day in addition for every dollar over ten, due on
the execution ; or, if he has a family for which he provides, one day in addition
for every two dollars over twenty, due on the execution.
Sec. 1063. [Same--Discharge on affidavit.]—The affidavit of an im
prisoned debtor, that he has a family for which he provides, specifying by name
one or more persons, members of such family, and the place of their residence, is
sufficient evidence thereof to authorize his discharge by the jailer.
" Sec. 1064. [Neglect of officer—Liability.]—The officer is liable to the
5>arty in whose favor an execution issued to him for the amount thereof, in the
ollowing cases : First. Where he suffers thirty days to elapse without making a
true return thereof to the justice, and paying to him, or to the party entitled, the
money collected thereon by him. Second. Where he wilfully and carelessly omits
to levy on property within thirty days, or if the defendant be liable to be impris
oned, then to arrest and commit him to the jail of the countywithin thirty days.
Sec. 1065. [Action on undertaking for stay.] —When an execution
shall be returned unsatisfied for the want of goods and chattels, the justice shall,
unless otherwise directed by the party for whom the execution issued, commsnce
an action on the undertaking for the stay of execution, and, so soon as judgment
is obtained thereon, shall issue execution, and if such execution be returned
nnsatisfied in whole or in part, for want of goods and chattels of the bail whereon
to levy, then the plaintiff may demand and have execution on the original judg
ment for the amount remaining due.
Sec. 1066. [Same—Death of defendant.]—Where bail is given for the
stay of execution, and the defendant against whom the judgment was rendered
shall die before the same is satisfied, the creditor may proceed against the surety
in the undertaking in like manner as if execution had been issued against the de
fendant, and returned not satisfied for want of goods and chattels whereon to levy.
SALE ON EXECUTION.
Sec. 1067. [Sale of property—Advertisement—When held.]—All
property taken in execution unaer the provisions of this title, shall be advertised
for sale at four of the most public places within the precinct where such property
was seized, at least ten days previous to the time appointed for such sale, rfhich
shall be held within the hours of ten o'clock a. m., and four o'clock p. m., a*t the
house, or on the premises, where such property was taken, or at one of the most
public places within the precinct. «
Sec. 1068. [Same—Justice or officer purchasers—Penalty.]—It
shall not be lawful for any justice of the peace who issued the execution, nor for
the officer holding the execution, to purchase, either directly or indirectly, any
property sold on Buoh execution. And any justice or officer who shall offend
against the provisions of this section, shall forfeit and pay, for every such offense,
any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars nor less than five dollars, to be recov
ered by civil action, m the name of the state of Nebraska, before any court
having jurisdiction thereof, for the use of the county where such offense was com
mitted ; and shall, moreover, be liable to the action of the party injured thereby.
Sec. 1069. [Keeping stock—Compensation.] —When any cattle, or
other live stock, shall be taken in execution, it shall be the duty of the justice
who issued the execution, or other justice charged with the duty of collecting the
judgment whereon such execution issued, to allow the officer for keeping the same,
■a reasonable compensation, to be taxed and collected as other costs in the suit.
Sec. 1070. [Inventory of property levied on.]—When a constable or
sheriff shall levy on and sell any goods and chattels, he shall make out and annex
to his return to the execution in virtue of which such sale was made, a true in
ventory of all such property, and of each article thereof, and the price at which the
same was sold.
Sec. 1071. [Schedule of goods not sold—Further sale.]—Where a
constable or sheriff shall have levied on any goods and chattels which remain un
sold for want of bidders or other just cause, it shall be his duty to return, with
the execution, a schedule of all such goods and chattels. And the justice shall,
unless otherwise directed by the party for whom such execution issued, or his
agent, immediately thereafter issue an order, thereby commanding any officer to
whom the same may be directed or delivered, to expose such property for sale ;
which sale, and the proceedings thereon, shall be the same as if such property
had been sold on the original execution.
SEC. 1072. [Property released on bail.] —Any officer having levied on
goods and chattels, of which he permits the party against whom the execution
issued to retain the possession, is hereby authorized to take such security for his
own indemnity as he may require that such property shall be delivered at the
time and place appointed for the sale thereof.
Sec. 1078. [Rights of landlord and tenant—Growing crops.] —In
all cases where any lands may have been let, reserving rent in kind, and when
the crops or emblements growing or grown thereon shall be levied on or attached,
by virtue of any execution, attachment, or any other process against the landlord
or tenant, the interest of such landlord or tenant, against whom such process did
not issue, shall not be affected thereby.
Seo. 1074. [Additional writs—When issued.]—In cases where the
constable or sheriff shall make it appear to the satisfaction of the justice that he
has been deprived of an opportunity of levying an execution within the time pre
scribed by this chapter, or otherwise prevented from making the whole of the
money therein required to be made, and shall make return to the justice who
issued the same, to that effect, such justice is hereby authorized and required to
issue farther process of execution, for the amount of balance remaining unsatis
fied ; which shall be served and returned, in all respects, as other executions ars
under this chapter.
CHAPTER XIIJ. —CONSTABLES AND SHERIFFS.
Sec. 1075. [Ministerial officers—Jurisdiction.]—All constables and
sheriffs shall be ministerial officers in justices' courts, in their respective counties,
in civil and criminal cases, and civil and criminal process may be executed by
them throughout the county.
Seo. 1076. [Duties.] —It shall be the duty of every constable to serve and
execute all warrants, writs, preceptB, executions and other process to him directed
and delivered, and in all respects whatever to do and perform all things pertaining
to the office of constable. And sheriffs shall have all the powers and be subject
to all the liabilities of constables in the service and return of all processes issued by
justices of the peace in their respective counties.
Seo. 1077. [Posse comitatus—Return of process.]—In discharging
their duties, constables may call to their aid the power of the county, or such as
sistance as may be necessary. It shall be the duty of every constable or sheriff
to make due return of all process to him directed and delivered, at the proper
office and on the proper return day thereof ; or if the judgment be docketed in the
district court, appealed or stayed, upon which he has an execution, on notice
thereof to return the execution, stating thereon such fact.
Seo. 1078. [Receipt of process—Endorsement.]—It shall be the duty
of every constable or sheriff, on the receipt of any writ or other process (subpoenas
excepted), to note thereon the time of receiving the same ; he shall also state in
his return on the same, the time and manner of executing it.
Sec. 1079. [Return of "not found.''] —No officer shall make a return on
any process of " not found," as to any defendant, unless he shall have been once, at
least, to the usual place of residence of the defendant, if such defendant have any
in the county.
Seo. 1080. [Criminal arrests—Keepers of peace.]—It shall be the
duty of every constable and sheriff to apprenend, on view or warrant, and bring
to justice all felons and disturbers and violators of the criminal laws of this state,
to suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful assemblies, which may come to hia
knowledge, and, generally, to keep the peace in his proper county.
Sec. 1081. [Constables—Authority—Powers.] —In serving all process,
either civil or criminal, and in doing his duties generally, when not otherwise re
stricted by law, the authority of a constable shall extend throughout the whole
county in which he may be appointed ; and in executing and servingprocess issued
by a justice of the peace, he shall have and exercise the same authority and
powers over goods and chattels and the persons of parties as is granted by law toa
sheriff, under like process issued from courts of record.
Sec. 1082. [Arrest—Copy of mittimus to jailer—Return.]—When
it shall become the duty of the officer to take the body of any person to the jail
of the county, he shall deliver to the sheriff or jailer a certified copy of the exe
cution, commitment or other process, whereby he holds such person in custody,
and return the original to the justice who issued the same ; which copy shall be
sufficient authority to the sheriff or jailer to keep the prisoner in jail, until dis
charged by due couse of law.
Sec. 1083. [Moneys received—Payment.] —Constables and sheriffs shall
pay over to the party entitled thereto, all money received by them in their offi
cial capacity, if demand be made by such party, his agent or attorney, at any
time before he returns the writ upon which he has received it ; if not paid over
by that time, he shall pay the same to the justice when he returns the writ.
Seo. 1084. [False return—Penalty.]—Constables and .sheriffs shall be
liable to twenty per cent, penalty upon the amount of damages for which judg
ment may be entered against them, for failing to make return, making false re
turn, or failing to pay over money by them collected or received in their official
capacity, and such judgment must include, in addition to the damages and costs,
the penalty herein provided.
CHAPTER XIV. —GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 1085. [Application of code.]—The provisions of this code, which
are in their nature applicable, and in respect to which no special provision ii
made by statute, shall apply to proceedings before justices of the peace.
Sec. 1086. [Justice's docket—Contents.] —Every justice must keep a.
book, denominated a docket, in which must be entered by him : First. The title
of every action in which the writ is served, or where the parties voluntarily ap
pear. Second. The date of the writ, the time of its return, and if «n order to
arrest the defendant or attach property was made, such fact must be stated, to
gether with the affidavit upon which such order was made. Third. The filing of
the bill of particulars of either party, and the nature thereof, and when not of too
great length, the same shall be entered at length on the docket. Fourth. Which
of the parties, if either of them, appear at the trial. Fifth. Every adjournment,
Btating on whose application, whether on oath or consent, and to what time.
Sixth. When trial by jury is demanded, the demand must be stated, and by
whom made, the names of the jurors selected, and the time appointed for the
trial. Seventh. The names of the jurors who appear and of those sworn, the
names of all witnesses sworn and at whose request. Eighth. The exceptions to
the ruling of the justice, on questions of law, taken by either party. Ninth. The
verdict of the jury, and when received ; if the jury disagree and are discharged,
that fact must be stated. Tenth. The judgment of the justice, specifying the
items of costs included, and the time when rendered. Eleventh. The issuing of
execution and orders to Bell, when issued and to whom, the renewals thereof, if
any, and when made, the return and when made, and a statement of any money
paid to the justice, and by whom. Twelfth. The giving of a transcript to be filed
111 the clerks office, and when given. Thirteenth. If appeal be taken, the under
taking and the time of entering into the same, and by which party taken.
Fourteenth. The undertaking for stay of execution, and the time of giving the
same. Fifteenth. The satisfaction of the judgment, and the time of satisfying
the same.
Sec. 1087. [Same—Entries, when made—Evidence.] —The several
particulars in the last section specified, must be entered under the title of the
action to which they relate, and at the time when they occurred, except that bills
of exceptions in regard to the rulings on questions of law or evidenee, need not be
entered until after the judgment, unless required by the justice or one of the par
ties ; such entries in a justice's docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the
justice or his successor in office, shall be evidence to prove the facts stated
therein.
Sec. 1088. [Same—Index—Papers how kept.] —A justice must keep
an alphabetical index to his docket, in which must be entered the names of the
parties to each judgment, with reference to the page of the entry ; the names of
the plaintiffs must be entered in the index in the alphabetical order of the first
letter of the family names ; he shall number the cases progressively upon his
docket, and shall correspondingly number the papers in each case ; he shall keep
the entire papers in each action together, and in packages of a proper and con
venient size, and in the order in which the cases are numbered on his docket.
Sec. 1089. [Same—Delivery to successor.] —It is the duty of every
justice, upon the expiration of his term of office, to deposit with his successor, his
official docket, as well his own as those of his predecessor which may be in his
custody, together with all files and papers, laws and statutes, pertaining to his
office, there to be kept as public records and property. If there be no successor
elected and qualified, or if the office become vacant by death, removal from the
county, or otherwise, before his successor is elected and qualified, the docket and
papers in the possession of such justice must be deposited with the nearest jus
tice in the county, there to be kept until a successor be chosen and qualified, then
to be delivered over to such successor on request.
Sec. 1090. [Same—Receipt.] —A justice receiving by succession or on
deposit, any such docket, papers, and laws, shall, if requested, give a receipt
therefor to the person from whom he receives the sa.ne.
Sec. 1091. [Same—Authority of successor.] —The justice with whom
the docket of another may be deposited, either during vacancy or as a successor,
is hereby authorized, while having such docket legally in his possession, to issue
execution on any judgment there entered and unsatisfied, and not docketed in the
district court, in the same manner and with the same effect as the justice by whom
the judgment was rendered might have done ; to take bail in appeals or for stay ef
■execution, to issue certified transcripts of judgments on such docket, and proceed
in all cases in like manner as if the same had been originally had or instituted be
fore him.
Sec. 1092. [Disability of justice—Proceedings.]—In case of sickness
or other disability, or necessary absence of a justice, at the time appointed for
trial, another justice of the same county may, at his request, attend in hia behalf,
and shall thereupon become vested with the powers, for the time being, of the jus
tice before whom the summons was returnable. In that case the proper entry of
ihe proceeding before the attending justice, subscribed by him, must be made in
the docket of the justice, before whom the writ was returnable. If the case be
adjourned, the justice before whom the summons was returnable must resume
jurisdiction.
Sec. 1098. [Papers containing blanks void.]—The summons, execu
tion and every other paper made or issued by a justice, must be filled up without
a blank to be filled by another ; otherwise it is void.
Sec. 1094. [Deputation to serve process.]—A justice, at the request
of a party, and on being satisfied that it is expedient, may specially depute any
discreet person of suitable age, and not interested in the action, to serve a sum
mons or execution with or without an order to arrest the defendants or to attach
property. Such deputation must be in writing on the process.
Sec. 1095. [Same—Fees.] — The person so deputed has the authority of a
constable, in relation to the service, execution, and return of such process, and is
subject to the same obligation, but there can be no fee for his services taxed in
the bill of costs.
Sec. 1096. [Contempts punishable.] —A justice may punish as for con
tempt, persons guilty of the following acts, and no others : First. Disorderly, con
temptuous, or insolent behavior toward the justice, tending to interrrupt the due
course of the trial, or other judicial proceedings before him. Second. A breach
of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the
due course of a trial ot other judicial proceeding. Third. Wilful resistance in the
presence of the justice, to the execution of a lawful order or process made or
issued by him.
Sec. 1097. [Same—Arrest—Punishment.]—A warrant of arrest may be
issued by such justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested and brought
before the justice, when an opportunity to be heard in his defense or excuse must
be given. The justice may thereupon discharge him or may convict him for the
offense and adjudge a punishment by fine or imprisonment, or both ; such fine not
to exceed twenty dollars, and such imprisonment ten days.
Sec. 1098. [Same—Entry of judgment—Warrant.]—The conviction,
specifying particularly the offense and the judgment thereon, must be entered in
his docket ; a warrant of commitment to the jail of the county, until the fine be
paid, or for the term of imprisonment, may then be issued ; such warrant must
■contain a transcript of the entry in the docket, and the same must be executed
by any constable or sheriff to whom it may be given, and by the jailer of the
county.
Sec. 1099. [Security for costs—Non-resident.] —When a person in
tending to bring an action before a justice of the peace, is a non-resident of the
county in which he intends to commence such action, the justice may, previous to his
issuing process, require such person to give security for costs of suit ; which may
be done by depositing a sum of money, deemed by the justice to be sufficient to
discharge the costs that may accrue in the action, or by giving an undertaking,
with security approved by the justice, payable to the adverse party, for the pay
ment of all costs that may accrue in the action. If any plaintiff or plaintiffs,
after commencing an action before a justice in the county in which he or they
reside, afterwards remove out of the county, the justice may require such plaintiff
or plaintiffs to deposit a sum of money, equal to the costs that nave accrued, and
that probably will accrue, or require, in place thereof, that such party give suffic
ient security for all costs that have accrued, or which may accrue in the action,
and in default to do either, shall enter a nonsuit against the plaintiff or plaintiffs.
Sec. 1100. [Evidence of debt—Filing.]—In all actions instituted before
a justice of the peace, founded upon any bond, bill, promissory note, or other in
strument of writing, for the payment of a sum of money certain, of which the
whole amount of money promised therein is due, it shall be the duty of the plain
tiff, his agent or attorney, to file said bond, bill, promissory note, or other written
evidence of indebtedness, upon which said suit is brought, with such justice of the
peace ; and if upon the trial, judgment shall be entered thereon, in favor of the
plaintiff, such bond, bill, promissory note.or other instrument in writing, shall be
retained by the justice so rendering judgment, who shall endorse thereon the sum
for which he shall have entered judgment (provided the same shall in no wise ex
ceed one hundred dollars), and shall subscribe his name thereto. And upon pay
ment, or tender of the amount of Biich payment, together with the costs accruing
thereon, or securing the payment of the same by putting in bail for the stay of
execution, it shall not be lawful for the plaintiff to institute any other suit or suits
upon such bond, bill, promissory note, or other instrument of writing, for the re
covery of any other sum or sums, the payment of which is secured by the same
bond, bill, promissory note, or other written evidence of indebtedness } Provided,
That when an appeal shall be taken from the judgment of such justice, it shall be
his duty to transmit any bond, bill, promissory note, or other written evidence
produced before him on trial, to the clerk of the district court, to which such cause
shall have been appealed, or or before the second day of the term of the court
next after taking such appeal ; Provided, also, That nothing herein contained
shall be construed to lessen or in anywise affect the right which any creditors
now have to demand from any justice of the peace, any joint and several obliga
tion, for the purpose of prosecuting any party to said obligation, other than the
party against whom judgment may have been rendered.
Sec. 1100 a. [Proof of written instrument.]—That in all civil actions
before justices of the peace, in which the defendant has been served with sum
mons in this state, it shall not be necessary to prove the execution of any bond,
promissory note, bill of exchange, or other written instrument, or any indorsement
thereon, upon which the action is brought, or set-off or counter-claim is based,
unless the party sought to be charged as the maker, acceptor, or indorser, of suchbond,
promissory note, or bill of exchange, or other written instrument, shall
make and file with the justice of the peace, Defore whom the suit is pending, an
affidavit that such instrument was not made, given, subscribed, accepted, or in
dorsed by him. [G. S. § 1, 717.]
Sec. 1101. [Justice purchasing judgment—Penalty.]—It shall not
be lawful for any justice or the peace to purchase any judgment upon a*ny docket
in his possession ; and for so doing, and for every such offense, such justice shall
forfeit and pay a sum not more than fifty dollars, nor lesB than ten dollars, to be
recovered by an action before any court having jurisdiction thereof, and when
collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the county where such offense was
committed.
Sec. 1102. [Application of code to pending suits.]—The provisions
of this title do not apply to proceedings in actions or suits pending when it takes
effect. They shall be conducted to final judgment and determination in all re
spects as if it had not been adopted.
Sec. 1108. [Jurisdiction.] —Justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction in
all cases where the sum in question does not exceed two hundred dollars except
in cases limited in this title. [Amended Feb. 28. Took effect June 1, 1881.]
TITLE XXXI. —Miscellaneous Provisions.
Sec. 1104. [Pending1 chancery cases.]—Sec. 4. The final orders or
decrees of chancery heretofore rendered, or which may hereafter be rendered, in
any chancery proceedings pending at the time this act shall take effect, may be
enforced or reviewed in the same manner, and within the same time, as if this
act had not taken effect ; and all suits in chancery pending at the time of the
taking effect of this act may be prosecuted to final decree in like manner.
[1867, 71.]
Sec. 1105. [Definitions.] —Sec. 5. The words hereinafter found in the code
of civil procedure, shall be construed and held to mean as follows, to wit : "com
plainant" shall mean plaintiff ; "bill" or "complaint" shall mean petition ; "suit"
shall mean action or civil action; and "decree" shall mean judgment; and all
other words and terms found in said code of civil procedure, heretofore applicable
to the chancery practice hereby repealed, shall be so construed and held as to
carry out the intention of this act, prevent a failure of justice, and give adequate
relief in all cases. [Id.]
SUITS BY AND AGAINST STATE.
Sec. 1106. [District court—Jurisdiction.]—Sec. 1. That the several
district courts of the judicial districts of the state as now provided for and estab
lished by the constitution of the state, and of such judicial districts as may here
after be provided by law, shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the
following matters : First. All claims against the state filed therein, which have
previously been presented to the auditor of public accounts, and have been in
whole or m part rejected or disallowed. Second. All claims or petitions for relief
that may be presented to the legislature, and which may be by any law, or by any
rule or resolution of the legislature, or either house thereof, referred to either of
said courts for adjudication. Third. Of all set-offs, counter-claims, claims for
dumages, liquidated or unliquidated, on the part of the state, against any person
making a claim against the state, or against the person in whose favor such claim
arose. [1877, 19.]
Sec. 1107. [Petition.] -Sec. 2. The claimant shall, in all cases, file a peti
tion, setting forth the facts out of which his claim originally arose ; the action
of the legislature, or of either house* thereof, or of any department of government
thereon, if any such has been had ; what person or persons, is the owner, or are
owners thereof, or in anywise interested therein ; that no assignment or transfer
-of the same, or any part thereof, or interest therein, has been made, except as
stated in the petition; and that the claimant is justly entitled to the amount
claimed therein from the state after allowance of all just credits and set-offs.
The petition shall be verified as now required in civil actions in the district courts.
Sec. 1108. [Summons—Service.] —Sec. 8. Summons shall issue upon the
filing of such petition, and shall be served upon the state by the sheriff of the
county in which the petition may be filed, by serving the same upon the governor
and attorney general ; and in any action, the subject matter of which, in whole
or in part, relates to or grew out of the conduct of any special department or
institution of the government, summons shall also be served oy such sheriff, upon
the chief officer of such department or institution, and the return day thereof
shall be as now provided by law in other actions in the district courts.
Sec. 1109. [Trial—Judgment— Review.] —Sec. 4. The court in which
such action may be brought shall hear and determine the matter upon the testi
mony according to justice and right, as upon the amicable settlement of a contro
versy, and shall render award and judgment against the claimant, or the state,
as upon the testimony right and justice may require. Either party may take
their judgment, by proceedings in error, to the supreme court for review.
Sec. 1110. [Judgment certified to legislature.]— Sec 5. On the first
day of each regular session of the legislature the clerks of the several district
courts shall transmit a full and complete statement of all claims adjudicated
in said courts during the two years previous, certified by himself and signed by
the judge of such court, showing the claimant, the amounts claimed and the judg
ment rendered for or against the claimant.
SEC. 1111. [Place of trial.] —Sec 6. The state may be sued in the district
court of the county wherein the capital is situate, in any matter founded upon or
growing out of a contract, expressed or implied, originally authorized or subse
quently ratified by the legislature, or founded upon any law of the state. The
petition in such a case shall be as provided in section two of this act, summons
shall issue and be served in the Bame manner as hereinbefore provided, and the
rules of pleading and practice in regard to other civil actions in the district court
shall be observed in all actions by or against the state, as far as applicable, ex
cept as otherwise herein provided.
SEC. 1112. [Set-off against state.]— Sec 7. In any civil action instituted
by the state, except in actions for the collection of revenue, or for school or other
trust funds, or against defaulting officers and their bondsmen, the defendant may,
as matter of defense, plead any set-off, counter claim or cross demand that he
may have arising to him in his own right, and upon which an action could be
maintained by him against the state.
SEC. 1113. [Priority of trial—Attendance of witnesses.]— Sec 9. Civil
actions to which the state is a party shall, on motion of counsel on behalf of the
state, have priority of trial over other civil actions ; and the several district courts
having jurisdiction to try actions to which the state is a party, shall have power
to compel attendance of witnesses, as is now had by such courts in other civil ac
tions, and on payment of fees and mileage by the party desiring their attendance,
may compel the attendance of witnesses from any county within the state.
SEC. 1114. [Fraud in proof of claim—Penalty.]— Sec 9. Any person
who corruptly practices, or attempts to practice, any fraud against the state in the
proof, statement, establishment or allowance of any claim or cause of action, or
any part thereof, in the matter out of which the same arose, shall ipso facto for
feit the same to the state ; and it shall be the duty of the court in such case to
find specifically that fraud was practiced, or attempted to be practiced, and to
render judgment of forfeiture, and that the claimant be forever barred from pros
ecuting the same against the state, and for costs.
SEC. 1115. [Fees of officers.]— Sec 10. The fees of sheriff, the clerk, or
other officers, or of witnesses in claims or suits to which the state is a party, shall
be the same, and be paid and taxed in the same manner as in other civil actions
in the district courts.
SEC. 1116. [Attorney for state.]—Sec 11. It shall be the duty of the at
torney general to appear and defend actions or claims against the state. He may
require the assistance of the district or prosecuting attorney of the district or
county wherein the action is brought, and in any case of importance or difficulty
the governor or chief officer of the department or institution to which it relates,
may retain and employ a competent attorney to appear on behalf of the state.
SEC. 1117. [Judgment certified to auditor—Payment—Stay.] —
Sec. 12. The court by which any judgment is rendered against the state, shall
certify the same to the auditor of public accounts, who shall pay the same from
any special fund or appropriation applicable thereto, and if none such have been
provided or made, then from any appropriations made to the department or insti
tution, relating to which the cause of action arose ; Provided, That a certificate
of the auditor of public accounts or of the chief officer of such department or in
stitution that the current appropriations will not permit the payment of such judg
ment without great public inconvenience, 3hall operate as a stay of such judgment
until the adjournment of the next regular session of the legislature ; and in case
of such stay being claimed or taken, interest shall run on such judgment from its
date at the rate of ten per centum per annum.
Sec. 1118. [Same—Against claimant—Docketed where.] —Sec. 18.
In any action in which a judgment is rendered in any sum, or for costs against the
claimant, the clerk of the court in which such judgment was rendered shall make
and transmit a certified copy thereof on application of the attorney general, or
other counsel on behalf of the state, to the clerk of the district court or any county
within the state, and the same shall thereupon be filed and docketed in such court,
and become and be a judgment thereof ; and all judgments against the claimant
or plaintiff shall be collected by execution as other judgments in the district
courts.
Sec. 1119. [Error—Appeal—Proceedings—Supersedeas.] —Sec. 14.
Proceedings in error or appeal from the several district courts to the supreme court,
as in other civil cases, may be taken by either party within the same limitations of
time as in other civil actions. No appeal or supersedeas bond shall be re
quired of the state, and the filing of notice signed by the governor, or chief offi
cer of the proper department, or by the attorney general, or counsel for the state, of
intention to take such proceedings, shall operate as a supersedeas of such judg
ment, and until the time that final judgment in the court of review be rendered in
said cause, but the same shall not so operate longer than six months, unless pro
ceedings in error or appeal are taken, and in case of the affirmance of such judg
ment or failure on the part of the state to take proceedings in error or appeal,
after notice thereof, interest shall run and be computed on such judgment from,
its date.
Sec. 1120. [Payment—Bar of claim.] — Payment and receipt of the
amount due on any judgment rendered in any action brought under the provisions
of this act, shall be a full discharge of the state in such matter, and any final
judgment shall forever bar further controversy upon the subject thereof.
Sec. 1121. [Action, when brought — Limitation.] — Sec. 16. Every
claim and demand against the state shall be forever barred, unless action b*
brought thereon within two years after the claim arose ; Provided, That claims
now subsisting shall not be barred until two years after the taking effect of this
act, and every claim and demand in behalf of the state except for revenue, or upon
official bonds, or for loans or moneys belonging to the school fund, or loans of
school or other trust funds, or to lands or interest in lands thereto belonging,
shall be barred by the same lapse of time as is provided by the law in case of like
demands between private parties ; Provided, however, That in any action on be
half of the state the defendant may plead and avail himself of any set-off or
counter claim growing out of or connected with the same matter or transaction
upon which action is brought against him. [Amended and took effect Feb. 28,
1881.]
Sec. 1122. [Change of venue.] —Sec. 17. Change of venue may be taken
from the district court of the county in which the action is brought as in other civil
cases, on payment of the costs of removal, by the party making application for
such change of venue.
