1000 (i). -The rule of 't"he common law, that statutes in derogation thereof
are to be strictly construed, has- rc application to this code. Its provisions and all
proceedings under it shall be liberally, construed, with a view to promote its ob
ject and assist the parties in obtaining jtystice

SEC. 1001 (1001).(2). The distinctions between actions at law and suits in equity, and
the forms of all such actions and suits heretofore existing, are abolished ; and in
their place there shall be hereafter but one form of action, \*hich shall be called
a civil action.
SEC. 1002 (1002).(3). In such action, the party complaining shall be known as the
plaintiff and the adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 1003 (1003).(4). There can be no feigned issues; but a question of fact not put in
issue by the pleadings may be tried by a jury, upon an order for the trial, stating
distinctly and plainly the question of fact to be tried, and such order is the only
authority necessary for a trial.
SEC. 1004 (1004).(5). Civil actions can only be commenced within the time prescribed
in this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued.
SEC. 1005 (1005).(6). An action for the recovery of the title or possession of lands,
tenements, or hereditaments can only be brought within ten years after the cause
of such action shall have accrued.* This section shall be construed to apply also
to mortgages. Provided, however, that there shall be no limitation to the time
within which any county, city, town, village, or other municipal corporation may
begin an action for the recovery of the title or possession of any public road,
street, alley, or other public grounds or city or town lots.
SEC. 7 (7). Any person entitled to commence any action for the recovery of
the title or possession of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, who may be under
any legal disability when the cause of action accrues, may bring such action
within ten years after the disability is removed, and at no time thereafter.
SEC. 8 (8). An action for the forcible entry and detainer, or forcible detainer
only, of real property, can only be brought within one year after the cause of
such action shall have accrued.
SEC. 9 (9). Civil actions, other than for the recovery of real property, can
only be brought within the following periods, after the cause of action shall have
accrued .
SEC. 10 (10). Within five years, an action upon a specialty, or any agreement,
contract, or promise in writing, or foreign judgment.
SEC. 11 (11). Within four years, an action upon a contract, not in writing,
expressed or implied; an action upon a liability created by statute, other than a
forfeiture or penalty.
SEC. 12 (12). Within four years, an action for trespass upon real property;
an action for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property, including actions
for the specific recovery of personal property; an action for -an injury to the
rights of the plaintiff, not arising on contract, and not hereinafter enumerated ;
an action for relief on the ground of fraud, but the cause of action in such case
shall not [be] deemed to have accrued until the discovery of the fraud.
SEC. 13 (13). Within one year an action for libel, slander, assault and battery,
malicious prosecution, or false imprisonment; an action upon a statute for a
penalty or forfeiture, but where the statute giving such action prescribes a differ
ent limitation, the action may be brought within the period so limited.
SEC. 14 (14). An action upon the official bond or undertaking of an executor,
administrator, guardian, sheriff, or any other officer, or upon the bond or under
taking given in attachment, injunction, or in any case whatever required by
statute, can only be brought within ten years.
SEC. 15 (15). Actions brought for damages growing out of the failure, or
want of consideration of contracts, express or implied, or for the recovery of
money paid upon contracts, express or implied, the consideration of which has
wholly-or in part failed, shall be brought within four years.
SEC. 16 (16). An action for relief not hereinbefore provided for can only be
brought within four years after the cause of action shall have accrued.
SEC. 17 (17). If a person entitled to bring any action mentioned in this title,
except for a penalty or forfeiture, be, at the time the cause of action accrued,
within the age of twenty-one years, a married woman, insane, or imprisoned,
every such person shall be entitled to bring such action within the respective
times limited by this title after such disability shall be removed. The absence
from the state, death, or other disability of a non-resident, save the cases men
tioned in this section, shall not operate to extend the period within which actions
in rem. shall be commenced by and against such non-resident or his repre
sentatives.
SEC. 18 (18). All actions or causes of action which are or have been barred by
the laws of this state, or any state or territory of the United States, shall be
deemed barred under the laws of this state.
SEC. 19 (19). An action shall be deemed commenced, witliin the meaning of
this title, as to the defendant, at the date of the summons which is served on him :
where service by publication is proper, the action shall be deemed commenced at
the date of the first publication, which publication shall be regularly made.

SEC. 20 (20). If, when a cause of action accrues against a person, he be out of
the state, or shall have absconded or concealed himself, the period limited for
the commencement of the action shall not begin to run until he come into the
state, or while he is absconded or concealed ; and if, after the cause of action
accrues, he depart from the state, or abscond or conceal himself, the time of his
absence or concealment shall not be computed as any part of the period within
which the action must be brought.
SEC. 21 (21). When a cause of action has been fully barred by the laws of any
state or country where the defendant has previously resided, such bar shall be the
same defense in this state as though it had arisen under the provisions of this title.
SEC. 22 (22). In any cause founded on contract, when any part of the principal
or interest shall have been paid, or an acknowledgement of an existing liability,
debt, or claim, or any promise to pay the same shall have been made in writing,
an action may be brought in such case within the period prescribed for the same,
after such payment, acknowledgment, or promise.
SEC. 23 (23). In all actions upon bills of exchange or promissory notes, or
other written instruments, whenever any of the parties thereto are designated by
the initial letter or letters, or some contraction of the Christian or first name or
names, it shall be sufficient to designate such person by the name, initial letter or
letters, or contraction of the first name or names, instead of stating the Christian
or first name or names in full.

SEC. 24 (24). Any company or association of persons formed for the purpose
of carrying on any trade or business, or for the purpose of holding any species of
property in this state, and not incorporated, may sue and be sued by such usual
name as such company, partnership, or association may have assumed to itself or
be known by, and it shall not be necessary in such case to set forth in the process
or pleadings or to prove at the trial the names of the persons composing such
company.
SEC. 25 (25). Process against any such company or firm shall be served by a
copy left at their usual place of doing business within the county, with one of
the members of such company or firm, or with a clerk or general agent thereof,
and executions issued on any judgments rendered in such proceedings shall be
levied only on partnership property.
SEC. 26 (26). In cases where a company shall sue in its partnership name, such
company shall procure the writ to be endorsed by a responsible surety, resident
of the county, for costs, or otherwise give security for costs.
SEC. 27 (27). If the plaintiff, in any judgment so rendered against any com
pany or partnership, shall seek to charge the individual property of the persons
composing such company or firm, it shall be lawful for him to file a bill in chancery
against the several members thereof, setting forth his judgment and the insuf
ficiency of the partnership property to satisfy the same, and to have a decree for
the debt, and an award of execution against all such persons, or any of them as
may appear to have been members of such company, association, or firm.
SEC. 29 (29). Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party
in interest, except as otherwise provided in section thirty-two.
SEC. 30 (30). The assignee of a thing in action may maintain an action thereon
in his own name and behalf, without the name of the assignor.
SEC. 31 (31). In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by
the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other defense now al
lowed; but this section shall not apply to negotiable bonds, promissory notes,
or bills of exchange, transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration
before due.
SEC. 32 (32). An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of an express
trust, a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit
of another, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may bring an action with
out joining with him the person for whose benefit, it is prosecuted. Officers may
sue and be sued in such name as is authorized by law, and official bonds may be
sued upon in the same way.
SEC. 35 (35). If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may defend for
her own right; and if the husband neglect to defend, she may defend for his right
also.
SEC. 36 (36). The action of an infant must be brought by his guardian or
next friend. When the action is brought by his next friend, the court has power
to dismiss it, if it is not for the benefit of the infant ; or to substitute the guardian
of the infant, or any person, as the next friend.
SEC. 37 (37). The guardian or the next friend is liable for the costs of the
action brought by him, and, when he is insolvent, the court may require security
for them. Either may be a witness in an action brought by him.
SEC. 38 (38). The defense of an infant must be by a guardian for the suit, who
may be appointed by the court in which the action is prosecuted, or by a judge
thereof, or by a probate judge. The appointment can not be made until after
service of the summons in the action as directed by this code.

SEC. 39 (39). The appointment may be made upon the application of the infant,
if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within twenty days after the return
of the summons. If he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, the
appointment may be made upon the application of any friend of the infant, or on
that of plaintiff in the action.
SEC. 40 (40). All persons having an interest in the subject of the action, and
in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs, except as otherwise
provided in this title.
SEC. 41 (41). Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims an in
terest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a necessary party to a
complete determination or settlement of the question involved therein.
SEC. 42 (42). Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but if the consent of one who should
have been joined as plaintiff can not be obtained, he may be made a defendant,
the reason being stated in the petition.
SEC. 43 (43). When the question is one of a common or general interest of
many persons, or when the parties are very numerous, and it may be impractica
ble to bring them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the
benefit of all.

SEC. 44 (44). Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument,
including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, may, all or any
of them, be mcluded in the same action, at the option of the plaintiff.
SEC. 45 (45). An action does not abate by the death, marriage, or other dis
ability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein during its pendency,
if the cause of action survive or continue. In the case of the marriage of a female
party, the fact being suggested on the record, the husband may be made a party
with his wife; and in the case of the death or other disability of a party, the court
may allow the action to continue by or against his representative or successor in
interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the action may be continued in
the name of the original party ; or the court may allow the person to whom the
transfer is made to be substituted in the action.
SEC. 46 (46). The court may determine any controversy between parties before
it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving
their rights ; but when a determination of the controversy can not be had without
the presence of other parties, the court must order them to be brought in.
SEC. 47 (47). When, in an action for the recovery of real or personal property,
any person having an interest in the property applies to be made a party, the court
may order it to be done.
SEC. 48 (48). Upon the affidavit of a defendant, before answer in an action
upon contract or for the recovery of personal property, that some third party,
without collusion with him, has or makes a claim to the subject of the action, and
that he is ready to pay or dispose of the same as the court may direct, the court
may make an order for the safe-keeping, or for the payment, or deposit in court,
or delivery of the subject of the action, to such person as it may direct, and an
order requiring such third party to appear in a reasonable time and maintain or
relinquish his claim against the defendant. If such third party, being served with
a copy of the order by the sheriff or such other person as the court may direct,
fail to appear, the court may declare him barred of all claim in respect to the sub
ject of the action, against the defendant therein. If such third party appear, he
shall be allowed to make himself defendant in the action, in lieu of the original
defendant, who shall be discharged from all liability to either of the other parties
in respect to the subject of the action, upon his compliance with the order of the
court for the payment, deposit, or delivery thereof.
SEC. 49 (49). The provisions of the last section shall be applicable to an action
brought against a sheriff, or other officer, for the recovery of personal property
taken by him under execution, or for the proceeds of such property so taken and
sold by him. And the defendant in such action shall be entitled to the henofit of
those provisions against the party in whose favor the execution issued, upon ex
hibiting to the court the process under which he acted, with his affidavit that the
property, for the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the action is brought, was
taken under such process.
SEC. 50 (50). In an action against a sheriff or other officer for the recovery of
property taken under an execution, and replevied by the plaintiff in such action,
the court may, upon application of the defendant and of the party in whose favor
the execution issued, permit the latter to be substituted as the defendant, security
for the costs being given.
SEC. 1047 (1047). Any person who has or claims an interest in the matter in litigation,
in the success of either of the parties to an action, against both, in any action
pending or to be brought in any of the courts of the state of Nebraska, may
become a party to an action between any other persons or corporations, either by
joining the plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the petition, or by uniting with
the defendants in resisting the claim of the plaintiff, or by demanding anything
adversely to both the plaintiff and defendant, either before or after issue has been
joined in the action, and before the trial commences.
SEC. 1048 (1048). The court shall determine upon the intervention at the same time that
the action is decided, and if the claim of the intervenor is not sustained he shall
pay all costs of the intervention.
SEC. 1049 (1049). The intervention shall be by petition, which must set forth the facts on
which the intervention rests, and all the pleadings therein shall be governed by
the same rules as obtain in regard to other pleadings provided for by the code.
But if such petition is filed during term the court shall direct the time in which
answers thereto shall be filed.
SEC. 51 (51). All actions to recover damages for any trespass upon or any in
jury to real estate shall be brought only in the county where such real estate is
situated, and all * actions for the following causes must be brought in the
county in which the subject of the action is situated, except as provided in section
fifty-two (52) (1051). First—For the recovery of real property or of an estate
or interest therein. Second—For the partition of real property. Third—For the
sale of real property under a mortgage, lien, or other incumbrance or charge; *
Provided, All actions now pending in any district court for any of the causes men
tioned in this section, not within the county wherein such real estate is situated,
shall remain, be tried, and disposed of in the county where commenced.
SEC. 52 (52). If the real property, the subject of the action, be an entire tract,
and situated in two or more counties, or if it consists of separate tracts situated
in two or more counties, the action may be brought in any county in which any
tract or part thereof is situated, unless it be an action to recover the possession
thereof. And if the property be an entire tract, situated in two or more counties,
an action to recover the possession thereof may be brought in either of such coun
ties ; but if it consists of separate tracts in different counties, the possession of
such tracts must be recovered by separate actions brought in the counties where
they are situated.
SEC. 53 (53). An action to compel the specific performance of a contract of
sale of real estate may be brought in the county where the defendants, or any of
them, reside.
SEC. 54 (54). Actions for the following causes must be brought in the county
where the cause, or some part thereof, arose: First—An action for the recovery
of a fine, forfeiture, or penalty, imposed by a statute ; except that, when it is im
posed for an offense committed, on a river, or other stream of water, or road which
is the boundary of two or more counties, the action may be brought in any county
bordering on such river, water-course, or road, and opposite to the place where
the offense was committed. Second—An action against a public officer, for an act
done by him in virtue or under color of his office, or for a neglect of his official
duty. Third—An action on the official bond or undertaking of a public officer.
SEC. 55 (55). An action other than one of those mentioned in the first three sections of this title, against a corporation created by the laws of this state, may
be brought in the county in which it is situated or has its principal office or place
of business ; but if such corporation be an insurance company, the action may be
brought in the county where the cause of action, or some part thereof, arose.
SEC. 56 (56). An action against a railroad company, or an owner of a line of
mail stages, or other coaches, for an injury to person or property upon the road
or line, or upon a liability as a carrier, may be brought in any county through or
into which the said road or line passes.
SEC. 57 (57). An action other than one of those mentioned in the first three sec
tions of this title against a turnpike road company may be brought in any county
in which any part of the road lies.
SEC. 58 (58). The provisions of this title shall not apply in the case of any cor
poration created by a law of this state whose charter prescribed a place where
alone a suit against such corporation may be brought.
SEC. 59 (59). An action other than one of those mentioned in the first three sections of this title, against a non-resident of this state or a foreign corporation
may be brought in any county in which there may be property of, or debts owing
to said defendant, or where said defendant may be found ; but if said defendant be
a foreign insurance company, the action may be brought in any county where the
cause, or some part thereof, arose.
SEC. 60 (60). Every other action must be brought in the county in which the
defendant, or some one of the defendants, resides, or may be summoned.
SEC. 61 (61). In all cases in which it shall be made to appear to the court that
a fair and impartial trial can not be had in the county where the suit is pending,
or when the judge is interested or has been of counsel in the case or subject-mat
ter thereof, or is related to either of the parties, or otherwise disqualified to sit,
the court may, on application of either party, change the place of trial to some
adjoining county, wherein such impartial trial can be had ; but if the objection
be against all the counties of the district, then to the nearest county in the adjoin
ing district.
SEC. 1061 (1061). When an order is made transferring a cause for trial, as provided in
the preceding section [1060], the clerk of the court must transmit the pleadings
and papers therein to the clerk of the court to which it is transferred. The costs
and fees thereof, and of filing the papers anew, must be paid by the party at whose
instance the order was made. The court to which an action is transferred shall
have and exercise over the same the like jurisdiction as if it had been originally
commenced therein.
SEC. 1062 (1062). When an action affecting the title or possession of real estate has been
brought in or transferred to any court of a county, other than the county in which
the real estate or some portion of it is situated, the clerk of such court must, after
final judgment therein, certify such judgment under his seal of office, and trans
mit the same to the corresponding court of the county in which the real estate
affected by the action is situated. The clerk receiving such copy must file, docket,
and record such judgment in the records of the court, briefly designating it as a
judgment transferred from court (naming the proper court).
SEC. 62 (62). A civil action must be commenced by filing in the office of the
clerk of the proper court a petition, and causing a summons to be isseued thereon.
SEC. 63 (63). The plaintiff shall also file with the clerk of the court a precipe,
stating the names of the parties to the action, and demanding that a summons issue
thereon.
SEC. 64 (64). The summons shall be issued by the clerk, shall be under the seal
of the court from which the same shall issue, and shall be signed by the clerk. Its
style shall be, "The state of Nebraska, county," and it shall be dated the
day it is issued. It shall be directed to the sheriff of the county, and command
him to notify the defendant or defendants named therein that he or they have been
sued, and must answer the petition filed by the plaintiff, giving his name at the
time stated therein, or the petition will be taken as true, and judgment rendered
accordingly. And where the action is for the recovery of money only, there shall
be endorsed on the writ the amount to be furnished in the precipe, for which, with
interest, judgment will be taken if the defendant fail to answer. If the defendant
fail to appear, judgment shall not be rendered for a larger amount and the costs.

SEC. 65 (65). Where the action is rightly brought in any county, according to
the provisions of title four, a summons shall be issued to any other county, against
any one or more of the defendants at the plaintiff's request.
SEC. 66 (66). Whenever the time for bringing parties into court is not fixed
by statute the summons shall be returnable on the second Monday after the day of
its date, but when issued to any other county than the one in which the action is
brought, it may be made returnable at the option of the party having it issued on
the third or fourth Monday after its date. It shall state the day of the montli on
which it is returnable.
SEC. 67 (67). When a writ is returned "not summoned," other writs may be
issued, until the defendant or defendants shall be summoned; and when defend
ants reside in different counties, writs may be issued to such counties at the same
time.
SEC. 68 (68). The summons shall be served by the officer to whom it is directed,
who shall indorse on the original writ the time and manner of service. It may
also be served by any person not a party to the action, appointed by the officer .to
whom it is directed. The authority of such person shall be indorsed on the writ.
When the writ is served by a person appointed by the officer to whom it is directed,
or when the service is made out of this state, the return shall be verified by oath
or affirmation.
SEC. 69 (69). The service shall be by delivering a copy of the summons to the
defendant personally, or by leaving one at his usual place of residence, at any
time before the return day.
SEC. 70 (70). In all cases the return must state the time and manner of service.
SEC. 71 (71). The officer to whom the summons is directed must return the
same at the time therein stated.
SEC. 72 (72). An acknowledgment on the back of the summons or the volun
tary appearance of a defendant is equivalent to a service.
SEC. 73 (73). A summons against a corporation may be served upon the presi
dent, mayor, chairman of the board of directors or trustees, or other chief officer ;
or, if its chief officer is not found in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secre
tary, clerk, or managing agent ; or, if none of the aforesaid officers can be found,
by a copy left at the office or last usual place of business of such corporation.
SEC. 74 (74). When the defendant is an incorporated insurance company, and
the action is brought in a county in which there is an agency thereof, the service
may be upon the chief officer of such agency.
SEC. 75 (75). When the defendant is a foreign corporation, having a managing
agent in this state, the service may be upon such agent.
SEC. 76 (76). When the defendant is a minor under the age of fourteen years,
the service must be upon him, and upon his guardian or father ; or, if neither of
these can be found, then upon his mother, or the person having the care or control
of the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither of these can be found, or if the
minor be more than fourteen years of age, service on him alone shall be sufficient.
The manner of service may be the same as in the case of adults.
SEC. 77 (77). Service may be made by publication in either of the following
cases: First—In actions brought under the fifty-first, fifty-second, and fifty-third sections of this Code, where any or all of the defendant's reside out of the state.
Second—In actions brought to establish or set aside a will, where any or all of the
defendants reside out of the state. Third—In actions brought against a non-resi
dent of this state, or a foreign corporation having in this state property or debts
owing to them, sought to be taken by any of the provisional remedies, or to be
appropriated in any way. Fourth—In actions which relate to, or the subject of
which is, real or personal property in this state where any defendant has or claims
a lien or interest, actual or contingent therein, or the relief demanded consists
wholly or partially in excluding him from any interest therein, and such defend
ant is a non-resident of the state or a foreign corporation. Fifth—In all actions
where the defendant, being a resident of the state, has departed therefrom, or from
the county of his residence, with intent to delay or defraud his creditors or to avoid
the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent.
SEC. 78 (78). Before service can be made by publication, an affidavit must be
filed that service of a summons can not be made within this state on the de
fendant or defendants to be served by publication, and that the case is one of
those mentioned in the preceding section. When such affidavit is filed, the party
may proceed to make service by publication.
SEC. 79 (79). The publication must be made four consecutive weeks in some
newspaper printed in the county where the petition is filed, if there be any printed
in such county; and if there be not, in some newspaper printed in this state of
general circulation in that county. It must contain a summary statement of the
object and prayer of the petition, mention the court wherein it is filed, and notify
the person or persons thus to be served when they are required to answer.
SEC. 80 (80). Service by publication shall be deemed complete when it shall have
been made in the manner and for the time prescribed in the preceding section ; and
such service shall be proved by the affidavit of the printer or his foreman or princi
pal clerk, or other person knowing the same.
SEC. 81 (81). In all cases where service may be made by publication, and in all
other cases where the defendants are non-residents, and the cause of action arose
in the state, suit may be brought in the county where the cause of action arose, and
personal service of the summons may be made out of the state by the sheriff or
some person appointed by him for that purpose. In all cases where service of a
summons is made on a person without the state, proof of such service must be
made by affidavit, stating the time and manner of service, and such service shall
be made in the same manner as summonses are served on parties residing within
this state.
SEC. 82 (82). A party against whom a judgment or order has been rendered
without other service than by publication in a newspaper, may, at any time within
five years after the date of the judgment or order, have the same opened, and be
let in to defend ; before the judgment or order shall be opened, the applicant shall
give notice to the adverse party of his intention to make such an application,
and shall file a full answer to the petition, pay all costs, if the court require them
to be paid, and make it appear to the satisfaction of the court, by affidavit, that
during the pendency of the action he had no actual notice thereof in time to ap
pear in court and make his defense ; but the title to any property, the subject of the
judgment or order sought to be opened, which by it, or in consequence of it, shall
have passed to a purchaser in good faith, shall not be affected by any proceed
ings under this section, nor shall they affect the title of any property sold before
judgment under an attachment. The adverse party, on the hearing of an appli
cation to open a judgment or order, as provided by this section, shall be allowed
to present counter-affidavits, to show that during the pendency of the action the
applicant had notice thereof in time to appear in court and make his defense.
SEC. 83 (83). In actions where it shall be necessary to make the heirs or
devisees of any deceased person defendants, and it shall appear, by the affidavit of
the plaintiff annexed to his petition that the names of such heirs or devisees, or
any of them, and their residence, are unknown to the plaintiff, proceedings may be
had against such unknown heirs or devisees, without naming them, and the court
shall make such order respecting service as may be deemed proper ; if service by
publication be ordered, the publication shall not be less than four weeks.
SEC. 84 (84). Where the action is against two or more defendants, and one or
more shall have been served, but not all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as
follows: First—If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon contract,
he may proceed against the defendant served, unless the court otherwise direct
Second—If the action be against defendants, severally liable, he may, without
prejudice to his rights against those not served, proceed against the defendants
served in the same manner as if they were the only defendants.
SEC. 85. (85.).When the summons has been served or publication made, the
action is pending so as to charge third persons with notice of pendency, and while
pending no interest can be acquired by third persons in the subject-matter thereof,
as against the plaintiff's title ; * Provided, hoivcver, That in all actions brought to
affect the title to real property, the plaintiff may, either at the time of filing his
petition or afterwards, file, or in case any defendent sets up an affirmative cause
of action, and demands relief which shall affect the title to real estate, may, at the
time of filing such answer, or any time afterwards, file with the clerk or register
of deeds of each county in which the said real estate thus to be affected, or any part thereof, may be situated, a notice of the pendency of such action, containing
the names of the parties, the object of the action, and a description of the property
in such county sought to be affected thereby. If the action be for a foreclosure of
a mortgage, such notice must contain the date of the mortgage, the parties thereto,
and the time and place of recording the same. The clerk or register of deeds of
such county shall record notice thus filed and enter the same upon the numerical
index of all lands, any part of which is included in the description in said notice,
for which he shall be entitled to receive the sum of fifty (50) cents, to be paid by
the person filing such notice, and which shall be taxed as part of the costs in said
action. From the time of filing such notice shall the pendency of such action be
constructive notice to any purchaser or incumbrancer to be affected thereby, and
every person whose conveyance or incumbrance is subsequently executed or sub
sequently recorded shall be deemed to be a subsequent purchaser or incumbrancer,
and shall be bound by all proceedings taken in said action after the filing of such
notice to the same extent as if he were made a party to the action. The court in
which said action was commenced may at any time after the action shall be settled,
discontinued, or abated, on an application of any person aggrieved, and on good
cause shown, and on such notice as the court may determine, order said notice to
be canceled by the clerk or register of deeds of any county in which said notice
may have been filed or recorded. Such cancellation shall be made by an endorse
ment to that effect on the margin of the record, which shall refer to the order
directing the same, for which the clerk or recorder shall be entitled to a fee of
twenty-five (25) cents. 

SEC. 86 (86). When any part of the real property, the subject-matter of an
action, is situated in any other county or counties than the one in which the action
is brought, a certified copy of the judgment in such action must be recorded in the
clerk's office of such" other county or counties before it shall operate therein as a
notice, so as to charge third persons as provided in the preceding section. It shall
operate as such notice without record in the county where it is rendered ; but this section shall not apply to actions of proceedings under any statute now in force
which does not require such record.
SEC. 1088 (1088). That it shall be lawful for any person, or corporation, owning or claim
ing any interest in or lien upon any real estate lying within this state, to make and
file in the office of the county clerk of the county in which such real estate is situ
ated an appointment, in writing, of some person, who shall be a resident of the
county in which said lands lie, upon whom process may be sued [served], in any
suit, action, or proceeding, concerning or affecting such real estate, to which such
owner or claimant shall be made a party. Such appointment shall be acknowl
edged in the manner provided by law for the acknowledgement of deeds. From
and after the filing of such appointment as herein provided, service of any writ,
summons, order, or notice, in any suit, action, or proceeding, concerning or affect
ing such real estate, shall be made upon the person so appointed and designated in
such manner as may be provided by law for the service of process upon persons
found in this state, and shall be held and taken to be a valid and effectual service
upon such owner or claimant. A copy of such appointment, or of the record
thereof, duly certified by the said clerk, shall be deemed sufficient evidence thereof,
And no service made by publication shall be valid in respect to any such owner or
claimant, who shall have filed an appointment under the provisions of this act ;
Provided, That such appointment may be at any time revoked by such owner or
claimant, but such revocation shall be in writing, duly acknowledged, and filed and
recorded in the office of the county clerk in which the appointment shall have been
act shall' in nowise affect any action or proceeding which shall have been com
menced before the same shall have been recorded : And provided further, That this
act shall in nowise affect any action or proceeding which shall have been com
menced before the passage hereof, in which service of process shall have been
made in accordance with the law in force at the time of its commencement.

SEC. 1089 (1089). That the county clerk of each county shall keep a book in which he
shall record such appointments as shall be filed under the provisions of this act
and any revocation thereof, and shall be entitled to demand and receive therefor a
fee of seventy-five cents, and ten cents for each folio of one hundred words con
tained therein.
SEC. 87 (87). The plaintiff may unite several causes of action in the same peti
tion, whether they be such as have heretofore been denominated legal or equitable, or
both, when they are included in either of the following classes : First—The same
transaction or transactions connected with the same subject of action. Second—
Contracts, express or implied. Third—Injuries, with or without force, to person
and property, or either. Fourth—Injuries to character. Fifth—Claims to recover
the possession of personal property, with or without damages for the withholding
thereof. Sixth—Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for the
withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same. Seventh—Claims
against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or by operation of law.
SEC. 88 (88). The causes of action so united must affect all the parties to the
action, and not require different places of trial.
SEC. 89 (89). The pleadings are the written statements by the parties of the
facts constituting their respective claims and defenses.
SEC. 90 (90). The rules of pleading heretofore existing in civil actions are
abolished, and hereafter the forms of pleading in civil actions in courts of record,
and the rules by which their sufficiency may be determined, are those prescribed
by this code.
SEC. 91 (91). [Pleadings allowed.] —The only pleadings allowed are: First—
The petition by the plaintiff. Second—The answer or demurrer by the defendant.
Third—The demurrer or reply by the plaintiff. Fourth—The demurrer to the re
ply by the defendant.
SEC. 92 (92). Contents. The petition must contain: First—The name of the
court and county in which the action is brought, and the names of the parties,
plaintiff and defendant. Second—A statement of the facts constituting the cause
of action in ordinary and concise language, and without repetition. Third—A de
mand of the relief to which the party supposes himself entitled. If the recovery of
money be demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated ; and if interest thereon be
claimed, the time from which interest is to be computed shall also be stated.
SEC. 93 (93). Where the petition contains more than one cause of action, each
shall be separately stated and numbered.
SEC. 94 (94). The defendant may demur to the petition only when it appears on
its face : Either—First—That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the de
fendant or the subject of the action. Second—That the plaintiff has not legal
capacity to sue. Third—That there is another action pending between the same
parties for the same cause. Fourth—That there is a defect of parties plaintiff or
defendant. Fifth—That several causes of action are improperly joined. Sixth—
That the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
SEC. 95 (95). The demurrer shall specify distinctly the grounds of objection to
the petition. Unless it do so, it shall be regarded as objecting only that the peti
tion does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
SEC. 96 (96). When any of the defects enumerated in section ninety-four
do not appear upon the face of the petition, the objection may be taken by answer;
and if no objection be taken either by demurrer or answer the defendant shall be
deemed to have waived the same, except only the objection to the jurisdiction of the
court, and that the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.
SEC. 97 (97). When a demurrer is sustained on the ground of misjoinder of sev
eral causes of action, the court, on motion of the plaintiff, shall allow him, with or
without costs in its discretion, to file several petitions, each including such of said
causes of action as might have been joined; and an action shall be docketed for
each of said petitions, and the same shall be proceeded in without further service.
SEC. 98 (98). The defendant may demur to one or more of the several causes
of action stated in the petition and answer as to the residue.
SEC. 59 (59). The answer shall contain: First—A general or specific denial of
each material allegation of the petition controverted by the defendant. Sccotid—
A statement of any new matter constituting a defense, counter-claim, or set-off, in
ordinary and concise language, and without repetition.
SEC. 100 (100). The defendant may set forth in his answer as many grounds of
defense, counter-claim, and set-off as he may have. Each must be separately
stated and numbered, and they must refer in an intelligible manner to the cause of
action which they are intended to answer.
SEC. 101 (101). The counter-claim mentioned in the last section must be one
existing in favor of a defendant, and against a plaintiff, between whom a several
judgment might be had in the action, and arising out of the contract or transaction
set forth in the petition as the foundation of the plaintiff's claim, or connected with
the subject of the action.
SEC. 102 (102). If the defendant omit to set up the counter-claim or set-off, he
can not recover costs against the plaintiff in any subsequent action thereon ; but
this section shall not apply to causes of action which are stricken out of or with
drawn from the answer, as provided in sections one hundred and three and one
hundred and twenty-six.
SEC. 103 (103).. When it appears that a new party is necessary to a final decision
upon the counter-claim, the court may either permit the new party to be made, by
a summons, to reply to the counter-claim, or may direct the counter-claim to be
stricken out of the answer and made the subject of a separate action.
SEC. 104 (104). A set-off can only be pleaded in an action founded on contract,
and must be a cause of action arising upon contract, or ascertained by the decision
of the court.
SEC. 105 (105). When it appears that a new party is necessary to a final decision
upon the set-off, the court shall permit the new party to be made, if it also appear
that, owing to the insolvency or non-residence of the plaintiff or other cause, the
defendant will be in danger of losing his claim unless permitted to use it as a
set-off. .
SEC. 106 (106). When cross-demands have existed between persons under such
circumstances that if one had brought an action against the other a counter-claim
or set-off could have been set up, neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof by
the assignment or death of the other, but the two demands must be deemed com
pensated, so far as they equal each other.
SEC. 107 (107). The guardian of an infant or person of unsound mind, or at
torney for a person in prison, shall deny in the answer all material allegations of
the petition prejudicial to such defendant.
SEC. 109 (109). The plaintiff may demur to one or more of the defenses set up
in the answer, stating' in his demurrer the grounds thereof ; and where the answer
contains new matter the plaintiff may reply to such new matter, denying generally
or specifically each allegation controverted by him ; and he may allege, in ordinary
and concise language, and without repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with
the petition, constituting a defense to such new matter in the answer.
SEC. 110 (110). The answer or demurrer of the defendant shall be filed on or
before the third Monday, and the reply or demurrer of the plaintiff on or before
the fifth Monday, after the return day of the summons or service by publication.

SEC. 111 (111). The court, or the judge thereof in vacation, for good cause
shown, may extend the time for filing an answer or reply upon such terms as may
be just.
SEC. 112 (112). Every pleading in a court of record must be subscribed by the
party or his attorney.
SEC. 113 (113). Every pleading of fact must be verified by the affidavit of the
party, his agent, or attorney. A pleading verified as herein required shall not be
used against a party in any criminal prosecution or action or proceeding for a pen
alty or forfeiture, as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading ; and such
verification shall not make other or greater proof necessary on the side of the ad
verse party.
SEC. 114 (114). The verification mentioned in the last section shall not be re
quired to the answer of a guardian defending for an infant or person of unsound
mind, or a person imprisoned ; nor in any case where the admission of the truth of
a fact stated in the pleading might, subject the party to a criminal or penal
prosecution.
SEC. 115 (115). If there be several persons united in interest and pleading to
gether, the affidavit may be made by any one of such parties.
SEC. 116 (116).. The affidavit shall be sufficient if it state that the affiant believes
the facts stated in the pleading to be true.
SEC. 117 (117). In all cases where the party pleading is a non-resident of the
county in which the action is brought, or if he shall be absent from the county
where the pleading is filed, an affidavit made before filing the pleading, stating the
substance of the facts afterwards inserted in the pleading, shall be a sufficient veri
fication. Such affidavit shall be filed with the pleading intended to be verified
thereby.
SEC. 118 (118). The affidavit verifying pleadings may be made before any
notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths, and must be signed
by the party making the same ; and the officer before whom the same was taken
shall certify that it was sworn to or affirmed before him and signed in his pres
ence. The certificate of such officer, signed officially by him, shall be evidence
that the affidavit was duly made, that the name of the officer was written by him
self, and that he was such officer, and nothing herein shall be construed to pro
hibit an attorney at law, who is a notary public, from swearing a client to any
pleading or other paper or affidavit in any proceeding in any of the courts of this
state.
SEC. 119 (119). The verification of the pleading does not apply to the amount
claimed, except in actions founded on contracts, express or implied, for the pay
ment of money only.
SEC. 1122 (1122). When the affidavit is made by the agent or attorney, it must set
forth the reason why it is not made by the party himself. It can be made by the
agent or attorney only : First—When the facts are within the personal knowledge
of the agent or attorney. Second—When the plaintiff is an infant, or of unsound
mind, or imprisoned. Third—When the pleading to be verified is founded upon
a written instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument is in
possession of the agent or attorney. Fourth—When the party is not a resident of,
or is absent from the county. Fifth—When the party is a corporation, in which
case it may be made by the attorney, or any officer or agent upon whom a sum
mons could be legally served.
SEC. 121 (121). In the construction of any pleading, for the purpose of de
termining its effects, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view to
substantial justice between the parties.
SEC. 124 (124). If the action, counter-claim, or set-off be founded on an account,
or on a note, bill, or other written instrument, as evidence of indebtedness, a copy
thereof must be attached to and filed with the pleading, except in actions founded
upon notes issued to circulate as money. If not so attached and filed, the reason
thereof must be shown in the pleading.
SEC. 125 (125). If redundant, scandalous, or irrelevant matter be inserted in any
pleading, it may be stricken out on motion of the party prejudiced thereby. And
when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite and uncertain that the precise
nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may require the pleading
to be made definite and certain by amendment.
SEC. 126 (126). The court, at any time before the final submission of the cause,
on motion of the defendant, may allow a counter-claim or set-off. set up in the
answer, to be withdrawn, and the same may become the subject of another action.
On motion of either party, to be made at the time such counter-claim or set-off is
withdrawn, an action on the same shall be docketed and proceeded in as in like
cases after process served ; and the court shall direct the time and manner of plead
ing therein. If an action be not so docketed, it may afterwards be commenced in
the ordinary way.
SEC. 127 (127). In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court or
officer of special jurisdiction, it shall be sufficient to state that such judgment or
determination was duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the
party pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.
SEC. 128 (128). In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a con
tract,' it shall be sufficient to state that the party duly performed, all the conditions
on his part; and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must estab
lish on the trial the facts showing such performance.
SEC. 129 (129). In an action, counter-claim, or set-off, founded upon an account,
promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument, for the unconditional pay
ment of money only, it shall be sufficient for the party to give a copy of the account
or instrument, with all credits and indorsements thereon, and to state that there is
due to him on such account or instrument, from the adverse party, a specified sum,
which he claims with interest. When others than the makers of a promissory
note, or the acceptors of a bill of exchange, are parties in the action, it shall be
neccessary to state also the kind of liability of the several parties, and the facts, as
they may be, which fix their liability.
SEC. 130 (130). In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it
shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of its passage, and
the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

SEC. 131 (131). In an action for a libel or slander it shall be sufficient to state,
generally, that the defamatory matter was published or spoken of the plaintiff,
and if the allegation be denied, the plaintiff must prove on the trial the facts, show
ing that the defamatory matter was published or spoken of him.
SEC. 132 (132). 1° tne actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may
allege the truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and may prove the same
and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of damages, or he may
prove either.
SEC. l33 (l33). 1° an action for the recovery of real property, it shall be de
scribed with sufficient certainty to enable an officer holding an execution to identify
it.
SEC. l34 (l34). Every material allegation of the petition not controverted by the
answer, and every material allegation of new matter in the answer not contro
verted by the reply, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true ; but the
allegation of new matter in the reply shall be deemed controverted by the adverse
party as upon a direct denial or avoidance. Allegations of value or of amount of
damage shall not be considered as true by failure to controvert them.
SEC. 135 (135). A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim
or defense which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it
insufficient.
SEC. 136 (136). Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of which judicial
notice is taken, need be stated in the pleading.
SEC. 137 (137). If an original pleading be lost, or withheld by any person, the
court may allow a copy thereof to be substituted.
SEC. 138 (138). No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof
is to be deemed material unless it have actually misled the adverse party, to his
prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. Whenever it is
alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact must be proved to the satisfaction
of the court, and it must also be shown in what respect he has been misled; and
thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended upon such terms as
may be just.
SEC. 139 (139). Whenever the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, and
may order an immediate amendment without costs.
SEC. 140 (140). When, however, the allegation of the claim or defense to which
the proof is directed is unproved, not in some particular or particulars only, but
in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of variance within
the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
SEC. 141 (141). The plaintiff may amend his petition without leave, at any time
before the answer is filed, without prejudice to the proceeding; but notice of such
amendment shall be served upon the defendant, or his attorney, and the defendant
shall have the same time to answer or demur thereto as to the original petition.
SEC. 142 (142). At any time within ten days after a demurrer is filed, the ad
verse party may amend, of course, on payment of costs since filing the defective
pleading. Notice of filing an amended pleading shall be forthwith served upon
the other party, who shall have the same time thereafter to answer or reply thereto
as to an original pleading.

SEC. 143 (143). Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party who demurred may
answer or reply, if the court be satisfied that he has a meritorious claim or de
fense and did not demur for delay.
SEC. 144 (144). The court may, either before or after judgment, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading, process, or
proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
.mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting
other allegations material to the case, or, when the amendment does not change
substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the pleading or proceeding to
the facts proved. And whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails to con
form, in any respect, to the provisions of this Code, the court may permit the
same to he made conformable thereto by amendment.
SEC. 145 (145). The court, in every stage of an action, must disregard any error
or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which does not affect the substantial
rights of the adverse party; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by
reason of such error or defect.
SEC. 146 (146). If the demurrer be sustained, the adverse party may amend, if
the defect can be remedied by way of amendment, with or without costs, as the
court in its discretion shall direct.
SEC. 147 (147). When either party shall amend any pleading or proceeding, and
the court shall be satisfied, by affidavit or otherwise, that the adverse party could
not be ready for trial in consequence thereof, a continuance may be granted to
some day in term or to another term of the court.
SEC. 148 (148). When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name of a defendant,
such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name and
description, and when his true name is discovered the pleading or proceeding may
be amended accordingly. The plaintiff in such case must state, in the verification
of his petition, that he could not discover the true name, and the summons must
contain the words "real name unknown," and a copy thereof must be served per
sonally upon the defendant.
SEC. 149 (149). Either party may be allowed, on notice, and on such terms as to
costs as the court may prescribe, to file a supplemental petition, answer, or reply,
alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the former petition, answer, or
reply.

SEC. 150 (150). Whenever two or more actions are pending in the same court
which might have been joined, the defendant may, on motion and notice to the ad
verse party, require him to show cause why the same shall not be consolidated, and
if no such cause be shown, the said several actions shall be consolidated.
SEC. 151 (151). The order for consolidation may be made by the court or by a
judge thereof in vacation.
SEC. 181 (181). The plaintiff in an action to recover the possession of specific
personal property may, at the commencement of the suit, or any time before
answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 182 (182). An order for the delivery of personal property to the plaintiff
shall be made by the clerk of the court in which the action is brought, when there
shall be filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney show
ing : First—A description of the property claimed. Second—That the plaintiff is
the owner of the property, or has a special ownership or interest therein, stating the
facts in relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the immediate possession of the
same. Third—That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant. Fourth
—That it was not taken in execution on any order or judgment against said
plaintiff ; or for the payment of any fine, tax, or amercement assessed against him,
or by virtue of an order of delivery issued under this chapter, or any other mesne
or final process issued against him ; * Provided, That such affidavit may omit the
first and last clause of this subdivision, and in lieu thereof show that the property
was taken in execution on a judgment or order, other than an order of delivery
in replevin, and that the same is exempt from such execution or attachment under
the laws of this state ; And provided further, That the provisions of this act shall
extend to and apply as well to proceedings in replevin had before justices of the
peace.

SEC. 183 (183). The order for the delivery of the property to the plaintiff shall
be addressed and delivered to the sheriff. It shall state the names of the parties,
the court in which the action is brought, and command the sheriff to take the
property, describing it, and deliver it to the plaintiff, and to make return of the
order on a day to be named therein.

SEC. 184 (184). The return day for the order of delivery, when issued at the
commencement of the suit, shall be the same as that of the summons ; when issued
afterwards, it shall be twenty clays after it issued.
SEC. 185 (185). The sheriff shall execute the order by taking the property
therein mentioned. He shall also deliver a copy of the order to the person charged
with the unlawful detention of the property, or leave such copy at his usual place of
residence.
SEC. 186 (186). The sheriff, or other officer, shall not deliver to the plaintiff, his
agent, or attorney the property so taken, until there has been executed by one or
more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff a written undertaking to the defendant, in
at least double the value of the property taken, to the effect that the plaintiff shall
duly prosecute the action and pay all costs and damages which may be awarded
against him, * and return the property to the defendant, in case j'udgment for a
return of such property is rendered against him.* The undertaking shall be re
turned with the order.
SEC. 187 (187). For the purpose of fixing the amount of the undertaking, the
value of the property taken shall be ascertained by the oath of two or more
responsible persons, whom the sheriff or other officer shall swear truly to assess
the value thereof.

SEC. 188 (188). If the undertaking, required by section one hundred and eighty-
six, be not given within twenty-four hours from the taking of the property under
said order, the sheriff or other officer shall return the property to the defendant.
And if the sheriff or other officer deliver any property so taken to the plaintiff, his
agent, or attorney, or keep the same from the defendant, without taking such se
curity within the time aforesaid, or if he take insufficient security, he shall be liable
to the defendant in damages.
SEC. 189 (189). The defendant may, within twenty-four hours from the time the
undertaking referred to in the preceding section is given by the plaintiff, give
notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to
do so, he must be deemed to have waived all objections to them. When the de
fendant excepts, the sureties must justify upon notice as bail on arrest. The
sheriff or other officer shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties, until
the objection to them is waived as provided or until they justify. The property
shall be delivered to the plaintiff when the undertaking required by section one
hundred and eighty-six has been given.
SEC. 190 (190). [Proceedings in action—Jury—Findings.] —If the property has
been delivered to the plaintiff, and judgment be rendered against him on demurrer,
or if he otherwise fail to prosecute his action to final judgment, the court shall, on
application of the defendant or his attorney, impanel a jury to inquire into the right
of property and right of possession of the defendant to the property taken. If the
jury shall be satisfied that said property was the property of the defendant at the
commencement of the action, or if they shall find that the defendant was entitled
to the possession only of the same at such time, then, and in either case, they shall
assess such damages for the defendant as are right and proper; for which, with
costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for the defendant.
SEC. 191 (191). In all cases, when the property has been delivered to the plaintiff,
where the jury shall find upon issue joined for the defendant, they shall also find
whether the defendant had the right of property or the right of possession only, at
the commencement of the suit; and if they find either in his favor, they shall
assess such damages as they think right and proper for the defendant; for which,
with costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for the defendant.
SEC. 1163 (1163). The judgment in the cases mentioned in sections one hundred and
ninety and one hundred and ninety-one [1161-62] and in section one thousand and
forty-one cf said code LIQ86], shall be for a return of the property or the value
thereof in case a return can not be had, or the value of the possession of the same,
and for damages for withholding said property and costs of suit.

SEC. 192 (192). In all cases when the property has been delivered to the plain
tiff, where the jury shall find for the plaintiff, on an issue joined, or on inquiry of
damages upon a judgment by default, they shall assess adequate damages to the
plaintiff for the illegal detention of the property; for which with costs of
suit, the court shall render judgment for defendant.
SEC. 193 (193). When the property claimed has not been taken, or has been re
turned to the defendant by the sheriff for want of the undertaking required by section one hundred and eighty-six, the action may proceed as one for damages
only, and the plaintiff shall be entitled to such damages as are right and proper;
but if the property be returned for want of the undertaking required by section one
hundred and eighty-six, the plaintiff shall pay all costs made by taking the same.

SEC. 194 (194). An order may be directed to any other county than the one in
which the action is brought, for the delivery of the property claimed. Several
orders may issue at the same time, or successively, at the option of the plaintiff ;
but only one of them shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the
court.

SEC. 195 (195). The sheriff or other officer, in the execution of the order of de
livery, may break open any building or enclosure in which the property claimed, or
any part thereof, is concealed ; but not until he has been refused an entrance into
said building or enclosure and the delivery of the property, after having demanded
the same.

SEC. 196 (196). No suit shall be instituted on the undertaking given under sec
tion one hundred and eighty-six, before an execution issued on a judgment in
favor of the defendant in the action shall have been returned, that sufficient prop
erty whereon to levy and make the amount of such judgment can not be found in
the county.
SEC. 197 (197). Any order for the delivery of property issued under section one
hundred and eighty-two, without the affidavit required thereby, shall be set aside
at the cost of the clerk issuing the same, and such clerk, as well as the plaintiff,
shall also be liable in damages to the party injured.
SEC. 198 (198). The plaintiff, in a civil action for the recovery of money, may, at
or after the commencement thereof, have an attachment against the property of the
defendant, and upon the grounds herein stated : First—When the defendant or
one of several defendants is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this state;
or, Second—Has absconded with the intent to defraud his creditors ; or, Third—
,Has left the county of his residence to avoid the service of a summons; or,
Fourth—So conceals himself that a summons can not be served upon him; or.
Fifth—Is about to remove his property, or a part thereof, out of the jurisdiction
of the court, with the intent to defraud his creditors ; or, Sixth' —Is about to con
vert his property, or a part thereof, into money, for the purpose of placing it be
yond the reach of his creditors ; or, Seventh—Has property, or rights in action,
which he conceals ; or, Eighth—Has assigned, removed, or disposed of, or is about
to dispose of, his property, or a part thereof, with the intent to defraud his cred
itors ; or, Ninth—Fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the obligation for
which suit is about to be or has been, brought. But an attachment shall not be
granted on the ground that the defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resi
dent of this state, for any claim jotherth'an a debt or demand arising upon contract,
judgment, or decree.
SEC. 159 (159). An order of attachment shall be made by the clerk of the court
in which the action is brought, in any case mentioned in the preceding section,
when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney
showing: First—The nature of the plaintiff's claim. Second—That it is just.
Third—The amount which the affiant believes the plaintiff ought to recover.
Fourth—The existence of some one of the grounds for an attachment enumerated
in the preceding section.

SEC. 200 (200). When the ground of the attachment is that the defendant is a
foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this state, the order of attachment may
be issued without an undertaking. In all other cases, the order of attachment
shall not be issued by the clerk until there has been executed [in] his office, by
one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, to be approved by the clerk, an
undertaking, not exceeding double the amount of the plaintiff's claim, to the effect
that the plaintiff shall pay the defendant all damages which he may sustain by rea
son of the attachment if the order be wrongfully obtained.

SEC. 201 (201). The order of attachment shall be directed and delivered to the
sheriff. It shall require him to attach the lands, tenements, goods, chattels, stocks,
or interest in stocks, rights, credits, moneys, and effects of the defendant in his
county not exempt by law from being applied to the payment of the plaintiff's
claim, or so much thereof as will satisfy the plaintiff's claim, to be stated in the
order as in the affidavit, and the probable costs of the action, not exceeding fifty
dollars.

SEC. 202 (202). Orders of attachment may be issued to the sheriffs of different
counties ; and several of them may, at the option of the plaintiff, be issued at the
same time or in succession ; but such only as has been executed shall be taxed in the
costs, unless otherwise directed by the court.

SEC. 203 (203). The return day of the order of attachment, when issued at the
commencement of the action, shall be the same as that of the summons; when is
sued afterwards, it shall be twenty days after it issued.

SEC. 204 (204). When there are several orders of attachment against the same
defendant, they shall be executed in the order in which they are received by the
sheriff.
SEC. 205 (205). The order of attachment shall be executed by the sheriff with
out delay. He shall go to the place where the defendant's property may be
found, and there, in the presence of two residents of the county, declare that by
virtue of said order he attaches said property at the suit of such plaintiff ; and the
officer, with the said residents, who shall be first sworn or affirmed by the officer,
shall make a true inventory and appraisement of all the property attached, which
shall be signed by the officer and residents and returned with the order. Where the
property attached is real property, the officer shall leave with the occupant thereof,
or, if there be no occupant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a copy of the order.
Where it is personal property, and accessible, he shall take the same into his
custody, and hold it subject to the order of the court.

SEC. 206 (206). The sheriff shall deliver the property attached to the person in
whose possession it was found, upon the execution by such person, in the presence
of the sheriff, of an undertaking to the plaintiff, with one or more sufficient
sureties resident in the county, to the effect that the parties to the same are bound,
in double the appraised value thereof, that the property or its appraised value in
money shall be forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in the action ; but
if it shall appear to the court that any part of said property has been lost or de
stroyed by unavoidable accident, the value thereof shall be remitted to the person
so bound.

SEC. 207 (207). When the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney shall make oath in
writing that he has a good reason to and does believe that any person or corpora
tion, to be named, and within the county where the action is brought, has property
of the defendant (describing the same) in his possession, if the officer can not
come at such property, he shall leave with such garnishee a copy of the order of
attachment with a written notice that he appear in court, at the return of the order
of attachment, and answer, as provided in section two hundred and twenty-one.
SEC. 208 (208). The copy of the order and the notice shall be served upon the
garnishee as follows : if he be a person, they shall be served upon him personally
or left at his usual place of residence ; if a corporation, they shall be left with the
president or other officer of the same, or a managing agent thereof.

SEC. 209 (209). Different attachments of the same property may be made by the
same officer, and one inventory and appraisement shall be sufficient, and it shall
not be necessary to return the fame with more than one order.

SEC. 210 (210). Where the property is under attachment, it shall be attached
under subsequent orders as follows : First—If it be real property, it shall be
attached in the manner prescribed in section two hundred and five. Second—If it
be personal property, it shall be attached as in the hands of the officer, and subject
to any previous attachment. Third—If the same person or corporation be made a
garnishee, a copy of the order and notice shall be left with him in the manner
prescribed in section two hundred and seven.

SEC. 211 (211). The officer shall return upon every order of attachment what he
has done under it. The return must show the property attached and the time
it was attached. When garnishees are served, their names and the time each was
served must be stated. The officer shall also return with the order all undertak
ings given under it.

SEC. 212 (212). An order of attachment binds the property attached from the
time of service, and the garnishees shall stand liable to the plaintiff in attachment
for 'all property, moneys, and credits in his hands, or due from him to the defend
ant, from the time he is served with the written notice mentioned in section two
hundred and seven ; but where the property is attached in the hands of a con
signee, his lien thereon shall not be affected by the attachment.

SEC. 213 (213). The court or any judge thereof, during vacation, may, on the
application of the plaintiff and on good cause shown, appoint a receiver, who shall
take an oath faithfully to discharge his duty and shall give an undertaking to the
state of Nebraska in such sum as the court or judge may direct and with such
security as shall be approved by the clerk of the court for the faithful performance
of his duty as such receiver, and to pay over all money and account for all prop
erty which may come into his hands by virtue of his appointment, at such times
and in such manner as the court may direct.
SEC. 214 (214). Such receiver shall take possession of all notes, due bills, books
of account, accounts, and all other evidences of debt, that have been taken by the
sheriff or other officer as the property of the defendant in attachment, and shall
proceed to settle and collect the same. For that purpose, he may commence and
maintain actions in his own name as such receiver; but in such actions no right
of defense shall be impaired or affected.
SEC. 215 (215). Such receiver shall forthwith give notice of his appointment to
the persons indebted to the defendant in attachment. The notice shall be written
or printed, and shall be served on the debtor or debtors by copy personally or by
copy left at the residence; and from the date of such service the debtors shall
stand liable to the plaintiff in attachment for the amount of moneys and credits in
their hands, or due from them to the defendant in attachment, and shall account
therefor to the receiver.
SEC. 216 (216). Such receiver shall, when required, report his proceedings to
the court, and hold all moneys collected by him and property which may come
into his hands subject to the order of the court.
SEC. 217 (217).. Where a receiver isnot appointed by the court or a judge thereof,
as provided in section two hundred and thirteen, the sheriff or other officer attach
ing the property shall have all the powers and perform all the duties of a receiver
appointed by the court or judge, and may, if necessary, commence and maintain
actions in his own name as such officer. He may be required to give security other
than his official undertaking.

SEC. 218 (218). The court shall make proper orders for the preservation of the
property during the pendency of the suit. It may direct the sale of property
when, because of its perishable nature or the costs of keeping it, a sale will be for
the benefit of the parties. In vacation, such sale may be ordered by the judge of
the court. The sale shall be public, after such advertisement as is prescribed for
the sale of like property on execution, and shall be made in such manner, and upon
such terms of credit, with security, as the court or judge, having regard to the
probable duration of the action, may direct. The proceeds, if collected by the
sheriff, with all the moneys received by him from garnishees, shall be held and paid
over by him under the same requirement and responsibilities of himself and sure
ties as are provided in respect to money deposited in lieu of bail.
SEC. 219 (219). If the defendant, or any other person on his behalf, at any time
before judgment, cause an undertaking to be executed to the plaintiff by one or
more sureties resident in the county, to be approved by the court, in double the
amount of the plaintiff's claim as stated in his affidavit, to the effect that the de
fendant shall perform the judgment of the court, the attachment in such action
shall be discharged and restitution made of any property taken under it or the
proceeds thereof. Such undertaking shall also discharge the liability of a gar
nishee in such action for any property of the defendant in his hands.

SEC. 220 (220). The undertaking mentioned in the last section may, in vacation,
be executed in the presence of the sheriff having the order of attachment in his
hands, or, after the return of the order, before the clerk, with the same effect as if
executed in court, the sureties in either case to be approved by the officer before
whom the undertaking is executed.
SEC. 221 (221). The garnishee shall appear as follows: if the order of attach
ment be returned during a term of court, he shall appear at that term ; if the order
be returned during vacation, he shall appear at the term next after its return. He
shall appear and answer, under oath, all the questions put to him touching the
property of every description and credits of the defendant in his possession or
under his control, and he shall disclose truly the amount owing by him to the de
fendant, whether due or not, and, in case of a corporation, any stock therein held
by or for the benefit of the defendant, at or after the service of notice; * but a
garnishee shail not be required to appear in this or in any other case unless there is
tendered to him the same fees as a witness is entitled to in the suit in which the
garnishee proceedings are had, and such fees may be taxed and collected in the
same manner as other cosis in such proceedings.

SEC. 222 (222). A garnishee may pay the money owing to the defendant by him
to the sheriff having the order of attachment, or into court. He shall be dis
charged from liability to the defendant for any money so paid not exceeding the
plaintiff's claim. He shall not be subjected to costs beyond those caused by his re
sistance of the claim against him ; and if he disclose the property in his hands, or
the true amount owing by him, and deliver or pay the same according to the order
< ' the court, he shall be allowed his costs.
SEC. 223 (223). If the garnishee do not appear in court and answer, as required
by section two hundred and twenty-one, the court may proceed against him by at
tachment as for a contempt.
SEC. 224 (224). If the garnishee appear and answer, and it is discovered on his
examination that, at or after the service of the order of attachment and notice
upon him, he was possessed of any property of the defendant or was indebted to
him, the court may order the delivery of such property and the payment of the
amount owing by the garnishee into the court; or the court may permit the gar
nishee to retain the property or the amount owing, upon the execution of an un
dertaking to the plaintiff by one or more sufficient sureties to the effect that the
amount shall be paid or the property forthcoming as the court may direct.
SEC. 225 (225). If the garnishee fail to appear and answer, of if he appear and
answer and his disclosure is not satisfactory to the plaintiff, or if he fail to comply
with the order of the court, or deliver the property and pay the money owing into
court, or give the undertaking required in the preceding section, the plaintiff may
proceed against him in an action by filing a petition in his own name, as in other
cases, and causing a summons to be issued upon it ; and thereupon such proceed
ings may be had as in other actions, and judgment may be rendered in favor of the
plaintiff for the amount of the property and credits of every kind of the defend
ant in the possession of the garnishee, and for what shall appear to be owing by
him to the defendant, and for the costs of the proceedings against the garnishee.
If the plaintiff proceed aerainst the garnishee by action for the cause that his dis
closure was unsatisfactory, unless it appear in the action that such disclosure was
incomplete, the plaintiff shall pay the costs of such action. The judgment in this
action may be enforced as judgments in other cases. When the claims of the
plaintiff in attachment are satisfied, the defendant in attachment may, on motion,
be substituted as the plaintiff in the judgment.

SEC. 226 (226). Final judgment shall not be rendered against the garnishee
until the action against the defendant in attachment has been determined ; and if in
such action judgment be rendered for the defendant in attachment, the garnishee
shall be discharged and recover costs. If the plaintiff shall recover against the
defendant in attachment, and the garnishee shall deliver up all the property,
moneys, and credits of the defendant in his possession and pay all the moneys from
him due as the court may order, the garnishee shall be discharged, and the costs
of the proceedings against him shall be paid out of the property and moneys so
surrendered, or as the court may think right and proper.

SEC. 227 (227). If judgment.be rendered in the action for the defendant, the
attachment shall be discharged, and the property attached, or its proceeds, shall
be returned to him.
SEC. 228 (228). If judgment be rendered for the plaintiff, it shall be satisfied
as follows : so much of the property remaining in the hands of the officer, after
applying the moneys arising from the sale of perishable property, and so much,
of the personal property and lands and tenements, if any, whether held by legal
or equitable title, as may be necessary to satisfy the judgment, shall be sold by
order of the court, under the same restrictions and regulations as if the same had
been levied on by execution ; and the money arising therefrom, with the amount
which may be recovered from the garnishee, shall be applied to satisfy the judg
ment and costs. If there be not enough to satisfy the same, the judgment shall
stand, and execution may issue thereon, for the residue, in all respects, as in other
cases. Any surplus of the attached property, or its proceeds, shall be returned to
the defendant.
SEC. 229 (229). The court may compel the delivery to the sheriff, for sale of
any of the attached property for which an undertaking may have been given, and
may procc :d summarily on such undertaking to enforce the delivery of the prop
erty or the payment of such sum as may be due upon the undertaking, by rules and
attachments, as in cases of contempt.
SEC. 230 (230). The court may order the sheriff to repossess himself, for the
purpose of selling it, of any of the attached property which may have passed out
of his hands without having been sold or converted into money ; and the sheriff
shall, under such order, have the same power to take the property as he would have
under an order of attachment.

SEC. 231 (231). If personal property which has been attached, be claimed by
any person other than the defendant, it shall be the duty of the officer to have the
validity of such claim tried, and such proceedings must be had thereon, with the
like effect, as in case the property had been seized upon execution, and claimed
by a third person.
SEC. 232 (232). Where several attachments are executed on the same property,
or the same persons are made garnishees, the court, on the motion of any of the
plaintiffs, may order a reference to ascertain and report the amounts and priorities
of the several attachments.
SEC. 233 (233). From the time of the issuing of the order of attachment, the
court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction and to have control of all sub
sequent proceedings under this chapter ; and if, after the issuing of the order, the
defendant, being a person, should die, or a corporation and its charter should ex
pire by limitation, forfeiture, or otherwise, the proceeding shall be carried on ; but
in a!l such cases other than where the defendant was a foreign corporation his
le^al representatives shall be made parties to the action.

SEC. 234 (234). The defendant may, at any time before judgment, after reason
able notice to the plaintiff, move the court for additional security on the part of
the plaintiff; and if, .on such motion, the court is satisfied that the surety in the
plaintiff's undertaking has removed from this state, or is not sufficient for the
amount thereof, it may vacate the order of attachment and direct restitution of
any property taken under it, unless in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court,
sufficient security is given by the plaintiff.

SEC. 235 (235). The defendant may, at any time before judgment, upon reason
able notice to the plaintiff, move to discharge an attachment, as to the whole or a part of the property attached. 

SEC. 236 (236). If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the defend
ant, or papers and evidence in the case, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose
the same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which the order of
attachment was made. 
SEC. 1210 (1210). That whenever an attachment shall issue to any other county than the
one in which the action is brought, and any lands shall be attached by virtue
thereof, it shall be the duty of the officers attaching said property to make out a
true copy of said order of attachment, and file the same in the office of the recorder
of deeds of the county where the lands so attached are situated. He shall also cer-
tify upon said copy of said order of attachment that the same is a true copy of
the original writ received by him, and he shall also endorse thereon the descrip
tion of the property attached, and the time when the same was attached, under
and by virtue of the original order of attachment.
SEC. 1211 (1211). It shall be the duty of the recorder of deeds of the county, when the
copy of the order of attachment has been filed as provided in this act, to record
the same in the miscellaneous record, together with the certificate of the officers
heretofore mentioned, and such copy of said orders of attachment and certificate
so filed and recorded shall be sufficient notice to subsequent purchasers of said
land so attached as aforesaid.

SEC. 1212 (1212). If the order of attachment be discharged it shall be the duty of the clerk
of the court in which the action is brought to certify that fact, together with the
time when the order was discharged, to the recorder of deeds in whose office the
copy of said order has been recorded as aforesaid, whereupon such recorder shall
file such certificate and write across the record of such copy the word "discharged,"
and also the time of discharge as shown in said certificate.

SEC. 1213 (1213). The officer, for making out said copy of the order of attachment, and
the clerk, for recording the same, shall receive such compensation as is now al
lowed by law for similar services, to be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered
by the court.

SEC. 1214 (1214). That when an order discharging an order of attachment is made, and
any party affected thereby shall execpt thereto, the court or judge shall fix the
number of days, not to exceed twenty, in which such party may file his petition in
error, during which time the property attached shall be held by the sheriff or other
officer, during which period the petition in error shall be filed, and the party filing
the same shall give an undertaking to the adverse party, with surety or sureties
to be approved by the court, in double the amount of the appraised value of the
property attached, conditioned to pay said adverse party all damages sustained
by such party in consequence of the filing of said petition in error, in the event
that such order of attachment shall be discharged by the court, in which said peti
tion in error shall be filed, as having been unlawfully obtained.

SEC. 1215 (1215). The original action shall proceed to trial and judgment in every other
respect as though no writ of error had been prosecuted.

SEC. 237 (237). A creditor may bring an action on a claim before it is due and
have an attachment against the property of the debtor, in the following cases:
First—Where a debtor has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of his property,
with the fraudulent intent to cheat or defraud his creditors, or to hinder or delay
them in the collection of their debts. Second—Where he is about to make such
sale, conveyance, or disposition of his property with such fraudulent intent.
Third—Where he is about to remove his property, or a material part thereof, with
the intent or to the effect of cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of hindering
and delaying them in the collection of their debts.

SEC. 238 (238). The attachment authorized by the last section may be granted
by the court in which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, or by the pro
bate judge of the county; but before such action shall be brought or such attach
ment shall be granted the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney shall make an oath in
writing showing the nature and amount of the plaintiff's claim, that it is just, when
the same shall become due, and the existence of some one of the grounds for at
tachment enumerated in the preceding section.

SEC. 239 (239). If the court or judge refuse to grant an order of attachment,
the action shall be dismissed, but without prejudice to a future action; and in all
such actions application for an attachment must be made.

SEC. 240 (240). The order of the court or judge granting the attachment shall
specify the amount for which it is allowed, not exceeding a sum sufficient to
satisfy the plaintiff's claim and the probable costs of the action.
SEC. 241 (241). The order of attachment, as granted by the court or judge, shall
not be issued by the clerk until there has been executed in his office such undertak
ing on the part of the plaintiff as is directed by section two hundred.
SEC. 242 (242). The plaintiff in such action shall not have judgment on his claim
before it becomes due, and the proceedings on attachment may be conducted with
out delay.
SEC. 243 (243). The proceedings in the first article of this chapter subsequent
to section two hundred shall, so far as they are applicable, regulate the attachments
authorized by this article.
SEC. 244 (244). In all cases where an execution issued upon any judgment of a
court of record, or of a justice of the peace, shall be returned by the officer in whose
hands the same was placed for service unsatisfied for want of sufficient property
whereof to levy and collect the same, and the judgment creditor in such execution,
his agent, or attorney shall file an affidavit in the office of the clerk of the court
or justice of the peace, from which said execution issued, that he has good reason
to and does believe that any person or corporation (naming them) have property
of and are indebted to the judgment debtor, the said clerk or justice of the peace
shall issue a summons as in other cases, requiring such person or corporation to
appear in court and answer such interrogatories as shall be propounded to him,
it, or them, touching the goods, chattels, rights, and credits of the said judgment
debtor in his, its, or their possession or control.

SEC. 245 (245). The summons shall be made returnable, and the said persons or
corporations shall be required to appear, as in ordinary cases of summons [1067],
and thereafter like proceedings shall be had therein, and said garnishees shall be
held liable in all respects as in cases of garnishees before judgment.
SEC. 246 (246). The summons shall be served as a summons in an original action
is served [1069 et seq.] ; the said persons or corporations so summoned shall be
liable to the judgment creditor in said execution for all property, moneys, and
credits in his, its, or their hands, or due from him, it, or them to the judgment
debtor in said execution, at the time of, and which may come into his, its, or their
hands or control after the service of said summons.
SEC. 247 (247). No proceedings against such garnishee or garnishees shall be
quashed, or such garnishee or garnishees discharged, by reason of any informality
or irregularity merely of the affidavit or summons provided for in this article.
SEC. 248 (248). In cases where the garnishee, in answering such interrogatories,
shall disclose that he has property in his posession or under his control belonging
to the defendant or defendants in execution, the court shall order the same to be
taken and sold by the officers upon execution, as in other cases.
SEC. 249 (249). In cases where the garnishee, in answering such interrogatories,
shall disclose that he is indebted to the defendant in execution, the court shall order
the garnishee to pay over the amount found to be due from said garnishee to the
defendant in execution, which amount shall be collected by execution, as in other
cases, as near as may be, and such amount, when paid or collected, shall be credited
on the original judgment, and the garnishee shall be credited for the amount so
paid or collected.

SEC. 250 (250). The injunction provided by this code is a command to refrain
from a particular act. It may be the final judgment in an action or may be al
lowed as a provisional remedy, and when so allowed it shall be by order. The
writ of injunction is abolished.

SEC. 251 (251). When it appears by the petition that the plaintiff is entitled to
the relief demanded, and such relief or any part thereof consists in restraining the
commission or continuance of some act, the commission or continuance of which
during the litigation would produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintiff, or
when, during the litigation, it appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or
is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the
plaintiff's rights respecting the subject of the action and tending to render the
judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such
act. It may also be granted in any case where it is specially authorized by statute.

SEC. 252 (252). The injunction may be granted at the time of commencing thq
action or at any time afterward, before judgment by fhe supreme court or any
judge thereof, the district court or arty judge thereof, or, in the absence from the
county of said judges, by the probate judge thereof, upon it appearing satisfactory
to the court or judge, by the affidavit of the plaintiff or his agent, that the plaintiff
is entitled thereto.

SEC. 253 (253). If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant, or any
party to the suit, should be heard before granting the injunction, it may direct a
reasonable notice to be given to such party to attend for su:h purpose at a specified
time and place, and may, in the meantime, restrain such party.
SEC. 254 (254). An injunctioiKshall not be granted against a party who has
answered, unless upon notice ; but such party may be restrained until the decision
of the application for an injunction. 
SEC. 255 (255). No injunction, unless provided by special statute, shall operate
until the party obtaining the same shall give an undertaking, executed by one or
more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the clerk of the court granting such in
junction, in an amount to be fixed by the court or judge allowing the same, to
secure to the party enjoined the damages he may sustain, if it be finally decided
that the injunction ought not to have been granted.

SEC. 256 (256). The order of injunction shall be addressed to the party enj'oined.
shall state the injunction, and shall be issued by the clerk. Where the injunction
is allowed at the commencement of the action, the clerk shall endorse upon the
summons "injunction allowed," and it shall not be necessary to issue the order of
injunction ; nor shall it be necessary to issue the same where notice of the applica
tion therefor has been given to the party enjoined. The service of the summons
so endorsed, or the notice of the application for an injunction, shall be notice of its
allowance.

SEC. 257 (257). Where the injunction is allowed during litigation and without
notice of the application therefor, the order of injunction shall be issued, and the
sheriff forthwith serve the same upon each party enjoined, in the manner pre
scribed for serving a summons [1069 et seq.\, and make return thereof without
delay.

SEC. 258 (258). An injunction binds the party from the time he has notice thereof
and the undertaking required by the applicant therefor is executed.
SEC. 259 (259). No injunction shall be granted by a judge, after a motion
therefor has been overruled on the merits of the application by his court; and
where it has been refused by the court in which the action is brought, or a judge
thereof, it shall not be granted to the same applicant by a court of inferior juris
diction or any judge thereof.
SEC. 260 (260). An injunction granted by a judge may be enforced as the act of
the court. Disobedience of an injunction may be punished as a contempt by the
court, or by any judge who might have granted it in vacation. An attachment
may be issued by the court or judge, upon being satisfied by affidavit of the
breach of the injunction, against the party guilty of the same; and he may be re
quired, in the discretion of the court or judge, to pay a fine not exceeding two
•hundred dollars, for the use of the county, to make immediate restitution to the
party injured, and give further security to obey the injunction; or, in default
thereof, he may be committed to close custody, until he shall fully comply with
such requirements, or be otherwise legally discharged.

SEC. 261 (261). A party enjoined may, at any time before judgment, upon rea
sonable notice to the party who has obtained the injunction, move the court for
additional security : and if it appear that the surety in the undertaking has removed
from the state, or is insufficient, the court may vacate the injunction, unless in a
reasonable time sufficient security be given.
SEC. 262 (262). On the hearing of an application for an injunction, each party
may read affidavits. All affidavits sh,all be filed.
SEC. 263 (263). If the injunction be granted without notice, the defendant, at
any time before the trial, may apply, upon notice, to the court in which the action
is brought, or any judge thereof, to vacate or modify the same. The application
may be made upon the petition and affidavits upon which the injunction is granted,
or upon affidavits on the part of the party enjoined, with or without answer. The
order of the judge allowing, dissolving, or modifying an injunction shall be re
turned to the office of the clerk of the court in which the action is brought and
recorded and obeyed as if made by the court.

SEC. 264 (264). If the application be made upon affidavits on the part of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits or
other evidence, in addition to that on which the injimction was granted.
SEC. 265 (265). A defendant may obtain an injunction upon an answer in the
nature of a counter-claim. He shall proceed in the manner prescribed in this chapter.

SEC. 1245 (1245). That in case of the dissolution or modification by any court, or any
judge at chambers, of any temporary order of injunction which has been or may
hereafter be granted, the court or judge so dissolving or modifying said order of
injunction shall, at the same time, fix a reasonable sum as the amount of a superse
deas bond, which the person or persons applying for said injunction may give,
and prevent the doing of the act or acts, the commission of which was, or may be
sought to be restrained by the injunction so dissolved and modified.

SEC. 1246 (1246). Such supersedeas bond shall be executed on or before twenty (20) days
from the time of the order dissolving or modifying such injunction, shall be signed
by one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the clerk of the court, and
shall be conditioned that the party or parties who obtained such injunction shall
pay to the defendant, or defendants, all damages which he or they shall sustain by
reason of said injunction, if it be finally decided that such injunction ought not to
have been granted.

SEC. 1247 (1247). Such supersedeas bond shall stay the doing of the act or acts sought to
be restrained by the suit, and continue such injunction in force until the case is
heard and finally determined by the judgment, decree, or final order of the court in
term time. 

SEC. 266 (266). A receiver may be appointed by the supreme court or the dis
trict court, or by the judge of either, in the following cases : First—In an action
by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of property, or by a creditor to sub
ject any property or fund to his claim, or between partners or others jointly owning
or interested in any property or fund, on the application of any party to the suit,
when the property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially in
jured. Second—In an action for the foreclosure of a mortgage, when the mort
gaged property is in danger of being lost, removed or materially injured, or is
probably insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt. Third—After judgment, or
decree to carry the same into execution, or to dispose of the property according to
the decree or judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal.
Fourth—In all cases provided for by special statutes. Fifth—In all other cases
where receivers have heretofore been appointed by the usages of courts of equity.

SEC. 267 (267). No receiver shall be appointed except in a suit actually com
menced and pending, and after notice to all parties to be affected thereby, of the
time and place of the application, the names of the proposed receiver, and of his
proposed sureties, and of the proposed sureties of the applicant. Such notice shall
state upon what papers the application is based and be served upon the adverse
party or his solicitor at least five days before the proposed hearing, and one addi
tional day for every thirty miles of travel from the place of serving the notice to
the place where the application is to be made, by the usually traveled route, or
shall be published in the same manner as notices of the pendency of suits to non
resident defendants.

SEC. 268 (268). Should the delay occasioned by the giving the notice provided
for in the last preceding section be hazardous to the rights of any party, the court
or judge may, by order, direct the sheriff of the county in which such action is
pending to take temporary possession of the property, and shall appoint an early
day for the hearing of the application, and if at such hearing the application is re
fused, restitution snail be made of the property to the party from whom the same
was taken.

SEC. 269 (269). Every order appointing a receiver shall require the applicant to
give a good and sufficient bond, conditioned to pay all damages which the other
parties to the suit or any of them may sustain by reason of the appointment of a
receiver, in case it shall be finally decided that the order ought not to have been
granted, and shall also require the receiver to give a bond conditioned to faithfully
discharge his duties as receiver and obey all orders of the court. The said bonds
shall each run to the defendant and all adverse parties in interest, and be for the
use of any party to the suit, and be in a penal sum equal to double the value of the
property in question, and be executed by one surety where such surety is an incor
porated surety company authorized by the laws of this state to transact such busi
ness, and by two or more sureties where such sureties are natural persons, to be
approved by the court or judge making the appointment, and be filed in the office
of the clerk of the district court ; nor shall the same be considered executed until
they are so filed.
SEC. 270 (270). If a complainant shall desire the appointment of a receiver at
the commencement of the action, he shall pray such appointment in his bill. If the
occasion for a receiver shall arise while the suit is pending, the application shall be
made by a petition entitled in the cause, signed and verified by the applicant, and
setting forth the facts and circumstances making such appointment necessary or
proper.
SEC. 271 (271). Any party to the suit may, upon the hearing of the application,
show, by affidavit or otherwise, objections to the proposed sureties and to the
proposed receiver, and what is the value of the property to be taken possession of,
and that a receiver ought not to be appointed. He may also nominate a person to
be receiver, giving at the same time the names of his proposed sureties. No person
shall be appointed receiver who is party, solicitor, counsel, or in any manner inter
ested in the suit.
SEC. 272 (272). Every order appointing a receiver shall contain special direc
tions in respect to its powers and duties, and upon application of any party to the
suit, after due notice thereof, such further directions may be made in that behalf
by the court or judge as may in the further progress of the cause become proper.
SEC. 273 (273). Every receiver shall be considered the receiver of any party to
the suit, and no others.
SEC. 274 (274). Every order appointing a receiver without the notice provided
for herein shall be void, and every such order heretofore made, under which the
appointee has not possessed himself of the property in question, shall be suspended
until an order shall have been made and the bonds executed and filed in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
SEC. 275 (275). When a decree shall be rendered in a suit in which a receiver
has been appointed, and such decree shall not finally determine the rights of the
parties, any one of them may apply to the court for the possession of the property
and proceeds thereof in the receiver's hands. If such application be resisted, the
mattei may be referred to a master, to take and report to the court the testimony
of the parties. And on the coming in of said report, the court shall, by its order,
award the possession of the property and the proceeds thereof to the party entitled
thereto; and thereupon the receiver shall surrender the property and the proceeds
thereof to such party. All orders appointing receivers, giving them further direc
tions, and disposing of the property, may be appealed to the supreme court in the
same manner as final orders and decrees.

SEC. 276 (276). Whenever, in the exercise of their authority, the court or judge
shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other things, and the order
is disobeyed, the court or judge, in addition to punishing such disobedience as for
contempt, may make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money or thing,
and deposit or deliver it, in conformity with the direction of the court or judge.

SEC. 1259 (1259). Receivers shall receive for their services such compensation as the
court in its discretion may award, subject to the following restrictions : First—Re
ceivers appointed for the purpose of preserving and protecting property pending
litigation, or for the purpose of continuing the business of the debtor or corpora
tion pending litigation, or when financially embarrassed, may be awarded a salary
or lump sum ; Second—Receivers appointed for the purpose of winding up the
affairs of a debtor or corporation, reducing the assets to cash and distributing
them, shall be awarded as compensation for such services a percentage upon the
cash received and properly accounted for by them, which percentage may be in
creased where extraordinary services have been performed, and correspondingly
reduced where the services have not been meritoriously performed.

SEC. 277 (277). Issues arise on the pleadings where a fact or conclusion of law
is maintained by one party and controverted by the other. They are of two kinds :
First—Of law ; Second—Of fact.
SEC. 278 (278). An issue of fact arises: First—Upon a material allegation in
the petition denied by the answer. Second—Upon a set-off or counter-claim pre
sented in the answer and denied by the reply. Third—Upon material new matter
in the answer or reply, which shall be considered as controverted by the opposite
party without further pleading.

SEC. 279 (279). A trial is a judicial examination of the issues, whether of law
or of fact in an action.

SEC. 280 (280). Issues of law must be tried by the court, unless referred as pro
vided in section two hundred and ninety-eight. Issues of fact arising in actions for
the recovery of money, or of specific real or personal property, shall be tried by a
jury unless a jury trial is waived or a reference be ordered as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 281 (281). All other issues of fact shall be tried by the court, subject to its
power to order any issue or issues to be tried by a jury, or referred as provided in
this code 1 1283].
SEC. 1265 (1265). Actions shall be triable at the first term of the court after the issues
therein, by the times fixed for pleading, are or should have been made up; and
when, by the times fixed for pleading, the issues are or should have been made up
during a term, such action shall be triable at that term. When the issues are or
should have been made up, either before or during a term of court, but after the
period for preparing the trial docket of such term, the clerk shall place such actions
on the trial docket of that term.

SEC. 282 (282). The general mode of summoning, impaneling, challenging, and
swearing the jury is not changed by this code.
SEC. 283 (283). When the jury has been sworn the trial shall proceed in the fol
lowing order, unless the court for special reasons otherwise direct: First—The
plaintiff must briefly state his claim, and may briefly state the evidence by which
he expects to sustain it. Second—The defendant must then briefly state his de
fense, and may briefly state the evidence he expects to offer in support of it
Third—The party who would be defeated if no evidence were given on either side
must first produce his evidence ; the adverse party will then produce his evidence.
Fourth—The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence, unless the court,
for good reasons in furtherance of justice, permits them to offer evidence in their
original case. Fifth—When the evidence is concluded, either party may request
instructions to the jury on points of law, which shall be given or refused by the
court; which instructions shall be reduced to writing if either party require it
[See 107 1, Consol. Stat.] Sixth—The parties may then submit or argue the case
to the jury. In the argument, the party required first to produce his evidence
shall have the opening and conclusion. If several defendants having separate de
fenses appear by different counsel, the court shall arrange their relative order.
Seventh—The court may again charge the jury after the argument is concluded.

SEC. 284 (284). Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper for the jury
to have a view of property which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in
which any material fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted in a body,
under the charge of an officer, to the place, which shall be shown to them by some
person appointed by the court for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no
person other than the person so appointed, shall speak to them on any subject con
nected with the trial.
SEC. 285 (285). When the case is finallysubmitted to the jury, they may decide
in court or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they must be kept together in
some convenient place, under the charge of an officer, until they agree upon a
verdict, or are discharged by the court, subject to the discretion of the court to per
mit them to separate temporarily at night and at their meals. The officer having
them under his charge shall not suffer any communication to be made to them, or
make any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict, unless
by order of the court, and he shall not, before the verdict is rendered, communicate
to any person the state of their deliberations or the verdict agreed upon.
SEC. 286 (286). If the jury are permitted to separate either during the trial or
after the case is submitted to them, they shall be admonished by the court that it
is their duty not to converse with or suffer themselves to be addressed by any other
person on the subject of the trial, and that it is their duty not to form or express
any opinion thereon until the cause is finally submitted to them.
SEC. 287 (287). After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a dis
agreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire to be
informed as to any part of the law arising in the case, they may request the officer
to conduct them to the court, where the information upon the point of law shall
be given, and the court may give its recollection as to the testimony on the point in
dispute in the presence of or after notice to the parties or their counsel.
SEC. 288 (288). The jury may be discharged by the court on account of the
sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity requiring their discharge, or by
consent of both parties, or after they have been kept together until it satisfactorily
appears that there is no probability of their agreeing.
SEC. 289 (289). In all cases where the jury are discharged during the trial, or
after the cause is submitted to them, it may be tried again immediately or at a
future time, as the court may direct.

SEC. 290 (290). When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they must be
conducted into court, their names called by the clerk, and the verdict rendered by
the foreman. When the verdict is announced, either party may require the jury
to be polled, which is done by the clerk asking each juror if it is his verdict. If
any one answers in the negative, the jury must again be sent out for further de
liberation.
SEC. 291 (291). The verdict shall be written, signed by the foreman, and read
by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry made whether it is their verdict. If any
juror disagree, the jury must be sent out again ; but if no disagreement be ex
pressed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled, the verdict is complete,
and the jury discharged from the case. If, however, the verdict be defective in
form only, the same may, with the assent of the jury before they are discharged,
be corrected by the court.
SEC. 292 (292). The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general
verdict is that by which they pronounce, generally, upon all or any of the issues
either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which
the jury finds the facts only. It must present the facts as established by the evi
dence, and not the evidence to prove them ; and they must be so presented as that
nothing remains to the court but to draw from them conclusions of law.

SEC. 293 (293). In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real
property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or special verdict. In
all other cases, the court may direct the jury to find a special verdict, in writing-,
upon all or any of the issues ; and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a
general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact to be stated in writing,
and may direct a written finding thereon. The special verdict or finding must be
filed with the clerk and entered on the journal.
SEC. 294 (294). When the special finding of facts is inconsistent with the general
verdict, the tormer controls the latter, and the court may give judgment accord
ingly.

SEC. 295 (295). When, by the verdict, either party is entitled to recover money
of the adverse party, the jury in their verdict must assess the amount of recovery.
SEC. 296 (296). The trial by jury may be waived by the parties in actions arising
on contract, and with the assent of the court, in other actions, in the following
manner: First—By the consent of the party appearing, when the other party fails
to appear at the trial by himself or attorney. Second—By written consent in per
son, or by attorney, filed with the clerk. Third—By oral consent in open court
entered on the journal.
SEC. 297 (297). Upon the trial of questions of fact by the court, it shall not be
necessary for the court to state its finding, except, generally, for the plaintiff or
defendant, unless one of the parties request it, with a view of excepting to the de
cision of the court upon the questions of law involved in the trial ; in which case
the court shall state in writing the conclusions of fact found separately from the
conclusions of law.
SEC. 298 (298). All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact or law. or
both, may be referred, upon the written consent of the parties, or upon their oral
consent in court entered upon the journal.
SEC. 299 (299). When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the appli
cation of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in either of the following
cases : First—Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of
mutual accounts, or where the account is on one side only, and it shall be made to
appear to the court that it is necessary that the party on the other side should be
examined as a witness to prove the account ; in which cases the referees may de di
rected to hear and report upon the whole issue, or upon any specific question of fact
involved therein. Second—Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for
the information of the court before judgment, in cases which may be determined
by the court, or for carrying a judgment into effect. Third—Where a question of
fact, other than upon the pleadings, shall arise upon motion or otherwise, in any
stage of an action.
SEC. 300 (300). The trial before referees is conducted in the same manner as a
trial by the court. They have the same power to summon and enforce the attend
ance of witnesses, to administer all necessary oaths in the trial of the case, and to
grant adjournments, as the court upon such trial. They must state the facts found
and the conclusions of law, separately, and their decision must be given, and may
be excepted to and reviewed in like manner. The report of the referees upon the
whole issue stands as the decision of the court, and judgment may be entered
thereon in the same manner as if the action had been tried by the court. When the
reference is to report the facts, the report has the effect of a special verdict.
SEC. 301 (301). In all cases ofTeference, the parties, except when an infant may
be a party, may agree upon a suitable person or persons, not exceeding three, and
the reference shall be ordered accordingly; and if the parties do not agree, the
court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who shall be free
from exception.
SEC. 302 (302). A reference as provided in this chapter can not be ordered by a
probate court, except by consent of the parties to the reference and referees.
SEC. 303 (303). It shall be the duty of the referees to sign any true exceptions
taken to any order or decision by them made in the case and return the same with
their report to the court making the reference.

SEC. 304 (304). A judge in vacation, upon the written consent of the parties,
may make any order of reference which the court, of which he is a member, could
make in term time. In such case, the order of reference shall be made on the writ
ten agreement of the parties to refer, and shall be filed with the clerk of the court
with the other papers in the case.

SEC. 305 (305). The referees must be sworn or affirmed well and faithfully to
hear and examine the cause, and to make a just and true report therein accordingto
the best of their understanding. The oath may be administered by any person
authorized to take depositions.
SEC. 306 (306). The referees shall be allowed such compensation for their serv
ices as the court may deem just and proper, which shall be taxed as a part of the
costs in the case

SEC. 307 (307). [Definition.] —An exception is an objection taken to a decision
of the court upon a matter of law.
SEC. 308 (308). The party objecting to the decision must except at the<ime the
decision is made, and time may be given to reduce the same to writing as herein
after provided.
SEC. 309 (309). No particular form of exception is required. The exception
must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary to explain it, and no
more, and the whole as briefly as possible.
SEC. 310 (310). Where the decision objected to is entered on the record, and the
grounds of objection appear in the entry, the exception may be taken by the party
causing to be noted, at the end of the decision, that he excepts.
SEC. 311 (311). When the decision is not entered on the record or the grounds of ob
jection do not sufficiently appear in the entry, the party excepting must reduce his
exceptions to writing within fifteen (15) days, or in such time as the court may
direct, not exceeding forty (40) days from the adjournment sine die of the term
of court at which judgment is rendered or at which the motion for a new trial is
ruled on, and submit the same to the adverse party or his attorney of record for
examination and amendment if desired. Such draft must contain all the excep
tions taken upon which the party relies. Within ten days after such submission,
the adverse party may propose amendments thereto and shall return said bill with
his proposed amendments to the other party or his attorney of record. The bill
and proposed amendments must, within ten days thereafter, be presented by the
party seeking the settlement of the bill to the judge who heard or tried the case,
upon five (5) days' notice to the adverse party, or his attorney of record, at which
time the judge shall settle the bill of exceptions. If no amendments are proposed,
or if proposed and allowed, the proposed bill may be presented with the amend
ments, if any, to the judge for settlement without notice to the adverse party or
his attorney of record. When settled, the bill must be signed by the judge with
his certificate to the effect that the same is allowed. In case of the death of the
judge or when it is shown by affidavit that the judge is prevented by sickness, or
absence from his district, as well as in cases where the parties interested shall
agree upon the bill of exceptions (and shall have attached a written stipulation to
that effect to the bill), it shall be the duty of the clerk to settle and sign the bill in
the same manner as the judge is by this act required to do ; and shall thereupon be
filed with the papers in the case, and have the same force and effect as though
signed by the court. In cases where a party seeking to obtain the allowance of a
bill of exceptions has used due diligence in that behalf, but has failed to secure the
settlement and allowance of the same as herein required, it shall be competent for
the judge who tried the cause, upon due showing of diligence, and not otherwise,
to extend the time herein allowed, but not beyond forty days additional to that
herein provided, making such specific directions in that behalf as shall seem just
to all parties. Provided, That any person or officer, or the presiding officer of any
board or tribunal before whom any proceeding may be had, shall, on request of
any party thereto, settle, sign, and allow a bill of exceptions of all the evidence
offered or given on the hearing of such proceeding. Provided further, This act
shall apply to all cases now pending or hereafter brought.

SEC. 1296 (1296).  This act shall apply to all cases hereafter decided as well as all that
have been already adjudicated by final order or judgment ; and that the provisions
of this act shall apply to actions in equity sought to be appealed to the supreme
court, under the act of March 3, 1873, entitled "An act to provide for appeals in
actions in equity." 

SEC. 312 (312). No exception shall be regarded, unless it is material, and preju
dicial to the substantial rights of the party excepting.
SEC. 313 (313). Exceptions taken to the decision of any court of record may,,
by leave of such court, be withdrawn from the files by the party taking the same,
at any time before proceedings in error are commenced, and before the excep
tions are recorded.
SEC. 314 (314). A new trial is a re-examination in the same court of an issue
of fact after a verdict by a jury, report of a referee, or a decision by the court.
The former verdict, report or decision shall be vacated and a new trial granted on
the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes affecting
materially the substantial rights of such party : First—Irregularity in the proceed
ings of the court, jury, referee or prevailing party, or any order of the court or
referee, or abuse of discretion, by which the party was prevented from having a
fair trial. Second—Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party. Third—Acci
dent or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.
Fourth—Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influence of
passion or prejudice. Fifth—Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery,
whether too large or too small, where the action is upon a contract, or for the in
jury or detention of property. Sixth—That the verdict, report or decision is not
sustained by sufficient evidence, or is contrary to law. Seventh—Newly discov
ered evidence, material for the party applying, which he could not with reason
able diligence have discovered and produced at the trial. Eighth—Error of law
occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party making the application.

SEC. 315 (315). A new trial shall not be granted on account of the smallness-
of damages in an action for an injury to the person or reputation, nor any other
action where the damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained.
SEC. 316 (316). The application for a new trial must be made at the term the
verdict, report, or decision is rendered, and, except for the cause of newly discov
ered evidence, material for the party applying, which he could not with reason
able diligence have discovered and produced at the trial, shall be within three
days after the verdict or decision was rendered, unless unavoidably prevented.
SEC. 317 (317). The application must be by motion upon written grounds, filed
at the time of making the motion. * It shall be sufficient, however, in assigning
the grounds of the motion to assign the same in the language of the statute and
without further or other particularity.* The causes enumerated in subdivisions 2f
3, and 7 of section 314, must be sustained by affidavits showing their truth, and
may be controverted by affidavits.
SEC. 318 (318). Where the grounds for a new trial could not, with reasonable
diligence, have been discovered before, but are discovered after the term at which
the verdict, report of referee or decision was rendered or made, the application
may be made by petition filed as in other cases ; on which a summons shall issue, be
returnable and served, or publication made, as prescribed in section seventy-nine.
The facts stated in the petition shall be considered as denied without answer, and
if the service shall be complete in vacation, the case shall be heard and summarily
decided at the ensuing term. The case shall be placed on the trial docket, and the
witnesses shall be examined in open court, or their depositions taken as in other
cases, but no such petition shall be filed more than one year after the final judg
ment was rendered.

SEC. 319 (319). Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff may claim and
recover any rate of damages to which he may be entitled for the cause of action
established.
SEC. 320 (320). The provisions of this title respecting trials by jury, apply, so
far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court.
SEC. 321 (321). The clerk of the district court shall keep at least eight books, to
be called the appearance docket, the trial docket, the journal, the complete record,
the execution docket, * the fee book, the general index, and the judgment record.
SEC. 322 (322). On the appearance docket, he shall enter all actions in the order
in which they were brought, the date of the summons, the time of the return
thereof by the officer, and his return thereon, the time of filing the petition, and all
subsequent pleadings. * On the general index he shall enter the names of the
parties to every suit, both direct and inverse, with the page and book where all
proceedings in such action may be found. The judgment record shall contain the
judgment debtor and the judgment creditor, arranged alphabetically, the date of
the judgment, the amount of the same, and the amount of costs, with the page and
book where the same may be found. Transcripts of judgments from justices of
the peace, or courts of probate, filed in the district court shall be entered upon said
judgment record; and whenever any judgment is paid off apd discharged, the
clerk shall enter such fact upon the judgment record in a column provided for
that purpose.

SEC. 323 (323). The trial docket shall be made out by the -clerk of the court at
least twelve days before the first day of each term of the court ; and the actions
shall be set for particular days in the order in which the issues were made up,
whether of law or of fact, and so arranged that the cases set for each day shall
be tried as nearly as may be on that day. For the purpose of arranging said
docket, an issue shall be considered as made up when either party is in default of
a pleading. If the defendant fails to answer or demur, the cause for the purpose
of this section shall be deemed to be at issue upon questions of fact, but in every
such case the plaintiff may move for and take such judgment as he is entitled to,
on the defendant's default, on or after the day on which said action shall be set
for trial. No witnesses shall be subpoenaed in any case while the cause stands upon
issue of law ; and whenever the court shall regard the demurrer in any case as
frivolous, and put in for delay only, no leave to answer or reply shall be given,
unless upon payment of all costs then accrued in the action ; Provided, That when
the number of actions to be docketed shall exceed three hundred the judge or
judges of the district court for the county may by rule or order classify them in
such manner as they may deem expedient, and cause them to be placed according
to such classification upon different dockets; and the respective dockets may be
proceeded with and causes thereon tried, heard, or otherwise disposed of, concur
rently by one or more of the judges ; and provision may be made by rule of court
that issues of fact shall not be for trial at any term when the number of pending
actions shall exceed three hundred, except upon such previous notice of trial as
may be prescribed thereby.
SEC. 324 (324). The trial of an issue of fact, and the assessment of damages
in any case, shall be in the order in which they are placed on the trial docket, un
less, by consent of parties, or the order of the court, they are continued, or placed
at the heel of the docket, or temporarily postponed. The time of hearing all
other cases shall be in the order in which they are placed on the docket, unless the
court in its discretion shall otherwise direct. The court may in its discretion
hear at any time a motion, and may by rule prescribe the time for hearing mo
tions, and provide for dismissing actions without prejudice for want of prose
cution.

SEC. 327 (327). The clerk shall make out a copy of the trial docket and other
dockets, if any, for the use of the bar before the first day of the term of court.
SEC. 1311 (1311). That each clerk of the district court is required to keep for the
business of his office a book to be called the incumbrance book, in which the
sheriff shall enter a statement of the levy of each attachment or execution on real
estate, as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 1312 (1312). No levy of attachment or execution on real estate issued from any
other county shall be notice to a subsequent vendee or incumbrancer in good faith,
unless the sheriff shall have entered in a book, which shall be kept in the office of
the clerk of the district court by such clerk and called the "incumbrance book,"
a statement that the land, describing it, has been so attached or levied on, the
cause in which it was so attached, and when it was done, signed by such sheriff.
Such book shall be open, as other books kept by such clerk, to public inspection.


SEC. 328 (328). Every human being of sufficient capacity to understand the
obligation of an oath, is a competent witness in all cases, civil and criminal, except
as otherwise herein declared. The following persons shall be incompetent to
testify : First—Persons of unsound mind at the time of their production. Second
—Indians and negroes who appear incapable of receiving just impressions of the
facts respecting which they are examined, or of relating them intelligently and
truly. Third—Husband and wife, concerning any communication made by one to
the other during the marriage, whether called as a witness while that relation
subsists or afterward. Fourth—An attorney, concerning any communication made
to him by his client in that relation or his advice thereon, without the client's con
sent in open court or in writing produced in court. Fifth—A clergyman or priest,
concerning any confession made to him in his professional character in the course
of discipline enjoined by the church to which he belongs, without the consent of
the person making the confession.
SEC. 329 (329). No person having a direct legal interest in the result of any
civil action or proceeding, when the adverse party is the representative of a de
ceased person, shall be permitted to testify to any transaction or conversation had
between the deceased person and the witness, unless the evidence of the deceased
person shall have been taken and read in evidence by the adverse party in regard
to such transaction or conversation, or unless such representative snail have intro
duced a witness who shall have testified in regard to such transaction or conversa
tion, in which case the person having such direct legal interest may be examined
in regard to the facts testified to by such deceased person or such witness, but
shall not be permitted to further testify in regard to such transaction or
conversation.

SEC. 330 (330). Facts which have heretofore caused the exclusion of testimony,
may still be shown for the purpose of lessening its credibility.
SEC. 331 (331). The husband can in no case be a witness against the wife, nor
the wife against the husband, except in a criminal proceeding for a crime com
mitted by the one against the other, but they may in all criminal prosecutions be
witnesses for each other.

SEC. 332 (332). Neither husband nor wife can be examined in any case as to
any communication made by the one to the other while married, nor shall they,
after the marriage relation ceases, be permitted to reveal, in testimony, any such
. communication made while the marriage subsisted.

SEC. 333 (333). No practicing attorney, counselor, physician, surgeon, minister
of the gospel, or priest of any denomination, shall be allowed, in giving testimony,
to disclose any confidential communication, properly intrusted to him in his pro
fessional capacity, and necessary and proper to enable him to discharge the func
tions of his office according to the usual course of practice or discipline.
SEC. 334 (334). The prohibitions in the preceding sections do not apply tr>
cases where the party in whose favor the respective provisions are enacted,
I waives the rights thereby conferred.

SEC. 335 (335). A public officer can not be examined as to communications
made to him in official confidence, when the public interests would suffer by the
disclosure.
SEC. 336 (336). A witness is not excused from answering a question upon the
mere ground that he would be thereby subject to a civil liability. 
SEC. 337 (337). But when the matter sought to be elicited would tend to render
him criminally liable, or to expose him to public ignominy, he is not compelled
to answer, except as provided in the next section.
SEC. 338 (338). A witness may be interrogated as to his previous conviction for
a felony. But no other proof of such conviction is competent except the record
thereof.
SEC. 339 (339). When part of an act, declaration, conversation, or writing is
g;iven in evidence by one party, the whole on the same subject may be inquired
into by the other; thus, when a letter is read, all other letters on the same subject
between the same parties may be given. And when a detached act, declaration,
conversation or writing, is given in evidence, any other act, declaration or writing
which is necessary to make it fully understood, or to explain the same, may also
be given in evidence.
SEC. 340 (340). When an instrument consists partly of written and partly of
printed form, the former controls the latter, where the two are inconsistent.
SEC. 341  (341 ). When the terms of an agreement have been intended in a differ
ent sense by the parties to it, that sense is to prevail against either party in which
he had reason to suppose the other understood it
SEC. 342 (342). Historical works, books of science or art, and published maps
or charts, when made by persons indifferent between the parties, are presumptive
evidence of facts of general notoriety or interest.
SEC. 343 (343). When a subscribing witness is absent from the county in which
the action is pending, denies or docs not recollect the execution of the instrument
to which his name is subscribed as such witness, its execution may be proved by
other evidence.

SEC. 344 (344). Evidence respecting handwriting may be given by comparisons
made, by experts or by the jury, with writings of the same person which are
proved to be genuine.
SEC. 345 (345). The entries and other writings of a person deceased, made at
or near the time of the transaction, and in a position to know the facts therein
stated, are presumptive evidence of such facts, when the entry was made against
the interest of the person so making it or when made in a professional capacity or
in the ordinary course of professional conduct, or when made in the performance
of a duty specially enjoined by law.
SEC. 346 (346). Books of account, containing charges by one party against the
other, made in the ordinary course of business, are receivable in evidence only
under the following circumstances, subject to all just exceptions as to their credi
bility : First—The books must show a continuous dealing with persons generally,
or several items of charges at different times against the other party in the same
book. Second—It must be shown, by the party's oath or otherwise, that they are
his books of original entries. Third—It must be shown, in like manner, that the
charges were made at or near the time of the transaction therein entered, unless
satisfactory reasons appear for not making such proof. Fourth—The chargesmust
also be verified by the party or the clerk who made the entries, to the effect
that they believe them just and true, or a sufficient reason must be given why the
verification is not made. 

SEC. 347 (347). Every private writing, except a last will and testament, after
being acknowledged or proved and certified in the manner prescribed for the
proof or acknowledgement of conveyances of real property, may be read in evi
dence without further proof.
SEC. 348 (348). The judge of the court is a competent witness for either party,
and may be sworn upon the trial. But in such a case it is in his discretion to order
the trial to be postponed or suspended, and to take place before another judge.

SEC. 349 (349). The usual protest by a notary public, without proof of his sig
nature or notarial seal, is evidence of the dishonor and notice of a bill of ex
change or promissory note.
SEC. 350 (350). The clerks of the several courts and judges of the probate
courts shall, on application of any person having a cause or any matter pending
in court, issue a subpcena for witnesses under the seal of the court, inserting all
the names required by the applicant in one subpcena, which may be served by any
person not interested in the action, or by the sheriff, coroner or constable; but
when served by any person other than a public officer, proof of service shall be
shown by affidavit; but no costs of serving the same shall be allowed, except
when served by an officer.
SEC. 351 (351). The subpcena shall be directed to the person therein named, re
quiring him to attend at a particular time and place, to testify as a witness ; and it
may contain a clause directing a witness to bring with him any book, writing or
other thing under his control, which he is bound by law to produce as evidence.

SEC. 352 (352). When the attendance of a witness before any officer authorized
to take depositions is required, the subpcena shall be issued by such officer.
SEC. 353 (353). The subpcena shall be served either by reading, or by copy de
livered to the witness or left at his usual place of residence; but such copy need
not contain the name of any other witness.
SEC. 354 (354). A witness shall not be obliged to attend for examination on
the trial of a civil action, except in the county of his residence, nor to attend to
give his deposition out of the county where he resides, or where he may be when
the subpcena is served upon him.
SEC. 355 (355). A witness may demand his traveling fees, and fee for one day's
attendance, when the subpcena is served upon him, and if the same be not paid,
the witness shall not be obliged to obey the subpoena. The fact of such demand
and non-payment shall be stated in the return.
SEC. 356 (356). Disobedience of a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn, or to
answer as a witness, or to subscribe a deposition, when lawfully ordered, may be
punished as a contempt of the court or officer by whom his attendance or testi
mony is required.
SEC. 357 (357). When a witness fails to attend in obedience to a subpoena (ex
cept in case of a demand and failure to pay his fees), the court or officer before
whom his attendance is required, may issue an attachment to the sheriff, coroner
or constable of the county, commanding him to arrest and bring the person therein
named before the court or officer, at a time and place to be fixed in the attach
ment, to give his testimony, and answer for the contempt. If the attachment be
not for immediately bringing the witness before the court or officer, a sum may be
fixed in which the witness may give an undertaking with surety for his appear
ance. Such sum shall be endorsed on the back of the attachment, and if no sum
is so fixed and endorsed, it shall be one hundred dollars. If the witness be not
personally served, the court may, by a rule, order him to show cause why attach
ment should not issue against him.

SEC. 358 (358). The punishment for the contempt mentioned in section three
hundred and fifty-six, shall be as follows: When the witness fails to attend in
obedience to the subpoena, (except in case of a demand and failure to pay his
fees), the court or officer may fine the witness in a sum not exceeding fifty dollars.
In other cases, the court or officer may fine the witness in a sum not exceeding
fifty dollars nor less than five dollars, or may imprison him in the county jail,
there to remain until he shall submit to be sworn, to testify, or give his deposition.
The fine imposed by the court shall be paid into the county treasury, and that
imposed by the officer shall be for the use of the party for whom the witness was
subpoenaed. The witness shall also be liable to the party injured for any damages
occasioned by, his failure to attend, or his refusal to be sworn, to testify, or give
his deposition.

SEC. 359 (359). A witness so imprisoned by an officer before whom his deposi
tion is being taken, may apply to a judge of the supreme court, district court, or
probate court, who shall have power to discharge him if it appear that his impris
onment is illegal.

SEC. 360 (360). Every attachment for the arrest or order of commitment to
prison, of a witness by a court or officer, pursuant to this chapter, must be under
the seal of the court or officer, if he have an official seal, and must specify particu
larly the cause of the arrest or commitment; and if the commitment be for refus
ing to answer a question, such question must be stated in the order. Such order
of commitment may be directed to the sheriff, coroner or any constable of the
county where such witness resides or may be at the time, and shall be executed
by committing him to the jail of such county, and delivering a copy of the order
to the jailer.

SEC. 361 (361). A person confined in any prison in this state may, by order of
any court of record, be required to be produced for oral examination in the county
where he is imprisoned; but in all other cases his examination must be by
deposition.
SEC. 362 (362). While a prisoner's deposition is being taken, he shall remain in
the custody of the officer having him in charge, who shall afford reasonable facili
ties for the taking of the deposition.
SEC. 363 (363). A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a county in which he
does not reside, by being served with a summons in such county, while going,
returning, or attending in obedience to a subpoena.
SEC. 364 (364). At the commencement of each day, after the first day, a witness
may demand his fees for that day's attendance in obedience to a subpoena, and if
the same be not paid he shall not be required to remain.

SEC. 365 (365). Before testifying the witness shall be sworn to testify the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. The mode of administering an oath
shall be such as is most binding upon the conscience of the witness.

SEC. 366 (366). The testimony of witnesses may be taken in three modes: First
—By affidavit. Second—By deposition. Third—By oral examination.

SEC. 367 (367). An affidavit is a written declaration under oath, made without
notice to the adverse party.
SEC. 368 (368). A deposition is a written declaration under oath, marie upon no
tice to the adverse party for the purpose of enabling him to attend and crossexamine;
or upon written interrogatories.
SEC. 369 (369). An oral examination is an examination in the presence of the
jury or tribunal which is to decide the fact or act upon it, the testimony being
heard by the jury or tribunal from the lips of the witness.
SEC. 370 (370). An affidavit may be used to verify a pleading, to prove the
service of a summons, notice, or other process, in an action, to obtain a provisional
remedy, an examination of a witness, a stay of proceedings, or upon a motion, and
in any other case permitted by law.

SEC. 371 (371). An affidavit may be made in and out of this state before any
person authorized to take depositions, and must be authenticated in the same way^
except as provided in section one hundred and eighteen
SEC. 372 (372). The deposition of any witness may be used only in the following
cases : First—When the witness does not reside in the county where the action or
proceeding is pending or is sent for trial by change of venue, or is absent there
from. Second—When, from age, infirmity, or imprisonment, the witness is un
able to attend the court, or is dead. Third—When the testimony is required upon
a motion, or in any other case where the oral examination of the witness is
not required.
SEC. 373 (373). Either party may commence taking testimony by depositions, at
any time after service upon the defendant

SEC. 374 (374). Depositions may be taken in this state before a judge or clerk of
the supreme or district court, or before a probate judge, justice of the peace,
notary public, mayor, or chief magistrate of any city or town corporate* or before
a master commissioner, or any person empowered by a special commission ; but
depositions taken in this state, to be used therein, must be taken by an officer or
person whose authority is derived within the state.
SEC. 375 (375). Depositions may be taken out of the state by a judge, justice,
or chancellor of any court of record, a justice of the peace, notary public, mayor
or chief magistrate of any city or town corporate, a commissioner appointed by
the governor of this state to take depositions, or any person authorized by a special
commission from this state.

SEC. 376 (376). The officer before whom depositions are taken must not be a
relative or attorney of either party, or otherwise interested in the event of the
action or proceeding.
SEC. 377 (377). Any court of record of this state, or any judge thereof, is au
thorized to grant a commission to take depositions within or without the state.
The commission must be issued to a person or persons therein named, by the clerk,
under the seal of the court granting the same, and depositions under it must be
taken upon written interrogatories, unless the parties otherwise agree.

SEC. 378 (378). Prior to the taking of any deposition, unless taken under a^
special commission, a written notice specifying the action of proceeding, the name"
of the court or tribunal in which it is to be used, and the time and place of taking
the same, shall be served upon the adverse party, his agent, or attorney of record,
or left at his usual place of abode. The notice shall be served so as to allow the
adverse party sufficient time by the usual route to travel to attend, and one day for
preparation, exclusive of Sundays, and the day of service; and the examination
may, if so stated in the notice be adjourned from day to day. * The notice shall
also specify the names of the witnesses to be examined. And when the place of
taking the depositions shall be out of the state, or more than fifty miles from the
place of trial of the action, the adverse party, within forty-eight hours after the
service of the notice, may serve upon the party taking the deposition, his agent or
attorney of record, written cross-interrogatories to be propounded to any wit
ness, and such last-named party shall cause them to be transmitted to the officer
before whom the deposition is taken, who shall propound them to the witness,
and they shall be answered subject to objections, as in other cases.

SEC. 379 (379). When the party against whom the deposition is to be read is
absent from, or a non-resident of the state, and has no agent or attorney of record
therein, he may be notified of the taking of the deposition by publication. The
publication must be made three consecutive weeks, in some newspaper printed in
the county where the action or proceeding is pending, if there be any printed in
such county, and if not, in some newspaper printed in this state, of general circu
lation in that county. The publication must contain all that is required in a writ
ten notice, and may be proved in the manner prescribed in section eighty.
SEC. 380 (380). The deposition shall be written in the presence of the officer
taking the same, either by the officer, the witness, or some disinterested person,
and subscribed by the witness.

SEC. 381 (381). The deposition so taken shall be sealed up and endorsed with
the title of the cause and the name of the officer taking the same, and by him ad
dressed and transmitted to the clerk of the court where the action or proceeding
is pending. It shall remain under seal until opened by the clerk by order of the
court, or at the request of a party to the action or proceeding, or his attorney.

SEC. 382 (382). Depositions taken pursuant to this article, shall be admitted in
evidence on the trial of any civil action or proceeding pending before any justice
of the peace, mayor or other judicial officer of a city, or town corporate, or before
any arbitrators or referees, and such deposition shall be sealed up, endorsed with
the title of the action or proceeding, the name of the officer taking the same, and
addressed and transmitted by such officer to such justice, mayor, or other judicial
officer, arbitrators or referees.
SEC. 383 (383). When a deposition has once been taken, it may be read in any
stage of the same action or proceeding, or in any other action or proceeding, upon
the same matter between the same parties, subject, however, to all such exceptions
as may be taken thereto under the provisions of this title.
SEC. 384 (384). Depositions taken pursuant to this article, by any judicial or
other officer herein authorized to take depositions, having a seal of office, whether
resident in this state or elsewhere, shall be admitted in evidence upon the certifi
cate and signature of such officer, under the seal of the court of which he is an
officer, or his official seal, and no other or further act of authentication shall be
required. If the officer taking the same have no official seal, the deposition, if
not taken in this state, shall be certified and signed by such officer, and shall be
further authenticated; either by parol proof adduced in court, or by the official
certificate and seal of any secretary or other officer of state keeping the great seal
thereof, or of the clerk or prothonotary of any court having a seal, attesting that
such judicial or other officer was at the time of taking the same, within the mean
ing of this chapter, authorized to take the same. But if the deposition be taken
within this state by an officer having no seal, or within or without this state under
a special commission, it shall be sufficiently authenticated by the official signature
of the officer or commissioner taking the same.
SEC. 385 (385). The officer taking the deposition shall annex thereto a certificate
showing the following facts: First—That the witness was first sworn to testify
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. Second—That the deposi
tion was reduced to writing by some proper person (naming him). Third—That
the deposition was written and subscribed in the presence of the officer certify
ing thereto. Fourth—That the deposition was taken at the time and place speci
fied in the notice.

SEC. 386 (386). When a deposition is offered to be read in evidence, it must ap
pear to the satisfaction of the court that for any cause specified in section three
hundred and seventy-two, the attendance of the witness can not be procured.
SEC. 387 (387). Every deposition intended to be read in evidence on the trial
must be filed at least one day before the day of trial.
SEC. 388 (388). The following fees shall be allowed for taking depositions in-
the state, viz: Swearing each witness, five cents; for each subpoena, attachment
or order of commitment, fifty cents; for each hundred words contained in such
deposition and certificate, ten cents, and no more ; and such officer may retain the
same until such fees are paid. Such officer shall also tax the costs of the sheriff,
or other officer who shall serve the processes aforesaid, and fees of the witnesses,
and may also, if directed by the persons entitled thereto, retain such depositions-
until said fees are paid.
SEC. 389 (389). Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing, specifying the
grounds of objection, and filed with the papers in the cause.
SEC. 390 (390). No exception other than for incompetency or irrelevancy shall
be regarded, unless made and filed before the commencement of the trial.
SEC. 391 (391). The court shall, on motion of either party, hear and decide the
questions arising on exceptions to depositions, before the commencement of the
trial.
SEC. 392 (392).• Errors of the court in its decisions upon exceptions to deposi
tions are waived, unless excepted to.
SEC. 393 (393). Either party may exhibit to the other or to his attorney, at any
time before the trial, any paper or document material to the action, and request
an admission in writing of genuineness. If the adverse party or his attorney
fail to give the admission in writing within four days after the request, and if
the party exhibiting the paper or document be afterwards put to any cost or ex
pense to prove its genuineness, and the same be finally proved or admitted on the
trial, such costs and expenses, to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the
party refusing to make the admission, unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of
the court that there were good reasons for the refusal.
SEC. 394 (394). Either party or his attorney may demand of the adverse party
an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of a book, paper or docu
ment in his possession or under his control, containing evidence relating to the
merits of the action or defense therein. Such demand shall be in writing, specify
ing the book, paper or document, with sufficient particularity to enable the
other party to distinguish it, and if compliance with the demand within four days
be refused, the court or judge, on motion and notice to the adverse party, may in
their discretion order the adverse party to give the other, within a specified time,
an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of such book, paper or docu
ment ; and on failure to comply with such order, the court may exclude the paper
or document from being given in evidence, or if wanted as evidence by the party
applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as the party by affidavit al
leges it to be. This section is not to be construed to prevent a party from com
pelling another to produce any book, paper or document when he is examined as
a witness.

SEC. 395 (395). Either party or his attorney, if required, shall deliver to the
other party or his attorney, a copy of any deed, instrument or other writing
whereon the action or defense is founded, or which he intends to offer in evidence
at the trial. If the plaintiff or defendant shall refuse to furnish the copy or copies
required, the party so refusing shall not be permitted to give in evidence, at the
trial, the original, of which a copy has been refused. This section shall not ap
ply to any paper a copy of which is filed with a pleading.
SEC. 396 (396). Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code, or other written
law, enacted by any other territory or state, or foreign government, purporting or
proved to have been published by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonlv
admitted as evidence of the existing law in the courts or tribunals of such
territory, state or government, shall be admitted by the courts and officers of this
state on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. The unwritten or
common law of any other territory, state, or foreign government, may be proved
as facts by parol evidence, and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their
courts may also be admitted as presumptive evidence of such law.

SEC. 397 (397). If a witness conceal himself, or in any other manner attempt
to avoid being personally served with a subpoena, any sheriff or constable, having
the subpoena, may use all necessary and proper means to serve the same, and for
that purpose may break into any building or other place where the witness is to
be found, having first made known his business and demanded admittance.

SEC. 398 (398). In addition to the above remedies, if a party to a suit in his own
right, on being duly subpoenaed, fail to appear and give testimony, the other
party may, at his option, have a continuance of the cause as in cases of other wit
nesses, and at the cost of the delinquent.

SEC. 399 (399). The supreme or district court may, by rule, require the produc
tion of any papers or books which are material to the just determination of any
cause pending before it, for the purpose of being inspected and copied by or for the
party thus calling for them.
SEC. 400 (400). The petition for that purpose must state the facts expected to
be proved by such books or papers, and that, as the petitioner believes, such books
and papers are under the control of the party against whom the rule is sought,
and must show wherein they are material. The rule shall thereupon be granted
to produce the book and papers or show cause to the contrary, if the court deem
such rule expedient and proper.

SEC. 401 (401). On failing to obey the rule or show sufficient cause for such
failure, the same consequences shall ensue as if the party had failed to appear
and testify, when subpoenaed by the party now calling for the books and papers.
SEC. 402 (402). Though a writing called for by one party is by the other pro
duced, the party thus calling for it is not obliged to use it as evidence in the
case.
SEC. 403 (403). Publications required by law to be made in a newspaper, may
be proved by affidavit of any person having knowledge of the fact, specifying
the time when and the paper in which the publication was made, but such affidavit
must, for the purposes now contemplated, be made within six months after the
last day of publication.

SEC. 404 (404).. The posting up or service of any notice or other paper required
by law, may be proved by the affidavit of any competent witness, attached to a
copy of said notice or paper, and made within six months of the time of such
posting up.
SEC. 405 (405). Any other fact which is required to be shown by affidavit, and
which may be required for future use in any action or other proceeding, may be
proved by pursuing the course above indicated, as nearly as the circumstances
of the case will admit.
SEC. 406 (406). Such proof so made may be perpetuated and preserved for fu
ture use by filing the papers above mentioned in the office of the judge of probate,
and the original affidavit appended to the notice or paper, if there be one, and if
not the affidavit, by itself, is presumptive evidence of the facts stated therein, but
does not preclude other modes of proof now held sufficient.
SEC. 407 (407). A copy of the field notes of any county surveyor, or a plat made
by him and certified under oath as correct, may be received as evidence to show
the shape or dimensions of a tract of land, or any other fact whose ascertainment
requires only the exercise of scientific skill or calculation.

SEC. 408 (408). Duly certified copies of all records and entries or papers be
longing to any public office, or by authority of law filed to be kept therein, shall
be evidence in all cases of equal credibility with the original records or papers so
filed.
SEC. 409 (409). Every officer having the custody of a public record or writing
is bound to give any person on demand a certified copy thereof, on payment of
the legal fees therefor.
SEC. 410 (410). The certificate of a public officer that he has made diligent and
ineffectual search for a paper in his office is of the same efficacy in all cases as if
such officer had personally appeared and sworn to such facts.
SEC. 411 (411). The usual duplicate receipt of the receiver of any land office,
or, if that be lest or destroyed, or beyond the reach of the party, the certificate of
such receiver, that the books of his office show the sale of a tract of land to a cer
tain individual, is' proof of title equivalent to a patent against all but the holder
of an actual patent.
SEC. 412 (412). In the cases contemplated in the last three sections, the signature
of the officer shall be presumed to be genuine until the contrary is shown.
SEC. 413 (413). A judicial record of this state, or of any other federal court of
the United States, may be proved by the producing of the original, or by a copy
thereof, certified by the clerk or the person having the legal custody thereof, au
thenticated by his seal of office, if he have one.
SEC. 414 (414). That of a sister state may be proved by the attestation of the
clerk and the seal of the court annexed, if there be a seal, together with a cer
tificate of a judge, chief justice, or presiding magistrate, that the attestation is in
due form of law.

SEC. 415 (415). The official certificate of a justice of the peace of any of the
United States, to any judgment, and the preliminary proceeding before him, sup
ported by the official certificate of the clerk of any court of record within the
county in which such justice resides, stating that he is an acting justice of the
peace of that county, and that the signature of his certificate is genuine, is suf
ficient evidence of such proceedings and judgment.
SEC. 416 (416). Copies of records and proceedings in the courts of a foreign
country may be admitted in evidence, upon being authenticated as follows :
First—By the official attestation of the clerk or officer in whose custody such rec
ords are legally kept. Second—By the certificate of one of the judges or magis
trates of such court, that the person so attesting is the clerk or officer legally en
trusted with the custody of such records, and that the signature to his attestation
is genuine. Third—By the official certificate of the officer who has the custody
of the principal seal of the government under whose authority the court is held,
attested by said seal, stating that such court is duly constituted, specifying the
general nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the seal of the court.

SEC. 417 (417). Acts of the executive of the United States, or of this state, or
of any state in the Union, or of a foreign government, are proved by the records
of the state department of the respective governments, or by public documents
purporting to have been printed by order of the legislatures of those govern
ments respectively, or by either branch thereof.

SEC. 418 (418). The proceedings of the legislature of this state, or any state of
the Unicn, or of the United States, or of any foreign government, are proved by
the journals of those bodies, respectively, or of either branch thereof, and either
by copies officially certified by the clerk of the house in which the proceedings
were had, or by a copy purporting to have been printed by their order.
SEC. 419 (419). Printed copies'of the statute laws of this state, or any of the
United States, or of congress, or of any foreign government, purporting or proved
to have been published under the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly
admitted as evidence of the existing laws in the courts of such state or govern
ment, shall be admitted in the courts of this state as presumptive evidence of
such law.
SEC. 420 (420). The public seal of the state or county affixed to a copy of a
written law or other public writing, is also admissible as evidence of such law or
writing respectively ; the unwritten law of any other state or government may be
proved as fact by parol evidence, and also by the books of reports of cases ad
judged in their courts.

SEC. 421 (421). The testimony of a witness may be perpetuated in the following
manner: The applicant shall hie in the office of the clerk of the district court, a
petition, to be verified, in which shall be set forth, specially, the subject-matter
relative to which testimony is to be taken, and the names of the persons interested,
if known to the applicant ; and if not known, such general description as he can
give of such persons as heirs, devisees, alienees or otherwise. The petition shall
also state the names of the witnesses to be examined, and the interrogatories to be
propounded to each ; that the applicr'-t expects to be a party to an action in a
court of this state, in which such testimony will, as he believes, be material ; and
the obstacles preventing the immediate commencement of the action, where the
applicant expects to be the plaintiff.

SEC. 422 (422). The court, or judge thereof, may forthwith make an order allow
ing the examination of such witnesses. The order shall prescribe the time and
place of the examination, how long the parties interested shall be notified thereof,
and the manner in which they shall be notified.

SEC. 423 (423). When it appears satisfactorily to the court or judge that the
parties interested cannot be personally notified, such court or judge shall appoint
a competent attorney to examine the petition and prepare and file cross-interroga
tories to those contained therein.
SEC. 424 (424). The witnesses shall be examined upon the interrogatories of the
applicant, and upon cross-interrogatories, where they are required to be prepared,
and no others shall be propounded to them ; nor shall any statement be received
which is not responsive to some of them. The attorney filing the cross-interroga
tories shall be allowed a reasonable fee therefor, to be taxed in the bill of costs.

SEC. 425 (425). Such depositions shall be taken before some one authorized by
law to take depositions, or before some one specially authorized by the court or
judge, and shall be returned to the clerk's office of the court in which the petition
was filed.
SEC. 426 (426). The court or judge, if satisfied that the depositions have been
properly taken, and as herein required, shall approve the same and order them to
be filed ; and if a trial be had between the parties named in the petition, or their
privies or successors in interest, such depositions, or certified copies thereof, may
be given in evidence by either party, where the witnesses are dead, or insane, or
where their attendance for oral examination cannot be obtained or required ; but
such depositions shall be subject to the same objections for irrelevancy and incom
petency as may be made to depositions taken pending an action.
SEC. 427 (427). The applicant shall pay the costs of all proceedings under this chapter.

SEC. 428 (428). [Definition.] —A judgment is a final determination of the rights
of the parties in an action.

SEC. 429 (429). Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several
plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants ; it may determine
the ultimate rights of the parties on either side, as between themselves, and it may
grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to which he may be entitled. In an
action against several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render judg
ment against one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others,
whenever a several judgment may be proper. The court may also dismiss the
petition with costs, in favor of one or more defendants, in case of unreasonable
neglect on the part of the plaintiff to serve the summons on other defendants, or
to proceed in the cause against the defendant or defendants served.

SEC. 1415 (1415). That the transcript of a judgment at any district court in this state may
be filed in the office of the clerk of the district court in any county, and such
transcript shall be a lien on the property of the debtor in any county in which
such transcript is filed, in like manner, as in the county where such judgment was
rendered, and execution may be issued on judgment obtained by such transcript as
on the original judgment; Provided, That such transcript shall at all times be
effected and be in the same plight as the original judgment.
SEC. 1416 (1416). That when any judgment or decree shall be rendered for a conveyance,
release, or acquittance, in any court of this state, and the party or parties against
whom the judgment or decree shall be rendered do not comply therewith within
the time mentioned in said judgment or decree, such judgment or decree shall
have the same operation and effect, and be as available as if the conveyance, re
lease, or acquittance had been executed conformable to such judgment or decree.
SEC. 1417 (1417). That a transcript of any judgment or decree rendered in a circuit or
district court of the United States, within the state of Nebraska, may be filed in
the office of the clerk of the district court in any county in this state, and such
transcript, when so filed and entered on the judgment record, shall be a lien on
the property of the debtor in any county in which such transcript is so filed, in the
same manner and under- the same conditions only as if such judgment or decree
had been rendered by the district court of such county ; Proi idcd, That such
transcript shall at all times be effected and be in the same plight as the original
judgment.
SEC. 1418 (1418). Nothing herein shall be construed to require the docketing of a judg
ment or a decree of a United States court, or the filing of a transcript thereof in
any slate office within the same county in this state in which the judgment or
decree is rendered, in order that such judgment or decree may be a lien on any
property within such county.

SEC. 430 (430). An action may be dismissed without prejudice to a future ac
tion : hirst —By the plaintiff, before the final submission of the case to the jury,
or to the court, where the trial is by the court. Second—By the court, where the
plaintiff fails to appear on the trial. Third—By the court, for want of necessary
parties. Fourth—by the court, on the application of some of the defendants,
where there are others whom the plaintiff fails to prosecute with diligence.
Fifth—By the court, for disobedience by the plaintiff of an order concerning the
proceedings in the action. In all other cases, upon the trial of the action, the de
cision must be upon the merits.

SEC. 1420 (1420). That the party plaintiff, in any case pending in the district or supreme
court of the state, shall, when no counter-claim or set-off has been filed by the op
posite party, have the right in the vacation of any of said courts to dismiss his
said action without prejudice, upon payment of costs, which said dismissal shall
be, by the clerk of any of said courts, entered upon the journal and take effect
from and after the date thereof.

SEC. 431 (431). In any case where a set-off or counter-claim has been presented,
the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to the trial of his claim, although
the plaintiff may have dismissed the action or failed to appear.
SEC. 432 (432). If the taking of an account, or the proof of a fact, or the assess
ment of damages, be necessary to enable the court to pronounce judgment upon
a failure to answer, or after a decision of an issue of law, the court may, with the
assent of the party not in default, take the account, hear the proof, or assess the
damages ; or may, with the like assent, refer the same to a referee, master, or com
missioner, or may direct the same to be ascertained or assessed by a jury. If a
jury be ordered, it shall be on or after the day on which the action is set for trial.
SEC. 433 (433). Any person indebted, or against whom a cause of action exists,
may personally appear, in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, with the assent
of the creditor or person having such cause of action, confess judgment therefor,
whereupon judgment shall be entered accordingly.
SEC. 434 (434). The debt or cause of action shall be briefly stated in the judg
ment, or in a writing to be filed as pleadings in other actions.
SEC. 435 (435). Such judgment shall authorize the same proceedings for its en
forcement as judgments rendered in actions regularly brought and prosecuted;
and the confession shall operate as a release of errors.
SEC. 436 (436). Every attorney who shall confess judgment in any case, shall, at
the time of making such confession, produce the warrant of attorney for making
the same to the court before which he makes the confession, and the original or a
copy of the warrant shall be filed with the clerk of the court in which the judg
ment shall be entered.
SEC. 437 (437). If any person be in custody in a civil action, at the suit of an
other, no warrant of attorney executed by the person in custody, to confess judg
ment in favor of the person at whose suit he is in custody, shall be of any force,
unless some attorney expressly named by the person in custody be present, and
sign the warrant of attorney as a witness.
SEC. 438 (438). When a trial by jury has been had, judgment must be rendered
by the clerk in conformity to the verdict, unless it is special or the court order the
case to be reserved for future argument or consideration.
SEC. 439 (439). Where the verdict is special, or where there has been a special
finding on particular questions of fact, or where the court has ordered the case to
be reserved, it shall order what judgment shall be entered.

SEC. 440 (440). Where, upon the statements in the pleadings, one party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so rendered by the court,
though a verdict has been found against such party.

SEC. 441 (441). If a counter-claim or set-off established at the trial, exceeds the.
plaintiff's claim so established, judgment for the defendant must be given for the
excess; or, if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any affirmative relief,
judgment shall be given therefor.

SEC. 442 (442). It shall not be necessary to reserve, in a judgment or order, the
right of an infant to show cause against it after his attaining full age ; but in any
case in which, but for this section, such reservation would have been proper, the
infant, within one year after arriving at the age of twenty-one years, may show
cause against such order or judgment.
SEC. 443 (443). All judgments and orders must be entered on the journal of the
court, and specify clearly the relief granted or order made in the action.
SEC. 444 (444). The clerk shall make a complete record of every cause, as soon
as it is finally determined, unless such record, or some part thereof, be duly
waived.

SEC. 445 (445). He shall make up such record in each cause, in the vacation next
after the term at which the same was determined, and the presiding judge of such
court shall, at its next term thereafter, subscribe the same.

SEC. 446 (446). The records shall be made up from the petition, the process, re
turn, the pleadings subsequent thereto, reports, verdicts, orders, judgments, and
all material acts and proceedings of the court ; but if the items of an account, or
the copies of a paper attached to the pleadings, be voluminous, the court may order
the record to be made by abbreviating the same, or inserting a pertinent descrip
tion thereof, or by omitting them entirely. Evidence must not be recorded.
SEC. 447 (447). When the judicial acts or other proceedings of any court have
not been regularly brought up and recorded by the clerk thereof, such court shall
cause the same to be made up and recorded within such time as it may direct.
hen they are made up, and upon examination found to be correct, the presiding
judge of such court shall subscribe the same.

SEC. 448 (448). No complete record shall be made: First—In criminal prosecu
tions where the indictment has been quashed, or where the prosecuting attorney
shall have entered a nolle prosequi on the indictment. Second—In cases where an
action has been dismissed without prejudice to a future action. Third—In ac
tions in which, in open court, at the term at which the final order or judgment
shall be made, both parties shall declare their agreement that no record sXall be
made.

SEC. 449 (449). In cases where an action has been dismissed without prejudice
to a future action, the clerk shall make a complete record of the proceedings, upon
being paid for making the same by the party desiring the record to be made.

SEC. 450 (450). A complete record shall be made in the case mentioned in sec
tion four hundred and thirty-one, unless waived by the parties.
SEC. 451 (451). Real property may be conveyed by master commissioners as
hereinafter provided: First—When by an order or judgment in an action or pro
ceeding, a party is ordered to convey such property to another, and he shall neglect
oi- refuse to comply with such order or judgment. Second—When specific real
property is required to be sold under an order or judgment of the court
SEC. 452 (452). A sheriff may act as a master commissioner under the second subdivision of the preceding section. Sales made under the same shall conform in
all respects to the laws regulating sales of land upon execution.
SEC. 453 (453). The deed of a master commissioner shall contain the like recital
and shall be executed, acknowledged and recorded, as the deed of a sheriff, of
real property sold under execution.

SEC. 454 (454). In addition to the causes of action which survive at common law,
causes of action for mesne promts, or for an injury to real or personal estate, or
for any deceit or fraud, shall also survive, and the action may be brought, not
withstanding the death of the person entitled or liable to the same.
SEC. 455 (455). No action pending in any court shall abate by the death of either
or both the parties thereto, except an action for libel, slander, malicious prosecu
tion, assault, or assault and battery, for a nuisance, or against a justice of the
peace for misconduct in office; which shall abate by the death of the defendant.
SEC. 456 (456). Where there are several plaintiffs or defendants in an action,
and one of them dies, or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the right
of action survive to or against the remaining parties, the action may proceed, the
death of the party, or the cessation of his powers, being stated on the record.

SEC. 457 (457). Where one of several plaintiffs or defendants dies, or his powers
as a personal representative cease, if the cause of action do not admit of a sur
vivorship, and the court is of opinion that the merits of the controversy can be
properly determined, and the principles applicable to the case fully settled, it may
proceed to try the same as between the remaining parties; but the judgment
shall not prejudice any who were not parties at the time of the trial.
SEC. 458 (458). Where one of the parties to an action dies, or his powers as a
personal representative cease, before the judgment, if the right of action survive
in favor of or against his representatives or successor, the action may be revived,
and proceed in their names.
SEC. 459 (459). The revivor shall be, by a conditional order of the court if made
in term, or by a judge thereof if made in vacation, that the action be revived in the
names of the representatives or successor of the party who died, or whose powers
ceased, and proceed in favor of or against them.
SEC. 460 (460). The order may be made on the motion of the adverse party, or
of the representatives or successor of the party who died, or whose powers ceased,
suggesting his death or the cessation of his powers, which, with the names and
capacities of his representatives or successor, shall be stated in the order.
SEC. 461 (461). If the order is made by consent of the parties, the action shall
forthwith stand revived ; and if not made by consent, the order shall be served in
the same manner, and returned within the same time, as a summons, upon the
party adverse to the one making the motion, and if sufficient cause be not shown
against the revivor, the action shall stand revived.

SEC. 462 (462). When the plaintiff shall make an affidavit, that the representa
tives of the defendant, or any of them, in whose name the action may be ordered
to be revived, are non-residents of the state, or have left the same to avoid the
service of the order, or so conceal themselves that the order cannot be served upon
them, or that the names and residence of the heirs or devisees of the person against
whom the action may be ordered to be revived, or some of them, are unknown to
the affiant, a notice may be published for four consecutive weeks, as provided by section seventy-nine, notifying them to appear on a day therein named, not less
than ten days after the publication is complete, and show cause why the action
should not be revived against them ; and if sufficient cause be not shown to the
contrary, the action shall stand revived.
SEC. 463 (463). Upon the death of the plaintiff in an action, it may be revived
in the names of his representatives, to whom his right has passed. Where his
right has passed to his personal representative, the revivor shall be in his name ;
where it has passed to his heirs or devisees, who could support the action if
brought anew, the revivor may be in their names.
SEC. 464 (464). Upon the death of a defendant in an action, wherein the right,
or any part thereof survives against his personal representative, the revivor shall
be against him ; and it may also be against the heirs or devisees of the defendant,
or both, when the right of action, or any part thereof, survives against them.
SEC. 465 (465). Upon the death of a defendant in an action for the recovery of
real property only, or which concerns only his rights or claims to such property,
the action may be revived against his heirs or devisees, or both, and an order
therefor may be forthwith made in the manner directed in the preceding sections
of this title.

SEC. 466 (466).. An order to revive an action against the representatives or suc
cessor of a defendant shall not be made without the consent of such representa
tives or successor, unless in one year from the time it could have been first made.
SEC. 467 (467). An order to revive an action in the names of the representatives
or successor of a plaintiff, may be made forthwith, but shall not be made without
the consent of the defendant, after the expiration of one year from the time the
order might have been first made ; but where the defendant shall also have died,
or his powers have ceased in the meantime, the order of revivor on both sides may
be made in the period limited in the last section.
SEC. 468 (468). When it appears to the court by affidavit that either party to an
action has been dead, or, where a party sues or is sued as a personal representative,
that his powers have ceased, for a period so long that the action cannot be re
vived in the names of his representatives or successor, without the consent of
both parties, it shall order the action to be stricken from the docket.
SEC. 469 (469). At any term of the court succeeding the death of the plaintiff,
while the action remains on the docket, the defendant having given to the plain
tiff's proper representatives, in whose names the action might be revived, ten
days' notice of the application therefor, may have an order to strike the action
from the docket and for costs against the estate of the plaintiff, unless the action
is forthwith revived.
SEC. 470 (470). When, by the provisions of the preceding sections, an action
stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be postponed by reason of the revivor,
if the action would have stood for trial at the term the revivor is complete, had no
death or cessation of powers taken place.
SEC. 471 (471). When a judgment is recovered against one or more persons
jointly indebted upon contract, those who were not originally summoned may be
made parties to the judgment by action.
SEC. 472 (472). If either or both the parties die after judgment, and before sat
isfaction thereof, their representatives, real or personal, or both, as the case may
require, may be made parties to the same, in the same manner as is prescribed for
reviving actions before judgment; and such judgment may be rendered and execu
tion awarded as might or ought to be given or awarded against the representa
tives real or personal, or both, of such deceased party.
SEC. 473 (473). If a judgment become dormant, it may be revived in the same
manner as is prescribed for reviving actions before judgment.

SEC. 474 (474). Executions shall be deemed process of the court, and shall be
issued by the clerk and directed to the sheriff of the county. They may be directed
to different counties at the same time.
SEC. 475 (475). Executions are of three kinds: First—Against the property of
the judgment debtor. Second—Against his person. Third—For the delivery of
the possession of real property with damages for withholding the same, and costs.
SEC. 476 (476). Lands, tenements, goods and chattels, not exempt by law, shall
be subject to the payment of debts, and shall be liable to be taken on execution and
sold as hereinafter provided.
SEC. 477 (477). The lands and tenements of the debtor within the county where
the judgment is entered, shall be bound for the satisfaction thereof, from the
first day of the term at which judgment is rendered ; but judgments by confession,
and judgments rendered at the same term at which the action is commenced, shall
bind such lands only from the day on which such judgments are rendered. All
other lands, as well as goods and chattels of the debtor, shall be bound from the
time they shall be seized in execution.

SEC. 1468 (1468). Hereafter no stay of execution or order of sale upon any judgment or
decree shall be granted for a longer time than nine months from and after the
rendition of such judgment or decree.
SEC. 1469 (1469). The order of sale on all decrees for the sale of mortgaged premises
shall be stayed for the period of nine months from and after the rendition of such
decree, whenever the defendant shall, within twenty days after the rendition of such
decree, file with the clerk of the court a written request for the same ; Provided,
That if the defendant make no such request within said twenty days, the order of
sale may issue immediately after the expiration thereof.

SEC. 1470 (1470). On all judgments for the recovery of money only, except those ren
dered in any court on an appeal or writ of error thereto or against any officer or
person or corporation, or the sureties of any of them, for money received in a
fiduciary capacity, or for the breach of any official duty, there may be a stay of ex
ecution if the defendant therein shall, within twenty days from the rendition of
judgment, procure two or more sufficient freehold sureties to enter into a bond,
acknowledging themselves security for the defendant for the payment of the
judgment, interest, and costs, from the time of rendering judgment until paid, as
follows : First—If the sum for which judgment was rendered, exclusive of costs,
does not exceed fifty dollars, three months. Second—If the sum for which judg
ment was rendered, exclusive of costs, exceeds fifty dollars and does not exceed
one hundred dollars, six months. Third—If the sum for which judgment was
rendered, exclusive of costs, exceeds one hundred dollars, nine months.

SEC. 1471 (1471). Officers approving stay bonds shall require the affidavits of the signers
of such bonds that they own real estate not exempt from execution, and aside
from incumbrance, to the value of twice the amount of the judgment.
SEC. 1472 (1472). No proceedings in error or appeal shall be allowed after such stay has
been taken, nor shall a stay be taken on a judgment entered as herein contem
plated, against one who is surety in the stay of execution.

SEC. 1473 (1473). The sureties for the stay of execution may he taken and approved by
the clerk, and the bond shall be recorded in a book kept for that purpose, and
have the force and effect of a judgment confessed from the date thereof against
the property of the sureties, and the clerk shall enter and index the same in the
proper judgment docket, as in the case of other judgments.

SEC. 1474 (1474). When the surety is entered after execution issued, the clerk shall im
mediately notify the sheriff of the stay, and he shall forthwith return the exe
cution, with his doings thereon.

SEC. 1475 (1475). All property levied on before stay of execution, and all written un
dertakings for the delivery of personal property to the sheriff, shall be relinquished
by the officer upon stay of execution being entered.
SEC. 1476 (1476). At the expiration of the stay the clerk shall issue a joint execution
against the property of all the judgment debtors and sureties, describing them as
debtors of sureties therein.

SEC. 1477 (1477). Where a stay of execution has been taken such confessed judgment
shall not release any judgment lien by virtue of the original judgment for the
amount then due. The officer holding the execution shall return thereon what
amount was made from the principal debtor, and how much from the sureties.

SEC. 1478 (1478). In all cases wherein the judgment of any court, for payment of
money only, which now is, or may hereafter be a general lien on property of the
judgment debtor, and the debtor proposes to take proceedings, in error, or by
appeal for review of such judgment, he may deposit in the court in which such
judgment is rendered the full sum of such judgment, interest and costs, there to
abide till termination of such appellate proceedings, and may file bond in such sum
as the court or judge thereof may determine with sureties to the approval of the
clerk of such court, conditioned to pay interest on the judgment debt and costs to
accrue in event the judgment be affirmed. On such payment being made, and
such bond filed and approved, the general lien of the judgment shall be dis
solved.
SEC. 1479 (1479). If such judgment be affirmed, the money so deposited shall be paid to
the judgment creditor, but if such judgment be reversed, the debtor may with
draw such deposit.

SEC. 482 (482). If execution shall not be sued out within five years from the
date of any judgment that now is or may hereafter be rendered in any court of
record in this state, or if five years shall have intervened between the date of the
last execution issued on such judgment and the time of suing out another writ of
execution thereon, such judgment shall become dormant, and shall cease to
operate as a lien on the estate of the judgment debtor.
SEC. 483 (483). The writ of execution against the property of the judgment
debtor, issuing from any court of record in this state, shall command the officer to
whom it is directed, that of the goods and chattels of the debtor he cause to be
made the money specified in the writ, and for want of goods and chattels he cause
the same to be made of the lands and tenements of the debtor; and the exact
amount of the debt, damages and costs, for which the judgment is entered shall
be endorsed on the execution.

SEC. 484 (484). When two or more writs of execution against the same debtor
shall be sued out during the term in which judgment was rendered, or within ten
days thereafter, and when two or more writs of execution against the same debtor
shall be delivered to the officer on the same day, no preference shall be given to
either of such writs ; but if a sufficient sum of money be not made to satisfy all
executions, the amount made shall be distributed to the several creditors in pro
portion to the amount of their respective demands. In all other cases the writ of
execution first delivered to the officer shall be first satisfied. And it shall be
the duty of the officer to endorse on every writ of execution the time when he re
ceived the same; but nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to affect
any preferable lien which one or more of the judgments on which execution issued
may have on the lands of the judgment debtor.
SEC. 485 (485). The officer to whom a writ of execution is delivered shall pro
ceed immediately to levy the same upon the goods and chattels of the debtor ; but
if no goods and chattels can be found, the officer shall endorse on the writ of exe
cution "no goods," and forthwith levy the writ of execution upon the lands and
tenements of the debtor, which may be liable to satisfy the judgment.
SEC. 486 (486). If the officer, by virtue of any writ of execution issued from
any court of record in this state, shall levy the same on any goods and chattels
claimed by any person other than the defendant, it shall be the duty of said officer
forthwith to give notice in writing to some justice of the peace in the county, in
which shall be set forth the names of the plaintiff and defendant, together with
the name of the claimant ; and at the same time he shall furnish the said justice
of the peace with a schedule of the property claimed. And it shaK be the duty of
such justice of the peace, immediately upon the receipt of such notice and sched
ule, to make an entry of the same upon his docket, and issue a writ of summons,
directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to sum
mon five disinterested men, having the qualification of electors, who shall be
named in said summons, to appear before him, the said justice, at the time and
place therein mentioned, which time shall not be more than three days after the
date of said writ, to try and determine the right of the claimant to the property
in controversy. And it shall be the duty of the claimant to give two days' notice
in writing to the plaintiff or other party for whose benefit such execution was is
sued and levied as aforesaid, his agent or attorney, if within the county, of the
time and place of such trial ; and he shall, moreover, prove to the satisfaction of
said justice that such notice was given, or that the same could not be. given by
reason of the absence of the party, his agent or attorney.

SEC. 487 (487). The jury summoned as aforesaid, shall be sworn to try and de
termine the right of the claimant to the property in controversy, and a true ver
dict to give, according to the evidence. If the jury shall find the right to said
goods and chattels, or any part thereof, to be in the claimant, they shall also find
the value thereof, and the justice snail render judgment upon such finding of the
jury, for the claimant, that he recover his costs against the plaintiff in execution,
or other party to the same for whose benefit the execution issued, and also that
he have restitution of said goods and chattels, or any part thereof, according to the
rinding of the jury. But if the right of the said goods and chattels, and every part
thereof, shall not be in the claimant according to the finding of said jury, then the
said justice shall render judgment on such finding, in favor of the plaintiff in ex
ecution, or other party for whose benefit the same was issued and levied, against
said claimant for costs, and award execution thereon. Said justice of the peace,
in the taxation of costs accruing by reason of such claim and trial, shall allow
each juror summoned and sworn the sum of fifty cents ; and for the sheriff, con
stable or other officer, and witnesses, and for himself, he shall tax such fees as are
allowed by law, to each respectively, for like services rendered in other cases. Such
judgment for the claimant (unless an undertaking shall be executed, as provided
in the next section) shall be a justification of the officer in returning "no goods"
to the writ of execution by virtue of which the levy has been made, as to such part of the goods and chattels as were found to belong to such claimant.
SEC. 488 (488). If the jury shall find the property, or any part thereof, to be in
the claimant, and the plaintiff in execution shall, at any time within three days
after said trial tender to the sheriff or other officer having such property in his
custody on execution, an undertaking, with good and sufficient sureties, payable
to such claimant, in double the amount of the value of such property as assessed
by the jury, to the effect that they will pay all damages sustained by reason of the
detention or sale of such property, then the sheriff or other officer shall deliver
said undertaking to claimant, and proceed to sell such property, as if no such
trial of the right of property had taken place, and shall not be liable to the
claimant therefor.

SEC. 489 (489). In all cases where a sheriff, coroner, or other officer, shall by
virtue of an execution, levy upon any goods and chattels which shall remain upon
his hands unsold, for want of bidders, for the want of time to advertise and sell,
or any other reasonable cause, the officer may, for his own security, take of the
defendant an undertaking, with security in such sum as he may deem sufficient, to
the effect that the said property shall be delivered to the officer holding an execu
tion for the sale of the same, at the time and place appointed by said officer, either
by notice given in writing to said defendant in execution, or by advertisement,
published in a newspaper printed in the county, naming therein the day and place
of sale. If the defendant shall fail to deliver the goods and chattels at the time
and place mentioned in the notice to him given, or to pay to the officer holding
the execution, tlie full value of said goods and chattels, or the amount of said debt
and costs, the undertaking, given as aforesaid, shall be considered as broken, and
may be proceeded on as in other cases.
SEC. 490 (490). The officer who levies upon goods and chattels, by virtue of an
execution issued by a court of record, before he proceeds to sell the same, shall
cause public notice to be given of the time and place of sale, for at least ten days
before the day of sale. The notice shall be given by advertisement published in
some newspaper printed in the county, or in case no newspaper be printed therein,
by putting up advertisements in five public places in the county; two advertise
ments shall be put up in the precinct where the sale is to be held. And where
goods and chattels levied upon can not be sold for want of bidders, the officer mak
ing such return shall annex to the execution a true and perfect inventory of such
goods and chattels, and the plaintiff in such execution may thereupon sue out an
other writ of execution, directing the sale of the property levied upon as afore
said ; but such goods and chattels shall not be sold unless the time and place of sale
be advertised as hereinbefore provided.

SEC. 491 (491). When any writ shall issue, directing the sale of property pre
viously taken in execution, the officer issuing said writ shall, at the request of the
person entitled to the benefit thereof, his agent or attorney, add thereto a com
mand to the officer to whom such writ shall be directed, that if the property re
maining in his hands not sold shall, in his opinion, be insufficient to satisfy the
judgment, he shall levy the same upon the lands and tenements, goods and chat
tels, or either, as the law shall permit, being the property of the judgment debtor,
sufficient to satisfy the debt.
SEC. 1490 (1490). Whenever, hereafter, execution shall be levied on any lands and tene
ments, the officer levying the same shall call an inquest of two disinterested free
holders, who shall be residents of the county where the lands taken on execution
are situated, and administer to them an oath impartially to appraise the interest
of the person, or persons, or corporation against whom the execution is levied, in
the property so levied upon, and such officer, together with said freeholders, shall
appraise said interest at its real value in money, and such appraisement shall be
signed by such officer and said freeholders, respectively.

SEC. 1491 (1491). That for the purpose of the appraisement mentioned in the last pre
ceding section, the officer and the freeholders therein named shall deduct from
the real value of the lands and tenements levied on, the amount of all liens and
incumbrances for taxes or otherwise, prior to the lien of the judgment under
which execution is levied, and to be determined as hereinafter provided, and
which liens and incumbrances shall be specifically enumerated, and the sum there-
after remaining shall be the real value of the interest therein of the person, persons, or corporation against whom or which the execution is levied.

SEC. 1492 (1492). It shall be the duty of the county clerk, the clerk of the district court,
and the county treasurer of the county, and the treasurer of the village, town or
city wherein such levy is made for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of the
liens and incumbrances upon the lands and tenements so levied upon, on applica
tion of the sheriff in writing holding such execution, to certify to said sheriff under
their respective hands and official seals the amount and character of all liens exist
ing against the lands and tenements levied on which are prior to the lien of such
levy as the said liens appear of record in their respective offices, for which certifi
cate and the necessary search thereof said officer shall receeive a fee of one dollar
SEC. $1  ($1 ).each, to be paid by the plaintiff in the execution and taxed as increase costs
in the action in which the judgment on which execution was issued was rendered.


SEC. 1493 (1493). The officer holding such appraisement shall forthwith deposit a copy-
thereof, including his application to the officers enumerated in section three of this
act, and their official certificates as in said section provided, in the office of the
clerk of the court from which such execution issued, and shall immediately ad
vertise and sell said real estate, lands, and tenements agreeably to the provisions
of this act, but in no case shall he sell any such real estate, lands, or tenements for
less than two-thirds the appraised value of the interest of the person, persons, or
corporation again ;t whom the execution was issued, unless it appear from the ap
praisement under this act that the liens and incumbrances thereon equal or ex
ceed its real value in money.

SEC. 1494 (1494). This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its passage, but
shall not apply to executions which shall issue upon judgments already entered.
SEC. 494 (494). Nothing contained in this and the preceding sections of this title shall in anywise extend to affect the sale of any land by the state, but all lands
therein, the property of individuals indebted to the state for any debt or taxes,
or in any other manner, shall be sold without valuation for the discharge of such
debt or taxes, agreeably to the laws for such cases made and provided.
SEC. 495 (495). In all cases where real estate may hereafter be levied upon, by
virtue of any execution or order of sale, and shall have been appraised, and twice
advertised and offered for sale, and shall remain unsold for want of bidders, it
shall be the duty of the officer to cause a new appraisement of such real estate
to be made, and successive executions or orders of sale may issue at any time in
vacation, after the return of the officer "not sold for want of bidders," at the re
quest of the plaintiff or his attorney.
SEC. 496 (496). If the property of any clerk, sheriff, coroner, justice of the
peace, constable, or any collector of state, county, town or township tax, shall be
levied on, for or on account of any moneys that now are or may hereafter be by
them collected or received in their official capacity, the property so levied on shall
be sold without valuation.
SEC. 497 (497). Lands and tenements, taken in execution, shall not be sold until
the officer cause public notice of the time and place of sale to be given, for at least
thirty days before the day of sale, by advertisement in some newspaper printed
in the county, or, in case no newspaper be printed in the county, in some news
paper in general circulation therein, and by putting up an advertisement on the
court house door, arid in five other public places in the county, two of which shall
be in the precinct where such lands and tenements lie. All sales made without
such advertisement shall be set aside on motion, by the court to which the execu
tion is returnable.
SEC. 1499 (1499). The owners of any real estate against which a decree of foreclosure
has been rendered in any court of record, or any real estate levied upon to satisfy
any judgment or decree of any kind, may redeem the same from the lien of such
decree or levy at any time before the sale of the same shall be confirmed by a
court of competent jurisdiction by paying into court the amount of such decree or
judgment, together with all interests and costs ; and in case the said real estate has
been sold to any person not a party plaintiff to the suit, the person so redeeming
the same shall pay to said purchaser twelve per cent interest on the amount of the
purchase price from the date of the sale to the date of redemption, or deposit the
same with the clerk of the court where the decree or judgment was rendered.

SEC. 498 (498). If the court, upon the return of any writ of execution, or order
of sale for the satisfaction of which any lands and tenements have been sold, shall,
after having carefully examined the proceedings of the officer, be satisfied that the
sale has in all respects been made in conformity to the provisions of this title, the
court shall direct the clerk to make an entry on the journal that the court is satis
fied of the legality of such sale, and an order that the officer make to the purchaser
a deed of such lands and tenements ; and the officer on making such sale may re
tain the purchase money in his hands until the court shall have examined his pro
ceedings as aforesaid, when he shall pay the same to the person entitled thereto,
agreeable to the order of the court; * Provided, That the judge of any district
court may confirm any such sale at any time after such officer has made his return,
on motion and ten days' notice to the adverse party or his attorney of record, if
made in vacation. When any sale is confirmed in vacation, the judge confirming
the same shall cause his order to be entered on the journal by the clerk.

SEC. 499 (499). The sheriff or other officer, who, upon such writ or writs of ex
ecution, shall sell the said lands and tenements, or any part thereof, shall make to
the purchaser or purchasers thereof, as good and sufficient a deed of conveyance
of lands and tenements sold as the person or persons against whom such writ or
writs of execution were issued could have made of the same^ at the time they be
came liable to the judgment, or at any time thereafter.

SEC. 500 (500). The deed shall be sufficient evidence of the legality of such sale
and the proceedings therein until the contrary be proved, and shall vest in the pur
chaser as good and as perfect an estate in the premises therein mentioned as was
vested in the party at or after the time when such lands and tenements became
liable to the satisfaction of the judgment. And such deed of conveyance, to be
made by the sheriff or other officer, shall recite the execution or executions, or the
substance thereof, and the names of the parties, the amount, and date of term of
rendition of each judgment, by virtue whereof the said lands and tenements were
sold as aforesaid ; and shall be executed, acknowledged and recorded as is or may
be provided by law, to perfect the conveyance of real estate in other cases.

SEC. 501 (501). The officer who levies upon goods and chattels, or lands and
tenements, or who is charged with the duty of selling the same by virtue of any
writ or execution, may refuse to publish a notice of the sale thereof by advertise
ment in a newspaper until the party for whose benefit such execution issued, his
agent or attorney, shall advance to such officer so much money as will be sufficient
to discharge the fees of the printer for publishing such notice.
SEC. 502 (502). Before any officer shall be excused from giving the notifica
tion mentioned in the last section, he shall demand of the party for whose bene
fit the execution was issued, his agent or attorney, (provided either of them re
sides in the county), the fees in said section specified.
SEC. 503 (503). All sales of lands or tenements under execution shall be held at
the court house, if there be one in the county in which such lands and tenements
are situated, and if there be no court house, then at the door of the house in
which the district court was last held. No sheriff or other officer making the sale
of property, either personal or real, or any appraiser of such property, shall, either
directly or indirectly, purchase the same; and every purchase so made shall be
considered fraudulent and void.
SEC. 504 (504). If lands and tenements levied on as aforesaid are not sold upon
one execution, other executions may be issued to sell the lands so levied upon.
SEC. 505 (505). In all cases when two or more executions shall be put into the
hands of any sheriff or other officer, and it shall be necessary to levy on real estate
to satisfy the same, and either of the judgment creditors in whose favor one or
more of said executions is issued shall require the sheriff, or other officer, to make
a separate levy to satisfy his execution or executions, it shall be the duty of the
sheriff, or other officer, to levy said executions, or so many thereof as may be re
quired, on separate parcels of real property of the judgment debtor or debtors,
giving to the officer making the levy on behalf of the creditor, whose execution
may, by the provisions of this chapter, be entitled to a preference, the choice of
such part of the real property of the judgment debtor or debtors, as will be suf
ficient, at two-thirds of the appraised value, to satisfy the same. And in all cases
where two or more executions, which are entitled to no preference over each
other, are put into the hands of the same officer, it shall be the duty of the officer,
when required, to levy the same on separate parcels of real property of the judg
ment debtor or debtors, when, in the opinion of the appraisers, the same may be
divided without material injury; and if the real property of said debtors will not
be sufficient, at two-thirds of its appraised value, to satisfy all the executions
chargeable thereon, such part of the same shall be levied on to satisfy each ex
ecution as will bear the same proportion in value to the whole as the amount due
on the execution bears to the amount of all the executions chargeable thereon, as
near as may be, according to the appraised value of each separate parcel of said
real property.
SEC. 506 (506). If the term of service of the sheriff, or other officer, who has
made or shall hereafter make sale of any lands and tenements, shall expire, or
the sheriff or other officer shall be absent, or be rendered unable, by death or other
wise, to make a deed of conveyance of the same, any succeeding sheriff or other
officer, on receiving a certificate from the court from which the execution issued,
for the sale of said lands and tenements, signed by the clerk, by order of said
court, setting forth that sufficient proof has been made to the court that such sale
was fairly and legally made, and on tender of the purchase money, or if the same
or any part thereof be paid, then, on proof of such payment and tender of the bal
ance, if any, may execute to the said purchaser or purchasers, or his or their legal
representatives, a deed of conveyance of said lands and tenements so sold. Such
deed shall be as good and valid in law and have the same effect as if the sheriff
or other officer who made sale had executed the same.

SEC. 507 (507). If, on any sale made as aforesaid, there shall be in the hands of
the sheriff or other officer more money than is sufficient to satisfy the writ or
writs of execution, with interest and costs, the sheriff or other officer shall, on de
mand, pay the balance to the defendant in execution, or his legal representatives.

SEC. 508 (508). If any judgment or judgments, in satisfaction of which any
lands or tenements are sold, shall at any time thereafter be reversed, such re
versal shall not defeat or affect the title of the purchaser Qr purchasers ; but, in
such case, restitution shall be made by the judgment creditor, of the moneys for
which such lands or tenements were sold, with lawful interest from the day of
sale.
SEC. 509 (509). No judgment heretofore rendered, or which hereafter may be
rendered, on which execution shall not have been taken out and levied before the
expiration of five years next after its rendition, shall operate as a lien upon the
estate of any debtor, to the preference of any other bona fide judgment creditor
SEC. or purchaser (or purchaser).; but in all cases where judgment has been or may be rendered
in the supreme court, and any special mandate awarded to the district court to
carry the same into execution, the lien of the judgment creditor shall continue
for five years after the first day of the next term of the district court to which
such mandate may be directed. Nothing in this section contained shall be con
strued to defeat the lien of any judgment creditor who shall fail to take out ex
ecution and cause a levy to be made as herein provided, when such failure shall
be occasioned by appeal, proceedings in error, injunction or by a vacancy in the
office of sheriff and coroner, or the inability of such officers until one year after
such disability shall be removed. In all cases where real estate has been or may
hereafter be taken on execution and appraised and twice advertised and offered
for sale, and shall remain unsold for want of bidders, .it shall be the duty of the
court from which such execution issued, on application of the plaintiff to set
aside such appraisement and order a new one to be made, or to set aside such levy
and appraisement and award a new execution to issue, as the case may require.

SEC. 510 (510). The sheriff or other officer, to whom any writ of execution shall
be directed, shall return such writ to the court to which the same is returnable,
within sixty days from the date thereof.
SEC. 511 (511). In all cases where judgment is rendered in any court of record
within this state, upon any other instrument of writing, in which two or more
persons are jointly and severally bound, and it shall be made to appear to the court,
by parol or other testimony, that one or more of said persons so bound signed the
same as surety or bail for his or their co-defendant, it shall be the duty of the
clerk of said court, in recording the judgment thereon, to certify which of the de
fendants is principal debtor, and which are sureties or bail. And the clerk of the
court aforesaid shall issue execution on such judgment, commanding the sheriff
or other officer to cause the money to be made of the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, of the principal debtor, but for want of sufficient property or the prin
cipal debtor to make the same, that he cause the same to be made of the goods and
chattels, lands and tenements, of the surety or bail. In all cases the property, both
personal and real, of the principal debtor, within the jurisdiction of the court,
shall be exhausted before any of the property of the surety or bail shall be taken
in execution.

SEC. 512 (512). Each freeholder, summoned to appraise real estate under the
provisions of this chapter, shall be allowed and receive for his services the sum of
fifty cents, for each day he may be so engaged as such appraiser, to be collected on
the execution, by virtue of which the property appraised was levied on, if claimed
at the time of making the return of such> appraisement. And when any free
holder, summoned as aforesaid, shall fail to appear at the time and place appointed
by the officer, and discharge his duty as appraiser, he shall, on complaint being
made to any justice of the peace of the precinct in which such freeholder resides,
forfeit and pay the sum of fifty cents for every such neglect, unless he can render
a reasonable excuse. Such sum shall be collected by said justice, and paid into the
county treasury for the use of the county.
SEC. 513 (513). If any sheriff or other officer shall refuse or neglect to execute
any writ of execution to him directed, which has come to his hands ; or shall neg
lect or refuse to sell any goods and chattels, lands and tenements ; or shall neglect
to call an inquest, and return a copy thereof forthwith to the clerk's office; or
shall neglect to return any writ of execution to the proper court, on or before the
return day thereof ; or shall neglect to return a just and perfect inventory of all
and singular the goods and chattels by him taken in execution, unless the said sher
iff or other officer shall return, that he has levied and made the amount of the debt,
damages and costs ; or shall refuse or neglect on demand to pay over to the plain
tiff, his agent or attorney of record, all moneys by him collected or received, for
the use of said party, at any time after collecting or receiving the same, except
as provided in section four hundred and ninety-eight tI5°°]'. or shall neglect or
refuse, on demand made by the defendant, his agent or attorney of record, to pay
over all moneys by him received for any sale made, beyond what is sufficient to
satisfy the writ or writs of execution, with interest and legal costs, such sheriff or
other officer shall, on motion in court and two days' notice thereof in writing, be
amerced in the amount of said debt, damages and costs, with ten per centum
thereon, to and for the use of said plaintiff or defendant, as the case may be.

SEC. 514 (514). If any clerk of a court shall neglect or refuse, on demand made
by the person entitled thereto, his agent, or attorney of record, to pay over all
money by him received, in his official capacity, for the use of such person, every
such clerk may be amerced ; and the proceedings against him and his sureties
shall be the same as provided for in the foregoing section against sheriffs and
their sureties.
SEC. 515 (515). When the cause of amercement is for refusing to pay over
money collected as aforesaid, the said sheriff or other officer shall not be amerced
in a greater sum than the amount so withheld, with ten per centum thereon.
SEC. 516 (516). When execution shall be issued in any county in this state, and
directed to the sheriff or coroner of another county, it shall be lawful for such
sheriff or coroner having the execution, after having discharged all the duties re
quired of him by law, to inclose such execution, by mail, to the clerk of the court
who issued the same. On proof being made by such sheriff or coroner that the ex
ecution was mailed soon enough to have reached the office where it was issued
within the time prescribed by law, the sheriff or coroner shall not be liable for any
amercement or penalty if it do not reach the office in due time.

SEC. 517 (517). No sheriff shall forward by mail, any money made on any such
execution, unless he shall be specially instructed to do it by the plaintiff, his agent,
or attorney of record. In all cases of a motion to amerce a sheriff or other of
ficer of any county other than the one from which the execution issued, notice in
writing shall be given to such officer, as hereinbefore required, by leaving it with
him, or at his office, at least fifteen days before the first day of the term at which
such motion shall be made, or by transmitting the notice by mail at least sixty days
prior to the first day of the term at which such motion shall be made. All amerce
ments, so procured, shall be entered on the record of the court, and shall have the
same force and effect as a judgment.
SEC. 518 (518). Each and every surety of any sheriff or other officer may be
made a party to the judgment rendered as aforesaid, against the sheriff or other
officer, by action, to be commenced and prosecuted as in other cases. But the
goods and chattels, lands and tenements of any such surety shall not be liable to
be taken on execution, when sufficient goods and chattels, lands and tenements
of the sheriff or other officer, against whom execution may be issued, can be
found to satisfy the same. Nothing herein contained shall prevent either party
from proceeding against such sheriff or other officer by attachment, at his
election.
SEC. 519 (519). In cases where a sheriff or other officer may be amerced, and
shall not have collected the amount of the original judgment, he shall be per
mitted to sue out an execution, and collect the amount of said judgment in the
name of the original plaintiff, for his own use.

SEC. 521 (521). All heads of families, who have neither lands, town lots, or
houses subject to exemption as a homestead, under the laws of this state, shall
have exempt from forced sale on execution the sum of five hundred dollars in
personal property.

SEC. 522 (522). Any person desiring to avail himself of the exemption as pro
vided for in the preceding section, must file an inventory, under oath, in the court
where the judgment is obtained, or with the officer holding the execution, of the
whole of the personal property owned by him or them, at any time before the sale
of the property ; and it shall be the duty of the officer to whom the execution is
directed, to call to his assistance three disinterested freeholders of the county
where the property may be, who, after being duly sworn by said officer, shall ap
praise said property at its cash value.

SEC. 523 (523). Upon such inventory and appraisement being completed, the de
fendant in execution, or his authorized agent, may select from such inventory an
amount of such property, not exceeding, according to such appraisal, the amount
or value herein exempted, but if neither such defendant nor his agent shall ap
pear and make such selection, the officer shall make the same for him.
SEC. 524 (524). Nothing in this subdivision shall be considered as exempting
any real or personal property from levy and sale for taxes.
SEC. 529 (529). Nothing in this subdivision shall be considered as exempting
any real estate from taxation or sale for taxes.
SEC. 530 (530). [Chattels exempt.] —No property hereinafter mentioned shall
be liable to attachment, execution or sale on any final process issued from any
court in this state, against any person being a resident of this state and the head
of a family: First—The family Bible. Second—Family pictures, school books
and library for the use of the family. Third—A seat or pew in any house or place
of public worship. Fourth—A lot in any burial ground. Fifth-—All necessary
wearing apparel of the debtor and his family. All beds, bedsteads and bedding
necessary for the use of such family. All stoves and appendages put up or kept
for the use of the debtor and his family, not to exceed four. All cooking uten
sils, and all other household furniture not herein enumerated, to be selected by
the debtor, not exceeding in value one hundred dollars. Sixth—One cow, three
hogs, and all pigs under six months old, and if the debtor be at the time actually
engaged in the business of agriculture, in addition to the above, one yoke of oxen,
or a pair of horses in lieu thereof ; ten sheep, and the wool therefrom, either in
the raw material or manufactured into yarn or cloth ; the necessary food for the
stock mentioned in this section, for the period of three months ; one wagon, cart
or dray, two plows and one drag ; the necessary gearing for the team herein ex
empted; and other farming implements not exceeding fifty dollars in value.
Seventh—The provisions for the debtor and his family necessary for six months'
support, either provided or growing, or both, and fuel necessary for six months.
Eighth—The tools and instruments of any mechanic, miner or other person, used
and kept for the purpose of carrying on his trade or business. The library and
implements of any professional man. All of which articles hereinbefore intended
to be exempt, shall be chosen by the debtor, his agent, clerk or legal representative,
as the case may be.

SEC. 531 (531). Nothing in this chapter shall be so construed as to exempt any
property in this state from execution or attachment for clerks', laborers', or me
chanics' wages for money due and owing by an attorney at law for money or
other valuable consideration received by said attorney for any person or persons,
* nor shall anything in this chapter be construed to exempt from execution or at
tachment property of the value of more than five hundred dollars ($500) for any
debt contracted by any person in the purchase of the actual necessaries of life
for himself or family, or for any person or persons who were at the time of con
tracting such debt dependent upon such person purchasing the same for support;
Provided, That where the debt contracted therefor shall be deemed the debt of
both husband and wife; And provided, further, That nothing herein contained
shall be construed to exempt in the aggregate more than five hundred dollars
worth of personal property to both husband and wife.
SEC. 1529 (1529). The wages of laborers, mechanics, and clerks who are heads of fami
lies, in the hands of those by whom such laborers, mechanics, or clerks may be
employed, both before and after such wages shall be due, shall be exempt from
the operation of attachment, execution and garnishee process ; Provided, That not
more than sixty days' wages shall be exempt ; Provided further, That nothing in
this act shall be so construed as to protect the wages of persons who have or are
about to abscond or leave the state from the provisions of law now in force upon
that subject; Provided further, That nothing in this act shall be so construed as
to permit the attachment of sixty days' wages in the hands of the employer.

SEC. 1530 (1530). That in addition to the exemptions now provided for by the code of
civil procedure, there shall also be exempt from levy and sale upon execution or
attachment, to every resident of the state of Nebraska, who became disabled in
the service of the United States as a soldier, sailor, or marine, all pension money
hereafter received and all property hereafter purchased and improved exclusively
therewith, not exceeding two thousand dollars ($2,000) in value, of and belonging
to such soldier, sailor or marine.

SEC. 1531 (1531). That it be and is hereby declared unlawful for any creditor of, or
other holder of any evidence of debt, book account, or claim of any name or nature
against any laborer, servant, clerk, or other employee, of any corporation, firm or
individual, in this state, for the purpose below stated, to sell, assign, transfer, or
by any means dispose of any such claim, book account, bill, or debt of any name or
nature whatever, to any person or persons, firm, corporation or institution, or to
institute, in this state or elsewhere, or prosecute any suit or action for any such
claim or debt against any such laborer, servant, clerk or employee by any process
seeking to seize, attach, or garnish the wages of such person or persons earned
within sixty days prior to the commencement of such proceeding, for the pur
pose of avoiding the effect of the laws of the state of Nebraska concerning ex
emptions.

SEC. 1532 (1532). That it is hereby declared unlawful for any person or persons to aid,
assist, abet or counsel a violation of section one of this act for any purpose what
ever.

SEC. 1533 (1533). In any proceeding, civil or criminal, growing out of a breach of sec
tions one or two of this act, proof of the institution of a suit or service of garnish
ment summons by any persons, firm, or individual, in any court of any state or
territory other than this state, or in this state to seize by process of garnishment
or otherwise, any of the wages of such persons as defined in section one of this
act, shall be deemed prima facie evidence of an evasion of the laws of the state
of Nebraska and a breach of the provisions of this act on the part of the creditor
or resident in Nebraska causing the same to be done.
SEC. 1534 (1534). Any persons, firm, company, corporation or business institution guilty
of a violation of sections one or two of this act shall be liable to the party injured
through such violation of this act for the amount of the debt sold, assigned, trans
ferred, garnisheed or sued upon, with all costs and expenses and a reasonable at
torney's fee, to be recovered in any court of competent jurisdiction in this state;
and shall further be liable by prosecution to punishment by a fine not exceeding
the sum of two hundred dollars and costs of prosecution.
SEC. 532 (532). Where a judgment debtor has not personal or real property sub
ject to levy on execution, sufficient to satisfy the judgment, any interest which he
may have in any banking, turnpike, bridge, or other joint stock company, or any
interest he may have in any money, contracts, claims or choses in action, due or to
become due to him, or in any judgment or decree, or any money, goods or effects
which he may have in possession of any person, body politic or corporate, shall be
subject to the payment of such judgment by proceedings in equity, or as in this chapter prescribed.

SEC. 1536 (1536). Stock in corporations owned by the judgment debtor, or the de
fendant in attachment proceedings, may be levied upon under executions or writs
of attachment, and the mode of levy shall be as follows.

SEC. 1537 (1537). Stock in a corporation shall be levied upon by notifying in writ
ing the president, vice-president, secretary, cashier, or other managing agent at
the usual place of business of said corporation, that the stock has been levied upon
under the writ held by the officer.
SEC. 533 (533). When an execution against the property of a judgment debtor,
or one of several debtors in the same judgment, is issued to the sheriff of a
county where he resides, or if he do not reside in the state, to the sheriff of the
county where the judgment was rendered, or a transcript of a justice's judgment
has been filed, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor is
entitled to an order from a probate judge or a judge of the district court of the
county to which the execution was issued, requiring such debtor to appear and
answer concerning his property, before such judge, or a referee appointed by such
judge, at a time and place specified in such order, within the county to which the
execution was issued.
SEC. 534 (534). After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon
proof by affidavit of the judgment creditor or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the
district court or a judge thereof, or a probate judge of the county in which the
order may be served, that the judgment debtor has property which he unjustly re
fuses to apply toward the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may,
by order, require the judgment creditor to appear at a time and place in said
county to answer concerning the same. And such proceedings may thereupon be
had for the application of the property of the judgment debtor towards the satis
faction of the judgment as are prescribed in this chapter.
SEC. 535 (535). Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment
debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the judge may, upon proof to his sat
isfaction, by affidavit of the party, or otherwise, that there is danger of the debtor
leaving the state or concealing himself to avoid the examination herein mentioned,
issue a warrant, requiring the sheriff to arrest him and bring him before such
judge within the county in which the debtor may be arrested. Such warrant can
be issued only by a probate judge, or a judge in the district court of the county in
which such debtor resides or may be arrested. Upon being brought before the
judge, he shall be examined on oath, and other witnesses may be examined on
either side, and if on such examination it appear that there is danger of the debtor
leaving the state, and that he has property which he unjustly refuses to apply to
such judgment, he may be ordered to enter into an undertaking, in such sum as
the judge may prescribe, with one or more sureties, that he will from time to time
attend for examination before the judge or referee as shall be directed. In default
of entering into such undertaking, he may be committed to the jail of the county
by warrant of the judge, as for a contempt.

SEC. 536 (536). No person shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter, be
excused from answering any question on the ground that his examination will
tend to convict him of a fraud, but his answer shall not be used as evidence
against him in a prosecution for such fraud.
SEC. 537 (537). After the issuing of execution against property, any person in
debted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount of his debt,
or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff's
receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid or directed to be
credited by the judgment creditor on the execution.

SEC. 538 (538). After the issuing or return of an execution against property of
the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, and
upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that any
person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to
him, the judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or any officer
or member thereof, to appear, at a specified time and place, within the county in
which such person or corporation may be served with the order to answer, and
answer concerning the same. The judge may also, in his discretion, require notice
of such proceeding to be given to any party in the action, in such manner as may
seem to him proper.
SEC. 539 (539). Witnesses may be required, upon the order of the judge, or by
a subpoena issued by the clerk of the district court, to appear and testify upon any
proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.

SEC. 540 (540). The party or witness may be required to attend before the
judge or before a referee appointed by the court or judge. If before a referee, tne
examination must be taken by the referee and certified by the judge. All exam
inations and answers before a judge or referee under this chapter must be on oath,
but when a corporation answers, the answer must be on the oath of an officer
thereof.

SEC. 541 (541). The judge may order any property of the judgment debtor, not
exempt by law, in the hands of either himself or any other person or corporation,
or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judg
ment ; but the earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at any time within
three months next preceding the order, can not be so applied, where it is made to
appear, by the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for
the use of a family supported wholly or partly by his labor.

SEC. 542 (542). The judge may also, by order, appoint the sheriff of the proper
county, or other suitable person, a receiver of the property of the judgment
debtor, in the same manner and with the like authority as if the appointment was
made by the court. The judge may also, by order, forbid a transfer or other dis
position of the property of the judgment debtor, not exempt by law, and any in
terference therewith.

SEC. 543 (543). If the sheriff shall be appointed receiver, he and his sureties
shall be liable on his official bond for the faithful discharge of his duties as such
receiver ; if any other person shall be appointed receiver, he shall give a written
undertaking, in such sum as shall be prescribed by the judge, with one or more
sureties, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge his duties of receiver, and he
shall also take an oath to the same effect before acting as such receiver. The un
dertaking mentioned in this section shall be to the state of Nebraska, and actions
may be prosecuted for a breach thereof, by any person interested, in the same
manner as upon a sheriff's official bond.
SEC. 544 (544). The judge or referee, acting under the provisions of this chap
ter, shall have power to continue his proceedings from time to time until they are
completed.
SEC. 545 (545). The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a referee
agreed upon or appointed by him, to report the evidence of the facts.
SEC. 546 (546). If any person, party, or witness disobey an order of the judge,
or referee, duly served, such person, party, or witness may be punished by the
judge as for contempt, * and if a party, he shall be committed to the jail of the
county wherein the proceedings are pending, until he shall comply with such
order ; or, in case he has, since the service of such order upon him, rendered it im
possible for him to comply therewith, until he has restored to the oposite party
what such party has lost by such disobedience, or until discharged by due course
of law.
SEC. 547 (547). The orders to judgment debtors and witnesses, provided for in
this chapter, shall be in writing and signed by the judge making the same, and
shall be served as a summons in other cases. The judge shall reduce all his orders
to writing, which, together with a minute of his proceedings, signed by himself,
shall be filed with the clerk of the court of the county in which the judgment is
rendered, or the transcript of the justice filed, and the clerk shall enter on his exe
cution docket the time of filing the same.

SEC. 548 (548). The judge shall allow to clerks, sheriffs, referees, receivers, and
witnesses such compensation as is allowed for like services in other cases, to be
taxed at costs in the case, and shall enforce by order the collection thereof from
such party or parties as ought to pay the same.
SEC. 549 (549). The probate judge shall be allowed for his services, under this chapter, the sum of three dollars in each case, and such fees as are allowed by law
to clerks of the district court for similar services.

SEC. 550 (550). An execution against the person of a judgment debtor, shall
require the officer to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail of the county
until he pay the judgment, or be discharged according to law.

SEC. 551 (551). An execution against the person of the debtor may be issued
upon any judgment for the payment of money. First—When the judgment debtor
has removed, or begun to remove any of his property out of the jurisdiction of
the court, with intent to prevent the collection of the money due on the judgment.
Second—When he has property, rights in action, evidences of debt, or some in
terest or stock in some corporation or company, which he fraudulently conceals
with the like intent. Third—When he has assigned or disposed of all or any part
of his property, or rights in action, or has converted the same into money, with
intent to defraud his creditors, or with the intent to prevent such property from
being taken in execution. Fourth—When he fraudulently contracted the debt or
incurred the obligation upon which the judgment was rendered. Fifth—When
be was arrested on an order before judgment, and has not been discharged as an
insolvent debtor, or the order has not been set aside as improperly made.

SEC. 552 (552). An execution against the person of the debtor can be issued only
when the same is allowed by the supreme court, district court, or probate court,
or any judge of either, upon being satisfied, by the affidavit of the judgment
creditor or his attorney, and such other evidence as may be presented, of the ex
istence of one or more of the particulars mentioned in the last preceding section.

SEC. 553 (553). A justice of the peace may issue an execution against the per
son of a judgment debtor, upon being satisfied of the existence of one or more of
the same particulars, by the like affidavit and evidence.
SEC. 554 (554). I" all cases in which the judgment debtor was arrested before
judgment, and where the order for such arrest has not been adjudged improper,
an execution against the person of such judgment debtor may issue of course.
SEC. 555 (555). Any person taken in execution as aforesaid, shall be discharged
by delivering or setting off to the officer serving the same, if issued from a court of
record, real or personal property, if issued from a justice of the peace, personal
property only, sufficient to satisfy the judgment and costs for which the writ
issued.
SEC. 556 (556). The death of a person under arrest in an action does not satisfy
the judgment, but an execution may issue thereon, as if the arrest had been made.
SEC. 557 (557). If a person imprisoned under an order of arrest made before
judgment is not charged in execution within ten days after judgment, he shall be
discharged from such imprisonment.
SEC. 558 (558). In cases of commitment under this chapter, or upon arrest be
fore or after judgment in civil cases, the person imprisoned, in case of his in
ability to perform the act or endure the imprisonment, may be discharged from
imprisonment by the court or judge committing him, or the court or judge
thereof in which the judgment was or might be rendered, on such terms as may
be just.
SEC. 559 (559). If the execution be for the delivery of the possession of real
property, it shall require the officer fo deliver the same, particularly describing
the property, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require the
officer to satisfy any costs or damages recovered in the same judgment, out of the
gfoods and chattels of the party against whom it was rendered, and for want of
such goods and chattels, then out of the lands and tenements, and in this respect
it shall be deemed an execution against the property.

SEC. 560 (560). When the judgment is not for the recovery of money or real
property, the same may be enforced by attachment by the court rendering the
judgment, upon motion made, or by a rule of the court upon the defendant; but
in either case, notice of the motion, or a service of a copy of the rule, shall be
made on the defendant a reasonable time before the order of attachment is made.
SEC. 561 (561). In all cases in which judgments shall be rendered by a justice
of the peace, the party in whose favor the judgment shall be rendered may file a
transcript of such judgment in the office of the clerk of the district court of the
county in which the judgment was rendered, and thereupon the clerk shall, on the
day on which the same shall be filed, enter the case on the execution docket, to
gether with the amount of the judgment and the time of filing the transcript.

SEC. 562 (562). Such judgment, if the transcript shall be filed in term time,
shall have a lien on the real estate of the judgment debtor from the day of the
filing; if filed in vacation, as against the judgment debtor said judgment shall
have a lien from the day of the filing, and as against subsequent judgment cred
itors from the first day of the next succeeding term, in the same manner and to the
same extent as if the judgment had been rendered in the district court

SEC. 563 (563). Execution may be issued thereon to the sheriff by the clerk of
the court, in the same manner as if the judgment had been taken in court, and the
sheriff shall execute and return the same as other executions ; and in case of sale
of real estate, his proceedings shall be examined and approved by the court, as in
other cases.
SEC. 564 (564). The justice of the peace shall certify on the transcript the
amount, if any, paid on such judgment. The costs of the transcript, the filing of
the same, and the entry of the case on the execution docket, shall be paid by the
party filing the same, and not be taxed to the other party.
SEC. 565 (565). The defendant in an action for the recovery of money only,
may, at any time before the trial, serve upon the plaintiff, or his attorney, an offer
in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum specified
therein. If the plaintiff accept the offer, and give notice thereof to the defendant
or his attorney, within five days after the offer was served, the offer, and an affi
davit that the notice of acceptance was delivered in the time limited, may be filed
by the plaintiff, or the defendant may file the acceptance, with a copy of the offer
verified by affidavit ; and, in either case, the offer and acceptance shall be noted
in the journal, and judgment shall be rendered accordingly. If the notice of ac
ceptance be not given irt the period limited, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn,
and shall not be given in evidence, or mentioned on the trial. If the plaintiff fails
to obtain judgment for more than was offered by the defendant, he shall pay the
defendant's costs from the time of the offer.

SEC. 566 (566). The making of an offer pursuant to the provisions contained in
the foregoing section, shall not be a cause for a continuance of an action, or a post
ponement of a trial.
SEC. 567 (567). Parties to a question which might be the subject of a civil action,
may, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the con
troversy depends, and present a submission of the same to any court which would
have jurisdiction, if an action had been brought. But it must appear by affidavit
that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the
rights of the parties. The court shall, thereupon, hear and determine the case and
render judgment, as if an action were pending.
SEC. 568 (568). The case, the submission and the judgment shall constitute the
record.
SEC. 569 (569). The judgment shall be with costs, may be enforced, and shall be
subject to reversal, in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, un
less otherwise provided in the submission.
SEC. 570 (570). After an action for the recovery of money is brought, the de
fendant may offer in court to confess judgment for part of the amount claimed, or part of the causes involved in the action. Whereupon, if the plaintiff, being pres
ent, refuse to accept such confession of judgment in full of his demands against
the defendant in the action, or having had such notice that the offer would be
made, of its amount, and of the time of making it, as the court shall deem reason
able, fail to attend, and on the trial, do not recover more than was so offered to be
confessed, such plaintiff shall pay all the costs of the defendant incurred after the
offer. The offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of action or
amount to which the plaintiff is entitled, nor be given in evidence upon the trial.
SEC. 571 (571). Before an action for the recovery of money is brought against
any person, he may go into the court of the county of his residence, or of that in
which the person having the cause of action resides, whieh would have jurisdic
tion of the action, and offer to confess judgment in favor of such person for a
specified sum on such cause of action. Whereupon, if such person, having had
such notice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and of the time and place
of making it, as the court shall deem reasonable, do not attend to accept the con
fession, or attending, refuse to accept it, and should afterwards commence an
action upon such cause, and not recover more than the amount so offered to be
confessed, he shall pay all the costs of the action ; and on the trial thereof, the
offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of action, or amount to
which the plaintiff is entitled, nor be given in evidence.

SEC. 572 (572). A motion is an application for an order addressed to the court or
a judge in vacation, by any party to a suit or proceeding, or one interested therein.
SEC. 573 (573). Several objects may be included in the same motion, if they all
grow out of or are connected with the action or proceeding in which it is made.
SEC. 574 (574). Where notice of a motion is required, it must be in writing, and
shall state the names of the parties to the action or proceeding in which it is to
be made, the name of the court or judge before whom it is to be made, the place
where and the day on which it will be heard, the nature and terms of the order or
orders to be applied for, and if affidavits are to be used on the hearing, the notice
shall state that fact. It shall be served a reasonable time before the hearing.

SEC. 575 (575). Notices of motions mentioned in this chapter may be served by
a sheriff, coroner or constable, or by any disinterested person, and the return of
any such officer, or affidavit of any such person, shall be proof of service. The
service shall be on the party or his attorney of record, if the said party or his at
torney be resident within the county in which the motion is made, and in case there
is more than one party adverse to such motion, service shall be made upon each
party or his attorney.

SEC. 576 (576). The service of a notice shall be made, as is required by law for
the service of a summons, and when served by an officer, he shall be entitled to
like fees.

SEC. 577 (577). Motions to strike pleadings and papers from the files may be
made with or without notice, as the court or judge shall direct.
SEC. 578 (578). Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered in writing
and not mcluded in a judgment, is an order.
SEC. 579 (579). Orders made out of court, shall be forthwith entered by the
clerk in the journal of the court, in the same manner as orders made in term.
SEC. 580 (580). A judgment rendered, or final order made, by a probate- court,
justice of the peace or any other tribunal, board or officer exercising judicial func
tions, and inferior in jurisdiction to the district court, may be reversed, vacated or
modified by the district court.
SEC. 581 (581). An order affecting a substantial right in an action, when such
order in effect determines the action and prevents a judgment, and an order affect
ing a substantial right made in a special proceeding, or upon a summary applica
tion in an action after judgment, is a final order which may be vacated, modified
or reversed, as provided in this title.

SEC. 582 (582). A judgment rendered or final order made by the district court,
may be reversed, vacated or modified by the supreme court, for errors appearing
on the record.

SEC. 584 (584). The proceedings to obtain such reversal, vacation, or modifica
tion shall be by petition, entitled "petition in error," filed in the court having power
to make such reversal, vacation, or modification, setting forth the errors complained
of, and thereupon a summons shall issue and be served, or publication made, as in
the commencement of an action. A service on the attorney of record in the
original case shall be sufficient. The summons shall notify the adverse party that
a petition in error has been filed in a certain case, naming it, and shall be return
able on or before the first day of the next term of the court, if issued in vacation,
and twenty days before the commencement of the term ; if issued in term time, or
within twenty days before the commencement of the term, it shall be returnable
on a day named in said summons. In all cases in the supreme court, if a cause be
docketed twenty days or more before the next succeeding term it shall stand for
hearing at said term. If less than twenty days intervene the cause shall not stand
for trial, except by consent of all the parties thereto, until the second term after
the docketing of said cause, except causes brought before the court in the exercise
of its original jurisdiction.

SEC. 585 (585). The summons mentioned in the last section, shall, upon the
written precipe of the plaintiff in error or his attorney, be issued by the clerk of
the court in which the petition is filed, to the sheriff of any county in which the
defendant in error or his attorney of record may be ; and if the writ issue to a
foreign county, the sheriff thereof may return the same by mail, to the clerk, and
shall be entitled to the same fees as if the same had been returnable to the district
court of the county in which such officer resides. The defendant in error, or his
attorney, may waive in writing the issuing or service of the summons.

SEC. 586 (586). The plaintiff in error shall file with his petition a transcript of
the proceedings containing the final judgment or order sought to be reversed, va
cated, or modified. * No written or printed abstract or any copy of an abstract of
the record shall be required in any case in the supreme court of this state.
SEC. 587 (587). Judges of probate courts, justices of the peace, and other judicial
tribunals having no clerk, and clerks of every court of record, shall, upon request
and being paid the lawful fees therefor, furnish an authenticated transcript of the
proceedings, containing the judgment or final order of said courts, to either of the
parties to the same, or to any person interested in procuring such transcript
SEC. 1593 (1593). That in all cases or proceedings now pending or hereafter to be brought
in any district court of this state, as well as in all cases or proceedings that have
been finally adjudicated in any of said courts within six months next prior to the
date of the passage of this act, which it is sought or desired to remove to the
supreme court of this state, on proceedings in error, or by appeal in equity in the
manner now prescribed by law, it shall not be necessary to copy the bill, or bills of
exception, or the deposition, testimony, and proof in cases that have been pre
served in form similar to bills of exception or otherwise, as contemplated by an act
passed March 3, 1873, entitled "An act to provide for appeals in actions in equity,"
taken or used in any such case of proceedings into the transcript or record for the
supreme court, but such original bills of exception and testimony in equity and
cases at law so as aforesaid preserved, shall be, on the request of any party desir
ing to so prosecute such case or proceeding to the supreme court, attached to the
transcript or record of such other parts of the record in the case or proceeding as
may be desired by such party, and the transcript or record for the supreme court,
so made up, shall be received in all respects as if the said bill or bills of exceptions
or depositions, testimony, and proof in equity cases so as aforesaid properly pre
served were copied into such transcript or record for the supreme court

SEC. 1594 (1594). And it is further enacted that when the original bill or bills of excep
tions, or testimony in equity and law cases, is so as aforesaid made a part of a
transcript or record for the supreme court, the clerk shall state such fact in his
certificate thereto, and omit to certify that the same have been copied into such
record or transcript.

SEC. 1595 (1595). When any case or proceeding in which the record or transcript has been
so as aforesaid made up, shall have been finally determined in the supreme court,
the said original bill or bills of exception, and testimony, shall be by the clerk of
the supreme court transmitted to the clerk of the district court below, whence such
case or proceeding was removed, on the request of any party to the suit or pro
ceeding, provided the cost of the transmittal thereof shall be first paid to said slerk
of the supreme court if he shall demand it, by the party applying therefor.

SEC. 1596 (1596). In the event a rehearing of any such cause or proceeding shall be allowed
by the supreme court, or if for any other reason said court shall need or desire the
use of such original bill or bills of exception or testimony in equity and law cases,
it is hereby authorized to order the return of the same to it, and it shall be the
duty of the clerk of the court in whose custody the same may be to transmit the
same to the clerk of the supreme court upon being personally served with a copy
of such order of the supreme court, duly certified under the seal of the court, and
the expense of the transmittal of such bills and testimony, together with the costs
made in recording, certifying, and serving such order shall be taxed to the unsuc
cessful party to such suit or proceeding unless the supreme court shall otherwise
order ; Provided, That the party at whose instance such expense of transmittal is
to be made shall advance the same to the clerk who is desired to incur such ex
pense if required by him. Service of such certified copy of said order may be
made by any person. If done by the sheriff of any county, his official return shall
be sufficient evidence of the fact of service. If by any other person, the serviec shall
be sufficiently proved by his affidavit to the fact.

SEC. 588 (588). No proceeding to reverse, vacate, or modify any judgment or
final order rendered in the probate court, or district court, except as provided in the
next section, and the fourth subdivision of this section, shall operate to stay exe
cution, unless the clerk of the court in which the record of said judgment or final
order shall be shall take a written undertaking, to be executed on the part of the
plaintiff in error to the adverse party, with one or more sufficient sureties, as fol
lows: First—When the judgment or final order sought to be reversed directs the
payment of money, the written undertaking shall be in double the amount of the
judgment or order, to the effects that the plaintiff in error will pay the considera
tion* money and costs in case the judgment or final order shall be affirmed in
whole or in part. Second—When it directs the execution of a conveyance or other
instrument, the undertaking shall be in such sum as may be prescribed by any court
of record in this state, or any judge thereof, to the effect that the plaintiff in error
will abide the judgment, if the same shall be affirmed, and pay the costs. Third—
When it directs the sale or delivery of possession of real property, the under
taking shall be in such sum as may be prescribed by any court of record, or any
judge thereof, to the effect that during the possession of such property by the
plaintiff in error he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon,
and if the judgment be affirmed he will pay the value of the use and occupation of
the property, from the date of the undertaking until the delivery of the possession
pursuant to the judgment, and all costs. Fourth—When it directs the assign
ment or delivery of documents, they may be placed in the custody of the clerk of
the court in which judgment was rendered, to abide the judgment of the appellate
court, or the undertaking may be in such sum as may be prescribed as aforesaid,
to abide the judgment and pay costs, if the same shall be affirmed.

SEC. 589 (589). Instead of the undertaking prescribed in the second subdivision
of the last section, the conveyance or other instrument may be executed and de
posited with the clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered or order
made, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

SEC. 590 (590). Before the written undertaking herein mentioned in section five
hundred and eighty-eight shall operate to stay execution of the judgment or order,
* a petition in error must be filed in the appellate court, and * the execution of the
undertaking, and the sufficiency of the sureties must be approved by the court in
which the judgment was rendered or order made, or by the clerk thereof; and
the clerk shall endorse said approval, signed by himself upon the undertaking, and
file the same in his office for the defendant in error.
SEC. 591 (591). In an action arising on contract for the payment of money only,
notwithstanding the execution of the undertaking in the last section mentioned to
stay proceedings, if the defendant in error give adequate security to make restitu
tion in case the judgment is reversed or modified, he may, upon leave obtained
from the court below, or a judge thereof in vacation, proceed to enforce the judg
ment. Such security must be an undertaking executed to the plaintiff in error by
at least two sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the judgment be reversed or
modified, he will make full restitution to the plaintiff in error of the money by
him received under the judgment.

SEC. 592 (592). No proceedings for reversing, vacating or modifying judgments
or final orders shall be commenced unless within six calendar months after the ren
dition of the judgment or making of final order complained of ; except that when
the person entitled to such proceedings is an infant, a person of unsound mind,
or imprisoned, he shall have one year exclusive of the time of his disability,
within which to commence such proceedings, "provided, that the provisions of
this act shall only apply to judgments or decrees rendered after the date of its
taking effect."

SEC. 593 (593). No proceedings to reverse, vacate, or modify any judgment ren
dered, or final order made, by a justice of the peace, shall operate as a stay of
execution, unless the clerk of the district court shall take a written undertaking to
the defendant in error, executed on the part of the plaintiff in error, by one or
more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay all the costs which
have accrued or may accrue on such proceedings in error, together with the
amount of any judgment that may be rendered against such plaintiff in error,
either on the further trial of the case, after the judgment of the court below shall
have been set aside or reversed, or upon and after the affirmance thereof in the
district court. * Nor shall said proceedings operate as a stay of execution on
judgments of restitution rendered in actions for the forcible entry and detention,
or the forcible detention only, of lands and tenements, unless a further undertak
ing shall be taken in the manner aforesaid, conditional for the payment to the
defendant in error of all money or sums of money that has accrued or may accrue
to said defendant from the plaintiff in error for the use, occupation, or rent of the
lands and tenements in controversy, in case the judgment sought to be reversed
shall be affirmed.

SEC. 594 (594). When a judgment or final order shall be reversed either in
■whole or in part, in the supreme court, the court reversing the same shall proceed
to render such judgment as the court below should have rendered, or remand the
cause to the court below for such judgment; and the court reversing such judg
ment or final order, shall not issue execution in causes that are removed before
them on error, on which they pronounced judgment as aforesaid, but shall send a
special mandate to the court below, as the case may require, to award execution
thereupon ; * and it shall be the duty of the judges of the supreme court to pre
pare and file their opinion in every case as brought before them, within sixty days
after the decision of the same, and no mandate shall be sent to the court below until
the opinion provided for by this section has been filed.* The court to which such
special mandate is sent shall proceed in such case in the same manner as if such
judgment or final order had been rendered therein, and on motion and good cause
shown, it may suspend any execution made returnable before it by order of the
supreme court, in the same manner as if such execution had been issued from its
own court, but such power shall not extend further than to stay proceedings until
the matter can be further heard by the supreme court.

SEC. 595 (595). When a judgment or final order is reversed, the plaintiff in error
shall recover his costs, and when reversed in part, and affirmed in part, costs shall
be equally divided between the parties.
SEC. 596 (596). When a judgment or final order shall be affirmed in the supreme
court, said court shall also render judgment against the plaintiff in error for five
per cent upon the amount due from him to the defendant in error, unless the court
shall enter upon its minutes that there was reasonable ground for the proceedings
in error.
SEC. 597 (597). A mistake, neglect, or omission of the clerk shall not be a ground
of error, until the same has been presented and acted upon in the court in which
the mistake, neglect or omission occurred.
SEC. 598 (598). Rendering judgment before the action stood for trial according
to the provisions of this code, shall be deemed a clerical error.
SEC. 599 (599). Writs of error and certiorari to reverse, vacate or modify judg
ments or final orders in civil cases, are abolished, but courts shall have the same
power to compel complete and perfect transcripts of the proceedings containing
the judgment or final order sought to be reversed, to be furnished, as they here
tofore had under writs of error and certiorari.

SEC. 600 (600). If the judgment of a justice of the peace, taken on error as
herein provided to the district court, be affirmed, it shall be the duty of such court
to render judgment against the plaintiff in error, for the costs of suit, and to award
execution therefor ; and the court shall thereupon order its clerk to certify its de
cision in the premises, to the justice, that the judgment affirmed may be enforced,
as if such proceedings in error had not been taken ; or such court may award exe
cution to carry into effect the judgment of such justice, in the same manner as if
such judgment had been rendered in the district court.
SEC. 601 (601). When the proceedings of a justice of the peace are taken on
error, to the district court, in manner aforesaid, and the judgment of such justice
shall be reversed or set aside, the court shall render judgment of reversal, and for
the costs that have accrued up to that time, in favor of the plaintiff in error, and
award execution therefor ; and the cause shall be retained by the court for trial
and final judgment, as in cases of appeal.
SEC. 1611 (1611). A complete record of every original cause in the supreme court, as
soon as it is finally determined, shall be made by the clerk of such court, unless
both parties shall declare in open court, at the term at which the final order or
judgment shall be made or hearing had, their agreement that no record shall be
made.

SEC. 602 (602). A district court shall have power to vacate or modify its own
judgments or orders, after the term at which such judgments or order was made :
First, By granting a new trial of the cause, within the time and in the manner
prescribed in section three hundred and eighteen (318) [1303]. Second, By a
new trial granted in proceedings against defendants constructively summoned, as
provided in section seventy-seven (77) [1078]. Third, For mistake, neglect, or
omission of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order. Fourth,
For fraud practiced by the successful party in obtaining the judgment or order.
Fifth, For erroneous proceedings against an infant, or person of unsound mind,
where the condition of such defendant does not appear in the record, nor the error
in the proceedings. Sixth, For the death of one of the parties before the judgment
in the action. Seventh, For unavoidable casualty or misfortune, preventing the
party from prosecuting or defending. Eighth, For errors in a judgment shown
by an infant in twelve months after arriving at full age, as prescribed in section
four hundred and forty-two (442) [1432]. Ninth, For taking judgments upon
warrants of attorney, for more than was due to the plaintiff, when the defendant
was not summoned, or otherwise legally notified of the time and place of taking
such judgment.
SEC. 603 (603). The proceedings to vacate or modify the judgment or order on
the grounds mentioned in subdivisions four, five, six, seven, eight, and nine of the
last preceding section, shall be by petition verified by affidavit, setting forth the
judgment or order, the grounds to vacate or modify it, and the defense to the
action, if the party applying was defendant. On such petition a summons shall
issue and be served as in the commencement of an action ; Provided, Such sum
mons shall not issue in any case in which there is upon the minutes of the court,
or among the files of the case, a waiver of error by the party or his attorney, unless
the court, or a judge thereof, shall endorse upon the petition permission to issue
such summons.
SEC. 604 (604). The proceedings to correct mistakes or omissions of the clerk,
or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order, shall be by motion, upon reason
able notice to the adverse party or his attorney in the action. The motion to vacate
a judgment because of its rendition before the action regularly stood for trial, can
be made only in the first three days of the succeeding term.
SEC. 605 (605). The court may first try and decide upon the grounds to vacate
or modify a judgment or order, before trying or deciding upon the validity of the
defense or cause of action.
SEC. 606 (606). A judgment shall not be vacated on motion or petition, until it
is adjudged that there is a valid defense to the action in which the judgment is
rendered, or, if the plaintiff seeks its vacation, that there is a valid cause of action ;
and where a judgment is modified, all liens and securities obtained under it shall
be preserved to the modified judgment.

SEC. 607 (607). The party seeking to vacate or modify a judgment or order, may,,
obtain an injunction suspending proceedings on the whole or part thereof, which
injunction may be granted by the court, or any judge thereof, upon its being ren
dered probable, by affidavit or by exhibition of the record, that the party is entitled
to have such judgment or order vacated or modified.

SEC. 608 (608). When the judgment was rendered before the action stood for
trial, the suspension may be granted as provided in the last section, although no
valid defense to the action is shown ; and the court shall make such orders con
cerning the executions to be issued on the judgment, as shall give to the defendant
the same rights of delay he would have had if the judgment had been rendered
at the proper time.
SEC. 609 (609). Proceeding to vacate or modify a judgment or order, for the
causes mentioned in subdivisions four, five, and seven of section six hundred and
two, must be commenced within two years after the judgment was rendered or
order made, unless the party entitled thereto be an infant or person of unsound
mind, and then within two years after removal of such disability. Proceedings
for the causes mentioned in subdivisions three and six of the same section, shall
be within three years, and in subdivision nine within one year, after the defendant
has notice of the judgment.
SEC. 610 (610). The provisions of this title, subsequent to section six hundred
and one, shall apply to the supreme court and probate court, so far as the same
may be applicable to the judgments or final orders of such courts. The parties
shall be limited to the same time in which to commence proceedings ; and in esti
mating time, the probate court shall, for this purpose, be considered as holding, in
each year, three terms of four months each, the first commencing on the first day
of January of each year.

SEC. 611 (611). Cases pending in appellate courts on writs of error or otherwise,
when this code takes effect, shall be conducted to final judgment, as if it had not
been adopted, and the liens of judgments and decrees rendered when it takes
effect shall be preserved.
SEC. 612 (612). In all cases in which the plaintiff is a non-resident of the county
in which the action is to be brought, before commencing such action the plaintiff
must furnish a sufficient surety for costs. The surety must be a resident of the
county where the action is to be brought, except where such surety is an incor
porated surety company, authorized by the laws of this state to transact such
business, and must be approved by the clerk. His obligation shall be complete,
simply by indorsing the summons, or signing his name on the complaint as surety
for costs. He shall be bound for the payment of all costs which may be adjudged
against the plaintiff in the court in which the action is brought, or in any other to
which it may be carried, and for costs of the plaintiff's witnesses, whether the
Dlaintiff obtain judgment or not.

SEC. 613 (613). An action in which security for costs is required by the last sec
tion, and has not been given, shall be dismissed on motion and notice by the de
fendant at any proper time before judgment, unless in a reasonable time to be
allowed by the court, such security for costs be given.

SEC. 615 (615). In an action in which security for costs has been given, the de
fendant may at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintiff,
move the court for additional security on the part of the plaintiff ; and if, on such
motion, the court be satisfied that the surety has removed from this state, or is not
sufficient, the action may be dismissed, unless, in a reasonable time to be fixed by
the court, sufficient security be given by the plaintiff.
SEC. 616 (616). After final judgment has been rendered in an action in which
security for costs has been given, as required by this chapter, the court, on motion
of the defendant, or any other person having a right to such costs, or any part
thereof, after ten days' notice of such motion, may enter up judgment in the name
of the defendant, or his legal representatives, against the surety for costs, his
executors or administrators, for the amount of the costs adjudged against the
plaintiff, or so much thereof as may be unpaid. Execution may be issued on such
judgment, as in other cases, for the use and benefit of the persons entitled to such
costs.
SEC. 617 (617). If any informer, under a penal statute, to whom the penalty, or
anv part thereof, if recovered, is given, shall dismiss his suit or prosecution, or
fail in the same, he shall pay all costs accruing on such suit or prosecution, unless
he be an officer whose duty it is to commence the same.
SEC. 618 (618). Where defendants disclaim having any title or interest in land
or other property, the subject-matter of the action, they shall recover their costs,
unless for special reasons the court decide otherwise.
SEC. 619 (619). Unless otherwise provided by statute, the costs of motions, con
tinuances, amendments, and the like, shall be taxed and paid as the court in its
discretion may direct.

SEC. 620 (620). Where it is not otherwise provided by this and other statutes,
costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintiff, upon a judgment in his favor, in
actions for the recovery of money only, or for the recovery of specific real or per
sonal property.
SEC. 621 (621). If it shall appear that a justice of the peace has jurisdiction of
an action, and the same has been brought in any other court, the plaintiff shall not
recover costs ; and in all actions for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assault,
assault and battery, false imprisonment, criminal conversation, seduction, actions
for nuisance, or against, a justice of the peace for misconduct in office, if the
damages assessed be under five dollars, the plaintiff shaft not recover any costs.

SEC. 622 (622). Costs shall be allowed of course to any defendant upon a judg
ment in his favor in the actions mentioned in the last two sections.
SEC. 623 (623). In other actions the court may award and tax costs, and appor
tion the same between the parties on the same or adverse sides, as in its discretion
it may think right and equitable.

SEC. 624 (624). Where several actions are brought on one bill of exchange,
promissory note, or other obligation or instrument in writing, against several
parties, who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, as allowed
by section forty-four (1040), no costs shall be recovered by the plaintiff in more
than one of such actions, if the parties proceeded against in the other actions were,
at the commencement of the previous action, openly within the state.

SEC. 625 (625). When a summons is issued to another county than that in which
the action or proceeding is pending, it may be returned by mail, and the sheriff
shall be entitled to the same fees as if the summons had issued in the county of
which he is sheriff.
SEC. 1636 (1636). That when an application shall be made to a court of record to post
pone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not exceeding ten dollars,
besides the costs of the term, may in the discretion of the judges be imposed as a
condition of granting the postponement.
SEC. 1637 (1637). Costs may be allowed on a motion or demurrer, in the discretion of
the court or judge, not exceeding ten dollars, which shall be absolute against the
losing party on such demurrer or motion; Provided, That this provision shall
not apply to verbal motions and demurrer ore tenus during the course of the trial.

SEC. 626 (626). In an action for the recovery of real property, it shall be suffi
cient, if the plaintiff state in his petition that he has a legal estate therein, and is
entitled to the possession thereof, describing the same as required by section one
hundred and thirty-three, and that the defendant unlawfully keeps him out of the
possession. It shall not be necessary to state how the plaintiff's estate or owner
ship is derived.

SEC. 627 (627). It shall be sufficient in such action if the defendant in his answer
deny, generally, the title alleged in the petition, or that he withholds possession, as
the case may be ; but if he deny the title of the plaintiff, possession by the defend
ant shall be taken as admitted. Where he does not defend for the whole premises,,
the answer shall describe the particular part for which defense is made.

SEC. 628 (628). In an action by a tenant in common of real property, against a
co-tenant, the plaintiff must state, in addition to what is required in the first sec
tion of this chapter, that the defendant either denies the plaintiff's right, or did
some act amounting to such denial.
SEC. 629 (629). In an action for the recovery of real property, where the plaintiff
shows a right to recover at the time the action was commenced, but it appears
that his right has terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict and
judgment must be according to the fact, and the plaintiff may recover for with
holding the property.
SEC. 630 (630). In an action for the recovery of real property, the party against
whom judgment is rendered, may, at any time during the term at which the judg
ment is rendered, demand another trial by notice on the journal, and thereupon
the judgment shall be vacated, and the action shall stand for trial at the next term.
SEC. 631 (631). No further trjal can be had in such action, except upon appeal,
unless for good cause shown, as in other actions. 
SEC. 632 (632). The parties in an action for the recovery of property, may avail
themselves, if entitled thereto, of the relief of the statutes in force for the relief of
occupying claimants of land.

SEC. 633 (633). If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant, or tenant in
common, of real property, commit waste thereon, he is liable to pay three times
the damages which have resulted from such waste, to the person who is entitled
to sue therefor.
SEC. 634 (634). Judgment of forfeiture and conviction may be rendered against
the defendant, whenever the amount of damages so recovered is more than two
thirds the value of the interest such defendant has in the property wasted, and
when the action is brought by the person entitled to the reversion.
SEC. 635 (635). Any person whose duty it is to prevent waste, and who has not
used reasonable care and diligence to prevent it, is deemed to have committed it.
SEC. 636 (636). For willful trespass, injuring any timber, tree, or shrub on the
land of another, or in the street or highway in front of another's cultivated ground,
yard, or town lot, or on the public grounds of any town, or any land held by this
state, for any purpose whatever, the trespasser shall pay treble damages at the
suit of any person entitled to protect or enjoy the property aforesaid.
SEC. 637 (637). Nothing herein contained authorizes the recovery of more than
the just value of the timber taken from uncultivated wood land for the repair of
a public highway or bridge in its immediate neighborhood.
SEC. 638 (638). The owner of an estate in remainder or reversion, may main
tain either of the aforesaid actions for injuries done to the inheritance, notwith
standing any intervening estate for life or years.
SEC. 639 (639). An heir, whether a minor or of full age, may maintain these
actions for injuries done in the time of his ancestors as well as in his own time,
unless barred by the statute of limitations.

SEC. 640 (640). Where lands or tenements are sold by virtue of an execution,
the purchaser at such sale may maintain his action against any person, for either
of the causes above mentioned, occurring or existing after his purchase.
SEC. 641 (641). This provision is not intended to prevent the person who oc
cupies the lands, in the meantime, from using them in the ordinary course of
husbandry, or from using timber for the purpose of making suitable repairs
thereon.
SEC. 642 (642). But if for this purpose he employ timber vastly superior to that
required for the occasion, he will be deemed to have committed waste, and will be
liable accordingly.
SEC. 643 (643). When an officer, executor or administrator within this state, by
misconduct or neglect of duty, forfeits his bond or renders his sureties liable, any
person injured thereby, or who is by law entitled to the benefit of the security, may
bring an action thereon, in his own name, against the officer, executor or adminis
trator, and his sureties, to recover the amount to which he may be entitled by
reason of the delinquency. The action may be instituted and proceeded in on a
certified copy of the bond, which copy shall be furnished by the person holding
the original thereof.

SEC. 644 (644). A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency, does not
preclude the same or another party from an action on the same security for an
other delinquency.
SEC. 1657 (1657). Any private person may, on his own relation, sue out writs of man
damus, without application to the prosecuting attorney.

SEC. 1658 (1658). Persons suing out either * of the writs under the provisions of this chapter, shall be liable to costs as in civil cases.

SEC. 1659 (1659). That proceedings in the supreme court in applications for mandamus
shall be regulated by chapter 3 of title 18 [1657] of the code of civil procedure,
in applications by quo warranto by title 23 [1707] of said code, and on application
for habeas corpus by chapter 25 [2487] of the criminal code; and all other pro
visions of law relating to those remedies shall be applicable to said proceedings
when had in the said court exercising its original jurisdiction.
SEC. 1660 (1660). The several district courts shall have and exercise concurrent jurisdic
tion with the supreme court in the several kinds of action, enumerated in the first section of this act [1659], and the mode of proceeding, and the practice relating
thereto shall be the same as that obtaining in the supreme court under the pro
visions of this act, and as now provided by law.

SEC. 645 (645). The writ of mandamus may be issued to any inferior tribunal,
corporation, board or person, to compel the performance of an act which the law
specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an office, trust or station. But though
it may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment, or proceed to the dis
charge of any of its functions, it can not control judicial discretion.

SEC. 646 (646). This writ may not be issued in any case where there is a plain
and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of the law. It may issue on the in
formation of the party beneficially interested.
SEC. 647 (647). The writ is either alternative or peremptory. The alternative
writ must state concisely the facts showing the obligation of the defendant to per
form the act, and his omission to perform it, and command him, that immediately
upon the receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, he do the act required
to be performed, or show cause before the court whence the writ issued, at a
specified time and place, why he has not done so : and that he then and there re
turn the writ, with his certificate of having done as he is commanded. The per
emptory writ must be in a similar form, except that the words requiring the de
fendant to show cause why he has not done as commanded must be omitted.

SEC. 648 (648). When the right to require the performance of the act is clear,
and it is apparent that no valid excuse can be given for not performing it, a per
emptory mandamus may be allowed in the first instance. In all other cases, the
alternative writ must be first issued.

SEC. 649 (649). The motion for the writ must be made upon affidavit, and the
court may require a notice of the application to be given to the adverse party, or
may grant an order to show cause why it should not be allowed, or may grant the
writ without notice.
SEC. 650 (650). The allowance of the writ must be endorsed thereon, signed by
a judge of the court granting it, and the writ must be served personally upon the
defendant. If the defendant duly served neglect to return the same, he shall be
proceeded against, as for a contempt.
SEC. 651 (651). On the return day of the alternative writ, or such further day
as the court may allow, the party on whom the writ shall have been served, may
show cause, by answer made, in the same manner as an answer to a petition in a
civil action.
SEC. 652 (652). If no answer be made, a peremptory mandamus must be allowed
against the defendant. If an answer be made containing new matter, the same
shall not in any respect conclude the plaintiff, who may, on the trial or other pro
ceeding, avail himself of any valid objection to its sufficiency, or may countervail
it by proof, either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.

SEC. 653 (653). No other pleading or written allegation is allowed than the writ
and answer. These are the pleadings in the case, and have the same effiect and
are to be construed and may be amended in the same manner as pleadings in a
civil action; and the issues thereby joined must be tried, and the further proceed
ings thereon had in the same manner as in a civil action.

SEC. 654 (654). If judgment be given for the plaintiff, he shall recover the dam
ages which he shall have sustained, to be ascertained by the court or a jury, or by
referees, in a civil action, and costs ; and a peremptory mandamus shall also be
granted to him without delay.

SEC. 655 (655). A recovery of damages by virtue of this chapter, against a party,
who shall have made a return to a writ of mandamus, is a bar to any other action
against the same party for the making of such return.
SEC. 656 (656). Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed to any public
officer, body or board, commanding the performance of any public duty specially
enjoined by law, if it appear to the court that sudi officer, or any member of such
body or board, has, without just excuse, refused or neglected to perform the duty
so enjoined, the court may impose a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, upon
every such officer, or member of such body or board. Such fine, when collected,
shall be paid into the treasury of the county where the duty ought to have been
performed ; and the payment thereof is a bar to an action for any penalty incurred
by such officer, or member of such body or board, by reason of his refusal or neg
lect to perform the duty so enjoined.
SEC. 657 (657). All free white males residing in any of the counties of this state,
having the qualifications of electors, and being over the age of twenty-one years,
and of sound mind and discretion, and not being judges of the supreme court or
district courts, clerks of the supreme or district courts, sheriffs, coroners or jailers,
or subject to any bodily infirmity amounting to a disability, and who have not
been convicted of a criminal offense punishable by imprisonment in the peniten
tiary, and are not subject to disability for the commission of any offense which by
special provisions of law does or shall disqualify them, are and shall be compe
tent persons to serve on all grand and petit juries, within their counties respec
tively ; Provided, That persons over sixty years of age, ministers of the gospel,
probate judges, county commissioners, licensed attorneys, practicing physicians,
postmasters, and carriers of the United States mails, shall not be compelled to
serve as jurors.
SEC. 1674 (1674). That on the trial of any suit in which a municipal corporation is a
party, the inhabitants and taxpayers of such municipal corporation shall be com
petent jurors if otherwise competent and qualified according to law.

SEC. 658 (658). In each of the counties of this state, wherein a district court is
appointed or directed to be holden, the county commissioners of the county shall,
at least fifteen days before the first day of the session of the court, meet together,
or any two of them may meet, and select sixty persons possessing the qualifica
tions prescribed in section six hundred and fifty-seven,* and as nearly as may be,
a proportionate number from each precinct in the county, and shall, within five
days thereafter, furnish to the clerk of the district court of the county, or his
deputy, a list of the names of the persons selected.
SEC. 659 (659). The clerk or deputy clerk receiving the names shall write the
name of each person selected on a separate ticket, and place the whole number of
tickets into a box or other suitable and safe receptacle, and shall preserve the list
of names furnished by the commissioners in the files of his office.
SEC. 660 (660). The clerk of the district court or his deputy, and the sheriff or
his deputy, or, if there be no sheriff or deputy sheriff, the coroner of the county
shall, at least ten days before the first day of the session of the district court, meet
together and draw by lot out of the box, a receptacle wherein shall be kept the
tickets mentioned and referred to in section six hundred and fifty-nine (659) of
said title, twenty-four names, and the persons whose names are drawn shall be
the petit jurors. And when a grand jury is ordered, the clerk or deputy clerk, and
sheriff or deputy sheriff, or coroner, if there be no sheriff or deputy sheriff, shall
then draw sixteen ( 16) additional names, and the persons whose names are drawn
shall be the grand jury.
SEC. 661 (661). The clerk of the district court shall, on the day of the drawing
aforementioned, issue an order to the sheriff, deputy sheriff, or coroner, as the
case may be, commanding him to summons the persons whose names are drawn
as petit jurors to appear before the district court, at or before the hour of eleven
o'clock on the morning of such day of the term as the district judge of said dis
trict shall by written order direct, stating in the order the day of the week and
month and the place of the sitting of the court, to serve as petit jurors, and a like
order commanding the sheriff, deputy sheriff, or coroner to summons the grand
jury, when a grand jury has been ordered and drawn, to appear before the dis
trict court at or before the hour of eleven o'clock on the morning of such day of
said term as the district judge of such district shall order, and said order so made
by the district judge shall be in writing and filed with the district clerk on or be
fore the day of the drawing of said jurors as now provided by law.
SEC. 662 (662). The sheriff, deputy sheriff, or coroner, having received the
order, shall, at least five days before the first day of the session of the court, make
service of said order upon each person whose name was selected and drawn as a
petit juror by reading or delivering a copy of the same to the person summoned,
or by leaving a copy at his residence, except that the copy shall contain only the
name of the person served and not the name of any other petit juror. And when
a grand jury is ordered and summoned service of said order shall be made on
each person in the same manner as is provided for service on a petit juror in this section.

SEC. 663 (663). Each grand juror and petit juror summoned shall appear be
fore the court on the day and at the hour specified in the summons, and shall not
depart without leave of court.
SEC. 664 (664). Whenever the proper officers fail to summon a grand or petit
jury, or when all the persons summoned as grand or petit jurors do not appear
before the district courts, or whenever at any general or special term, or at any
period of a term for any cause there is no panel of grand jurors or petit jurors,
or the panel is not complete, said court may order the sheriff, deputy sheriff, or
coroner to summon without delay good and lawful men, having the qualifications
of jurors, and each person summoned shall forthwith appear before the court,
and if competent, shall serve on the grand jury or petit jury, as the case may be,
unless such person may be excused from serving or lawfully challenged.
SEC. 665 (665). No person shall be summoned as a juror in any district court
of this state more than once in two years, and it shall be sufficient cause of chal
lenge to any juror called to be sworn in any cause that he has been summoned
and attended said court as a juror, at any term of said court held within two years
prior to the time of such challenge ; Provided, No finding, verdict or inquest re
turned by any jury shall be invalidated, or set aside, because a member of such
jury served as a grand or petit juror within the two years immediately preceding
such verdict or inquest. * It shall be sufficient cause of challenge of the petit
juror that he lacks any one of the qualifications mentioned in section 657 of the
Code of Civil Procedure [1673], or that he is a party to a suit pending for trial
in that court at that term, or that he has requested or solicited any officer of the
court or officer charged in any manner with the duty of selecting the jury to place
him upon the panel.

SEC. 666 (666). The sheriff, deputy sheriff or coroner, having received the
order or service issued by the clerk, shall make return thereof, with his proceed
ings, to the clerk, before the session of the court.
SEC. 667 (667). If any person summoned to appear as grand juror or petit
juror, fails, refuses or neglects to appear, such person shall be considered guilty
of contempt of the court, and may be fined by the court in any sum not less than five
dollars nor more than fifty dollars ; and if any person, w-hen a second order or at
tachment is issued, neglects or refuses to appear, such person may be fined as
above provided, and imprisoned by the court not longer than ten days in the
county jail ; and if the county commissioners in any county neglect or fail to select
and furnish to the clerk names of persons as hereinbefore provided, such persons
so offending may be fined by the court not less than five dollars nor more than fifty
dollars ; and if any clerk of the district court, or deputy clerk, or sheriff, deputy
sheriff, or coroner, neglects or fails to perform the duties imposed by this chap
ter, the person so offending shall be considered guilty of contempt of court, and
may be fined by the court not less than five dollars nor more than fifty dollars ; and
if guilty of gross misconduct in office and contempt, may be imprisoned by the
court not longer than thirty days in the county jail.
SEC. 668 (668). If a sheriff, or other officer, corruptly, or through favor or ill
will, summon a juror, with the intent that such juror shall find a verdict for or
against either party, or shall summon a grand juror from like motives, with the
intent that such grand juror shall or shall not find an indictment or presentment
against any particular individual, he shall be fined not exceeding five hundred
SEC. $500 ($500).dollars and forfeit his office and be forever disqualified from holding any
office in this state.* Any person who shall seek the position of juror, or who
shall ask any attorney or other officer of the court or any other person or officer
in any manner charged with the duty of selecting the jury, to secure or procure
his selection as a juryman shall be deemed guilty of a contempt of court and be
fined not exceeding twenty ($20) dollars and shall thereby be disqualified from
serving as a juror for that term. Any attorney or party to a suit pending for trial
at that term who shall request or solicit the placing of any person upon a jury,
or upon the jury list, shall be deemed guilty of a contempt of court and be fined not
exceeding one hundred ($100) dollars and the person so sought to be put upon
the jury or jury list, shall be disqualified to serve as a juror at that term of the
court.
SEC. 1686 (1686). That the county board of commissioners or supervisors of counties
having a population of sixty thousand (60,000) or more, shall, at or before its
meeting in January in each year, or at any time thereafter when necessary for the
purposes of this act, make a list of a sufficient number, not less than one-fifteenth
of the legal voters of each town or precinct in the county, giving the place of res
idence of each name on the list to be known as the jury list.

SEC. 1687 (1687). In making such jury list, the county board shall choose a proportionate
number from the residents of each town or precinct, and shall take the names of
such only as are in the opinion of the board: First—Inhabitants of the town or
precinct not exempt from serving on juries. Second—Of the age of twenty-one
years or upwards, and under sixty years old. Third—In the possession of their
natural faculties. Fourth—Free from all legal exceptions, of fair character, of
approved integrity, of sound judgment, well informed, and who understand the
English language.

SEC. 1688 (1688). If, for any reason, the jury list provided for in the foregoing sections
of this act, shall not be made at the meeting of the board held at the time speci
ied, such jury list shall be made at any meeting to be held as soon thereafter as
may be.

SEC. 1689 (1689). The clerks of the district court in each county shall at the end of each
term of court furnish the county clerk a list of all persons who have served as
petit jurors during the term. All jurors on the regular panels shall serve dur
ing the weeks for which they were drawn and until discharged from the case in
■which they may be serving, if any, at the expiration of such time unless sooner
excused by the court.

SEC. 1690 (1690). Said county board shall annually, at their first meeting in January
destroy the list of names of jurors not yet withdrawn from said jury list and pre
pare another jury list in the manner provided in preceding sections of this act.

SEC. 1691 (1691). A list of jurors so selected shall be kept in the office of the county
clerk, who shall write the name and residence of each person selected upon a sep
arate ticket and put the whole into a box or wheel to be kept for that purpose.
SEC. 1692 (1692). t least twenty (20) days before the first day of any trial term of the
district court, the clerk of such court shall repair to the office of the county clerk,
and in the presence of such county clerk, and at least one of the judges of the dis
trict court, after the box or wheel containing said names has been well shaken by
the county clerk, and without partiality, draw thirty (30) names of persons then
residents of said county, for each judge sitting with a jury in said court, as petit
jurors for the first three weeks of that term, unless such court shall otherwise
order, and said clerk shall immediately after such drawing, post in a conspicuous
place in his office the names of the persons so drawn, and shall also immediately
notify said persons by registered letters of the fact of their having been drawn as
jurors which notice shall command them to appear at the place of holding such
court at the hour of ten (10) a.m. of the first (1st) day of the term of said court,
or of such subsequent day of said term as the judge shall direct. If any person
so drawn shall fail to appear at said time and place, the court shall order the
clerk to issue a summons for him to appear forthwith, which shall be served as
provided in section six hundred and sixty-two (662) of the Code of Civil Pro
cedure, and unless such person upon his appearance shall make it satisfactorily
appear to the court that he had no actual notice that he was drawn as a juror,
and required to report as aforesaid, he shall be taxed with the costs of such ser
vice which shall be entered as a judgment against him, in favor of the state and
when collected shall be turned over to the treasurer of said county. The court
shall examine all jurors so drawn who appear, and if more than twenty-four (24)
petit jurors for each judge sitting with a jury who are qualified and not subject
to any exemptions or any of the disqualifications provided in this act shall appear
and remain after all excuses are allowed, the court shall discharge by lot the num
ber in excess of twenty-four (24) for each judge sitting with a jury. At the same
time and in the same manner, the clerk of said court shall also draw the same
number of names as petit jurors for the second three weeks of that term of jury
service, and the persons so drawn shall be notified and summoned the same as
those first drawn,, and during the term, the court shall direct the clerk to draw,
notify and summon other petit jurors in the manner described, as often as the
length of the term may require ; Provided, That should said clerk draw from the
said box the name of a person whom he may know to be dead, or to have removed
from the county, it shall be the duty of the said clerk to report the name of such
person to the county clerk, and said clerk of such court shall draw other names
until the required number shall have been selected ; Provided, also, that whenever
there shall be pending for trial in said court, any criminal cause wherein the de
fendant is charged with a felony and the judge holding said court shall be con
vinced from the circumstances of the case that a jury can not be obtained from
the regular panel to try said cause, said judge may in his discretion prior to the
day fixed for the trial of said cause direct the clerk to draw (in the same manner
as the regular panel is drawn) such number as the judge may direct, as a spe
cial panel from which a jury may be selected to try said cause which panel shall
be notified and summoned for said day the same as the regular panel.
SEC. 1693 (1693). If a grand jury shall be required by law, or by order of the judge for
any term of court, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the district court of the
county wherein such court is directed to be holden, at least twenty (20) days be
fore the sitting of such court, to repair to the office of the county clerk, and there
in the manner provided in the preceding section for drawing petrt jurors, draw
twenty-three names of persons then residents of said county out of the box or
wheel containing the names of such jury list and said clerk shall also immediately
notify or summons the persons so drawn in the manner herein provided for noti
fying and summoning petit jurors to appear before such court, at or before the
hour of eleven o'clock A.M., on the first day of the term, or upon such other day as
the judge shall direct, to serve as grand Jurors for such term. The judge shall ex
amine the jurors who appear, and if more than sixteen grand jurors who are
qualified and not subject to any exemption or any of the disqualifications provided
in this act shall appear and remain after all excuses are allowed, the sheriff or
deputy sheriff in the presence of the judge shall draw by lot the names of the
number in excess of sixteen who shall be discharged by the court; and the six
teen remaining shall constitute the grand jury.

SEC. 1694 (1694). If for any reason the panel of petit jurors shall not be full at the open
ing of such court, or at any time during the term, the clerk of such court shall
when ordered by the judge again repair to the office of the county clerk, and
draw in the same manner as at the first drawing such number of jurors as the
judge shall direct, to fill such panel, who shall be notified and summoned in the
same manner as the others, and, if necessary, jurors may continue to be so drawn,
notified and summoned from time to time until the panel shall be filled. In case
a jury shall be required in such court for trial of any cause, before the panel shall
be filled in the manner herein provided, the court may direct the sheriff to sum
mon from the bystanders, or from the body of the county, a sufficient number of
persons having the qualifications of jurors, as provided in this act, to fill the panel,
in order that a jury to try such cause may be drawn therefrom, and when such
jury is drawn, the persons selected from the bystanders, or from the body of the
county, to fill the panel, and not chosen on the jury, shall be discharged from the
panel, and those who shall be chosen to serve on such jury shall also be discharged
from the panel at the conclusion of the trial. Provided, That persons selected from
the bystanders, as provided in this section, shall not thereby be disqualified or ex
empt from service as jurors, when regularly drawn by the clerk for that pur
pose in the manner provided in this act.
SEC. 1695 (1695). hen by reason of a challenge in the selection of a jury for the trial
of any cause, or by reason of the sudden sickness or absence of any juror for any
cause, the regular panel shall be exhausted, the court may direct the sheriff to
summon a sufficient number of persons having the qualifications of jurors to fill
the panel for the pending trial ; but, upon objection by either party to the cause
to the sheriff summoning a sufficient number of persons to fill the panel, the court
shall appoint a special bailiff to summon such person ; Provided, The same person
shall not be appointed special bailiff more than once at any term of court. Any
person who shall seek the position of juror or who shall ask any attorney or
other officer of the court, or other person to secure his selection as a juryman,
shall be deemed guilty of a contempt of court, and be fined not exceeding twenty
SEC. $20 ($20).dollars, and shall thereby be disqualified from serving as a juror for that
term, and such fact shall be sufficient ground for challenge. Any attorney or
party to a suit pending for trial at that term who shall request or solicit the plac
ing of any person upon a jury shall be deemed guilty of a contempt of the court
and be fined not exceeding one hundred ($100) dollars and the person so sought
to be put upon the jury shall be disqualified to serve as a juror at that term of
court.
SEC. 1696 (1696). It shall be sufficient cause of challenge of a petit juror that he lack
any one of the qualifications mentioned in section two (2) of this act ; or in section
six hundred and fifty seven (657) of the code of civil procedure, or if he is not
one of the regular panel, that he has served as a juror on the trial of a cause in
any court of record in the county within one year previous to the time of his being
offered as a juror; or that he is a party to a suit pending for a trial in that court,
at that term. It shall be the duty of the court to discharge from the panel all
jurors who do not possess the qualifications provided in this act as soon as the
fact is discovered; Provided, If a person has served on a jury in a court of record
within one year he shall be exempt from again serving during such year unless
he waives such exemption ; Provided, further, That it shall not be a cause of chal
lenge that a juror has read in the newspapers an account of the commission of
the crime with which the* prisoner is charged, if such juror shall state on oath
that he believes he can render an impartial verdict, according to the law and the
evidence ; And provided further, That in the trial of any criminal cause the fact
that a person called as a juror has formed an opinion or impression based upon
rumor or upon newspaper statements (about the truth of which he has expressed
no opinion), shall not disqualify him to serve as a juror in such case, if he shall
upon oath state that he believes he can fairly and impartially render a verdict
therein, in accordance with the law and the evidence, and the court shall be satis
fied of the truth of such statement.
SEC. 1697 (1697). It shall be the duty of the clerk of the court to write the name of each
petit jury summoned and retained on a separate ticket and put the whole into a box
or other place of safe keeping, and as often as it shall be necessary to empanel a
jury, the clerk, the sheriff or coroner shall in the presence of the court draw by
chance the names of jurors out of such box or other place, to be sworn on the
jury then being empaneled.
SEC. 669 (669). Every court of record shall have po"wer to punish by fine and
imprisonment, or by either, as for criminal contempt, persons guilty of any of the
following acts: First—Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards
the court, or any of its officers in its presence. Second—Any breach of the peace,
noise, or other disturbance tending to interrupt its proceedings. Third—Wilful
disobedience of or resistance wilfully offered to any lawful process or order of
said court. Fourth—Any wilful attempt to obstruct the proceedings, or hinder
the due administration of justice in any suit, proceedings, or process pending be
fore the courts. Fifth—The contumacious and unlawful refusal of any person to
be sworn or affirmed as a witness, and when sworn or affirmed, the refusal to
answer any legal and proper interrogatory.

SEC. 670 (670). Contempts committed in the presence of the court may be pun
ished summarily; in other cases the party upon being brought before the court,
shall be notified of the accusation against him, and have a reasonable time to
make his defense.
SEC. 671 (671). Persons punished for contempt under the preceding provisionsshall
nevertheless be liable to indictment, if such contempt shall amount to an in
dictable offense ; but the court before which the conviction shall be had may, in
determining the punishment, take into consideration the punishment before in
flicted in mitigation of the sentence.

SEC. 1702 (1702). That in all actions in equity either party may appeal from the judg
ment or decree rendered or final order made by the district court, to the supreme
court of the state; the party appealing shall, within six months after the date of
the rendition of the judgment or decree, or the making of the final order, procure
from the clerk of the district court and file in the office of the clerk of the supreme
court a certified transcript of the proceedings had in the cause in the district court,
containing the pleadings, the judgment or decree rendered or final order made
therein, and all the depositions, testimony, and proofs offered in evidence on the
hearing of the cause, and have the said cause properly docketed in the supreme
court; and on failure thereof, the judgment or decree rendered or the final order
made in the district court shall stand and be proceeded in as if no appeal had been
taken.

SEC. 1703 (1703). In actions hereinafter heard and determined, when the proofs and
testimony are taken orally before the court on the hearing of the cause, the same
shall be reduced to writing, in form similar to bills of exception, and be allowed
by the judge hearing the cause, as in cases at law.

SEC. 1704 (1704). No appeal in any case in equity, now pending and undetermined, or
which shall hereafter be brought, shall operate as a supersedeas, unless the ap
pellant or appellants shall, within twenty days next after the rendition of such
judgment or decree, or the making of such final order, execute to the adverse
party a bond with one or more sureties as follows : First—When the judgment,
decree, or final order appealed from directs the payment of money, the bond shall
be in double the amount of the judgment, decree, or final order, conditioned that
the appellant or appellants will prosecute such appeal without delay, and pay all
condemnation money and costs which may be found against him or them on the
final determination of the cause in the supreme court. Second—When the judg
ment, decree, or final order directs the execution of a conveyance or other instru
ment the bond shall be in such sum as shall be prescribed by the district court, or
judge thereof in vacation, conditioned that the appellant, or appellants, will prose
cute such appeal without delay, and will abide and perform the judgment or de
cree rendered, or final order which shall be made by the supreme court in the
cause. Third—When the judgment, decree, or order directs the sale or delivery,
of possession of real estate, the bond shall be in such sum as the court, or judge
thereof in vacation, shall prescribe, conditioned that the appellant or appellants
will prosecute such appeal without delay, and will not during the pendency of such
appeal commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste upon such real estate.
* Fourth—When the judgment, decree, or final order dissolves or modifies any
order of injunction which has been, or hereafter may be granted, the supersedeas
bond shall be in such reasonable sum as the court, or judge thereof in vacation,
shall prescribe, conditioned that the appellant or appellants will prosectue such ap
peal without delay, and will pay all costs which may be found against him or them
on the final determination of the cause in the supreme court; and such super
sedeas bond shall stay the doing of the act or acts sought to be restrained by the
suit, and continue such injunction in force until the case is heard and finally de
termined in the supreme court. The undertaking given upon the allowance of the
injunction shall be and remain in effect until it is finally decided whether or not
the injunction ought to have been granted.
SEC. 1705 (1705). Before any bond executed as aforesaid shall operate as a supersedeas,
the execution of the same, and the sufficiency of the sureties therein, must be ap
proved by the clerk of the court in which the judgment or decree was rendered or
the final order was made.

SEC. 1706 (1706). When any citizen of this state shall claim any office which is usurped,
invaded, or unlawfully held and exercised by another, the person so claiming such
office shah have the right to file in the district court an information in the nature
of a quo warranto, upon his own relation, and with or without the consent of the
prosecuting attorney, and such person shall have the right to prosecute said infor
mation to final judgment; Provided, He shall have first applied to the prosecuting
attorney to file the information, and the prosecuting attorney shall have refused
or neglected to file the same.
SEC. 704 (704). An information may be filed against any person unlawfully
holding or exercising any public office or franchise within this state, or any office
in any corporation created by the taws of this state, or when any public officer has
done or suffered any act which works a forfeiture of his office, or when any per
sons act as a corporation within this state without being authorized by law, or if,
being incorporated, they do or omit acts which amount to a surrender or forfeiture
of their rights and privileges as a corporation, or when they exercise powers not
conferred by law.

SEC. 705 (705). Such information may be filed by the prosecuting attorney of
the proper county whenever he deems it his duty so to do.

SEC. 706 (706). He must file such information when directed to do so by the
governor, the legislative assembly, or the district court.
SEC. 707 (707). Such information shall consist of a plain statement of the facts
which constitute the grounds of the proceeding, addressed to the court, which
shall stand for an original petition.
SEC. 708 (708). Such statement shall be filed in the clerk's office, and summons
issued and served in the same manner as hereinbefore provided for the com
mencement of actions in the district court.
SEC. 709 (709). The defendant shall appear and answer such information in the
usual way, and issue being joined it shall be tried in the ordinary manner.
SEC. 710 (710). When the defendant is holding an office to which another is
claiming the right, the information should set forth the name of such claimant,
and the trial must, if practicable, determine the rights of the contesting parties.
SEC. 711 (711). If judgment be rendered in favor of such claimant, he shall
proceed to exercise the functions of the office, after he has qualified as required
by law.

SEC. 712 (712). The court, after such judgment, shall order the defendant to
deliver over all books and papers in his custody or under his control belonging to
said office.
SEC. 713 (713). When the judgment has been rendered in favor of the claimant,
he may at any time within one year thereafter, bring suit against the defendant
and recover the damages he has sustained by reason of the act of the defendant.

SEC. 714 (714). When several persons claim to be entitled to the same office or
franchise, an information may be filed against all or any portion thereof, in order
to try their respective rights thereto.
SEC. 715 (715). If the defendant be found guilty of unlawfully holding or exer
cising any office, franchise or privilege, or if a corporation be found to have vio
lated the law by which it holds its existence, or in any other manner to have done
acts which amount to a surrender or forfeiture of its privileges, judgment shall
be rendered that such defendant be ousted, and altogether excluded from such
office, franchise, or privilege, and also that he pay the costs of the proceeding.

SEC. 716 (716). If the defendant be found to have exercised merely certain in
dividual powers and privileges to which he was not entitled, the judgment shall
be the same as above directed, but only in relation to those particulars in which he
is thus exceeding the lawful exercise of his rights and privileges.
SEC. 717 (717). When an information is upon the relation of a private indi
vidual, it shall be so stated in the petition and proceedings, and such individual
shall be responsible for costs in case they are not adjudged against the defend
ant. In other cases the title of the cause shall be the same as in a criminal prose
cution, and the payment of costs shall be regulated by the same rule.
SEC. 718 (718). In case judgment is rendered against a pretended, but not real,
corporation, the costs may be collected from any person who has been acting as
an officer or proprietor of such pretended corporation.
SEC. 719 (719). If a corporation is ousted and dissolved by the proceedings
herein authorized, the court shall appoint three disinterested persons as trustees
of the creditors and stockholders.

SEC. 720 (720). Such trustees shall enter into bond, in such a penalty and with
such security as the court may approve, conditioned for the faithful discharge of
their trust.
SEC. 721 (721). Suit may be brought on such bond by any person injured by
the negligence or wrongful act of the trustees in the discharge of their duties.
SEC. 722 (722). The trustees shall proceed immediately to collect the debts and
pay the liabilities of the corporation, and to divide the surplus among those
thereto entitled.
SEC. 723 (723). The court shall, upon an application for that purpose, order any
officer of such corporation, or any other person having possession of any of the
effects, books, or papers of the corporation in anywise necessary for the settle
ment of its affairs, to deliver up the same to the trustees.
SEC. 724 (724). As soon as practicable, after their appointment, the trustees
shall make and file in the office of the clerk of the court, an inventory of all the
effects, rights and credits which come to their possession or knowledge, the truth
of which inventory shall be sworn to.
SEC. 725 (725). They shall sue for and recover the debts and property of the
corporation, and shall be responsible to the creditors and stockholders, respec
tively, to the extent of the effects which come to their hands, in the same manner
as though they were the executors of a deceased person.
SEC. 726 (726). When judgment of ouster is rendered against a corporation on
account of the misconduct of the directors or officers thereof, such officers shall be
jointly and severally liable to an action by any one injured thereby.
SEC. 727 (727). Any person who, without good reason, refuses to obey any order
of the court as herein provided, shall be deemed guilty of a contempt of court, and
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding five thousand dollars, and imprisoned in
the county jail until he comply with said order, and shall be further liable for the
damages resulting to any person on account of his refusal to obey such order.
SEC. 728 (728). A proceeding of this kind may be instituted in the manner
above contemplated, for the purpose of annulling or vacating any letters patent
granted by the proper authorities of this state, where there is reason to believe
that the same were obtained by fraud, or through mistake or ignorance of a ma
terial fact, or when the patentee, or those claiming under him, have done or
omitted an act in violation of the terms and conditions on which the letters were
granted, or have by any other means forfeited the interest acquired under the
same.
SEC. 1732 (1732). Any minor child may be adopted by any adult person or persons in
the cases and subject to the rules prescribed in this act.
SEC. 1733 (1733). Any one of the following classes of persons may relinquish the custody
and control of a minor child and consent to its adoption in the manner herein
after prescribed, to-wit:
One (1). The parents, if living, of a legitimate minor child, except as pro
vided in subdivisions three (3), five (5), six (6) and seven (7) of this section.
Two (2). The surviving parent, if one has died, of a legitimate minor child,
except as provided in subdivisions five (5), six (6), and seven (7) of this section.
Three (3). If one of the parents of a legitimate minor child shall have had
the exclusive and actual custody or control of said minor child for the period of
six months last preceding, for the support of which the other parent shall have
without just cause or fault contributed nothing whatever during said period, said
parent having said custody or control may consent to its adoption.
Four (4). The mother, if living, of an illegitimate minor child.
Five (5). Any person, corporation or association, to whom the custody or
control of any minor child shall have been given by a written instrument signed
and executed in the presence of at least one witness, by both parents, if living, of
a legitimate child, or by the surviving parent, if one is dead, of a legitimate child,
pr by the mother, if living, of an illegitimate child, may consent to its adoption,
provided said written instrument shall authorize said person, corporation or asso
ciation to procure the adoption of said minor child by some suitable person. Said
written instrument shall be acknowledged by the signer or signers thereof before
any officer authorized by the laws of this state to acknowledge deeds.
Six (6). Any person, corporation or association that shall have had
the lawful custody or control of any minor child for the period of six months
last preceding, for the support of which neither parent shall without just cause or
fault have contributed anything whatever during said period, may consent to its
adoption.
Seven (7). Any person, corporation or association that shall have been ap
pointed guardian of the person of any minor child because of the cruelty, neglect
or unsuitableness of its parents, may consent to its adoption, provided that a de-'
cree of adoption shall not be entered until the court appointing said guardian shall
have made an order authorizing said guardian to consent to said adoption.

SEC. 1734 (1734). A married man, not lawfully separated from his wife, can not adopt a
minor child without the consent of his wife ; nor can a married woman, not thus
separated from her husband, without his consent, provided the husband or wife,
not consenting, is capable of giving such consent.

SEC. 1735 (1735). The consent of a minor child if over the age of fourteen years is nec
essary to its adoption.

SEC. 1736 (1736). Any person or persons desiring to adopt a minor child, shall file in the
county court of the county where the person desiring to adopt said child resides, a
petition stating that he freely and voluntarily adopts said minor child, which peti
tion shall be signed and sworn to by the person so desiring to adopt. Said peti
tion may state the terms and conditions on which said adoption is desired to be
made.

SEC. 1737 (1737). Before a decree of adoption shall be entered a written consent shall be
filed in said court by the person or persons authorized by section two of this act to
consent to the adoption of a minor child, stating that he voluntarily relinquishes
all right to the custody of and power and control over said minor child, and all
claim and interest in and to the services and wages of said minor child, to the end
that said minor child shall be adopted by the party or parties named therein. Said
consent shall be signed and executed by the party or parties relinquishing in the
presence of at least one witness, and shall be acknowledged before any officer au
thorized by the laws of this state to acknowledge deeds. Said consent may state
the terms and conditions on which the consent to said adoption is given.

SEC. 1738 (1738). Upon the filing of said petition said court shall fix a time for hearing
the same, which time shall be at least fourteen days subsequent to the filing thereof
said court may require notice of said hearing to be given to all parties interested
by personal service or by publication provided that it shall not be necessary to
give notice of said hearing to the said minor child to be adopted, unless said minor
child shall be over the age of fourteen years, if notice shall be given by publication,
said notice shall be published at least four consecutive weeks in some newspaper
in general circulation in said county, which publication shall be at least ten days
prior to said day of hearing. Provided further, that in the event that the parents
or either of them reside within the state, and personal service can be had upon
them, that such service shall in all such cases, be had upon such parent or parents.
SEC. 1739 (1739). The person or persons desiring to adopt said minor child, and the said
minor child, must at the time of hearing appear before said court in person. If,
upon said hearing, the court shall find that said adoption is for the best interests
of the said minor child, a decree of adoption shall be entered in accordance with
the terms and conditions of said consent and petition.
SEC. 1740 (1740). Unless the terms and conditions in said consent and petition otherwise
provide, said person or persons adopting, and the said minor child adopted shall
after adoption, sustain toward each other the usual relation and the adopted child
shall have bestowed upon him or her equal rights, priviliges and immunities of
children born in lawful wedlock of parent and child, and shall have all the right and
be subject to all the duties of that relation, and the parents of said adopted child
shall, after said adoption, stand relieved of all parental duties toward, and all re
sponsibility for, the said minor child so adopted and shall have no right over it.

SEC. 1741 (1741). An appeal shall be allowed from any final order, judgment or decree
rendered under the authority of this act by the county court, to the district court,
by any person against whom any such order, judgment or decree may be made, or
who may be affected thereby, in the manner provided by sections 42, 43, 44, 45,
46, 47 and 48 of chapter 20 of the Compiled Statutes of Nebraska for the year 1895.

SEC. 1742 (1742). Said proceedings shall be recorded in a book kept in the said court for
that purpose, which book shall be known as the "Adoption Record."

SEC. 1743 (1743). The same fees shall be charged for all services performed under this
act, as now are or may hereafter be provided by law for like services in probate
matters.

SEC. 1744 (1744). It shall be unlawful, and it is hereby declared to be cruelty within the
meaning of this act, for any person having the care, custody or control of any
child or children under the age of fourteen years, to wilfully abandon, cruelly or
unlawfully punish, or wilfully or negligently deprive of necessary food, clothing
or shelter such child or children.

SEC. 1745 (1745). It shall be unlawful, and it is hereby declared to be cruelty within the
meaning of this act, for any person employing or having the care, custody or con
trol of any child, wilfully or negligently to cause or permit the life of such child
to be endangered, or the health of such child to be injured, or wilfully to cause or
permit such child to be placed in such a situation that its life or health may be en
dangered, or to cause or permit such child to be overworked, cruelly beaten, tor
tured, tormented, or mutilated.
SEC. 1746 (1746). Any person or persons convicted under any of the foregoing provi
sions of this act shall be fined in any sum not more than one hundred dollars, or
imprisoned in the jail of the county not exceeding three months, at the discretion
Of the court.

SEC. 1747 (1747). Any legally incorporated humane society, or society for the preven
tion of crulety to children, is hereby empowered to become the guardian of minor
children, in accordance with the general provisions of law applicable to the guar
dianship of minors. The powers and duties of such society, as guardians of
minor children, shall be exercised and performed by its officers and agents, and
such society may adopt by-laws in relation thereto, not inconsistent with the gen
eral provisions of law applicable to such guardianships.

SEC. 1748 (1748). Whenever it shall be made to appear to a county court that any per
son or persons have been sentenced to pay a fine, or sentenced to a term in the
county jail under any of the provisions of this act, or if it shall be made to appear
to a county court after due complaint, setting forth the facts relied upon, and a
hearing thereon, that any child or children under the age of fourteen years, by
reason of orphanage, or of the neglect, crime, drunkenness or other vice of par
ents, is growing up without education or salutary control, and in circumstances
exposing such child or children to lead a dissolute and vicious life, such court
may order such child or children to be committed to the custody of any legally
incorporated humane society or society for the prevention of cruelty to children,
and such society is hereby authorized to receive such child or children into its
custody and to provide for care and education in some suitable family or institu
tion of instruction ; but nothing contained in this act shall be construed to oblige
any such society to receive the custody of any child, nor to affect in any way the
duty of any city or town to provide for any child having a legal settlement
therein.

SEC. 1749 (1749). The county court, pending a hearing as provided for in the foregoing section, may at its discretion, if it should think it desirable and for the best inter
ests of the child or children, deprive the person or persons so sentenced or
against whom complaint under section five of this act has been made of the cus
tody of such child or children.
SEC. 802 (802). When the object of the action is to effect the partition of real
property among several joint owners, the petition must decribe the property, and
the several interests and estates of the several joint owners thereof, if known. *
All tenants in common, or joint tenants of any estate in land may be compelled to
make or suffer partition of such estate or estates in the manner hereinafter pre
scribed.
SEC. 803 (803). If the number of shares or interests is known, but the owners
thereof are unknown, or if there are, or are supposed to be, any interests which
are unknown, contingent or doubtful, these facts must be set forth in the petition
with reasonable certainty.
SEC. 804 (804). Creditors having a specific or general lien upon all or any por
tion of the property may or may not be made parties, at the option of the plaintiff.
SEC. 805 (805). If the lien is upon one or more undivided interests of any of the
parties, it shall, after partition or sale, remain a charge upon those particular in
terests or the proceeds thereof. But the due proportion of costs is a charge upon
those interests paramount to all other liens.
SEC. 806 (806). The answers of the defendants must state, among other things,
the amount and nature of their respective interests. They may deny the interest
of any of the plaintiffs, and by supplemental pleading, if necessary, may deny the
interests of any of the other defendants.
SEC. 807 (807). Where there are two or more plaintiffs they may reply jointly,
or either of them may reply to any or all the answers of the defendants.
SEC. 808 (808). Issues may thereupon be joined and tried between any of the
contesting parties, the question of costs on such issues being regulated between
the contestants agreeably to the principles applicable to other cases.

SEC. 809 (809). Each of the parties appearing, whether as plaintiff or defendant,
must exhibit his documentary proof of title, if he has any, and must file the same,
or copies thereof, with the clerk.
SEC. 810 (810). If the statements in the petition and answers are not contra
dicted in the manner aforesaid, or by the documentary proof exhibited as above
required, they shall be taken as true.
SEC. 811 (811). After all the shares and interests of the parties have been settled
in any of the methods aforesaid, judgment shall be rendered confirming those
shares and interests, and directing partition to be made accordingly.

SEC. 812 (812). Upon entering such judgment the court shall appoint referees to
make partition into the requisite number of shares.
SEC. 813 (813). For good and sufficient reasons appearing to the court, the ref
erees may be directed to allot particular portions of the land to particular indi
viduals. In other cases the shares must be made as nearly as possible of equal
value.
SEC. 814 (814). If it appears to the referees that partition can not be made with
out great prejudice to the owners, they shall so report to the court.
SEC. 815 (815). If satisfied with such report the court shall cause an order to be
entered directing the referees to sell the premises so situated, and shall also fix the
terms of sale.
SEC. 816 (816). Before proceeding to sell, the referees shall each give security,
to be approved by the court or judge thereof, conditioned for the faithful discharge
of his duties. At any time thereafter the court may require further and better
security.
SEC. 817 (817). The same notice of sale shall be given as when lands are sold on
execution by the sheriff, and the sale shall be conducted in like manner.
SEC. 818 (818). After completing said sale, the referees must report their pro
ceedings to the court, with a description of the different parcels of land sold to
each purchaser, and the price bid therefor, which report shall be filed with the
clerk.
SEC. 819 (819). After making the order of sale as aforesaid, the court shall direct
the clerk to report whether there be any general incumbrance by mortgage, judg
ment or otherwise, upon any portion of the property.
SEC. 820 (820). If deemed advisable, the court may appoint a referee to inquire
into the nature and amount of incumbrances, and report accordingly. From that
report an appeal lies to the court.
SEC. 821 (821). The referee shall give the parties interested at least five days'
notice of the time and place when he will receive proof of the amount of such
incumbrances.

SEC. 822 (822). In taking such proof he may receive, with other evidence, the
affidavit of the parties interested.
SEC. 823 (823). If any incumbrance be ascertained to exist, the proceeds of the
sale of that portion, after the' payment of costs, or so much thereof as is necessary,
shall, if the owner consent, be paid over to the incumbrancer.
SEC. 824 (824). If the owner object to the payment of such incumbrance, the
money shall be retained or invested by order of the court to await final action in
relation to its disposition, and notice thereof shall be forthwith given to the in
cumbrancer, unless he has already been made a party.
SEC. 825 (825). The court may direct an issue to be made up between the in
cumbrancer and the owner, which shall be decisive of their respective rights.
SEC. 826 (826). If an estate for life or years be found to exist as an incumbrance
upon any part of said property, and if the parties can not agree upon the sum in
gross which they will consider an equivalent for such estate, the court shall direct
the avails of the incumbered property to be invested, and the proceeds to be paid
to the incumbrancer during the existence of the incumbrance.
SEC. 827 (827). The proceedings in relation to the incumbrances shall not delay
the distribution of the proceeds of other shares in respect to which no difficulties
exist.
SEC. 828 (828). The court in its discretion may require all or any of the parties
before they receive the moneys arising from any sale authorized in this title, to
give satisfactory security to refund such moneys with interest, in case it afterward
appears that such parties were not entitled thereto.
SEC. 829 (829). If the sales aforesaid be approved and confirmed by the court,
an order shall be entered directing the referees, or any two of them, to execute
conveyances pursuant to such sales. But no conveyance can be made until all the
money is paid, without receiving from the purchaser a mortgage of the land so
sold, or other equivalent security.

SEC. 830 (830). Such conveyances so executed, being recorded in the county
where the premises are situate, shall be valid against all subsequent purchasers,
and also against all persons interested at the time who were made parties to the
proceedings in the mode pointed out by law.
SEC. 831 (831). If the owner of any share thus sold has a husband or wife living,
and if such husband or wife do not agree £s to the disposition that shall be made of
the proceeds of such sale, the court must direct it to be invested in real estate
under the supervision of such person as it may appoint, taking the title in the
name of the owner, of the share sold as aforesaid.
SEC. 832 (832). If the sales are disapproved, the money paid and the securities
given must be returned to the persons respectively entitled thereto.
SEC. 833 (833). When partition is deemed proper the referees must make out
the shares by visible monuments, and may employ a competent surveyor and the
necessary assistants to aid them.
SEC. 834 (834). The report of the referees must be in writing, signed by at least
two of them. It must describe the respective shares with reasonable particularity,
and be accompanied by a plat of the premises.
SEC. 835 (835). Unless the shares are allotted to their respective owners by the
referees as hereinbefore contemplated, the clerk shall number the shares and then
draw the names of the future owners by lot.
SEC. 836 (836). When partition can be conveniently made of part of the prem
ises but not of all, one portion may be partitioned and the other sold as hereinafter
provided.
SEC. 837 (837). On good cause shown, the report may be set aside and the mat
ter again referred to the same or other referees.
SEC. 838 (838). Upon the report of the referees being confirmed, judgment
thereon shall be rendered that the partition be firm and effectual forever.
SEC. 839 (839). The defendants may be served in the same manner as in ordinarycivil
action by summons, or by publication as provided in this code, and * when all
the parties in interest have been duly served, any of the proceedings herein pre
scribed shall be binding and conclusive upon them all. If only a portion of such
parties be served, they only shall be bound by such proceedings.
SEC. 840 (840). The judgment of partition shall be presumptive evidence of title
in all cases, and as between the parties themselves it is conclusive evidence thereof,
subject, however, to be defeated by proof of a title paramount to, or independent
of, that under which the parties held as joint tenants or tenants in common.

SEC. 841 (841). All the costs of the proceedings in partition shall be paid in the
first instance by the plaintiffs, but eventually by all the parties in proportion to
their interests, except those costs which are created by contests above provided for.
SEC. 842 (842). Any persons claiming to hold an incumbrance upon any portion
of the property involved in the suit, may, in default of the owner, appear and
act as his representative in any of the proceedings under this title.
SEC. 843 (843). Persons having contingent interests in such property may be
made parties to the proceedings, and the proceeds of the property so situated (or
the property itself, in case of partition) shall be subject to the order of the court
until the right becomes fully vested.
SEC. 844 (844). The ascertained share of any absent owner shall be retained, or
the proceeds invested for his benefit.
SEC. 845 (845). All petitions for the foreclosure or satisfaction of mortgages
shall be filed in the district court in chancery where the mortgaged premises are
situated.
SEC. 846 (846). Whenever a petition shall be filed for the foreclosure or satisfac
tion of a mortgage, the court shall have power to decree a sale of the mortgaged
premises, or such part thereof as may be sufficient to discharge the amount due on
the mortgage, and the cost of suit.

SEC. 848 (848). After such petition shall be filed, while the same is pending,
and after a decree rendered thereon, no proceedings whatever shall be had at law
for the recovery of the debt secured by the mortgage, or any part thereof.
SEC. 850 (850). Upon filing a petition for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a
mortgage, the complainant shall state therein whether any proceedings have been
had at law for the recovery of the debt secured thereby, or any part thereof, and
whether such debt, or any part thereof, has been collected and paid.

SEC. 851 (851). If it appear that any judgment has been obtained in a suit at
law for the money demanded by such petition, or any part thereof, no proceedings
shall be had in such case, unless, to an execution against the property of the de
fendant in such judgment, the sheriff or other proper officer shall have returned
that the execution is unsatisfied in whole or in part, and that the defendant has
no property whereof to satisfy such execution except the mortgaged premises.
SEC. 852 (852). All sales of mortgaged premises, under a decree in chancery shall
be made by a sheriff or some other person authorized by the court in the county
where the premises or some part of them are situated, * and in all cases where
the sheriff shall make such sale he shall act in his official capacity and he shall be
liable on his official bond for all his acts therein, and shall receive the same com
pensation as is provided by law for like services upon sales under execution.

SEC. 853 (853). Deeds shall thereupon be executed by such sheriff, which shall
vest in the purchaser the same estate that would have vested in the mortgagee if
the equity of redemption had been foreclosed, and no other or greater ; and such
deeds shall be as valid as if executed by the mortgagor and mortgagee, and shall
be an entire bar against each of them, and all parties to the suit in which the decree
for such sale was made, and against their heirs respectively, and all persons
claiming under such heirs.
SEC. 854 (854). The proceeds of every sale made under a decree in chancery
shall be applied to the discharge of the debt adjudged by such court to be due,
and of the costs awarded, and if there be any surplus, it shall be brought into
court for the use of the defendant, or of the persons entitled thereto, subject to
the order of the court.

SEC. 855 (855). If such surplus, or any part thereof, shall remain in said court
for the term of three months without being applied for, the court may direct the
same to be put out at interest under the direction of the court, for the benefit of
the defendant, his representatives or assigns, to be paid to them by the order of
such court.
SEC. 856 (856).' Whenever a petition shall be filed for the satisfaction or fore-
closure of any mortgage, upon which there shall be due any interest on any por
tion or installment of the principal, and there shall be other portions or install
ments to become due subsequently, the petition shall be dismissed upon the de
fendant bringing into court, at any time before the decree of sale, the principal
and interest due, with costs.
SEC. 857 (857). If, after a decree for sale, entered against a defendant in such
case, he shall bring into court the principal and interest due, with costs, the pro
ceedings in the suit shall be stayed, but the court shall enter a decree of fore
closure and sale, to be enforced by a further order of the court, upon a subsequent
default in the payment of any portion or installment of the principal, or any in
terest thereafter to grow due.
SEC. 858 (858). If the defendant shall not bring into court the amount due, with
costs, or if for any other cause a decree shall pass for the complainant, the court
may direct a reference to a sheriff to ascertain and report the situation of the
mortgaged premises, or may determine the same on oral or other testimony, and
if it shall appear that the same can be sold in parcels, without injury to the parties,
the decree shall direct so much of the mortgaged premises to be sold as will be
sufficient to pay the amount then due on such mortgage, with costs, and such de
cree shall remain a security for any subsequent default.
SEC. 859 (859). If, in the case mentioned in the preceding section, there shall be
any default subsequent to such decree in the payment of any portion or install
ment of the principal, or any interest due upon such mortgage, the court may,
upon the petition of the complainant, by a further order, founded upon such first
decree, direct a sale of so much of the mortgaged premises to be made, under such
decree, as will be sufficient to satisfy the amount so due, with the costs of such
petition and the subsequent proceedings thereon, and the same proceedings may
be had as often as a default shall happen.
SEC. 860 (860). If, in any of the foregoing cases, it shall appear to the court that
the mortgaged premises are so situated that a sale of the whole will be most bene
ficial to the parties, the decree shall, in the first instance, be entered for the sale
of the whole premises accordingly.
SEC. 861 (861). In such case the proceeds of such sale shall be applied as well to
the interest, portion, or installment of the principal due as towards the whole or
residue of the sum secured by such mortgage, and not due and payable at the time
of such sale, and if such residue do not bear interest, then the court may direct the
same to be paid with a rebate of the legal interest, for the time during which such
residue shall not be due and payable, or the court may direct the balance of the
proceeds of such sale, after paying the sum due, with costs, to be put out at in
terest, for the benefit of the complainant, to be paid to him as the installments or
portions of the principal or the interest may become due, and the surplus for the
benefit of the defendant, his representatives or assigns, to be paid to them on the
order of the court.
SEC. 862 (862). All controversies which might be the subject of civil actions,
may be submitted to the decision of one or more arbitrators as hereinafter pro
vided.
SEC. 863 (863). The parties themselves, or those persons who might lawfully
have controlled a civil action in their behalf, for the same subject-matter, must
sign a written agreement specifying particularly what demands are to be sub
mitted, the names of the arbitrators, and the court by which the judgment on their
award is to be rendered.
SEC. 864 (864). They shall then appear before some justice of the peace of the
county and acknowledge the instrument by them signed to be their free act and
deed.

SEC. 865 (865). The submission may be of some particular matters or demands,
or of all demands which the one party has against the other, or of all mutual de
mands on both sides.
SEC. 866 (866). A submission to arbitrators of the subject-matter of a suit may
also be made by an order of court, upon an agreement of parties, after suit is
commenced.
SEC. 867 (867). All the rules prescribed by law in cases of referees are appli
cable to arbitrators, except as herein otherwise expressed, or except as otherwise
agreed upon by the parties.
SEC. 868 (868). Neither party shall have the power to revoke the submission
without the consent of the other.
SEC. 869 (869). If either party neglect to appear before the arbitrators, after
due notice, they may nevertheless proceed to hear and determine the cause upon
the evidence which is produced before them.
SEC. 870 (870). If the time within which the award is to be made is fixed in the
submission, no award made after that time shall have any legal effect, unless made
upon a recommitment of the matter by the court to which it is reported.
SEC. 871 (871). If the time of filing the award is not fixed in the submission, it
must be filed within one year from the time such submission is signed and ac
knowledged, unless by mutual consent the time is prolonged.
SEC. 872 (872). The award must be in writing, and shall be delivered by one
of the arbitrators to the court designated in the agreement, or it may be enclosed
and sealed by them and transmitted to the court, and not opened until the court
so orders.
SEC. 873 (873). The cause shall be entered on the docket of the court at the
term to which the award is returned, and shall be called up and acted upon in
its order. But the court may require actual notice to be given to either party,
when it appears necessary and proper, before proceeding to act on the award.
SEC. 873 (873). The award may be rejected by the court for any legal and
sufficient reasons, or it may be recommitted for a rehearing to the same arbitrators,
or any others^agreed upon by the parties.
SEC. 874 (874). When the award has been confirmed, it shall be filed and
entered on the record, and shall have the same force and effect as the verdict of a
jury. Judgment may be entered and execution issued accordingly.
SEC. 875 (875). When an appeal is taken from such judgment, copies of the
submission and award, together with all affidavits, shall be returned to the su
preme court.

SEC. 876 (876). If there is no provision in the submission respecting costs, arbi
trators may award them at their discretion.
SEC. 877 (877). The compensation of the arbitrators shall be two dollars per
day, for the time actually and necessarily spent, unless the court fix a less
amount; and the fees of the justice of the peace shall be twenty-five cents for
making out the agreement of submission (in case he does so), and the like amount
for taking and certifying the acknowledgement thereto.
SEC. 878 (878). Nothing herein contained shall be construed to affect in any
manner the control of the district court over the parties, the arbitrators or their
award, nor to impair or affect any action upon an award or upon any bond or
other engagement to abide an award.
SEC. 880 (880). The style of all processes shall be "The State of Nebraska,
county." It shall be under the seal of the court from whence the same shall issue,
shall be signed by the clerk, and dated the day it issued.
SEC. 881 (881). An order for a provisional remedy or any other process, in an
action wherein the sheriff is a party, or is interested, shall be directed to the cor
oner. If both these officers are interested, the process shall be directed to and
executed by a person appointed by the court or judge.

SEC. 882 (882). The court or judge, for good cause, may appoint a person to
serve a particular process or order, who shall have the same poweY to execute it
which the sheriff has. The person may be appointed on the motion of the party
obtaining the process or order, and the return must be verified by affidavit. He
shall be entitled to the fees allowed to the sheriff for similar services.
SEC. 883 (883). All writs and orders for provisional remedies and process of
every kind, shall be issued by the clerks of the several courts. Before they shall
be issued, a precipe shall be filed with the clerk, demanding the same; which
precipe shall be for the direction of the clerk, and not material to the papers in the
case after the issuing of such writ of process.
SEC. 884 (884). It is the duty of the clerk of each of the courts to file together
and carefully preserve in his office all papers delivered to him for that purpose,
in every action or special proceeding.
SEC. 885 (885). He shall endorse upon every paper filed with him, the day of
filing it ; and upon every order for a provisional remedy, and upon every under
taking given under the same, the day of its return to his office.
SEC. 886 (886). He shall, upon the return of every summons served, enter upon
the docket the name of the defendant or defendants summoned, and the day of
the service upon each one. The entry shall be evidence of the service of the sum
mons, in case of the loss thereof.
SEC. 887 (887). He shall keep the records and books and papers appertaining to
the court, and record its proceedings.

SEC. 888 (888). The provisions of article eight, of title nine, [1306] of this code,
prescribing the duties of clerks of the district court, shall, as far as they are ap
plicable, apply to the clerks of other courts of record.
SEC. 889. (889.).The clerk of each of the courts shall exercise the powers and
perform the duties conferred and imposed upon him by other provisions of this
code, by other statutes, and by the common law. In the performance of his duties
he shall be under the direction of his court.
SEC. 890 (890). The sheriff shall endorse upon every summons, order of arrest,
or for the delivery of property, or of attachment or injunction, the day and the
hour it was received by him.
SEC. 891 (891). He shall execute every summons, order, or other process, and
return the same as required by law; and if he fail to do so, unless he make it
appear to the satisfaction of the court that he was prevented by inevitable accident
from so doing, he shall be amerced by the court in a sum not exceeding one
thousand dollars, and shall be liable to the action of any person aggrieved by such
failure.

SEC. 892 (892). The sheriff shall exercise the powers and perform the duties
conferred and imposed upon him by other provisions of this code, by other stat
utes, and by the common law.
SEC. 893 (893). Any duty enjoined by this code upon a ministerial officer, and
any act permitted to be done by him, may be performed by his lawful deputy.
SEC. 894 (894). Whenever an oath is required by this code, the affirmation of a
person conscientiously scrupulous of taking an oath, shall have the same effect.
SEC. 895 (895). The time within which an act is to be done as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last; if the last
day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.

SEC. 896 (896). Section four hundred and thirty two [1422] shall not be con
strued to impair the right of a party to a jury, if he appear at the trial by him
self or attorney, and demand the same.
SEC. 897 (897). The ministerial officer, whose duty it is to take security in any
undertaking provided for by this code, shall have the right to require the person
offered as surety to make an affidavit of his qualifications, which affidavit may
be made before such officer. The taking of such an affidavit shall not exempt the
officer from any liability to which he might otherwise be subject for taking insuf
ficient security.
SEC. 898 (898). The surety in every undertaking provided for by this code must
be a resident of this state, and worth double the sum to be secured, beyond the
amount of his debts, and have property liable to execution in this state, equal to the
sum to be secured ; * but this provision shall not be held to apply to incorporated
surety companies authorized by the laws of this state to transact business. * Where
there are two or more sureties in the same undertaking, they must in the aggregate
have the qualifications prescribed in this section,! but this provision shall not
apply to incorporated surety companies.

SEC. 899 (899). The judges of the supreme court shall, during the month of the
first January after this code shall take effect, and every two years thereafter,
meet at the capital of the state and revise their general rules, and make such
amendments thereto as may be necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this
code; and they shall make such further rules consistent therewith as they may
deem proper. The rules so made shall apply to the supreme court and the dis
trict courts.
SEC. 900 (900). The provisions of this code do not apply to proceedings in
actions or suits pending when it takes effect. They shall be conducted to final
judgment or decree, in all respects as if it had not been adopted ; but the provisions
of this code shall apply after a judgment, order or decree heretofore or hereafter
rendered, to the proceedings to enforce, vacate, modify or reverse it.
SEC. 900 (900). Rights of civil action given or secured by existing laws shall
be prosecuted in the manner provided by this code, except as provided in the fol
lowing section. If a case ever arise in which an action for the enforcement or
protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong, can not be had
under this code, the practice heretofore in use may be adopted so far as may be
necessary to prevent a failure of justice.
SEC. 902 (902). Until the legislature shall otherwise provide, this code shall not
affect proceedings on habeas corpus, quo warranto, or to assess damages for pri
vate property taken for public uses; nor proceedings under the statutes for the
settlement of estates of deceased persons ; nor proceedings under statutes relating
to dower, divorce, or alimony, or to establish or set aside a will ; nor proceedings
under statutes relating to apprentices, arbitration, bastardy, or insolvent debtors ;
nor any special statutory remedy not heretofore obtained by action ; but such pro
ceedings may be prosecuted under the code whenever it is applicable.
SEC. 903 (903). Where, by general or special statute, a civil action, legal or
equitable, is given and the mode of proceeding therein is prescribed, this code shall
not affect the proceedings under such statute, until the legislature shall otherwise
provide ; but in all such cases, as far as it may be consistent with the statute giv
ing such action, and practicable under this code, the proceedings shall be con
ducted in conformity thereto. Where the statute designates by name or otherwise
the kind of action, but does not prescribe the mode of proceeding therein, such
action shall be commenced and prosecuted in conformity to this code ; where the
statute gives an action, but does not designate the kind of action, or prescribe the
mode of proceeding therein, such action shall be held to be the civil action of this
code, and proceeded in accordingly.
SEC. 1850 (1850). The final orders or decree of chancery heretofore rendered, or which
may hereafter be rendered, in any chancery proceedings pending at the time this
act shall take effect, may be enforced or reviewed in the same manner, and within
the same time, as if this act had not taken effect " and all suits in chancery pending
at the time of the taking effect of this act may be prosecuted to final decree in
like manner.

SEC. 1851 (1851). The words hereinafter found in the code of civil procedure shall be
construed and held to mean as follows, to-wit: "complainant" shall mean plain
tiff ; "bill" or "complaint" shall mean petition ; "suit" shall mean action or civil
action; and "decree" shall mean judgment; and all other words and terms found
in the said code of civil procedure, heretofore applicable to the chancery practice
hereby repealed, shall be so construed and held as to carry out the intention of this
act, prevent a failure of justice, and give adequate relief in all cases.

SEC. 904 (904). The jurisdiction of justices of the peace in civil cases shall,
unless otherwise directed by law, be limited to the county wherein they mav
have been elected, and where they shall reside.

SEC. 905 (905). [Matters.] —Justices of the peace, within and co-extensive
with their respective counties, shall have jurisdiction and authority : First—To
administer an oath or affirmation authorized or required by law to be administered.
Second—To take the acknowledgement of deeds, mortgages, and other instru
ments of writing. Third—To solemnize marriages. Fourth—To issue subpoena
for witnesses and coerce their attendance in causes or matters pending before
them, or other cause of matter wherein they may be required to take depositions.
Fifth—To try the action for forcible entry and detention, or the detention only,
of real property. Sixth—To proceed against security for costs and bail for the
stay of execution on their dockets. Seventh—To issue attachments, and proceed
against the goods and effects of debtors in certain cases. Eighth—To issue execu
tions on judgments rendered by them. Ninth—To proceed against constables,
failing to make return, making false return, or failing to pay over money col
lected on execution, issued by such justice. Tenth—To try the right of the claim
ant to property taken in execution or on attachment.

SEC. 906 (906). Justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction in actions for tres
pass on real estate, where the damages demanded for such trespass shall not ex
ceed two hundred dollars, and no claim of title to such real estate set up by the de
fendant shall take away or affect the jurisdiction hereby given.

SEC. 907 (907). Justices shall not have cognizance of any action: First—To
recover damages for an assault, or assault and battery. Second—In any action for
malicious prosecution. Third—In actions against justices of the peace, or other
officers, for misconduct in office, except in the cases provided for in this title.
Fourth—In actions for slander, verbal or written. Fifth—In actions on contracts
for real estate. Sixth—In actions in which the title to real estate is sought to be
recovered, or may be drawn in question, except actions for trespass on real estate,
which are provided for in this title. 
SEC. 908 (908). Actions before justices of the peace are commenced by sum
mons or by the appearance and agreement of the parties without summons. In
the former the action is deemed commenced, upon delivery of the writ to the con
stable to be served ; and he shall note thereon the time of receiving the same. In
the latter case the action is deemed commenced at the time of docketing the case.
SEC. 909 (909). When a guardian to the suit is necessary, he must be appointed
by the justice as follows: First—If the infant be plaintiff, the appointment must
be made before the summons is issued upon the application of the infant, if he be
of the age of fourteen years or upwards ; if under that age, upon the application
of some friend. The consent in writing of the guardian to be appointed, and to be
responsible for costs if he fail in the action, must be filed with the justice. Second
—If the infant be defendant, the guardian must be appointed before trial. It is
the right of the infant to nominate his own guardian, if the infant be over four
teen years of age, and the proposed guardian be present and consent in writing to
be appointed. Otherwise the justice may appoint any suitable person who gives
such consent.
SEC. 910 (910). The style of the summons shall be: "The state of Nebraska,
county;" it shall be dated the day it is issued, and signed by the justice
issuing the same ; be directed to the constable or sheriff of the proper county ( ex
cept in case a person be deputed to serve it, in which case it shall be directed to
such person) ; must contain the names of defendant or defendants, if known, and
if unknown, give a description of him or them, and command the officer or per
son serving the same, to summon the defendant or defendants to appear before
such justice, at his office, in county, at a time specified therein ; and must
describe the plaintiff's cause of action in such general terms as to apprise the de
fendant of the nature of the claim against him. There shall be endorsed on the
writ the amount for which the plaintiff will take judgment if the defendant fail
to appear. If the defendant fail to appear, judgment shall not be rendered for a
larger amount and the costs.
SEC. 911 (911). The summons must be returnable not more than twelve days
from its date, and must, unless accompanied with an order to arrest, be served at
least three days before the time of appearance, by delivering a copy of the sum
mons, with the endorsement thereon (certified by the constable or person serving
the same to be a true copy), to the defendant, or leaving the same at his usual
place of residence ; Provided, That an acknowledgement on the back of the sum
mons, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant is equivalent to service.
SEC. 912 (912). A summons against a corporation may be served upon the
president, mayor, chairman of the board of directors or trustees, or other chief
officer, or if its chief officer be not found in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer,
secretary, clerk, or managing agent ; or, if none of the aforesaid officers can be
found, by a copy left at the office, or usual place of business of such corporation,
with the person having charge thereof.
SEC. 913 (913). When the defendant is an incorporated insurance company,
and the action is brought in a county in which there is an agency thereof, the
service may be upon the chief officer of such agency.
SEC. 914 (914). When the defendant is a foreign corporation, having a man
aging agent in this state, the service may be upon such agent.
SEC. 915 (915). When the defendant is a minor under the age of fourteen years
the service must be upon him and upon his guardian or father; or, if neither of
these can be found, then upon his mother, or the person having the care or control
of the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither of these can be found, or if the
minor be more than fourteen years of age, service on him alone shall be suf
ficient. The manner of service may be the same as in the case of adults.
SEC. 916 (916). The parties are entitled to one hour in which to appear, after
the time mentioned in the summons for appearance, but are not bound to remain
longer than that time, unless both parties have appeared, and the justice being
present, is engaged in the trial of another cause. In such case, the justice may
postpone the time of appearance until the close of such trial.

SEC. 925 (925). The plaintiff shall have an order of attachment against the
property of the defendant, in a civil action before a justice of the peace, for the
recovery of money before or after the commencement thereof, when there is
filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney showing the
nature of the plaintiff's claim, that it is just, the amount which the affiant believes
the plaintiff ought to recover, and the existence of some one or more of the fol
lowing particulars : First—That the defendant, or one of the several defendants, is
a foreign corporation, or is a non-resident of the state; or, Second—Has ab
sconded, with interrMo defraud his creditors ; or, Third—Has left the county of
his residence to avoid the service of a summons ; or Fourth—So conceals himself
that a summons can not be served upon him; or, Fifth—Is about to remove his
property, or a part thereof, out of the county, with the intent to defraud his cred
itors; or, Sixth—Is about to convert his property, or a part thereof, into money,
for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of creditors; or, Seventh—Has
property or rights in action, which he conceals ; or, Eighth—Has assigned, re
moved or disposed of, or is about to dispose of his property, or a part thereof,
with intent to defraud his creditors ; or, Ninth—Fraudulently contracted the debt,
or incurred the obligation for which suit is about to be or has been brought. When
the defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of the state, the attach
ment shall not be granted, unless the claim is for a debt or demand arising upon
contract, judgment or decree.
SEC. 926 (926). When the ground of attachment is, that the defendant is a for
eign corporation, or a non-resident of the state, the order of attachment may be
issued without an undertaking, but in all other cases the order of attachment
shall not be issued by the justice until there has been executed in his office, by one
or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, to be approved by the justice, an un
dertaking not exceeding double the amount of the plaintiff's claim, to the effect
that the plaintiff shall pay the defendant all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the attachment, if the order be wrongfully obtained.

SEC. 927 (927). The order of attachment may be made to accompany the sum
mons, or it may be issued at any time afterwards before judgment; it shall be
addressed and delivered to any constable or sheriff of the proper county, and
shall require him to attach the goods, chattels, stocks or interest in stocks, rights,
credits, moneys, and effects of the defendant in his county, not exempt by law
from being applied to the payment of the plaintiff's claim, or so much thereof as
will satisfy the plaintiff's claim, to be stated in the order as in the affidavit, and
the probable costs of the action, not exceeding fifty dollars.
SEC. 928 (928). The return day of the order of attachment, when issued at the
commencement of the action, shall be the same as that of the summons; when
issued afterwards, it shall he executed and returned forthwith.
SEC. 929 (929). When there are several orders of attachment against the same
person in the hands of the same officer, they shall be executed in the order in
which they are received by said officer ; he shall go to the place where the defend
ant's property may be found, and there, in the presence of two credible persons,
declare that, by virtue of said order, he attaches said property at the suit of said
plaintiff ; and the officer, with two residents of the county, who shall be first
sworn or affirmed by the officer, shall make a true inventory and appraisement of
all property attached, which shall be signed by the officer and said residents, and
returned with the order; when the property can be come at, he shall take the
same into his custody, and hold it subject to the order of the justice.

SEC. 930 (930). The officer shall deliver the property attached to the person in
whose possession it was found, upon the execution by such person, in the presence
of the officer, of an undertaking to the plaintiff, with one or more sufficient sure
ties resident in the county, to the effect that the parties to the same are bound, in
double the appraised value thereof, that the property, or its appraised value in
money, shall be forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in the action ;
but if it shall appear to the court that any part of said property has been lost or
destroyed by unavoidable accident, the value thereof shall be remitted to the
person or persons so bound.

SEC. 931 (931). Different attachments of the same property may be made, and
one inventory and appraisement shall be sufficient. The lien of the attachments
shall be in the order in which they are served, and the subsequent attachments
shall be served on the property, as in the hands of the officer, and subject to the
prior attachments. The justice who issued the attachment having the priority of
lien shall determine all questions as to the priority of liens on the property
attached.
SEC. 932 (932). If the order of attachment is made to accompany the summons,
a copy thereof, and the summons, shall be served upon the defendant in the usual
manner for the service of a summons, if the same can be done within the county ;
and when any property of the defendant has been taken under the order of at
tachment, and it shall appear that the summons issued on the action has not been
and can not be served on the defendant in the county, in the manner prescribed
by law, the justice of the peace shall continue the cause for a period not less than
forty days nor more than sixty days, whereupon the plaintiff shall proceed for
three consecutive weeks to publish, in some newspaper printed in the county, or if
none be printed therein, then in some newspaper of general circulation in said
county, a notice, stating the names of the parties, the time when, by what justice
of the peace, and for what sum said order was issued, and shall make proof of
such publication to the justice; and thereupon said action shall be proceeded with,
the same as if summons had been duly served.
SEC. 933 (933). When the cause is continued as provided for in the preceding section, and it shall appear that any of the property taken under the attachment
is live stock, or is of a perishable nature, the justice may issue his order, directing
the officer having the custody thereof to dispose of the same as upon execution ;
and the moneys realized therefrom shall be paid over to the justice, and applied as
other money realized from the sale of the property attached is applied.
SEC. 934 (934). When the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall make oath in
writing, that he has good reason to believe, and does believe, that any person -or
corporation, to be named, and within the county where the action is brought, has
property of the defendant (describing the same) in his possession, if the officer
can not come at such property, he shall leave with such garnishee a copy of the
order of attachment, with a written notice, that he appear before the justice at the
return of the order of the attachment, and answer as provided in section nine hun
dred and thirty-six.
SEC. 935 (935). The copy of the order and the notice shall be served upon the
garnishee, as follows: If he be a person, they shall be served upon him person-,
ally, or left at his usual place of residence ; if a corporation, they shall be left with
the president or other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier, or managing
agent thereof.

SEC. 936 (936). The garnishee shall appear before the justice, in accordance
with the command of the notice, and shall answer, under oath, all questions put to
him touching the property of every description, and credits of the defendant, in his
possession or under his control, and he shall disclose, truly, the amount owing by
him to the defendant, whether due or not, and, in the case of a corporation, any
stock therein held by or for the benefit of the defendant, at or after the service of
the notice.
SEC. 937 (937). A garnishee may pay the money owing to the defendant by
him, to the officer having the order of attachment, or into the court. He shall be
discharged from liability to the defendant for any money so paid, not exceeding
the plaintiff's claim. He shall not be subjected to costs beyond those caused by
his resistance of the claim against him; and if he disclose the property in his
hands, or the true amount owing by him, and deliver or pay the same according
to the order of the court, he shall be allowed his costs.
SEC. 938 (938). If the garnishee do not appear and answer, as required by sec
tion nine hundred and thirty-six, the justice may proceed against him by attach
ment as for a contempt.
SEC. 939 (939). If garnishee appear and answer, and it is discovered, on his
examination that at or after the service of the order of attachment and notice
upon him he was possessed of any property of the defendant, or was indebted to
him, the justice may order the delivery of such property and the payment of the
amount owing by the garnishee into the court, or may permit the garnishee to re
tain the property or the amount owing, upon the execution of an undertaking to
the plaintiff, by one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the amount shall
be paid, or the property forthcoming, as the court may direct.
SEC. 940 (940). If the garnishee fail to appear and answer, or if he appear and
answer, and his disclosure is not satisfactory to the plaintiff, or if he fail to com
ply with the order of the justice to deliver the property and pay the money owing
into court, or give the undertaking required in the preceding section, the plaintiff
may proceed against him in an action in his own name, as in other cases; and
thereupon such proceedings may be had as in other actions, and judgment may be
rendered in favor of the plaintiff for the amount of the property and credits of
every kind of the defendant in the possession of the garnishee, and for what shall
appear to be owing by him to the defendant, and for the costs of the proceedings
against the garnishee. If the plaintiff proceed against the garnishee by action, for
the cause that his disclosure was unsatisfactory, unless it appear in the action that
such disclosure was incomplete, the plaintiff shall pay the costs of such action.
The judgment in this action may be enforced as judgments in other cases. When
the claims of the plaintiff in attachment are satisfied, the defendant in the attach
ment may, on motion, be substituted as the plaintiff in the judgment.

SEC. 941 (941). Final judgment shall not be rendered against the garnishee
until the action against the defendant in attachment has been determined; and if,
in such action, judgment be rendered for the defendant in attachment, the gar
nishee shall be discharged, and recover costs. If the plaintiff shall recover against
the defendant in attachment, and the garnishee shall deliver up all property,
moneys and credits of the defendant, in his possession, and pay all the moneys
from him due as the court may order, the garnishee shall be discharged, and the
costs of the proceedings against him shall be paid out of the property and moneys
so surrendered, or as the court may think right and proper.
SEC. 942 (942). If judgment be rendered in the action for the defendant, the at
tachment shall be discharged, and the property attached or its proceeds shall be
returned to him.

SEC. 943 (943). If judgment be rendered for the plaintiff, it shall be satisfied
as follows : So much of the property remaining in the hands of the officer, after
applying the moneys arising from the sale of perishable property, if any, whether
held by legal or equitable right, as may be necessary to satisfy the judgment,
shall be sold by order of the justice, under the same restrictions and regulations
as if the same had been levied on by execution ; and the money arising therefrom,
with the amount which may be recovered from the garnishee, shall be applied to
satisfy the judgment and costs.- If there be not enough to satisfy the same, the
judgment shall stand, and execution may issue thereon for the residue, in all re
spects as in other cases. Any surplus of the attached property or its proceeds
shall be returned to the defendant.
SEC. 944 (944). The justice may order the officer to repossess himself, for the
purpose of selling it, of any of the attached property which may have passed out
of his hands without being sold or converted into money, and the officer shall un
der such order have the same power to take the property as he would have under
an order of attachment.
SEC. 945 (945). If any of the property which has been attached, be claimed by
any person other than the defendant, the claimant may have the validity of such
claim tried, and such proceedings must be had thereon, with like effect, as in case
the property had been seized upon execution issued by the justice and claimed by
a third person [ 1938]
SEC. 946 (946). Where several attachments are executed on the same property,
or the same persons are made garnishees, the justice issuing the first order, served
on the motion of any of the plaintiffs, may determine the amounts and priorities
of the several attachments, and the proceeds shall be applied accordingly.
SEC. 947 (947). The officer shall return upon every order of attachment what
he has done under it. The return must show the property attached, and the time
it was attached. When garnishees are served, their names, and the time each was
served, must be stated. The officer shall also return, with the order, all undertak
ings given under it.
SEC. 948 (948). An order of attachment binds the property attached from the
time of service, and the garnishee shall stand liable to the plaintiff in attachment
for all property, moneys and credits in his hands, or due from him to the defend
ant, from the time he is served with the written notice mentioned in section nine
hundred and thirty-four; but when property is attached in the hands of a con
signee or other person having a prior lien, his lien thereon shall not be affected by
the attachment.
SEC. 949 (949). If the defendant, or other person in his behalf, at any time be
fore judgment, cause an undertaking to be executed to the plaintiff by ope or
more sureties resident in the county, to be approved by the justice, in double the
amount of the plaintiff's claim, to be stated in his affidavit, to the effect that the
defendant shall perform the judgment of the justice, the attachment in such action
shall be discharged, and restitution made of any property taken under it, or the
proceeds thereof ; such undertaking shall also discharge the liability of a garnishee
in such action, for any property of the defendant in his hands.
SEC. 950 (950). If in any case where an order of attachment has been issued by a
justice of the peace it shall appear from the return of the officer and from the ex
amination of the garnishee, that no property, moneys, rights, credits or effects of
the defendant have been taken under the attachment, but that the defendant is
the owner of an interest in real estate in the county, the justice before whom
said action is pending, shall, at the request of the plaintiff, forthwith certify his
proceedings to the district court of the proper county, and thereupon the clerk
of said court shall docket said cause, and the action shall be proceeded with in
said court in all respects as if the same had originated therein.
SEC. 951 (951). In all cases before a justice, the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney,
shall file with such justice a bill of the particulars of his demand, and the defend
ant, if required by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall file a like bill of the
particulars he may claim as a set-off ; and the evidence on the trial shall be con
fined to the items set forth in said bills.
SEC. 952 (952). The bill of particulars must state, in a plain and direct manner,
the facts constituting the cause of action, or the claim to be set off.
SEC. 953 (953). The bill of particulars may be amended. at any time before the
trial, or during the trial, or upon appeal, to supply any deficiency or omission in
the items, when, by such amendments, substantial justice will be promoted. If the
amendment be made at the time of or during the trial, and it be made to appear
to the satisfaction of the justice, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the
adverse party, in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment must be
granted. The justice may also, in his discretion, require, as a condition of an
amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by the justice;
but such payment can not be required unless an adjournment is made necessary
by the amendment.

SEC. 954 (954). The place of trial may be changed, if, on the return of process,
or at any time before trial shall have commenced, it shall be made satisfactorily
to appear to the justice of the peace before whom any cause is instituted, or
is pending for trial, by the affidavit of either of the parties in the case, that such
justice is a material witness for either party, or, if a jury be demanded by the ad
verse party, then that he can not, as he verily believes, have a fair and impartial
trial in the precinct or place for which said justice may have been elected, on ac
count of the bias or prejudice of the citizens thereof.
SEC. 955 (955). If the place of trial be changed on account of the justice being
a material witness in the causel such cause may be transferred for trial before
some other justice of the peace in the same precinct. If the place of trial be
changed on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens of such precinct or
place, the case shall be taken to some justice in an adjoining precinct in the same
county. 
SEC. 956 (956). The justice granting such change shall deliver or transmit the
papers in the cause, together with a certified transcript of the proceedings before
him, to the justice to whom such change may be granted, who shall proceed
therein and have the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties, in all respects what
ever, as if suit had been originally instituted before him.
SEC. 957 (957). Before any such change shall be allowed, the costs, as specified
in the next following section, shall be paid by the party applying for such change.
SEC. 958 (958). When such change is at the instance of the plaintiff, he shall be
taxed with all the costs which have accrued, and which shall accrue in the cause,
until such transcript and papers shall be delivered to the justice to whom such
cause is removed for trial; and when on the application of the defendant, he
shall be taxed for the costs which have accrued for issuing subpoenas for wit
nesses, and service thereof, witness fees, and costs of the justice for transferring
the cause to the docket of the other justice.

SEC. 1899 (1899). That in all civil and criminal proceedings before justices of the peace,
any defendant in such proceedings may apply for and obtain a change of venue, by
filing an affidavit in the case made by the defendant, his agent or attorney, stat
ing that the defendant can not, as affiant verily believes, have a fair and impar
tial hearing in the case on account of the interest, bias, or prejudice of the justice,
and by paying the costs now required to be paid by defendant on change of venue,
for the causes and in the cases mentioned in chapter four of title thirty, part two
of the Revised Statutes (1898), and thereupon the . proceedings shall be trans
ferred to the nearest justice of the peace, to whom the said objections do not apply,
of the same county, to be proceeded with in the manner pointed out for the trans
fer and procedure in cases on change of venue for cause mentioned in said chap
ter four.

SEC. 1900 (1900). The application shall be made before entering upon the merits of the
case by the introduction and reception of evidence; and no second change of
venue shall be allowed for the same cause in the same proceeding.
SEC. 959 (959). Upon the return day, if a jury be required, or if the justice be
actually engaged in other official business, he may adjourn the trial without the
consent of either party, as follows : First—Where a party is in attendance who is
not a resident of the county, or where the defendant is in attendance under arrest,
ithe adjournment not to exceed forty-eight hours, and the defendant, if under ar
rest, to continue in custody. Second—In other cases, not to exceed eight days,
unless by consent of parties. If the trial be not adjourned, it must take place im
mediately upon the return of the summons.
SEC. 960 (960). The trial may be adjourned upon the application of either
party, without the consent of the other, for a period not exceeding thirty days, as
follows: the party asking the adjournment must, if required by his adversary,
prove by his own oath, or otherwise, that he can not, for want of material testi
mony which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial.
SEC. 961 (961). An adjournment may be had either at the return day, or at any
subsequent time to which the cause may stand adjourned, on the application of
either party, for a period longer than thirty days, but not to exceed ninety days
from the time of the return of the summons, upon compliance with the provisions
of the preceding section, and upon proof by the oath of the party, or otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the justice, that such party can not be ready for trial before
the time to which he desires an adjournment for the want of material evidence,
describing it, that the delay has not been made necessary by any act or negligence
on his part since the action was commenced, and that he expects to procure the
evidence at the time stated by him.

SEC. 962 (962). Any justice may issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of
witnesses to give evidence on any trial pending before himself, or for the purpose
of taking depositions, or to perpetuate testimony.
SEC. 963 (963). A subpoena may be served by a constable or any other person,
and shall be served by reading the same or stating the contents thereof to the wit
ness, or by leaving a copy thereof at his usual place of residence.
SEC. 964 (964). When not served by a constable or sheriff, or some person
deputed for that purpose by a justice, no fees shall be charged in the suit for
serving it.
SEC. 965 (965). If any witness, having been subpoenaed, attend and be not ex
amined by either party, the costs of such witness shall be paid by the party order
ing the subpoena, unless the adverse party, by confessing the matter, or other
wise, render unnecessary the examination of such witness.
SEC. 966 (966). Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of a justice, by
proof made before him, that any person has been duly served with a subpoena to
appear and give testimony before him in any matter in which he has authority to
require such witness to appear and testify, that his testimony is material, and that
he refuses or neglects to attend as such witness in conformity with such subpoena,
the justice shall issue a warrant for the arrest of the delinquent, for the purpose
of compelling his attendance, and punishing his disobedience.
SEC. 967 (967). When a person arrested is brought before the justice, or when
a person in attendance refuses to testify as a witness, and no valid excuse be
shown, the justice may impose a fine on him not exceeding five dollars. An entry
of such fine, stating the reason therefor, must be made by the justice in his docket,
and thereupon shall have the effect of a judgment in favor of the state of Ne
braska against the delinquent, and may be enforced against his person or property.
SEC. 968 (968). Every person subpoenaed as aforesaid, and neglecting to ap
pear, or refusing to testify, shall also be liable to the party in whose behalf he shall
have been subpoenaed, for all damages which such party shall sustain by reason
of such delinquency.
SEC. 969 (969). [Depositions.] —Depositions may be taken to be read in a cause
pending before a justice of the peace, in like manner, and subject to the same re
strictions and rules of law, as in cases pending in the district court [1357 et
seq.].
SEC. 970 (970). At the time appointed for trial, if no jury shall have been de
manded by either party, the justice shall proceed to try the action, shall hear the
proofs, and determine the cause according to law and the right.
SEC. 971 (971). Where parties agree to enter, without process, before a justice,
any action of which such justice has cognizance, such justice shall enter the same
on his docket, and proceed to trial, judgment and execution, in all respects in the
same manner as if summons had been issued, served and returned.
SEC. 972 (972). [Jury-] —In all civil actions, after the appearance of the defend
ant, and before the court shall proceed to inquire into the merits of the cause,
either party may demand a jury to try the action, which jury shall be composed
of six* good and lawful men, having the qualifications of electors, unless the par-
ties shall agree on a less number. When a jury is demanded, the trial of the cause
must be adjourned until a time fixed for the return of the jury. If neither party
desire an adjournment, the time must be determined by the justice, and must be
on the same clay, or within the next two days the jury must be immediately se
lected, as herein provided.
SEC. 973 (973). The justice shall write in a panel the names of eighteen per
sons, citizens of the county, from which the defendant, his agent or attorney, shall
strike one, and then the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall strike one, and so on
alternately, until each shall have stricken six names, and the remaining six shall
constitute the jury to try such case ; and if either party neglect or refuse to aid in
striking the jury as aforesaid, the justice shall strike the same in behalf of such
party.
SEC. 974 (974). The justice thereupon shall issue a summons for the jury, in
which the following form shall be observed in substance, as near as practicable:
The State of Nebraska, County. To any Constable or Sheriff of
county : You are hereby commanded to summon to appear before me at
, in said county, on the day of , A. D. , at o'clock in the
noon, to serve as jurors in a case pending before me, then and there to be
tried. And this they shall in nowise omit. And have you then and there this
writ, with your doings thereon. Given under my hand, this day of ,
A. D. . •, Justice of the Peace.
SEC. 975 (975). The officer shall serve such summons by a personal service
thereof, and return the same, endorsed with the names of the persons summoned,
at the time appointed for the trial of the case. Jurors, for neglecting to attend
when properly summoned, or refusing to serve when in attendance, shall be liable
to the like penalty, and be proceeded against in the same manner, as witnesses
who fail to attend or refuse to testify.
SEC. 976 (976). The constable or sheriff shall be in attendance on the court at
and during the progress of the trial ; and if, from challenge or other cause, the
panel shall not be full, he may fill the same in the same manner as is done by the
sheriff in the district court.
SEC. 977 (977). When a jury shall be in attendance and the cause shall be con
tinued, the jurors must attend at the time and place appointed for trial without
further notice.
SEC. 978 (978). If either party object to the competency of a juror, the question
thereon must be tried in a summary manner by the justice, who may examine the
juror or other witness under oath.
SEC. 979 (979). The justice shall administer an oath or affirmation to the jury,
well and truly to try the matter in difference between the parties, and a true ver
dict to give according to the evidence.
SEC. 980 (980). After the jury shall have been sworn, they shall sit together and
hear proofs and allegations of the parties ; and after hearing the same, shall be
kept together in some convenient place, under the charge of a constable or sheriff,
until they have agreed upon their verdict, or shall be discharged by the justice.
SEC. 981 (981). When the jury shall have agreed upon their verdict, they shall
deliver it to the justice, publicly, who shall enter it upon his docket.
SEC. 982 (982). Whenever the justice shall be satisfied that a jury, sworn in
any cause before him, can not agree in the verdict, after having consulted upon it
a reasonable time, he may discharge them and continue the cause, and may, if re
quired by either party, proceed to strike another jury, as hereinbefore provided.
The cause shall be continued to such time as the justice thinks reasonable, unless
the parties, or their attorneys agree on a longer or shorter time, or unless they
agree that the justice may render judgment on the evidence already before him.

SEC. 983 (983). It shall be lawful for the justice before whom a cause has been
tried, on motion, and being satisfied that the verdict was obtained by fraud, par
tiality or undue means, at any time within four days after the entering of judg
ment, to grant a new trial, and he shall set a time for the new trial, of which the
opposite party shall have at least three days' notice.
SEC. 984 (984). The opposite party shall also have a reasonable notice of such
motion for a new trial, if the same is not made on the day of the former trial,
and in the presence of such party ; such notice to be given by the applying party.
If the new trial shall be granted or the jury be unable to agree, the proceedings
shall be in all respects as upon the return of the summons.
SEC. 985 (985). If either the plaintiff or defendant, in his bill of particulars,
claims more than twenty dollars, the case may be appealed to the district court;
but if neither party demands a greater sum than twenty dollars, and the case is
tried by a jury, there shall be no appeal. 
SEC. 986 (986). If, on an appeal by the plaintiff, * from a judgment in his favor,*
he shall not recover a larger sum than twenty dollars exclusive of interest since
the rendition of the judgment before the justice, he shall be adjudged to pay all
costs in the district court, including a fee of five dollars to the defendant's at
torney ; and in case the defendant shall demand a set-off greater than twenty dol
lars, and he appeals from a judgment in his favor, and does not recover twenty
dollars, he shall, in like manner, pay all costs in the appellate court, including a
like fee to the plaintiff's attorney. 

SEC. 987 (987). Upon the verdict being delivered to the justice, and before
judgment being rendered thereon, each juror shall be entitled to receive fifty
cents at the hands of the successful party, which shall be taxed in the cost bill
against the losing party. When the jury shall be unable to agree upon a verdict,
the same compensation shall be paid them by the party calling the jury, and the
same shall be taxed in the cost bill against the losing party.
SEC. 988 (988). In all cases which shall be tried by a jury before a justice of the
peace, either party shall have the right to except to the opinion of the justice,
upon any question of law arising during the trial of the cause; and when either
party shall allege such exception, it shall be the duty of the justice to sign and seal
a bill, containing such exception, if truly alleged, with the point decided, so that
the same may be made part of the record in the cause.
SEC. 989 (989). At any time before trial and judgment rendered, the plaintiff
and defendant consenting thereto, may have the cause submitted to the arbitra
ment of three disinterested men, who shall be chosen by the parties; and if the
arbitrators be present they shall hear and determine the cause on oath or affirma
tion, to be administered by the justice. But if the persons chosen as arbitrators be
not present, the justice shall issue summons for them to attend at the time and
place appointed for the trial, which shall be served by any constable, sheriff, or
the parties, as they may agree. The fees of arbitrators shall be the same as that
paid to jurors.
SEC. 990 (990). When the arbitrators shall convene and be qualified, they shall
proceed to hear and determine the cause, and make out their award in writing,
which shall be valid when signed by any two of them, and return the same to the
justice, who shall thereupon enter such award upon his docket, and thereon render
judgment and issue execution as in other cases.
SEC. 991 (991). Every judgment rendered on such award shall conclude tht
rights of the parties thereto, unless it shall be made to appear to the justice of the
peace who rendered such judgment, and within ten days of the rendition of the
same, or to the district court, on appeal, that such award was obtained by fraud,
corruption, or other undue means.
SEC. 992 (992). Whenever satisfactory proof shall be adduced before such jus
tice, within the period aforesaid, that such award was obtained by fraud, corrup
tion or other undue means, it shall be competent for such justice to set aside such
award and his judgment thereon rendered, and thereupon proceed to such final
trial and judgment, as if such award had never been made.
SEC. 993 (993). But no appeal shall be allowed to the district court from a
judgment of a justice of the peace rendered on an award, unless the party praying
such appeal shall file with such justice an affidavit, therein stating that he or she
does verily believe that such award was obtained by fraud, corruption or other
undue means.
SEC. 994 (994). And if on appeal from the judgment of a justice rendered on
any such award, the district court shall be satisfied that the award was obtained
by fraud, corruption or other undue means, such court shall set aside the award,
and proceed to hear and determine the cause on the merits, as in other cases of
appeal.
SEC. 995 (995). But if the court shall be of opinion that the award was not ob
tained by fraud, corruption or other undue means, they shall render judgment
thereon for the costs of suit and award execution as in other cases.
SEC. 996 (996). When a constable or sheriff shall levy on or attach property,
claimed by any person or persons other than the party against whom the execu
tion or attachment issued, the claimant or claimants shall give three days' notice,
in writing, to the plaintiff or his agent, or if not found within the county, then such
notice shall be served by leaving a copy thereof at his usual place of abode in
such county, of the time and place of the trial of the right to such property, which
trial shall be had before some justice of the county, at least one day prior to the
time appointed for the sale of such property.
SEC. 997 (997). If, on the trial, the justice shall be satisfied from the proof that
the property, or any part thereof, belongs to the claimant or claimants *(or in
case when a jury is demanded, the jury so find), such justice shall render judg
ment against the party in whose favor such execution or attachment issued for the
costs and issue execution therefor, and shall, moreover, give a written order to
the officer who levied on, or who may be charged with the duty of selling such
property, directing him to restore the same, or so much thereof as may have been
found to belong to such claimant or claimants.
SEC. 998 (998). But if the claimant or claimants fail to establish his or their
right to such property or any part thereof, the justice shall render judgment
against such claimant or claimants for the costs that have accrued on account of
such trial, and issue execution therefor ; and the officer shall not be liable to the
claimant or claimants for the property so taken.
SEC. 999 (999). Judgment that the action be dismissed without prejudice to a
new action, may be entered with costs in the following cases : First—When the
plaintiff voluntarily dismisses the action before it is finally submitted. Second-—
When he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons, or upon adjourn
ment, or within one hour thereafter.
SEC. 1000 (1000). If the plaintiff fail to appear at the return day of the sum
mons, and his bill of particulars be not filed, and there be no evidence before the
justice, the action must be dismissed. If the defendant fail to appear at the re
turn day of the summons, or if either party fail to attend at the time to which a
trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary bill of particulars, or fail
in the proof on his part, the cause may proceed at the request of the adverse party,
and judgment must be given in conformity with the bill of particulars and
proofs.

SEC. 1001 (1001). When judgment shall have been rendered against a defendant
in his absence, the same may be set aside upon the following conditions: First—
That his motion be made within ten days after such judgment was entered.
Second—That he pay or confess judgment for the costs awarded against him.
Third—That he notify in writing the opposite party, his agent or attorney, or
cause it to be done, of the opening of such judgment and of the time and place of
trial, at least five days before the time, if the party reside in the county, and if he
be not a resident of the county, by leaving a written notice thereof at the office of
the justice ten days before the trial.

SEC. 1002 (1002). Upon a verdict, the justice must immediately render judgment
accordingly. When the trial is by the justice, judgment must be entered im
mediately after the close of the trial, if the defendant has been arrested or his
property attached ; in other cases it must be entered either at the close of the trial,
or if the justice then desire further time to consider, on or by the fourth day
thereafter, both days inclusive."
SEC. 1003 (1003). When the amount due to either party exceeds the sum for
which the justice is authorized to enter judgment, such party may remit the excess,
and judgment may be entered for the residue. A defendant need not remit such
excess, and may withhold setting the same off, and a recovery for the amount set
off and allowed, or any part thereof, shall not be a bar to his subsequent action
for the amount withheld.
SEC. 1004 (1004). If the defendant, any time before trial, offer, in writing, to
allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum, the plaintiff may im
mediately have judgment therefor, with the costs then accrued. But if he do not
accept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover in the action a sum equal to
the offer, he can not recover costs accrued after the offer; but costs must be ad
judged against him. But the offer and failure to accept it can not be given m evi
dence, to affect the recovery, otherwise than as to costs as above provided.

SEC. 1005 (1005). Where judgment is rendered in a case where the defendant is
subject to arrest and imprisonment, it must be so stated in the judgment, and
entered in the justice's docket.
SEC. 1006 (1006). In all cases not otherwise specially provided for by law, either
party may appeal from the final judgment of any justice of the peace, to the dis
trict court of the county where the judgment was rendered.
SEC. 1007 (1007). The party appealing shall, within ten days from the rendition
of judgment, enter into an undertaking to the adverse party, with at least one
good and sufficient surety to be approved by such justice, in a sum not less than
fifty dollars in any case, nor less than double the amount of judgment and costs,
conditioned : First—That the appellant will prosecute his appeal to effect and
without unnecessary delay. Second—That if judgment be adjudged against him
on the appeal, he will satisfy such judgment and costs. Such undertaking need
not be signed by the appellant.
SEC. 1008 (1008). The said justice shall make out a certified transcript of his
proceedings, including the undertaking taken for such appeal, and shall, on de
mand, deliver the same to the appellant or his agent, who shall deliver the same
to the clerk of the court to which such appeal may be taken, within thirty days
next following the rendition of such judgment; and such justice shall also deliver
or transmit the bill or bills of particulars, the depositions and all other original
papers, if any used on the trial before him, to such clerk on or before the second
day of such term ; and all other proceedings before the justice of the peace in that
case shall cease and be stayed from the time of entering into such undertaking.
SEC. 1009 (1009). The clerk, on receiving such transcript and other papers as
aforesaid, shall file the same and docket the appeal.

SEC. 1010 (1010). The plaintiff in the court below shall be the plaintiff in the dis
trict court ; and the parties shall proceed, in all respects, in the same manner as
though the action had been originally instituted in the said court.
SEC. 1953 (1953). That in all cases of appeal from the county court or a justice of the
peace, the plaintiff shall, within twenty days from and after the filing of his tran
script in the district court as required by law, file his petition as required in civil
cases in the court to which such appeal is taken ; and the answer shall be filed and
issue joined as in cases commenced in such appellate court.
SEC. ion (ion). If the appellant shall fail to deliver the transcript and other
papers, if any, to the cleric, and have his appeal docketed as aforesaid within thirty
days next following trie rendition of said judgment, the appellee may, at the first
term of the district court after the expiration of thirty days, file a transcript of the
proceedings of such justice, and the said cause shall, on motion of said appellee,
be docketed ; and the court is authorized and required, on his application, either to
enter up a judgment in his favor similar to that entered by the justice of the peace,
and for all the costs that have accrued in the court, and award execution thereon,
or such court may, with the consent of such appellee, dismiss the appeal, at the
cost of the appellant, and remand the cause to the justice of the peace, to be there
after proceeded in as if no appeal had been taken ; and if the plaintiff in the action
before the justice shall appeal from any judgment rendered against such plaintiff,
and after having filed his transcript and caused such appeal to be docketed accord
ing to the provisions of this chapter, shall fail to file his petition within twenty
days thereafter, unless the court, on good cause shown, shall otherwise order, or
otherwise neglect to prosecute the same to final judgment, the said plaintiff shall
become nonsuited, and it shall be the duty of said court to render judgment against
such appellant for the amount of the judgment rendered against him by the justice
together with interest accrued thereon, and for costs of suit, and to award exe
cution therefor, as in other cases.
SEC. 1012 (1012). If both parties fail to enter such appeal within the time limited
as aforesaid, the justice, on receiving a certificate from the clerk of the court,
stating that the appeal was not entered, or being entered, was dismissed as afore
said, shall thereupon issue execution upon the judgment, in the same manner as
if such appeal had never been taken.
SEC. 1013 (1013). If any person appealing from a judgment rendered in his
favor, shall not recover a greater sum than the amount for which judgment was
rendered, besides costs and the interest accruing thereon, every such appellant
shall pay the costs of such appeal.
SEC. 1014 (1014). When any appeal shall be dismissed, or when judgment shall
be entered in the district court against the appellant, the surety in the undertak
ing shall be liable to the appellee for the whole amount of the debt, costs and
damages, recovered against the appellant.
SEC. 1015 (1015). When an appeal taken to the district court shall there be
quashed, by reason of irregularity in taking or consummating the same, the cause
for quashing shall be stated in the order of the court, and a transcript of such
order shall be lodged with such justice, who shall thereupon proceed to issue ex
ecution in the same manner as if no appeal had been taken.
SEC. 1016 (1016). In proceeding on appeal when the surety in the undertaking
shall be insufficient or such undertaking may be insufficient in form or amount,
it shall be lawful for the court, on motion, to order a change or renewal of such
undertaking, and direct the same to be certified to the justice from whose judg
ment the appeal was taken, or that it be recorded in said court.

SEC. 1017 (1017). Appeals in the following cases shall not be allowed: First—
On judgments rendered on confession. Second—In jury trials, where neither
party claims in his bill of particulars a sum exceeding twenty dollars. Third—
In trials of the right of property, under the statutes, either levied upon by execu
tion or attached. 
SEC. 1018 (1018). When the term of office of a justice shall expire between the
date of the judgment and the time limited for appeal, such justice may take the
undertaking for appeal at any time before he has delivered the docket to his suc
cessor, and give the appealing party a transcript. After the delivery of the docket
the undertaking shall be given to his successor, and it shall be his duty to give
the transcript, and do and perform all things required of his predecessor.
SEC. 1019 (1019). Any justice, within his proper county, shall have power to
inquire, in the manner hereinafter directed, as well against those who make un
lawful and forcible entry into lands and tenements, and detain the same, as
against those who, having a lawful and peaceable entry into lands or tenements,
unlawfully and by force hold the same ; and if it be found, upon such inquiry,
that an unlawful and forcible entry has been made, and that the same lands or
tenements are held by force, or that the same, after a lawful entry, are held
unlawfully, then said justice shall cause the party complaining to have restitu
tion thereof.
SEC. 1020 (1020).. Proceedings under this article may be had in all cases against
tenants holding over thjsir terms ; in sales of real estate on executions, orders, or
other judicial process, when the judgment debtor was in possession at the time
of the rendition of judgment or decree, by virtue of which such sale was made ; in
sales by executors, administrators, or guardians, and on partition, where any of
the parties to the petition were in possession at the commencement of the suit,
after such sales so made on execution or otherwise, shall have been examined by
the proper court, and the same by such court adjudged legal ; and in cases where
the defendant is a settler or occupier of lands or tenements, without color of title,
and to which the complainant has the right of possession. This section shall not
be construed as limiting the provisions of section one thousand one hundred and!
nineteen [1962].
SEC. 1021 (1021). A tenant shall be deemed to be holding over his term when
ever he has failed, neglected, or refused to pay the rent or any part thereof, when
the same was due, and * judgments, either before the justice or in the district court,
under this chapter, shall not be a bar to any after action brought by either
party.
SEC. 1022 (1022). It shall be the duty of the party desiring to commence an ac
tion under this chapter, to notify the adverse party to leave the premises for the
possession of which the action is about to be brought, which notice shall be
served at least three days before commencing the action, by leaving a written
copy with the defendant, or at his usual place of abode, if he can not be found.
SEC. 1023 (1023). The summons shall not issue until the plaintiff shall have filed
his complaint in writing with the justice, which shall particularly describe the
premises so entered upon or detained, and shall set forth either an unlawful and
forcible entry and detention, or an unlawful and forcible detention after a peace
able or lawful entry of the described premises. The complaint shall be copied
into and made a part of the record.
SEC. 1024 (1024). The summons shall be issued and directed, shall state the cause
of the complaint, and the time and place of trial, and shall be served and re
turned as in other cases. Such service shall be three days before the day of trial
appointed by the justice.
SEC. 1025 (1025). If the defendant does not appear in accordance with the requi
sitions of the summons, and it shall have been properly served, the justice shall
try the cause as though he was present.
SEC. 1026 (1026). No continuance shall be granted for a longer period than eight
days, unless the defendant applying therefor shall give an undertaking to the ad
verse party, with good and sufficient surety to be approved by the justice, condi
tioned for the payment of the rent that may accrue, if judgment be rendered
against the defendant.
SEC. 1027 (1027). If the suit be not continued, place of trial changed, or neither
party demand a jury, upon the return day of the summons, the justice shall try
the cause ; and if, after hearing the evidence, he shall conclude that the complaint
is not true, he shall enter judgment against the plaintiff for costs ; if he find the
complaint true, he shall render a general judgment against the defendant, and in
favor of the plaintiff, for restitution of the premises and costs of suit; if he
find the complaint true in part, he shall render a judgment for the restitution of
such part only, and the costs shall be taxed as the justice shall deem just and
equitable.
SEC. 1028 (1028). If a jury be demanded by either party, the proceedings, until
the empaneling thereof, shall be in all respects as in other cases. The jury shall
be sworn or affirmed, to well and truly try and determine whether the complaint
of (naming the plaintiff), about to be laid before them is true according to the
evidence. If the jury shall find the complaint true, they shall render a general
verdict of guilty against the defendant ; if not true, then a general verdict of not
guilty ; if true in part, then a verdict setting forth the facts they find true.
SEC. 1029 (1029). The justice shall enter the verdict upon his docket, and shall
render such judgment in the action as if the facts authorizing the finding of such
verdict had been found to be true by himself.
SEC. 1030 (1030). Exceptions to the opinion of the justice, in cases under this chapter, upon questions of law and evidence, may be taken by either party,
whether tried by a jury or otherwise, * or either may appeal from the judgment
rendered by such justice by giving bond, with two responsible sureties to be ap
proved by the justice, conditioned : If the plaintiff appeals, to satisfy the final
judgment and costs; if the defendant appeals, to satisfy the final judgment and
costs, and pay a reasonable rent for the premises during the time he wrongfully
withholds the same.

SEC. 1031 (1031). Where a judgment of restitution shall be entered by a justice,
he shall, at the request of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, issue a writ of /exe
cution therein, which shall be in the following form, as near as practicable /The
State of Nebraska, County, ss. To any Constable or Sheriff of Ccninty :
Whereas, In a certain action for the forcible entry and detention (or the forcible
detention, as the case may be) of the following described premises, tojwitf:
lately tried before me, wherein was plaintiff, and was defendant, judg
ment was rendered on the day of , A. D. , that the plaintiff have
restitution of said premises ; and also that he recover costs in the sum of .
You therefore are hereby commanded to cause the defendant to be forthwith re
moved from said premises; and the said plaintiff to have restitution of the same ;
also that you levy of the goods and chattels of the said defendant, and make the
costs aforesaid, and all accruing costs ; and of this writ make legal service and due
return. Witness my hand this day of , A. D. . , Justice of
the Peace.
SEC. 1032 (1032). The officer shall, within ten days after receiving the writ, ex
ecute the same by restoring the plaintiff to the possession of the premises, and
shall levy and collect the costs, and make return as upon other executions. If
the officer shall receive a notice from the justice that the proceedings have been
stayed by an allowance of a writ of error, he shall immediately delay all further
proceedings upon the execution ; and if the premises have been restored to the
plaintiff he shall immediately place the defendant in the possession thereof, and
return the writ, with his proceedings and costs taxed thereon.
SEC. 1976 (1976). Any party against whom judgment has been entered by a county judge
or justice of the peace in an action of forcible entry and detention, or forcible de
tention only, of real property, may appeal therefrom to the district court.
SEC. 1977 (1977). The party appealing shall within ten days from the rendition of such
judgment give an appeal bond with two or more sureties to be approved by the
judge or justice conditioned, in case of appeal by the plaintiff, that he will
satisfy the final judgment, and costs; and in case of appeal by the defendant,
that he will satisfy the final judgment, and costs, and will pay a reasonable rent
for the premises during the time he shall unlawfully withhold the same.
SEC. 1033 (1033). The plaintiff may recover possession of specific personal prop
erty of less value than two hundred dollars, before a justice of the peace as
herein provided.
SEC. 1034 (1034). An action for this purpose shall not be brought until there is
filed in the office of the justice, an affidavit of the pjaintiff, his agent or attorney,
showing : First—A description of the property claimed. Second—That the plain
tiff is the owner thereof, or has a special ownership therein, stating the facts in
relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the immediate possession of the prop
erty. Third—That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant. Fourth
—That it was not taken in execution on any order or judgment against said
plaintiff, or for the payment of any tax, fine or amercement assessed against him,
or by virtue of an order of delivery issued under this chapter, or any other mesne
or final process issued against said plaintiff.
SEC. 1035 (1035). Upon such affidavit being made, and filed with the justice, he
shall issue a summons as in other cases, but in addition commanding the officer
immediately to seize and take into his custody, wherever they may be found in the
county, the goods and chattels mentioned in the affidavit, and deliver the same to
the plaintiff.
SEC. 1036 (1036). The constable or sheriff shall execute the writ by taking the
property therein mentioned; he shall also deliver a copy of the summons to the
person charged with the unlawful detention of property, or leave such copy at his
usual place of residence ; and shall make return of the time and manner of service,
the appraisement of the property, and any undertaking taken by him.
SEC. 1037 (1037). The officer shall not deliver to the plaintiff, his agent or at
torney, the property so taken, until there has been executed by one or more sufficient
sureties of the plaintiff a written undertaking to the defendant, in at least double
the value of the property taken, but in no case less than fifty dollars, to the effect
that the plaintiff shall duly prosecute the action and pay all costs and damages
which may be awarded against him.
SEC. 1038 (1038). For the purpose of fixing the amount of the undertaking, the
value of the property taken shall be ascertained by the oath of two responsible
persons, whom the officer shall swear truly to assess the value thereof.
SEC. 1039 (1039). Whenever the appraised value of the property so taken shall
exceed two hundred ($200) dollars the justice shall certify the proceedings upon
said writ to the district court of his county, and thereupon shall file the original
papers, together with a certified transcript of his docket entries, in the clerk's
office of said court ; the case there to be held for trial at the first term of said
court on the original papers without further pleadings, except by the leave of the
court granted on sufficient showing. * In case where the appraised value of the
property so taken is less than two hundred ($200) dollars and a trial is begun
before the justice and in case the jury agree upon a verdict finding the value of
the property so taken to be more than two hundred ($200) dollars, or in case a
jury is waived and the case tried to the justice and he finds that the value of the
property so taken exceeds two hundred ($200) dollars, then in either case no
judgment shall be entered and all subsequent proceedings shall cease before the
justice, and he shall certify all the proceedings to the district court in the same
manner as provided for in this section where the appraised value of the property
taken exceeds the sum of two hundred ($200) dollars, and the same proceedings
shall be had in the district court as in a case certified up by the justice when the
appraised value of the property taken exceeds two hundred ($200) dollars.

SEC. 1040 (1040). If the undertaking required by section one thousand and
thirty-seven, be not given within twenty-four hours from the taking of the prop
erty under said order, the officer shall return the property to the defendant. And
if the officer deliver any property so taken to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney,
or keep the same from the defendant, without taking such security within the
time aforesaid, or if he take insufficient security, he shall be liable to the defendant
in damages.

SEC. 1041 (1041). If the property has been delivered to the plaintiff, and judg
ment be rendered against him, or if he otherwise fail to prosecute his action to
final judgment, the justice shall, on application of the defendant, or his attorney,
impanel a jury to inquire into the right of property and right of possession of the
defendant to the property taken. If the jury shall be satisfied that the said prop
erty was the property of the defendant at the commencement of the action, or if
they shall find that the defendant was entitled only to the possession of the same,
at such time, then in either case they shall assess such damages for the defendant
as are right and proper, for which, with costs of suit, the court shall render judg
ment for the defendant. And in all cases where the property has been delivered
to the plaintiff, unless the jury shall find for the defendant, they shall also find
whether the defendant had the right of property, or the right of possession only,
at the commencement of the suit; and if they find either in his favor, they shall
assess such damages as they think right and proper for the defendant, for which,
with costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for the defendant.
SEC. 1042 (1042). In all cases, when the property has been delivered to the
plaintiff, where the jury shall find for the plaintiff, on trial, or on inquiry of dam
ages, they shall assess adequate damages to the plaintiff for the illegal detention
of the property, for which, with costs of suit, the justice shall render judgment
against the defendant.
SEC. 1043 (1043). When the property claimed has not been taken, or has been
returned to the defendant, for want of the undertaking required by section one
thousand and thirty-nine, the action may proceed as one for damages only, and
the plaintiff shall be entitled to such damages as are right and proper ; but if the
property be returned for want of the undertaking required by said section, the
plaintiff shall pay all costs made by taking the same.
SEC. 1044 (1044). The officer, in executing the writ, may break open any build
ing or enclosure in which the property claimed, or any part thereof, is concealed ;
but not until he has been refused an entrance into said building or enclosure, and
the delivery of the property after having demanded the same.
SEC. 1045 (1045). No suit shall be instituted on the undertaking given under sec
tion one thousand and thirty-seven, before an execution, issued on a judgment in
favor of the defendant in the action, shall have been returned that sufficient prop
erty whereon to levy and make the amount of such judgment can not be found in
the county.
SEC. 1046 (1046). If any justice shall issue a writ to replevin property, as is pro
vided by this chapter, without the affidavit being made and filed in his office as
is provided in section one thousand and thirty-four, the same shall be set aside at
his costs, and he shall be liable in damages to the party injured.
SEC. 1047 (1047). Execution for the enforcement of a judgment before a justice
of the peace (except where it has been taken to the district court on error or ap
peal, or docketed therein, or during the time it may be stayed, as provided by this title), may issue by the justice before whom the judgment was rendered, or by his
successor in office on the application of the party entitled thereto, at any time
within five years of entry of the judgment, or the date of the last execution is
sued thereon.
SEC. 1048 (1048). It shall be the duty of the justice, if the case be not appealed,
taken upon error, docketed in the district court, or bail has not been given for the
stay of execution, at the expiration of ten days from the entry of the judgment,
to issue execution, without a demand, and proceed to collect the judgment, unless
otherwise directed by the judgment creditor.
SEC. 1049 (1049). Any person against whom judgment may be rendered under
the provisions of this title, except as hereinafter excepted, may have stay of ex
ecution for the several periods hereinafter mentioned, by entering into an under
taking with the adverse party, within ten days after the rendition of such judg
ment, with good and sufficient surety, resident of the county, as the justice shall
approve, conditioned for the payment of the amount of such judgment, interest,
and costs, and costs that may accrue; which undertaking shall be entered on the
docket of the justice, and be signed by the surety.
SEC. 1050 (1050). The stay of execution hereby authorized shall be graduated
as follows, namely: First—On any judgment for $10 and under, the stay shall be
for sixty days. Second—On any judgment exceeding $10, and under $50, the
stay shall be for ninety days. Third—On any judgment exceeding $50 and under
$100, the stay shall be for six months. Fourth—On any judgment exceeding
$100 and not exceeding $200, the stay shall be for nine months. Fifth—Where
judgment rendered against a surety and he takes a stay thereon, and he obtains a
judgment against the principal, stay of execution must be allowed on the judg
ment against the principal only so long that the stay will expire one month before
. that allowed to the surety on the judgment against him.
SEC. 1051 (1051). No stay of execution on judgments rendered in the following
cases shall be allowed: First—On judgments rendered against justices of the
peace, for refusing to pay over money by them collected or received in their of
ficial capacity. Second—On any judgment rendered against an officer for failing
to make return, making a false return, or refusing to pay over money collected in
his official capacity. Third—On judgments against bail for the stay of execu
tion. Fourth—Where judgment is rendered in favor of bail, who have been
compelled by judgment to pay over money on account of their principal. Fifth—
On judgments obtained by constables or sheriffs, on undertakings executed to
them for the delivery of property.
SEC. 1052 (1052). If the execution issued before the undertaking for stay, or
that required in case of appeal, be given, and such undertaking be given after
ward and within the time allowed, the justice shall recall the execution.
SEC. 1053 (1053). Where any person who has become bail for stay of execution
shall remove out of the county before the expiration of such stay, the justice shall,
on demand, issue execution against the goods and chattels of the defendant, or
other party against whom the original judgment was rendered, to be proceeded
with as in other cases.
SEC. 1054 (1054). When any surety for the stay of execution shall become ap
prehensive, that, by delaying the execution until the expiration of the full time of
such stay, he or she may be compelled to pay the judgment, it shall be lawful for
such surety to make and file affidavit of that fact before the justice on whose
docket the judgment is entered; whereupon such justice shall issue execution
against the judgment debtor, which shall be proceeded in as in other cases;
Provided, Such bail shall not thereby be discharged from liability, but may be
proceeded against after the expiration of the term of stay, in the same manner as if
execution had not issued as aforesaid.
SEC. 1055 (1055). If the judgment debtor shall, within ten days after levying
such execution, enter into a further undertaking for the stay of execution, during
so much of the first stay as remains then unexpired, and shall pay costs of the ex
ecution issued against him, as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the justice to take
such further undertaking, and recall the execution ; and the person who last be
came surety shall first be proceeded against, until it shall appear by the return of
the officer that he or she has no goods whereon to levy, before proceedings shall
be instituted on the undertaking first given.
SEC. 1056 (1056). When any judgment shall be obtained against any person
who shall have entered himself bail on the docket of any justice of the peace,
agreeably to the provisions of this title, the original judgment shall remain good
and valid in law, for the use of such bail, who, at any time thereafter may sue out
execution on such judgment, against the goods and chattels of the defendant, for
the use of such bail, which shall be so endorsed by the justice, and such bail shall
also be entitled to a transcript of such judgment, for his own use, which shall have
the same force and effect as transcripts in other cases.

SEC. 1057 (1057). At any time before the stay shall expire, if the justice taking
the surety, or his successor in office, shall become satisfied that the surety is insuf
ficient, it shall be his duty to cause written notice thereof to be given to the de
fendant, or if he be absent, that the same be left at his residence, requiring him to
give additional surety, on or by the third day after the giving of such notice ; such
facts shall be entered on the docket, and he shall immediately issue execution
against the defendant for the collection of the judgment. If within ten days
after the issuing of such execution, surety to the satisfaction of the justice be
given, the execution shall be recalled and stayed until the expiration of the orig
inal stay.
SEC. 1058 (1058). The execution must be directed to a constable or sheriff of
the county, and subscribed by the justice by whom the judgment was rendered, or
by his successor in office, and must bear date the day of its delivery to the officer to
be executed. It must intelligibly refer to the judgment, by stating the names of
the parties, and the name of the justice before whom, and of the county where
and the time when, it was rendered, the amount of the judgment, and, if less than
the whole is due, the true amount due thereon. It must require the officer sub
stantially as follows : First—If it be a case where the defendant can not be ar
rested, it must direct the officer to collect the amount of the judgment out of the
personal property of the debtor, and pay the same to the party entitled thereto.
Second—If it be a case where any of the judgment debtors are certified on the
docket as surety, it shall command that the money be made of the personal prop
erty of the principal debtor, and for want thereof, of the personal property of the
surety. In such cases the personal property of the principal, subject to execution
within the jurisdiction, shall be exhausted before any property of the bail shall be
taken in execution. Third—If it be a case where the defendant may be arrested,
in addition to the foregoing it must direct the officer, if sufficient property of the
defendant subject to the execution can not be found to satisfy the judgment, that
he arrest the debtor and commit him to the jail of the county until he pay the
judgment, or be discharged according to law, unless the execution be accompanied
by an order of arrest, as provided in sections nine hundred and twenty-three and
nine hundred and twenty-four. Fourth—It must in all cases direct the officer
to make return of the execution and the certificate thereon, showing the manner
in which he has executed the same, in thirty days from the time of his receipt
thereof.

SEC. 1059 (1059). Upon an execution on a judgment against joint debtors, upon
one or more of whom the summons was not served, the execution must con
tain a direction to collect the amount out of the joint property of all the de
fendants, or the separate property of the persons upon whom the summons was
served, to be specified by name. If such judgment be also such that the defend
ants are subject to arrest thereon, the justice must further specify the names
of those defendants served with the summons, who may be arrested for want of
property.
SEC. 1060 (1060). The officer may, at his peril, omit to arrest a debtor, or after
arrest suffer him to go at large before the return day, subject only for his liability
for an escape, or for omitting to arrest, if he fail to have either the money or the
person of the debtor in custody at the expiration of thirty days.
SEC. 1061 (1061). It shall be lawful for the sheriff or jailer receiving any per
son imprisoned on execution issued in any civil proceeding, at any time when
there is no money in his hands to pay for the sustenance of such prisoner, to dis
charge him from prison. The jailer may, however, detain such prisoner, the ad
verse party being liable for such sustenance.
SEC. 1062 (1062). The debtor committed as herein provided may be held in
prison ten days, and, if he be a person without a family for which he provides,
one day in addition for every dollar over ten due on the execution ; or if he has a
family for which he provides, one day in addition for every two dollars over
twenty due on the execution.
SEC. 1063 (1063). The affidavit of an imprisoned debtor, that he has a family
for which he provides, specifying by name one or more persons, members of such
family, and the place of their residence, is sufficient evidence thereof to authorize
his discharge by the jailer
SEC. 1064 (1064). The officer is liable to the party in whose favor an execution
issued to him for the amount thereof, in the following cases: First—Where he
suffers thirty days to elapse without making a true return thereof to the justice,
and paying to him, or to the party entitled, the money collected thereon by him.
Second—Where he wilfully and carelessly omits to levy on property within thirty
days, or if the defendant be liable to be imprisoned, then to arrest and commit
him to the jail of the county within thirty days.

SEC. 1065 (1065). When an execution shall be returned unsatisfied for the want
of goods and chattels, the justice shall, unless otherwise directed by the party for
whom the execution issued, commence an action on the undertaking for the stay
of execution, and so soon as judgment is obtained thereon, shall issue execution,
and if such execution be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, for want of
goods and chattels of the bail whereon to levy, then the plaintiff may demand and
have execution on the original judgment for the amount remaining due.
SEC. 1066 (1066). Where bail is given for the stay of execution, and the de
fendant against whom the judgment was rendered shall die before the same is
satisfied, the creditor may proceed against the surety in the undertaking in like
manner as if execution had been issued against the defendant, and returned not
satisfied for want of goods and chattels whereon to levy.
SEC. 1067 (1067). All property taken in execution under the provisions of this title, shall be advertised for sale at four of the most public places within the pre
cinct where such property was seized, at least ten days previous to the time ap
pointed for such sale, which shall be held within the hours of ten o'clock a.m.
and four o'clock p.m., at the house, or on the premises, where such property was
taken, or at one of the most public places within the precinct.
SEC. 1068 (1068). It shall not be lawful for any justice of the peace who issued
the execution, nor for the officer holding the execution, to purchase, either di
rectly or indirectly, any property sold on such execution. And any justice or of
ficer who shall offend against the provisions of this section, shall forfeit and pay,
for every such offense, any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars nor less than
five dollars, to be recovered by civil action in the name of the state of Nebraska,
before any court having jurisdiction thereof, for the use of the county where
such offense was committed ; and shall, moreover, be liable to the action of the
party injured thereby.
SEC. 1069 (1069). When any cattle or other live stock shall be taken in execu
tion, it shall be the duty of the justice who issued the execution, or other justice
charged with the duty of collecting the judgment whereon such execution issued,
to allow the officer, for keeping the same, a reasonable compensation, to be taxed
and collected as other costs in the suit.
SEC. 1070 (1070). When a constable or sheriff shall levy on and sell any goods
and chattels, he shall make out and annex to his return to the execution in virtue
of which such sale was made, a true inventory of all such property, and of each article thereof, and the price at which the same was sold.
SEC. 1071 (1071). Where a constable or sheriff shall have levied on any goods and
chattels which remain unsold for want of bidders or other just cause, it shall be
his duty to return, with the execution, a schedule of all such goods and chattels.
And the justice shall, unless otherwise directed by the party for whom such ex
ecution issued, or his agent, immediately thereafter issue an order, thereby com
manding any officer to whom the same may be directed or delivered, to expose
such property for sale ; which sale, and the proceedings thereon, shall be the same
as if such property had been sold on the original execution.
SEC. 1072 (1072). Any officer having levied on goods and chattels, of which he
permits the party against whom the execution issued to retain possession, is
hereby authorized to take such security for his own indemnity as he may require,
that such property shall be delivered at the time and place appointed for the sale
thereof.
SEC. 1073 (1073). In all cases where any lands may have been let, reserving rent
in kind, and when the crops or emblements growing or grown thereon shall be
levied on or attached, by virtue of an execution, attachment or other process
against the landlord or tenant, the interest of such landlord or tenant, against
whom such process did not issue, shall not be affected thereby.
SEC. 1074 (1074). In cases where the constable or sheriff shall make it appear
to the satisfaction of the justice that he has been deprived of an opportunity of
levying an execution within the time prescribed by this chapter, or otherwise pre
vented from making the whole of the money therein required to be made, and shall
make return to the justice who issued the same to that effect, such justice is hereby
authorized and required to issue further process of execution, for the amount of
balance remaining unsatisfied, which shall be served and returned, in all respects,
as other executions are under this chapter.
SEC. 1075 (1075). All constables and sheriffs shall be ministerial officers in jus
tices' courts, in their respective counties, in civil and criminal cases, and civil and
criminal process may be executed by them throughout the county.
SEC. 1076 (1076). It shall be the duty of every constable to serve and execute all
warrants, writs, precepts, executions and other process to him directed and deliv
ered, and in all respects whatever to do and perform all things pertaining to the
office of constable. And sheriffs shall have all the powers and be subject to all
the liabilities of constables in the service and return of all processes issued by
justices of the peace in their respective counties.
SEC. 1077 (1077). In discharging their duties, constables may call to their aid the
power of the county, or such assistance as may be necessary. It shall be the
duty of every constable or sheriff to make due return of all process to him di
rected and delivered, at the proper office and on the proper return day thereof ; or
if the judgment be docketed in the district court, appealed or stayed, upon which
he has an execution, on notice thereof to return the execution, stating thereon
such facts.
SEC. 1078 (1078). It shall be the duty of every constable or sheriff, on the re
ceipt of any writ or other process (subpoenas excepted), to note thereon the time
of receiving the same ; he shall also state in his return on the same, the time and
manner of executing it.
SEC. 1079 (1079). No officer shall make a return on any process of "not found,"
as to any defendant, unless he shall have been once at least, to the usual place of
residence of the defendant, if such defendant have any in the county.
SEC. 1080 (1080). It shall be the duty of every constable and sheriff to apprehend,
on view or warrant, and bring to justice, all felons and disturbers and violators
of the criminal laws of this state, to suppress all riots, affrays and unlawful as
semblies, which may come to his knowledge, and, generally, to keep the peace in
his proper county.
SEC. 1081 (1081). In serving all process, either civil or criminal, and in doing his
duties generally, when not otherwise restricted by law, the authority of a con
stable shall extend throughout the whole county in which he may be appointed ;
and in executing and serving process issued by a justice of the peace, he shall
have and exercise the same authority and powers over goods and chattels and the
persons of parties as is granted by law to a sheriff, under like process issued from
courts of record.
SEC. 1082 (1082). When it shall become the duty of the officer to take the body
of any person to the jail of the county, he shall deliver to the sheriff or jailer a
certified copy of the execution, commitment or other process, whereby he holds
such person in custody, and return the original to the justice who issued the same;
which copy shall be sufficient authority to the sheriff or jailer to keep the prisoner
in jail until discharged by due course of law.
SEC. 1083 (1083). Constables and sheriffs shall pay over to the party entitled
thereto, all money received by them in their official capacity, if demand be made
by such party, his agent or attorney, at any time before he returns the writ upon
hich he has received it; if not paid over by that time, he shall pay the same to
the justice when he returns the writ.
SEC. 1084 (1084). Constables and sheriffs shall be liable to twenty per cent pen
alty upon the amount of damages for which judgment may be entered against
them, for failing to make return, making false return, or failing to pay over
money by them collected or received in their official capacity, and such judgment
must include, in addition to the damages and costs, the penalty herein provided.
SEC. 1085 (1085). The provisions of this code, which are in their nature appli
cable, and in respect to which no special provision is made by statute, shall apply
to proceedings before justices of the peace.
SEC. 1086 (1086). Every justice must keep a book, denominated a docket, in
which must be entered by him : First—The title of every action in which the writ
is served, or where the parties voluntarily appear. Second—The date of the writ,
the time of its return, and if an order to arrest the defendant or attach property
was made, such fact must be stated, together with the affidavit upon which such
order was made. Third—The filing of the bill of particulars of either party, and
nature thereof, and when not of too great length, the same shall be entered at
length on the docket. Fourth—Which of the parties, if either of them, appear at
the trial. Fifth—Every adjournment, stating on whose application, whether on
oath or consent, and to what time. Sixth—When trial by jury is demanded, the
demand must be stated, and by whom made, the names of the jurors selected, and
the time appointed for the trial. Seventh—The names of the jurors who appear
and of those sworn, the names of all witnesses sworn and at whose request.
Eighth—The exceptions to the ruling of the justice, on questions of law, taken by
either party. Ninth—The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the jury dis
agree and are discharged, that fact must be stated. Tenth—The judgment of the
justice, specifying the items of costs included, and the time when rendered.
Eleventh—The issuing of execution and orders to sell, when issued and to whom,
the renewals thereof, if any, and when made, the return and when made, and a
statement of any money paid to the justice, and by whom. Twelfth—The giving
of a transcript to be filed in the clerk's office, and when given. Thirteenth—-If ap
peal be taken, the undertaking and the time of entering into the same, and by
which party taken. Fourteenth—The undertaking for stay of execution, and the
time of giving the same. Fifteenth—The satisfaction of the judgment, and the
time of satisfying the same.
SEC. 1087 (1087). The several particulars in the last section specified must be
entered under the title of the action to which they relate, and at the time when
they occurred, except that bills of exceptions, in regard to the rulings on questions
of law or evidence need not be entered until after the judgment, unless required
by the justice or one of the parties ; such entries in a justice's docket, or a tran
script thereof, certified by the justice or his successor in office, shall be evidence
to prove the facts stated therein.
SEC. 1088 (1088). A justice must keep an alphabetical index to his docket, in
which must be entered the names of the parties to each judgment, with reference
to the page of the entry ; the names of the plaintiffs must be entered in the index
in the alphabetical order of the first letter of the family names ; he shall number
the cases progressively upon his docket, and shall correspondingly number the
papers in each case; he shall keep the entire papers in each action together, and
in packages of a proper and convenient size, and in the order in which the cases
are numbered on his docket.
SEC. 1089 (1089). It is the duty of every justice, upon the expiration of his term
of office, to deposit with his successor, his official docket, as well his own as
those of his predecessor which may be in his custody, together with all files and
papers, laws and statutes pertaining to his office, there to be kept as public rec
ords and property. If there be no successor elected and qualified, or if the office
become vacant by death, removal from the county or otherwise, before his succes
sor is elected and qualified, the docket and papers in the possession of such jus
tice must be deposited with the nearest justice in the county, there to be kept until
a successor be chosen and qualified, then to be delivered over to such successor on
request.
SEC. 1090 (1090). A justice receiving by succession or on deposit, any such
docket, papers and laws, shall, if requested, give a receipt therefor to the person
from whom he receives the same.
SEC. 1091 (1091). The justice with whom the docket of another may be depos
ited, either during a vacancy or as a successor, is hereby authorized, while having
such docket legally in his possession, to issue execution on any judgment there
entered and unsatisfied, and not docketed in the district court, in the same manner
and with the same effect as the justice by whom the judgment was rendered might
have done ; to take bail in appeals or for stay of execution, to issue certified tran
scripts of judgments on such docket, and proceed in all cases in like manner as if
the same had been originally had or instituted before him.
SEC. 1092 (1092). In case of tne sickness or other disability, or necessary ab
sence of a justice, at the time appointed for trial, another justice of the same
county may, at his request, attend in his behalf, and shall thereupon become vested
with the powers, for the time being, of the justice before whom the summons was
returnable. In that case the proper entry of the proceeding before the attending
justice, subscribed by him, must be made in the docket of the justice before whom
the writ was returnable. ' If the case be adjourned, the justice before whom the
summons was returnable must resume jurisdiction.
SEC. 1093 (1093). The summons, execution and every other paper made or is
sued by a justice must be filled up without a blank to be filled by another; other
wise it is void.
SEC. 1094 (1094). A justice, at the request of a party, and on being satisfied that
it is expedient, may specially depute any discreet person of suitable age, and not
interested in the action, to serve a summons or execution with or without an or
der to arrest the defendants or to attach property. Such deputation must be in
writing on the process.
SEC. 1095 (1095). The person so deputed has the authority of a constable, in re
lation to the service, execution and return of such process, and is subject to the
same obligation, but there can be no fee for his services taxed in the bill of costs.
SEC. 1096 (1096). A justice may punish as for contempt, persons guilty of the
following acts, and no others : First—Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent be
havior toward the justice, tending to interrupt the due course of the trial, or other
judicial proceedings before him. Second—A breach of the peace, boisterous con
duct or violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or
other judicial proceeding. Third—Wilful resistance in the presence of the jus
tice, to the execution of a lawful order or process made or issued by him.
SEC. 1097 (1097). A warrant of arrest may be issued by_ such justice, on which
the person so guilty may be arrested and brought before the justice, when an op
portunity to be heard in his defense or. excuse must be given. The justice may
thereupon discharge him or may convict him for the offense and adjudge a pun
ishment by fine or imprisonment, or both ; such fine not to exceed twenty dollars,
and such imprisonment ten days.
SEC. 1098 (1098). The conviction, specifying particularly the offense and the
judgment thereon, must be entered in his docket ; a warrant of commitment to the
jail of the county, until the fine be paid, or for the term of imprisonment, may
then be issued ; such warrant must contain a transcript of the entry in the docket,
and the same must be executed by any constable or sheriff to whom it may be
given, and by the jailer of the county.
SEC. 1099 (1099). When a person intending to bring an action before a justice of
the peace is a non-resident of the county in which he intends to commence such
action, the justice may, previous to his issuing process, require such person to give
security for the costs of suit ; which may be done by depositing a sum of money,
deemed by the'juctice to be sufficient to discharge the costs that may accrue in the
action, or by giving an undertaking, with security approved by the justice, payable
to the adverse party, for the payment of all costs that may accrue in the action. If
any plaintiff or plaintiffs, after commencing an action before a justice in the county
in which he or they reside, afterwards remove out of the county, the justice may
require such plaintiff or plaintiffs to- deposit a sum of money, equal to the costs
that have accrued, and that probably will accrue, or require, in place thereof, that
such party give sufficient security for all costs that have accrued, or which may
accrue in the action, and in default to do either, shall enter a nonsuit against the
plaintiff or plaintiffs.
SEC. 1100 (1100). In all actions instituted before a justice of the peace, founded
upon any bond, bill, promissory note or other instrument of writing, for the pay
ment of a sum of money certain, of which the whole amount of money promised
therein is due, it shall be the duty of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, to file said
bond, bill, promissory note or other written evidence of indebtedness, upon which
said suit is brought, with such justice of the peace; and if upon the trial judgment
shall be entered thereon, in favor of the plaintiff, such bond, bill, promissory note
or other instrument in writing, shall be retained by the justice so rendering judg
ment, who shall endorse thereon the sum for which he shall have entered judgment
SEC. provided the same shall in nowise exceed one hundred dollars (provided the same shall in nowise exceed one hundred dollars). and shall sub
scribe his name thereto. And upon payment, or tender of the amount of such pay
ment, together with the costs accruing thereon, or securing the payment of the
same by putting in bail for the stay of execution, it shall not be lawful for the
plaintiff to institute any other suit or suits upon such bond, bill, promissory note
or other instrument of writing, for the recovery of any other sum or sums, the pay
ment of which is secured by the same bond, bill, promissory note or other written
evidence of indebtedness ; Provided, That when an appeal shall be taken from the
judgment of such justice, it shall be his' duty to transmit any bond, bill, promis
sory note or other written evidence produced before him on trial, to the clerk of
the district court, to which such cause shall have been appealed, on or before the
second day of the term of the court next after taking such appeal ; Provided, also,
That nothing herein contained shall be construed to lessen or in anywise affect the
right which any creditors now have to demand from any justice of the peace any
joint and several obligation for the purpose of prosecuting any party to said obli
gation, other than the party against whom judgment may have been rendered.
SEC. 2046 (2046). That in all civil actions before justices of the peace, in which the de
fendant has been served with summons in this state, it shall not be necessary to
prove the execution of any bond, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other writ
ten instrument, or any endorsement thereon, upon which the action is brought, or
set-off or counter-claim is based, unless the party sought to be charged as the
maker, acceptor, or endorser of such bond, promissory note, or bill of exchange, or
other written instrument, shall make and file with the justice of the peace, before
whom the suit is pending, an affidavit that such instrument was not made, given,
subscribed, accepted, or indorsed by him.

SEC. 1101 (1101). It shall not be lawful for any justice of the peace to purchase
any judgment, upon any docket in his possession; and for so doing, and for every
such offense, such justice shall forfeit and pay a sum not more than fifty dollars
nor less than ten dollars, to be recovered by an action before any court having
jurisdiction thereof, and when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the
county where such offense was committed.
SEC. 1102 (1102). The provisions of this title do not apply to proceedings in
actions or suits pending when it takes effect. They shall be conducted to final
judgment and determination in all respects as if it had not been adopted.
SEC. 1103 (1103). Justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction in all cases where
the sum in question does not exceed two hundred dollars, except in cases limited
in this title.
