Section 1. The supreme court, consisting of a chief justice and
five associate justices, shall continue to have general superintendence
of all courts of inferior jurisdiction to prevent and correct errors and
abuses, and shall have exclusive authority to issue writs of error,
49
certiorari, mandamus, prohibition, and quo loarranto, and may issue
■writs of habeas corpus, and all other writs and processes, to other
courts, to corporations, and to individuals.
Sec. 2. The court, at the law terms, shall have jurisdiction of
questions of divorce, nullity of marriage, alimony, and assignments
to the wife, or for the support of the children, of the property of the
husband ; of appeals from probate courts, and applications therefor ;
of petitions for new trials founded on a statute ; of petitions for par
tition, and for the redemption and foreclosure of mortgages ; of
proceedings for the forfeiture of any estate or franchise granted by
the state ; and of questions of law arising at a trial term, reserved
or assigned for decision.
Sec. 3. At the trial terms, they shall take cognizance of civil
actions and pleas, real, personal, and mixed, according to the course
of the common law ; of cases of bastardy ; of petitions and appeals
relating to highways, and property taken therefor or for other public
use ; of actions commenced in a police or justice court, wherein the title to real estate is brought in question ; of appeals from police
and justice courts, in cases where final judgment has been there ren
dered ; and of claims presented to the commissioners of insolvent
estates.
Sec. 4. In civil actions, the court shall try the facts in contro
versy, and assess the damages, if the parties so elect ; and judg
ment rendered on such trial shall be conclusive as if rendered upon
the verdict of a jury.
Sec. 5. The decision of the court in such case shall be in writing,
if either party so requests, stating the facts found, and the conclu
sions of law upon them, which shall be filed and recorded ; and
either party may except to any ruling or decision of the court in
matters of law in the same manner and with like effect as upon a
trial by jury.
Sec. 6. The court may from time to time establish rules and
orders of practice, consistent with the laws, for conducting and reg
ulating its business, and prescribe forms of proceedings in all cases
not provided for.
Sec. 7. They may issue writs of execution, scire facias, ^and other
proper process, upon judgments, records, and files of any court or
justice required to be kept by the clerk of said supreme court as
records of his office, and may amend the same in like manner as if
they had been originally records and files of said court.
Sec. 8. Scire facias may be issued in the supreme court, upon
judgments and other proceedings in police or justice courts, when
the amount of the judgment or other demand claimed, including
costs and interest, exceeds thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents,
upon attested copies of such judgment or other proceeding being
filed in the supreme court.
Sec. 9. Any person aggrieved by any opinion, ruling, direction, or
judgment of the court, at a trial term, may except thereto, and the
exceptions being reduced to writing during the same term, and being
conformable to the truth of the case, shall be signed by the presiding
justice, and be a part of the record in the case.
Sec. 10. Such bill of exceptions may be entered by the party ex
cepting, upon the docket of the court, at the next law term for the
county, and the questions arising thereon shall be considered and
determined, as upon a writ of error or other proper process for bring
ing the same before the whole court for decision.
Sec 11. Questions arising upon such exceptions, upon a special
verdict, an issue of law, motion for a new trial or in arrest of judgment,
or other motion or proceeding, or upon a statement of facts
agreed to and signed by the parties in any case at a trial term, may
be reserved and assigned by the presiding justice, if he think fit, to
the determination of the court at the next law term.
Sec. 12. In a case so reserved upon a statement of facts agreed
to by the parties, the plaintiff, and in other cases reserved, and upon
a bill of exceptions allowed, the party excepting or moving, shall
furnish to the court copies of the case and papers referred to, suffi
cient for the justices sitting in the case ; and each party who desires
to be heard shall furnish to each of said justices and to one of the
opposing counsel a brief of the points and authorities upon which he
relies.
Sec 13. Upon the determination of the questions arising upon
such bill of exceptions allowed or case reserved, such judgment
shall be rendered or order made at the law term as the case re
quires ; and if judgment has been rendered at the trial term, in any
case in which such bill of exceptions is allowed, the same may be
vacated as if rendered by mistake, and such further proceedings may
be had as to law and justice appertain.
Sec 14. When such bill of exceptions is allowed, the court may
stay execution upon the judgment rendered in the case, upon such
terms and conditions as they deem just.
Sec 15. If, through accident, mistake, or misfortune, the party
excepting fails to enter his bill of exceptions at the next law term,
the court, on petition filed within one year after said bill of excep-
tions is signed, may allow the same to be entered upon such terms
as they think just.
Section 1. The supreme court shall have the powers of a court
of equity in cases cognizable in such court, and may hear and deter
mine, according to the course of equity, in case of charitable uses,
trusts, fraud, accident, or mistake ; of the affairs of copartners,
joint tenants or owners, or tenants in common ; of the redemption
and foreclosure of mortgages ; of the assignment of dower ; of con
tribution ; of waste and nuisance ; of specific performance of con
tracts ; of discovery, where discovery may be had according to the
course of proceedings in equity ; and in all other cases where there
is not a plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law, and such rem
edy may be had by proceedings according to the course of equity ;
and may grant writs of injunction whenever the same is necessary
to prevent fraud or injustice.
Sec. 2. When goods or chattels are unlawfully withheld from the
owner, proceedings in equity may be had for a discovery, for a res
toration of the property, and for such other relief as the nature of
the case and justice may require.
Sec. 8. When any estate, property, interest, right, or credit, legal
or equitable, of a debtor against whom execution has been issued
and returned unsatisfied, is alleged to be so hoi den that it cannot
be reached to be taken on the execution by levy, or by suit on the
judgment ; that it has been conveyed by him in fraud of his creditors ;
or is held by others for his use ; proceedings in equity may be had
for a discovery, and for relief ; and th6 court shall make proper de
crees and orders, and issue proper process to compel a discovery, to
prevent the transfer of such estate, property, interest, right, or
credit, and to make application of so much thereof as in justice
ought to be so applied in satisfaction of the debt.
Sec. 4. The provisions of the preceding section shall not apply to
property exempt by statute from attachment, nor to trust funds,
where the trust has been created by or the fund has proceeded from
some person other than the debtor, and such application may not be
made consistently with the trust, nor to- cases where the amount due
is not greater than the sum to which the jurisdiction of justices of
the peace in civil suits is limited ; but may apply to all other cases
where equity would be promoted.
Sec. 5. When a bill is filed under the provisions of section three, L
the plaintiff may cause a certified copy thereof, and of the writ of c
subpoena issued thereon, to be filed in the office of the clerk of the J
town in which any defendant resides ; and the names of the parties, x
the time of filing, and the court in which the bill is pending shall be
entered by said clerk upon the index of attachments, as in the case
of an attachment of real estate ; and such filing and the service of
the bill upon such defendant shall constitute a lien, as against him
and others having after-acquired rights, upon the estate, property,
interest, right, or credit to which the bill relates, or which may be
discovered by the proceedings, for any decree or order relative
thereto, in favor of the plaintiff against such defendant.
Sec. 6. In the case of real estate, such lien shall be created by i
filing the certified copy in the office of the clerk of the town in which n
the real estate is situate, instead of the town in which the defendant 1
resides.
Sec. 7. Upon the application of any party to a suit in equity, an w
order may be made, when it appears to be required for his security, "
for a writ of attachment in his favor, in such form and returnable as ^
the court may direct, against the estate or property of any other
party.
Sec. 8. The officer to whom such writ is directed may attach
thereon estate or property, and shall make return thereof according
to its precept, as in case of a writ at law ; and such attachment shall
constitute a lien upon the estate or property for any such decree or
order.
Sec. 9. If such decree or order requires the performance of any
other thing than the payment of money, the court may make such
order relative to the property attached, and issue such process for
the sale or other disposition thereof, as may tend to secure or com
pel the performance of the decree.
Sec. 10. Any lien acquired by proceedings in equity may be released,
discharged, or modified by the court or any justice thereof,
in such manner and upon such terms as justice may require.
Sec. 11. Causes in equity, pending in one county, and motions
and applications therein, may, upon reasonable notice to the parties
or their attorneys, be heard and determined in any other county.
Sec. 12. The appointment of commissioners and receivers, the
reference of questions to masters, granting writs of injunction to
stay proceedings or waste, making interlocutory decrees and orders,
and other incidental proceedings, may be had and done by one jus-
tice, in term time or vacation, in any county ; but injunctions so is
sued shall continue, unless sooner dissolved, only until the end of
the next law term for the county in which the proceedings are
pending.
Sec. 13. Decrees and orders, made by one justice, or by the
court, when the clerk for the county in which the suit is pending is
not hi attendance, shall be certified and forthwith transmitted, with
the papers connected therewith, to said clerk, and be by him entered
of record.
^ec. Interlocutory decrees and orders, and other proceedings,
had and made by one justice, may be reversed, annulled, or modified
by the court, at any law term, as justice may require.
CHAPTER CXCI.
JUDICIAL DISTRICTS AND TERMS OF COURT.
SECTIOJf
1. State divided into four judicial districts —
counties composing each.
2. Law terms in each, when and where holden.
3. Court to take cognizance, at law terms, of
matters arising in each county of the dis
trict.
Section
4. Trial terms, when and where holden.
5. No jurors to attend law terms, but grand
and petit Jurors at trial terms, etc.
G. This chapter takes effect August 1, 1867.
Section 1. For the business of the supreme court, at the law
terms, the state is divided into four judicial districts : —
The first to embrace the counties of Rockingham, Strafford, and
Carroll.
The second, the counties of Belknap, Merrimack, and Hillsborough.
The third, the counties of Cheshire and Sullivan.
The fourth, the counties of Grafton and Cob's.
Sec. 2. Law terms of said court shall be holden annually in the
several districts, for each of the counties composing the district, at
the times and places following : that is to say, —
In the first district, at Exeter on the third Tuesday of June, and
at Dover on the third Tuesday of December.
In the second, at Manchester on the first Tuesday of June, and
at Concord on the first Tuesday of December.
In the third, at Newport on the fourth Tuesday of June, and at
Keene on the fourth Tuesday of December.
In the fourth, at Lancaster on the second Tuesday of July, and
at Haverhill on the second Tuesday of January.
Sec. 3. The court, sitting at law terms in any district, shall have
jurisdiction and take cognizance of all matters arising in either of
the comities of such district, in the same manner as if sitting in such
county.
Sec. 4. Trial terms of said court shall be holden annually, at the
times and places following : —
For the county of Rockingham, at Exeter on the third Tuesday of
January, and the second Tuesday of April, and at Portsmouth on the
third Tuesday of October.
For the county of Strafford, at Dover on the second Tuesday of
February and the first Tuesday of September.
For the county of Belknap, at Gilford on the fourth Tuesday of
March, and the fourth Tuesday of September.
For the county of Carroll, at Ossipee on the first Tuesday of May,
and the third Tuesday of October.
For the county of Merrimack, at Concord on the first Tuesday of M
April and the first Tuesday of October.
For the county of Hillsborough, at Manchester on the first Tues- H
day of January, at Amherst on the first Tuesday of May, and at I
Nashua on the first Tuesday of September.
For the county of Cheshire, at Keene on the first Tuesday of April C
and the third Tuesday of October. S
For the county of Sullivan, at Newport on the fourth Tuesday of f
January and the first Tuesday of September.
For the eastern district of the county of Grafton, at Plymouth on E
the first Tuesday of May and the first Tuesday of November. S
For the western district of the county of Grafton, at Haverhill on w
the third Tuesday of March and the third Tuesday of September. i
For the northern district of the county of Coos, at Colebrook on N
the first Tuesday of February and the third Tuesday of August. t
For the southern district of the county of Cob's, at Lancaster on s
the fourth Tuesday of April and the first Tuesday of November. &
Sec. 5. No jurors shall be summoned to attend the law terms, but J
grand and petit jurors shall attend the trial terms, except as other- t
wise provided ; and they may be summoned at the discretion of the
court during its session. 1
Sec. 6. This chapter shall take effect on the first day of Ausnist w
next. i
CHAPTEK CXCII.
TERMS AND ADJOURNMENTS.
Section
1. Four Justices to attend law terms — one at
trial terms, except in cases otherwise pro
vided.
2. If number required do not attend, senior
justice present, sheriff, or clerk, may ad
journ.
3. Court may adjourn at discretion, and in
case of war, etc., to another place in the
county.
Section
4. Adjournment to another place to be by
order riled with clerk, and published.
5. Court may adjourn to another place for
trial of an action, by consent of parties, etc.
6. When term is changed or new term estab
lished, business transferred to new term.
7. If justice disqualified to Bit, others to exer
cise powers of court.
8. No justice* to sit when ho has been party,
attorney, etc., nor to givo advice, etc.
Section 1. At least four justices of the court shall attend at the F
law terms. Trial terms may be holden by one justice, except in cases a
otherwise provided. l
Sec. 2. If the number of justices required do not attend, the senior i
justice present may open and adjourn the court from day to day, to a J
future day or to the next term ; if no justice is present, the sheriff, £
or, in his absence, the clerk, may adjourn the court from day to day
until one of the justices attends.
Sec. 3. ^Tlie court may adjourn from time to time at discretion, A
but not beyond the next term ; and if, by reason of war, pestilence, K
or other public calamity, it is unsafe or inexpedient to hold the term J
at the place appointed therefor, it may be adjourned to any other
place in the county.
c
Sec. 4. Such adjournment to another place shall be made by
order, in writing, of the presiding justice, or the justice designated to
preside, filed with the clerk, who shall publish the same in some news
paper designated, and in such other manner as may be directed in
the order.
Sec. 5. Tbe court may adjourn the trial of any cause, by consent
of the parties and for their convenience, to any other place than that
in which the term is required to be holden ; but no other business
shall be transacted at such adjourned sitting.
Sec. 6. When the time or place of holding a term of the court is
changed, all writs and processes, and every matter or thing return
able at or continued to such term, shall have day in said court at the
time or place to which such term is changed ; and when a new term
is established, matters pending or commenced prior thereto, and
which might in conformity with law be entered or returnable at or
continued to such term, shall have day therein.
Sec. 7. If any justice is disqualified to sit in any case, the other
justices may hear and determine the case, and exercise all the pow
ers of the court in relation thereto.
Sec. 8. No justice shall sit in any case in which he has been con
cerned as party or attorney, or in any appeal in which he has acted
as judge in the court below, nor act as attorney or be of counsel for
either party, nor give advice in any matter pending or which may
come before the court for adjudication.
CHAPTER CXCIII.
CLERKS op courts.
Sectio>-
1. Justices of supreme court to appoint clerk
for each county, and may remove at pleasure.
2. Office of clerk to bo kept in shlre-town, ex
cept in Carroll county.
3. Clerk for each county to attond law terms —
compensation therefor to be paid from state
treasury.
4. At each trial term, clerk to render account
to presiding justico, and balance certified.
5. No money to be paid to or retained by
clerk, except on such certificate.
Section
6. Penalty for clerk's neglect to render ac
count, or for false account.
7. Clerk to deliver to sheriff1 executions, war
rants, etc., for money, etc., accruing to
county, etc.
8. Penalty for neglect.
9. Records and files required to be deposited
with clerks, to be records, otc., of his office.
10. Court may order allowance to clerks whero
no fees are established.
Section 1. The justices of the supreme court shall appoint a clerk
'for each county, who, before entering upon his duties, shall give
bond to the county, in such sum as they direct, with sureties to be
approved by them, conditioned for the faithful performance of his
duties, for the payment according to law of all moneys which may
come to his hands, and for the safe keeping and delivery to his suc
cessor of the records, files, and papers pertaining to his office ; and
they may remove him from office at pleasure,
Sec. 2. The office of such clerk shall be kept in a town in which
a term of said court for the county is required to be holden ; but the
clerk for the county of Carroll may keep his office and the records
thereof in Sandwich, upon providing, at his own expense, a suitable
fire-proof safe for keeping said records therein.
Sec. 3. The clerk for each county shall attend at each law term
of said court, in the district to which his county belongs, and discharge
the duties of his office in relation to the business of his county,
as if the court were sitting therein ; and for said service he shall
receive from the state treasury five dollars per day for his attendance,
and ten cents per mile for his travel to and from said court.
Sec. 4. At the close of each trial term, the clerk shall render to
the presiding justice a full and correct account of all moneys received
by him belonging to the county, not before accounted for, and of
all his legal fees and charges against the county ; and the said jus
tice shall ascertain and certify the balance, which, if in favor of the
county, shall be forthwith paid by the clerk to the county treasurer.
Sec. 5. No money shall be paid to such clerk from the county
treasury, or retained by him out of any moneys in his hands belong-
ing to the county, on account of such fees or charges, except upon
such adjustment of his account and certificate of the balance.
Sec. 6. Any clerk who neglects to render an account as required
„ * , , 9, , „. xi»
in section tour, or who knowingly renders a talse account ot moneys
received, or of his fees and charges mentioned in said section, shall
be fined not more than one hundred dollars.
Sec. 7. At or before the close of each term of the court, the clerk
■
shall deliver to the sheriff" proper executions, warrants, or other prothe
county during the term, and transmit a list thereof to the county
cesses, for the collection
commissioners.
Sec. 8. Any clerk who neglects to deliver to the sheriff any such
cxecution, warrant, or other process, or to transmit such list to the
county commissioners, shall forfeit twenty dollars for each neglect,
to the person who will sue therefor.
Sec. 9. All records, files, and papers required to be deposited in
the office of such clerk, by any law now or heretofore in force, shall
be and remain records, files, and papers of said office, unless other-
wise provided ; and said clerk shall be the proper officer to attest
copies thereof.
Sec. 10. The court may make such allowance as they think proper
to the clerks of the several counties, in full for services by them ren-
dered, for which no fees are established by law.
Section 1. The selectmen of each town shall annually, in De
cember, make a list of such persons as they judge best qualified to
serve as jurors ; and such list shall be by them kept and delivered to
their successors in office.
Sec. 2. Such list shall not contain the names of more than fif
teen persons, in towns containing less than one hundred and fifty
ratable polls ; twenty five, in all other towns containing less than
three hundred ; thirty, in all other towns containing less than four
hundred ; thirty-five, in all other towns containing less than five
hundred ; forty, in all other towns containing less than twelve hun
dred ; and forty-five, in all towns containing more than twelve hun
dred ratable polls ; and shall not contain in any town less than one
half the number fixed as the highest number of names to be put on
said list in such town.
Sec. 3. The governor, auditor, secretary, and treasurer of the
state, judges and clerks of the courts, registers of deeds and of pro
bate, sheriffs and their deputies, counsellors and attorneys at law,
ordained ministers, practicing physicians and surgeons, and post
masters and their assistants under the laws of the United States,
arc exempted from serving as jurors, and their names shall not be
placed on said lists.
Sec. 4. The names on the list in each town shall be written upon
separate and similar pieces of paper, which shall be so rolled up that
the name cannot be seen, and placed in a box provided for that pur
pose by the selectmen, to be kept by the town-clerk under lock.
Sec. 5. When the number of names in the jury-box is reduced be
low the smallest number which the list is required to contain, the
selectmen, before the day appointed for drawing, shall revise the list,
and place in the box the names thereon, as required to be done in
December.
Sec. 6. The court shall direct the number of jurors to be summoned,
and from what towns, so that each may furnish its propor-
tion of jurors in each year.
Sec. 7. The clerk of the supreme court shall issue writs of venire
facias, directed to the clerks of such towns as the court may order,
forty days before the sitting of the court, requiring them to cause to
be selected and returned so many jurors as are therein mentioned.
Sec. 8. He shall' cause the venires to be delivered to such town-
clerks twenty-five days, or to the sheriff forty days, before the Bitting
of the court ; and the sheriff shall cause the venires received
by him to be delivered to the town-clerks twenty-five days before
such sitting.
Sec. 9. Upon the receipt of the venire, the town-clerk shall
notify the selectmen of the time and place by him appointed for
drawing jurors, and post a notice thereof, in some public place in his
town, seven days at least before the time so appointed.
Sec. 10. At the time and place so appointed, the town-clerk, 111
presence of the selectmen, whose duty it shall be to attend, and.of
such other persons as choose to attend, shall draw from the box, so
holden that the papers therein cannot be seen, the names of so
many persons as are required by the venire. In the absence of the
clerk, one of the selectmen shall draw the same.
Sec. 11. If any person whose name is so drawn is dead, insane,
or disabled by sickness, or has removed from town, the town-clerk
shall certify the fact on the venire and draw another name.
Sec. 12. The personswhose names are so drawn, shall be returned
i m
as jurors, and their names shall not be again placed in such box
within two years.
Sec. 13. The town-clerk shall record the notice posted by him as
aforesaid, the names of the selectmen present, and of the persons
drawn as jurors.
Sec. 14. A notice in writing of his selection as a juror, of the
court he is to attend, and the day and hour he is to appear, shall be
given to each juror or left at his abode, four days at least before the
sitting of the court, by the town-clerk, a constable, or one of the
selectmen.
Sec. 15. The town-clerk shall certify upon the venire the names
of the persons so drawn, and that they have been notified as afore-
said, and cause such venire to be returned to the clerk of the court
at the hour at which the juror is required to attend.
Sec. 16. While the court is in session, venires may be issued and
notice of the time and place of drawing given, and the jurors drawn
and notified forthwith ; and the jurors so drawn and notified shall
attend the court as directed in the venire.
Sec. 17. If any clerk, sheriff, or town-clerk neglects to perforin
any of the duties enjoined by this chapter, he shall be fined by the
court twenty dollars.
Sec. 18. If any person selected as a juror and duly notified to
attend, neglects, without sufficient cause, to attend agreeably to such
notice, he shall be fined by the court not exceeding twenty dollars.
Sec. 19. If any selectman wilfully neglects to perforin any duty
required by this chapter, or puts upon the list a greater number of
names than is allowed by law, or the name of any person at his own
request, or on the request of any other person, or unlawfully with-
draws from the box the name of any person upon the list, or is guilty
of any fraud or collusion with respect to the drawing of jurors, he
shall be fined fifty dollars for each offence.
Sec. 20. If any town-clerk draws from the box a greater number
of names than are mentioned in the venire, except in cases provided,
or unlawfully puts or suffers to be put into said box any name, after
the same is delivered to him as aforesaid, or is guilty of any fraud
or collusion in respect to the drawing of jurors, he shall be fined
fifty dollars.
Sec. 21. The sheriff, coroner, or other officer, under the direction
of the court, may return jurors of the persons present.
Sec. 22. Any juror may be required by the court, on motion of
any party in the cause to be tried, to answer upon oath whether he
expects to gain or lose by the issue of the cause ; whether he is re
lated to either party ; whether he has advised or assisted either
party, or directly or indirectly given his opinion or has formed any
opinion ; or is sensible of any prejudice in the cause ; and if it appears
that any juror is not indifferent he shall be set aside on that trial.
Sec. 23. The oath to be administered to jurors in civil cases shall
be as follows : —
" You swear that in all causes betwixt party and party that shall
be committed unto you you will give a true verdict, according to law
and the evidence given you. So help you God."
CHAPTER CXCV
justice courts and civil proceedings therein.
Section
1. Justice may try civil causes where damages
do not exceed thirteen dollars and thirtythree
cents.
2. No evidence to be offered drawing title to
real estate in question.
3. If plea of title, plaintiff may enter action In
supreme court, etc.
4. If plaintiff neglects, costs to be allowed de
fendant.
5. Either party may appeal from judgment
of justice.
6. Appeal to be claimed lu two hours, and
recognizance, etc., to be given.
7. Appellant to enter appeal, and file copies
with clerk.
8. If he neglects, judgment of justice to be
affirmed.
9. If plaintiff appeals, and does not recover in-
Section
creased damages, costs of appeal to defend
ant.
10. If judgment that writ abate be revorsed,
cause not to be remanded.
11. Trial may be adjourned not exceeding Uireo
months.
12. If Justice foils to attend, another justice may
adjourn.
13. Justice not to act as attorney, or advise
cither party.
14. Justice to keep records.
15. To complete proceedings after his commis
sion expires.
16. Hemoving from county, to deposit records
with clerks.
17. Administrator of deceased justice, etc., to
deposit records, etc.—penalty for neglect.
18. Records deposited with clerk to be records
of his office.
Section 1. Every justice of the peace within his county may try
and determine civil causes in which the title to real estate is not
drawn in question, and in which the damages demanded do not ex
ceed thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents.
Sec. 2. In the trial of an action before a justice, no evidence shall
be offered in defence which brings the title to real estate in question,
but such defence may be pleaded specially ; and when such plea is
filed no further proceedings shall be had before the justice than to
record the plea, and, if the plaintiff elects, to enter a nonsuit.
Sec. 3. If such special plea is filed, and the plaintiff does not
elect to be nonsuited, he may enter the action at the next trial term
of the supreme court, filing with the clerk attested copies of the
writ, plea, and other papers used before the justice, and prosecute
the action in said court, as if originally commenced therein.
Sec. 4. If the plaintiff does not enter the action at such trial
term, costs, including those before the justice, may be allowed to the
defendant, upon his complaint therefor, in the supreme court.
Sec. 5. Either party may appeal from the judgment of a justice,
in a civil cause, to the next trial term of the supreme court.
Sec 6. No such appeal shall be allowed unless claimed within
two hours after the judgment is rendered, nor unless the party ap-
pealing, within twenty-four hours, enters into recognizance, or files
with the justice a bond to the adverse party, with sufficient sureties,
in the sum of twenty dollars, to pay flie costs which may be recovered
against him. '
Sec 7. The party appealing shall enter his appeal, and file with
the clerk of the court to which the appeal is taken attested copies
of the record, and of all papers in the cause before the justice.
Sec 8. If he neglects to enter his appeal, to file such copies, or
to pay the jury fee, the judgment of the justice shall be affirmed, with
costs, to the appellee.
Sec 9. If in an action on contract the plaintiff appeals and does
not recover greater damages than those awarded by the justice, he
shall recover no costs other than those before the justice, and the
defendant shall recover his costs on the appeal.
Sec 10. If the judgment of the justice that the writ abate be reversed
on appeal, the cause shall not be remanded, but shall be de-
termined in the appellate court.
Sec 11. The trial of a civil cause before a justice may be ad-
journed, at his discretion, not exceeding three months.
Sec 12. If the justice fails to attend at the time and place to
which civil process is returnable or continued before him, another
justice may attend and adjourn the cause not exceeding thirty days,
without costs to either party, and saving the rights of all parties. If
the justice before whom the process was originally returnable or con
tinued shall decease, or shall be absent from the state and shall not
return within said thirty days, the justice so adjourning the cause
shall have jurisdiction to try and determine the same, and may issue
execution to carry his judgment into effect as fully as if the process
had been originally returnable before him.
Sec 13. A justice shall not be of counsel, nor act as attorney for
nor advise or assist either party, in a cause pending or which may
come before him.
Sec 14. Every justice shall keep a fair record, in one or more
books kept by him for that purpose, of all official proceedings before
him.
Sec. 15. In proceedings commenced before a justice, he may, after
the expiration of his term of office, complete the proceedings,
issue execution, and attest copies of his records, as if in office, and
in relation thereto he shall have the powers and be subject to the
duties and liabilities of a justice, in like manner, to the same extent,
and with like effect as if he continued in office.
sEC> 16. A justice in commission or whose commission has expired,
removing from his county, shall deposit his official records and
fijes ^ ^ Qf ^ 8upreme court for the county. If he neg*ec^s
80 *° ^° ne snaU forfeit the sum of five dollars for every month's
neglect after such removal, to any person who will sue therefor.
^ ' ^ne execut°r or administrator of a justice deceased, or
of a person who has been a justice, and every person to whose hands
any of the official records or files of such justice or of a justice re
moved from his county may come, shall forthwith deposit the same
with said clerk. Whoever neglects so to do for the space of six
months shall forfeit the sum of ten dollars for each month's neglect
after said six months, to any person who will sue therefor.
^Ec> ^ ^ne recor^8 an<l nles °f justices deceased and removed
from their counties shall be kept by the clerk of the supreme court
for the county, and are records and files of his office.
CHAPTER CXCVI.
POLICE COURTS.
Section
1. Towns may provide annual salary of police
justice, etc.
2. Court to consist of one justice — special jus
tice to be appointed.
3. Justice may appoint clerk, or justice to be
clerk.
4. If justice and special Justice disqualified,
justice of peace may hear, etc.
5. Court to have Jurisdiction of justice and
powers of justice of quorum.
6. Writs in civil cases to be returnable within
the town to police court.
7. To be under seal, bear teste of justice, etc.,
and signed by clerk.
8. Session once each mouth, and may be ad
journed, etc.
9. Writs, etc., except against tenants, to be
then returnable.
Section
10. Executions to be returnable in sixty days
from date.
11. Appeals to be taken as from justices of
peace, and like fees allowed.
12. Special justice and justice of peace attend
ing, to receive per diem from town.
13. Fees accruing to police Justice to be for use
of town unless otherwise provided.
14. Town may rescind vote establishing salary-
fees to be taken by justice.
15. Associate, assistant, or special Justice of
court heretofore established to be deemed
special justice.
16. Suits, etc., commenced before justice of the
peace , to be determined as if this chapter not
enacted.
Section 1. Any town may by vote provide a suitable compensation,
not less than one hundred dollars per annum, for the justice of
a police court therein ; and upon a certificate made by the town-clerk
to the governor, of such vote, and of the article in the warrant for
the town meeting under which it was passed, authorizing the same,
a justice of such court may be appointed, and the court thereby es
tablished.
^EC- 2* Such court shall consist of one learned, able, and discreet
person, appointed and commissioned justice thereof by the governor,
with advice of the council; and a special justice thereof, in like
manner appointed and commissioned, who, in the absence, inability,
or disqualification of the justice, shall perform his duties and ex
ercise his powers.
Sec. 3. The justice of said court may appoint a clerk thereof, if
provision is made for his compensation by the town or otherwise ;
in default of such appointment, the justice, or, in his absence, the
special justice, shall be clerk thereof as to all business before them
respectively transacted in said court, and such clerk or justice shall
keep a full record of the proceedings therein.
Sec. 4. If the justice and special justice are disqualified or unable
from any cause to sit in any case, any disinterested justice of
the peace, attending by request of the court, may hear and determine
such case, with like effect as if the same were heard and deter
mined by the justice of said court.
Sec. 5. Said court shall have the jurisdiction and cognizance of
all suits and proceedings which may be heard before a justice of the j
peace, shall have the powers of a justice of the peace and quorum
throughout the state, in civil and criminal cases, and may make suitable
rules for conducting and regulating the business of the court.
Sec. 6. Writs, in civil actions, shall not be made returnable before
a justice of the peace within such town, but shall be returnable
and returned in said town only before said court.
Sec. 7. Writs and other process issuing from said court shall be
under the seal thereof, shall bear teste of the justice, if not disqualified;
otherwise of the special justice, and shall be signed by the
clerk.
Sec. 8. A session of said court shall be holden at some suitable
place, to be provided therefor by the selectmen, on one day at least
in each month, as may be appointed by law or by a rule of the court,
and at such other times as may be necessary ; and may be adjourned
from day to day, or to a future day, not beyond the next established
session.
Sec. 9. Writs and processes in civil actions, except those for
the removal of tenants, shall bo returnable at such session of the
court ; writs of summons against tenants may be returnable on any
day.
Sec. 10. Executions on judgments, in civil suits in said court,
may be made returnable within sixty days from the date thereof.
Sec. 11. Appeals may be taken from judgments of said court, in
the same manner and upon the same conditions as from justices of
the peace, and the same fees shall be allowed, in proceedings in such
court, as may be allowed in like cases before a justice of the peace.
Sec. 12. The special justice shall be paid by the town two dollars
per day for the time of actual service by him ; and any justice
attending by request of said court, as provided in section four, shall
receive of the town the same compensation, and six cents per mile
for his travel to and from the court.
Sec. 13. The fees accruing to the justice of said court shall be
for the use of the town, unless a different disposition thereof is made
by the town.
Sec. 14. Any town may rescind their vote establishing an annual
salary for a police justice, and shall be no longer liable therefor ; in
which case the justice and special justice of said court may receive
and hold all fees accruing to them to their own use.
Sec. 15. The assistant, associate, or special justice of any police
court heretofore established, shall be deemed to be a special justice
of such court, agreeably to the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 16. Suits and proceedings commenced before a justice of the
peace, in any town, when a police justice is first appointed for such
town, shall be heard and determined as if the provisions of this chapter had not been enacted.
CHAPTER CXCVII.
SHERIFFS, CORONERS, AND CONSTABLES.
Section
1. Sheriffs may appoint deputies, and deputa
tion to be under seal and recorded.
2. May appoint special deputy for service of
particular process.
3. Shall serve writs, etc., and act as crier of
the court.
4. When sheriff a party, etc., coroner to Berve
writ, etc.
5. Constables to servo writs to them directed.
6. Sheriffs, etc., not disqualified to serve writs,
etc., where their town, etc., is a party.
7. Penalty for neglect of officer, when fees
tendered, etc.
8. Sheriff, etc., may require aid — penalty for
refusal.
0. Sheriff resigning or removed, to comx'lcte
business commenced.
10. When office vacant, deputies to continue in
office till vacancy filled.
11. No business to be received after thirty days
from meeting of governor and council.
12. Defaults, etc., of deputies, to be deemed
breach of bond.
Sectiox
13. Sheriff to account to treasurer for tines for
which he has warrants.
14. Penalty for neglect of sheriff to pay to county
treasurer.
15. List of uncollected warrants, etc., for flne6
etc., to be given to county commissioners —
penalty for neglect.
16. Sheriff annually to submit account to court.
17. Penalty for neglect of sheriff to pay to ex
ecution creditor.
18. When trusteed, and bond of indemnity
tendered, sheriff, etc., to pay interest.
19. Execution not to issue against body of
sheriff.
20. If execution returned unsatisfied, creditor
to file copy with secretary of state, and sheriff
Bliall be removed.
21. Sheriff and deputy not to appear as attor
ney — writ, etc., made by him void.
22. May discharge deputy, etc.
23. But liable for his conduct until discharge,
etc., recorded.
Section 1. Every sheriff may appoint so many deputies as he
thinks proper, by deputation in writing, under his hand and seal,
and not otherwise, who shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of
their duties ; the deputation and certificate of oath thereon shall be
recorded at length, by the clerk of the supreme court, in a book kept
by him for that purpose, and no deputy shall act as such until such
record is made.
Sec. 2. The sheriff may appoint a special deputy for the service
and return of any process, by warrant indorsed thereon, in the man
ner heretofore practiced ; and he is responsible for the official con
duct of his deputies.
Sec. 3. He shall, by himself or his deputies, serve and execute,
in his county, all writs and other precepts to him directed, issuing
from lawful authority ; and shall perform the duties of crier of the
court.
Sec. 4. When the sheriff is a party, or related to cither party, or
interested in the suit, the writ shall be directed to and served by
any coroner ; and on the trial of the suit the coroner shall return
talesmen and attend the jury, and shall have the powers and be
subject to the liabilities, in relation thereto, of the sheriff in like
cases.
Sec. 5. Constables shall serve and return writs and other precepts
to them directed, and shall have similar powers and be subject to
similar liabilities in relation thereto as sheriffs.
Sec. 6. No sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner, or constable is dis-
qualified to serve any writ or other precept in which a town or
other corporation is a party by reason of his being a citizen of such
town or member of such corporation.
Sec. 7. If any such officer refuses or neglects to serve any legal
precept to him directed and delivered for service, his fees therefor
being first tendered, or without such tender, in criminal cases, when
the precept is indorsed by the attorney-general or solicitor, or by
the clerk by order of court, he shall forfeit fifty dollars, to any per
son aggrieved thereby who shall sue therefor within three months.
Sec. 8. Any officer having authority to serve process or make an
arrest may require suitable aid in the execution of his office ; and
any person who neglects or refuses to give such aid, when so re-
quired, shall be fined not exceeding twenty dollars.
Sec. 9. Upon the resignation, removal from office, or expiration
of the term of office of any sheriff, he shall execute all precepts in
his hands, complete all official business previously committed to him,
and deliver to his successor all prisoners in his custody.
Sec. 10. When a vacancy happens in the office of sheriff, the
deputies and jailers then in office shall continue to execute the same
in the name of the late sheriff, until another is appointed and quali-
fied, and until they have completed all business previously intrusted
to them.
Sec. 11. No deputy sheriff shall receive any business after the
expiration of thirty days from the next meeting of the governor and
council after such vacancy occurs.
Sec. 12. The defaults and misfeasances of such deputy or jailer,
during said time, shall be deemed a breach of their respective bonds
to the sheriff who has ceased to hold his office ; and the executor or
administrator of a deceased sheriff shall have like remedy for such
defaults and misfeasances as said sheriff would have if in office.
Sec. 13. The sheriff is accountable to the county commissioners
for money in his hands belonging to or for the use of the county,
and for fines, forfeitures, and costs, for which warrants or other pro-
cess are issued to him by the clerk, unless he satisfies the commissioners
that the same have not been and cannot be collected.
Sec. 14. Any sheriff who fails to pay to the county treasurer any
money received by him for the county, immediately on receipt thereof,
or the amount of any fine, forfeiture, or costs, immediately after he
has voluntarily or negligently suffered any prisoner liable therefor
to escape, shall forfeit treble the amount thereof, with double costs
of suit, to be recovered by said treasurer for the use of the county ;
and may be removed from office by the governor, with advice of the
council.
Sec. 15. At each trial term of the supreme court, the sheriff shall
deliver to the county commissioners a list of the warrants or other
process for fines, forfeitures, or costs, before said term delivered to
him by the clerk, and then uncollected without fault on his part, and
return the same to the clerk for renewal ; and for any neglect to de
liver such list or to return such warrant or other process he shall
forfeit fifty dollars.
Sec. 16. The sheriff shall, once in each year, submit to the supreme
court, at a trial term thereof, a statement in detail of all services of
himself or of his deputies for which the county is chargeable, and
such amount shall be allowed as is just; and no such account shall
be allowed unless presented within one year after the service was
performed.
Sec. 17. Any sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner, or constable who re
fuses or neglects, on demand, to pay to an execution creditor any
money received by him on such execution for said creditor shall pay
five times the lawful interest thereon for the time he detains the
same after demand.
Sec. 18. When such officer is trusteed for such money, and re
fuses to pay the same to the creditor upon his tendering to the officer
a bond, with sufficient sureties, to repay so much thereof as may be
held by the trustee process, with costs, such officer shall be liable for
interest thereon from the time of tendering such bond.
Sec. 19. When judgment is rendered against a sheriff, execution
may issue against his estate, but not against his body ; and when he
ceases to hold said office, execution may issue against his body as in
other like cases.
Sec. 20. When an execution against the estate of a sheriff is re
turned unsatisfied, the creditor may file a certified copy thereof and
of the return with the secretary of state, who shall give notice thereof
and of the day when filed to such sheriff, and if said execution is
not paid, with the costs of such copy and notice, in forty days after
the sheriff is so notified, the governor, with advice of the council,
shall forthwith remove him from office.
Sec. 21. No sheriff or deputy sheriff shall be suffered to appear in
any court or before any justice as attorney for any party in a suit ; and
any writ, declaration, plea, or other process made by a sheriff or
deputy sheriff for another person is void.
Sec. 22. Any sheriff may discharge from office any of his depu
ties, by writing, under his.hand and seal, which shall be served by
another deputy, by reading the same or giving an attested copy thereof
to the deputy so discharged ; and such discharge, with a certificate
of the service thereof, shall be recorded in the manner prescribed
for recording deputations.
Sec. 23. The sheriff is liable for the official conduct of his depu
ties respectively until such discharge and certificate of service are
so recorded.
Section 1. Before performing any official act, sheriff's and coroners
shall give bond to the county, and constables to the town, with sufficient
sureties for the faithful performance of their duties.
Sec 2. The bond of each sheriff shall be in a sum not less than
thirty thousand dollars, with condition to answer for the neglects
and misdoings of his deputies; and of each coroner in a sum not
less than five thousand dollars ; which bonds shall be approved by a
majority of the justices of the supreme court, and deposited in the
office of the clerk thereof.
Sec. 3. Constables' bonds shall be in such sum as may be required
by the selectmen, shall be approved by them, and deposited with the
town-clerk.
Sec. 4. The clerk of the supreme court for each county shall an-
nually, at the law term for his county next after the first day of November,
lay before the court the sheriffs bond to the county, the
sufficiency of which and of the sureties thereon shall be considered
by the court, and a record of the sufficiency or insufficiency thereof
entered upon the docket.
Sec. 5. If such bond is adjudged insufficient, the court shall order
such sheriff to file a new bond within a time limited in the order ;
and the clerk shall record the same, and forthwith deliver an attested
copy thereof to the sheriff.
Sec. 6. If the sheriff neglects to furnish such new bond approved
by a majority of said justices, within the time so limited, the clerk
shall transmit an attested copy of said order, with his certificate of
such neglect, to the governor, who, with advice of the council, shall
forthwith remove said sheriff from office.
Sec. 7. Any person injured by the neglect or misconduct of any
sheriff or his deputy, or of any coroner, having recovered judgment
thereon against such sheriff or coroner, or his executor or administrator,
may commence a suit on his bond in the name of the county,
Sec. 8. The clerk of the court shall deliver to any person applying
and paying therefor an attested copy of such bond, which shall
be evidence thereof in such suit. If the execution of the bond is denied,
the court may order the original to be brought into court.
Sec. 9. The declaration in such suit shall set forth the condition
of the bond and the name of the person for whose use the suit is
brought, and assign the breaches relied upon ; and if the plaintiff
recovers, judgment shall be rendered in favor of the county for the
whole penalty of the bond, but execution shall issue only in favor of
the person for whose use the suit is brought, for his damages on ac
count of the breaches assigned and costs.
Sec. 10. After judgment so rendered for the whole penalty, any
person having like cause of action upon such bond may, on scire
facias, recover execution for his damages, until the whole amount of
the penalty is applied on account of damages so recovered.
Sec. 11. If the defendant prevails in such suit, the county shall
not be liable for costs, but the same may be recovered of the endorser
of the writ on scire facias.
Sec. 12. Like proceedings maybe had, by suit in the name of the
town, upon the bond of a constable, and by scire facias for any neg
lect or misdoing of such constable.
CHAPTEE CXCIX.
ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS.
Sectios
1. Party may appear in person, or by any citi
zen of good character.
2. Any citizen twenty-one years of age and of
good moral character shall be admitted on
application.
3. Attorney or counsellor in other Btato admit
ted to practice upon evidence of good char
acter.
4. Attorney admitted may practice in any
Section
court, upon filing copy of admission with
clerk.
5. Form of oath to be administered to attorney.
6. No person allowed commonly to practice
unless admitted and sworn.
7. Court to proceed in summary way with at
torney charged with fraud, etc.
8. No person to act as attorney in cause in
which he has acted as judge.
Section 1. A party in any cause or proceeding may appear, plead,
prosecute, or defend, in his proper person or by any citizen of good
character.
Sec 2. Any citizen of the age of twenty-one years, of good moral
character, on application to the supreme court, shall be admitted to
practice as an attorney.
Sec. 3. Any person who has been admitted to practice as an at
torney or counsellor of the highest judicial court of another state, of
which he was then an inhabitant, shall be admitted to practice as an
attorney, upon satisfactory evidence of his good character.
Sec. 4. Every attorney admitted as aforesaid may practice as at
torney in any court, upon filing with the clerk a copy of the record
of his admission.
Sec. 5. Every attorney admitted to practice shall take and sub
scribe, in open court, the oaths to support the constitution of this
state and of the United States, and the oath of office in the follow
ing form : —
" You solemnly swear that you will do no falsehood, nor consent
that any be done in the court, and if you know of any, that you will
give knowledge thereof to the justices of the court, or some of them,
that it may be reformed ; that you will not wittingly or willingly
promote, sue, or procure to be sued any false or unlawful suit, nor
consent to the same ; that you will delay no man for lucre or malice,
and will act in the office of an attorney within the court according
to the best of your learning and discretion, and with all good fidelity
as well to the court as your client. So help you God."
Sec. 6. No person shall be permitted commonly to practice as an
attorney in court unless he has been admitted by the court, and
taken the oath aforesaid.
Sec. 7. The court shall inquire in a summary manner into any
charge of fraud, malpractice, or contempt of court, against an attorney,
and upon satisfactory evidence of his guilt shall suspend
him from practice or may remove him from office.
Sec. 8. No person shall act as attorney in any cause in which he
has acted as judge.
CHAPTER CC.
STATE REPORTER.
Section
1. Reporter of decisions to be appointed by
governor, and removable at pleasure.
2. Justices of supreme court to furnish reports
in six months.
3. Reports of new or doubtful points, etc., only
to be furnished.
Section
4. Reporter to edit, sell, and pay not proceeds
into treasury.
5. Size, style, and price of volume to be fixed
by justices of supreme court, etc.
Section 1. The governor, with advice of the council, shall from
time to time appoint some suitable person to be reporter of the decisions
of the supreme court, who may be removed at their pleasure,
and who, before entering upon his duties, shall be sworn to the faith
ful discharge thereof.
Sec. 2. Each justice of said court shall prepare for the. press and
furnish to the reporter concise reports of the cases in which the
judgment or opinion of the court, in matters of law pending at the
law terms, was pronounced by him, within six months after the same
is pronounced.
Sec. 3. Reports of such cases only shall be so prepared and furnished
as in the opinion of said justices establish some new or set-
tie some doubtful point not before adjudicated and reported among
the decisions of the state, or as are otherwise deemed by them im
portant to be published.
Sec. 4. Said reporter shall edit said reports as early as practicable,
provide for the sale thereof by disposing of the copyright or other-
wise, as he may deem expedient, and pay into the state treasury the
net proceeds, after deducting the reasonable and necessary expenses
of publishing and selling.
Sec. 5. The size, style, and price of the volumes of said reports
shall be prescribed by said justices, the price not to exceed three
dollars and fifty cents per volume, printed and bound like the thir
teenth volume of the New-Hampshire reports, unless such volume
contains an increase of matter proportionate to the increase of price.
Section 1. Transitory actions, in which both parties are inhabitants
of the state, may be brought in the county of which either party
is ail inhabitant, and not elsewhere.
Sec. 2. One copartner or joint owner may recover, in an action of
assumpsit against another, his just share of any property received
an(* wrongfully withheld by such other.
xxi, 339; xl, 403; xliii, 52, 402; xliv, 376.
Sec. 3. One cotenant of real estate may recover, in such action B
against another, for his share of any trees, fixtures, or other part of i
the estate destroyed, severed, or carried away by such other. x
Sec. 4. One cotenant of real estate may recover, in such action, o
of another taking the income thereof without his consent, and wrong- e
fully withholding the same, all damages he may sustain thereby. c
Sec. 5. When an execution is returned satisfied in whole or in ^
part, by an extent or levy upon estate or property not liable to be
taken upon the execution, an action of debt may be brought upon
the judgment, within six years after the extent or levy, for the amount
equitably due and costs of levying.
Sec. 6. Sheriffs, constables, and other officers liable for default
or misconduct in office, shall be holden to answer for the damages
in an action on the case, and in no other form.
Sec. 7. Any person compelled to pay damages for the escape of a
, r r , , r r f, B „ . r
prisoner in his custody may recover the same of the prisoner escaping,
or of others aiding the escape.
Sec. 8. Bills of exchange, drafts, orders, and negotiable promissory
notes are payable with days of grace allowed, unless payable
on demand or otherwise so expressed as to show that the parties
did not intend to allow grace.
Sec. 9. Bills of exchange, drafts, promissory notes, and contracts,
maturing or to be executed on Sunday, thanksgiving, fast, or christ-
mas day, or on the fourth day of July, or the 22d day of February,
or on the following day, when either of the two days last mentioned
occurs on Sunday, are payable and to be executed on the day next
preceding, not being one of said days, and may be noted and pro-
tested for non-payment, or non-fulfilment, on such next preceding day.
Sec. 10. Notice to charge the indorser or other collateral party,
upon a bill of exchange, draft, or promissory note, protested or dishonored,
may be given on the day next following, not being one of
Said days. 199,271; ix, 558; x, 359, 526; xiii, 415;xiv,70,540; xxviii, 302; xl, 606,540.
Sec. 11. When in an action upon a bill of exchange, draft, or
promissory note, a total want or failure of consideration would be a
defence, the defendant may, upon filing a brief statement thereof
with his plea, prove a partial want or failure of consideration in refbirtinn
nf thp dnmsnrpq xiv,44; xxii, xxviii, 290, 386; 540; xxxvii, 519;
auction oi tne uamages. 246; xxvii, 412; xxx, 181,4-2, xiv,470.
Sec. 12. No action shall be maintained upon a contract for the sale
of land, unless the agreement upon which it is brought or some memorandum
thereof is in writing, and signed by the party to be charged,
or by some person by him thereto authorized by writing.
102,148,547 ; 393; xviii, 293; 10; xxiv, 484; xxxiv, 414; xxxvii, 185; xl,
xiil, 264; xiv, xxi, 291 ; xxii, xxxiii, 32; xxxv, 235 ; 362; xlv, 313, 323.
Sec. 13. No action shall be brought to charge an executor or ad-
ministrator upon a special promise to answer damages out of his own
• i • x*i
estate, nor to charge any person upon a special promise to answer for
the debt, default or, miscarriage of another, or upon any agreement
made in consideration of marriage, or that is not to be performed
within one year from the time of making it, unless such promise or
agreement, or some note or memorandum thereof, is in writing and
signed by the party to be charged, or by some person by him thereto
authorized.
Sec. 14. No contract for the sale of goods, wares, or merchandise,
for the price of thirty-three dollars, or more, is valid, unless the
buyer accepts aud actually receives part of the propertv sold, or gives
something in part payment or in earnest to bind the bargain, or un
less some note or memorandum thereof is in writing, and signed by
the party to be charged or by some person by him thereto authorized.
CHAPTER CCII
LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
Section
1. Real actions to be brought in twenty years
after right first accrued.
2. If disability of Insanity, infancy, etc., in five
years after removed.
3. Trespass to person and for slander in two
years — other personal actions in six years.
4. Debt on judgments, recognizances, etc., in
twenty years.
5. On notes secured by mortgage, as long as
action on mortgage.
Section
G. Writs of error In three years after Judgment.
7. Infants, insane persons, etc., in two years
after disability removed.
8. Time of defendant's absence from state to
be excluded in personal actions.
9. New action in one year after judgment
against plaintiff, etc., ifjudgment not a bar.
10. This chapter not to apply where different
time limited.
Section 1. No action for the recovery of real estate shall be
brought after twenty years from the time the right to recover first
accrued to the party claiming it, or to some person under whom he
claims.
Sec. 2. If the person first entitled to bring such action is an in
fant, a married woman, or insane, at the time the right accrues, the
action may be brought within five years after such disability is re
moved.
Sec. 3. Actions of trespass to the person and actions for defama
tory words may be brought within two years, and all other personal
actions within six years, after the cause of action accrued, and not
afterward.
377; xi, 170; xiii, xv, 140; xxi, xxiv 319; xxx, 136, 329;
486; xiv, 422 ; 219; xxii, 219; xxvili, 26, 181 ; xliv, 30C.
Sec. 4. Actions of debt upon judgments, recognizances, and con
tracts under seal may be brought within twenty years after the
cause of action accrued, and not afterward.
Sec. 5. Actions upon notes secured by mortgage may be brought
so long as the plaintiff is entitled to bring an action upon the mort
gage.
Sec. 6. Writs of error may be sued out within three years after
judgment, and not afterward, unless allowed by the court for suffi
cient cause, upon petition and notice.
Sec. 7. Any infant, married woman, or insane person may bring
any personal action within two years after such disability is re
moved.
Sec. 8. If the defendant in a personal action was absent from
and residing out of the state at the time the cause of action ac
crued, or afterward, the time of such absence shall be excluded in
computing the time limited for bringing the action.
Sec. 9. If judgment is rendered against the plaintiff, in an action
brought within the time limited therefor, or upon a writ of error
thereon, and the right of action is not barred by the judgment, a
new action may be brought thereon in one year after the judgment.
Sec. 10. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to cases in
which a different time is limited by statute.
Section 1. Writs, declarations, processes, indictments, answers,
pleadings, and entries of record in the courts shall be in the English
language, and in no other.
Sec. 2. Writs and processes issuing returnable to any court shall
be in the name of the state of New-Hampshire, shall be under the
seal of the court, shall bear teste of the chief, first, senior, or other
justice of the court who is not a party, and shall be signed by the
clerk ; if in the supreme court they may be signed by the clerk thereof
for any county.
Sec. 3. Writs returnable to the supreme court shall be directed
to the sheriff of any county or his deputy, except when the sheriff
is a party, in which case they shall be directed to the coroner of any
county.
Sec. 4. Original process in said court shall be summons, attach-
ment, and capias, and shall be in the form prescribed by law.
Sec. 5. In cases where no form of process is prescribed, the pro-
cess shall be made conformable to the forms prescribed, so far as the
nature of the case will admit.
Sec. 6. In real actions and actions of ejectment, the original writ
shall be summons or attachment only.
Sec. 7. When the name of the defendant is unknown to the plaintiff,
the writ may be issued against him by any fictitious name, and,
being duly served, it shall not for that cause be abated, but may be
amended on such terms as the court may order.
Sec. 8. Original writs, before service thereof, shall be indorsed by
the plaintiff or by his agent or attorney, if the plaintiff is an inhab-
itant of the state ; otherwise by some responsible person who is such
J r r
inhabitant.
Sec. 9. If the defendant recover costs, the person indorsing the
writ shall be liable therefor on scire facias, upon the return of non est,
or not satisfied, upon the execution therefor : but if the plaintiff live
out of the state, the indorser shall be so liable without such return,
Sec. 10. Such scire facias shall be served upon the indorser within
one year after judgment for said costs, and not afterward.
Sec. 11. Writs issued by justices of police courts and justices of
the peace shall be under seal, and directed to the sheriff of the
county or his deputy, or to any constable of any town in the county,
or to either of said officers.
Sec. 12. Writs issued by any such justice shall be signed by him,
and shall be returnable at a day, hour, and place named therein, and
in other respects they shall be substantially in the form prescribed.
Sec. 13. If the defendant in an action before such police court or
justice has personal property liable to attachment in a county of
which he is not an inhabitant, the original writ and execution may
be directed to the sheriff of any county, his deputy, or to any con
stable of any town in which the defendant resides or has such
property.
Sec. 14. The forms of writs and processes, in the cases following,
shall be in substance as follows : —
Attachment : —
THE STATE OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
f
[L.
ss. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy :
.] We command you to attach the goods or estate of
in said county of to the value of
dollars, and summon him, if to be found in your precinct,
to appear at tbe supreme judicial court to be holden at ,
in said county, on the Tuesday of , to answer
to , of , in said county of , in a plea
of , to the damage of the plaintiff , as he say the
sum of dollars, and make return of this writ with your
doings therein.
Witness , Esquire, the day of ,
Clerk.
Sec. 15. Capias and attachment : —
THE STATE OP NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
-SS. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy :
[l. s.] We command you to arrest the body of , of
, in said county of , or to attach his goods or
estate to the value of dollars, and summon him, if to be
found in your precinct, to appear at the supreme judicial court to
be holden at , in said county', on the Tues-
of
day of , to answer to
county of , in a pica of
plaintiff , as he say the sum of
return of this writ, with your doings therein
Witness, , Esquire, the day of
in said
to the damage of the
dollars, and make
Clerk.
Sec. 16. Summons: — w
m
THE STATE OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE. a
-ss. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy :
[l. s.] We command you to summon , of ,
in said county of , if to be found in your precinct, to appear
at the supreme judicial court to be holden at , in
said county, on the Tuesday of , to answer to
, of , in said county of , in a plea of
, to the damage of the plaintiff , as he say , the
sum of dollars, and make return of this writ, with your
doings therein.
Witness, , Esquire, the day of ,
Cleric.
Sec. 17. Trustee process, or foreign attachment : — K
C
THE STATE OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
ss. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy :
[l. s.] We command you to attach the goods or estate of
, of , in said county of , to the value of
dollars, and summon him, if to be found in your precinct,
to appear at the supreme judicial court to be holden at ,
in said county, on the Tuesday of * , to answer
to • , of , in said county of , in a plea
of , to the damage of the plaintiff , as he say , the
sum of dollars. We also command you to attach the
money, goods, chattels, rights, and credits of the said , in
the hands of , of , in said county of
, to the value of dollars, and summon said ,
if to be found in your precinct, to appear at said court and show
cause, if any he has, why execution should not issue against him for
the judgment which may be recovered by said , against
said , and make return of this writ, with your doings
therein.
Witness, , Esquire, the day of ,
Clerk.
Sec. 18. Replevin : —
THE STATE OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
ss. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy :
[l. s.] We command you to replevy , belonging to
, of , in said county of , wrongfully
taken and detained, as it is said, by , of , in said
county of , and deliver the same to said , provided
he give bond in the sum of dollars, with sufficient sureties,
to prosecute his replevin at the supreme judicial court to be holden
at , in said county, on the , Tuesday of
, and so from court to court until the cause be ended, and to
pay such costs and damages as the said may recover against
him ; and we also command you to summon the said , if
to be found in your precinct, to appear at said court, and answer to
on the
at
, in said county, in a
said
in a plea of replevin, for that the said
day of
certain , there situate, known as , bounded
, unlawfully took the said , of the value of
dollars, then and there being the proper goods and chattels of him,
the said , and hath ever since detained the same, against
the right and to the damage of the said , as he says, the
Bum of dollars ; and make return of this writ, with your
doings therein.
Witness , Esquire, the day of ,
Clerk.
Sec. 19. Summons to defendant when property attached : —
THE STATE OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
-SS.
To
,of
, in said county :
[l. s.] We command you to appear at the supreme judicial court
to be holden at , in said county, on the Tues
day of , to answer to , of , in said
county of , in a plea of , which the said
has commenced against you, to be heard and tried at said court, and
your goods or estate are attached to the value of dollars,
for security to satisfy the judgment which may be recovered against
you. Fail not of appearance at your peril.
Witness , Esquire, the day of ,
Clerk.
Sec. 20. Scire facias :THE
STATE OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
88. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy:
[l. s.] Whereas, of , in said county,
by the consideration of the justices of the supreme judicial
court holden at , in said county, on the Tues
day of , , recovered judgment against ,
of , in said county , for dollars
cents, costs of suit, on the original writ, in which suit
, of , in said county , was indorser for the
said , and of which judgment execution remains to be
done, although a writ of execution has been issued thereon against
said , which has been returned unsatisfied, as of record
appears. We therefore command you to summon the said
to appear at the supreme judicial court to be holden at ,
in said county, on the Tuesday of , to show
cause, if any he has, why the said should not have execu
tion against him for the amount of said judgment ; and make return
of this writ with your doings therein.
Witness , Esquire, the day of ,
Clerk.
Section 1. All original writs and writs of mesne process shall be
served upon individuals fourteen, and upon corporations twenty-
eight days, before the sitting of the court to which the same are returnable.
Sec. 2. Writs of summons, scire facias, and review, shall be served
by reading the same to the defendant, or by giving to him an at-
tested copy thereof, or leaving such copy at his abode ; and if the
writ is brought for dower, a like copy shall be left with the tenant or
occupant of the land whereof the dower is demanded, if there is any.
Sec. 3. When the goods or estate of any person are attached, a
summons in the form prescribed shall be delivered to the defendant,
or left at his abode, with the name and office of the officer serving
the same indorsed by him thereon. ^i'm-309'' "iS:482'
Sec. 4. Every such summons shall set forth the sum in the note
or obligation declared upon, with the indorsements and dates thereof,
the amount of the account, and in all cases shall briefly give to the
defendant the same information which the declaration gives more
at large, and shall contain the substance thereof.
Sec. 5. If the defendant is not an inhabitant of the state, and
the writ is not served on him in person, but his goods or estate are
attached, an attested copy of the writ and of the return of the at-
tachment may be given to him, or left at his abode or with his
agent authorized to appear for him, or with his tenant on or near
the land attached.
Sec. 6. In actions for the recovery of real estate, and in actions
of replevin, covenant, or other local action, when the defendant is
not an inhabitant of the state or his residence is unknown to the
officer having the writ for service, and the writ is not served on the
defendant in person, such copy of the writ, and in case of replevin,
of the return of the goods replevied, may be given or left as pro
vided in the preceding section.
Sec. 7. Writs of review and of scire facias may be served, in case
the defendant is not an inhabitant of the state, on the attorney who
appeared for him in the original action, or by giving or leaving such
copy as provided in section five.
Sec. 8. The giving or leaving such copy in the cases mentioned
in the three preceding sections shall be proved by the certificate,
under oath, of the person by whom it is given or left.
Sec. 9. When the defendant is not an inhabitant of the state, and
no mode of serving the writ is prescribed, or service thereof cannot
be made in the mode prescribed, the action may be entered in court,
and such notice ordered as the case requires ; and notice of the pend
ency of the suit, given according to the order, shall be sufficient
service.
Sec. 10. Service of writs against counties may be made upon one
of the county commissioners and the clerk of the supreme court for
the county ; against cities, upon the mayor or one of the aldermen
and the city-clerk ; against towns, upon one of the selectmen and
the town-clerk ; and against school districts, upon one of the pru
dential committee and the clerk of the district.
Sec. 11. If either of said offices is vacant, the service otherwise
to be made upon the incumbent of such office may be made instead
thereof, upon one of the principal inhabitants of such county, city,
town, or district.
Sec. 12. Service of writs against other corporations may be made
upon the clerk, treasurer, cashier, or one of the directors, trustees,
or managers, if any in the state ; otherwise upon any agent, over
seer, or other person having the care of any of the property, or
charge of any of the business of the corporation, or any principal
member or stockholder thereof.
Sec. 13. In case of a writ against a railroad corporation, service
thereof may be made upon any person doing the business of the cor
poration as ticket-master for the sale of passenger tickets, at any
station upon their railroad.
Sec. 14. Such service shall be made, in the cases mentioned in
the four preceding sections, by an attested copy of the writ or other
process given to or left at the abode of each of said officers, mem
bers, inhabitants, or persons, in the respective cases aforesaid.
Sec. 15. In the return of service of any trustee process against a
corporation, the officer shall set forth the hour when the copy was
given or left.
Section 1. All property, real and personal, which is liable to be
taken in execution, may be attached and holden as security for the
judgment the plaintiff may recover. SlSif06' x^410;
Sec. 2. The following goods and property are exempted from at-
tachmcnt and execution :
I. The wearing apparel necessary for the use of the debtor and
his family.
II. Comfortable beds, bedsteads, and bedding, necessary for the
debtor, his wife, and children.
in. Household furniture to the value of twenty dollars.
iv. The bibles and school books in use in the family.
v. One cow and one and a half ton of hay.
vi. One hog and one pig, and the pork of the same when slaughterecL
vii. Tools of his occupation to the value of fifty dollars.
viii. Six sheep and the fleeces of the same.
ix. One cooking stove and the necessary furniture belonging to
the same.
x. Provisions and fuel to the value of twenty dollars.
xi. The uniform, arms, and equipments of every oflicer and pri
vate in the militia.
xn. The debtor's interest in one pew in any meeting-house in which
he or his family usually worship.
xm. The debtor's interest in one lot or right of burial in any
cemetery.
xiv. One sewing-machine, kept for use by the debtor or his family.
Sec. 3. Real estate may be attached on any writ of mesne pro
cess, by the officer leaving an attested copy thereof and of his re
turn of such attachment thereon at the dwelling-house of the townclerk
of the town in which such real estate is situate, or, if there
is no town-clerk, with the clerk of the supreme court for the county.
Sec. 4. The officer's return is sufficient evidence that such copy
has been so left, and of the time thereof ; but the town-clerk, or clerk
of the court shall certify thereon the time when such copy was re
ceived, and keep the same on file.
Sec. 5. The town-clerk shall keep a general index of all attach
ments made by leaving a copy of the writ of attachment at his dwell
ing house, in which he shall enter at the time of receiving the copy
of the writ on which the attachment is made the day of receiving
the same, the court to which the writ is returnable, and the names
of the plaintiff and defendant in the suit, with the names of the de
fendants alphabetically arranged ; which index shall at all times be
open to public inspection.
Sec. 6. The officer making such attachment shall, at the time of
making the same, pay to the town-clerk the sum of twenty cents,
which shall be in full for his services in receiving and filing the copy,
certifying the time of receiving the same, and entering the attach
ment upon said index.
Sec. 7. By an attachment of real estate, all the debtor's interest
therein is holden to satisfy the judgment, though such interest be
a right of redeeming the same upon a mortgage, or levy, or sale on
execution, or for taxes, or a right to receive a conveyance thereof by
any contract.
Sec. 8. Any creditor attaching his debtor's interest in real estate,
whether such interest be a right of redeeming the same upon mort
gage, or levy, or sale on execution, or for taxes, or a right to receive
a conveyance by virtue of any contract, may, while such right exists,
as well before as after sale thereof on his execution, pay or tender
to the person entitled to the redemption or purchase money the sum
due him ; and upon such payment or tender the interest in such
real estate, under such mortgage, levy, or sale, and the interest of the
contractor in the real estate by him contracted to be conveyed, shall,
as against such attachment and the rights acquired under it, cease.
Sec. 9. Such creditor, or the officer serving the writ, may de
mand of the person entitled to the redemption or purchase money
an account under oath of the amount due him ; and if such account
is not rendered within fifteen days thereafter, or a false account is
rendered, his interest in such real estate shall, as against such at
tachment and the rights acquired under it, cease.
Sec. 10. If, after paymont of the redemption or purchase money,
such attachment is dissolved or the levy under the same is defeated,
the creditor shall be entitled to receive from the person to whom the
payment was made a conveyance of his right to such real estate.
Sec. 11. If such person, being requested to make such conveyance,
and, having his reasonable charges therefor paid or tendered to him,
unreasonably neglects or refuses to make the same, such creditor
may maintain an action of assumpsit against him for the money paid
as aforesaid, with interest. The debtor in such case shall be notified
in writing of such conveyance, neglect, or refusal, and, after such no
tice, shall have the same time for redeeming such real estate that he
had at the time of attachment.
Sec. 12. No attachment of any interest in real estate shall be defeated
by any change in the nature of the debtor's right thereto, as
by redemption of any mortgage or other incumbrance or the execution
to him of any conveyance pursuant to a contract ; but the whole
interest of the debtor, upon such change, shall be holden by the
attachment.
Sec. 13. The share or interest of any person in any corporation
may be attached by the officer, by leaving an attested copy of the
writ and of his return thereon with the clerk, treasurer, cashier,
agent, or person having the care of the property of such corporation,
or at his abode ; and the dividends becoming due afterward shall
be holden by such attachment.
Sec. 14. Pews or seats in meeting-houses or places of public worship
shall be deemed personal property, and may be attached, by
leaving an attested copy of the. writ and of the officer's return
thereon with the town-clerk of the town in which such meeting
house is.
Sec. 15. The franchise of any corporation authorized to receive
tolls, so far as relates to the right to receive tolls, with all the priv-
ileges and immunities belonging thereto, may bo attached by leaving
an attested copy of the writ and of the officer's return thereon with
the clerk, treasurer, or a director of such corporation.
Sec. 16. The officer attaching grain unthrashed, hay, potatoes,
lumber, bark, wood, or other fuel, bricks, stone, lime, gypsum, ore,
manufacturing or other machinery, or hides in the process of tan-
ning, or any building situate on land not belonging to the owner of
the building, may leave an attested copy of the writ and of his re
turn of such attachment thereon as in the attachment of real estate ;
and in such case the attachment shall not bo dissolved or defeated
by any neglect of the officer to retain actual possession of the property.
Sec. 17. Any personal property not exempt from attachment, subject
to any mortgage, pledge, or lien, may be attached as the prop-
erty of the mortgagor, pledgor, or general owner, the attaching
creditor or officer paying or tendering to the mortgagee, pledgee, or
holder the amount for which said property is holden, as ascertained
in the mode provided by the following section.
Sec. 18. Such creditor or officer may demand of the mortgagee,
pledgee, or holder an account, on oath, of the amount due upon the
debt or demand secured by such mortgage, pledge, or lien, and the
officer may retain such property in his custody until the same is
given, without tender or payment ; and if such account is not given
within fifteen days after such demand, or if a false account is given,
such property may be holden discharged from such mortgage, pledge,
or lien.
Sec. 19. Personal property attached shall be sold by the officer
before judgment, if the parties consent thereto in writing ; and such
sale shall be made in the same manner as sales of property taken on
execution, unless a different mode is agreed on by the parties.
Sec. 20. When living animals, or goods liable to perish or waste,
or to be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or which cannot be
kept without great expense, are attached, and the parties do not con
sent to a sale, the officer, on application of either of the parties,
while the attachment continues, and before judgment on which the
plaintiff can take execution, may cause the same to be examined in
the manner following : —
Sec. 21. Three disinterested persons conversant with the nature
and value of such property shall be appointed, one by the officer,
one by the creditor, and one by the debtor. The officer shall ap
point an examiner for the creditor or debtor, in any case where he
might appoint an appraiser for the debtor upon the levy of an exe
cution on real estate.
Sec. 22. The persons so appointed, being sworn to the faithful dis
charge of their duties, shall examine the property, and decide what part of it is such as is described in section twenty, and certify the
same to the officer, and he shall thereupon advertise and sell the
property so certified, in the same manner as if the parties consented
thereto. »
Sec. 23. If the debtor, before such notice of sale, requests any
personal property attached to be restored to him, and the officer shall
not agree with him as to the value thereof, the officer shall cause
three disinterested persons to be appointed and sworn in the man
ner provided in the two preceding sections.
Sec. 24. The officer shall cause a schedule of such property to be
prepared, and the persons so appointed shall appraise the same at
its cash value at that time, and make a certificate of their doings on
such schedule.
Sec. 25. The property so appraised, or the value of which has
been agreed on by the officer and debtor, shall be restored to the
debtor, upon his giving bond to the sheriff, if the attachment is made
by him or his deputy, otherwise to the coroner or constable making
the same in sufficient penalty, with sufficient sureties, conditioned
to pay the appraised or agreed value thereof, or so much as may be
necessary, toward the satisfaction of any executions for the payment
of which the property or its proceeds are holden.
Sec. 26. Property attached shall be deemed to remain in the cus
tody of the officer, so far as to be liable to attachment in the same
manner it would have been if it had remained in his hands specifi
cally, notwithstanding the same may have been sold, or restored to
the debtor, or taken from the officer by a writ of replevin.
Sec. 27. If the property is sold or restored to the debtor as afore
said before the return day of the writ, the officer shall make return
thereon of his doings relating thereto ; and if the same is sold or
restored after the return day, he shall make return thereof to the
court in which the writ is pending on which the first attachment was
made ; and the same shall be filed with said writ.
Sec. 28. The bond taken by the officer, upon the restoration of B
•
the property as aforesaid, shall be returned to said court, and filed
with the writ on which the first attachment was made, as a part of
the record in said case.
Sec. 29. Every bond given by the debtor, on the restoration of
property, and every replevin bond given in case of property attached,
shall be deemed to be given for the benefit of all persons who have
attached or may attach the same, to the full value of the property.
Sec. 30. If such bond is forfeited, any attaching creditor or his
representative may bring a writ of scire fdcicis thereon within two
years after the cause of such action accrues, and not afterward ; and
in such action two or more creditors may join, and separate execu-c-
tions shall be awarded to each for the amounts due to them re
spectively.
Sec. 31. Any party interested may maintain an action of debt on
such bond in the name of the officer to whom the same is payable
within the period above limited; the name of such party shall be
indorsed on the writ, with a statement of his interest, and any other
party may cause his name to be so indorsed at any time, by leave of
court.
Sec. 32. The persons whose names are so indorsed shall be
deemed the plaintiffs for every purpose, and executions shall isSUC
in favor of each for the amounts due them respectively, and against
them for costs, if judgment should be rendered for the defendants
in such action.
Sec. 33. When a judgment is rendered for the defendant, upon
which execution may issue, or when the action is compromised or
dismissed, the attachment made in such action is dissolved thereby.
Sec. 34. Attachments are dissolved by the assent of the plaintiff
to a valid assignment by the defendant of his property for the benefit
of his creditors, or by the death of the defendant, in case his estate
is decreed to be administered as an insolvent estate, but not otherwise,
if the cause of action survives.
Sec. 35. If the attachments on any property are dissolved, and
the same has been sold, the money arising from the sale thereof,
deducting the charges and expenses of sale, shall be restored to the
debtor or his personal representative, upon request, or if the prop
erty has been restored to the debtor on his bond, the said bond shall
be void.
Sec. 36. Property attached shall be holdcn until the expiration of
thirty days from the time of rendering a judgment in the action in
favor of the plaintiff on which he can take execution, and if there
are several attachments the property shall be holden to the creditors
, 1 -t
in the order in which their attachments were made.
Sec. 37. When there are several attachments of the same property,
in different suits, if an action in which a prior attachment was
made shall be continued in court, the plaintiff", in any suit wherein
any subsequent attachment was made may take judgment and exe
cution at any time, and the lien of such subsequent attachment in
its order of priority shall be preserved on said property until the
expiration of thirty days from the rendition of judgment in the suit
wherein the prior attachment was made, and may be enforced by
any execution issued upon said judgment in force at the time of its
levy.
Sec. 38. The proceeds of property sold on any writ, and the
amount secured by bond when property attached is restored to
the debtor, shall be holden to pay the executions issuing in the actions
m ^id* tlie attachments were made, in the order in which they were
made, if demanded by the officer to whom such executions are com
mitted, within thirty' days after judgment is rendered.
^ec. 39. If judgment for the plaintiff is rendered by direction of
*'ie court as °f a previous term, the clerk shall enter of record the
day on which the order of court is dated, and property attached shall
he holden until the expiration of thirty days from that date.
CHAPTER CCVI.
ARRESTS AND BAIL..
Section
1. No fcinalo to be arrested, etc., upon writ on
contract.
2. No person entitled to vote on civil process,
on day of town meeting.
3. Nor officer or soldier while attending to
military duty.
4. Nor executor, etc., for any cause of action
against the deceased.
5. Nor sheriff while in office.
G. Nor any person In real action.
7. Nor on writ in action on contract, unless for
more than thirteen dollars and thirty-three
cents.
8. Nor unless upon affidavit.
Section
9. Defendant, when arrested, may apply to
justices, who may discharge.
10. Or may move the court for discharge.
11. Discharge of person arrested or imprisoned
on execution not to discharge debt,
12. Court may order capias when attachment
insufficient, etc.
13. Upon arrest, defendant to be committed,
unless he gives bail.
14. When committed, may give ball to jailer,
and he to make return.
15. Name and abode of ball to be returned on
writ, etc.
16. Person committed to be detained thirty
days after judgment.
Section 1. No female shall be arrested or imprisoned upon writ
in any action founded on contract.
Sec. 2. No person entitled to vote at any town meeting shall be
arrested upon any civil process on the day on which such meeting is
held.
Sec. 3. No officer or soldier shall be arrested upon any civil pro
cess while going to, returning from, or attending at, any military
exercise or parade, or any court-martial or court of inquiry, which
it is his duty to attend.
Sec. 4. No executor or administrator shall be arrested for any
cause of action against any person deceased.
Sec. 5. No sheriff shall be arrested upon any civil process while
he remains in office.
Sec. G. No person shall be arrested on mesne process in any real
action or action of ejectment.
Sec. 7. No person shall be arrested or imprisoned on any writ in
any action founded on a contract, unless the debt or damage for the
recovery of which such action is brought, exclusive of all costs, shall
exceed the sum of thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents.
Sec. 8. No person shall be arrested upon any writ or execution
founded on a contract, unless the plaintiff or some person in his be
half shall make an affidavit before a justice, on the back of such
writ) that in his belief the defendant is justly indebted to him in a
certain sum exceeding thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents, and
that he conceals his property so that no attachment or levy can be
made, or that there is good reason to believe he is about to leave the
state to avoid the payment of his debts.
Sec. 9. The defendant in such case, when arrested, may require
the officer making the arrest to carry him before two justices, one of
whom shall be of the quorum ; and such justices, upon considering
his affidavit and such evidence as may be laid before them, if they
believe he does not so conceal his property and has no intention to
leave the state, may make an order for his discharge upon the writ
or execution, and he shall be released.
Sec. 10. At the return term of such writ, the defendant may
move the court to be discharged, or that his bail or sureties may be
discharged ; and the court, upon satisfactory evidence that the defondant
does not conceal his property and does not intend to leave
the state, may order such discharge.
Sec. 11. No such discharge, nor any discharge of a person tuvj
rested or imprisoned on execution, shall discharge the debt or judgmcnt
upon which the execution issued.
Sec. 12. In any case when no sufficient attachment has been made
and there is no sufficient bail, the court or any justice thereof, upon
motion and satisfactory evidence that the defendant intends to leave
the state, may order a capias to issue, on which the defendant may
be arrested and held to bail as on an original writ.
Sec. 13. When any person is arrested on mesne process, he shall
be committed to jail, unless he procures one or more persons of sufficient
ability, to the satisfaction of the officer, to become his bail, by
indorsing their names or signatures as bail on the back of the writ.
Sec. 14. Any person committed to jail before judgment, by any
officer, or by his bail, or upon a surrender by his bail in court, shall
be discharged upon procuring one or more persons of sufficient ability,
to the satisfaction of the keeper of the jail, to become his bail, by indorsing
their names or signatures as bail on the back of the copy or
order of court on which such person is detained in jail, and the
jailer shall make return of such copy or order and his doings thereon,
into the court ; and such indorsement and return shall be of the
same force and effect as if made on the original writ.
Sec. 15. The officer taking any person as bail, shall return his
name and place of abode upon the writ, copy, or order of court on
which such person is arrested or detained in prison.
Sec. 16. If any person is committed to prison by the officer or his
bail, or upon surrender by his bail, he shall, unless he is bailed before
the judgment, be held in prison until the expiration of thirty
days after the rendition of sucli judgment for the plaintiff as execution
may issue upon, unless sooner legally discharged.
Section 1. If any defendant on whom process has been duly
served neglects to appear at the court to which the same is returned,
ms default shall be recorded, and judgment shall be rendered against
him for such damages as upon inquiry the plaintiff appears to have
■ • •»
sustained.
Sec. 2. The defendant may be permitted to enter an appearance
after a default, at the discretion of the court or justice, upon the pay-
ment of reasonable costs.
Sec. 3. When no personal service has been made on the defend-
ant, in any action which may be entered without such service, the
court, on suggestion thereof, may order the action to be continued,
and notice to be given of the pendency thereof, by publishing the "
order in such newspaper printed in this state and for such period of
time as the court may therein direct, the last publication to be at
least thirty days before the next term of the court.
Sec. 4. The court may, in their discretion, order such further notice
and in such form, by mail or otherwise, as they think proper,
and upon satisfactory evidence that the order of the court has been
complied with, such notice shall be sufficient.
Sec. 5. In actions before a justice or police court, commenced by
attachment, if no personal service is made upon the defendant by
reason that he resides out of the state, or that his residence is un-C
known to the officer serving the writ, the action shall be continued
not less than sixty days, and the justice shall order notice of the
pendency of such suit to be given, by posting a copy of such order in
two or more public places in the town where the defendant was last
known to be an inhabitant in this state, forty days at least before
the day to which said action is continued.
Sec. 6. If the defendant shall not appear at the time and place to
which such action is continued, judgment shall be rendered on sat-
isfactory evidence that notice has been posted as aforesaid, and cxecution
shall issue thereon, upon the plaintiff's filing with the justice
a bond, with sufficient sureties, to the defendant, to respond the
judgment which the defendant may recover upon a review of said
action.
Sec. 7. Such review may be brought at any time within two years
after the rendition of the judgment, and the plaintiff in such review
may have the benefit of all pleas and advantages which he might
have had in the original action.
Sec. 8. No writ, declaration, return, process, judgment, or other
proceeding in the courts or course of justice, shall be abated, quashed,
or reversed for any error or mistake, where the person or case may
be rightly understood by the court, nor through defect or want of
form or addition only ; and courts and justices may, on motion, orl
J j. • u
der amendment m any such caso.
Sec. 9. Amendments in matters of substance may be permitted
in any action, in any stage of the proceedings, upon such terms as
the court shall deem just and reasonable, but the rights of third persons
shall not be affected thereby.
xvili, 215, 611; xxrriil, 346 ; rf, 197, 420 ; ill, xliii, 35, 313,
xix, 108; xxrvl, 579; xxxix, 393, 028 ; 329; xlii, 25, 70; 409 ; xliv, 525, 589.
Sec. 10. In real actions the writ shall not abate because all the
tenants are not named in it, but those on whom the writ is served
shall answer for such part of the premises demanded as they claim,
and may disclaim for the residue.
Sec. 11. Actions of trover and trespass to real or personal property,
actions against sheriffs or other officers for neglects or misdoings
in office, real actions and actions of ejectment, shall not abate
by reason of the death of either party, but may be prosecuted as
other actions the cause of which survives.
Sec. 12. Actions pending at the death of either party, in which
the right of action does not survive, may be prosecuted to final judg
ment at the election of the surviving party or of the legal represen
tative of the deceased party, as actions may be prosecuted the cause
of which survives.
Sec. 13. When one of two or more plaintiffs or defendants dies,
and the right of action survives, the action may be prosecuted by or
against the surviving parties, such death being suggested on the
record.
Sec. 14. If any female defendant marries pending the action, the
court, upon suggestion thereof, may order notice of such suit to the
husband, and upon evidence that such order has been complied with,
the action may proceed against the husband and wife, in the same
manner as if it had been originally comenced against them.
Sec. 15. No action shall be abated by the marriage of any female
plaintiff, if the hushand, after due notice to be directed by the court,
becomes party to the suit ; in which case the action shall be prose
cuted in the same manner as if it had been originally commenced
by the husband and wife.
Sec. 16. No action shall be abated by the plea that there are other
plaintiffs or defendants who ought to be joined therein, but such per
sons may be made parties to the action upon such terms as the court
shall order ; and may be summoned by scire facias, or notified by
publication in some newspaper, as the court may order ; and the ac
tion shall thereafter proceed as if their names were inserted in the
original writ.
Sec. 17. In all actions where there are two or more defendants,
the plaintiff may amend the writ, before the evidence is closed, by
striking out the name of any defendant, on paying his costs to that
time.
Sec. 18. The court shall order notice to be given, in such man
ner as thoy think fit, of any petition, complaint, libel, application,
or motion in writing, filed therein, and no judgment or decree shall
be rendered thereon without compliance with such order.
Sec. 19. Any application, motion, complaint, libel, or petition, for
any cause of action, may be filed in the clerk's office, in vacation,
and an order of notice issued thereon under the rules of said court.
Section 1. At any time before the return day of the writ the
defendant may tender to the attorney who brought the action the
amount of the debt and costs, and such tender shall be a bar to any
further proceedings in the case.
Sec. 2. In any action, the defendant may file a confession of the
plaintiffs right to recover certain real estate, or a certain amount of
debt or damages, and plead to the residue of his claim ; and if the
plaintiff further prosecutes the action, and fails to recover more than
is so confessed, the defendant shall recover his costs from the date
of such confession.
Sec. 3. No special plea shall be required in a civil action, except
a plea of title to real estate in actions in police and justice courts ;
but any defence may be proved under the general issue, upon a brief
statement thereof being filed in such time as the court may order,
Sec. 4. When the defendant pleads one or more special pleas,
the plaintiff may reply thereto all such matters as may be material
in answer to or avoidance of the matters alleged therein, and for
that purpose may file as many separate replications as the case re
quires.
Sec. 5. If, upon the trial of the issues upon such pleadings, either
party maintains by his evidence such of the matters by him pleaded
as would constitute an answer to or avoidance of the matters pleaded
by the other party, such issue shall be considered to be maintained
by the party producing such evidence, notwithstanding other matters
alleged in his pleadings may not be sustained by the proof.
Sec. 6. In actions for libel or slander, under the general issue,
the defendant may prove, in mitigation of damages and to rebut
evidence of actual malice, that the writing or words complained of
were the repetition of common report, and that the conduct of the
plaintiff was such as to create suspicion of the truth of the matters
therein charged against him.
Sec. 7. If there are mutual debts or demands between the plaintiff
and defendant at the time of the commencement of the plaintiff's
action, one debt or demand may be set off against the other.
469; viii,539; ix, xv, 533; xvi, xxi, 356; xxiv, xxxiii, 310; xliii, 430 ; xllv,
Sec. 8. No debt or demand shall be set off as aforesaid unless a
i»
right of action existed thereon at the commencement of the plain
tiff's action.
Sec. 9. Mutual debts or demands, though contingent, existing
between any person deceased and any other person, when due, may
'je set m actions by or against the administrator.
^EC' ^ *'ie defendant's debt or demand is founded on any
bond or speciality with a penalty, only the amount equitably due shall
be set off.
Sec. 11. The defendant may plead such set-off, or give notice
thereof with the general issue, describing such debt or demand with
the same certainty as is required in a declaration.
gEC- 12. The plaintiff is entitled to one continuance in case of a
^ . , -i • i
set-off, unless a particular statement of such debt or demand, with a
• •
notice that the defendant will set off the same, has been served on
the plaintiff ten days before the sitting of the court.
^EC* ^* Judgment shall be rendered for the balance due to either
of the parties, unless, in cases before justice or police courts, the balance
due to the defendant shall exceed thirteen dollars and thirty-
three cents ; in which cases judgment shall be rendered for costs
only.
Section
1. Form of summons to witness.
CHAPTER CCIX.
WITNESSES.
2. Clerk of court may issue for witness at his
court, and justice at any court.
3. Justice may issue for witness before him
self or otber justice or notary, and before
general court, etc.
4. Justice or notary may issue for witness to
give deposition.
5. Writ of summons served by reading and
paying fees.
C. Witnoss neglecting, etc., to appear, etc.,
liable for damages.
7. Courts may compel attendance of witnesses,
and impose fines for neglect, etc.
8. Upon certificate of clerk of court of another
state, witness may be summoned to go out
of state.
9. Upon refusal or neglect, without cau.se, to
forfeit three hundred dollars.
10. Ceremony in taking oath to be holding up
right hand, but other form may bo used.
11. Persons scrupulous of swearing may afllrm.
J2. No person to be excluded from testifying on
account of his religious opinions.
13. Parties may testify as witnesses.
14. No party compelled to disclose his wit
nesses, etc., nor, in giving deposition, to
produce papers, etc.
Section
15. One p:\rty offering testimony of the other,
IT
is.
may cross-examino.
Party not to testify if adverse party is ad
ministrator, etc., or insane, unless he testi
fies.
But court may allow party to testify when
injustice would be done without it.
When party of record represents adininis-
• trator, etc., adverse party not to testify, un
less.
19. In action by indorsee of note, etc., defendant
not to testify if original party to bill is dead,
21.
etc., unless.
Husband and wife competent to testify for
or against each other.
But not as to conversations, etc., nor any
matter when in violation of marital confi
dence.
May testify for each other when it would
not violate confidence.
Provisions not to apply to attestation ot
wills, etc.
24. Opinions of witnesses competent to judge,
evidence of value of property.
25. Records :ind copies of returns, etc., required
to be filed, evidence as the original.
Section 1. Writs of summons to witnesses shall be substantially
in the form following : —
THE STATE OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
ss. To
[l. s.] You are required to appear at , in the county
of , on the day of , to testify what you know
relating to , then and there
to be heard, in which is
and is
Hereof fail not, as you will answer your default under the penal
ties prescribed by law.
Dated at , the day of ,
(Signed)
Sec. 2. Such writ may be issued by the clerk of any court for witif
. ' j . ,. / .
nesses in any case pending therein, and by a mstice for witnesses in
any case in any court.
Sec. 3. Any justice may issue such writs for witnesses, in cases
pending before himself or any other justice, in all matters before the
general court, or before auditors, referees, arbitrators, or commissioners.
»
Sec. 4. Any justice or notary may issue such writs for witnesses
to appear before himself or any other justice or notary, to give depo-
sitions in any matter or cause in which the same may be lawfully
taken.
Sec. 5. Any person may be summoned to attend and testify Or
give his deposition, by reading to him the writ of summons, and paying
or tendering to him the fees established for his travel to and
from the place where his attendance is required, and for one day's
11 t
attendance.
Sec. 6. If any person so summoned neglects to attend or to give
his attendance so long as may be necessary for the purpose for which
he was summoned, or refuses to testify or to give his deposition if
required, having no reasonable excuse therefor, he shall be liable to
the party aggrieved for all damages sustained thereby.
Sec. 7. Every court, justice, and notary before whom any person
has been summoned to appear and testify or give a deposition, may
bring such person neglecting or refusing to appear or testify or give
his deposition, by attachment, before them, and if, on examination,
he has no reasonable excuse, may fine him not exceeding ten dollars,
if imposed by a justice, notary, or police court, and not exceeding
fifty dollars, if imposed by any other court, and may order him to pay
costs.
Sec. 8. If the clerk of any court in any other of the United
States shall certify that there is a criminal cause pending in such
court, and that a person residing in this state is supposed to be a£
material witness therein, any justice shall, upon such certificate or
paper annexed thereto, issue a summons requiring such witness to
appear and testify at such court.
Sec. 9. If any person on whom such summons is served, having
tendered to him double the fees for travel and attendance of wit-
nesses in the supreme court, shall unreasonably neglect or refuse to
attend and testify at the court in said summons mentioned, he shall
forfeit three hundred dollars, to any person who will sue therefor.
Sec. 10. No other ceremony shall be deemed accessary in swearing
than holding up the right hand, but any other form or ceremony
may ke used which the person to whom the oath is administered
professes to believe more binding upon the conscience,
Sec. 11. Persons scrupulous of swearing may affirm; the word
u ajprm » i)emg uscd m administering the oath, instead of the word
" swear" and the words, " this you do under the pains and penalties
of perjury " instead of the words, " so help you God."
•J «/ ' / it/
Sec. 12. No person who believes in the existence of a supreme
>,
being shall be excluded from testifying on account of his opinions on
matters of religion.
Sec. 13. No person shall be excused or excluded from testifying
or giving his deposition in any civil cause by reason of his interest
therein, as a party or otherwise.
^EC- No party shall be compelled, in testifying or giving a deposition,
to disclose the names of the witnesses by whom nor the
• i ■ i i j. i • ...
manner in which he proposes to prove his own case, nor, in giving a
deposition, to produce any writing which is material to his case or
defence.
Sec. 15. When one party offers the testimony of the nominal or
rea^ adverse party, he is not thereby to be precluded from cross-ex-
amining, contradicting, or impeaching him.
Sec. 16. Neither party shall testily in a cause when the adverse
, j ■ • . . • i
party is an executor, or administrator, or an insane person, unless
the said executor, administrator, or the guardian of the insane party
e'ects to testify, except as provided in the folio whig section.
Sec. 17. When it clearly appears to the court that injustice may
i* » •
be done without the testimony of the party in such case, he may be
allowed to testify ; and the ruling of the court, admitting or rejecfr-
ing his testimony, may be excepted to and revised,
^EC' ^ueu either party of record is not the party in interest,
and the party whose interest is represented by such party of record
jg an execiux)r) administrator, or insane, the adverse party shall not
testify, unless the executor, administrator, or guardian of the insane
person elects to testify himself, or to offer the testimony of such
party of record.
Sec. 19. In any action brought by an indorsee or assignee of a
i*nr t . ' .
bill ol exchange, promissory note, or mortgage against an original
party thereto, the defendant shall not testify in his own behalf, if
cither of the original parties to such bill, note, or mortgage is dead
or insane, unless the plaintiff elects to testify himself or to offer the
testimony of an original party thereto,
^EC- ^ husband and wife are competent witnesses for or
against each other, whether joined as parties or not, in the following
pasPS •
v>".»e» .
I* ^n actions upon policies of insurance, so far as relates to the
amount and value of the property insured.
ii. In actions against common carriers, so for as relates to the
loss, amount, and value of the property in question.
IH' ^n actious in which the subject matter of the controversy
uaPPenc(l or arose before the marriage.
iv. In actions for personal injuries to the wife, or for damages to
the husband on account of such injuries.
Sec. 21. The preceding section shall not be so construed as to
render competent the testimony of a husband or wife for or against
each other as to any statement, conversation, letter, or other commuuication
made by either of them to the other or to any other
person ; nor as to other matters when it appears to the court that
the examination of either as a witness in relation thereto would
lead to a violation of marital confidence.
Sec. 22. The wife may testify for the husband or the husband for
the wife in any case, when it appears to the court that their oxamination
as witnesses upon the points to which their testimony is of-
fered would not lead to such violation of confidence.
Sec. 23. The provisions of this chapter shall not affect the law
relative to the attestation of wills or other instruments required to
be attested by subscribing witnesses.
Sec. 24. The opinions of witnesses as to the value of any real
estate, goods, or chattels may be received as evidence thereof, when
it appears to the court that they are qualified to judge of such value.
Sec. 25. The record of any return, list, or other document re-
quired by law to be filed or recorded in any public office, or a copy
thereof certified by the proper officer, shall be evidence in any case
where the original would be evidence, and in actions in which either
party is a member of the corporation by whose officer such return is
made.
CHAPTER CCX.
DEPOSITIONS.
Sectiox
1. The deposition of any witness may be taken
and used, unless witness produced.
2. Justice, notary, commissioner, etc., may
take depositions.
3. Notice to adverse party, if in the Btate or
within twenty mUeB.
4. If out of state, etc., to his attorney.
5. No perBon such attorney unless he has in
dorsed writ or entered appearance, etc.
6. No person to act as magistrate who would
be disqualified as juror, etc.
Sscroh
7. Witness to subscribe deposition, make
oath, etc.
8. Magistrate to certify oath, time and place
of taking, action, court, etc.
9. Copy of notice, etc., to be annexed to certi
ficate.
10. Party neglecting to take, after giving no
tice, to pay costs, etc.
11. Depositions to be sealed np, directed to the
court, etc.
Section 1. The deposition of any witness in a civil cause may be
taken and used at the trial, unless the adverse party procures him to
attend, so that he may be called to testify when the deposition is of
fered.
Sec. 2. Any justice or notary public in the state, any commis
sioner appointed under the laws of the state to take depositions in
other states, any judge, or justice of the peace, or notary public, in
any other state or country, may take such deposition.
Sec. 3. The party proposing to take such deposition shall cause a
notice in writing, signed by a justice or notary, stating the day,
hour, and place of taking the same, to be delivered to the adverse
party or one of them, or left at his abode, if either of such parties
reside in this state, or within twenty miles of the place of taking or
of the party taking the same, a reasonable time before the taking
thereof.
Sec. 4. If such adverse party resides out of the state, or more
than twenty miles from the place of caption or from the party pro
posing to take such deposition, a like notice, given to the agent or
attorney of such adverse party, or left at his abode, shall be sufficient.
Sec. 5. No person shall be deemed an agent or attorney for this
purpose, unless he has indorsed the writ or the summons to be left
with the defendant in the cause, or appeared for his principal before
the court, justice, referees, or arbitrators, where the action is pend
ing, or given notice in writing that he is such attorney or agent.
Sec. 6. No person shall write the testimony of any witness, or act
as magistrate in taking the same, who would be disqualified to act
as a juror on the trial of the cause, for any reason except exemp
tion from service as a juror.
Sec. 7. Every witness shall subscribe his deposition, and shall
make oath that the same contains the truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth, relative to the cause for which it was
taken.
Sec. 8. The magistrate taking such deposition shall certify such
oath, with the time and place of taking the deposition, the case and
court in which it is to be used, that the adverse party was, or was
not present, was or was not notified, and that he did or did not
object.
Sec. 9. A copy of the notice left with the adverse party, his agent,
or attorney, with the return of the officer or affidavit of the person
leaving such notice thereon, stating the time of leaving the same,
shall be annexed to the caption of the deposition, when the adverse
party does not attend.
Sec. 10. If any party, after giving notice to the adverse party as
aforesaid, neglects or refuses to take a deposition, such adverse party
may recover twenty-five cents a mile for actual travel of himself or
his attorney to attend the same, by action on the case, unless sea
sonably notified in writing, signed by the party giving such notice,
that such deposition will not be taken.
Sec. 11. Depositions so taken shall be sealed up by the magis
trate taking the same, directed to the court or justice before whom
they are to be used, with a brief description of the case, and shall
be so delivered into court.
Section 1. Depositions in perpetual remembrance of any fact or
transaction may be taken before a court of record, or before two
justices, one of whom shall be of the quorum. If the depositions
relate to the burning, destruction, or loss of any public files or rec
ords, the same shall be taken by the supreme court or a commis
sioner appointed by said court.
Sec. 2. Any person desiring to take such deposition shall present
his petition to such court or justices in writing, under oath,
briefly setting forth his interest in the subject, and the facts to which
the desired testimony relates, the names of all persons supposed
to be interested therein, and, if the fact be so, that the names or
residences of such parties interested are unknown, and the names
of the witnesses proposed to be examined.
Sec. 3. Notice of the time and place of taking such depositions
shall be given by such court, commissioner, or justices to all parties
known to be interested in the property or transaction to which
the testimony relates, in the manner provided by law in cases of depositions
taken to be used in actions pending ; and such notice shall
contain or be annexed to a copy of the petition for the taking of
such depositions.
Sec. 4. If the name or residence of any party interested is un-
known, such notice shall be published three weeks successively in
the newspaper printed in Concord in which sales of lands of non
residents for taxes are required to be published, and in some news
paper printed in the county, and a like notice shall be posted in some
public place in the shire-town of the county in which the lands lie ;
such publication being commenced at least eight weeks before the
time of taking.
Sec. 5. All such depositions shall be written, signed, and sworn
to as provided in case of depositions in actions pending, with the
necessary variation in the form of the oath ; and the said court, com-
missioner, or justices shall annex to such depositions a certificate of1
the time and place of taking, the name of the person at whose re
quest they were taken, and of all who were notified to attend and
did attend, and a copy of the notice and evidence of the service
thereof.
Sec. 6. If the depositions taken relate to the records of any court
or public office, the same, with all the proceedings connected there-
with, shall be filed of record in such court or office.
Sec. 7. If such depositions relate to any real estate or transaction
connected therewith, said petition, depositions, certificate, notice, and
evidence of service shall, within ninety days from the taking thereof,
be recorded in the registry of deeds of the county where such estate
lies ; and such depositions taken in any case may be so recorded,
Sec. 8. Depositions so taken in perpetual remembrance may be
used in the trial of any cause wherein the matters concerning which
they were taken are drawn in question; and in case said depositions
shall be lost or out of the possession and control of the party
desiring to use the same, a copy of such record may be used.
CHAPTER CCXII
AUDITORS AND TRIALS.
Section
1. When investigation of accounts, etc., re
quired, auditor may be appointed.
2. And in actions between copartners or co-
tenants.
3. Auditor to be sworn, give notice, hear par
ties, and report.
4. May be discharged by court, and others ap
pointed, etc.
5. If either party neglects to appear, etc.,
auditor to certify.
6. And Judgment to be rendered as upon non
suit or default.
7. Compensation to be paid to auditor by
plaiutiiV. etc.
Section
8. Upon report, either party may elect Jury
trial, etc.
9. Jury to be impanelled for each cause by
drawing.
10. Each party entitled to two peremptory
challenges.
11. Court to prescribe mode of drawing and
challenging.
12. In actions involving questions of right to
real estate, etc., court may direct view by
jury.
13. Costs of view subject to adjudication of
court.
14. When trial of facts to be had on bill in
equity, etc., issues to be made and entered.
Section 1. When an investigation of accounts or an examina
tion of vouchers is necessary, in any action pending in the supreme
court, they may appoint one or more auditors to state the account
between the parties and make report to the court.
xxvi, 20; xxviii, 360, 561; xxxii, 376; xxxv, 92; xxxvi, 455; xxxix, 431 ; xliv, 354.
Sec. 2. Auditors may be appointed in actions brought by copartr
ners or cotenants against their copartners or cotenants.
Sec. 3. Auditors shall be sworn, and shall give notice to the par
ties of the time and place of hearing, may adjourn when necessary,
and shall all hear the parties ; but a majority may report.
Sec. 4. Auditors may be discharged by the court, and others ap
pointed, or their report may be recommitted for revision.
Sec. 5. If either party neglects or refuses to appear before the
auditor, or to render an account, or to produce such books and pa
pers, and to answer, on oath, such interrogatories relating to the
matter in controversy as may be pertinent and material, the auditor
may certify the same to the court.
Sec. b*. The court shall thereupon render judgment against such
party, as upon nonsuit or default, and if necessary, cause the dam
ages to be assessed by the jury.
Sec. 7. The court shall allow a reasonable compensation to the
auditor, which shall be paid by the plaintiff, and taxed in his bill of
costs, if he recover.
Sec. 8. Upon the report of an auditor, either party may elect to
try the cause by the jury, and upon such trial the report shall be
given in evidence, subject to be impeached by either party.
139; xxxvi, 455; xxiv, 131; xl, 537; xliii, 52,62.
Sec. 9. A jury shall be impanelled for the trial of every cause to
•
be tried in that mode, to be drawn from the whole number of jurors
in attendance not engaged in another cause.
Sec. 10. Each party in the trial of a civil cause is entitled, in addition
to challenges for cause, to two peremptory challenges of jurors
drawn for the trial.
Sec. 11. The supreme court may, by general rules or special or-
der, prescribe tbe mode of drawing and impanelling the jury, and of
exercising the right of peremptory challenge, as may be required to
carry into effect the provisions of the two sections preceding.
Sec. 12. In the trial of actions involving questions of right to real
estate, or in which the examination of places or objects may aid the
jury in understanding the testimony, the court, on motion of either
party, may, in their discretion, direct a view of the premises by the
jury, under such rules as they may prescribe.
Sec. 13. The costs of such view shall be subject to such adjudi-
cation, as to the whole or any part thereof, as the court may deem
equitable.
Sec. 14. When, in a bill in equity or other proceeding pending
in the supreme court at a law term, any question of fact is to be
tried by a jury, proper issues shall be made under the direction of
the court, and entered at the next trial term for the county, and the
verdict thereon shall be certified by the clerk and filed of record in
the cause.
CHAPTER CCXIII.
JUDGMENTS.
SF.criox
1. Judgments for debt, etc., to be in dollars
and cents, and interest to be added.
2. Interest to be at rate of six per cent., unless
lower rate agreed.
3. If higher rate taken, three times amount
of excess forfeited.
4. No contract invalid for higher rate, but
money loaned, etc.. may be recovered.
5. Tliis chapter not to apply to letting of cattle,
nor to maritime contracts.
6. In real action, defendant in possession bIx
years under supposed title may claim Im
provements.
7. If verdict for plaintiff, jury to find valuo of
improvements.
Section
8. Judgment to be, if plaintiff pay for Improve
ments, writ of possession to issue.
9. In actions for penalty, etc., judgment to bo
for amount equitably due.
10. If condition be for several things or differ
ent persons, judgment to be for whole
penalty, but execution for what is due.
11. On scire facia* other executions may issue.
12. In suits on mortgages, judgment to be, if
defendant pays in two months, no writ to
issue.
13. Court may permit copies to be filed for
Judgmout.
11. Copies attested by j>arties, valid as to pro
ceedings as if proi>erly certified.
Section 1. Judgments for debt, damages, or costs shall be ren
dered in dollars and cents; and in rendering judgment for the debt
or damages found by verdict, report of an auditor, or otherwise, in
terest shall be added from the time of such finding to the rendition
of judgment.
Sec. 2. In rendering judgments, and in all business transactions
where interest is paid or secured, it shall be computed and paid at
the rate of six dollars on a hundred dollars
lower rate is expressly stipulated.
for one year, unless a
J '
Sec. 3. If any person, upon any contract, receives interest at a
higher rate than six per cent., he shall forfeit three times the sum so
received in excess of said six per cent., to the person who will sue
therefor.
Sec. 4. No contract shall be rendered invalid by reason of the se
curing therein or thereby, or the paying or receiving thereon, a
higher rate of interest than as aforesaid ; but the money secured
thereby, and actually advauced or loaned thereon, may be recovered,
with interest at six per cent.
Sec. 5. Nothing in this chapter shall extend to the letting of cat
tle, or other usages of like nature in practice among farmers, or to
maritime contracts, as bottomry, insurance, or course of exchange, as
heretofore used.
Sec. 6. Any person against whom any action is brought for the
recovery of real estate may, with his plea, file a brief statement,
setting forth that he and the persons under whom he claims have
been in the actual peaceable possession thereof, under a supposed
legal title, for more than six years before the action was commenced,
and that the value thereof has been increased by them by buildings
or other improvements.
Sec. 7. The jury, if they find a verdict for the plaintiff, shall de
termine if the said lands have been so possessed and improved, and
the amount of the increased value thereof, after allowing for any
waste or injury the same may have sustained.
Sec. 8. The judgment rendered for the plaintiff, upon such verdict,
shall be conditioned, that if the plaintiff shall within one year pay
to the clerk of the court, for the use of the defendant, the amount
of the increased value so found, a writ of possession shall issue for
the plaintiff; otherwise all his right to sucli lands shall be barred.
Sec. 9. In actions for the recovery of any penalty or forfeiture,
in any recognizance in a civil case, or in any obligation or contract
under seal, the court shall render judgment for such amount as is
equitably due, or as will indemnify the plaintiff for the damages
sustained by the breach of the condition.
Sec. 10. If such penalty or forfeiture is designed to secure the
performance of several things to be done at different times, or as
security to or for the use of several persons, judgment shall be ren
dered for the whole of such penalty or forfeiture, and the court shall
award execution only for so mucli as is justly due at that time.
Sec. 11. The plaintiff or his administrator, and any other persons
interested, may, from time to time, have scire facias upon such
judgment, and execution shall be awarded them for any further sums
which may be equitably due.
Sec. 12. In actions on mortgages, the judgment shall be condi
tional, that if the mortgagor or person having his right pays to the
mortgagee or person having his right the sum the court shall ad
judge due, within two months after judgment rendered, with interest,
such judgment shall be void ; otherwise a writ of possession shall
issue.
Sec. 13. Any court may permit copies of any note or instrument
to be filed in any suit pending therein, for the purpose of rendering
judgment thereon.
Sec. 14. When in any judicial proceeding a copy of a writ, plead
ing, case, or other writing or document is necessary, a copy thereof,
certified as such by the contending parties in such proceeding or by
their attorneys, may be used, and shall, as to such proceeding and
the parties thereto, and all persons claiming under them, be as ef
fectual as a copy thereof attested by the proper certifying officer.
CHAPTEE CCXIV.
COSTS.
Section
1. Costi to follow event of every action, otc.
2. Court may limit, allow, or deny costs, and
require security.
3. In supreme court costs limited if no expec
tation of recovering more than thirteen dol
lars and thirty-three cents.
4. In trespass, defamation, etc., no cosLs unless
damages exceed thirteen dollars and thirty-
three cents.
5. In trespass, when title not in question, costs
limited if damages do not exceed thirteen
dollars and thirty-three cents.
6. In real actions, defendant disclaiming whole
Section
to have costs, unless plaintiff maintains his
writ as to part.
7. No costs In suits on judgments if execution
equally available.
8. When plaintiff brings several actions which
might have been joined, costs to be limited.
9. Plaintiff neglecting to enter action liable
for costs.
10. If plaintiff non-suit, defendant to have
Judgment for costs.
11. Defendant prevailing in civil suit by state
to have costs from county.
Section 1. Costs shall follow the event of every action or peti-
'
tion, unless otherwise directed by law or by the court.
50.1; xv, 106; 188, 380; xxiii, xxx, 492, 531 ; xxxii, 408; xxxvi,430; xli, 238; xliii,
xix, 399; xxi,50, 193; xxviil, 73; xxxi, 3!>3, 413; xxxv, 88, 286; xxxviii, 88; 134; xliv, 18.
Sec. 2. In all actions or petitions in the supreme court, costs may,
on motion and good cause shown, be limited, allowed, and such security
therefor ordered, as the court may deem just.
Sec. 3. In actions commenced in the supreme court, if it appears
that the plaintiff had no reasonable expectation of recovering more
than thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents, the court may limit the
costs to such sum as they think just. j^&JMSJ' g2; SiSfSb; xi, 157.
Sec. 4. No more costs than damages shall be recovered in any
action of trespass to the person, or for malicious prosecution, or defa-
mation of character, commenced in the supreme court, unless the
damages recovered exceed thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents.
Sec. 5. In actions of trespass to real estate commenced in the supreme
court, when the title of real estate is not in question, the
court shall allow so much cost as they think just, not exceeding the
damages recovered in case they do not exceed thirteen dollars and
thirty-three cents.
Sec. 6. In real actions, the defendant who disclaims the whole of
the demanded premises shall recover costs, unless the plaintiff maintains
his writ as to some part thereof.
Sec. 7. No costs shall be allowed the plaintiff in any action upon
a judgment, if he could have availed himself of an execution thereon
as advantageously for the collection thereof as he could of such
infirm
aCtl0n- .
Sec. 8. When a plaintiff at one term brings diverse actions against
the same party which might have been joined, or brings more than
one action upon a joint and several contract, the court may allow
sucn an<l s0 many bills of cost as they think just.
^EC- ^' If the plaintiff neglects to enter any action in which pro
cess has been served on the defendant, judgment shall be rendered
against him on complaint for costs.
^EC- 1^. ^ the plaintiff, after entry of any action, becomes non-
su^' defendant shall have judgment against him for costs,
Sec. 11. In civil actions in which the state is plaintiff, if the de-
fendant prevails, he shall have judgment for costs against the county
where the judgment is rendered.
CHAPTEK CCXV
reviews and new trials.
Section
1. Civil actions may be once reviewed.
2. Must be had in one year after Judgment.
3. When party pro]w>ses to review, to tile notice
and order, or writ of review to issue.
4. Order to be served on party or attorney
fourteen days.
5. New trial may be granted in case of acci
dent, etc.
0. Petition therefor to supreme court, and
notice.
7. Costs to either party on petition, and terms
as court may order.
8. Petition for new trial to be in three years.
Section
9. Action to bo brought forward and tried as if
no judgment.
10. Amendment of writ, etc., may be allowed.
11. If damages increased, judgment for plain
tiff for increase and costs— if reduced, for
defendant for reduction and costs.
12. If plaintiff reviews, elc., and damages not
increased, coststo defendant — if defendant,
and not reduced, costs to plaintiff.
13. No costs except accruing in review, etc.,
and no more costs than increase or reduc
tion, etc.
11. Executions not stayed by review, etc., but
court may order stay.
Section 1. Civil actions in the supreme court, in which an issue
has been joined and judgment rendered, except in cases otherwise
provided, and such actions in which judgment has been rendered by
agreement of parties open to review, may be once reviewed.
Sec. 2. No such review shall be had after one year from the time
of judgment rendered, saving to infants and insane persons the right
of such review for one year after such disability is removed.
Sec. 3. When either party proposes to review, he shall file, in the
office of the clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered,
a notice that he desires such review, and the clerk shall issue an
order to the adverse party, requiring him to appear at the next term
and prosecute or answer to such review, or a writ of review may be
issued by said clerk, returnable at said term.
Sec. 4. Such order shall be served upon said adverse party, by an
attested copy, delivered to him or his attorney or left at the abode
of such party or attorney, fourteen days at least before said term.
Sec. 5. A new trial may be granted in any case where a review
may not be had of right, when justice has not been done, through
accident, mistake, or misfortune, and a further hearing would be
equitable.
Sec. 6. In such case a petition shall be presented to the supreme
court, in the county where the judgment was rendered, by any per
son interested, setting forth the reasons for such new trial, and such
notice given to the adverse party or his attorney as the court may
order.
Sec. 7. Costs may be allowed to either party upon such petition,
and the new trial may be granted upon such terms as the court deem
just. " '
Sec. 8. Such new trial shall not be granted unless the petition is
filed within three years after the rendition of the judgment complained
of, or the failure of the suit.
Sec. 9. When such new trial is granted, or an order or writ of
review is served and returned, the action shall be brought forward
on the docket of the court, at the term next after granting the new
trial or service of the order or writ of review, and shall be tried as
if no judgment had been rendered therein.
Sec. 10. Amendments of the writ, pleadings, or other process, on
such review or new trial, may be allowed upon such terms as the
court deem just.
Sec. 11. If the amount of property, debt, or damages, recovered
by the plaintiff in the action, is increased on such review or new
trial, he shall have judgment for the excess and costs ; if such
amount is reduced, the defendant shall have judgment for the
amount of the reduction and costs.
Sec. 12. If the plaintiff in the action reviews or procures the new
trial, and does not recover a greater amount of property, debt, or
damages, the defendant shall recover costs; if the defendant reviews
or procures the new trial, and such amount is not reduced, the
plaintiff shall recover costs.
Sec. 13. No costs shall be recovered, upon such review or new
trial, except those accruing therein ; and the party reviewing or procuring
the new trial shall recover no more costs than the amount of
the increase or reduction of property, debt, or damages therein, un
less the original judgment is wholly reversed.
Sec. 14. Execution on the original judgment shall not be stayed
by reason of such review or new trial, but the court, on motion, in
their discretion, may order a stay of execution upon such terms as
they think fit.
Section 1. No execution shall issue until the expiration of
twenty-four hours after judgment rendered.
Sec. 2. Executions issued by the supreme court may be made
returnable at the next regular term, if within six months, otherwise
within six months from their date.
gEC- 3, The court may, on motion, order an execution to be made
returnable at a term subsequent to the next regular term.
Sec. 4. Any justice of the supreme court, in vacation, on application,
and notice to the debtor, may order the return day of any exe-
cution issued by said court to be changed to a subsequent term or
time, which order shall be recorded upon the clerk's record of the
judgment and execution.
Sec. 5. Executions issued by police and justice courts may be
made returnable within sixty days from their date.
Sec. 6. Executions may be issued at any time within two years
after judgment rendered, or after the return day of the former exCClltion.
Sec. 7. The court may award execution on any judgment after
the expiration of said two years, upon scire facias, for the amount
then due. '
Sec. 8. Where several judgments are rendered upon the same
contract at the same term, only one execution shall be issued on
said judgments at one time, except by order of the court.
Sec. 9. When an execution does not run against the body of the
defendant, the form may be varied by omitting such parts as relate
to the arrest of the person.
Sec. 10. Interest is payable on executions in civil actions from
the time of judgment rendered.
Sec. 11. Whenever a debtor is committed to prison on execution,
the creditor, on the return thereof, may have a further execution
against the property of the debtor, notwithstanding the debtor is not
discharged; and upon the satisfaction of such execution the debtor
shall be discharged.
Sec. 12. Writs of execution shall be substantially in the follow«
»
ing iorm : —
THE STATE OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
ss. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy :
[l. s.] Whereas, , of , by the consideration of our
justices of our court of holden at ,in said county of
on the Tuesday of recovered judgment
against , of , for the sum of dollars, and
costs taxed at , as appears of record, wbereof execution re
mains to be done. We command you, therefore, that of the goods,
chattels, or lands of the said debtor, in your precinct, you cause to
be levied and paid to the said creditor the aforesaid sums with law
ful interest thereon, and more for this writ and your own
fees, and in default thereof to arrest the said debtor and commit him
to jail ; and the keeper of such jail is required to detain him in cus
tody until he pays the same, with your fees, or until he is discharged
by the creditor or otherwise according to law ; and make return of
this writ, with your doings thereon, to said court, to be holden at
, in said county, upon the Tuesday of
Witness, , Esquire, the day of ,
Clerk.
Sec. 13. Writs of possession shall be substantially in the follow-
ing form: —
THE STATE OP NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
S8. To the sheriff of any county or his deputy :
[l. s.] Whereas,
justices of our court of
, on the
of
ment against
, of , by the consideration of our
holden at , in said county
Tuesday of , recovered judg-
, of , for a certain , with the
appurtenances, situate in the town of , and costs taxed at
, as appears of record. We command you, therefore, that
without delay you cause said to have possession of the
said premises: We also command you that of the goods, chattels,
or lands of the said debtor in your precinct, you cause to be levied
and paid to said creditor the aforesaid sum, with lawful interest
thereon, and more for this writ and your own fees, and in
default thereof to arrest the said debtor and commit him to jail ;
and the keeper of the jail is required to detain him in custody until
he pays the same, with your fees, or until he is discharged by the
creditor, or otherwise, according to law ; and make return of this
writ, witli your doings thereon, unto said court, to be holden at
in said county, upon the day of ,
Witness Esquire, the day of ,
Clerk.
^EC- -^meiltunents °f *ne returns of officers deceased, upon
executions, writs, or other process, may be made, by order of the
supreme court, by the sheriff, if the defective return was made by
one of his deputies and such sheriff is living, otherwise by the clerk
of said court, for such deceased officer.
Sec. 15. Executions, in which the creditor in one is debtor in the
other in the same right and capacity, shall be set off by the officer
to whom one of said executions is delivered and the other may be
tendered, and such officer shall return both said executions satisfied,
so far as such set>off will extend.
Sec. 16. When proceedings, in the levy of an execution on real
or personal property, are stayed by injunction, the lien then exist
ing shall continue until the expiration of thirty days after the in
junction is dissolved.
Sec. 17. If proceedings in such levy arc commenced before such
injunction, the same may be resumed within said thirty days aud
completed, or new proceedings may be commenced within said time,
and completed in the same manner as if the judgment had been ren
dered at the time of said dissolution.
Section 1. Money may be taken on execution, and paid to the
creditor ; bank notes and other evidences of debt, issued by any
moneyed corporation and circulated as money, may be taken on execution,
and paid to the creditor at their par value, if he will accept
of them ; otherwise they may be sold at auction like other chattels.
Sec. 2. Goods and chattels taken on execution shall be safely
kept by the officer, at the expense of the debtor, four days at least ;
shall be advertised for sale, by posting notices of the time and place
of sale at two of the most public places in the town where the sale
• x_ e x 1 ±\. _ • _ ■ j r j
is to be, forty-eight hours before the expiration of said four days,
and sold at auction to the highest bidder.
Sec. 3. Personal property subject to any mortgage, pledge, or lien
may be taken in execution in the same manner it may be attached,
and may be sold in the same manner as other personal property;
and the creditor and officer shall have the same right to demand an
account of the amount due, and to hold the same, if no account or
a false account is given, as in case of an attachment.
Sec. 4. The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the sum
paid or tendered to the mortgagee, pledgee, or holder, and interest,
and the residue to the satisfaction of the execution on which the same
is holden.
Sec. 5. The debtor's right' to redeem such property may be taken
on execution, and sold as in other cases, without such payment or
tender.
Sec. 6. The owner may redeem any goods and chattels before the
sale, by otherwise satisfying the execution and the officer's fees and
charges.
Sec. 7. The money arising from any sale of personal property
shall be applied by the officer to the payment of the charges and the
satisfying of the executions levied thereon, in the order in which the
attachments thereon, if any, were made ; otherwise in the order in
which the executions were delivered to him ; and the balance shall
be returned to the debtor, upon request,
Sec. 8. The officer shall make return of the execution according
to its precept, with his doings thereon, particularly describing the
g00(is and chattels taken and sold, and the sum for which each arti
cle was sold.
Sec. 9. If any officer is guilty of any fraud in the sale or return,
he shall be liable to each party injured to pay him five times the
sura defrauded.
Sec. 10. The officer may adjourn any sale under this chapter from
time to time, not exceeding ten days at one time or sixty days from
the seizure, giving the same notice of the adjournment as of a sale.
^EC> 1>CWS or seats m meeting-houses may be taken, advertised,
and sold on execution in the same manner as other personal
property, except that if there has been no previous attachment the
debtor shall be notified by the officer of the time and place of sale
of such pew or seat, by giving to him a notice in writing, or leaving
such notice at his abode, if he resides in the town, otherwise with
the town-clerk ; and the time of giving or leaving such notice shall
be deemed the time of taking such property.
Sec. 12. The franchise of any corporation authorized to take
tolls may be taken and sold on execution at auction, the officer giv-
n0^ce 0f the time and place of sale by posting a notice thereof
a* auF toll-house at which such tolls are or have been usually taken,
and causing a like notice, with the name of the creditor and the
amount of the execution, to be posted at two or more public places
in the town in which any toll-house of said corporation is situate, at
least thirty days before the day of sale,
Sec. 13. The person who will pay such execution and the lawful
fees and expenses thereon, for the right to receive all such tolls for
the shortest period, shall be the highest bidder, and shall, upon such
sa^e' De entitled to the possession of the toll-houses and gates of the
corporation, to be delivered by the officer, and entitled to receive all
such tolls for the term of his purchase, with all the rights of the
corporation in relation thereto.
Sec. 14. The rights and obligations of the corporation, except as
to such tolls, shall not be affected by such sale, and they may redeem
sucn franchise by paying the purchaser the amount paid by him
therefor, with twelve per cent, interest thereon, at any time within
three months from such sale.
^EC' suares or interest of any person in any corporation
may be taken on any execution, in the same manner they may be
attached.
Sec. 16. Notice in writing of the time and place of sale of such
shares or interest shall be given by the officer to the debtor, or left
at h'3 abode, and posted at one or more public places in the town
where the sale is to be, and in two adjoining towns, thirty days be
fore the sale.
Sec. 17. If the debtor does not reside in the county, the posting
„ , ,. .. , . ,. , . j ii- v
ot such notice as prescribed in the preceding section, and publishbig
such notice in some newspaper, if any in the county, otherwise
jn ail adjoining county, three weeks previous to the sale, shall be
sufficient, without further notice to the debtor.
Sec. 18. The officer shall cause an attested copy of the execution
and of his return thereon to be filed with the clerk, treasurer, or
cashier of the corporation, and pay for the recording thereof ; and
the purchaser shall thereupon be entitled to such shares or interest,
and the income or dividends become due thereon since the attachment,
and to such certificates as are the usual evidence of the shares
or interest of a proprietor in such corporation.
Sec. 19. The officer of every corporation having the care of the
records or accounts of the shares or interests of the corporators
therein, shall, on request and on the exhibition of a writ of attach-
ment or execution against any person interested in such corporation,
give to the officer having such writ a certificate of the number of his
shares or amount of his interest therein, with the numbers of the
shares or other description by which they are distinguished ; and on
neglect or refusal to give such certificate, or if he shall wilfully give
any false certificate thereof, he shall be liable to pay to the creditor
the whole amount of his demand against such debtor, to be recovered
by an action of debt.
Sec. 20. If any officer of a corporation shall, on request of an
officer and on exhibition of such writ of attachment or execution,
refuse or neglect to exhibit to him such records and documents in
his keeping as maybe useful to direct and assist him in the discharge
of his duty, he shall forfeit twenty dollars to the officer, and
shall be answerable for all damages sustained by any person thereby.
CHAPTER CC XVIII.
LEVY OF EXECUTIONS ON REAL ESTATE.
Section
1. All real estate, except the homestead right,
may b© set off on execution.
2. Three appraisers to bo appointed and
Bworn, otc.
3. If debtor neglects to appoint, or not resi
dent in county, officer to apixrtnt appraiser
for him.
4. If debtor a corporation, notice to clerk, etc.,
sufficient.
5. Levy commenced by swearing appraiser
may be completed before return day.
C. Appraisers to set ofi' laud by metes and
bounds, etc.
7. If estate in common, etc., undivided Interest
may be set off.
8. If estate cannot be divided by metes and
bounds, undivided interest, etc., set off".
9. In such case whole estate to be described by
metes and bounds, etc.
10. Kent or income for term of years may be set
off.
11. Officer to deliver seizin to creditor, and re
turn his doings, etc.
Section
12. All debtor's interest to pass by levy.
13. Debtor may redeem by payment hi one
jcar, etc.
14. When nmount of set-off greater by mistake
than execution, debtor to pay amount due.
15. If debtor pays amount set off in such case,
may recover back excess.
16. If debtor does not redeem, may recover ex
cess of set off.
17. When such excess set off, court, on petition,
may determine amount and issue execution
therefor.
18. Upon payment of excess, title under levy
made valid.
19. When parties do not agree upon amount to
be paid to redeem, proceedings as in case of
mortgage.
20. Debtor may, at his election, pay without
deducting rents and profits, and sue there
for.
21. When estato redeemed, creditor to release
right under levy.
Section 1. All real estate, except the homestead right, may be
taken on execution, and shall be appraised and set off to the cred-
itor at its just value, in satisfaction of sucli execution and the cost
of levying, except in cases where a sale of it is authorized.
Sec. 2. The officer levying such execution shall cause three ap
praisers to be appointed, one by the creditor, one by the debtor, and
one by himself, who shall be discreet and disinterested men, resi
dent in the county, and shall be sworn by a justice impartially to
appraise such real estate as shall be shown them as the estate of the
debtor.
Sec. 3. If the debtor, on due notice, neglects to appoint an ap
praiser, or does not reside in the county or within twenty miles of
the property to be appraised, the officer shall appoint an appraiser
for him.
Sec. 4. Notice given to the clerk, treasurer, agent, or one of the
directors of a corporation to choose an appraiser for the corporation,
ten days before the levy, shall be legal notice to the corporation.
Sec. 5. A levy commenced by the appointment and swearing of
one or more of the appraisers may be completed before the return
day of the execution.
Sec. 6. Such appraisers shall set off to the creditor, by metes and
bounds or other distinct description, the real estate appraised by
them, or so much as may be necessary in payment of the execution
and costs of levying.
Sec. 7. If such real estate is holden jointly or in common with
others, the levy shall be made upon the undivided interest of the
debtor or a part thereof.
Sec. 8. If such real estate cannot, in the judgment of the ap
praisers, be divided and set out by metes and bounds without greatly
impairing the value of the whole, the levy may be made upon an
undivided interest therein, or by such mode of division as the nature
of the property will admit.
Sec. 9. In either of the cases aforesaid, the whole of the property
of which part shall be set off shall be described by metes and bounds
or other distinct description.
Sec. 10. If any debtor is seized of a rent or of the income of
any real estate, a levy may be made thereon, and the appraisers may
set off the same for such term as they judge sufficient to pay the
judgment, interest, and costs ; and the sheriff shall cause the tenant
to attorn and become tenant to the creditor, and, upon his refusal,
shall turn him out of possession, and deliver seizin to the creditor
to hold for the term aforesaid.
Sec. 11. The officer shall deliver seizin and possession of the
property so set off to the creditor or his attorney, shall make a full
return of his proceedings, and cause the execution and return to be
recorded at length in the registry of deeds of the county, and re
turned to the office of the clerk of the court to which it is by law
returnable.
Sec. 12. All the debtor's interest in such real estate shall pass by
the levy as against all persons, if the levy is recorded as aforesaid
on or before the return day of the execution ; otherwise only as
against the debtor and his heirs until such record is made.
Sec. 13. Such extent shall be void if, within one year from the
return day of the execution, the debtor or any person interested
pays or tenders to the creditor the sum at which such real estate was
set off, with interest thereon from the time of levy ; all sums paid for
lawful taxes, and such reasonable expenses as have been incurred in
insuring, repairing, and improving the premises, deducting there
from the rents and profits received or which might have been re
ceived by the creditor or person having his estate, and with which
he is justly chargeable.
Sec. 14. When the amount for which real estate is so set off is —
by accident or mistake in computing the amount of the debt or
damages and costs, with interest thereon, or the officer's fees on the
execution, and without fraudulent intent — greater than the amount
due upon such execution, with costs and the officer's fees, the debtor
or person having his estate may redeem, by paying or tendering as
provided in the preceding section, reckoning the amount justly due,
instead of the amount at which said estate was set off.
Sec. 15. When real estate is so set off for such greater amount, if
iii i • i • i i-i
the debtor or person having his estate redeems, by paying the amount
for which the same was set off, he may recover, in an action for
money had and received, of the person to whom such payment was
made, the excess of the amount so paid beyond the amount due as
aforesaid.
Sec. 10. If the debtor or person having his estate does not re-
deem within said year, he may recover of the creditor, in such action,
the amount of the excess for which said estate was set off beyond
the amount due as aforesaid.
Sec. 17. When real estate is so set off for a greater amount than
is due as aforesaid, either party may apply by petition to the supreme
court, to have the amount of such excess determined, and upon no
tice and hearing, the court shall determine the same, and may issue
execution therefor in favor of the debtor against the creditor.
Sec. 18. Upon payment of such excess, with interest from the
time of the levy, and such costs as the court may allow, the title to
said real estate under said levy shall not be affected by such excess,
Sec. 19. When real estate is set off on execution, and the parties
*
do not aerrce as to the amount to be paid to redeem the same, like
proceedings may be had for determining said amount as provided
for determining the amount due upon a mortgage on petition of the
mortgagor.
Sec. 20. The debtor may redeem, paying to the creditor the
amount of the levy, without any deduction on account of the rents
and profits, and recover of the creditor by action of assumpsit, for
use and occupation of the estate, the amount of said rents and
profits.
Sec. 21. The creditor or person having his estate, upon payment
or tender to him of the amount as aforesaid to be paid for redeem-
ing such estate, having his reasonable charges tendered to him therefor,
shall execute to the debtor a release of all right acquired by the
levy.
Section 1. Rights in equity of redeeming mortgaged real estate
taken on execution may be sold at auction, and a valid deed thereof
m&de by the officer to the purchaser ; and such execution, with the
doings of the officer thereon, shall be returned according to the pre
cept thereof.
Sec. 2. Notice of the time and place of sale shall be given to the
debtor, or left at his abode if he resides in the county or within
twenty miles of the property, and a like notice posted at two of the
most public places in the town in which the property is situate,
thirty days before the sale.
Sec. 3. If the debtor does not reside in the county, or within
twenty miles of the property, a like notice shall also be published
m some newspaper printed in the vicinity, three weeks successively
before the sale.
Sec. 4. The levy shall be commenced by posting notices as aforesaid,
and may be completed afterward, and the sale may be ad-
journed, not exceeding ten days at a time nor sixty days in the whole,
notice of the adjournment being posted in the same manner as no
tices of the sale.
Sec. 5. If the debtor shall, within one year after the sale, redeem
such right in equity, by paying to the purchaser the purchase money
aui^ an*v money pa-id by him to redeem such mortgage in whole or in
part, after entry or notice for the purpose of foreclosure, with inter
est thereon, the sale and deed thereof shall be void.
Sec. 6. On payment, the purchaser, having his reasonable charges
therefor tendered to him, shall execute a release to the debtor of all
right to such estate acquired by or under such sale.
^EC' ^' ^'ie ^cc^ °*' on^ccr making such sale shall briefly
state his office, the names of the parties to the action in which the
execution issued, and the court and the term at which the judgment
was rendered, the consideration paid therefor, a description of
the premises conveyed, and the right of the debtor to redeem the
same, and shall contain a covenant that the officer has observed all
the requisitions of the law by virtue of which the deed is made.
Sec. 8. No sale upon execution, of any greater interest in any
real estate than a term of seven years, shall be valid, except against
the debtor and his heirs, unless the execution and the return are recorded
in the registry of deeds in the county in which the estate is
situate.
Sec. 9. The proceeds of such sale shall be applied to the satisfae-
tion of the executions issuing in the actions in which such estate
was attached in the order of the attachments, and then to the payment
of any other executions in the officer's hands in the order in which
they were received, and the residue shall be paid to the debtor.
Sec. 10. The purchaser shall be liable to the debtor, after redemption,
for the rents and profits received therefrom over the expenditures
made thereon ; but such purchaser may pay or tender to the
debtor, either before or after action brought, the amount for which
he deems himself justly accountable as aforesaid, and costs ; and un
less the debtor shall recover a greater amount, the defendant shall
recover his costs. v
Sec. 11. The right of any debtor to receive a conveyance of real
« o iAi i-
cstate, on performance ot any contract, may be taken on execution
and sold at auction, and the purchaser shall have a remedy by bill
in equity to compel a conveyance.
Sec. 12. The right of any debtor to redeem any right or interest
in real estate may be taken in execution and sold at auction.
Sec. 13. Terms for years may be attached on mesne process, and
taken and sold on execution ; and in all cases where real estate taken
in execution is required to bo sold at auction, tho proceedings rela-
tive to such sale and the rights of parties thereupon shall be the
same as in cases of the sale of equities of redemption.
Sec. 14. The person having the estate or right of the creditor,
purchaser, or debtor, in any real estate taken in execution, shall be
deemed to be, and shall have the rights, privileges, and remedies in
all cases of, the creditor, purchaser, or debtor, as to all persons hav-
ing notice of his right; and no act done by or to the original creditor,
purchaser, or debtor shall thenceforth be of any validity.
Section 1. The goods and estate of towns and of school districts
may be taken on execution, and set off or sold, subject to the provi
sions of this chapter, as in case of an execution against an individual.
Sec. 2. Any notice required to be given to a debtor, upon the sale
or set-off of his property on execution, may be given to one of the
selectmen of the town or prudential committee of the district, upon
execution against such town or district.
Sec. 3. 11" sufficient goods or estate of the town or district are not
found to satisfy the execution, an attested copy thereof may be left
with one of the selectmen of the town or prudential committee of
the district.
Sec. -1. When such copy of an execution against a town is so left,
the selectmen shall pay the same, or assess a tax upon the polls and
estate liable to taxation therein sufficient to satisfy the same, and
the officer's fees thereon.
Sec. 5. When such copy of an execution against a school district
is so left, the prudential committee shall pay the same, or call a
meeting of the voters of the district, at which meeting they shall
vote to raise the necessary sum to satisfy said execution and the offi
cer's fees thereon ; and the clerk of the district shall certify the
same to the selectmen, who shall forthwith assess a tax for said
sum.
Sec. 6. When such town or district tax is so assessed, the same
shall be collected within thirty days, and applied in satisfaction of
the execution.
Sec. 7. If the selectmen to whom such vote of the school district
is certified neglect for thirty days to assess such district tax, and de
liver to the collector their warrant for the collection thereof, such
execution against the district may be levied upon the property of
said selectmen.
Sec. 8. If such execution is not paid within sixty days after an
attested copy is left as aforesaid, it may be levied, if against the
town, upon the goods or estate of the selectmen, and, if against
the school district, upon the goods or estate of the prudential com
mittee ; and if sufficient goods or estate of said selectmen or pru
dential committee arc not found, it may be levied upon the property
of any inhabitant of the town or district respectively.
Sec. 9. If the collector to whom any warrant for the collection of
such taxes is committed neglects to collect and pay over the same
to the selectmen, within thirty days after receiving the same, the selectmen
may issue an extent against him.
Sec. 10. Every person upon whose property an execution against
any town or school district has been levied may, in an action of assumpsit
for money paid, recover of such town or school district the
sum so levied, and damages and double costs.
CHAPTER CCXXI.
IMPRISONMENT AND PRISON BONDS.
Section
1. Debtor arrested or imprisoned after judg
ment, to be discliarged on giving bond.
2. In double amount of execution, with con
dition that debtor shall take oath, etc.
3. Sureties sufficient, when approved by cred
itor or two justices of quorum.
4. Bond to be delivered to creditor on request.
5. Debtor not taking oath to surrender him
self at jail, etc.
6. If more tlian one jail, notice to creditor at
which.
7. Debtor may be so surrendered by sureties
on bond.
8. Upon such surrender, debtor may be ar
rested and committed.
Section
9. Upon breach of bond, creditor to recover,
with ten per cent, interest, etc.
10. Debtor discharged from jail by creditor's
neglect to levy, not to be arrested in one
year.
11. Prisoner on civil process not to be detained
for prison charges except in tresj>ass, case
for torts, etc.
12. Person at whose suit prisoner committed,
except in trespass, etc., liable for prison
charges.
13. Prisoner to be detained for prison charges
in trespass, case for torts, and bastardy.
Section 1. Any person arrested or imprisoned on execution, or
detained in prison for want of bail after final judgment against him,
or committed to prison by his bail, or by the court upon a surrender
by his bail after such judgment, shall be discharged upon giving
11 1 ' Oi • i i
bond as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 2. Such bond shall be given to the creditor, with two sufficient
sureties, residents of the state, to be bound jointly and sever-
ally in at least double the sum for which such person is arrested or
imprisoned, with a condition in substance as follows : —
"The condition of the above obligation is, that if the said ,
now a prisoner at the suit of said , shall, within one year from
the date hereof, apply to the proper authority, and be admitted to
take and shall actually take the oath or affirmation prescribed by
law for the relief of poor debtors, or in default thereof shall sur
render himself to prison as prescribed by law, then this obligation to
be void."
The blanks in the condition shall be filled as the case may require.
Sec. 3. The sureties shall be deemed sufficient when they are ap-
proved in writing on the back of such bond, either by the creditor,
his attorney in the action, or by two disinterested justices of the quorum
of the county in which such person is arrested or imprisoned.
Sec. 4. Such bond shall be delivered by the officer to the creditor,
upon request and a proper receipt therefor.
57
Sec. o. If the debtor giving such bond shall not, within one year
from the date thereof, take the oath or affirmation prescribed by law
f°r the relief of poor debtors, or be otherwise discharged, he shall,
011 *ne nex* after the expiration of said year, unless the same
shall be Sunday, and in that case on the Monday following, surrender
njmscjf ^0 ^]ie keeper of the jail in the county where he was origi
nally arrested or committed, and remain at said jail from twelve
o'clock at noon till three o'clock in the afternoon of said day, and
his sureties on such bond shall be thereby discharged.
^EC" ^' ^ there is more than one jail in the county, the person
making the surrender shall cause notice in writing to be given to the
creditor or his attorney, or left at the abode of one of them, if either
lives in the state, stating at which of said jails the surrender will be
made, at least ten days prior thereto.
^EC' ^ ' suret'es i11 any sucn bond may take the body of the
principal, and surrender him at such jail in the manner and for the
e ■ l
purpose aforesaid.
Sec. 8. In the case of such surrender, the creditor may cause such
debtor to be arrested on his execution and committed to jail, where
he shall remain in close confinement, and shall not be again dis
charged on giving bond as aforesaid,
Sec. 9. On condition broken, the creditor shall recover, by action
on such bond, his just debt or damages, and costs thereof, with ten
Per cent- interest from the time of the arrest, with costs ; and the
clerk shall certify on the execution therefor that it was issued on
such bond ; and any person arrested or committed in any suit
thereon, shall be kept in close jail, and shall not be discharged on
giving such bond.
Sec. 10. If any debtor is discharged from jail by reason of the
neglect of the creditor to levy his execution upon his body within
thirty days after judgment rendered, he shall not be arrested in any
action upon such judgment at any time within one year afterward.
Sec. 11. No person committed on civil process shall be detained
^ pv-jgon for the non-payment of prison charges, except in actions of
trespass, case for torts, and prosecutions for bastardy ; but such
charges shall be a debt against the prisoner.
^E0, ^ne Pcrson a* whose suit any person is committed to
jail, except in actions of trespass, actions on the case for torts, and
prosecutions for bastardy, shall give bond to the jailer, with satisfactory
surety, or such as may be approved by a justice, to pay the
prison charges.
Sec. 13. Any person, so committed in said actions of trespass,
Case, 01" for bastardy, shall be detained for non-payment of prison
charges until released by order of the supreme court or of a justice
thereof.
Section 1. Any person arrested or committed to jail on execution,
or who has given bond as provided by law, may apply to a justice
of the supreme court, by petition, praying for the appointment
of two justices to whom he may apply to be admitted to take the
oath for the relief of poor debtors.
Sec. 2. Such justice, with or without notice to the creditor, in his
discretion, shall appoint two justices, one of whom shall be of the
quorum, to whom such application may be made.
Sec. 3. Said debtor may make application to said justices, setting
forth that he had not, at the time of his arrest nor at any time after,
estate of the value of twenty dollars, except goods by law exempt
from attachment, and praying to be admitted to take said oath.
Sec. 4. Either of said justices may make an order, on such appli-
cation, appointing a time and place for considering the same; and
the debtor shall cause the creditor or his attorney to be served with
a copy of said application and order, at least fifteen days before the
day of hearing,
Sec. 5. Either of said justices, upon evidence that such notice has
been given to the creditor, may adjourn said hearing, not more than
ten days. ■
Sec. 6. The person so applying may be examined under oath, Oil
motion of the creditor or his attorney, and any other evidence produced
by either party shall be heard ; and if it appears that such
person has been guilty of any fraud, deceit, or falsehood in relation
to his property, his application shall be refused.
Sec. 7. If it appears or is alleged that the person applying had
any property at the time of his commitment, over and above the
property exempted by law, his interest in the same may be by him
assigned to the creditor, at the discretion and appraisement of the
justices, in case the parties do not agree ; and on his refusal or neg
lect forthwith to make such assignment, his application shall be
refused.
Sec. 8. If no sufficient objection is made, said justices shall administer
to the debtor the following oath : —
" You, A B, do solemnly swear [or affirm] that you have not
any estate, real or personal, or any right thereto, to the amount of
twenty dollars, except what is by law exempted from attachment,
and that you have not at any time, directly or indirectly, sold,
leased, or otherwise conveyed any part of your property, or in
trusted any person therewith, with any intent or design to secure
the same, or to receive or expect any profit or advantage therefrom ;
nor have caused or suffered anything else whatever to be done
whereby any of your creditors may be defrauded. So help you God ' ' ;
[or, " This you do under the pains and penalties of perjury."']
Sec. 9. If the creditor or his attorney shall not accept any prop
erty of the debtor, an assignment whereof as aforesaid has been ten
dered, the form of the oath shall be altered accordingly, so as to
except such property which shall belong to such debtor.
Sec. 10. Said justices shall make a certificate of such oath, when
administered, substantially in the form following: —
On the
county of
THE STATE OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
XX.
day of
, A B, of
at in said
, heretofore a prisoner at
the suit of C D, of , took the oath prescribed by law for
the relief of poor debtors, the said C D [or the attorney of the said
C D], having been duly notified, did [or did not] attend.
Before \ Justices of the peace,
J one of the quorum.
Sec. 11. The person of the debtor shall be thereafter forever dis
charged from arrest or imprisonment on the debt or demand on
which he was so arrested or imprisoned ; but his estate shall always
remain liable therefor, and a new execution may at any time issue
against such estate.
Sec. 12. If the cause of action, in any action of trespass, or tres
pass on the case, has arisen from the wilful and malicious act or neg
lect of the defendant, the court or justice before whom the action is
tried shall cause a certificate thereof to be made on the back of the
execution issued in such action, and the defendant shall not be dis
charged on giving bond as provided in the preceding chapter.
Sec. 13. In such case the defendant shall not be entitled as a
matter of right to be discharged, upon taking the poor debtor's oath ;
but if the justices to whom application is made shall think proper,
he may be discharged upon such terms and conditions as they may
impose.
Sec. 14. Any person disqualified to testify as a witness may, not
withstanding, be admitted to take said oath.
Sec. 15. If the application of any person to take such oath shall
not prevail, costs shall be taxed for the creditor in the same manner
as in actions in the supreme court, and judgment be rendered and
execution issued by the justices therefor.
Sec. 16. No application of any person to take the poor debtor's
oath shall be allowed, until the costs which have been adjudged
against him on all former applications have been paid.
Section 1. Creditors intending to charge the bail on the execution
shall indorse thereon the name and place of abode of the bail ;
and the officer, at least fifteen days before the return day thereof,
shall deliver to the person intended to be charged as bail, or leave
at his abode, a notice in writing, stating that such execution is in his
hands, the amount thereof, and when it is returnable, and keep such
execution until the return day thereof.
Sec. 2. If the bail so notified produces the body of the debtor to
the officer, at any time before the return day, so that he may arrest
him, and pays the reasonable charges for such notice, the bail shall
be discharged.
Sec. 3. The bail shall not be charged upon any return of non est
inventus, unless the officer certifies in such return that notice was
given as aforesaid to the bail.
Sec. 4. Bail shall be discharged at any time before judgment
against him, by committing the principal to the jail of the county in
which the arrest was made or in which the action is pending, and
giving to the creditor or his attorney in the action, within fifteen
days thereafter, notice in writing of the time when and the place
where the principal is so committed, and causing the board of the
principal to be paid or secured to the jailer until the expiration of
seven days after notice given to the creditor or his attorney, unless
he shall be sooner discharged by giving bond according to law.
Sec. 5. If the officer makes return, on the execution against the
principal, that he has made diligent search, and has not been able to
find the principal in his precinct, and that he gave notice to the bail
as herein prescribed, the creditor may have a writ of scire facias
against the bail, and judgment and execution against him for the
amount of such execution and interest, and for costs.
Sec. 6. If the bail, while the action is pending, or at any time af-
ter scire facias and before judgment against him, brings into court
the body of the principal, and moves to be discharged, he shall bo
discharged, and the court shall order the keeper of the prison to receive
the principal into custody ; and he shall be holdeu in the same
manner as if he had been committed on the writ for want of bail.
Sec. 7. The bail shall not be discharged by committing his prin-
cipal and notice to the creditor as aforesaid, after notice given to
the bail as aforesaid, without paying to the officer, creditor, or his
attorney the cost of such notice, and the cost which has arisen in
any action previously commenced against such bail.
Sec. 8. No scire facias against bail shall be supported, unless the
same shall be served on the bail within one year after the final judg
ment against the principal.
Sec. 9. The bail, in actions in police and justice courts, may com
mit the principal to jail at any time before judgment against him,
and shall be discharged upon producing to such court or justice a
certificate thereof from the jailer, in the same manner and upon pay
ment of the like cost as if he were surrendered in court.
Sec. 10. The bail, on committing the principal to jail, shall in all
cases leave with the jailer an attested copy of the writ or process on
which the arrest was made, and of the officer's return thereon, with
a certificate of such commitment ; and the jailer shall detain such
principal in his custody in the same manner as if he were committed
for want of bail.
Section 1. Any person imprisoned or otherwise restrained of his
personal liberty, by any officer or other person, except in the cases
mentioned in the following section, is entitled of right to a writ of
habeas corpus according to the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 2. Persons imprisoned upon legal process, civil or criminal,
iii which the cause of such imprisonment is distinctly expressed, and
persons committed by any court or judge of the United States, and
where no judge of any court of this state has authority to discharge
or to commit to bail, are not entitled of right to said writ.
Sec. 3. Application for such writ may be made to the supreme
. 1 1 . . J . . . „ r,
court in term time, in any county, or to any justice thereot at any
time, by any person so imprisoned or restrained, or by some person
in his behalf.
Sec. 4. The application shall be in writing, signed by the applicant,
and under oath, and shall state the place where the person is
supposed to be imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, and by whom,
an(^ a C0P^ °^ *ne warran* or precept, if any, imder which he is con
fined, shall be annexed to such application,
Sec. 5. If by such copy it appears that such person is lawfully
imprisoned or restrained of his liberty by virtue thereof, a writ of
habeas corpus shall not be granted.
Sec. 6. If by such copy it appears that such person is imprisoned
011 mesne process for want of bail, or on criminal process before a
magistrate for want of recognizance, and that excessive bail or recognizance
is required, such court orjustice shall decide what bail is
reasonable, and he shall, on giving such bail, be discharged,
Sec. 7. If any officer, having the custody of any such person by
virtue of any precept, refuses or delays unnecessarily to deliver to
sucn applicant an attested copy of such precept, on demand, such
court or justice, on proof of such demand and refusal or unnecessary
delay, to be proved by the affidavit of the applicant or other credible
witness, shall forthwith issue the writ of habeas carpus as prayed for.
Sec. 8. The form of the writ may be substantiallv as follows: —
THE STATE OP NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
„g. To
.
[l. s.] We command you that the body of , in our prison,
under your custody detained [or, by you imprisoned and restrained
of his liberty, as the case may be], as is said, together with the day
and cause of the taking and detaining of the said by
whatever name the said may be called or charged, you
have before our justices of our supreme judicial court, holden at
, within and for our county of , immediately after
the receipt of this writ, to undergo and receive what our said justices
shall then and there consider of him in this behalf; and have you
then there this writ.
Witness at , this day of , in the year
All necessary alterations in the form thereof shall be made to
adapt the same to the circumstances of the application,
Sec. 9. Said writ, when awarded by the court, shall be under the
seal of the court, tested by the chief justice or first justice who is
not a party, and signed by the clerk; when awarded by any justice
0f sai,j C011rt) jt ghall be under his hand and seal.
Sec. 10. Said writ, when issued by the court, may be made returnable
immediately to the court, or any justice thereof in any
county, or at anytime and place certain, or before any justice of
said court at any time and place therein directed.
Sec. 11. If the writ is issued by any justice of said court, it may
be made returnable before himself or any other justice thereof im-
mediately, at a place therein directed, or at a time and place certain,
or before said court, as may be therein directed.
Sec. 12. In all cases, such writ shall be made returnable in such
a mode as to secure to the applicant the enjoyment of the same in
the most free, easy, cheap, and expeditious manner.
Sec. 13. The court or justice awarding such writ may, in his dis-
cretion, before the same is awarded, require the applicant to file a
sufficient bond or give satisfactory security to the person to whom
such writ is directed, for the payment of all charges incurred by
reason of such process, and that the person imprisoned shall not es
cape by the way ; and may also order tl\at the expenses of bring
ing the person imprisoned or restrained before such court or justice,
to be fixed by the court or justice and indorsed on the writ, shall be
paid or tendered at the time of the service thereof.
Sec. 14. The service of such writ may be made by any person,
and shall be by delivering the original to the person to whom it is
directed, or, if the person for whom application is made is in prison,
by leaving it with the jailer or deputy keeper at such prison, and
paying or tendering the sum indorsed on said writ, if any.
Sec. 15. The person making such service, shall keep a copy of
the writ, and shall make his return or affidavit of service and of the
payment or tender of fees thereon as in other cases, and deliver
the same to the court or justice before whom the same is returnable,
on or before the time of hearing therein designated.
Sec. 16. The person to whom such writ is directed shall receive
the same when offered, and upon payment or tender of the sum in-
dorsed on said writ, if any, shall yield due obedience to the command
thereof ; and shall make due return thereof to the court or
justice, and at the time and place therein mentioned ; and shall
state every cause of taking and detaining the person imprisoned ore
restrained ; all which shall be made under oath ; and shall also have
present the body of such person, unless imprisoned or restrained for
some one or more of the causes specified in the second section of
this chapter.
Sec. 17. If no time is specified for such return, but the writ is returnable
immediately, the return shall be made within three days
after such service, unless the prisoner is to be brought more than
twenty miles, in which case the return shall be made within so many
days more as will be equal to one day for every ten miles of such
further distance.
Sec. 18. Any justice of said court, when any such writ is returned
to him, may certify and return the same, with all things pertaining
thereto, to said court, if then sitting ; and at any time before the
prisoner is discharged, bailed, or remanded, any such justice may
adjourn further proceedings on such writ to said court, if then in
session, or to the next term thereof, if to commence within three
months next afterward. The said court, in any such case, shall pro-
ceed thereon as if such writ had been, by the tenor thereof, return
able thereto.
Sec. 19. If said court is not in session when any such writ is made
returnable, the same shall be returned to any justice of said court as
if the same was issued by and returnable to him.
Sec. 20. Such court or justice may require and take security by
recognizance, with sufficient sureties if necessary, for the appearance
of any party at the time and place of hearing on any such writ, and
to abide the order of court thereon ; and may make all decrees neces
sary to insure the attainment of the object of such writ, and enforce
the same upon the principles of equity.
Sec. 21. When any person is brought before any court or justice
thereof as aforesaid, such court or justice shall, within three days
after, examine the causes of detention.
Sec. 22. If the person imprisoned or restrained is so imprisoned
or restrained without sufficient cause or due order of law, he shall be
discharged ; but if otherwise he shall be remanded.
Sec. 23. If such person is committed for any bailable offence,
such court or justice may bail him by ordering him to recognize
with sufficient surety or sureties, in a reasonable sum, for his ap
pearance at the court having cognizance of such offence, and shall
certify the recognizance into such court.
Sec. 24. If such person is committed on mesne process, in any
civil action for want of bail, and it appears that the bail required is
. , . . ,'. ( . 1 , . . * , , , .,
excessive, such court or uistice may discharge him on reasonable bail
^rig given.
^ECl ^ SU(m Pcrson is imprisoned or restrained by order of a
justice, or of any court or authority other than the supreme court or
a justice thereof, for contempt, the proceedings in said order and
the cause thereof may be revised, and the order affirmed, modified,
or reversed by said supreme court or a justice thereof.
Sec. 26. If any officer having the custody of any prisoner, on pay
ment or tender of his fees therefor, shall not, within six hours after
demand made, deliver to such prisoner a true copy of the warrant
or process by which he is holden in custody, he shall forfeit to the
party aggrieved the sum of two hundred dollars.
Sec. 27. If any person to whom any writ of habeas corpus is directed
refuses to receive the same, or conceals himself, or avoids so
that such writ cannot be delivered to him, or, after the receipt thereof,
refuses or neglects, after the payment or tender of expenses when
required as aforesaid, to yield obedience thereto, unless prevented by
the sickness of the person detained or other necessity, he shall for
feit for every such offence, to the person aggrieved, the sum of five
hundred dollars.
Sec. 28. If any person makes any false return to any such writ,
he sliall be liable to the action of the party aggrieved, and also to
any action at common law for false imprisonment or unlawful re
straint.
Sec. 29. The court or justice thereof awarding any such writ, or
to whom it is returned, may punish every disobedience to the order
thereof as for a contempt, and may compel obedience thereto by pro
cess of attachment.
Sec. 30. No person enlarged by habeas corpus shall again be imprisoned
or restrained of his liberty for the same cause, unless he
shall be indicted therefor or convicted thereof, or shall neglect to R
■ C
appear according to his recognizance, or to find bail when required
thereto ; and if any officer or other person shall wilfully again im
prison or restrain the person so discharged, except as aforesaid, he
shall forfeit to the party aggrieved eight hundred dollars.
Sec. 31. All actions and prosecutions for any offence against the P
provisions of this chapter shall be commenced within two years next i
after the commission of the offence, saving to all persons in prison U
the right to sue or prosecute at any time within two years after such c
impediment is removed.
Sec. 32. The right of action in any case; excepting actions of tres- R
pass for false imprisonment, shall not cease by the death of either S
party, but shall survive for and against the personal representatives ^
of the deceased. c
CHAPTER CCXXV.
FORFEITURE OF GRANTS.
Suction
1. Woril "grant" to include charters, etc.,
and acts conferring rights not common to
all.
2. Word "grantee" to include all having
grantee's rights.
:j. Proceedings for forfeiture may be by Infor
mation or petition, etc.
4. If by petition, bond to pay costs to be filed.
o. If land in dift'erent counties, proceedings in
either, etc.
G. Service and notice of pendency as in actions
by writ of summons, etc.
7. If grantee does not appear, court to hear
evidence, etc.
8. Several defendants may plead severally.
9. If condition found not fulfilled, grantee may
file reasons why in equity no forfeiture.
10. If condition not ]icrfornied, but in equity no
forfeiture, grantee to pay costs.
11. If forfeiture ought in equity to be decreed,
judgment.
Section
12. Copies to be sent to secretary of state, if
judgment of forfeiture.
1.1. When judgment of forfeiture of land, gran
tee may file claim for improvements.
14. Question of improvements and previous
valuo of land determined equitably.
15. If improvements found, decree to be that
state or petitioner pay value, or that gran
tee pay valuo of land, etc.
16. Decree may bo In alternative, that grantee
pay value of land or that valuo of improve
ments be paid to him.
17. If grantee fails to fulfil decree, on scirr.
facias, final decree of forfeiture, otc.
18. If defendant prevails, to recover costs, ex
cept against state.
19. Grant maybe forfeited for non-iierfornmnco
of condition, express or implied.
20. On judgment of forfeiture, grant void, otc.
Section 1. The word "grant," in this chapter, includes all grants
or charters of lands made by the supreme executive or legislative
power of the state, and all acts of incorporation and laws giving to
individuals powers or rights not common to all citizens.
Sec. 2. The word " grantee," in this chapter, includes the person
or corporation to whom such grant is made, and all persons having
the right of such person or corporation therein.
Sec. 3. Proceedings for obtaining a decree of the forfeiture °^
such grant may be by information, filed in the supreme court by the
attorney-general or other person authorized in behalf of the state;
or, if the claim is by an individual for the forfeiture of a grant of
land, by his petition, filed in said court, alleging such forfeiture and
praying for the decree.
4. If such petition is filed, the petitioner shall file with the
clerk a bond to the state, in a reasonable sum, with sufficient suretics,
conditioned to pay all costs which may be adjudged against him.
Sec. 5. If the land to which the proceedings relate is in different
counties, the proceedings may be in either, and the order of notice,
upon the information or petition, shall be that the grantee appear
and show cause why the grant should not be decreed forfeited.
Sec. 6. Service of the petition or information and order, and
notice of the pendency of the proceedings given, may be made as
required in actions commenced by writ of summons; and, if the
proceedings are for the forfeiture of land, a copy of the petition or
information and order shall be posted thirty days before the court,
in some public place in the shire-town of the county, and published
in the newspaper in which the sale of lands for non-resident taxes
is required to be advertised.
Sec. 7. If the grantee does not appear, upon such service or no
tice, the court shall hear the evidence, and adjudge whether the grant
is forfeited.
Sec. 8. If several persons claim under the same grant, they may
appear and plead severally.
Sec. 9. If it is found by the jury or by the court that the condi
tions of the grant have not been performed, the grantee may in
writing allege reasons why the forfeiture ought not in equity to be
enforced, and the court, upon consideration thereof, shall determine
whether, in equity and good conscience, a decree of forfeiture should
be made.
Sec. 10. If they decide that such decree ought not in equity to be
made, the judgment shall be that the grant is not forfeited, for the
reasons in equity assigned, and that the grantee pay the costs of suit.
Sec. 11. If they decide that the decree of forfeiture ought to be
made, the judgment shall be that the grant is forfeited.
Sec. 12. When such judgment is rendered on information filed in
behalf of the state, the clerk shall, within thirty days, transmit to
the secretary of state attested copies of the judgment, and all papers
in the case, which shall be filed in his office, and laid before the
general court at their next session.
Sec. 13. When judgment is rendered that any grant of land is
forfeited, the grantee may file in writing a claim for improvements
made by him on said land, and move to be heard thereon.
Sec. 14. The question whether improvements have been made,
and the value thereof, and if any improvements, the value of the
land at the time of the entry of the grantee, shall be determined,
upon equitable principles, by the court or a jury, at the election of
the grantee.
Sec. 15. If such improvements arc found, a decree shall be made
that the state or petitioner pay to said grantee the value thereof, or
such part of said value as the court may deem equitable ; or that the
grantee pay to the state or petitioner the value of the land before
such improvements were made, and upon such payment that the
grantee have the title of the state or petitioner thereto.
Sec. 16. The decree in such case may be in the alternative, that
the grantee pay such value of the land, or that such value of the
improvements be paid to him, at his election ; and in all cases it
may prescribe the time, mode, and conditions of payment, as may be
equitable.
Sec. 17. If the grantee fails to fulfil such decree according to its
terms, upon scire facias to him, a final decree shall he made that his
claim is forfeited, and a writ of possession shall issue thereon.
Sec. 18. If the defendant prevails in such suit, he shall recover his
costs of the person by whom it is prosecuted, unless authorized to
prosecute the same in behalf of the state.
Sec. 19. Any grant may be adjudged forfeited for the non-per-
formance of any condition annexed to or contained therein, whether
such condition be expressed, or, from the nature of the case, im-
plied.
Sec. 20. When any grant is adjudged forfeited, the grantee is di-
vested of all rights, powers, and privileges under the same ; and it
shall be thenceforth void.
CHAPTER CCXXVI
replevin.
Section
1. Owner of beasts impounded may replevy
against impounder.
2. Of goods attached on writ against another.
3. Of goods exempt.
4. Officer having writ of replevin may demand
goods, etc.
Suction
5. If property less than Uurteeu dollars and
thirty-three cents, action to be before justice.
C. Plaintiff before service to givo bond to
sheriff, etc.
Section 1. Any person whose beasts arc impounded may, while
they remain in the pound, maintain replevin therefor against the
impounder thereof.
Sec. 2. When goods or chattels attached on any writ of mesne
..Si ,1 1 ,.
process are claimed by any other person, he may maintain replevin
therefor.
Sec. 3. The owner of goods or chattels exempted by law from at-
tachmcnt, attached upon mesne process, or the person from whose
possession they were taken, may maintain replevin therefor, before
they are taken on execution.
Sec. 4. If any property so attached is in the possession of any
person, for keeping or otherwise, the officer having the writ of re-
plevin may demand the same, and, on neglect or refusal to deliver
such property, may enter any close or building and replevy the same.
The taking by such officer of any property shall exonerate the person
having possession thereof as aforesaid from all liability therefor.
Sec. 5. If the value of property replevied does not exceed thirteen
dollars and thirty-three cents, the action shall be brought be-
fore a justice or police court; otherwise in the supreme court.
Sec. 6. The plaintiff in the writ, before service thereof, shall give
bond to the sheriff, with sufficient sureties, in a sum not less than
double the value of the property replevied, conditioned to prose-
cute his suit, and to pay all such damages and charges as may be
awarded against him.
Section 1. If dower is not assigned to any woman entitled thereto
to her satisfaction, by the heir or tenant of the freehold or by the
judge of probate, she may recover the same by action of dower.
Sec. 2. She shall make demand in writing of her dower of the
person seized of the freehold, if in this state, otherwise of the ten
ant in possession ; and if such dower is not set out within one month,
may sue for and recover the same against such person.
Sec. 3. The writ in actions of dower shall be a summons.
Sec. 4. If the demandant recovers judgment for her dower, she
shall, also, in the same action, recover her reasonable damages for
the detention thereof by the tenant in such action after demand
made.
Sec. 5. Judgment shall bo rendered for the demandant, that she
recover "seizin of such part of a certain with the appur
tenances, as will produce a yearly income equal to one third part of
the yearly income thereof on the day of ."
Sec. 6. The officer to whom such writ of seizin is directed shall
cause such dower to be set off by three discreet and disinterested
men of the neighborhood, who shall be appointed and shall proceed
in the same manner as is provided in the levy of executions on real
estate.
Sec. 7. The rights of every such woman, and the mode of setting
out her dower shall be the same as in similar cases before a judge
of proba te.
Section 1. One or more persons, having or holding real estate
with others, in possession, reversion, or remainder after an estate of
freehold, if such remainder is vested and not contingent, may have
partition thereof, as in this chapter provided.
Sec. 2. Petition may be filed by such person in the supreme court
in the county in which such estate or any part thereof lies, particularly
describing the estate, the names of all owners or persons inter-
ested, if known, and the share of the petitioner therein, and praying
r partition thereof.
Sec. 3. If the persons interested in any such real estate with the
petitioner are unknown, it shall be described in the petition in the
same manner as is required in the case of taxing unimproved lands
of non-residents, specifying the share held by each petitioner, and
stating the same as held with persons unknown.
Sec. 4. The petitioner shall give notice to all persons interested
in such estate, by causing the petition and order of notice thereon
to be served on each in the same manner that writs of summons are
required to be served.
Sec. 5. If any petitionee or his residence is unknown, or if he re-
sides out of the state and has not had personal notice, the court shall
order publication of the petition and order of notice, the last of which
shall be thirty days at least before the term at which the petition is
to be heard.
Sec. 6. If any petitionee is absent at the time of the service of
such petition, and has not returned, and docs not appear at the sit-
ting of the court at which the petition is entered or continued,
may be continued and further notice ordered.
Sec. 7. If any petitionee is an infant or otherwise incapacitated
to take care of his estate, the court shall not cause partition to be
made until a guardian or agent has been appointed, and such agent
may be appointed by the court.
Sec. 8. If any petitionee is unknown, the court may, in their dis
cretion, appoint an agent to aid and advise in his behalf in making
such partition.
Sec. 9. Matters alleged in the petition may be denied or avoided
by the petitionee by plea, and further pleadings may be had, and an
issue of fact or of law made and tried as upon a writ at common law ;
or the petitionee may file a plea denying that he holds any part of
the premises with the petitioner, with a brief statement of matters in
defence.
Sec. 10. If the issue is determined in favor of the petitioner, or if
after notice the petitionee does not appear, the court shall render
judgment that partition be made, and shall appoint a committee, con
sisting of three suitable persons, residents of the county, to make
partition of such estate, and to set off the shares of the several peti
tioners according to their respective titles, and may award costs as
they deem just.
Sec. 11. Such committee, before proceeding to make partition, shall
cause notice in writing of the time and place appointed for a hearing,
signed by their chairman, to be served upon each person interested,
or his agent or attorney, or left at his abode, seven days at least be
fore such day of hearing.
Sec. 12. If any petitionee or his residence is unknown, the com
mittee shall cause such notice to be published.
Sec. 13. Said committee, before the hearing, shall be sworn faith
fully and impartially to discharge the duties of their commission, and
shall make partition of the estate as is therein directed, by setting
off to each petitioner his just share thereof, according to his right,
by proper metes and bounds or other distinct description, and shall
return to the court a full report of their doings, with a particular
description of each portion of the estate so set off, and a certificate
of said oath.
Sec. 14. Such partition and report being made and returned to
said court, judgment may be rendered thereon ; and the same being
recorded in the registry of deeds for the county where the real estate
lies, shall be valid.
Sec. 15. The committee shall adjust the costs of making such par
tition, and apportion the same in such manner as they think just for
or against the parties interested, and report the same to the court.
Sec. 16. If on the trial of any issue it is determined that the
petitioner has a share in the estate described, but less than he claims,
the court shall order partition to be made according to the rights of
each, but the petitionee shall recover costs.
Sec. 17. If on such trial it is determined that the petitioner has
no share in such estate, the petitionee shall recover costs.
Sec. 18. If the petitioner fails to enter or prosecute his petition,
costs shall be awarded in favor of all the petitionees upon whom ser
vice thereof was made.
Sec. 19. No partition shall be avoided by any conveyance made
by any petitionee after the entry of the petition therefor, nor by any
conveyance, unless duly recorded at the date of such entry, nor by
any mortgage, attachment, or lien thereon, whenever made, or by the
death of either party ; but the share of each petitioner shall be set
off in severalty, and be subject to all legal claims thereon, as if such
claimant had been a party thereto. ,
Sec. 20. If in making partition any share is set off to any person
other than the legal owner, such share shall inure to the benefit
of the legal owner, his heirs, or assigns, as if the same had been set
off to him.
Sec. 21. If there is no dispute about the title, a petition for partition
may be filed with the judge of probate for the county where
the real estate or the greater part thereof lies, who shall appoint ac
time and place of hearing thereon.
Sec. 22. Notice thereof shall be given to all parties interested, by
giving to each in hand or leaving at his abode an attested copy of
the petition and order of notice, lifteen days at least before the day
of hearing, or by causing the same to be published.
Sec. 23. If on such hearing no sufficient objection appears, said
judge shall cause partition to be made by a committee, who shall be
appointed, be sworn, give notice, and proceed, and the court shall
appoint guardians or agents for all minors or persons incapacitated,
and agents for all persons unknown or out of the state, interested
in such estate, receive and accept the report of such committee, and
render judgment and award costs thereon, in the manner in this chapter prescribed.
Sec. 24. If any party interested, against whom costs are awarded,
neglects to pay the same, the said judge may issue his warrant of
■1 • 1 j 1 n
distress therefor.
Sec. 25. When any estate is so situated that it cannot be divided
so as to give to each owner his equal share therein without great
prejudice or inconvenience, the same or part thereof may be assigned
to one of the owners, he paying to the other persons interested who
shall have less than their shares such sum of money as the com
mittee shall award, or giving bond, with sufficient sureties, to pay
the same, with interest, within such time as the court shall order.
CHAPTER CCXXIX.
WILFUL TRESPASS.
Section
1. Person wilfully cutting, destroying, etc.,
trees, timber, underwood, etc., liable to for
feiture.
2. Or wilfully cutting out mark of mill log, or
cutting lumber, etc.
3. Wilfully throwing down fence, etc., liable
for treble damages, etc.
4. Or wilfully digging or carrying away stone
or turf, etc.
Section
5. Wilfully entering upon and continuing in
possession of state land, to forfeit one hun
dred dollars.
6. No right acquired by adverse possession
against state, etc.
7. Actions under this chapter to be brought in
two years.
Section 1. If any person shall cut, fell, destroy, injure, or carry
away, wilfully and unlawfully, any tree, timber, log, wood, pole, un-
derwood, or bark standing or being on the land of another person,
or shall aid therein, he shall forfeit to the person injured, for every
pine or other timber tree so cut, felled, destroyed, injured, or carried
away, five times the value thereof ; for every other tree or log of
greater dimensions than one foot in diameter, five dollars and three
time's the value thereof; for every other tree or log of the dimen
sions of one foot in diameter, five dollars ; and for every tree, log, or
pole less than one foot in diameter, three dollars ; and for any orther
wood, underwood, timber, or bark, three times the value thereof.
Sec. 2. Whoever shall wilfully and unlawfully cut out or alter
the mark of any mill log, or cut into any lumber or log, the same
being the property of another, or shall aid therein, shall be liable to
the same penalty as that prescribed in the preceding section for cut
ting a tree or log of the same dimensions.
Sec. 3. Whoever shall wilfully and unlawfully throw down or
leave open any fence, gate, or bar belonging to or inclosing any
land holden in common, or belonging to another person, or shall aid
therein, shall forfeit, to the person injured, treble damages and not
exceeding fifteen dollars.
Sec. 4. Whoever shall wilfully and unlawfully dig or carry away
any stone, ore, gravel, clay, sand, turf, or mould upon or from any
land holden in common or the land of another person, or shall aid
therein, shall forfeit, to the person injured, treble damages and not
exceeding fifteen dollars.
Sec. 5. Whoever shall, without authority, wilfully enter into or
upon, or take possession of, any land belonging to the state, and
continue in possession thereof without right for the space of three
months, shall forfeit one hundred dollars, one half to the use of the
state, and the other half to the use of the complainant.
Sec. 6. No right shall be acquired by such entry or possession, nor
by any adverse possession of such land, as against the state or its
grantees.
Sec. 7. No action under the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained unless commenced within two years after the cause of
action accrued.
Section 1. Any personal action may be commenced by trustee process,
except actions of replevin and trespass to the person, and ac-
tions for defamation and malicious prosecution.
Sec. 2. Such action shall be brought in the county in which it
should be brought if no trustee were summoned,
Sec. 3. The trustee writ shall be an attachment and summons,
and shall be served upon the defendant and trustee like a writ of
summons, and the goods and estate of the defendant may be attached
thereon.
Sec. 4. The names of any persons may be inserted in the writ as
trustees, after service thereof upon any other trustee, but not after
service upon the defendant.
Sec. 5. A partnership shall not be charged as trustee unless the
persons summoned are described as partners, nor shall the partners
be charged severally unless severally summoned.
Sec. b'. Two or more trustees otherwise jointly liable may be
charged jointly, though severally summoned.
Sec. 7. The plaintiff, at the time of the service of the writ upon
the trustee, or at any time after, but before the return day, and be
fore notico to him as provided in the next section, may summon the
trustee, and pay or tender him his fees as a witness, to give his de
position relative to any money, goods, chattels, rights, or credits of
the defendant in his hands, and relative to the claim of the trustee
to any estate or property attached on the writ.
Sec. 8. The trustee, at any time before the return day of the writ,
and before he is summoned as such witness, may give to the plain
tiff or his attorney such notice as is required to be given to the ad
verse party for taking depositions, that he will attend at a designated
time before the return day, and at a place within the county, and
give such deposition.
Sec. 9. If the trustee, upon such summons or notice, fails to at
tend or refuses to give his deposition, the plaintiff attending to take
the same, and paying or tendering his fees as such witness, the trus
tee shall be adjudged chargeable, subject to the provisions of section
twelve.
Sec. 10. If the plaintiff fails to attend or to proceed and take
said deposition, the trustee attending to give the same upon his fees
being paid, the trustee shall be discharged, subject to said provisions.
Sec. 11. If the trustee makes default, he shall be adjudged charge
able for the amount of the judgment which may be recovered by the
plaintiff against the defendant.
Sec. 12. If the trustee appears at the return term of the writ, in
case no summons or notice for taking his deposition has been served
as aforesaid, or in case the party failing or refusing, upon such sum
mons or notice, to take or give said deposition as aforesaid shall sat
isfy the court that said failure or refusal was for good cause, the
court, upon such terms as they may order, shall limit a time, not ex
ceeding sixty days after said term, for taking said deposition.
Sec. 13. The court or any justice thereof, upon application and
good cause shown under oath before the expiration of the time so
limited, may extend said time, upon such terms as may be just.
Sec. 14. If, at any time after such summons or notice for taking
said deposition has been served as aforesaid, the trustee avoids, so
that his deposition cannot be taken by the plaintiff, upon satisfac
tory proof thereof, the trustee shall be adjudged chargeable as upon
default.
Sec. 15. No trustee shall be charged unless his deposition is taken
as aforesaid and filed in the case, except as is otherwise provided in
this chapter.
Sec. 16. If a corporation or partnership is summoned as trustee,
the deposition of the cashier, treasurer, or other proper officer or
agent of the corporation, or of a member of the partnership, may be
taken as the deposition of said trustee.
Sec. 17. In such case, like proceedings may be had by or against
the corporation or partnership, upon summons or notice to or by such
officer, agent, or member, to give such deposition, and, upon their
failure or refusal, as in the case of an individual.
Sec. 18. The plaintiff may at any time give notice in writing to the
trustee that the action is discontinued against him, and no further
proceedings shall be had, except that the trustee shall recover his
cost, if any, to that time.
Sec. 19. The depositions of other persons may be taken by the
plaintiff or the trustee relative to his liability,
Sec. 20. At the term next after the deposition of the trustee is
taken, said deposition shall be submitted, unless, for good cause
shown, further time is given for taking other depositions.
Sec. 21. If the trustee is sought to be charged for any negotiable
promissory note, or other instrument on which he is liable, made and
payable in this state, or the parties to which, at the time of making
the same, resided in this state, the plaintiff shall, if practicable,
take the deposition of the defendant as to the disposition and own-
, . 1 » 1
ership thereof,
Sec. 22. If it appears that any third person has a claim of right
to such note or instrument, or if it is not practicable to procure such
deposition, the court may order notice to bo given to him personally,
if practicable, and by publication or otherwise, to appear and show
that the same was transferred to him in good faith and for a valu-
able consideration, before the service of the writ upon the trustee, or
be forever barred from such claim.
Sec. 23. If it shall not appear that the note was so transferred,
the maker shall be charged as the trustee of such debtor, and the
payment of the judgment rendered against him shall be a discharge
from the note or from such part thereof as is equal to the amount so
paid by him, and all costs taxed in his favor.
Sec. 24. If any such debtor shall not appear on notice, or shall
refuse to testify, he may be punished as for contempt of court.
Sec. 25. If by the depositions taken it appears that the property
for which the trustee is sought to be charged is claimed by a third
person, he shall, on motion and upon such terms as the court may
order, be admitted to defend his right, and may offer any evidence
in support thereof.
Sec. 26. If such claimant does not appear, the court may order
notice to be given to him personally, if practicable, otherwise by publication,
and in such other manner as they deem fit, to appear and
maintain his claim, or be forever barred therefrom.
Sec. 27. Any claimant as aforesaid, appearing voluntarily or upon
notice, shall, upon motion and such terms as the court may order,
be admitted as a party to maintain his claim, and may move for a trial
by jury ; and such trial shall be had upon an issue between the
plaintiff and the claimant, framed therefor under the direction of
tllC COUrt.
Sec. 28. If upon the depositions in the case and such issue
found it appears that the trustee had in his possession, at the time
of the service of the writ upon him, or at any time after, any money,
goods, chattels, rights, or credits of the defendant, he shall he ad
judged chargeable therefor.
Sec. 29. If by the depositions taken by the plaintiff and trustee
it appears that the trustee denies his liability as claimed by the plain
tiff, either of said parties, before a decision of the court, may move
for a trial by the jury.
Sec. 30. Upon such motion, an issue shall be framed under the
direction of the court, as to the liability of the trustee ; and upon the
trial the depositions taken by either party may be used as evidence.
Sec. 81. The trustee shall be adjudged chargeable or discharged,
upon the verdict, as he would have been upon such finding by the
court upon the depositions.
Sec. 32. If upon such verdict the trustee is adjudged chargeable
for a greater amount or for other property than he would have been
chargeable for upon his deposition, he shall be liable for costs ; other
wise he shall recover costs.
Sec. 33. If tho trustee is adjudged chargeable for any personal
property subject to mortgage, pledge, or other lien, the court may
appoint a receiver to dispose of the same, if more can be obtained
for it than the clairhs upon it.
Sec. 34. If the trustee is adjudged chargeable for any promis
sory note or other security for the payment of money, or any chose
in action upon which an execution cannot be levied, the court may
appoint a receiver to collect the same.
Sec. 35. If the person summoned as trustee shall refuse to de
liver to such receiver, agreeably to the order of court, any note, secu
rity for money, evidence of debt, chose in action, or other property,
he shall be adjudged trustee for the value thereof.
Sec. 36. The trustee adjudged chargeable shall retain in his hands
the sum or other articles than those for which a receiver is appointed,
for which he is so charged, until demanded of him upon execution
issued in said suit, or until said suit is otherwise terminated.
Sec. 37. The defendant or trustee may pay into court the sum
for which the trustee is charged, or the amount at which any specific articles for which he is charged may, under the direction of the
court, be appraised, or give bond with sureties to the acceptance of
the cour for the payment thereof, so far as the same may be required
to satis:y the judgment which may be recovered by the plaintiff
against die defendant, and the trustee shall be no further liable.
Sec. 88. If the trustee is adjudged chargeable for any specific articles in his possession, or which he is under contract to deliver to
tho defendant, the execution which may issue against the defendant
shall contain a precept to levy the same thereon, and the officer may
demand, receive, and sell the same upon such execution.
Sec. i>9. If the trustee neglects or refuses to deliver said articles
to the officer having such execution, on request, execution shall be
issued against him, upon notice, as for his own debt, for the value
thereof, and such damages as the court may order, and costs.
Sec. 40. When judgment is recovered by the plaintiff against the
defendant, execution in favor of the plaintiff may be issued against
the trustee for the amount for which he is adjudged chargeable, as
for his own debt, not exceeding the amount of said judgment against
the defendant, and against the defendant for any balance.
Sec. 41. The proceeds of any property in the hands of a receiver
for which the trustee was charged shall be applied, under the direc-
tion of the court, after paying costs, and charges, and prior liens, in
satisfaction of such judgment, and any surplus shall be paid to the
defendant.
Sec. 42. Costs may be awarded between the plaintiff and trustee,
or any claimant of property in the hands of the trustee, as may be
just.
Sec. 43. When it appears that the trustee has received the property
of the defendant, or a conveyance or bill of sale thereof, in
trust for the defendant, or by absolute conveyance wiih a secret
trust, or has done any other act in relation thereto with intent to aid
him in defeating or delaying a creditor, costs shall be taxed against
such trustee.
Sec. 44. The trustee shall recover his costs in all cases, except as
in this chapter provided, unless otherwise ordered by the court ; and
the same may be deducted from the amount for which he is charge-
able, or execution issued therefor, or be otherwise recovered, as the
court may order.
Sec. 45. If the trustee is adjudged chargeable for any liability
not due or payable, or other cause for delay exists, execution or
other proceedings in relation thereto may be stayed as equity requires,
Sec. 46. If any trustee dies pending the proceedings against him,
his executor or administrator may be summoned in as a party, and
he shall be liable as if the action had been brought against him as
trustee.
Sec. 47. No trustee shall be charged on account of any pension
or bounty money allowed under any law of the United States, until
the same has come into the actual possession of the person entitled
thereto.
Sec. 48. No trustee shall be charged on account of the personal
services or earnings of the wife of the defendant ; nor on account of
labor performed by*the defendant or any of his family after the service
of the writ on the trustee.
Sec. 49. When the trustee is sought to be charged for the labor
of the defendant or any of his family, in a suit founded on a claim
other than for necessaries furnished the defendant or any of his
family, there shall be reserved for the defendant the wages for such
labor, performed before such service of the writ, to the amount of
twenty dollars.
Sec. 50. Upon payment or delivery by the trustee of any money
or other property for which he is charged according to the provi-
sions of this chapter, by order of the court, he shall be discharged of
all claim of the defendant for the same, and in any suit therefor he
may give the special matter in evidence under the general issue.
Sec. 51. The provisions of this chapter, so far as they are appli-
cable to actions in justice and police courts, shall apply to actions and
proceedings therein and to process issued therefrom.
Sce. 52. When any trustee, in a writ issued by a justice or police
court, resides in another county, the writ and any execution issued
thereon against such trustee shall be directed to the sheriff of any
county or his deputy, or to any constable of the town in which the
trustee resides.
Sec. 53. In such case, the plaintiff shall file with the justice or
police court a bond to the trustee, in a sum and with sureties to
t,ne acceptance of said justice or court, conditioned to pay the costs
which the trustee may recover ; and a memorandum of the filing of
said bond shall be made and signed, by the justice or clerk of the
police court, on said writ, before service thereof on the trustee.
Sec. 54. No deposition taken under the provisions of this chapter
in, . r ... r . . . r .
snail be evidence upon any criminal prosecution, except upon an mdictment
of the deponent for perjury therein.
CHAPTER CCXXXI.
ACTIONS AGAINST TENANTS.
Section
1. Owner may determine lease at will, by no
tice to quit.
2. If rent in arrear, seven day's notice suffi
cient.
3. Or if lease violated.
4. Or lessee holds over.
5. Tenancy to be at will, unless different
shown.
G. Lesseo may terminate in same manner as
lessor.
7. Owner may recover possession, after notice
to quit.
8. Justice may issue summons, returnable in
seven days.
9. On default, plaintiff to have judgment for
possession, etc.
10. If plaintiff fails, judgment for defendant .
11. Defendant not to offer evidence of titlo
under general issue.
Section
12. If plea of title, defendant to recognize to
enter in supreme court.
13. If defendant refuses to recognize, judgment
against him.
14. Further proceedings to be in supremo court.
15. Appeal may be taken from judgment.
10. Plaintiff appealing, to recognize to enter,
etc.
17. Defendant appealing, to recognize to enter
and pay rent, etc.
18. Appellant to produce copies, etc.
19. Upon neglect, judgment affirmed.
20. If defendant pleads title or appeals, anil
plaintiff recovers, damages to be assessed.
21. llcmedy at common law not taken away.
22. When estate conveyed, grantee to havo
rights and remedies of grantor.
23. This chapter applies to all cases of land
wrongfully withheld.
Section 1. Any lessor or owner of any lands or tenements may
at any time determine any lease at will or tenancy at sufferance, by
giving to the tenant or occupant a notice in writing to quit the same
at a day therein named.
Sec. 2. If any tenant or occupant neglects or refuses to pay the
rent due and in arrear, upon demand, seven days' notice shall be suf
ficient. If the rent is payable more frequently than once in three
months, whether such rent is due or not due, thirty days' notice
shall be sufficient ; and three months' notice shall be sufficient in
all cases.
Sec. 3. If any lessee violates the condition of any written lease,
notice to quit at the end of seven days shall be sufficient and equiv
alent to an entry for condition broken.
Sec. 4. If any lessee holds over after the expiration of a definite
written lease, seven days' notice shall be sufficient.
Sec. 5. Every tenancy or occupancy shall be deemed to be at will,
and the rent payable upon demand, unless a different contract is
shown.
Sec. 6. Any lessee may terminate his lease by notice in writing,
in the same manner as the lessor, and such notice shall have the
same effect for all purposes as a notice by the lessor to the lessee.
Sec. 7. The owner or lessor of any tenement or real estate may
recover possession thereof, against any lessee or occupant holding
the same without right, after a notice to quit the same, in the man-
ner herein prescribed.
Sec. 8. A writ of summons may be issued, returnable before a
justice or police court, setting forth in substance that the plaintiff
is entitled to the possession of the demanded premises, and that the
defendant is in possession of the same without right, after notice in
writing to quit the same, which shall be served seven days before the
return day thereof.
Sec. 9. If the defendant makes default, or if on trial it is considered
by the justice or court that the plaintiff has sustained his
complaint, judgment shall be rendered that the plaintiff recover possession
of the demanded premises, and costs ; and a writ of posses
sion shall issue.
Sec. 10. If the plaintiff neglects to enter his action, or fails to
support the same, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant for
his costs. '
Sec. 11. Under the general issue, the defendant shall not offer
any evidence which may bring the title to the demanded premises in
J ,. J a f
question.
Sec. 12. If the defendant shall plead any plea which may bring
in question the title to the demanded premises, he shall recognize to
the plaintiff, with sufficient sureties, in such sum as the justice or
court shall order, to enter and prosecute said action at the next term
of the supreme court for the county, and to pay all rent then due or
which shall become due, pending said action, and the damages and
costs which may be awarded against liim.
Sec. 18. If the defendant neglects or refuses to recognize, judgment
shall be rendered against him in the same manner as if he had
refused to make answer to the suit.
Sec. 14. After the filing of such plea and the entry of such recog-
nizance, no further proceedings shall be had before such justice or
police court, but the action may be entered and prosecuted in the
supreme court in the same manner as if it were originally com
menced there.
Sec. 15. Any party aggrieved by the judgment of any justice or
police court upon issue joined in such case may, within two hours
after the rendition of such judgment, appeal therefrom.
Sec. 16. The plaintiff, before his appeal is allowed, shall recog-
nize to the defendant, with sufficient sureties, in such sum as the
justice or court may order, to enter and prosecute his appeal, and to
pay such costs as may be awarded against him.
Sec. 17. The defendant, before his appeal is allowed, shall recog-
nize to the plaintiff, with sufficient sureties, in such sum as the justice
or court may order, to enter and prosecute his appeal, and to pay
all rent then due or which may become due, pending such suit, and
such damages and costs as may be awarded against him.
-- » -- - - - .Sec.
18. The party appealing shall produce certified copies of the
i,„i« iijg g| l i_j x„ i *„ j.i,„„„ „«v>,.
whole case at the court appealed to, and cither party may there offer
any evidence in the same manner as if the cause had been originally
commenced therein.
Sec. 19. If the appellant neglects to enter his appeal or to pro
duce such copies, the court, on complaint of the appellee, shall affirm
the former judgment, with additional damages and costs.
Sec. 20. If any defendant files a plea of title or appeals, and the
plaintiff recovers judgment against him, the court shall cause his
damages, exemplary or otherwise, including a just compensation for
the use and detention of the property, and for any injury thereto, to
be assessed by the jury who try the issue, or otherwise, and may issue
execution therefor, or the same may be recovered on the recogni
zance taken as before provided.
Sec. 21. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent any
landlord from pursuing his legal remedy at common law.
Sec. 22. When the estate occupied by a tenant at will or suffer
ance is conveyed by the landlord, his grantee shall have the rights
and remedies which the grantor would have had, under the provisions
of this chapter, if the estate had not been conveyed.
Sec. 23. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any case
where one person is in possession of any land or tenement belonging
to another, and wrongfully withholds the possession thereof from the
owner, whether the relation of landlord and tenant ever existed be
tween the parties or not.
CHAPTER CCXXXII.
references and confession of debt.
Section
1. Controversies which may he subject of suit
may bo referred.
2. Agreement to refer may contain clause for
judgment in supreme court.
3. Specific demand submitted, to be inserted
or annexed.
4. If all demands, no specific statement neces
sary.
5. Neither party shall revoke.
C. Time and place of hearing may be agreed.
7. All referees to meet, but majority may re
port.
8. Referees have same powers as under rule of
court.
Section
0. Report to be delivered to court.
10. May be published before returned.
11. May be accepted, rejected) or recommitted.
12. Court to take cognizance, as of re]>ort under
role.
13. Referees to allow cosls as just.
14. Agreement may be to report to justice.
15. Confession ofjudgment made before justice.
16. Justice to keep record of confession and
report.
17. Execution issued by Justice to be served as
If from court.
Section 1. All controversies which may be the subject of a per
sonal action may be submitted to one or more referees, in the mode
prescribed in this chapter.
Sec. 2. The parties may insert in the agreement, indenture, or
bonds of reference, which shall be signed by them or their attorneys
for them, a clause to the following effect: " And the parties agree that
the award of said referees or the major part of them, in writing, may
be filed, with a motion for judgment thereon, in the supreme judi
cial court for the county of , and upon notice thereof to
the adverse party, the said court may render final judgment thereon."
Sec. 3. If a specific demand only is submitted, it may be inserted
in the agreement, or the same shall be signed by the party making
it, and annexed to the agreement, and such demand shall be as particular
in stating the substance of the claim in ^controversy as the
nature of the case will admit.
Sec. 4. If all demands between the parties are submitted to the
referees, no specific demand need be annexed to the agreement.
Sec. 5. Neither party shall have power to revoke the submission
without the consent of the other.
Sec. 6. The parties may agree upon and fix in said agreement
the time and place for the hearing for making an award thereon,
and may vary the form accordingly.
Sec. 7. All the referees must meet and hear the parties, unless
the parties otherwise agree, but a majority may make an award,
and their report shall be as valid as though signed by all the referees.
It shall appear on the face of the award, or by the certifi-
cate of the dissenting referee, that all of them attended and heard
the parties, unless the parties waive the same in writing on said
agreement.
Sec. 8. The referees shall have the same authority as those appointed
by rule of court, and any one of them may administer an oath
to witnesses in the cause.
Sec. 9. The report of the referees shall be delivered by one of
the referees to the court to which the same is to be returned according
to the agreement; or it shall bo sealed up by them and trans-
mitted to such court, and remain sealed until opened by the clerk.
Sec. 10. If the parties agree, the referees may make known
their determination prior to its being returned to the court as aforesaid,
and if the parties agree to settle their dispute accordingly,
said report need not be returned to court.
Sec. 11. The court to which any such report is made may ac-
cept, reject, or recommit the same for further consideration ; and the
referees, upon any recommitment, shall appoint a time and place for
a new hearing, and give the parties notice thereof, and the proceed-
ings thereupon shall be the same as in the original hearing.
Sec. 12. The court shall have the same cognizance of any such
report of referees as they would have if such report were made by
referees appointed under a rule from said court in a case pending
therein, and may render judgment and issue execution thereon.
Sec. 13. The referees may allow such costs as they deem reasonable,
unless restricted by the submission, and subject to the revision
of the court for good cause shown.
Sec. 14. In any case mentioned in the first section of this chap-
, * . . . f
tcr, the parties may enter into an agreement to submit the same to
referees as hereinbefore provided, and that the report of such referees
shall be made to a justice, and judgment by him rendered
thereon ; in which case the form of said agreement may be varied
accordingly. The referees shall proceed in the manner and possess
the powers as provided in case of a reference to be returned to the
supreme court, and the justice, upon receiving such report, shall ren
der judgment and issue execution thereon for damages and costs.
Sec. 15. Any person may voluntarily appear before any justice
for the county in which he resides, and confess that he is indebted
to any other person in a sum not exceeding two hundred dollars,
and consent that a record thereof be made, and execution issue ac
cordingly, or be stayed as said parties agree ; and the justice shall
make a fair record of such confession and agreement, which shall
be signed by the debtor and the creditor, or his agent, and shall en
ter up judgment and issue execution thereon,
^ec. 16. Every justice to whom any confession of debt or report
of referees is made as aforesaid shall keep a full and true record
thereof, signed and certified by himself.
" ■*
Sec. 17. Every execution issued by any justice as aforesaid may
* ^ •/ » •/ w
be served in the same manner as if issued by the supreme court.
CHAPTER CCX XXIII
HEARINGS DEFORE TOWN OFFICERS.
Section
1. Hearings before selectmen to be as herein
provided.
2. Time and plaeo to be appointed, notice
given, etc.
3. Notice to be posted.
4. Parties to be heard, and decision recorded.
Sectiojc
5. Fence viewers, etc., to proceed in like man
ner.
G. Decision to be binding live years, unless ap
peal.
7. No officer to act, if disqualified for juror.
8. Person to be substituted for officer disquali
fied.
Section 1. On petition to the selectmen for the laying out or al-
tering of highways, for laying out school-house lots or other lands
f01. public use, and generally for the purpose of deciding any ques
tion affecting the conflicting rights or claims of different persons,
their proceedings shall be governed by the following rules :
Sec. 2. They shall appoint a time and place of hearing, and or
der notice of such petition and hearing to be given to all persons
whose property or rights may be directly affected by such proceed
ing, by giving to them or leaving at their abode an attested copy
of such petition and order, fourteen days before such hearing.
Sec. 3. Notice shall be given to all others interested, by posting
a like copy, if it affect a town, at the usual place of the town meet
ing, or, if it affect a school district, on the door of the school-house
therein, and by leaving a like copy at the abode of the clerk of the
town or district respectively, the like time before the hearing.
Sec. 4. They shall hear all parties who desire to be heard, and
examine all parties and witnesses under oath, which either of such
selectmen may administer, may adjourn when they deem it necessary,
and shall make their decision in writing, and cause the petition,
order of notice, evidence of service, and their decision in writing to
be recorded at length upon the town records, and file the original
papers there ; and their decisions shall be of no force or effect until
tllC Same is done.
Sec. 5. The same rules shall apply to and govern the proceedings
°f feucc viewers, school committees, committees appointed by the
selectmen, and all town officers when they are applied to or ap-
pointed to decide any question affecting the rights or claims of indi-
viduals, saving that other or shorter notice, when required or allowed
by statute, shall be sufficient.
Sec. 6. The decision of such selectmen, fence viewers, school
committee, and other committees and town officers, shall be binding
and conclusive upon all parties for the term of five years, unless an
appeal shall be prosecuted therefrom in cases allowed by laAv.
Sec. 7. No selectman or other officer shall act, in the decision of
any such case, who would be disqualified to sit as a juror in the trial
of a civil action in which any of the parties interested in such case
was a party, from any cause except exemption from service as a
juror.
Sec. 8. The place of such selectman or person so disqualified
shall be supplied by those who are qualified to act, by the appoint-
ment of a qualified person who has heretofore holden the same office
in the town, or, in the case of committees, by a new appointment.
If in any case the whole board is disqualified, the selectmen shall
appoint a new board for that case, from qualified persons who have
before holden the same office.
Section 1. The supreme court has jurisdiction of all criminal
cases and proceedings ; but may dismiss any prosecution originally
commenced therein which is within the jurisdiction of a justice of
the peace and should be there prosecuted.
Sec. 2. At the trial of any person charged with a crime the punisliment
whereof may be death, two of the justices of said court
shall be present ; and the clerk of the court where such indictment
is found, and every justice who shall hold any person to answer for
such crime, shall forthwith certify the fact to the justices of said
court.
Sec 3. Said court has jurisdiction of all appeals, in criminal
cases, from police courts and justices of the peace.
Sec. 4. Every justice of the peace may hear and determine any
prosecution or action of a criminal nature, arising within his county
or triable therein, where the punishment is by line not exceeding
twenty dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by
both.
Sec. 5. Any justice may cause to be apprehended and committed
to iail, or bound over with sufficient sureties to the supreme court,
all persons charged with offences committed or triable in the county
exceeding his jurisdiction to try.
Sec. 6. Any justice of the peace throughout the state may issue
. c cr i i-i 1
Ins warrant tor any offence committed in any county, which may be
directed to the sheriff of any county or his deputy, or to any constable
or police officer of any town in the state.
Sec. 7. Every justice may render final judgment and sentence, in
any case where the fine does not exceed one hundred dollars, and is
fixed by law, if the accused pleads guilty, or nolo contendere.
Sec. 8. Police courts have the same jurisdiction as justices of the
peace have in their county and justices of the peace throughout the
state in any county, and exclusive cognizance of all crimes and of
fences committed within the. town in which such court is established,
so far as justices of the peace have jurisdiction.
Sec. 9. Criminal proceedings before a justice shall be commenced
by a complaint, signed and under oath, addressed to the justice or
court applied to, briefly setting forth by name or description, the
party accused, and the offence with which he is charged.
Sec. 10. The justice, upon such complaint, may issue a warrant
for the arrest of any person so charged with an offence committed
or triable in the county, directed to the sheriff or his deputy, or to
any constable or police officer of any town in the county.
Sec. 11. If such warrant is issued by a police court, or by any
justice within the town in which such police court is established, it
shall be made returnable before such police court, and not elsewhere.
Sec. 12. In other cases, such warrant shall require the offender to
be brought before the justice issuing the same, or before a police
court or some justice either generally or specially designated, for
trial or examination.
Sec. 13. In any such warrant, the officer may be required to sum-
mon certain persons therein named as witnesses to attend the trial,
Sec. 14. Any justice, upon proof that a warrant was issued by a
justice of another county, may indorse thereon a warrant to all offleers
of his county to arrest the accused, and bring him before
some justice of the county in which the offence is charged to be
committed, or deliver him to some officer of that county, to be by
him conveyed before such justice.
Sec. 15. Upon complaint for any offence punishable by fine not
exceeding twenty dollars, the justice, if he shall deem an arrest un-
necessary, may issue a summons requiring the party to appear at a
certain time and place, to answer such complaint ; and if such party,
being summoned by delivering to him an attested copy of such
summons, shall not appear, the justice may hear the evidence, and
acquit or convict such person as if present, and issue execution for
the fine and costs.
Sec. 16. Any warrant against a minor may require the parent or
guardian of such minor to be summoned to attend the examination
or trial, by delivering to him an attested copy of such warrant, and
the complaint, if annexed thereto, and such parent or guardian, be
ing so summoned, may be adjudged to pay the fine and costs im
posed, and execution may issue against him therefor.
CHAPTER CCXXXV.
POLICE OFFICERS AND WATCHMEN.
Section
1. Special police officers appointed.
2. Superintendent, his duties.
3. Police officers, how appointed.
4. Official term.
5. Vacancies, how filled.
6. Powers and fees.
Section
7. To make regulations; penalty for violation.
8. Regulations not to take effect until ap
proved by selectmen, etc.
9. Watchmen, how appointed.
10. Their powers.
11. To make arrests.
Section 1. The selectmen of any town, when they deem it nec
essary, may appoint special police officers, one of whom may be su
perintendent, and they shall continue in office during the pleasure
of the selectmen.
Sec. 2. The selectmen, or superintendent under their direction,
may employ such special police officers, in such mode as may be
deemed expedient, in the detection and conviction of criminals and
the prevention of crime in their town, or they may be employed in
the preservation of order on public or special occasions.
Sec. 3. In towns where the law relating to offences against the
police of towns is in force, the selectmen shall appoint police officers
not exceeding seven, who may be removed at the pleasure of the se
lectmen.
Sec. 4. Such appointment shall be made in March, unless other
wise provided by law or by a by-law, by writing, under the hands of
the selectmen, and recorded, with a certificate of the oath of office
thereon, by the town-clerk ; and such police officers shall hold their
offices for one year, unless sooner removed.
Sec. 5. If such appointment is not made at the time appointed,
or if a vacancy shall occur, the selectmen may appoint at any time
afterward.
Sec. 6. All police officers are, by virtue of their appointment,
constables and conservators of the peace, and shall receive such
compensation as may be voted by the town, and the same fees as
constables.
Sec. 7. The police officers of any town may make regulations for
the stand of hacks, drays, and carts, in any street, lane, or alley ; for
the height and position of any awning, shade, or fixture in front of or
near any building, and respecting any obstruction in any street, lane,
or alley, and the smoking of any cigar or pipe therein, or in any sta
ble or other out-building, and every violation of such regulations may
be punished by fine of from one to twenty dollars, or by imprison
ment from five days to six months.
Sec. 8. No such regulations shall take effect until they are ap-
proved by the selectmen, recorded with such approbation by the townclerk,
and published, or, if no newspaper is printed in the town, a ccrtified
copy thereof posted at two or more public places therein.
Sec. 9. The selectmen of any town, being authorized by vote of
the town, may appoint watchmen for a walking night watch, and fix
their stations and limits, prescribe their duties, and contract for and
pay them a reasonable compensation.
Sec. 10. They shall be appointed and qualified in the same manner,
and shall have while on duty the same powers, as police officers,
Sec. 11. Every watchman may arrest any person whom he shall
find committing any kind of disorder or disturbance, or any crime
or offence, or such as are strolling about the streets at unreasonable
hours, who refuse to give an account, or may be reasonably suspected
of giving a false account, of their business or design, or who can give
no account of the occasion of their being abroad.
CHAPTER CCXXXVI.
ARRESTS IN CRIMINAL CASES.
Section
1. OInoers, meaning of.
2. May require aid.
:>. Arrests on view of ofl'ence.
4. Persons arrested at night, how detained.
5. Request of otlicer authority to detain.
G. When taken before a court.
7. Justice on view may order arrest.
Section
S. Persons so commanded may arrest.
9. Officer with warrant may arrest anywhere.
10. Arresting, to bring before court.
11. May pass through any county.
12. Justice out of county may bind over.
13. May order hearing.
14. Duty of officer in such case.
Section 1. By the word " officer," in this title, shall be intended
any sheriff or deputy sheriff, mayor, or city marshal, constable, police
officer, or watchman, or other person authorized to make arrests in
any criminal case.
Sec. 2. Every officer in the execution of his office, in any criminal
case, may require suitable aid ; and if any person, when so required,
shall not give such aid, he shall be fined not exceeding ten dollars.
Sec. 3. Any officer, upon view of any crime or breach of the peace
or offence against the police of towns, may arrest the offender, and
forthwith carry him before the proper court or justice to answer for
the offence.
Sec. 4. If such arrest shall be made between sunset and sunrise,
the person so arrested may be committed to the common jail, or
bridewell, or house of correction, or otherwise detained in custody
not exceeding twenty-four hours, within which time he shall be dis
charged or taken before a court or justice to answer for the offence.
5. The request of the officer making such arrest shall be a
sufficient authority for any keeper of a jail, bridewell, house of cor
rection, or other officer or person, for keeping such person in custody
agreeably to the preceding section.
Sec. 6. In all other cases, the officer arresting any offender with
out warrant shall promptly carry him before the police court or a
justice, that a complaint may be made for the offence, and if he neg
lects to do so he shall forfeit fifty dollars.
Sec. 7. Any justice, upon view of any breach of the peace, or other
transgression of the law proper for his cognizance, or, when neces
sary for the preservation of the peace, may command any officer or
other person to arrest, detain, and bring before him such offender,
until complaint can be made against him.
Sec. 8. Every officer or person, upon such command, may arrest
and detain such offender ; and if he shall not obey such command
he shall be subject to the same penalty as for disobeying an officer.
Sec. 9. Any officer to whom any warrant for the arrest of any
offender may be addressed has power to arrest such person at any
time and in any place ; and shall have, in any county, the same pow
ers in relation to such process as an officer of that county.
Sec. 10. Every officer making an arrest, or holding any person in
custody for any offence under a warrant, shall bring the accused be
fore the court or justice directed therein, without unreasonable delay,
and there detain him for trial or examination until relieved by such
justice or court.
Sec. 11. Any officer, having made an arrest under a warrant to
him directed, may, if convenient, convey the prisoner through any
town or county ; and in respect to such prisoner shall have the
powers of an officer of such town or county.
Sec. 12. If any person is arrested in one county, on a warrant for
any offence alleged to be committed in another county, the officer, on
his request, shall take him before a justice for the county in which
he is arrested, and, upon his waiving an examination, such justice
may take his recognizance, with sufficient sureties, for his appear
ance at the next supreme court for the county in which the offence
is alleged to be committed, and return to said court certified copies
of said warrant and recognizance.
Sec. 13. Such justice may, upon good cause shown, take the recog
nizance of such party to appear before the court or justice named in
such warrant, on some day and hour named, within ten days follow
ing, and shall certify the fact upon the warrant, and deliver the
same, with the recognizance, to the officer.
Sec. 14. The officer shall forthwith deliver the warrant and recog
nizance to the justice who issued the warrant, who may thereupon
summon before him and order to recognize any witness that he may
deem necessary to appear at the same time and place.
Section 1. Any justice may issue his warrant for searching any
place or places therein described, in the daytime, upon complaint
under oath that any person or goods liable to arrest or seizure are
therein kept or concealed, or are believed to be so, in the following
cases : —
i. Where any goods or property are believed to have been stolen,
embezzled, or falsely obtained.
n. Where any false, forged, or counterfeited bank bills, notes, or
coin, or worthless and uncurrcnt bank bills or notes, or any plates,
dies, or other tools, instruments, implements, or materials designed
for the forging or making false and counterfeit notes, bills, or coin,
arc believed to be there kept or concealed.
m. Where any gambling is believed to be carried on, or any gambling
implements, burglars' tools, or the like, are believed to be so
kept or concealed.
iv. Where any spiritous or intoxicating liquors, or implements for
the manufacture thereof, or casks, bottles, measures, or other things
adapted for the illegal keeping or sale of such liquor, are believed
to be so kept or concealed.
v. Where gunpowder, in a quantity or manner forbidden by law,
is kept in any building in the compact part of any town or village,
or in any vessel lying in any port.
vi. Where any offender or the subject matter of any offence is
so concealed.
Sec. 2. Upon like complaint, and satisfactory evidence that any
such property or thing, or any criminal is concealed in a particular
house or place, and may escape or be removed before day, such jus-
tice may issue his warrant for searching such house or place in the
night-time.
Sec. 3. Such warrant shall require the officer to take with him
suitable assistants, and to suffer no others to be with him, and to make
return of his proceedings thereon, with an inventory of such things
sought as shall there bo found, and of such things as, being liable to
seizure, have been taken by him, and are in his custody.
Sec. 4. All goods so seized shall be kept, under the direction of
jt ■ . • 1 /» t ,i 1 t 1 i i />
the court or justice belore whom the party charged may be held for
trial, by the said officer or some other proper officer, so long as may
be necessary for the purposes of justice, when all stolen goods shall
be restored to the owner.
Sec. 5. False, forged, and counterfeited bank bills, or notes, plates,
dies, or other tools, instruments, or implements used by counterfeit
ers, or designed for the forging or making of false or counterfeit
notes, bills, or coin, worthless and uncurrent bank bills or notes,
gambling implements, and burglars' tools and the like, may be so
seized, and having been kept so long as the purposes of justice re
quire, the court shall cause the same to be destroyed by some officer,
who shall make return of his doings in the premises.
^EC- ®* Any officer who shall find any implement, article, or thing,
made, kept, used, or designed to be used, in violation of law or in
the commission of any offence, in the possession of or belonging
to any person arrested or liable to be arrested for such offence or
violation of law, shall bring such implement, article, or thing before
the justice or court having jurisdiction of the offence, who shall
make such order respecting its custody or destruction as justice may
require.
^EC' ^ ' just'cc> ul>011 complaint made on oath by any person,
that he has reasonable ground for suspecting that any deceased per-
son wj1Q jiag jjccn m(crrecj came ro ],js death by some unlawful
means, may issue his warrant, requiring that such body shall be dis
interred and examined, and may summon and examine witnesses in
relation to the truth of such complaint.
CHAPTER CCXXXVIII
SURETY OF THE PEACE.
Sectiox
1. Any one fearing injury may complain.
2.Justlce may require sureties.
3. Accusod may appeal.
4. Court may affirm or change order.
5. On fiulure to prosecute appeal, costs.
Section
0. Party finding sureties, discharged.
7. Recognizance to be tiled.
8. Persona sentenced, etc., to recognize.
9. Court may order sureties, when.
10. Surety may commit principal.
Section 1. Any one fearing that another person may do injury to
himself, his family, or property, may make his complaint thereof,
under oath, before a justice, who shall, by warrant, cause the person
accused to bo brought before him for examination.
Sec. 2. If upon hearing the parties and their evidence it appears
to such justice there is just cause to fear that such offence may be
committed, he may order such party to recognize, with sufficient
sureties, in a reasonable sum, to keep the peace toward all the people
of the state, and especially toward the complainant, for a term not
exceeding one year, to pay costs of prosecution, and to stand com
mitted till the order is complied with.
Sec. 3. The party so ordered to recognize may appeal to the su
preme court at the trial term next to be holden for the county, on
giving the security required by the order, and to pay such costs as
may be awarded against him on such appeal.
Sec. 4. Said court, on hearing the case, may affirm such order,
Or discharge the appellant, or require him to enter into a new rc-
cognizance, with sufficient sureties, in such sum and for such time as
they may think proper ; and may make such order in relation to the
costs of prosecution as may be deemed just.
Sec. o. If the appellant fails to prosecute his appeal, his recog,
.rr. „ 1,1 , j i_ r
nizance shall remain in torce, and the court may award such costs to
the complainant as they deem just.
Sec. 6. Any person committed for not finding sureties or refusing
• j i ,i • i i •
to recognize, as required by the court or magistrate, may recognize
agreeably to such order before any justice, and shall be discharged
on payment of the costs of his application.
Sec. 7. Every recognizance taken in pursuance of the foregoing
provisions shall be transmitted by the justice to the supreme court
for the county, on or before the first day of the next trial term, and
there filed by the clerk.
Sec. 8. Any person sentenced by a justice or court for any crim-
inal offence, or ordered to recognize for his appearance before the
same or another court, may be required to recognize to keep the
peace and be of good behavior for such time as the court or justice
may direct.
Sec. 9. Any person who, in the presence of any court or justice,
makes an affray, or threatens to kill or beat another, or to commit
any violence or outrage to person or property, or contends with hot
and angry words to the disturbance of the peace, may be ordered,
without process or any other proof, to recognize for keeping the
peace and being of good behavior for a term not exceeding three
months, and to stand committed till the order is complied with.
Sec. 10. A surety, in a recognizance to keep the peace, may commit
the principal to the common jail, and shall be discharged in the
same manner as sureties in other recognizances in criminal cases.
CHAPTER CCXXXIX.
SUPPRESSION OF RIOTS.
Section
1. Peace officers to command those assembled
to depart.
2. To arrest and disperse rioters.
"A. To order out militia.
4. If rioters killed, ofllcors guiltless.
5. If officers killed, rioters liable.
Section
6. Civil officers, neglect of duty.
7. Presence at any mob, how punished.
8. Promoting and leading mob, how punished.
9. Remaining after proclamation, how pun
ished.
10. Rioters testifying, not to be prosecuted.
Section 1. When twelve or more persons, any of them armed
with clubs or dangerous weapons, or thirty or more, armed or not,
are anywhere unlawfully, riotously, or tumultuously assembled,
every mayor, alderman, selectman, justice, constable, city marshal,
police officer, sheriff", or deputy sheriff having authority to act in
that place, shall go among the persons so assembled, or as near to
them as they can safely go, and in the name of the state command
all persons there assembled to separate from the mob, and place
themselves under the orders of the peace officers and in the places
directed by them, or depart immediately and peaceably to their
homes.
Sec. 2. The said officers, and each of them, shall exert themselves
to suppress such riot, and to arrest and secure all persons who have
taken any part therciu, or who shall refuse to obey their orders.
They may command any person to assist in arresting and securing
such rioters, and shall forthwith organize and arm, with such weap
ons as can be obtained, such citizens as shall place themselves under
their order, as the power of the county, and resist, repel, and sup
press such riotous assembly.
Sec. 3. Whenever, in the opinion of the governor, judge of any
court of record, sheriff, mayor, or any three selectmen, aldermen,
justices, or other officers before named, there shall be occasion, they
may order any military company to appear with their arms, or may
organize companies of volunteers, to assist in suppressing such riot,
who shall forthwith assemble, and shall be under the orders of the
civil officers engaged in suppressing such riot.
Sec. 4. If, in the effort made to suppress such assembly, and to
arrest and secure the persons composing it, though the number be
less than twelve, any such person or any other person is killed or
wounded, or any injury is done to persons or property, said magis
trates, officers, and persons acting with them, shall be held guiltless
and justified in law.
Sec. 5. If any of said magistrates, officers, or persons acting with
them in such efforts, are killed or wounded, all persons, so unlawfully
assembled shall be liable, civilly and criminally, as prescribed
by law.
Sec. 6. Any mayor, alderman, selectman, justice of any court or
of the peace, sheriff, deputy sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal, con-
stable, or police officer, having notice of any unlawful assembly, mob,
or riot, in any place where he is authorized to act, refusing or neg
lecting to do his duty therein as prescribed by law, shall be fined
not exceeding three hundred dollars.
^EC' ^' "^ny Per80n wno s^all be present at any riot, mob, or unlawful
and tumultuous assembly, and shall not aid in suppressing
the same, shall be fined not exceeding fifty dollars, or imprisoned
not exceeding three months.
Sec. 8. Any person who shall promote, aid, or encourage any riot
Or mob, or take any lead, direction, or control of such mob, by word
or ac*) or attempt so to do, or who shall be armed or disguised
therein, shall be liable criminally as a principal for any crime or
offence which may be committed by such mob, or any of them.
^EC- ^' ^ Pers011 shall continue unlawfully, riotously, and
tumultuously assembled, after proclamation made by any peace ofncer
t° disperse, or shall wilfully obstruct such peace officer, known
or openly declared by himself to be such, in making such proclama
tion, he shall be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, and im
prisoned not exceeding one year.
Sec. 10. Any person participating in any riot, who shall be called
by the state to testify as a witness upon the trial of any person for
taking part therein, testifying fully in relation thereto, shall not be
liable to any prosecution therefor.
Section 1. When any accused person is brought before a court or
justice, upon a warrant, for trial or examination, the proceedings
may be adjourned for cause, from time to time, as shall be judged
reasonable, and the accused may be detained in custody, or required
to recognize, with or without sureties, for his appearance, as the
nature of the case may require.
Sec. 2. Any person sentenced for any offence, by a police court Or
justice of the peace, may, at the time of declaring such sentence,
appeal therefrom to the supreme court, at the trial term next to be
holden for such county, without regard to the judicial district in
which the proceedings were commenced.
Sec. 3. Before such appeal is allowed, the appellant shall enter
into recognizance, with sufficient sureties, in a reasonable sum, not
exceeding one hundred dollars, for his appearance at the court of ap-
peal, to prosecute his appeal with effect, to abide the order of the
court thereon, and to be of good behavior in the meantime, if so re
quired.
Sec. 4. If such appellant fails to enter and prosecute his appeal,
a record thereof shall be made, his recognizance declared forfeited,
the clerk of the court shall transmit to the justice appealed from his
certificate of such forfeiture, and the same being recorded by such
justice, he shall add to the cost the fees for the copies sent to the
clerk, fifty cents to the clerk for his certificate, fifty cents to the jus
tice for recording the same, and shall issue a mittimus or other pro
cess to carry into effect the original sentence, with such increased
costs.
Sec. 5. If just cause appears to the police court or justice to hold
the accused to answer at the supremo court for an offence not within
the jurisdiction of such police court or justice to determine, and the
same is not bailable by such police court or justice, he shall be com
mitted by warrant to the county jail.
Sec. 6. If the offence is bailable by such police court or justice,
the accused shall be ordered to recognize, with sufficient sureties, in
a reasonable amount, for his appearance at the supreme court, at the
next trial term thereof for the county, and to stand committed till
the order is complied with ; but if no grand jury is required to at
tend the next trial term, parties and witnesses shall be ordered to
recognize to appear at the next succeeding term.
Sec. 7. If such order is not complied with in a reasonable time,
the court or justice, by warrant, shall cause the offender to be com
mitted to the common jail till he comply therewith.
^EC- Such offender may at any time recognize agreeably to
such order, before any justice, and thereupon such justice shall issue
his warrant for the discharge of such prisoner, and he shall be dis
charged from custody,
Sec. 9. In any case of appeal, or order to recognize for appear-
ance before the supremo court, the police court or justice shall cause
true an<^ attested copies of all the process, records, and recogni-
zances in the case to be filed with the clerk of said supreme court, on
or before the first day of the next trial term thereof,
Sec. 10. The justice issuing an order for the discharge of any
prisoner, shall file in the office of the clerk of the supreme court for
the county in which the offence is alleged to be committed, true and
attested copies of the application to him to take such recognizance,
of the order by him made thereon, of the recognizance taken, and a
note of the warrant of discharge by him issued.
^EC' If any justice knowingly accepts insufficient bail, or fails
^ make re£urn 0f uis proceedings as required by law, he shall be
liable to the same punishment as for aiding an escape in a like case.
Sec. 12. Upon the examination of any party for any offence be
yond the jurisdiction of the justice to decide, the testimony of each
witness examined may be reduced to writing by the magistrate, or
under his direction, when he deems it necessary, and shall be signed
by the witness, or a note made of his refusal.
Sec. 13. Every police court or iustice may take the examination
i 1 j • i ,i ■. j
in writing 01 such accused person, in any case where the magnitude
of the offence or the special circumstances of the case may seem to
require it, if the accused, after being cautioned, consents thereto.
Sec. 14. In every such case, the accused shall be distinctly cautioned
by the court or justice that he is not bound to answer any
questions in any way relating to the charge unless he chooses ; but
that the questions and answers will be written and preserved, and
may be evidence upon his trial, and he should therefore answer
truly.
Sec. 15. Such party consenting to be examined shall be sworn
that the answers he shall give to such questions as may be asked
him shall be the whole truth, and nothing but the truth; but it shall
always be a sufficient answer that he declines to answer the ques
tion ; and if at any time he declines to answer further, the exami
nation shall cease.
Sec. 16. Whenever any justice commits or binds over any per8011
ror trial, he shall take the recognizances of all necessary wifr-
nesses wn0 appear before him, for their appearance at the trial term
of the supreme court, in such sum as he may think reasonable,
Sec. 17. If any person, upon being ordered by any justice to reoognize,
neglects or refuses to do so, the justice may issue his warrant,
an(j cause sucij person to be committed to jail until he comply with
such order.
Sec. 18. All prisoners arrested for crime shall, before conviction,
be bailable by sufficient sureties, except for capital offences where
the proof is evident or the presumption great.
Sec. 19. Where any person is charged with an offence punishable
by death, or imprisonment for life or for twenty years or upward,
the supreme court or any justice thereof, aud no other court or justice,
upon application and notice to the attorney-general or solicitor,
and examination of such evidence as may be laid before them, may
determine the amount of the bail, and take the recognizance re
quired, or authorize the clerk or any suitable justice to take the
same.
Sec. 20. Upon any examination, the witnesses for or against the
accused, or any of them, may be kept separate during the examina-
tion, and separately examined ; or any of the witnesses may be kept
from the room during the examination of others, as the court or jus
tice shall order.
CHAPTER CCXLI.
recognizances and bail.
Section
1. Recognizance of bail to be taken.
2. In name of the state, with sureties,
rt. From term to term.
4. Or other form, as court onler.
5. Minors and married women bound.
G. Bail discliarged by surrender in court-.
7. By commitment and notice.
8. Jailer authorized to dotain.
0. Default of appearance to be recorded, etc.
Sfctios
10. May be struck ofl".
11. Judgment for all or part of forfeiture.
12. Bail discharged, when.
13. Persons unable to find sureties discharged.
11. Suits on recognizances, where brought.
15. On recognizances not defeated, when.
16. Warrant against party failing to appear.
17. Form of suits on recognizances.
Section 1. Every court aud justice may require any person accused
of any offence in which he is authorized to receive bail to rec-
ognize, with sureties, to appear at a future time before himself or
any other competent tribunal.
Sec. 2. Every recognizance shall bo taken in the name of the
state, and with sufficient sureties, unless, in proper cases, the recog-
irteance of the party shall be deemed by the supreme court to be
sufficient.
Sec. 3. Such recognizance may be taken, with condition to attend
the court or before such justice, at the next term, or from term to
term, or at a fixed day, or from day to day, to which the case may
be continued, and there wait and abide the order of the court, and
not depart without leave until discharged by order of court.
Sec. 4. Such recognizance may be taken in any other form which
the court or justice, considering the circumstances of the case, may
direct or allow.
Sec. 5. Minors and married women, and those who recognize
with them as sureties, shall be bound by their recognizances in the
same manner as if the principals were of full age and unmarried.
Sec. 6. Bail for the appearance of a party or witness may be discharged
by order of the supreme court, from further liability, upon
surrendering such party in open court, during the pendency of the
original cause and before trial, on payment of the costs of any pro-
ceeding against them, and the principal shall be committed unless
again recognized.
Sec. 7. Such sureties may be discharged in vacation, before forfeiture
of the recognizance, by committing the principal to the common
Jau °f *ne county, leaving with the jailer a certified copy of the
order to recognize, and of the names of the bail, and a certificate of
the bail thereon, that he has committed the principal in discharge
of his liability as bail, and giving written notice thereof to the at
torney-general or solicitor for the county.
^EC- ^' ^e C0P*es an^ certificate aforesaid shall be a sufficient
authority for the keeper of such jail to detain the party committed
therein, till he shall be discharged by due order of law ; and the ac
cused may be again recognized with sureties, agreeably to the origi
nal order of the court or justice requiring such recognizance,
Sec. 9. If any party recognized to appear makes default, the re-
cognizance shall be declared forfeited, and a record of the default
and forfeiture made and certified to the county commissioners, who
shall cause such proceedings to be had for the recovery of the for
feiture as the interest of the county requires.
Sec. 10. Any court, for good cause, may strike off a default upon
such recognizance, or order the same to be struck off at a future day,
upon a substantial compliance with the condition, in which case no
certificate shall be made to the county commissioners.
^EC' ^ne supreme court may render judgment for the whole
amount of anv forfeited recognizance, and interest and costs, or for
such part thereof as, after hearing the county commissioners' and
state's counsel, they may think proper, according to any special cir
cumstances in evidence affecting the case or the party liable.
Sec. 12. When the sureties in a recognizance, without their fault,
are prevented from surrendering their principal, by the act of God,
or of the government of the state, or of the United States, or by the
sentence of law, the supreme court, on petition and notice thereof to
the county commissioners and state's counsel, may discharge them on
such terms as may be deemed just.
^EC* ^a*^ cour* or anv justice thereof, upon petition and 110tice
to the solicitor, prosecutor, or party interested, may order the
discharge of any person imprisoned for inability to find sureties in a
recognizance, upon such terms as may be deemed just.
^EC* Suits upon recognizances may be brought and tried in
the county in which they were taken, unless the court, in their dis
cretion, order the venue to be changed to some adjoining county.
Sec. 15. No action on any recognizance shall be defeated, nor
judgment thereon arrested, for any omission to record a default at
the proper term, nor for any defect in the form of the recognizance
or of the scire facias ; but the court may order the record or process
to be amended agreeably to the facts, without costs,
Sec. 16. Any court or justice may issue a warrant for the arrest
of any person under recognizance, to appear before them, who fails
to appear according to the condition thereof, or of any person who,
being party to any criminal proceedings, is, by escape or otherwise,
improperly at large.
Sec. 17. In actions brought upon recognizances taken in criminal
prosecutions, it shall be sufficient to set forth in the writ the substance
of the recognizance, and the time and place at which the
same was declared forfeited, without setting forth the complaint or
indictment, or any subsequent proceedings thereon.
Section 1. No person shall be tried for any offence, the punish- C
ment of which may be death or imprisonment for more than One m
year, unless upon an indictment found against him by the grand jury a
of the county in which the offence is committed or is triable.
Sec. 2. Grand jurors shall be drawn, summoned, and returned in n
the same manner as jurors for trials ; and talesmen not exceeding k
five may be returned by the sheriff or other officer attending the court c
under their direction.
Sec. 3. In case of emergency, venires may be issued for grand v
jurors to be drawn and notified and to attend forthwith, as in case F
of petit jurors. c
Sec. 4. No grand iury shall be summoned to attend the January n
I
term of the supreme court in the county of Rockingham, nor the t
October term for the western judicial district, nor the May term for i
the eastern judicial district in the county of Grafton, nor the August
term for the northern judicial district, nor the April term for the
southern judicial district in the county of Coos, unless by order of
court.
Sec. 5. The grand juror's oath shall be as follows : —
"You, as grand jurors for the body of this county, do solemnly R
swear that you will diligently inquire, and a true presentment make
of all such matters and things as shall be given you in charge ; the
state's counsel, your fellows', and your own you shall keep secret;
you shall present no man for envy, hatred, or malice ; neither shall
you leave any unpresented for love, fear, favor, affection, or hope of
reward ; but you shall present things truly as they come to your
knowledge, according to the best of your understanding. So help
you God."
Sec. 6. The foreman of the grand jury, the prosecuting officer,
or any justice upon the jury may administer oaths to witnesses to
be examined before them. "
Sec. 7. The grand jury may appoint one of their number to be
clerk, to preserve minutes of the proceedings before them, which
shall be delivered to the attorney-general or solicitor.
Sec. 8. Indictments and prosecutions, for offences punishable by
fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, or by imprisonment not ex-
ceeding six months, shall be found or commenced within one year,
and all other informations and indictments, except for treason, mur-
der, rape, arson, robbery, or burglary, shall be filed or found within
six years after the offence is committed ; but the time during which
the party charged was not usually and publicly resident within this
state shall not be reckoned as part of the times aofresaid.
^EC' ®" Offenders shall be prosecuted and tried in the county in
which the offence was committed. But if any person is feloniously
stricken, wounded, or poisoned in one county and dies thereof in
another, or, if parts of any offences are committed in more than one
county, the offence shall be deemed to have been committed, the of
fender may be prosecuted, and the trial had, in either county.
^EC- ^n indictment, information, or complaint is sufficient, if
se*s ™rtn *ne on°cnce fully, plainly, substantially, and formally ;
and it is not necessary to set forth therein the special statute, by
law, or ordinance on which it is founded,
^EC" ^hcn an intent to defraud is necessary to constitute any
offence, it is sufficient to allege in the indictment or information
1
such intent generally, and proof of an intent to defraud some per
son or body corporate is competent to support such indictment or
information.
^EC* ^ *s no* necessary, m any indictment for assault and battery,
to allege that any preliminary proceedings have been had in the
t c -i- T i
case belore a justice or police court.
Sec. 13. No indictment, complaint, return, process, judgment, or
°*;ner proceeding, in any criminal case in the courts or course of jus-
tice, shall be abated, quashed, or reversed for any error or mistake,
where the person and case may be rightly understood by the court,
nor through any defect or want of form or addition ; and courts and
Justices may> 011 motion, order amendments in any such case,
Sec. 14. In indictments for causing the death of any person, it is
not necessary to set forth the manner in which or the means by
which the death of the deceased was caused ; but it is sufficient, in
eveiT indictment for murder, to charge that the defendant did feloniously,
wilfully, and of his malice aforethought, kill and murder the
deceased, and in every indictment for manslaughter to charge tbat
the defendant did feloniously kill and slay the deceased.
CHAPTEE CCXLIII.
ARRAIGNMENT AND TRIAL.
Section
1. Prisoner to have copy of indictment, etc.
2. Arraigned before one judge.
3. Mute, not guilty entered.
4. Minor to hare guardian.
5. May plead guilty of less offence.
6. Petit jurors, who may be and how examined.
7. Petit jurors' oath in criminal cases.
8. Prisoner may challengo peremptorily.
Section
9. The state may challengo peremptorily.
10. None but respondent disqualified as a wit
ness.
11. Witnesses for state to rebut.
12. Jury kept separate, if court so order.
13. Poor persons only to have process at public
Section 1. Every person indicted for any offence the punishment
°^ wnich may be death shall be entitled to a copy of the indictment
before he is arraigned thereon ; a list of the witnesses to be used on
the trial, and of the jurors returned to serve on the same, with the
name and place of abode of each, to be delivered to him twenty-four
hours before the trial ; counsel learned in the law, not exceeding
two, to be assigned him by the court, at his request, who shall have
access to him at all reasonable hours ; and such process from the
court to compel witnesses to appear and testify at the trial as is
usually granted on behalf of the state.
Sec. 2. A person indicted for a capital crime maybe arraigned
before the court holden by one justice, and, if he pleads guilty, such
court may award sentence against him according to law. If he does i
not plead guilty the court may assign him counsel, and take all other
measures preparatory to a trial, to be had before two justices.
Sec. 3. When any person indicted stands mute or refuses to plead,
the court shall order the plea of not guilty to be entered, and it shall
have the same effect as if he had pleaded not guilty.
Sec. 4. No minor under the age of sixteen years, or person sup-
posed to be of unsound mind, shall be permitted to plead guilty, or
be put upon his trial until counsel have been appointed to advise him
and conduct his defence ; and if such person is poor, witnesses may,
on motion of such counsel, be summoned in his behalf at the ex
pense of the county.
Sec. 5. Any person indicted may plead guilty of any minor of-
fence which is included in the indictment, and if such plea is accepted
by the state's counsel, judgment may be rendered thereon as
upon a verdict finding such offence ; but if the plea shall not be ac
cepted it may be withdrawn, and a plea of not guilty entered, and
in such case the former plea shall not operate against him on his
trial.
Sec. 6. Petit jurors attending the court may be impanelled for
the trial of any criminal case, and may be examined, as in civil cases
and otherwise, as to their fitness and capacity to perform the duty
of jurors on the trial.
Sec. 7. The petit jurors' oath in criminal cases shall be as follows:-
" You solemnly swear that you will well and truly try, and true
deliverance make between the state of New-Hampshire and the pris-
oner at the bar, whom you shall have in charge, according to law
and the evidence given you. So help you God."
Sec. 8. Every person arraigned and put on trial, for any offence
which may be punishable by death, except he stands wilfully mute,
may, in addition to challenges for cause, peremptorily challenge
twenty, and in any other case the accused may so challenge two, of
the jurors.
Sec. 9. In the trial of all criminal cases by jury, the state, in ad-
dition to challenges for cause, shall be entitled to two peremptory
challenges.
Sec. 10. No person except the respondent shall be disqualified
as a witness upon the trial of any offence, bv reason of any interest
in the event of the trial.
Sec. 11. Witnesses may be called in behalf of the state to re-
but or explain any evidence of new matter offered by the defendant,
"or to discredit his witnesses, though the names of such witnesses
have not been furnished the defendant ; but time may be allowed
the defendant to answer such evidence, if in the opinion of the court
justice shall require it.
Sec. 12. The iury impanelled to try any case in which the punish-
J- J r- - J J- — 1
ment may be death may be kept separate from all other persons during
the trial, if, upon cause shown, the court shall so order, and not
otherwise.
Sec. 13. No person indicted for any offence shall be entitled to
i
process from the court to compel the attendance of witnesses at the
expense of the county, unless he shall first satisfy the court that he is
poor and unable to defray the expense of procuring their attendance.
CHAPTER CCXLIV.
JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.
Section
1. Insanity certified by grand Jury.
2. Admitted or found by verdict.
3. Court may commit in case of.
4. Insane may be discharged by governor and
council, etc.
5. Murder of first degree, how punished.
6. Death, how inflicted.
7. Effect of sentence of death or imprison
ment for life.
8. Sentence where imprisonment is over a
year.
Section
9. Sentence for police offences.
10. Whore imprisonment is under a year.
11. Solitary imprisonment, when suffered.
12. Fine and imprisonment where no other
punishment is prescribed.
13. Neglect of duty by public officer — penalty.
14. Conditional sentence, when.
15. Term of imprisonment, how limited.
16. Person so sentenced to be committed.
17. Corporation not appearing, Judgment.
18. Execution for fine.
Section 1. Whenever the grand jury shall omit to find an indict
ment against any person, for the reason of insanity or mental de
rangement, or any person prosecuted for any offence shall be acquit
ted by the petit jury for the same reason, such jury shall certify the
same to the court.
Sec. 2. Any person prosecuted for any offence may plead that he
is not guilty by reason of insanity or mental derangement, and such
plea may be accepted by the state's counsel, or may be found true
by the verdict of the jury.
Sec. 3. In either of the cases aforesaid, the court, if they are of
opinion that it will be dangerous to the people that such person
should go at large, may commit him to the prison or to the asylum for
the insane, there to remain until he is discharged by due course of law.
Sec. 4. The governor and council or the supreme court may dis
charge any such person from prison, or transfer any prisoner to the
asylum for the insane, whenever they are satisfied that such dis
charge or transfer will be conducive to the health and comfort of
such person and the welfare of the public.
Sec. 5. The sentence upon any person convicted of murder in the
first degree shall be, that he be imprisoned in the state-prison at Con
cord until the day appointed for his execution, which shall not be
within one year from the day sentence is passed, and that he be then
hanged by the neck until he is dead.
Sec. 6. The punishment of death shall be inflicted within the walls
or yard of the state-prison. The sheriff of the county in which he
was convicted shall be present, unless prevented by unavoidable cas
ualty, and two of his deputies. He shall request the presence of the
attorney-general or solicitor, clerk of the courts, and a surgeon, and
may admit these and other reputable citizens not exceeding twelve,
the relations of the convict, his counsel, and such priest or clergy
man as he may desire, and no others.
Sec. 7. If any person is convicted of any offence punishable by
death, and sentenced accordingly, such conviction shall be deemed
civil death ; and thereupon the bonds of matrimony shall be dissolved,
his property shall descend, administration on his estate shall
be granted, and all contracts to which he was a party, and all his
rights, powers, and liabilities of every kind, shall be affected in the
same manner as by his natural death.
Sec. 8. Where any offence is punished by imprisonment for more
than one year, the sentence shall be, that he be imprisoned in the
state-prison for the term ordered by the court ; of which such time
as the court may direct, not exceeding thirty days for each year's
imprisonment, nor three years in the whole for any offence, may be
in solitary confinement, and the residue at hard labor.
Sec. 9. Where any offence described in the chapter of offences
against the police of towns is punished by imprisonment, the sen-
tence shall be that the offender be confined to hard labor in the house
of correction of the town, if any suitable, otherwise in the house of
correction of the county, otherwise in the county jail, for the term
imposed by the court.
Sec. 10. When the punishment prescribed for any other offence
is imprisonment for one year or less, the sentence shall be, that the
offender be confined to hard labor, for the term ordered by the court,
in the county house of correction, if any, otherwise in the county
jail, except where otherwise expressly provided.
Sec. 11. Every convict sentenced to solitary imprisonment shall
suffer the whole thereof immediately after his commitment to the
state-prison, unless the directors shall think such imprisonment may
endanger his health, in which case it shall be inflicted at such in
tervals as they may order.
Sec. 12. Any person convicted of an offence at common law for
which no punishment is prescribed by any statute, shall be punished
therefor by fine or imprisonment, or both, according to the aggrava
tion of the offence.
Sec. 13. If any public officer wilfully neglects any duty of his
office, and no penalty is prescribed by statute for such neglect, he
shall forfeit a sum not exceeding thirty dollars.
Sec. 14. When a person is convicted of an offence punishable by
n ■ ■ . . . , . j . ,
fine or imprisonment, or both, the court or justice may award against
such offender a conditional sentence that he pay a fine, with or1
without costs of prosecution, within a limited time expressed in the
sentence, and in default thereof be imprisoned as prescribed by law.
Sec. 15. When any person is so conditionally sentenced, the term
of imprisonment shall not be less than one day for each dollar and
the fraction of a dollar of the fine and cost.
Sec. 16. The person against whom such conditional sentence is
awarded shall be forthwith committed to the custody of an officer
in court, or to prison, to be detained until the sentence is complied
with ; and if he does not pay the fine and costs within the time lim
ited, the officer shall cause the other part of the sentence to be exe
cuted forthwith.
^EC' ^ '1CU any corporation indicted vuider any statute fails
to'appear, after being duly served with process or an order of notice,
its default shall be recorded, the charges in the indictment taken to
be true, and judgment shall be rendered accordingly.
Sec. 18. "When judgment is rendered upon such indictment
against a corporation, the court may issue a writ of execution to
compel the payment of the penalty prescribed by law, together with
costs and interest. •
CHAPTER CCXLV.
REWARDS AND COMPENSATION'S TO PROSECUTORS.
Section
1. Selectmen may offer rewards.
2. Services to be compensated, when.
Section"
3. Recognizance forfeited — complainant c
pensated.
Section 1. The mayor and city councils of any city and the se
lectmen of any town are authorized, whenever in their opinion the
public good requires it, to offer and pay from the treasury of such
city or town a suitable reward, not exceeding three hundred dollars
in any one case, to any person who shall, in consequence of such of
fer, apprehend and secure any person or persons charged with having
committed any capital or other high crime.
Sec. 2. If any service is performed by any person, by direction
of any court or justice, or of the attorney-general, or solicitor of the
county, in bringing to justice any offender charged with a crime or
high-handed misdemeanor, the supreme court shall allow a reason
able sum therefor, to be paid from the county treasury.
Sec. 3. If any recognizance is forfeited and paid, in any case in
which, if such recognizor had been convicted, any sum might have
been due and payable to the complainant or any other person, the
supreme court, on notice to the county commissioners, may ascer
tain the amount so due, and order the same to be paid from the
county treasury.
Section 1. When any person in this state is charged with an offence
committed in another state, and is liable by the laws of the
United States to be delivered over upon demand of the executive of
such state, any court or justice may, upon complaint on oath setting
forth the offence and other matters necessary to bring the case
within the law, issue a warrant to bring the person so charged be
fore him or some other justice, to answer to such complaint.
Sec. 2. If upon examination there is reasonable cause to believe
that the complaint is true, and that such person may be lawfully de-
manded of the executive of this state, he shall, if charged with a
capital offence, be committed to jail, there to be detained until a day
so appointed as to allow a reasonable time to obtain the warrant of
6uch executive.
Sec. 3. If such person is charged with an offence not capital, the
court or magistrate may order him to recognize, with sufficient sure-
ties, to appear at a day so appointed, and, if he fails to recognize,
may commit him to jail, there to be detained not exceeding thirty
days, unless sooner discharged by due course of law.
Sec. 4. If the person so recognized or committed appears before
the court or magistrate upon the day ordered, he shall be discharged,
unless he is demanded by some person authorized by the warrant of
the executive to receive him.
Sec. 5. Any person authorized by warrant of the executive may
take such offender into custody at any time, whether recognized,
committed, or discharged, and such taking shall be a discharge of
the recognizance, if any, and shall not be deemed an escape.
Sec. 6. The complainant in every such case shall pay all the actual
costs and charges, and for the support in jail of any person com-
mitted as aforesaid at the rate of two dollars and fifty cents per
week, and shall advance the money therefor from time to time, or
give to the jailer satisfactory security therefor. If the complainant
neglects for twenty-four hours after he is required by the jailer to
give such security or advance such money, the jailer may discharge
him.
Sec. 7. When a demand is made upon the governor, by the executive
of any other state, for the delivery over of any person charged
in such state with any crime, the attorney-general or any other
prosecuting officer, when required by the governor, shall ascertain
and report to the governor all material facts known relating to the
case, and especially whether he is held in custody or is under re
cognizance to answer for any offence against the laws of the United
States or of this state, or by force of any civil process, and also
whether such demand is made conformably to law, so that such per
son ought to be delivered up.
Sec. 8. If the governor is satisfied that the demand is conformable
to law and ought to be complied with, he shall issue his warrant,
under the seal of the state, authorizing the agent who shall make
such demand, either forthwith or at such time as shall be designated
in the warrant, to take and transport such person to the line of the
state, at the expense of such agent, and shall also, by such warrant,
require the civil officers within this state to afford all needful assist
ance in the execution thereof.
Sec. 9. When any offender is apprehended in any neighboring
state, and it may be necessary to carry him through this state to the
place where the offence was committed, any justice, upon application
an(j proof that lawful process has issued against such offender, shall
issue a warrant under his hand and seal, directed to any sheriff or
his deputy, or to any person by name who shall be sworn to the
faithful performance of his duty, authorizing such conveyance.
^EC- Such person or officer shall cause such offender to be
conveyed to the line of this state next to the state where the offence
was committed, there to be delivered to some proper officer ready to
receive him ; and all persons to whom such warrant may be directed
are required to obey such order, upon payment or tender of the law
ful fees therefor.
Sec. 11. Any sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, or other officer of
justice, of any neighboring state, with his assistants, in the execu-
tion of any lawful process issuing from and returnable to any court
in such state, may pass himself, and convey such persons or things
as he may have in his custody by virtue of such lawful process,
through this state, in as full and ample a manner as any officer of
this state might do.
^EC- ^* person shall assault or obstruct any such officer
or his assistant, passing through this state in the execution of any
such process, he shall be liable to the same punishment as if such
person were an officer of this state.
Section 1. The coroner shall take an inquest upon the view of
the dead body of any person whose death is supposed to have been
occasioned by violence or casualty, within the county for which he is
commissioned, whenever the majority of the selectmen of the town
in which such dead body is found shall, in writing signed by them,
authorize the same.
Sec. 2. Any justice of the peace and quorum shall have and exer,,
* " j-
cise the same powers and be entitled to the same compensation as
a coroner, under this chapter.
Sec. 3. In every such case, the coroner shall issue a summons,
directed to three reputable persons, one of whom shall be a justice
of the peace, requiring them to appear before him at a time and
place therein specified, as jurors, which shall be in substance as
follows : —
THE STATE OP NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
58. To
[l. s.] In the name of the State of New-Hampshire, you are
hereby required to appear before me, , one of the coroners of
the county of , at the dwelling-house of [or, at
the place called ] , in the town of , on the
day of , at o'clock in the noon, then and
there to inquire, upon a view of the body of [or, a person
unknown] , there lying dead, how, and in what manner he came to
his death. Fail not of appearance, at your peril.
Given under my hand and seal, at , in said county, the
day of ,
Coroner.
Sec. 4. Service of such summons may be made upon each juror>
by any officer authorized to serve process, by reading the same to
him, or by giving him a true and attested copy thereof ; and he shall
make return thereof to the coroner, at the time and place of the
inquest.
Sec. 5. If any person summoned as a juror as aforesaid, without
reasonable excuse, fails of appearance, or if any officer without sufficient
cause fails to make due service or return of any such sum-
mons, he shall forfeit ten dollars.
Sec. 6. If any. person named in such summons fails to attend at
the time and place of taking such inquest, the coroner may cause
another person to be summoned in his stead.
Sec. 7. The coroner shall administer to the jurors the following
oath : —
"You solemnly swear that you will diligently inquire, and true
presentment make, in behalf of this state, how and in what manner
, who here lies dead, came to his [or her] death ; and
that you will deliver to me, , one of the coroners of this
county, a true inquest thereof, according to such evidence as shall
be laid before vou, and according to your knowledge. So help you
God."
Sec. 8. The coroner may issue a subpoena for any witness, or com,
.„ ' . „ 1 J . .. 1 . , .
pulsory process, it necessary, in the same manner as a justice might
Up0n a complaint, and the powers, duties, and liabilities of the coro
ner, officer, or witness shall be the same as in such case,
^EC' ®' ^e Jurors having been sworn, the coroner shall give them
a charge, upon their oaths, to declare of the death of the person,
whether he died of felony, mischance, or accident ; and if of felony,
whether he died of his own, or of another ; if of the felony of another,
who were the principals, and who accessories, with what instrument
he was struck or wounded, and all important circumstances ; if he
died of his own felony, the manner, means, and instrument thereof,
and all circumstances attending it ; if by mischance or accident, how,
and in what manner ; and hi all cases to inquire whether he was
killed in the place where found or elsewhere, and if elsewhere, how
and by whom he came to such place ; and every fact relating to the
cause of death which the finder of the body or any other person
may know.
Sec. 10. The jurors, being charged, shall stand together, and the
coroner shall cause proclamation to be made for all persons who can
give evidence how and in what manner the person then and there
lying dead came to his death to draw near and be sworn,
Sec. 11. The coroner shall administer to every witness the follow.
'
ing oath : —
u you solemnly swear that the testimony which you shall give to
this inquest concerning the death of , here lying dead,
shall be the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. So help you
God."
^EC- ^ne testimony of every witness shall be drawn up in
writing and subscribed by him ; and if his testimony charge any per-
son with killing or being in any way instrumental in the death of
the person so found dead, the coroner shall bind such witness, by
recognizance, in a reasonable sum, for his personal appearance at
the next trial term of the supreme court for the same county, there
to give evidence accordingly. If such witness refuses to recognize
as aforesaid, the coroner shall commit him to the common jail.
^EC" ^ne jury> navnig viewed the body, heard the evidence,
and made all the inquirv in their power, shall draw up and deliver
to the coroner their verdict upon such death, in writing under their
hands, and the coroner shall set his hand and seal thereto, and shall
return the same, with all recognizances, if any by him taken, to the
Dext *erm °^ *ne suPreme COUrt.
Sec. 14. The form of the inquisition shall be in substance as
« n n
IOllOWS :
THE STATE OF NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
SS.
An inquisition taken at , in said county, the
day of , in the year , before , one of
the coroners of said county, upon the view of the body of ,
there lying dead, by the oaths of , a justice of the peace
for said county, and of and , all reputable per
sons, who, being sworn, and charged to inquire for the state when,
how, and by what means the said came to his death,
upon their oaths do say [here insert how, where, when, by what
means, and with what instrument the death occurred] . So the ju
rors aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid, do say [here insert the
following, in case of murder] that the said [or some
person to the jurors unknown], in manner and form aforesaid, the
aforesaid , then and there, of his malice aforethought
did kill and murder, against the peace and dignity of the state ; [in
case of self-murder, insert instead] that the said , in man
ner and form aforesaid, then and there voluntarily and feloniously,
as a felon of himself, did kill and murder himself, against the peace
and dignity of the state ; [or, in case of death by misfortune, insert
instead] that the said , in manner aforesaid, came to
his death by misfortune ; [or in case of death happening innocently
by the hands of another person, insert instead] that the aforesaid
, the aforesaid [deceased] by misfortune, and
contrary to the will of the said , in manner and form
aforesaid, did kill and slay.
In witness whereof the said jurors have hereunto set their hands,
the day and year first above written.
In witness of all above written, the said coroner hath hereto set
his hand and seal, the same day and year.
. [L. S.]
Sec. 15. If any person charged by the inquest with having caused
the death of the person whose body lies dead before them is not then
in custody, the coroner shall forthwith notify some justice, that such
person may be apprehended, examined, and secured for trial.
Sec. 10. Every coroner, after taking an inquest of the violent or
casual death of any stranger, shall bury the dead body in a decent
manner, and the expenses of such inquest and burial shall be paid
to said coroner out of the treasury of the county, upon his certifying
that the deceased was a stranger, and his account being examined
and allowed by the county commissioners.
, > Jurors,
i )
Section 1. All penalties and forfeitures of money may be recov
ered by action of debt, before a justice, if sucb penalty or forfeiture
does not exceed thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents, otherwise
before the supreme court, by any person who will sue for the same,
unless otherwise provided.
Sec. 2. Every such penalty and forfeiture shall be one half for the
use of the prosecutor, and the other half for the use of the county
in which the offence is committed, unless otherwise limited.
Sec. 3. When judgment is rendered for any such penalty or for
feiture, a writ of execution may issue in favor of the prosecutor for
one half such penalty or forfeiture and costs, and a like execution,
on motion of the county commissioners, in favor of the county, for
the other half, who shall have the exclusive control thereof.
Sec. 4. Bail in such action and all property attached shall be
holden on each of such executions, in the same manner and to
the same extent as they would be in ordinary cases on a single
execution.
Sec. 5. No nonsuit shall be entered nor compromise made, in any
such case, unless by leave of the court, after notice thereof to the
county commissioners ; and if any such prosecutor shall decline to
proceed further in the action, the county commissioners may assume
and carry on the same for the exclusive benefit of the county.
Sec. 6. If part of any penalty or forfeiture is payable to any
town, corporation, or board of public officers, they shall have the
same rights in relation to such action and penalty as the county has
in the cases aforesaid. .
Sec. 7. When any fine or penalty is imposed for neglect for any
period of time, such neglect may be alleged to have commenced at
any specified period, and shall be reckoned from the time so alleged ;
but no suit or prosecution in such case shall be commenced against
any town or town officers until twenty days after notice given in
writing of the intention to commence the same, nor then if within
that time the duty is performed.
Sec. 8. In actions for the recovery of any penalty before a justice,
it shall be no cause of exception that such justice resides or has
property within the town in which the offence was committed, nor
that the penalty or any part thereof may belong to such town.
Sec. 9. In any such action, the defendant may plead the general
issue, and under it give any special matter in evidence.
Sec. 10. All suits or prosecutions founded upon any penal statute,
which are wholly or in part for the use of the prosecutor, shall be
brought within one year; and all other suits and prosecutions
thereon within two years after the commission of the offence, unless
otherwise specially provided.
Sec. 11. If a fine or forfeiture or any part thereof is given by
, in ,1 i*
statute to any prosecutor, and no person shall prosecute thereior
within the time limited by such statute, an information may be filed
or an indictment found within one year after such limitation shall
expire, and the fine or penalty shall accrue to the use of the county.
Sec. 12. When any penalty or forfeiture or any part thereof is
given to any town, the selectmen may sue therefor in the name of
the town, and shall defray the expenses of the prosecution, and the
selectmen may remit such penalty or forfeiture.
CHAPTER CCXLIX.
FORFEITURES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
Sectios
1. Seizure of property forfeited, how.
2. Libel to be filed, when and where.
3. Warrant thereon, how issued.
4. Notice of libel to be given.
5. Property may bo sold, how.
SECTION'
6. Property appraised and restored, when.
7. 51 ode of trial and decree.
8. Costs on trial, how allowed.
9. Appeal and proceedings thereon.
Section 1. Where any personal property is forfeited, for any violation
of law, any officer or person by law authorized to seize the
same may take and retain such property until he shall deliver it to
a proper officer having a warrant to detain the same.
•Sec. 2. The person making or directing such seizure shall, without
unnecessary delay, file a libel before a justice, if the property
does not exceed in value thirteen dollars and thirty-three cents,
otherwise in the office of the clerk of the supreme court, stating the
cause, and praying for a decree of forfeiture.
Sec. 3. Upon the filing, before or after seizure, of any libel for a
forfeiture, a warrant shall be issued to the proper officer, requiring
him to take such property into his custody, and detain the same
until legally disposed of.
Sec. 4. Notice of such libel shall be given to the owner, if known,
otherwise a notice shall be published to all persons interested, to appear
at the time and place appointed for trial, and show cause why
a decree of forfeiture should not be passed.
Sec. 5. If any person interested shall appear and claim such
property, the same may be sold by consent of parties, or it may
in any case be sold upon examination and a certificate of its perish-
able or expensive character, in the same manner as property at
tached may be examined and sold.
Sec. 6. If such claimant requests it, such property shall be appraised
in the same manner as property attached, and it shall be de-
livered to such claimant, upon his giving bond to pay to the persons
entitled thereto the appraised value thereof, and costs, in case a de
cree of forfeiture is made.
Sec. 7. The case may be tried by a jury, if in the supreme court,
upon the request of either party, otherwise by the court ; and the
cause of forfeiture alleged being proved, the court or justice shall
make a decree for the forfeiture and disposition of such property ac
cording to law.
Sec. 8. Costs may be awarded to the libellant, if a reasonable cause
of seizure appear, in which shall be included the necessary expenses
of the seizure and detention of the property ; otherwise reasonable
costs and damages shall be awarded to the claimant.
Sec. 9. An appeal may be claimed by either party from any de
cree made by a justice of the peace, in the same manner as in civil
actions ; and like proceedings may be had therein as in case of libels
originally filed in the supreme court.
CHAPTER CCL
FINES, COSTS, AND DISCHARGES.
Section
1. Fines imposed ou indictment or informa
tion.
2. Costa, how taxed in criminal cases.
3. Forms of sentence.
4. Commitment to jail or house of correction.
5. Execution for fines and costs.
G. Prisoner, when discharged.
7. Fines, for whose use.
Section
8. Fines paid to county treasury repaid.
9. Prisoners, how discharged.
10. Notico required.
11. Selectmen may discharge, when.
12. Such discharge no release of fine or costs.
13. Costa of arrest, etc., unless directed by state's
counsel, to bo paid by complainant.
Section 1. Fines are imposed by the sentence of a court of crimi
nal jurisdiction, in a prosecution commenced by indictment or in
formation, or upon complaint before a justice.
Sec. 2. Upon conviction and sentence, in any prosecution for a
crime or offence, costs shall be taxed as in civil cases ; but where
extraordinary expenses are incurred in the course of any trial, such part thereof shall be allowed in the bill of costs as the court may
deem reasonable.
Sec. 3. In any such case, the sentence may be, that the party sen
tenced shall stand committed until the sentence is performed, or it
may be that execution issue for such costs, and the party stand com
mitted until the residue of the sentence is performed.
Sec. 4. Any person sentenced for any offence to pay a fine and
costs, or either, shall be ordered to be imprisoned, till sentence is per
formed or he is otherwise legally discharged, in the house of cor
rection of the town or county, or in the county jail.
Sec. 5. A writ of execution may be issued for any fine and costs,
or for costs only, in any criminal case, notwithstanding the respon
dent may be committed or detained in jail for non-payment thereof;
and if such fine and costs or costs alone shall be collected upon
such execution, such convict shall not be further detained on account
of the same.
Sec. 6. Any person sentenced conditionally to pay a fine or be
imprisoned for a term shall be discharged at the expiration of such
term, and may be discharged at any time, on payment of the balance
of the fine and costs, after deducting one dollar for each day such
party has been imprisoned under such sentence.
Sec. 7. All fines imposed by any court for any offence, except for
offences against the police of towns, or for violation of the by-laws
of towns, or where other provision is specially made, shall be for
the use of the county, and shall be paid only to officers authorized
to receive the same, for the use of the county.
Sec. 8. If any fine appropriated to the use of any town or person,
or for any particular use, is paid, as it may rightfully be, into the
county treasury, the county commissioners, upon application, shall
draw their order upon the county treasurer for the same, in favor of
the party so entitled.
Sec. 9. Whenever any prisoner, under conviction for any criminal
offence and confined in jail, is unable to pay any fine or costs, the su-
preme court, or any justice thereof in vacation, upon petition and
satisfactory proof of such inability, may order such prisoner to be
discharged, upon such terms as they may think proper and expedient.
Sec. 10. No such discharge shall be granted unless a copy of such
petition, with a written notice of the time and place where the same
will be presented to such court or justice for consideration, is given
to the solicitor and one of the county commissioners, at least seven
days before the time of hearing ; and said petition and evidence of
notice and of inability to pay, with a note of the decision and order
of discharge, shall be filed in the office of the clerk of said court.
Sec. 11. Any person convicted of any offence against the police
of towns, or against any by-law of a town, may, upon petition and
proof of inability to pay any fine or costs, be discharged by the selectmen,
and the town shall be liable for prison charges in case of
the prisoner's inability.
Sec. 12. In neither of the cases aforesaid shall such fine or costs
be released by the discharge of such prisoner, but a writ of execution
therefor, against the goods or estate of such prisoner, may be
at any time issued, upon request of the county commissioners or se
lectmen, without a writ of scire facias.
Sec. 13. All legal costs attending the arrest, examination, or conveyance
of any offender, except when the same is directed by the
counsel of the state, shall be paid by the complainant, and may be
allowed him, in proper cases, by the county commissioners.
