REVISED STATUTES 
ST.A.TE OF NEW•YORK. 
. AN ACT 
Concerning courts and ministers of justice, and
proceedings in civil cases. 
WBDJU.a it is expedient that the several statutes of this state, re­
lating to courts and ministers of justice, and to proceedings in civil 
caaea, should be consolidated and arranged in appropriate chapters, 
titles and articles ; that the language thereof should be simplified ;
and that omi~ions and other defects should be supplied : Therefore, 
The People of the State of New-York, represented in Senate and
Allembly, do declare and enact as follows :- 
OHAPTERI. 
Of the Courts of General or Limited Jurisdiction. 
Tina 1.-0f the court for the trial of impeachment.I and the correction
of erron. 
TITLE 2.-0f the court of chancery. 
TITu: 3.-0f the supreme court. 
PA.RT m . 
T1Tu: 4.-0f the circuit courts, 1ittings, and courts of oyer and terminer. 
Tm& 5.-0f the courts of common pleas and general 1euion1 of the
peace, in the 1everal countiee of this 1tate. 
TITU &.-Of mayon' courts in cities. 
01' TBII 
!!!!!!! 
TITLE I. 
or THE COURT roR THE TRIAL OF IMPEACHMENTS AND THE COR-
RECTION OF ERRORS. 
AaT. l .-Of tbo constitution of the court, ud ill o8icen • 
SEC. 1. 
..U.T. 3.-0Cita powen u a court for tbo conection ohrron. 
Sac. I. Memben oCthe COllrt. 
I. Quonun; IDelDben neceuary to a deci1ion.
8. Dutyud power of chancellor, on appeal, from chancery .
.C. Duty ol jutice. of 1apreme court, on writ. of error.
6. Reuonl of cbueellor and jadga, bow ud ,rhea to be Nbmitted. 
6. ChancellOI' and jlldgm may Yote in certain cu•. •
T. 8euiou ol tu oowt, when and where held, 
8. Seal ol tbe coart. 
9. Proce11, how to be liped and tuted.
SEC. 0. Coart may appoint 1Ubordinate ofticen.
II. Compensatiou to clerk and oticen, for lttencluce. 
SEC. 1. The court for the trial of impeachments and the cor- 
reetion of errors, consists of the president of the senate, the senators,
the chancellor, and the justices of the supreme court. 
1 
SEC. 2. The major part of the members then in office, and constitution­ 
ally competent to vote on the· question pending, shall be a sufficient 
number to constitute the court; but no decision can be made without
the concurrence of at least ten members legally competent to vote on 
the question pending. 
§ S. When an appeal fro~ a decree in chancery shall be heard,
the chancellor shall inform the court of the reasons for his decree, but 
shall have no voice in the final sentence.' 
SEC. 4. When a writ of error shall be brought on a juCgment of the
supreme court, the justices of that court shall assign the reasons for
their judgment; but shall have no voice in its affirmance or reversal.1 
SEC. 5. The reasons so to be assigned by the chancellor or justices of
the supreme court, shall be submitted in writing. They shall be as· 
signed before the argument of the appeal or writ of error, as the ~ 
may be. 
ARTICLE FIRS~. 
OJ tlae Con,titution of the Court and U. 0.fficera. 
§ 6 •. When any interlocutory or other question shall arise on an ap­ 
pea), not affecting the merits of the cause, or any point decided in the
court of chancery, the chancellor may vote thereon, as other members 
of the court; and when any such question shall arise on a writ of er­
ror, not affecting the merits of the cause or any matter decided in the
supreme court, the justices of that court may vote thereon as other
members. 
SEC. 7. Sessions of the court may be held at the Capitol, in the city'
of Albany, at such times as the court shall from time to time direct; 
but not more than two such sessions shall be held during the recess of
the legislature, in any one year; and when so held during the recess 
of the legislature, the president of the senate and the senators, sball
receive the same compensation, for travelling and attendance, as for
attending a meeting of the senate. 
SEC. 8. The seal of the court shall continue to be that, of which a de-
ICription is now deposited and recorded in the office of the secretary of~ 
thia state ; which description shall there remain as a public record. 
SEC. 9. The writs and process of the court shall be signed by the clerk,
and tested in the name of the· president of the senate. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
0/ lmpMchments, and the Mode of conducting them. 
SEC. 2. Proeudiap to llllllDlOD comt to try impeachment.. 
la. Party impeached, how proceeded agai.n,t; hi1 right. on appearance. 
SEC. 4. &.titled to C011DHL 
SEC. 5. Time and place for trial to be appointed.
SEC. 8. Oatla to be takea lty president and memben. 
SEC. 7. Cout to try im.peacbmeat; may adjOUl'D. 
SEC. 8. Two-thirds aece11ary to conrictioo.
II. Party to be aequitted, if two-thirds do not eeneur. 
• .JIMlgmerat apon ClOllYictioo.
SEC. 1. 05cen impeached, 1111peaded until acquittal. 
SEC. 1. Proceeclinp if preaident o( Nnate be impeached. 
II. Coarictic,n not to Im indietment, &c. 
SEC. 2. All impeachments shall be delivered by the assembly to the 
P'fllident of the senate, who shall thereupon cause the court for the 
trial of impeachments to be summoned. 
6 
. ~ IS. The court, when summoned, shall forthwith cause the person 
UDpeacbed, to appear and to answer the charge exhibited against him
aid upon his appearance, he shall be entitled to a copy of the impeach-
lbent, and a reasonable time to answer the same. 
1 
SEC. 4. The person accused, is entitled, on the trial of the impeach- 
ment, to be allowed counsel, as in civil actions. e 
8 
SEC. 0. In addition to the officers of the court, named in the fifth 
Chapter of the First Part of the Revised Statutes, the court shall have 
power, from time to time, to appoint such subordinate officers as may
be necessary for the convenient transaction of business. 
SEC. 1. The clerk of the court shall receive the same daily compen-
sation, for his attendance at any term of the court held during the re- 
cm of the legislature, as is allowed to the members of the senate
and the other officers of the court shall receive the same compensation, 
'1r their attendance at any such term, as is or shall be allowed them
• their attendance on tho senate, to be certified and paid in like man- 
Dfl •. But no such daily compensation shall be made to any of the
aid officers, for their attendance on the court during the meeting of 
the legialature.' 
SEC. 5. When issue shall be joined in an impeachment, the court 
aball appoint a time and place for the trial thereof. a
SEC. 6. At the time and place so appointed, and before the commence- 
llleD;l of the trial, the clerk shall administer to the president of the se- 
t t 
8 
nate, and the president to each of the members of the court then pre-
sent, an oath or affirmation, truly and impartially to try and determine 
the charge in question, according to evidence. No member of the
court shall sit or give his vote upon such trial, until he shall have ta­
ken such oath or affirmation," 
SEC. 7. Such oath or affirmation being administered, the court shall
then proceed to hear, try, and determine the impeachment ; and may 
from time to time, if necessary, adjourn the trial to any other time or
place." 
SEC. 8. No person can be convicted on an impeachment, without the
concurrence of two-thirds of the members of the court then present. 
SEC. 9. If two-thirds of the members present shall not asseet to a con­ 
viction, the person impeached shall be declared acquitted. 
SEC. 0. Upon a conviction ·of the person impeached, judgment may 
be given that he be removed from office ; or that he be disqualified to
hold any office of honor, trust or -profit, under this state; or botb; but
no other judgment can be pronounced. 
SEC. 4. To correct erron in chancery and 1upreme covt.
SEC. 5. Powen and duty in respect to erron in 1upnme court. 
SEC. 8. Proceedings OD remitting record to 1upreme court. 
SEC. 7. Daty and powen in re,pect to erron in clwacery.
SEC. 8. Proceeclinp on remitting decree, &c. to cbucery.
SEC. 9. Writs and appeals not to abate Cor want oC a quorum. 
SEC. 4. The court sh.all have full power to correct and redress all er·
rors, that may happen in the court of chancery, or in the supreme
court.11 
SEC. 5. The court shall examine all errors that shall be assigned, 
· 
8 
~ E · d th 
SEC. 1. very officer impeached, shall be suspcnde from e exer-
cise of his office, until his acquittal. 
9 
SEC. 2. If the president of the senate shall be impeached, notice there­
of shall be immediately given to the senate, by the assembly, that 
another president may be 'chosen. 
9 
~ 28·. Every person convicted on an impeachment, shall, neverthe-
less, be liable to indictment and punishment according to law. 
ARTICLE. THIRD. 
0) Ua Powers aa a Court for the CON'ection of En-or,. 
or found, in any record brought from the supreme court, or in any
process or proceeding touching the same; and shall have power tD 
reverse or affirm the judgment of the supreme court, or to give such
other judgment as the law may require.11 
SEC. 6. The transcript of such record, with the judgment of the court
for the correction of errors thereon shall be remitted to the supreme 
8 
10 
court; where such further proceedings shall be had, as may be neces-
rary to carry such judgment into effect. 
TITLE II. 
OF THE COURT OF CHANCERY. 
hr. 1.-0rthe constit1Jtion of the court, And of its officers and their duties.
UT. t.-of' tbe general powers, ,luties, and jarildktion of the court. 
u,. 3.-0f the term• of the court, and the mode of proceeding therein. 
An. 4.-0f proceedings against ablent, concealed, and non-resldent defenda11ts.
bt. 5.-()f the granting of injunctions to stay proceedings at law. 
Alt. 6.-0C the powers and proceedings of fhe court, upon billa for the foreclosure or 
•tiaf'aetioo of mortgages.
llT. 7.-0f proceedings in relation to the conveyance of lands by infants, alli die aale 
and disposition of their estates. 
A..llTICLE FIBST. 
Of fie CoutUutioA of the Court, and of its Officers and their 
' Duties. 
•e. L Po,ren o( coart Te.teci in the chucellor. 
I. Cireait jadgee to be 'rice-ebacellon in certain cue,. 
I. ~ oa po,ren of ~ellon . 
12 
SEC. 7. Upon any order or decree of the court of chancery being
th 
. th
brought by appeal to the court for e correction of errors, at court 
aball examine all errors that shall be assigned, or found, in such order
or decree, and shall hear and determine such appeal, and all matters 
aincerning the same; and shall have power to revene, affirm, or alter
such order or decree, and to make such other order or decree therein, 
u justice shall require.12 
SEC. 8. When an appeal shall have been so heard and determined,
all the proceedings, together with the judgment, decree or order of the 
mart '1r the correction of errors, therein, and all things concerning the 
same, shall be remitted to the court of chancery ; where such further 
proceedings shall be thereupon had, as may be necessary to carry such 
judgment, decree or order, into etfect.12 · 
. 
SEC. 9. If at the return of any writ of error, or at the time of enter- 
mg an appeal in the court for the correction of errors, or at any other 
time, to which the same or the proceedings thereon, shall be adjoum- 
eel or continued, a sufficient number of the members of the court shall 
not be present to constitute a court, the writ of error shall not be there-
by abated, nor the appeal, nor any of the proceedings discontinued;
but the same shall be adjourned or continued by the members then 
preBeDt, to some further day. 
12 
._ C.... to be beard by cbaDeellor; relereace to nce<hancellon.
I. POW"U t. tu eoet, TUted in 'riee-chaneellon ud certain muten. 
I. Odm powe19 el 'flee.eblneellon, UDder direotiou o( chaacellor. 
Ssc. 7, Powen, when chaneellor u puty to a nit. 
8. Clerlu and regi1ter, &c. to attend courta of vice-chancellon.
9. Bondi to be giien by regiater, u1iatant regiater, and clerk.I in chancery. 
SEC. 0. Boada to be ft.led with comptroller. 
SEC. 1. l'roceedinga OD forfeiture of bond; application of money reconred.
SEC. 2. llegiater and uamant to ban charge of boob, minute., &c. 
u. Clerk, or equity coaru to deliffl' boob, "°· to derb i'1 cbaDce,y. 
14, Bow 1uch delivery may be compelled,
SEC. 5. Pending cauaea in equity colll'ta, tran1ferrecl; further proceedings.
SEC. 8. Boob, &c. in chancery, when truwniUedfroaa one o8ice toaother.
SEC. 7. Money reeeired by regiater, &c. where depoaited.
SEC. 8. Money reeelred by clarb, where deposited. 
SEC. 9. Statements of money receiTed by clerb to be 1e11t to register. 
m. Certificate of cuhier to accompany statement. · 
SEC. 1. Money paid into court, how iDTeated; party paying not liable therefor. 
SEC. 2. Balee to be made by chancellor concerning money, &c.
SEC. 8. Money deposited to be paid out only OD order of court, &c.
SEC. 4. Stocki, &c. to be in name of register, &c.; accounts by them. 
SEC. 5. llegiater, &c. to euibit accounts to chancellor, each term.
SEC. 6. !tock, &c. to nit in 1uccea1or of regiater, clerk, &c. 
rt. Money in bank.I, depoaited by register, &c. to be credited to 1ucce11or. 
SEC. 8. Du.tie, of 1ergeants of courts of chancery.
29 & SO. Sherif& made officen of court; their duties.
SEC. 1. Sheri6t to attend terms of court in their countie1; their powen. 
SEC. 2. Second application, for injunctiou, &c. not to be made to muten. 
SEC. 8. Ord.en granted on 1uch application, void; how reYOked, 
st. Penou 10 applying, how puni1hed. ·
SEC. 5. Expenses of court, how paid ud accounted for. 
SEC. 1. The powers of the court of chancery are vested in the chan- 
cellor. 
SEC. 2. Every circuit judge, within the limits of his circuit, shall be 
a vice-chancellor, and shall, concurrently with the chancellor, and ex- 
clusively of any other circuit judge, have and exercise all the original
jurisdiction and powers which now are, or hereafter may be vested in 
the chancellor, ill all causes and matters in. equity, and in all matters 
of which the cognizance is or shall be vested in the chancellor, by
virtue of any statute, in the following cases : 
1. Where such causes and matters shall have arisen within the cir­
cuit of such judge : or, 
2. Where the subject matter in controversy shall be situated within
such circuit : or, 
a. Where the defendants, or persons proceeded against, or either
of them, reside within such limits : 
Subject to the appellate jurisdiction of the chancellor, as herein 
provided. 
~ S. The vice-chancellors shall not have power to discharge, re- 
. 
on1en,'korverse or alter any decree, order or act, made or done by the chancel-
Ior; nor shall they have jurisdiction of any appeal from, or of any 
proceeding in the nature of an appeal from, or review or rehearing of,
any order or decree of the vice-chancellor of any other circuit, or ~f 
any inferior court authorised by law to entertain any proce~ings in 
equity, or of any surrogate, except in those cases where an appeal to 
a circuit judge is expressly given by law ; and except where a cause 
or matterahall hue been expre11ly referred to-such vice-chancellor
iir his decilion thereon, by the order of the chancellor. 
SEC. 4. In all other cases than those in which the vice-chancellors are 
, , 
Tested with the powers of the chancellor, as herein before enumerat- 
ed, proceedings shall be had before the chancellor, as heretofore p~(}o 
tiaecJ. in the COUrt Of chancery j but the hearing and decision of '1ny 
motion, or of any cause set down for hearing before the chancellor' 
may be referred, by his order, to any vice-chancellor, subject to the 
appellate jurisdiction of the chancellor.
SEC. 5. The exclusive power of taxing costs in the court of chancery, 
shall be veited in the vice-chancellors, and in such masters of the 
rourt, as the chancellor shall from time to time, by an order of the
COIIJ't, designate and appoint. 
11 
SEC. 6. The vice-chancellors shall execute such other powers and du
' · } ' di • 'h f h h 
tJes, m re ation to any matter pen mg ID t e court o c ancery, as t 
chancellor shall from time to time direct, subject in all cases to his
appellate jurisdiction. 
SEC. 7. When the chancellor. shall be a party to a suit in chancery,
or interested in the event of such suit the bill shall be addressed to 
. , ~ 11 
and filed before some one of the vice-chancellors, who shall proceed 
thereon as a court of chancery, and shall possess all the powers of that 
court in relation to the subject matter of such bill ; and appeals from 
aoy order or decree of such vice-chancellor, shall be made imme­ 
cliately to the court ior the correction of errors, in the same manner
as if such order or decree had been made by the chancellor. 
SEC. 8. The register of the court of chancery shall attend every court 
beM by the vice-chancellor of the third circuit, and shall be the clerk 
thereof; and the assistant register shall attend CV'1°Y court held by 
die ,ice-chancellor in the first circuit, and shall be the clerk thereof. 
The clerks of the court of chancery residing in the second and fifth
cirtuita, shall attend every court held by the vice-chancellors of such 
circuits respectively. In each of the other circuits, a clerk of the 
h 11
h
· d h h JI . 1 
court-0f chancery s a e appointe , w o s a attenc every court 
held by the vice-chancellor of such circuit ; and shall keep an office
in such place as such vice-chancellor shall direct. 
J 9-. The register and assistant register of the court of chancery 
"--A-- • d bet'. . h d • f h , , 
&1:,~ appointe , rore entermg on t e uties o t err respective 
oices, shall each execute a bond to the people of this state, in the 
penalty of twenty thousand dollars, with two sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the chancellor, and conditioned for the faithful perform- 
aQCe of the duties of his office. A similar bond, in the penalty of ten
•I.--- . h . b db h . h 
WUWR1Dd dollars, wit sureties to e approve y t e vice-c ancellor 
of the circuit, shall be executed by the clerks of the court of chancery 
now in office, within sixty days after this Title shall ~mence ml 
take effect as a law, and by the clerb hereafter appointed, before
entering on the duties of their respective offices.1' 
SEC. 0. Such bonds shall be filed in the office of the comptroller of
this state.14 
SEC. 1. If any such bond shall become forfeited by a breach of its
condition, the chancellor shall direct it to be prosecuted ; and the~ 
nies recovered, shall be applied, under bis direction, for the indemni­
of the penons aggrieved by such breach, in proportion to the amount 
of their respective losses. 
1• 
SEC. 2. The register and assistant register, sllall severally have the
custody of all the minutes, books, records and papers now deposited, .
or that may hereafter be deposited in their respective offices; and it 
8'iall be their duty carefully to attend to the arrangement 'and preser·
vation thereof. u 
SEC. 8. Within ten days after this Title shall take effect as a law, the
several clerks of the equity courts in the di.trerent circuits, shall deli· 
ver all the boob and papers in their custody as such clerks, as fol·
lows : the clerk in the first circuit, to the assistant register of the court
of chancery ; the clerk of the equity court of the second circuit, to the
clerk io chancery rcsid.ing in that circuit ; the clerk in the third circuit, 
to the register of the court of chancery; the clerk in the fifth circuit, to
the clerk in chancery residing in that circuit ; and the clerks of the re­
maining equity circuits, to the clerks in chancery who shall be ap­
pointed in their respective circuits. 
SEC. 4. Such delivery may be compelled in the manner prescribed
in Article fifth of the sixth Title of the fifth Chapter of the First Part 
of tho Revised Statutes. 
SEC. 5. All causes and matters in equity which shall be pending in
any of the equity courts, at the time this Chapter shall commence 
and take effect as a law, shall be deemed to have been commenced
and to be pending in the court of chancery ; and all necessary further
proceedings shall be had therein before the vice-chancellor having ju­
risdiction, in the manner prescribed in this Title. 
SEC. 6. The register and 88Si.stant register may, under the direction
of the chancellor, convey any of the records, boob or papers, in their
respective offices, to the office of each other, or to any other place, as
the course of legal proceedings may require ; and any papers on file
in the office of any clerk of the court of chancery, shall be transmit­
ted to the register or auistant register, whenever directed by the chan­
cellor, either by special orders, or in the cases provided by the gene­ 
ral rules to be established by him. 
11 
SEC. 7. AU money brought into the ~urt o( chancery, for or by any
lllitor, and paid to the register or uaiatant regi.s~r thereof, aball be 
depoeited in such banki as the court lhall direct ; and accounts thereof 
all be kept with the said bank•, in such manner and form as the 
court ahall direct. 
SEC. 8. All monies brought into the said court, for or by any lllitor, 
and paid to any clerk thereof, shall be deposited in such bank as the
fic.e.cbancellor of the circuit shall by general order direct, and ac- 
a>unll thereof shall be ~e.pt with the said banks, in such manner and
bm u the vice-chancellor shall direct. ' 
SEC. 9. On the first Tuesday of January, and on the first Tuesday of 
July, in each year, the several clerks of the court of chancery shall 
tnoamit to and file with the register, a statement of all monies paid to 
aach clerk then remaining in court, which shall specify, 
~· The title of the cause in or on account of which such money
was paid: 
1. The party by whom paid, and generally for what purpoee :
a. The time of payment, and the amount paid:
,. The bank in which the same it dep<>lited. 
I !O. Such statement shall be accompanied by a c.ertincate o( the 
cuhier of the bank in which such deposit ia made, that the total 
amount stated to be deposited, is actually in the ~k, placed to the 
aedit of such clerk, as clerk of the court, and not mingled with llllJ 
other account. 
I !I. The chancellor may cause any of the rnonies so brought into 
court, punuant to any order made by him, to be invested in any pub- 
lie ltock, or to be placed at interest on approved landed security, and 
&om time to time to be transferred or disposed of, as he shall think 
proper. The same power may be exercised by a vice-chancellor, in
respect to monies paid into court, pursuant to any order of such vice- 
chancellor. The party bringing money into court, pursuant to any
order, shall in all cases be thereby discharged from all further Jiabil- 
ity, to the extent of the money so paid into court.11 
SEC. 2. The chancellor may also, from time to time, tnake such rule, 
and regulations concerning such monies, stocks and securities, and 
concerning the making of the deposits, and keeping of the accounts, 
and the drawing o( the monies, as he shall deem just and reuenable
but all such rules and regulations shall be entered in the minutes o( 
the court.11 
I IS. No monies brought or paid into the court of chancery, and 
deposited in any bank to the credit of any officer of the court, shall be 
paid out by such bank without the production of the order of the court 
forthat purpo8e, authenticated by the signature of the ehaneeUor or
vice-chancellor making such order. 
SEC. 4. All stocks and securities taken by order of the court, for the 
benefit of the suitors therein, shall, if appointed to be taken in the
f ffi f l b k • th r th • 
name o any o cer o t ie court, e ta en m e name o e register 
or assistant register, or of one of the clerks of the court; who shall 
severallykeep just and full accounts of all monies, stocks and securi­
ties; that shall come to their hands by virtue of their offices, and of
all payments and investments made by them, ~7 
SEC. 5. On the first day of every term, the register, or assistant re- 
gister, as the case may be, residing in the city in which the· term is
held, shall exhibit his bank account, and also the account kept by 
him, to the chancellor, for his examination.t?
SEC. 6. On the death, removal from office, or resignation, of the re­ 
gister or assistant register, or of any clerk of the court, all stock, mort­ 
gages, and other securities vested in him, at the time of such death,
removal or resignation, by virtue of any proceedings of the court, shall 
vest in his successor inoffice, in like manner as if such register, as­
sistant register or clerk, had been created a corporation sole, with 
right of succession. 
17 
SEC. 7. All money deposited in any bank, to the credit of such regis­
ter, assistant register or clerk, as such,' shall, upon his death, removal 
from office, or resignation, be carried to the account of his successor
in office ; and every such bank shall take notice thereof, and transfer 
such accounts accordingly. 
11 
SEC. 8. The sergeants of the court of chancery, shall attend the court, 
"- h h h h 
while sitting in the place ror w ich t ey s all ave been respectively
appointed, and shall perform such services in and about the court, as
the chancellor shall from time to time require.18 
SEC. 9. The sheriffs of the respective counties shall be officers of the 
f h fc h f • h f h 
court o c ancery, or t e purpose o executing t e process o t e
court.19 
~ SO. The sheriff to whom such process shall be directed, shall be 
amenable to the court in its execution ; and may be punished. for his 
disobedience or default therein in the manner prescribed by law .19 · 
SEC. 1. The sheriff of the county in which any stated term shall be
h b h h • • f 
eld y t e c ancellor, or by any vice-chancellor, shall, upon pam o
being fined in the discretion of the court, be bound to give his atten- 
dance during its sitting, in such manner as the court shall direct; and 
the sheriff so . attending, shall execute all the powers and duties of a
sergeant-at-arms, and may execute all the lawful orders and proces., 
of the court, in any county of this state.19 
'II, I( an A\'plication for an order that atl injunction 01' writ of 
It aeat iMue, be tnade to the chancellor, or any vice-chancellor, or 
, , 
any muter in chancery authorised to grant the same, and such order
&e remaed, in whole or in part. ·or be granted eonditlonally, or ol\ 
A.RTICLE SECOND. 
OJ tA, General Powers, Duties, and Jurisdidion of the Court. 
Sic. ll. Extent of powen and juriadic:tion of chancery.· 
Ir. Sait, for 8100 or le11, to be dismia.ed, with eosts.
SEC. 8. ~ of property, b, of a defendlnt, wm md how colDpelled ~ a jmg- 
mct creditor. · 
•· Payment of judgment out of property not liable to execution may be compelled.
SEC. 0. Set_. to be allowed in auita for reconry of money. 
SEC. 1. Billa to cli1COTer &aada in oonfeHi.ng judgmenta.
A Aanrer1 to auch bilb not to be evidence,. 
& Pvehuer al n.l abde how ehatgecl with notice of llllit • 
... Wbea oath to amwer, may be waned. 
, . 
trrms, no subeequent application for the same purpose, and in relation 
to~ ame matter; shall be made to any other master in chancery. 
i SS. If upon any such subsequent application, any order be made
by a master in chancery, it shall be absolutely void, and shall be re- 
roked by such master, or by the chancellor, or the vice-chancellor of
the circuit in which such master resides, upon due proof of the facta. 
SEC. 4. Every person making such subsequent application, contrary
to the foregoing provisions, shall be liable to be punished by tine and 
impri110nment, by the court in which the application shall' be made,
and shall be proceeded against as prescribed in the thirteenth Title of 
the eighth Chapter of this act. · 
SEC. 5. All proper expenses (or. the administration of the court of 
chancery, the safe keeping oC its records and papers, and other pur- 
poeea of the court, shall be paid out of the income of the general fund
of the court. The register, assistant register or clerk making any 
lllal expenditures, shall report to the comptroller, on or' behe the 
8nt day ef January in each year, the· amount and purposes of such ex­
penditure.20 
SEC. 1. hnea apon leplity of marriagea, to be tried by jurJ. 
SEC. 8. a. r dJcr to atabliah rale1 for practice, ~o. 
a. Pmutyforprolisity in pleading, to make COit.a, 
SEC. 6. The powers and jurisdiction of the court of chancery, are co- 
e1tensive with the powers and jurisdiction of the court of chancery in 
England, with the exceptions, additions, and limitations, created and 
UllpOeed by the constitution and laws of this state. 
SEC. 1. The court of chancery shall dismiss erery snit ceaceraimg 
property, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of coats, doea not
elC9ed the value of oae hundred dollars, with costs to the defendant. 
SEC. 8. Whenever an execution against the property of a defendant, 
shall have been issued on a judgment at law, and shall have been re- 
turned unatillfied, in whole or in put, the party ming .out such en­ 
cution, may 6le a bill in cbucery against such defendant, and .any 
otb,r pel'l«!o, to compel the diloovery of any property or thing in ac­ 
tion, belonging to the ddmdant, and of any property, money, or thing
in action, due to him, or held in triJat for him ; and to preve&t the 
tran.r of any such property, money or thing in action, or the pay· 
mentor delivery thereof, &o the defendant, except where auch truat 
hu been created by, or the fund ao held in trust has proceeded from, 
aome person other thaJl. the defendant himself. 
SEC. 9. The court aball have power ~ compel such discovery.,~ to 
prevent such ~r, payment or ~ebvery, and to decree satisfaction
of the aum rem~mg due on such Judgment, out of any personal pro-
perty, money or things in action belonging to the defendant, or held in
trust for him, with the exception above stated, which shall be disco­ 
vered by the proceedings in chancery, whether the same were origi­
nally liable to be taken in execution at law or not • 
SEC. 0. In suita for the payment or recovery of money, aet-otfs lhall
be allowed in tbeaame maDDel', and with the like effect, aa in actions 
at law. 
SEC. 1. A bill of discovery may be filed, and the defendant shall'be 
compelled to answer such bill, where the defendant is charged with
having given t.o another penon a warrant of attorney to enter up a 
judgment, or with having confelsed or swfered any judgment, purport· 
ing to be for a mm or debt due, when in fact nothing, or only a part of
the sum mentioned in such warrant of attorney or judgment, is due, 
with intent to defraud the just crediton of such defendant, or to place
the property of the defendant out of the reach of his creditors, or to 
bold the ame on aome eecnt trust or confidence, or for the benefit of
such defendant. 
11 
SEC. 1. No answer made to any bill, filed under the last section, shall
be read in evidence, against the defendant on the trial of any indict·
ment for the fraud charged in the bill. 
91
· 
SEC. 8. To render the filing of a bill in chancery constructive notice 
to a purchuer of any real-estate, it shall be the duty of the complain­
ant to file with the clerk of the county in which the lands to be affected 
by such conatructive notice are situated, a notice of the pendency of
such suit in chancery, setting forth the title o( the cause and the gen·
eral object thereo~ together with a description of the land to be affect·
eel thereby. Each county clerk sbaU place in an index to be kept in 
his office, such references to the said notices, as will enable all per· 
sona interested, to search his office for such notices, without iocon· 
venience.u 
I«. When a bill ehell be filed in the court of chancery, other
than Jar discovery only, the complainant may waive the necessity of~ 
the answer being made on the oath of the de.imdant; and in auch ca-
m, the answer may be made without oath, and shall have no ~er or 
greater force aa evidence, than the bill. 
SEC. 5. All issues upon the legality of a maniage, ( e:s:cept where a 
marriage is sought to be annulled on the ground of the physical inca-
pacity of one of the parties,) shall be tried by a jury of the country
and the chancellor shall award a feigned iaue for the trial thereof. 
SEC. 6. The chancellor sh~II have r>wer from time to time, by ge~e-
ral rules of court; to· estabhsh, modify, alter and amend the practice'!-'°',,.... 
of the court ~f chancery, in the caaes not provided for by any statute.
And the chancellor shall, within two yean after thia Chapter shall 
commence and ~ke eff'ect, and at the expiration of every a,even years 
thereafter, revise the rules of the aid court, with a view to the at- 
tainment, 10 far as may be practicable, of the following improvement, 
in tJ.e practice : 
1. The abbreviating of bills, answen ancl other proceeclinp: 
t. The expediting of the decision oC caW181: 
s. The diminishing of costs : and,
,. The remedying of such abllle8 and imperfec;tiOD', u may be 
found to exist in the practice, in any clua of suits cognizable in the
court of chancery. 
SEC. 7. Whenever any bill, anawer or other proceeding, filed in the~.!!. 
court of chanCflry, shall satitfactorily appear to the chancellor, to have 
been made unnecessarily prolix, for the purpose of increasing the.._ 
costs, it shall be the duty of the chancellor to order the solicitor or
counsel by whoQl such bill, anewer or other proceeding, aball have
been drawn, to pay the costs 'occasioned by such unnecessary prolix- 
ity, to the party injured thereby. 
A.llTICLB TBIBD. 
0/ tAe Terms of the Court, and the Mode of proceedi-s thlrma. 
lie. & Stated term• of the coart, w11en and wben to be beld. 
e. Ho,r mg to be held. 
IO.. ltat*1 and 1peoial tenm by ricHllu~.
IL May be laeld at .ame time with tenDI of .......... 
a PIOceeclhlp belonri~ • nMUiap, tebe,........ a.1......n. 
.. Wun tenna ol ric:M:laucellol' may be beW '1 .....,., ... 
I&. Bill to wbom to be adclre1Nd; etl'taal billl, Ac. to h,........ to,,....._...,_ 
Ion ; wltere lied.
SEC. 6. AD otller billa, Ac. to be 6led wltla ........ or...i.tu&.
ll 1tbu pleadings nlNeqaeat to WU., Ae. to h llecl. 
SEC. 7. Powerw or Tiee-chueellon in eue, tllM may be._. by tMm.
SEC. 8. Onlen ... deonel .... to .. .tided ........... 
M. Appeallwllea to be made flam dHrw, Ac. of............,. . 
.,_ Appeal bow made. 
ll. ~ o( decree, and proeeedinp OD appeal, to N preNnoed 1'J elillDOello,. 
8Z. P~en of cb8aeellar OD .bearing -,,-L 
91 
li•c. ~- Oauet Wore Yi~ •:, be ,et de,n {Gr h.-mg befen .... ,.,..... 
SEC. 4. Appea11 Crom vice-ehancellors not to be made to court of enon. 
SEC. 6. Fonua ofproce11 iuued o•t of chancery. 
SEC. 6. To be NUed ; whm to 1,a directed ~ lhnifti'Of eouitie,, 
67, Present seal, retained, wheredepo1ited,
SEC. 8. Four new 1eals to be made ; where to be deposlted, 
SEC. 9. Regiater, &c. to fmn..iah certain bJenk proceaa to aolicitctn.
70 & 71, Subpamu and1njunctioiu not to i11ue, until bill ia 61ed. 
SEC. 2. Copy, b. 'of bill need not be annexed to commi11ion1 to take annrer. 
13, ~ee to be~ of ddendallt rel\lsagto appear, A:c.
SEC. 4. Billa how to be taken "' eonfesaed and defaults how entered.
SEC. 7. Copiee ofpleadingil to be served by partitt on each other, or OD 10liciton. 
SEC. 8. Oomaiaiena to take teldlllo•:,, JUT be i1necl, 
i9, May be issued by register, clerks, &c. 
80 & SI. PNteeedings to obtain commi11ion.
SEC. 3. C~i....,_ an&horiaed to adaiaiater OlltM. 
SEC. 8. Wit.ne11es to be examined orally, in presence of parties.
8.&. V1Ce-1:hancellon may order witnesses to be examined before them. 
SEC. 6. &eh e.Dlllination inay be ordered. by ollNieeUor. 
SEC. 6. When 10 ordered, witDeu not to be eumined by euminer, &c. 
SEC. 7. Rules to be prescribed limiting time for examining witne11e•.
SEC. 8. Aba,·regu1ating enniirmtiona before oomminionera, k 
89, Tutimony, to be written, when to be sipad, where filed.
SEC. 0. Cawei bow brought te a hearing. ·
SEC. 1. When pleadings and decree to be attached, by whom to be aipd. 
n. Wbtre to be filed ; tiling deemed euolmeat. 
SEC. 3. Docket of certain decrees to be kept by register, clerks, &c.
SEC. 4. Contenta of docket; how entered.
SEC. 5. Tran1cripta of docketa to be sent to elerk1 qf 811preme court.
SEC. 6. Certain decrees to bind real estate, from time of docketing. 
SEC. 1. Cha~ to cease, in certain cue,, 6fter ten yean. 
SEC. 8. l>ec?eet bow di1ebuged on certwcate of p.uty.
SEC. 9. Court may order docket of decrees, to be discharged. 
100, Discharge, rennal, &c. of decree, to be certified to 111j,reme court clerk.a • 
SEC. 1. Coat& not to be allQwed for pralix or need.la• depotitiom, A:c.
SEC. 2. Minu.tes of court to be entered in books. 
103: Etfect of 11uch transcripts u endence. 
104, Ezecations agaiut penon uad property, .Uowed, on deenu.
SEC. 5. Penonal property purchased, not bound by aecution until leT)', 
SEC. 6. Notices in certain suit&, to crediton, A:c. generally, how publi1hed.
SEC. 7. Certain CftHlt 90t to abata by death al ,-ties, 
1~. Other cau1es to abate only u to party dying.
SEC. 9. Snits againat representatives, may be revived by order of conrt. 
110, Order to be ae"ed ; time for appearance, A:e. allowed.
SEC. 2. Proceedings upon default in appearing, &c.
SEC. 4. Proceedings whelr farther auw~r reqaired.
SEC. 6. Suit how rerind on. death of complainant; proceedings.
SEC. 9. Repre.eatatifttl of deeeued complainant,, how eonilpelled to pn>e:eed.
SEC. 1. Revinl by defeadant, agaiut repreaentativea of dece.ued co-defendant. 
SEC. 8. The stated terms of the court of chancery shall be appointed
by the chancellor, and me.y be.altered by him, from time to time, as 
the public convenience may require ; but two terms, at least, shall be
held i.u the city of.Albany, and two in the city of New-York in every 
year.24 
SEC. 9. Every stated term shall be held eight days, at least, and
longer, if necessary. :u • 
SEC. 0. The vice-chancellors· of the several circuits, shall hold four
stated terms in each year, at such times and in such counties in their 
circuits, as the1 shall respectively appoint, at the usual places of hold- 
ing courts therein ; and when so appointed, the said terms shall re- 
, , 
mam unaltered for two years. They may also hold so many special 
tenns, 8lld at such times and places, as they shall deem proper.
SEC. 1. A stated or special term may be held by a vice-chancellor, 
at the same time that any such term ahall be held by the chancellor. 
SEC. 2. The chancellor shall, by general rules of court, prescribe the
time and manner in which proceedings may be had, and causes be 
brought to a hearing, before the vice-chancellors, pursuant to the pro-
MQDS of this Title, and the cases in which a rehearing may be grant- 
al by them.
SEC. 8. Whenever a vice-chancellor shall be unable to hold any 
.,.._,_.J • hi • . sh 11 be • ed • th f
~ term m is circuit, or a interest m e event o any 
cause or matter to be heard at such term, or shall have been solicitor
or counsel in any such cause, any other vice-chancellor may hold the 
lallle, or may hear and decide any such cause or matter, in the same
manner and with the like effect, as if he was the vice-chancellor for 
such circuit: or such term may be held by the chancellor.
SEC. 4. All bills and petitions in the court of chancery, shall be ad- 
J __ .J b h JI h I . , 
~ to t e c ance or : sue as re ate to a cause or matter m equ1- 
ty, which, according to the provisions of this Title, may be heard by 
a vice-chancellor, shall be presented to such vice-chancellor, and shall 
be
filed
'th th 1 k f th idi . h · · 'f. 
w1 e c er o e court rest mg m sue circuit : or 1 pre-
aented to the vice-chancellor of the third circuit, shall be filed with 
the register; and if presented to the vice-chancellor of the first circuit,
shall be filed with the assistant register. 
SEC. 5. In all other cases than those provided for in the preceding
&ection, all bills and petitions shall be filed in the office of the regis- 
ter or assistant register of the court, who shall also respectively· per- 
'1nn all the 'duties heretofore attached to the office of clerk of the court
of chancery. 
SEC. 6. Answers, pleas, demurrers, replications, and all other plead- 
inga and proceedings in any cause, which, according to the provisions
of this Title may be heard by .a vice-chancellor, shall be filed in the
office of the register, assistant register or clerk, with whom the bill or 
petition in the cause was filed ; in other cases,. such pleadings and 
proceedings may be filed in the office of the register, assistant register,
or any clerk, or in such of them as the chancellor may by general rules 
direet.
'5~. In the cases in which the vice-chancellors have jurisdiction, 
according to the provisions of this Title, they shall respectively pro- 
~ 
~ upon the bills and petitions presented to them, and shall possess 
'!! the powers and authority of the court of chancery, except where 
«llirerent provisions have been or shall be made by law ; subject in all 
CUes to the appellate jurisdiction of the chancellor. 
SEC. 8. All orders and decrees in the court of chancery, shall been-
titled as made before the chancellor; or vice-chancellor, aoconling to 
the fact. All orders in a cause shall be entered with the clerk of the
court, or with the register or assistant register officiating 118 clerk of 
the court which entertains jurisdiction of such cause, in the same man­ 
ner as if made by the chancellor. 
SEC. 9. Any party complaining of any interlocutory or other order, 
, final d ad b . h 11 ithin
previous to a ecree m e y any vice-c ance or, may, w 
fifteen days after notice of such order, appeal therefrom to the chan-
cellor. And any party complaining of any final decree made by a vice­ 
chancellor, may appeal therefrom to the chancellor, within six months
after such decree shall have been entered in the minutes of the court ;
and such appeal may be made, notwithstanding the decree may have
been enrolled. 
SEC. 0. Every such appeal shall be made, by serving notice thereof on
the solicitor of the adverse party, and on the register, assistant register
or clerk, with whom the order or decree appealed from was entered. 
SEC. 1. The chancellor shall, by general rules, to he varied as oeca­
sion may require, prescribe the effect of all orders and decrees made 
by a vice-chancellor, either before or after notice of an appeal shall be
given ; in what cases, to what extent, and on what terms, any such
order or decree shall be suspended or affected by an appeal ; the man-
ner in which appeals shall be brought to a hearing before him ; and
the papers and documents which shall be transmitted therewith, and
'by whom. 
SEC. 2. On the hearing of any such appeal, the chancellor shall an­
nul, affirm, modify or alter the order or decree appealed from, or make 
any other order in the cause, as justice may require; and may remit
the cause to the vice-chancellor who made the order appealed from,
for further proceedings, or may direct the same to be had before him­
self, as the circumstances of the case may require. 
SEC. 8. Whenever a cause, which might be heard by a vice-chan­
cellor, shall be ready to be set down for hearing, either party may 
apply to the chancellor for leave to set down the same for hearing be­
fore the chancellor; and he may direct the same to be set down ac­
cordingly, whenever from the difficulty of the case, or for any other 
reason, he shall think proper.
SEC. 4. An appeal shall not be made from any order or decree made 
by a vice-chancellor, to the court for the correction of errors, until
such order or decree shall have been brought before the chancellor for
review, and shall have been by him reversed, modified or affirmed ; 
except in cases where the chancellor is a party, or interested.
SEC. 5. Process issued out of the court of chancery, shall be in such 
form, expressive of the intent, as the chancellor shall from time to time
establish. 
26 
~ ~. Every such process shall be sealed with one of the seals of
the court; and wllen, from its nature, requiring to be executed bv the 
sheriff of any county, shall be directed to such sheriff. 
28 
SEC. 7. The four seals of the court heretofore devised, shall continue
to be the seals thereof. One of the said seals shall continue to be de:- 
posited '!ith the assistant register in the city of New-York, one with
the register in the city of Albany, one with the clerk of the court at
the village of Poughkeepsie, and one with the clerk at the village of 
Utica. 
26 
SEC. 8. There shall be four additional seals of the court of chancery,
which shall be made at the expense of this state, under the directions 
of the chancellor, corresponding to the present seals of the court ; one
of which shall be deposited with each of the clerks in the fourth, 
sixth, seventh and eighth circuits.
SEC. 9. It shall be the duty of the register, assistant register and 
clerks in chancery, to f urnish to any solicitor of the said court, when 
• 
required, and upon payment of the fees allowed by Jaw, blank process
to appear and answer to bills; and blank process to compel the at­
tendance of witnesses before any vice-chancellor, examiner or com­
mis.,ioner, with the seal cf the court impressed thereon, and with the
name of such process printed on the body of such seal. 
SEC. 0. Process for appearance shall not issue from· the court of
chancery, until the bill praying the same shall have been filed.21 
SEC. 1. No injunction shall be issued in any case, until the bill shall
have been filed. 2'I 
SEC. 2. When a commission shall be issued to take a defendant's an-
nrer, no copy or abstract of the bill shall be annexed thereto. 21 
SEC. 8. When a defendant, brought into court by writ of habeas cor- 
• 
pus or other process, shall neglect or ref use to enter his appearance, 
according to the rules of the court, the court shall order his appear- 
ance to be entered; aQd the suit shall then proceed, as if the party had
actually appeared. 
28 
SEC. 4. In all cases not otherwise provided for by law, bills shall be 
taken u confessed, and orders and decrees may be made by default, 
according to such rules as the chancellor shall from time to time esta- 
hli&h.~ 
SEC. 5. When the appearance of a defendant shall have been enter- 
eel, acconling to the practice of the court, it shall be the duty of the 
complain~ to serve on the party so appearing, copies of the plead-
inp and proceedings at any time filed in the cause on the part of the 
OOlllplainant. ao 
" 
SEC. 6. It shall in like manner be the duty of a defendant, after ap- 
pearance, to serve on the complainant copies of all pleadings and pro­ 
ceedings so filed on the part of such defendant.11 
SEC. 7. If the complainant or defendant shall have appeared by a 
solicitor, the service of the pleadings and proceedings shall be made 
on or•by such solicitor.s! 
SEC. 8. The chancellor may direct a commission to be issued, to any 
person or persons, to take testimony in any cause depe mg m e 
court of chancery. The vice-chancellors may also direct such com· 
missions to be issued, in those causes which they are respectively au­ 
thorised to hear, by the provisions of this Title.12 
SEC. 9. Such commission may also be issued by the register, assistant 
register, or either of the clerks, under such regulations as the chan­ 
cellor may from time to time prescribe." 
SEC. 0. Such commission -shall be issued, upon the petition of the 
party desirous that such testimony should be taken. 
11 
SEC. 1. The petition must name the person or persons to whom the 
commission is prayed to be directed ; and such notice of the applica­ 
tion shall be given to the adverse party, as the chancellor shall, by a 
general rule of court, direct. 
31 
~ 82 .. The person or persons so commissioned, shall have full au- 
thority to administer all necessary oaths or affirmations, to all wit· 
nesses examined under the commission. 
80 
SEC. 8. The respective parties and their counsel, may be present at
the examination of any witness, produced before a vice-chancellor or 
an examiner, or under a commission ; and every such witness may be 
examined, cross-examined, and re-examined orally. H 
SEC. 4. Whenever it shall appear to a vice-chancellor, that it is ex·
pedient that the witnesses in any cause authorised to be heard by him, 
should be examined in the presence of such vice-chancellor, he shall 
order such examination to be had accordingly, either at a stated or
special term. 
SEC. 5. Whenever it should appear to the chancellor, that it is ex- 
di , . 
pe rent that the witnesses- m any cause not authorised to be heard by 
a vice-chancellor, shall be examined by a vice-chancellor, the chan­
cellor shall order such examination to be had before any vice-chancel­
lor to be designated by him. 
SEC. 6. Whenever any order for the examination of witnesses shall 
• • • 
have been made, as provided m the two last sections, no witness shall 
be examined by either party, before an examiner, or upon a commis­
sion, without the special direction of the chanceJJor or vice-chancellor
making such original order. 
ndi · th 
SEC. 7. The chancellor shall prescribe rules for the examination of 
witnesses, so that an order may be entered by either party, requiring 
the adverse party to proceed and finish such examination, within such
time as the chanceJlor shall, by general rules, direct, and precluding 
any further or other examination of witnesses, after the expiration of 
such time, without the special order of the chancellor, or of the vice- 
chancellor authorised to hear the cause. 
SEC. 8. The chancellor may, from time to time, make such rules as 
he shall think proper, concerning the examination of witnesses, before
examiners or commissioners within this state, and concerning the use 
of written interrogatories for the examination of witnesses residing
out of this state, 
SEC. 9. The testimony of all witnesses shall be reducedto writing; 
bef . . . h Il b .
a w en en rore a comrmssioner or examiner, s a e s1gne 
nd
h
tak 
by the witnesses and filed in the office of the clerk of the court, or re­ 
gister, or assistant register, in which thebill and other proceedings in
tJ1e cause shall have been filed. 
85 
SEC. 0. Subpoenas to hear judgment, shall not be necessary; but all 
causes shall be brought to hearing, under such rules as the chancellor 
shall from time to time, prescribe. 
86 
SEC. 1. After the expiration of thirty days from the time a final de- 
cree shall have been entered in the minutes of the court, ifno appeal 
shall have been entered therefrom, and if no petition for a rehearing 
shall have been presented, upon being required by either party, the
register, assistant register or clerk, by whom such final decree shall 
have been entered, shall attach together the· bill, pleadings and other 
papen filed in the cause, together with the taxed bill of costs therein, 
and shall annex thereto, a fair, engrossed copy of the decretal order of 
the chancellor or vice-chancellor, signed by the chancellor, or by the
vice-chancellor rendering such decree, and countersigned by the re-
gister, assistant register or clerk, who entered the same. 
SEC. 2. The papers and proceedings so ~ttached, annexed and signed,
shall then be filed by the register, assistant register or clerk, and shall 
remain.of record in his office; arid such filing shall be deemed' an en-
rolment of the decree and proceedings, with the like effect as was for- 
merly given to enrolled decrees. 
31 
~ 9S. The register and assistant register, or clerk, shall make and
preserve an alphabetical docket, in which shall be entered, upon the 
request of any party thereto, all final decrees so filed and enrolled, di- 
reeling the payment of any debt, damages, costs or other sum of mo- 
ney. 
8" 
SEC. 4. Upon such request being made, and on the party paying the 
~ allowed for <locketing ~such decree, and for making and send-!:;:~:
-------·------- --------------~--------·· ~--- 
ing transcripts of such docket, as herein after directed, the register, as­ 
sietant register. or clerk, shall enter in such d~ket a statement of such 
decree, containing, 
1. The names at length of all the parties to such decree, designat­
ing particularly those against whom it is rendered, the county of which 
they are respectively residents, if they are residents. of this state, and 
if not, the state, or country in which they reside, and their title, trade
or profession, if any such be stated in the proceedings on which the 
decree is founded: 
2. The amount of the debt, damages, costs or other sum of money 
directed to be paid by such decree : 
a. The hour and day of entering such docket : 
And such statement shall be repeated under the name of each per·
son against whom the decree was rendered, in the alphabetical order 
of their names respectively. 
SEC. 5. The register, assistant register or clerk, entering such docket, 
shall immediately transmit a-certified transcript thereof, to each of the 
clerks of the supreme court, in the cities of New- York and Albany, 
and in the village of Utica; and the said clerks, on the receipt there­
of, shall immediately enter such transcripts, with their dockets of 
judgments in the supreme court, in the same manner as the transcripts 
of such judgments, except that they shall designate in the margin of 
such entry, that the same is made of a decree in the court of chancery. 
SEC. 6. Every final decree, which shall hereafter be made in the 
court of chancery, directing the payment of any debt, damages, costs 
or sum of money, shall bind and be a charge upon the lands, tene- 
ments, real estate and chattels real, of every person against whom such 
decree shall be rendered, which such person may have at the time of 
the docketing of such final decree by the register, assistant register
or clerk, as herein before directed, or which such person shall acquire
at any time thereafter. 
SEC. 7. Every such final decree shall cease to be a lien, or to bind 
any such property, against purchasers in good faith, and against in­ 
cumbrances subsequent to such decree, by mortgage, judgment, decree
or otherwise, from and after ten years from the time of filing such de­ 
cree. 
SEC. 8. Upon producing and filing with the register, assistant regis­
ter or clerk, with whom any decree may have been docketed, a writ· 
ten acknowledgment by the party in whose favor such decree wasren:
dered, that he has been fully paid and satisfied the amount of all mo­ 
nies directed to he paid by such decree, certified by some vice-ehan­ 
cellor or master in chancery, to have been duly acknowledged before
him by the party signing the same, and that such party was known
or made known to him by competent proof, the register, assistant re­ 
gister or clerk, shall enter in the docket of such decree, a satisfaction 
and diiCbarge thereof; and such decree shall thereupon be discharged, 
and be of no force or validity. . 
SEC. 9. The court shall have power to order the docket of a decree
to be discharged, upon a hearing of the parties, and upon satisfactory 
Hidence-that such decree has been fully paid and satisfied. 
SEC. 0. Upon any decree being so discharged, and upon any de- 
bei h II ..... _.J ted, th · • . 
tree mg w o y reversec or vaca e register, aMlltant register 
or clerk, with whom the same may have been filed, shall immediately 
transmit to the clerks of the supreme court, a certificate of such fact, 
who shall thereupon enter in the transcript of the docket of such de- 
cree, the fact that the same is discharged, reversed or vacated. 
~ IOI. When it shall appear to the chancellor, to a vice-chancel-f:•:it!i 
lor, or to Anv master authorised to tax coats in the court of chancery, 
-V 
that the depositions of any witnesses have been unnecessarily prolix,
or that such depositions were unnecessary in the cause, the charges 
therefor shall be disallowed in the taxation of costs, either as against 
the adverse party, or as between solicitor and client. And the chan- 
eellor, or vice-chancellor may, at the hearing of any cause, order that 
no allowance shall be made to a solicitor for any such aepositions, or 
for any other proceeding which shall appear to have been unnecessa- 
ry, or for any pleading which shall appear to have been unnecessarily
prolix. . 
SEC. 2. Such of the minutes of the court as the chancellor shall di- 
rect, shall be fairly transcribed into books to be provided for that pur- 
pose, in such manner and under such regulations as he shall prescribe. 
SEC. 3. Such transcripts, after they shall have been duly compar- 
ed with the original, and approved by the chancellor, shall have the 
like efrect as the original minutes of the court.18 
SEC. 4. The court may enforce performance of any decree, or obe- 
dience thereto, by execution against the body of the party against 
"hom such decree shall have been made ; or by execution against the 
goods and chattels, and in default thereof, the lands and tenements of
such party. But no process shall be issued on any final decree, until 
the same shall have been enrolled, as herein before provided. 
SEC. 5. Until an actual leTy, no. goods or chattels shall be bound
by such execution, as against a purchaser, without notice.39 
SEC. 6. Whenever a bill shall be filed in any court of equity, for 
r'. th be th · I
re , ior e nefit of e creditors general y of any person or of 
liec 
any estate, or for the benefit of any other _persons than the complain- 
ants, who will come in and contribute to the expense of such suit,
every order which may be' made thereon, requiring such creditors or 
0tber 
penona to exhibit their demands, shall, in all cases, be publish- 
ed once in each week, for at least three weeks, and as much longer as 
11
- 
18 
the court may direct, in the state paper, and in a newspaper printed 
in the county where such demands are required to be exhibited. 
SEC. 7. When the cause of action shall survive, no suit in chancery 
shall abate by the death of one or more of the complainants or de-
fendants; but upon satisfactory suggestion to the court of such death, 
the suit shall proceed in favor of, or against the surviving parties. 
SEC. 8. When one or more of the complainants or defendants shaH
die, and the cause of action shall not survive, the suit shall abate only 
as to the person or persons so dying; and the surviving parties may 
proceed without reviving the suit.40 ' 
SEC. 9. No hill of revivor shall be necessary to revive a suit against
the representatives of a deceased defendant; but the court may, by 
order, direct the same to stand revived, upon the petition of the com­
plainant. 
40 
SEC. 0. A copy of such order shall be served upon the represents-
tives against whom the revival is ordered; who shall be' allowed eighty
days after such service, to appear and answer; or disclaim. 
SEC. 1. If they shall not, within that. time, appear and answer or 
WlllC aim, t e court, upon ue proo o t e service o sue or er, mar 
discl · h d f f h " f h d 
cause their appearance to be entered ; and in such case, the answer
of the deceased party shall be deemed the answer of such represents­ 
tives.40 
SEC. 2. In such case, if no answer shall have been filed '6y the de·
ceased party, the court may, in its discretion, order the bill to be ta·
ken as confessed against such representatives, or compel them to an·
swer by attachment or otherwise. 
40 
SEC. 8. If the deceased party shall have answered, and the com­
plainant shall deem it necessary to obtain a further answer from his
representatives, the petition for revival shall state the matters as to 
which such further answer is required, and a copy of such petition
shall be annexed to a copy of the order to be served on such represen­
tatives. 
SEC. 4. In such case, if the representatives shall not appear and put
in such further answer, or disclaim, within eighty days after the ser­
vice of the petition and order, the court, upon due proof of such set·
vice, may order the petition to be taken as confessed, or compel such
further answer by attachment or otherwise. 
SEC. 5. When a complainant shall die, and the cause o( action shall 
not survive, his representatives may, on affidavit of such death, and
on motion in open court, be made complainants in the suit, and be per­
mitted, if necessary, to amend the bill. 
41 
40 
40 
SEC. 6. The defendant shall be compelled to answer such amended
bill, and the causes shall proceed to issue and a hear.isg, as in ordinary 
U 
ea,es. . 
SEC. 7. When the representatives shall not cause themNl¥eS 10 be 
made
I
• "th" • h d -A- .. \... death ( --.I 
comp amants Wl m eig ty ays a1u.,r UJ6 o a :deoe111M:U 
complainant,~ sun.bing complainant may proceed to make them 
defendants in the suit, as in cases where the representatives of a de- 
OIBNd deilndant ue made parties. u 
SEC. 8. If there be no surviving complainant, or he shall neglect or 
refuse to proceed against the representatives of· the deceased com­ 
plainant as defendants, the court, upon the petitien of the original de­ 
fendant, may order such representatives to show cause, at a certain 
day to be named in such order, why t1-e suit llhould not stand revived 
in their names, or the bill be dismissed, as far as the interests of auen 
repraaentatives are concerned.
SEC. 9. If no such cause be then shown, the court, up<>n proof of 
the reasonable service of a copy of the order upon such represeata­ 
ti-res, may order the revival of the suit in their names, or the dismiual 
of the bill, with costs, or otherwise.
~ l!O. If a defendant shall die, and the cause of action shall not 
· d th J • h 11 I ~
IUrVlve, an e comp amant s a neg ect or reruse to procure an or- 
tier for the revival of the suit, the court may order- it to. stand re•ived, 
upon the petitien of a surviving defendant, against the representati.-es 
of the deceased party. 
~ l!l. In such case, the surviving defendant IDilY proceed against 
such representatives, in the same manner as a complainant, to compel 
them to appear, abide the answer of the deceased party, or answer, if 
an answer be required, or to have the bill or his petition taken as con­ 
fessed against them; and the court may, in its discretion, stay the suit 
u against him, until such proceedings shall hare been bad. 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
OJ Proceeding, againat Absent, Conceale<l, and Non-Ruilhttt
Def etUl<mls. 
Ike. m. le wllllt «-ee, b. ordes to bit JIIMie' that delendaot -.,..-,. 
SEC. 3. T~e wit.Jain which appearance ,hall be required. 
SEC. 4. Order how publi1hed, when publication unnece11ary. 
lZ. Timttfbr ~maybe ezteJUlecl. 
SEC. 6. eo.a.e41UDee of default iu appµring; reference to ma,ter. 
SEC. 7. l>aty of muter; proof of fact, in eauee. 
SEC. 8. Cue, in which complainant mull be examined.
lW. Martu to report proceedings thereon. 
lat. Perfonmnee of dteree h~• enfoteed, 
111, P:t,paty not &o 1,e ~ered ll!ltil securitj l,e &iY811, 
SEC. 1. 
Iii. ~ree 111,ay be ntiafied, upon security being given. 
1•. When decree to be confirmed. 
SEC. 6. Decree io IIUU mpioat mortpgon. 
SEC. 7. When they may appear; proceedings thereon.
SEC. 8. Salea not aft'ected by appeannce ol defenclut, &«:. 
SEC. 2. After the filing of a bill, the court shall make an order for 
SEC. 6. If the defendant shall not appear within the time limited in
the order, upon due proof of such publication as shall have been re- 
quired, or of the personal service of such order as herein provided,
the complainant's bill shall be taken as confessed, and the court shall
direct a reference to a master, to take proof of the facts and circum- 
stances stated in such bill. 
48 
• • 
the appearance of a defendant at a future day therem to be speciied, 
he ' afte d' ted ' the &'. 11 •
as rein r tree , m 10 owmg cues : 
1. When the defendant resides out of th.ii state, upon proof IJy affi­
davit of that fact: 
2. When the defendant is a resident of this state, upon proof by
affidavit, that process for his appearance has been duly issued, and
that the same could not be served, by reason of his absence from, or
concealment within, the state, or by reason of his continued absence 
from the place of his residence. 
43
· 
SEC. 3. The order shall require the defendant to appear and m-
swer the bill, as follows : 
1. If he be a resident of the state, within three months from its
date: 
2. If he be not a resident of this state, but of some other of the
United States, or of one of the territories thereof, or of either of the
provinces of Canada, within four months from its date: 
a. If he be a resident of any other state or country not before men­
tioned, within nine months from its date. 
41 
SEC. 4. Such order shall be published within twenty days afterit 
shall have been made, in the state paper, and such other public paper 
printed in this state, as the court may direct, for eight weeks in sue­
cession, and once at least in each week ; but such publication shall 
be • . hi h f h rd shall ha
not necessary, 10 any case 10 w ic a copy o sue o er ve 
been served on such absent, concealed or non-resident defendant, per­
sonally, at least twenty days before the time prescribed for the ap­
pearance of such defendant. 
48 
SEC. 5. The chancellor may, if necessary, by further order extend
the time for the appearance of such defendant ; and in that case, shall 
direct the publication of such further order for so long a time as be
shall fix. 
43 
SEC. 7. The master to whom such reference is made, shall take
such proofs as may be offered. The bill shall not be considered as
evidence of any fact stated therein ; but when so directed by the 
chancellor, the master may receive the testimony of the complainant 
as evidence.
SEC. 8. Whenever the bill shall have been filed for the payment or 
satisfaction of any sum of money, the court shall direct that the oom-
plainant be examined by the master, as to any payments that may 
have been made to him, or to any person for his use, on account of 
the demand mentioned in the bill, and which ought to be credited on 
such demand. 
SEC. 9. The master shall report the proofs and examinations had 
be!c,re him ; and on the coming in thereof, the chancellor shall make 
suci order thereupon, as shall be just. 
! ISO. Process shall then issue to compel the performance of such 
~ree, either by sequestration of the real and personal estate, of the 
..J~ _ • • 
defendant, or such part thereof as shall be deemed sufficient ; or where 
any specific estate or effects are demanded by the bill, by causing pos­
ll!lliGo of the property so demanded, to be delivered to the complain­ 
ant. 44 
SEC. 1. Possession, in the case last mentioned, shall not be deliver- 
ed until the complainant shall have given such security, and in such:~:.:_ 
sum as the court shall direct, to abide the order of the court touching
the restitution of the estate or effects delivered, in case the defendant 
shall appear and be admitted to defend the suit. 
SEC. 2. Upon the like security being given, the court, when a se-
questration shall have issued, may order the decree to be satisfied out 
of the estate and effects sequestered ; but if such security shall not be 
given, the estate and effects sequestered shall remain under the di­ 
rection of the court, to abide its further order. 
44 
SEC. 8. If the defendant against whom such decree shall have been 
made, or his representatives, shall afterwards appear and petition to 
be heard, the party so petitioning, upon paying, or securing to be paid, 
such costs as the court shall adjudge, shall be admitted to answer the
complainant's bill ; and the suit shall then proceed, in like manner as 
if such defendant had appeared in due season, and no decree had been 
made.4«
SEC. 4. The defendant, or his representatives, must so appear with- 
in one year after notice in writing of the decree shall have been given 
to him or them ; and within seven years after the making of the de- 
cree, when such notice shall not be given. 
44 
SEC. 5. If the defendant or his representatives shall not so appear 
be
'"-- th . . r ft h . hall h bee 
aure e expiration o one year a er sue notice s ave n 
given, and if not given, of seven years after the making of the de­ 
cree, the court shall then, by order, confirm the decree against the 
defendant, and against all persons claiming under him by virtue of 
any act subsequent to the commencement of the ni~ and may make
such further order in the premises as shall be just and reasooa.bl:er. u 
SEC. 6. If the bill shall have be•h filed to procure the foffitloture
or satisfaction of a mortgage, the court, instead of proceeding to a• 
questration in the manner herein before directed, may decree a u of 
the mortgaged premises, or of such part thereof as may be nece811l'Y 
to dischuge the mortgeget and the costs of suit, as in other CIIBI~ 
SEC. 7. In the case mentioned in the last preceding section, if the
defendant, at any time before the sale of the mortgaged premises, shall 
appear and pay to the complainant such costs as the court shall award,
the court shall stay the sale; and the iame proceedings sbnll be~
after had, as if the defendant had been served with proce1S, and had
regularly appeared. 
46 
SEC. 8. No sale and conveyance regularly made under the preeed- 
• · • • bill filed £'. h £'. I 'sfa . f
mg provrsrens, upon a ror t e torec osure or sat1 ction o a 
mortgage, shall be affected or prejudiced by the appeal'llnce of the de.
fendant within the one Jear, or the seven years herein before specifi·
ed, nor by any other proceeding ; but such defendant, or his represen­ 
tatives, may, at any time within seven years after the decree ordering
such sale, file a bill against the complainant, or his representatives, to
account for all monies received by them, by virtue of such decree, over
and above the amount justly due en the mortgage, and costs of suit;
and the court shall proceed upon such bill, according to the equity of 
the case. 
411
· 
A.RTICLE FIFTH. 
Of the Granting of Injunctim,~ to stay Proceedings at Law. 
SEC. 9. Trials in personal actions not to be stayed, until bond be given. 
UO. Pre-req1li11ite1 for ataying proceedingt after "ferdiot, in penonal actiom.
NI. lb. for staying proceedings after judgment.
SEC. 2. When money deposited may be paid to plaintitf at law. 
SEC. 3. Proceedings i( fmal deeision be in his favor.
1.Y, Pre-requiaites for staying proceedings after Yerdict in ejectment, &e. 
SEC. 5. Damages of staying proceedings, how ascertained,
SEC. 6. Bond m:iy be received instead of deporit of monies.
SEC. 7. In certain cues, deposits and bonda maybe diapemed with. 
US. Sufficiency of sureties in bonds, how ucertained.
SEC. 9. Honch herein required, where and when to be filed.
SEC. 0. Bonda, when to be delivered to obligee for proaocution. 
SEC. 9. No injunction shall be issued to stay the trial of any per-
sooal action at issue in a court of law, until the party applyi11g there­
for, shall execute a bond, with one or more sufficient sureties, to the 
plaintiff' in such action at law, in such sum as the chancellor or mas­
ter allowing the injunction shall direct, conditioned for the payment 
to the said plaintiff and his legal representatives, of all monies which 
may be recovered by such plaintiff' or his representatives, or the col­
lection of which may be stayed by such injunction, in such action at 
~ ---- 
46 
law; for debt or damages, and for costs therein; and also for the pay- 
llellt of such costs as may be aw•rded to them in the court of chance-
ry, in the suit in which such injunction shall issue. 
SEC. 0. No injunction shall be issued to stay proceedings at law HIP,· 
uiy personal action, after verdict, and before judgment thereupon, un-
lea a sum of money, equal to the amount for which the verdict was 
~veo, and the costs of suit, shall be first deposited with the court of
chancery, by the party applying for such injunction, or a bond for the
payment thereof, shall be given as herein after directed. 
SEC. 1. No injunction shall isaue to ~tay prooeedings at law., in
aay personal action, afmr judgment, IIRI~, 
1. A sum of money equal to the full amount of 111ch judgment, in­
cludi~ costs, shall be first deposited by the party applying tor auch 
injunction, or a bond in lieu thereof, be giv~n, as berein after directed :
~ . 
i. Unless such party, in addition to snch deposit. •hall also exe­
cute a bond, with one or more sufficient sureties, to the plaintii' in 
the said judgment, in such sum as the chancellor or officer allowing the
injunction ,hall direct, conditioned for the payment to the said plaintiff 
and his legal representatives, of all such damages and coats as may be
awarded to them by the court, at the final hearing of the cause. 
SEC. 2. If after a verdict or judgment at law, any monies shall be
deposited in the court of chancery, pursuant to either of the two last 
sections, the same may be paid, on the order of the court, to the plain-
titT in such action at law, upon his executing a bond to the people of
this state, in a penalty double the amount so deposited, with such 
sureties as the court shall approYe, conditioned that such plaintiff will
pay to the register or assistant register, as the case may 'be, the- mo-
nies which he shall so receive and the interest thereon, or any part
thereof, according to any order or decree of the court of chancery,
that may be made in relation to the same. 
~ US. Whenever the monies so deposited shall be paid to the
plaintiff in the action at law, if the final decision of the cause in chan- 
ttry be against the party obtaining the injunction, the chancellor may 
order any bond that may have been given by such plaintiff, to be can-
celled, aad shall continue the injunction to stay the collection of the 
judgment at law, or shall compel the plaintiff therein to cause such
judgment to be satisfied and discharged of record. 
SEC. 4. No injunction shall issue to stay proceedings at law, in any 
lCtion, for the recovery of lands or of the possession thereof, after ver- 
~- 
wet, unless the party applying therefor, shall execute a bond, with
one or more sureties, to the plaintiff in such action at law, in such sum 
a.~ ~e chanl--ellor or officer allowing the injunction shall direct, con-
ditioned ior the payment ~o the plaintiff in 1Uch action, and his legal 
representatives, of all such damages and costs, as may be awarded to 
them, in case of a decision against the party obtaining such injunction. 
SEC. 5. The damages to be paid upon the dissolution of such in- 
junction, shall be ascertained by reference to a master, and shall in­
clude, not only the reasonable rent.sand profits of the land recovered
by such verdict, but all waste committed thereon, after the granting
of the injunction. 
SEC. 6. The chancellor shall have power to dispense with any de­
posit of monies required by either of the preceding sections, and in
lieu thereof, to direct the execution of a bond, with sureties, condi­ 
tioned to pay the amount so required to be deposited, whenever or­
dered by the court of chancery ; or if a bond is already required, in
addition to such deposit, then to direct the enlargement of the pe­ 
nalty and condition of such bond, as may ho requisite. But when­
ever such deposit shall be dispensed with, the bond so substituted or
enlarged, shall be executed by at least two sufficient sureties. 
SEC. 7. Whenever an injunction shall be applied for, to stay pro-
ceedings at law, in any action after judgment or verdict, on the ground 
that such judgment or verdict was obtained by actual fraud, the chan­
cellor shall have power to dispense with the deposit of any monies, 
or the execution of any bond. 
SEC. 8. The sufficiency of the sureties in any bond, executed un­
der the provisions of this Article, shall be ascertained, either, 
1. By the certificate of any master in chancery, stating that he has
inquired into the circumstances of such sureties, and is satisfied with 
their sufficiency : or, 
SEC. 2. By the affidavit of each surety, stating that he is a householder
resident within this state, and that he is worth a sum equal to the
amount in which the bond shall have been required, over and above
all debts and demands against him. 
Every such certificate and affidavit shall be annexed to, or endors­
ed on the bond. 
SEC. 9. Whenever a bond shall be required to be executed, pursu-
ant to the provisions of this Article, prior to the issuing of an injunc- 
tion, the same with the certificate or affidavit above required, shall
be filed with the register, assistant register or clerk, before the sealing
and delivery of the injunction. 
SEC. 0. The chancellor shall direct the delivery of any bond exe-
cuted under the provisions of this Article, to the person entitled to
the benefit thereof, for prosecution, whenever the condition of such
bond shall be broken, or the circumstances of the case shall require
such delivery. 
ARTICLE SIXTH. 
Of IAe Power, and Proceedings of tM Court, upon Billa for tM 
Forecloavre or SatiB/action of Mortgages. 
SEC. 1. Upoa 1111ch bill,, court may decree nle of premua, 
• 
SEC. 2. May decree payment of balance due after ale.
SEC. 3. Sllitl at law prohibited, after filing bill. 
lit Payment of balance by 1urety of mortgagee, may be decreed. 
SEC. 5. ProeeediDp at law to be dated in bill.
SEC. 6. In certain cue, execution at Jaw mu.It have been returned.
SEC. 1. s.Je. of mortg.ged premilu, when and by whom to be made. 
SEC. 8. Deed. thereon; their eft"ect.
IS. Proeeecb of we., how applied. 
la>. Sarphu, when to be innlted. 
SEC. 1. Del'eadant may diamil1 bill, on paying portiou, &c. due.
16!. Proceeding• if payment made after decree fo.r sale. 
SEC. 8. Proceed.inp ifno pa:,meat made; when put o(prem.i1u to be aold.
16&. Proceed.inp to collect 1111bNq11ent inltalmenll.
SEC. 5. In what cue1, the whole of mortgaged prcmiaes to be sold. 
SEC. 6. Proceed. of ales, in 111eh euee, how applied, 
SEC. 1. Whenever a bill shall be filed for the foreclosure or satisfac- 
tion of a mortgage, the court shall have power to decree a sale of the 
roortgaged premises, or such part thereof as may be sufficient to dis- 
charge the amount due on the mortgage, and the costs of suit. 
SEC. 2. When a bill shall be filed for the satisfaction of a mortgage,
the court shall not only have power, to decree and compel the delive-::~ 
ry of the possession of the mortgaged premises to the purchaser there-
o~ but on the coming in of the report of sale, the court shall also have
power to decree and direct the payment, by the mortgagor, of any ba- 
lance of the mortgage debt, that may remain unsatisfied after a sale of 
the premises, in the cases in which such balance is recoverable at law
and for that purpose, may issue the necessary executions, 88 in other 
caaes, against other property of the mortgagor, or against his person.
SEC. 8. After such bill shall be filed, while the same is pending, 
aDd after a decree rendered thereon, no proceedings whatever shall be 
had at law, for the recovery of the debt secured by the mortgage, or
any part thereof; unless authorised by the court of chancery. 
SEC. 4. If the mortgage debt be secured by the obligation or other 
eridence of debt hereafter executed, of any other person besides the
mortgagor, the complainant may make such person a party to the bill,
alMl the court may decree payment of the balance of such debt remain- 
ing Ull8atisfied, after a sale of the mortgaged premises, 88 well against
such other person as the mortgagor, and may enforce such decree as in 
other cues.
SEC. 5. Upon filing a bill for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a 
Jnortgage, the complainant shall state therein, whether any proceed- 
ings have been had at law, for the recovery of the debt secured there- 
by, or any part thereof; and whether such debt, or any part thereof, 
bu been collected. 
4" 
SEC. 6. If it appear that any judgment bu been obtained in a suit 
at law, iir tile meoies demancled by s1.1eb bill, or any part thereof, no 
proceedings shall be had in 10011 cue, unleu to an execution against
the property of the defendant in auch judgment, the sheritf shall have
returned that the said execution is unsatisfied, in whole or in part, 
and that the defendant has no property whereof to satisfy such execu­ 
tion, except the mortgaged premises. 
SEC. 7. All sales of mortgaged premises, under the decree of the 
court of chancery, shall be made by a master in chancery, in the coun­
ty where the premises or some part of them are situated, unless other-
wise directed in the decree of sale. 
48 
SEC. 8. Deeds shall thereupon be executed by such master, which
shall vest in the purchaser the same estate, ( and no other or greater,)
that would have vested in the mortgagee, if the equity of redemption 
had been foreclosed ; and such deeds shall be as valid as if the same
were executed by the mortgagor and mortgagee, and shall be an entire 
bar against each of them, and against all parties to the suit in which 
the decree for such sale was made, and against their heirs respectively, 
and all claiming under such heirs. 
48 
SEC. 9. The proceeds of every sale made under the decree of a
court of chancery, shall be applied to the discharge of the debt adjudg· 
ed by such court to be due, and of the costs awarded ; and if there
shall be- any surplus it shall be brought into court for the use of the 
-defendant, or of the persop who may be entitled thereto, subject to the 
order of the court. 
48 
SEC. 0. If such surplus, or any part thereof, shall remain in thQ
said court for the term of three months, without being applied for, the 
chancellor shall direct the same to be put out at interest, under the 
direction of the court, for the benefit of the defendant, his representa­ 
tives or assigns, to be paid to them by the order of such court. 
SEC. 1. Whenevet a bill shall be filed for the satisfaction or fore- 
closure of any mortgage, upon which there shall be due any interest, 
or any portion or instalment of the principal, and there shall be other 
portions or instalments to become due subsequently, the bill shall be
dismissed, upon the defendant's bringing into court, at any time be­ 
fore the decree of Ale, the principal and interest due, with costs. 4t 
SEC. 1. If after a decree for sale entered agaiMt a dekndant in
such case, he shall bring into court the principal and interest due, 
with the costs, the pwceedings in the suit shall be stayed; but the 
court shall enter a decree of foreclosure and sale, to be enforced by a 
further order of the court, upon a subsequent default in the payment
of any portion or instalment of the principal, or of any interest there·
after to grow due.49 
48 
I 16S. If the defendant shall not bring into court the amount due, 
with costs, or if for any other cause, a decree shall pus for the com- 
nle:nen the ha
yuu-ut, court 8 ll direct a reference to a master, to ascertain 
and report • situation of the mortgaged premises ; and if it shall ap· 
pear that the same can be sold in parcels, without injury to the in-
terests of the parties, the decree shall direct so much of the said pre- 
miaes to be sold, as will be sufficient to pay the amount then due on 
such mortgage, with costs ; and such decree shall remain as security 
for any subsequent default. 
ARTICLE SEVENTH. 
0/ Pr~eedinga in relation to the ContJeyance .o] Lands by Jn 
Jania, and the Sale a.nd Disposition of their Eatates. 
SEC. 7. IDfuta holdingbmda in tnut, b. laow compelled to ecmvey,
SEC. 8. Bl'ect ol nch ooanyuce. 
SEC. 8. 8poeitc perfonmnce, by want heir, of coatracta o(anc .. tot, ma)' be detreed,
SEC. 0. Juuata owning real property, may-,ply for Ale thereof. 
in. Gurmam to be appointed, 
4" 
SEC. 4. If in the case mentioned in the last preceding section, there 
SEC. 2. Gaardiaaa to give bond; condition thereof. 
• 
ahall be any default subsequent to such decree, m the payment of any 
portion or instalment of the principal, or of any interest due upon such 
mortgage, the court may, on the petition of the complainant, by a fur- 
ther order founded 1Jpon such first decree, direct a sale of so much of 
the mortgaged premises to be made under the said decree, as will be
IUfficient to satisfy the amount so due, with the costs of such petition 
and the subsequent proceedings thereon ; and the same proceedlngs 
lball be had, aa often as a default shaH happen.4" 
SEC. 5. If in any of the foregoing cues, it shall appear to the court, 
that the mortgaged premises are so situated, that the sale of the whole 
will be most beneficial to the parties, the decree shall, in the first in-
ltance, be entered for the sale of the whole premises accordingly.4' 
SEC. 6. In such case the proceeds of such sale shall be applied as 
well to the interest, portion or instalment of the principal due, aa to- 
wards the whole or residue of the sum secured by such mortgage, and 
DOt due and payable at the time of such sale; and if such residue do
not bear interest, then the court may direct the same to be paid, with a
deduction of the rebate of legal interest, for the time during which 
such residue shall not be due and payable; or may direct the balance 
ci the proceeds of such sale, after paying the sum due with costs, to 
be put out at interest, for the benefit of the complainant, to be paid 
to him, as the instalments or portions of the principal, or the interest,
IDIY become due, and the surplus for the benefit of the defendant, his 
repreamtatives or assigns, to be paid to them on the order of the
coort.41 
Sa:c. 173.. Bond, when to be prosecuted. 
16i. Whenever any infant shall be seised or possessed <i any 
lands, tenements or hereditaments, by way of mortgage, or in trust
only, for others, the court of chancery, on the petition of the guardian
of such infant, or of Any person in any way interested, may compel 
such infant to convey and assure such lands, tenements and heredita­
ments, to any other person, in such manner as the said court shall di­ 
rect. 
17-t Reference to maater to examinr. application. 
SEC. 5. When ooart to •tlaoriaa we, *o· ot Inda.
SEC. 6. But no dupoaiton to be made C41ltrary to aay 'frill. 
SEC. 7. Contracts foraales, &c. to be reported; conveyances thereon. 
SEC. 8. Uect o( sales and con~eyancu.
SEC. 9. lafaata ward of cou.rt; application or proceeds ,,r Alea.
SEC. 0. Interest of infant in proceeds of sale,
SEC. 2. How claim of dower in land1 sold, to be aatidled. 
48 
SEC. 8. Every conveyance or assurance, made pursuant to such or·
der, shall be as goo<l and effectual in the law, as if the same were 
. . 
made by such infant when of lawful age. 
48 
SEC. 9. The court of chancery shall have power to decree, and~
pel a specific performance, by any infant heir or other person, of any 
bargain, contract or agreement, made by any party who may die be­ 
fore the performance thereof, on petition of the executors or administra·
tors of the estate of the deceased, or of any person or persons interest­ 
ed in such bargain, contract or agreement, and on hearing all parties
concerned, and being satisfied that the specific performance of such 
bargain, contract or agreement, ought to be decreed or compelled." 
SEC. 0. Any infant seised of any real estate, or entitled to any terlP
for years in any lands, may, by his next friend or by bis guardian, ap­ 
ply to the court of chancery, for the sale or disposition of his property,
in the manner herein after directed. 
60 
SEC. 1. On such application, the court shall appoint one or lll<ff 
.suitable persons, guardians of such infant, in relation to the proceed· 
ings on such application. 
60 
SEC. 2. The guardians shall give bond to the infant, to be fitedwith
the register or assistant register, in such penalty, 1tith imcb sureties,
and in such form as the court shall direct, conditioned for the faitbfisl 
performance of the trust reposed ; for the paying over, investing aad
accounting for all monies that shall be received by such guardiens, 
according to the order of any court having authority to give direc­
tions in the premises ; and for the observance of the orders and direc·
tions of the court, in relation to the aid trust. 
60 
~ 17S. If such bond be forfeited, the,courtshall direct it to be pro­
secuted, for the benefit of the party injured. 
60 
SEC. 4. Upo• ·the filing of such bond, the court may proceed in a
Sdatrnary manner, by reference toa master, to inquire into the merits~ 
of such •p])lication. 
61 
SEC. 5. Whenever it shall appear satisfactorily that a disposition
( 
f th
l
f h
• r.. f hi • • 
o any part o e rea estate o sue infant, or o is interest m any
term for years, is nece~ary and proper, either for the support and 
maintenance of such infant, or for his education ; or that the interest
of suc1i infant requires, or will be substantially promoted bi, sach dis- 
position, on account of any part of his said. property being exposed to 
waate and dilapidation, or on account of its being wholly unproduc-
tive, or for any other peculiar reasons or circumstances, the court 
may order the letting for a term of years, the sale, or other disposi;.
tioo of such real estate or interest, to be made by such guardian or 
guanlians so appointed, in such manner, and with such restrictions, 
a, shall be deemed expedient. 
51 
SEC. 6. But no real estate or term for years, shall be sold, leased
or disposed of in any manner against the provisions of any last will,
or of any conveyance, by which such estate or term was devised or
granted to such infant. 
61 
SEC. 7. Upon an agreement for a sale, leasing or other disposition
of such property, being made in pursuance of such order, the same 
shall be reported to the court on the oath of the guardian making the
same; and if it be confirmed, a conveyance shall be executed under 
the directions of the court. 
51
. , _ 
SEC. 8. All sales, le8MS, dispositions &M eenveyances, made in
good faith by the guardian, in pursuance of such orders, when so .con- 
firmed, shall be valid and effectual as if maae by such infant when of 
full age.62 . . 
SEC. 9. From the time of 1ueh applieation· to the court, the iafant
shall be considered a ward of the court, st, far as relates to such pro- 
perty, its proceeds and income ; and the court shall make order for 
the application and disposition of the proceeds of; sneh property, and
for tbe investment of the surpJ..us. belonging to such infant, so as to se- 
cure the same for the benefit of such infilnt, and 8httll ·direct a return
of such investment and disposition to be made on oath, as soon as may 
~ and shall require accoun-m to be rendered periodically by any guar- 
un-er other person- who may be entrusted with the disJ)OS:ition of.the 
iacome,Qf" sueh proceeds.~3 
· · S 18&. N.o ale made !&S aforesaid~ of the real estate of any infant',
shall give to such in(ant any other or greater interest or ~state in the
~ ef euch a&le,. than ae bad in the estate so sold ; but the laid
~.llbatl be deemed realeSWe:of. the &ame nature 88 the proper- 
"-.J.fl 
SEC. 1. If the real estate of any infant, or any part of it, shall be 
subject to dower, and the person entitled thereto, shall CODl8Dt uurri­ 
ting to accept a gross sum in lieu of such dower, or the permanent in­ 
vestment of a reasonable sum, in such manner as that the intereat 
thereof be made payable to the person entitled to the said dower, dur­ 
ing life, the court may direct the payment of such sum in gross, or the 
investment of such sum, as shall be deemed reasonable, and shall be
acceptable to the person entitled to such dower, in manner afoNSaid; 
which sums so paid or invested, shall be taken out of the proceeds of
the sale of the real estate of such infant. 
TITLE III. 
OF THE SUPREME COURT.
SEC. 1. Pow ... ud jvudictiOD ortbe ooart. 
2. Tenm ortha court; umea o( commucing them. 
I. Plaeel of holding the eeveral term,. 
4. How long terma may be held.
6. Dmation or terms, aa reapecta proeu,; tem uul rura or prootN. 
8. Bow coart adjoWDed, on (allure o( any jadge to attend.
7. Coutable1 and 1herift'to attend comt; their compeuation. 
8. 8eah of the coart retained. .
SEC. 4. 
SEC. 4. 
SEC. 2. Commoa retara dayl, b. to lie duiplted by oout, 
SEC. 8. Clerks to attend eaeh term; to po,M11 like powen, .to. 
SEC. 4. Clerks to appoint deputiee; •th to be take by them.
SEC. 1. Powen acl dlltiel of dfplltiel, in abeeace, b. of elerk. 
SEC. 8. Papen may be removed Crom clerb' of&ce, by eovt. 
SEC. 7. Certain papen may be destfoJ'ed, on order or court.
SEC. 8. Copiee ofre~ to be f'uailW by l1lpnlN oout ...,._.. 
19, Power or eovt to amend pnctice. 
!!!!!!!!!!! 
SEC. 1. 
SEC. 1. To compel parties to produce boob, papen, ~. 
SEC. 2. To preeeribe euea where diaoonry may be compellecl, ~. 
SEC. 8. Proeeedinga to obtain di1covery; order tlaereon. 
SEC. 4. In what oaaea aad by whom order may be ncatecl,
•· Prooeedhap may be ltayed, until order obeyed. 
SEC. 6. Limitation OD power o( court. in compelling di1c0Tery.
SEC. 7. Papen, Ac. produced on order, how far eridenee. 
SEC. 8. Daty o( juatice1 to revise rules at certain timet, 
1. The supreme court shall possess the powers, and exercise the
f 
jurisdiction, which belonged to the supreme court of the colony o
New·York, with the exceptions, limitations and additions, created and 
imposed by tho constitution and laws of this state. 
64 
~ 18!. Before any such sum shall be paid, or such investment made,
the court shall be satisfied that an effectual release of such right of 
dower has been executed. 
64 
SEC. 2. There shall be four several terms of the supreme court heW 
in each year, commencing as follows, viz: On the first Monday,·of 
January, May and July, and the third Monday o_f October; which 
•id terms shall respectively be called the January, May, July, and
October terms of the said court. 
66 
f S. The terms shall be held at the following places : 
1. The January and October terms in each year, at the Capitol 
the city of Albany: 
J. The May term, in each year, at the City-Hall in the city 
New-York : and, 
1. The July term, in each year, at the Academy, in the town 
Utica." 
SEC. 4. The several terms may be continued and held from the com-
mencement thereof, until and including the fifth Saturday after the 
commencement of each term; but no argument of any cause shall be 
heani during the fifth week of any term, unless by the consent of par· 
ties, o( their counsel." 
SEC. 5. Each term, 10 far as respects the issuing, teste, and return 
. • 
procea, except subpcenas, attachments and writs of Aabeaa eorptU, 
aball be considered as ending on the second Saturday after its com·
rnencement. All process, except where otherwise provided. by law, 
if issued in term, may be tested on any day in that term, and made
returnable on any day in the same term, or the next term ; and if is-
sued in the neation, may be teated on any day in the preceding term, 
and be made returnable on any day in the next term." 
SEC. 6. If by reaaon of any casualty, neither of the justices of the said
court ahall att.end at any term thereof, on the first day of IUCh term,
ahall be the duty of the clerk of the said court, at any time after five 
o'clock in the afternoon of such day, to open the said court by procla- 
matioo, and immediately to adjourn the same to the next day, and 
to open and adjourn the said court from dpy to day, until the justices
ol the said court, or one of them, shall appear; when. the court shall
proceed to bwiness, as if it had been opened and adjourned by 'a justice 
thereof: 58 
SEC. 7. The sheriff of the county in which any term of the court shall 
be
he
. 
Id, shall, before the commencement of such term, summon two
constables of his county to attend the same. The said sher~ and the 
constables so summoned, shall attend the court during its sitting: and
the compensation allowed by law for such attendance, shall be paid 
out of the treasury of this state. 
69 
I a. The three seals of the court heretofore devised, and of which
a de.cription in writing has been deposited and recorded in the office 
oC the leCl'etary of thi1 s~te, shell centinue to be the seals of the court; 
and each clerk shall have the custody of one of them. 80 
SEC. 9. All process retlll'llable ill the aaid e&11rt shall be made retwa·
able as follows: "Before our justices o{ our supreme court ef jllliica­ 
ture, at the Capitol in the city of Albany," or "at the City-Hall in
the city of New-York," or "at the Academy in the town of Utica," u 
the case may be. 
61 
· i W. All process iuuing out of the supreme court, shall be tested
in the name·of the chief justice, or if there be no chief justice, iD tbe 
SEC. 1. Proceedings in the said court, and all pleadings and records 
name of any justice of the court. •1 
tberem, shall be stated to be " before the justicea of the supreme court
of judicature, of the people of the state of New-Y ork."81 
SEC. 1. The· court shall, from tune to time, by general rules, desig·
nate such dayB in each term, for common return daya, and for u. 
transaction of such special business, as shall be uaigned for 111ch
day.a.62 
I lS. At each term of the court, it shall be tJae duty of the clerk 
nlidiag in tJae place· in. which the same ia held, to attend ud officiate
• derl~ Each clerk of• court shall have the like powers, and be 
s~t to the like duties.u 
SEC. 4. Each of the clerks of the supreme court shall appoint some
proper person to be ~is deputy, by writing under his hand and seal, 
to be filed in his office. Every person so appointed deputy, shall take
and subscribe the constitu.tiooal oath of office. 
$ US. Whenever a clerk of the supreme court shall be absent from 
the, county where his office is situated, or shall be incapable of per· 
forming the duties of bis office, and wheneirer bi1 office shall be va­
cant, his deputy so appointed, may perform all the duties appertainitlg
to such office, during such absence, inabiHty or ncancy. 
~ 16'. The justices of the supreme court, may, from time to time,
direct theremoval of such records and papers, as they shall think pro- 
per, from the clerks' offices in the city of New-York and the town of
Utica, to the clerk's office in the city of Albany; and may also A-om
time to time direct the removal of any papers in a cause, from one
clerk's o8ice to another. 
63 
SEC. 7. The court may also from time to time, by an order to be en·
tered. in the minutes thereof, direct either of the clerks of the court, to
destroy any pleadings, niri prius records or venires, now filed, or that 
!hay hereafter be filed in either of the clerk's offices, which the court
shall deern to r.&ve beoome \l88MIS; but this provisioa, shall not au·
tllorise the. destruction- of any-judgmeat rolls, records or pl'OOISI, not 
herein before enumerated. 
88 
SEC. 8. , Tlae supreme oeurt reporter saall at his own expense, deliver 
one copy, bound in leather, of each 8\lccessi~ volume of the ,vr-- 
-fll\l'tJ 
pabliahed l,y bini, te the several clerks of the supreme coart, and to 
th& register and asaistant register of the court of chancery, for the U8e 
of tfloae courts; and also to the secretary of state 80 many copies 88 
shall he sufficient to supply the several courts of common pleas in thia
state, with o~e copy eacb.64 
SEC. 9. The supreme court shall have power, from time to time, by
general roles, to establish, modify, alter and amend the practioe in the
said court, in the cas~s not provided for by any statute. · 
~ !O. In cases not otherwise provided for, the supreme court shall!::=.
have power, from time to time, by general rules, to prescribe the ca· 
ses in which supreme court commissioners may grant orders to stay
proceedings in causes and matters pending in the said court, and upon 
proc.ess issued therefrom ; the effect of such orders ; and the terms
and conditions on whicll they shall be granted. 
, 2 l. The supreme court shall have power in such cases as shall 
be deemed proper, to compel any party to a suit pending therein, to 
produce and discover books, r,apers and documents in his possession 
or power, relating to the merits of any such suit, or of any defence 
therein. 
·~ I!. The court shall, 'by general rules, prescribe the . cases in
which such discovery may be compelled, and the proceedings for that 
purpoee, where the same are not herein provided ; and therein the
court shall be governed by the principles and practice of the court of 
cbancery in compelli.g discovery, except that the costs of such pro-
Cee«lings shall always be awarded in the discretion of the court. 
~ !S. To entitle a party to any such discovery, he shall present a
petition, verified by oath, to the court, or to any justice thereof, or to 
any circuit judge in vacation, upon which an order may be granted by 
the court or such officer, for .the discovery sought, or that the party 
against whom the same is sought should shew cause why the prayer 
of such petition should not be granted. 
SEC. 4. Every such order may be \ql£ated by the ofticer-gru~ing the
b
h
t 
•~, or y t e cour , . 
1. Upon satisfactory evidence that it ougnt not to have been granted: 
2. Upon the discovery sought, being made :
a. Upon the party required to make the discovery, denying on 
oath, the possession or control of the ~ papen or documents, or­ 
dered to be produced. 
SEC. 5. The court shall provide by general rules, for the staying of
. tha proceeding& of any· party, against whom such discovery shall have 
been ordered, either by the court or by an officer, until the same shall 
have been complied with or vacated. 
SEC. 6. In cue of the party refuaing or neglecting to .obey aucb er­
der for a discovery, within such time 88 the court shall deem reuona­ 
ble, the court may n01Huit him, or may strike out any plea or DOtice
he may have given, O!_ mar_~~bar him from any particular deft,nce in 
relation to which such ~.mughl; and the power of the 
court to compel such discovery, shall be confined to the remedies
herein provided, and shall not extend to authorise any other proceed· 
ings against the person or property of the party 80 refusing or neglect­ 
ing. 
SEC. 7. The books, papers and documents produced under any or·
der made in pursuance of the preceding sections, shall have the same 
e.fect, when used by the party requiring them, 88 if produced upon 
notice, according to the practice of the court.
SEC. 8. The justices of the supreme court, within two years after 
this Chapter shall commence and take effect, and at the expiration of
every seven years thereafter, shall revise the rules of the said court, 
with a view to the attainment, so far as may be practicable, of the (ol­
lowing improvements in the practice : 
1. The abolishing of fictitious and unnecessary process and pro-
ceedings: 
2. The simplifying and abbre~i.ating of pleadings and proceedings: 
a. The expediting the decision of causes:
,. The diminishing of costs: and, 
6. The remedying of such abuses and imperfections, aa may 'be
found to exist in the practice, in any class of action, cognizable in the
said court. 
811:c. I. Divi1ioa of 1tate into eight cireuita. 
TITLE IV. 
OF THE CIRCUIT COURTS, SITTINGS, .AND COURTS OF OYER AND
TERMINER. 
2. Circaltl nbject to altentioa by legialature. 
a. Powen of circuit jadgea.
4. Foar circmta each year to be held in New-York, and two ia all other eolllltM9- 
I. Thau ud rJaca ofbolcling them, wlaen ud how often appc,Wed. 
6. Placea at whicla collrtl 11aall be appoiatecl to be held. 
7. Li.ta of appointment. to be tnm1mitted to county clerk,. 
8. Aacl to state printer; llow to be pabliahed. 
SEC. 1. 
SEC. 0. Courts to be held during pleasure of the judge. 
SEC. 1. Clrnita in New-York maybe adjourned. 
!!!!!!!!! 
SEC. 1. Dav oC circuit jadp, to attend circaits, Ice. 
IS. Powers and dutie. of circuit courta.
SEC. 4. Each jutice of 111preme eo11rt, and each circuit judge, lbay bald eircuita ud prt· 
aide in coarts of o:,er and tenniner.
SEC. 5. Notice ol nancy in office of circoit judge, to be giYen.
SEC. 6. Circ11it jlldp to gin notice ofhi1 inability to bold courta.
17 & I& WJao to hold circuit.a, ~- in such cue,; upenae, how paid. 
SEC. 9. Cireuita & oyu and terminer, how adjourned, If judge d'"'9 not appear on flnt daJ ·
SEC. 0. Jfjudp attend, OD 1ec0Dd clay, courts to be opened. 
la IL 1( .......... lll&Mteu a IIIIOltCI *1', cOllltl to be lllljouned,....
JI. Penou recopized, t\c. to appear at next court after tlaat which failed, 
IS. Ploceedinga if county judges do not attend to form oyer ancl terminer.
ll !few -,pointaea.t o( oinmt to i.e IDade, wllen famare Im oeemnd. 
SEC. 5. N~ f1i ~ to be pablithed in atate P'l*· 
SEC. 8. Slttinp for New-York, how appointed and held.
•· A 1ella to hrteneM l,efere 1ftting of aueh ooart; netiee, &e. 
SEC. 8. WlleD aad by wb9a eoarta. of 079r and tenaiaer to be held.
SEC. 9. Powen of court. of oyer and terminer. 
a To tt'y iDdictllltnb foand at ge11enl ae1slon1.
SEC. 1. ,JrlaJ M9d oertaia illcliotaentl to ........ w be tried, 
a Commiasions of oyer and terminer, by gonrnor and senate, 
IS. Time, &e. of holding court to be specified; commiuibbl to be recorded. 
SEC. 4. CclpJ of comaiuiou to ~ aent to di,trict lttorney. . 
SEC. 5. Special coarts of oyer and terminer may be appointed by circuit j'lldp. 
a Appelabaent to be MDt to dutrict attemey. 
D. ~ wllen to " *1&ed by diftrict attoru_ey. 
8S. Contents of precept. 
a Sherit"to pablilh proclamation; expense thereof, 
SEC. 0. l5eala of' colll'tl of o;rer and terminer.
41 & A Proce11 of courtl, how to be tested . 
.. Wdl8 may 1te dincted into- any coaty. 
~ a.rt. of ooaaties to be cledu ol circoiu, &c. uoe,t ia New-York. 
SEC. 5. Clerk of aupreme court in New· York, to be clerk of circuits. &e. thore. 
SEC. 1. This state shall continue to be divided into eight circuits, cor-
~ with the eight senate districts, in extent of territory and in 
tJ.e numben by which the said circuits shall respectively be known
and deaigoated. H 
, !. The said circ~its are subject to alteeation by the legislature, 
&om time to time, as the public good may require. 
86 
§ ~ Each ol the ·circuit judges poBSellel the power• of a justice of
llle npreDlj! court at cbamben ; and in the trial of iuuea joined in 
the supreme court, and in courts of oyer and terminer and jail deli- 
very." 
SEC. 4. There shall be held in each year, at least two circuit courts
IIMl courta of oyer and terminer and jail delivery, in each of the coun­ 
ties of tllia state, separately organized, and in the city and county of 
New-York, there shall be held at least four such courts in each year.•' 
SEC. 5. Each circuit judge, shall, within~ month prior to the _fint
day of January, in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty- 
Oll,,handappoint the times and places of holding the several circuit 
ClOUl'tl and courts of oyer and terminer, within his circuit, for the pe- 
riod of two years ; which courts, when so fixed, shall remain unal-
tered for two years ; and be shall, in like manner, within ooe month 
Wn the expiration of the said two years, appoint the said courts for 
the ensuuag two years ; and so on, for every two ncceeding years 
thereafter. •s 
SEC. 6. The places so to be appointed for the holding of the said 
courts, when not specially designated by law, shall always be the
oourt-bouses, or such ~ther places as now are, or hereafter shall be 
provided by law for holding the county courts of the respective coun­
ties ; except that in the cities of New-York and .Albany, the circuit 
judges of the respective circuits, may appoint any other place within
the said cities ; and in the county of Oneida, one of the circuit courts
shall be held annually at the academy in Utica, and the other alter·
nately at the court-houses in Rome and Whitestown. In cue there 
be no such court-house, or other place provided for by law, within any 
county, the circuit judge of the circuit, shall appoint some suitable
place for that purpose. 
89 
SEC. 7. Every circuit judge shall transmit to the clerk of each county,
within his circuit, a copy of every appointment of circuits made by 
him, immediately upon making the same ; which shall be filed and 
preserved by such clerk. 
69 
SEC. 8. Every circuit judge shall transmit to the state printer, a copy
of every appointment of circuits made by him. The first appointment 
made pursuant to the foregoing provisions, shall be published in the 
state paper, at least once in each week, for three weeks before the
holding of any circuit in pursuance thereof. Every subsequent ap­
pointment of circuits, shall be published in the state paper at least
once in each week, for four weeks, and the last publication shall be 
one month before the holding of any circuit in pursuance thereof. 
SEC. 9. The state printer shall arrange such appointments under one
head, and publish in the state paper an abstract thereof, designating 
the name of each county, and the times appointed for holding the
courts therein. The expense of such publication shall be paid out of
the treasury of this state. 
89 
SEC. 0. The circuit courts shall be held for so many days, as the
judge holding the same may deem necessary. 1o 
SEC. 1. Any circuit court held in and for the city and county of New·
York, may be continued by adjournment, to such time as the court 
shall, by a rule to be entered in its minutes, direct ; and such adjourn­ 
ed circuit may be held and continued by further adjournment, u often
u the circuit judge of the first circuit shall think fit ; and causes may 
be noticed for trial, and tried thereat, in like manner as at a stated
circuit.70 
, H. It shall be the duty of the several circuit judges, to attend
the several times and places, at which circuit courts and courts of 
oyer and terminer shall have been appointed to be held in their re- 
spective circuits, to hold the said circuit courts, and to preside in the 
said courts of oyer and terminer. 
~ lS. The several circuit courts shall have power, and it shall be 
their duty J 
19 
1. To try all such issues, and to take all such inquests, by default
or otherwise, as are to be tried or taken in the said circuit courts re- 
spectively : 
!l. To record all non-suits and defaults before them : and, 
a. To return all proceedings had before them, into the supreme 
court, or into the court directing the same. '11 
SEC. 4. Each justice of the supreme court, and each of the circuit 
. ~ sh II h h Id . • d id .
Juuges, a ave power to o any circuit court, an to pres1 e in 
any court of oyer and terminer, in this state, either for the whole
time for which such court shall continue, or for any part of that 
tiJDe.12 
SEC. 5. In case the office of either of the circuit judges shall become 
vacant, after the appointment of the said courts for his circuit, the
clerk of each county for which circuits shall have been appointed, 
shall immediately give notice of such vacancy to the chief justice of 
the supreme court. '12 
SEC. 6. In case any circuit judge, from sickness or from any other 
caase, shall be incapable of holding any of the said courts, as above 
directed, it shall be his duty immediately to give notice thereof to the 
chief justice of the supreme court. 
SEC. 7. Upon receiving either of such notices, the chief justice and 
the
th
• • f h t h 11 d • • • 
o er Justices o t e supreme cour , s a esignate some circuit
judge to bold the courts so appointed, or some of them. And if no 
circuit judge can hold such courts, without interfering with the courts
previously appointed by him, it shall be the duty of one of the justices 
of the supreme court to hold the same. · 
SEC. 8. The expenses of any justice of the supreme court -or circuit 
judge, in attending, holding and returning from any such courts, shall 
be paid from the treasury, on being audited and certified by the comp-
troller. 
SEC. 9. If some one of the circuit judges, or of the justices of the
1Upreme court, shall not come to any place, where the said courts are 
appointed to be held, before four o'clock in the afternoon of the day so 
appointed, the sheriff or clerk of the county, shall open the said courts, 
and forthwith adjourn the same until nine o'clock in the forenoon of 
the next day. "1 
I !O. If one of the circuit judges or of the justices of the supreme
court, shall attend at such place, at any time before eight o'clock in 
the afternoon of such second day, the said courts shall be opened and
shall proceed in the business before them. 
71 
SEC. 1. If no such judge or justice shall attend at the said last men·= 
tioned hour, the sheriff or clerk, shall adjourn the said courts without 
day .... 
, !I. All persons bound by recognizance or otbenrile, to 'P{*I' 
at either of the said courts, which shall have failed, &hall be bound to 
appear at the next circuit court or court of oyer and terminer to be 
• 
held m such county, as the case may be. 
SEC. 8. If the circuit judge or other officer authorised to preaide in 
the court of oyer and t.erminer, shall attend, but if there be not prellllt
a sufficient number of county judges, or other officen authorised to sit 
with him in the said court, to form such court, the circuit judge or 
other presiding officer, shall adjourn the court from day to day, until a 
sufficient number appear; or he may, after the first adjournment, ad­ 
journ such court without day. 
SEC. 4. Whenever the circuit court appointed for any county, shall
fail, it shall be the duty of the chief justice of the supreme court, or if 
he be absent, or hi, office be vacant, the senior judge thereof, to ap­ 
point a time and place for holding the said court, in such county, which 
time shall be at a day as early as may be practicable, and to usignooe 
of the justices of that court, or one of the circuit judges, to hold the
said court. 
SEC. 5. The justice ordering such court, shall, without delay,~­
notice of the appointment of such court, to be published in the mta 
paper ; the expense of which publication shall be paid out of the 
treasury, as in other cases. 
SEC. 6. Either of the justices of the supreme court may, io the May 
term thereof, or during any vacation of that court, on such day• as WD 
court shall by an order appoint for that pur~ try all issues which 
could be tried in the circuit court, for the city and county of New· 
York, and exercise all the powers of such court; and such sittiogl
may be held for as many days as the judge holding the same shall think 
necessary.'' 
SEC. 7. At least one term of the supreme court shall intervene be­ 
tween the appointment of such sittings, and the time when the same 
are to be held ; and the clerk of the supreme court shall cause a copy 
of every order appointing such sittings, to be published once a week, 
for four weeks in succession, in two of the newspapers printed in the 
city of New-York; the expense of which publication, shall be defray· 
ed by the city and county of New-York.'f'
SEC. 8. Courts of oyer and terminer, may be held at the time aod 
..l hi h • . h be • ted be h Id 
ptace at w re any circuit court may ave en appom to e , 
as fo1fows: 
In the city and county of New-York, by one or more of thejut-
tices of the supreme court, or of the circuit judges, or by the first judge 
of die court of common pleas of the said city and county, together 
with the mayor, recorder and aldermen of that city, or with any two 
of them: 
p. -41 
t. In all the other counties of this state, by a justice of the supreme
court, or a circuit judge, together with at least two of the- judges of~ 
the county courts of the county : 
,. In the counties of Albany, Columbia and Rensselaer, the mayor,
recorder and aldermen of the respective cities therein, or any two of:~c:9;::_c,­ 
them, may sit and act in the court of oyer and terminer, in their re-
apective counties, with or Instead of the county judges : 
4. In the county of Schenectady, the mayor and aldermen of the
city of Schenectady, or any two of them, '1'.lllY sit and act in the court
of oyer and terminer, with or instead of the county judges.76 
SEC. 9. Each court of oyer and terminer shall have power, 
• • 
1. To inquire, by the oath of good end lawful men of the same
county, of all crimes and misdemeanors, committed or triable in such
county: 
t. To hear and determine all such crimes and misdemeanors : and, 
3. To deliver the jails of the said county, or city and county, ac­
cording to law, of all prisoners therein. 
78 
I SO. Every such court of oyer and terminer and jail delivery,
shall also have power to try all indictments found in the court of ge- 
neral sessions of the peace of the same county, or city and county, 
which shall have been sent by order of such court of general seuions
to, and received by the said court of oyer and terminer, or which shall
hue been removed into the said court of oyer and terminer: and
which, in the opinion of the said court of oyer and terminer, may be
proper to be tried therein. 'J'7 
I SI. The several courts of oyer and terminer and jail delivery, 
may, by order entered in their minutes, send all indictments found at=:~'° 
any such court, for offences triable at the court of general sessions of 
the same county, to such court of general sessions, to be proceeded on,
UMl tried therein. 
78 
SEC. 2. The governor, by and with the consent of the senate, may 
illoe co111missions of oyer and terminer and jail delivery, 88 often u
occuion shall require; but some one of the justices of the supreme 
eourt, or of the circuit judges, shall always be named in the said co~
blision, as one of the commissioners; and no proceedings shall be had 
upon any such commission, without the presence of such justice or
jldge.fl 
SEC. 3. Every such commission ·shall specify the time and place at 
which the court is to be held, in pursuance thereof; and shall be re- 
corded in Ii- manner 88 the commissions of civil officen, in the office 
of the aecretary of state. 
SEC. 4. The secretary of state shall, without delay, transmit to the
district attorney of the county for which such commission shall have 
been issued a copy thereof. 
, 
SEC. 5. Whenever it shall become nece~ry, by reason o( the nwn-
ber of the prisoners confined in the jail of any county, or by reason of 
the importance of the offences charged upon such prisoners, to appoint
a special court of oyer and terminer and jail delivery, the circuit judge
of the circuit within which such county shall be situated, shall have
power, by warrant under his hand and seal, to appoint a court of oyer
and terminer and jail delivery, for such county, to be held therein, at
some place provided by law, at such time as he may designate in such
warrant, not less than thirty days from the date thereof. 
SEC. 6. The circuit judge issuing such warrant, shall forthwith trans.
mit the same to the district attorney of the county. 
80 
SEC. 7. The district attorney of every county, at least twenty days
before the time appointed for the holding of such or any other court 
of oyer and terminer and jail delivery, in his county, shall issue a
precept to be tested and sealed, in the same manner as process issued
out of the courts of oyer and terminer and jail delivery, and to be di·
rected to the sheriff of his county. 
81 
SEC. 8. Every such precept shall mention the time and place at
which such court is to be held, and shall command the said sheriff, 
1. To summon the several perROns who shall have been drawn in
his county, pursuant to law, to serve as grand and petit jurors at the
said court, to appear thereat : 
2~ To bring before the said court, aU prisoners then being in the jail
of such county, together with all process and proceedings any way
concerning them in the hands of such sheriff: 
a. To make proclamation in the manner prescribed by law, notify­
ing all persons bound to appear at the said court, by recognizance, or
otherwise, to appear thereat; and requiring all justices of the peace, 
coroners, and other officers who have taken any recognizance for the
appearance of any person at such court, or who have taken any inqui·
sition, or the examination of any prisoner or witness, to return such
recognizances, inquisitions and examinations, to the said court, at the
opening thereof, on the first day of ita sitting. 
81 
SEC. 9. The sheriff to whom any such precept shall be directed and
delivered, immediately on the receipt thereof, shall cause a proclama· 
tion in conformity thereto, signed by him, to be published once in
each week, until the sitting of the court, in one or more of the news­
papers printed in the said county. The expense of such publication 
shall be a county charge. 
SEC. 0. The seals heretofore devised or adopted by the several courts
ofoyerandterminer andjail delivery, shall continue to De the seals of~ 
the said courts respectively; and where none have been devised, the
court shall have power to make and devise such seal. 
SEC. 1. All writs and process issuing out of, and returnable in, the!::...°'
said courts of oyer and terminer and jail delivery, shall be tested in
the name of the circuit judge of the circuit; or in case of a vacancy in
his office, in the name of the chief justice of the supreme court. 
SEC. 2. All such proceas, if issued when the said court of oyer and
terminer and jail delivery is not in session, may be tested on any day
in the lut preceding term of the said court ; if issued during the sit· 
ting of the court, it shall be tested on the day of its being issued. 
SEC. 8. The courts of oyer and terminer and jail delivery, may di·~· 
rect their writs into any of the counties of the state, as occasion may 
require.112 
~ «. The clerks of the several counties, (the city and county of~-­
Yew- York excepted,) shall, by virtue of their offices, be clerb of the
circuit courts, and courts of oyer and terminer and jail delivery, with- 
in their respective counties. 
TITLE V. 
or THE COURTS OF COMMON PLEAS AND GENERAL SESSIONS 01'
THE PEACE, IN THE SEVERAL COUNTIES OF THIS STATE. 
he. L Pcnren ad juisdiction oC coutl or common pleu. 
l By whom to be held. 
a. Coarta of general tea1ion1, by whom to be held. 
'- Wliea jmtica oltlae peace may be u1ociated to hold coart.
I. Powen ol COIU'tl ol general 1euiom enamerated. 
&. To ND&l iadic:tment, not triable by them, to oyer and termtw. 
J. Aacl Uldietment, D0t tried; and to try IUCh U are Hilt luk. 
8. Jr jwlps do not attend 8nt day, coart, how adjoarned.
9. Proc:eecliDp if they do D0t attud OD NCODd day. 
SEC. 0. Jwigea being inhabitant, or town interuted in appeah, not to ait, b. 
U. Tate and return ol proeeu of common p1eu ad geaenl H1dC1111.
12, Be.a. of COIDIIIOII pleu. . 
II. la wlloN name writ, in common pleu to be tested; pl'OCel1 ol geeenJ. .... 1 .. t.o
be IIDder Mab o( jwlpi. 
I'- Club of coantiea to be clerk.I ol commma pleu and .... 1ou, esoept la Kew·Yodl.
SEC. 1. Fora of caption of records in common pleu,
1l Fora of reeorda, after the caption. 
SEC. 7. hrm or OODtialaDCes, after ia1ae joined.
18, 1' .... of jadgea and authority or coart, Dot to be iuerted. 
It. I>arm. ol tenDI ol ccmmon pleu ucl general 1e11iou, b .
.. ,.... and pi.ca ol boJdiDg COIIUDOll ,... ad geeen1 ....... fa tile ...... 
coatie9 o( tlm .... 
81 
SEC. 5. The clerk of thesupreme court residing in the city of New· 
York, shall be clerk of the sittings and circuit courts held in and for 
the city and county of New-York. 
84 
n. Ia cua not odaenri.e clincted, coarta to be lwd • coart-houa. 
82 
82 
SEC. 8. Commota ,- ia New-York, by whom to be beW. 
SEC. 4. Clerk of COWlty to be clerk of COIDIDOD pleu, and to gin bond.
SEC. 5. When and how bond to be eanceUecl. 
alJ. Ttl"Dll efCOIIUDOII plleu of New-York. 
27, Geaenl 1euion1 in New-York, by whom to be held.
SEC. 8. Special duty ohecorderto hold general ae11iom. 
•· Powen of paeral ae11iom. 
IO. Duty of aldermen to attend general 1ea1iona.
SI. Court, when and how long to be held. 
IS. Common pl .. in Albany, by wlaom may be held. 
IS. Three judges to be present, to perform certain acts.
s.&. Time• of holcliag common pleas and genenl 1e11iou in Albay. 
! I. There shall continue to be a court of common pleas in each
county of this state, which shall possess the powers and exercise the
jurisdiction, which belonged to the courts of common pleas of the se-
veral counties in the colony of New- York, with the additions, limita-
tion, and exceptions, created and imposed by the constitutioD and 
Ian of this at.ate, and every such court shall have power, 
1. To hear, try and determine, according to law, all local actions,
arising within tbe county for which such court shall be held ; aod all
transitory actions, although the same may not have arisen within auch 
county: 
2. To grant new trials: 
a. To hear and determine appeals from justices' courts, in the cues 
and in the manner prescribed by law :
,. To exercise the power and jurisdiction conferred on them by Jaw 
over the persons and estates of habitual drunkards : and,
s. To exercise such other powers and duties. as may be conferred 
and imposed by the laws of this state. 
86 
SEC. 2. The judges of the county courts of each of the counties in this
state, (the city and county of New-York excepted) or any three of
them, shall have power to hold the courts of common pleas, in their
respective counties. se 
~ S. Any three of the judges of the county courts of each of the
counties of this state, except the county of New- York, shall have
power to hold courts of general 1e11ions in their respective counties.86 
SEC. 4. When a sufficient number ofjudges of the county courtasball
not appear, to hold a court of general aessions, then one or more justi­
ces of the peace of the same county, shall be associated with suchjudge
or judges as shall attend ; but no such court shall be held without the 
presence of at least one judge, and it shall in no case consist of more 
than five perl()DS. 
86 
SEC. 5. Every court of general sessions of the peace shall have power, 
1. To inquire, by the oaths of good and lawful men of the county,
of all crimes and misdemeanors committed or triable in such county : 
1. To hear, determine and _punish, according to law, all crimes and
misdemeanors not punishable with death, or imprisonment in the state 
prison for life : 
a. To hear and determine all appeals from any order of justices of 
the peace, under the laws respecting the support of bastards : 
4. To examine into the circumstances of persons committed to pri- 
6'0!1 as parents of bastards, and to discharge them, in the cases provided 
by law: 
s. To hear and determine the complaints which shall be made to
such court, under the laws respecting masters, apprentices and ser­ 
vants: 
6. To review the convictions of disorderly persons actually impri­ 
soned, and to execute the po,vers conferred, and duties imposed by
law, in relation to such persons: 
7. To continue or discharge the recognizances and bonds of persons 
bound to keep the peac~, or to be of good behaviour, or both; and to
inquire into and determine the complaints on which the same were 
founded: 
s. To compel relatives of poor persons, and committees of the es­
tates of lunatics, to support such persons and lunatics, in the cases 
and in the manner prescribed by law : 
9. To exercise the powers conferred by law, in relation to the .es· 
tat.es of persons absconding and leaving their families chargeable to
the public: 
SEC. 0. To let to bail persons indicted in the said court for any crime
or misdemeanor triable therein, as provided by law : 
SEC. 1. To discharge persons who shall have remained in prison with·
out being indicted, or without being tried, in the cases prescribed by 
law: and, 
u. To execute such other powers and duties as may be conferred 
and imposed by the laws of this state. 
67 
SEC. 6. The several courts 'of general sessions, shall send all indict-
meo.ts for offences not triable therein, to the next court of oyer and 
terminer and jail delivery, to be held in their respective counties, 
there to be determined according to law.8? 
SEC. 1. The said courts may also, by an order to be entered in their 
minutes, send all indictments k>r offencea.triable before them, against
priaoners in jail, and others, which shall not have been heard or de­ 
itermined, to the next court of oyer and terminer and jail delivery, to
be held in their respective counties, to be there determined according
to law; and if any such indictment shall be remitted back, without 
trial, by the court of oyer and terminer and jail delivery, to the court 
from which it came, such court may proceed thereon. 87 
! 8.· If a lllfficient number of persons authorised to hold any of the 
aaid courts of common pleas or general sessions, shall not attend for 
that purpose, before five o'clock in the afternoon of the day on which 
such court is to be held, it shall be the duty of any judge of the eoun- 
ty courts, who shall attend, or if there be none present, of the sheriff
or clerk of the county, to adjourn the same court to the nextday.88 
SEC. 9. If a sufficient number to hold· such court, shall not attend be- 
fore five o'clock in the afternoon of the said adjourned day, it shall be 
the duty of such judge of the county courts, or if there be none present, 
of such sheriff or clerk, to adjourn the said court without day.88 
SEC. 0. In all cases of appeal to any court of general sessions of the 
peace, wherein any town in the county shall be interested, no judge or 
justice of the peace being an inhabitant of such town, shall sit in
court, upon the hearing of such appeal. 
89 
SEC. 1. Al I writs or process which shall issue out of either of the said
da 
courts of common pleas or general sessions, may be teated on any y 
of the term in which such court shall sit, and be made returnable on
any other day of the same term, or at the next term. 
90 
SEC. 2. The seals of the several courts of common pleas alreadyde­
vised, shall continue to be the seals of the courts of common pleas of 
the respective counties. 
91 
~ 1 S. All process issued out of the court of common pleas, shall be 
tested in the name of the first judge of the county courts of the respec­ 
tive counties ; if the office of first judge be vacant, in the name of any 
other judge of said court. Process issued out of the courts of general 
sessions, in cases not otherwise provided for by law, shall be under
the hands and seals of the several judges or justices present in court, 
at the time the same shall be granted. 
92
- 
SEC. 4. The clerks of the several counties, ( except the city and 
county of New-York,) shall be clerks of the courts of common pleas 
and general sessions of their respective counties. 
91 
SEC. 5. The caption of all records of judgments in the courts of com· 
mon pleas, shall be in the following form : "Pleas in the court of 
common pleas held at" [ the place at which the court shall be held] "in
and for the county of Westchester," [ or other county, as the case 
may be,.] "before the judges of the same court, on" [ such day as the
process against the defendant shall be returnable, and shall be return­ 
ed served.] 
94 
SEC. 6. In all records of judgments to be made up in the courts rl 
common pleas, it shall be sufficient, immediately after the caption 
thereof, to enter the declaration, without setting forth on the record,
the plaint or process against the r!efendant, or any memorandum or 
other matter. If judgment is not entered, or the defendant shall not 
plead, at the same term of which the declaration is filed, an impar­
lance shall be .entered to the term when judgment is entered, or tile
plea of the defendant shall come in, without entering any continu- 
ance from term to term. 
40,-§i 
94
· 
SEC. 7. When an issue shall be joined in the court of common pleas,
to be tried by a jury, if the same shall not be tried at-the next term~ 
-A the • • • th {. th h II b • d b b • f 
aner JOlmng ereor, e causes a e continue ya ne entry,
setting forth that the process between the parties is continued before
the same court, until the term when such issue shall be tried, or some 
judgment of the court shall be given, or some order be made concern- 
ing such trial. 
96 
SEC. 8. It shall not be necessary in any part of such records, to insert 
the names of the judges, or any of them; nor shall it be neces.,ary to 
set forth the authority by which the court is held. 
96 
SEC. 9. Each term of the several courts of common pleas and gene-
ralsessions, may be continued and held from the commencement there· 
of, until and including the second Saturday after the commencement
of such term; but no process issuing out of the said courts, except 
subpamas and attachments, shall be tested or made returnable in the
second week of the said terms. 
96 
SEC. 0. The courts of common pleas and general· sessions in the se- 
I
• f thi h ] I b h Id • h • 
vera counties o rs state, s a e e m every year, at t e times 
d
I 
I". II • · 
an p aces ro owmg, to wit : 
1. In the county. of Suffolk, the court of common pleas, on the lastsu1ro1t.
Tuesday in May, and the first Tuesdays in October and January, and 
the court of general sessions, on the last Tuesday in May, and first 
Tuesday in October ; but no issue of fact shall be tried by a jury at 
any January term. 
2. In the county of Queen~, the court of common pleas, on the 
first Tuesday of June, the second Tuesday of November, and the third 
Tuesday of February, and the court of general sessions on the said 
first Tuesday of June, and second Tuesday of November ; but no is- 
sue of fact shall be tried by a jury at any February term. 
SEC. 3. In the county of Kings, the courts of common pleas and general
~ons, shall be held alternately at the court-house in Flatbush, and 
at the apprentices' library in the village of Brooklyn, on the third
Tuesdays of April, Ju1y, October, and January. 
4. In the county of Richmond, the court of common pleas, on the
second Tuesdays of April, September and December, and the court of 
general sessions, on the said second Tuesdays of April and Septem- 
ber_; but no issue of fact shall be tried by a jury in any December 
term. · 
5. In the county of Westchester, the court of common pleas, alter- 
nately at the court-house in Bedford, and ~tt the court-house in White-
Plains, on the fourth Mondays of May and September, and on the first 
Monday in December, and the court of general sessions, on the fourth 
Monday of May and September, at the place where the common pleas 
shall be then held ; but no issue of fact shall be tried by a jury in any 
December term, 
e. In the county of Putnam, the courts of common pleas and ge­ 
neral aessions, on the first Tuesday of February, and the second Tues­ 
day of September. 
1. In the county or Dutchess, the said courts shall be held on the 
first Mondays in February and June, and on the last Monday in Sep­ 
tember. 
8. · In the county of Rockland, the court of common pleas, on tbe 
first Tuesday of February, the third Tuesday of April, and the second 
Tuesday of November ; and the court of general sessions, on the said 
third Tuesday of April, and second Tuesday of November. 
9. In the county of Orange, the courts of common pleas and gene- 
ral seaions, to be- held alternately at the court-house in Goshen, and 
the academy in the village of Newburgh, on the second Monday in 
February, last Monday in May, and the first Mondays in September 
and December. 
1 o. In the county of Ulster, the court of common pleas, on the se- 
cond Mondays of January, April, June and September; and the court
of general sessions, on the second Mondays of January and Septem­
her ; but no jurors shall attend at the said April term of the court of
common pleas, and no grand jurors at the said September term of the 
general sessions, unless summoned by order of said courts respectively,
regularly entered on their minutes at the next preceding term. 
SEC. 1. In the county of Sullivan, the court of common pleas, on the
last Tuesday of January, and second Tuesdays of June and October;
and the general sessions, on the last Tuesday of January, and second
Tuesday of June. 
SEC. 2. In the county of Greene, the court of common pleas, on the
first Tuesday of January, the last Tuesday of May, and the first Mon·
day of September; and the court of general sessions, on the first Tues­ 
day of January, and first Monday of September. 
SEC. 8. In the county of Columbia, the courts of common pleas and ge­ 
neral sessions, shall be held on the first Monday of June, the eecond
Monday of September, and the third Monday of January. 
u. In the county of Rensselaer, the courts of common pleas and 
general sessions, on the last Mondays of January, May and Septem·
her. 
I&. In the county of Schoharie, the court of common pleas, on the
first Tuesdays of February, June and October; and the court of ge­ 
neral sessions, on the first Tuesdays of February and June. 
1 s. In the county of Schenectady, the courts of common pleas and 
general sessions, on the third Tue,sdays of January, May and Septem·
her. · 
SEC. 1. In the county of Saratoga, the court of common pleas, on the
second Tuesday of April, and the last Tuesdays of August and De· 
cember; and the court of general sessions, on the second Tuesday of 
April, and last Tuesday of August. · 
J s. In the county of Montgomery, the court of common pleas, on 
the second Mondays of March, June, September, and December ; and 
the court of general sessions, on the second Mondays of March and
September. · 
SEC. 9. In the county of Washington, the courts of common pleas and 
general sessions, alternate! y at the court-house in the town of Salem, 
and at the court-house in the town of Kingsbury, on the second Tues- 
day of March, the last Tuesdays of May and August, and the first 
Tuesday of December. 
to. In the county of Warren, the courts of common pleas and ge- 
neral sessions, on the third Tuesday of April, and first Tuesday of 
October. 
u. In the county of Essex, the court of common pleas, on the se-
~ Tuesdays of January and April, and thelast Tuesday of Sep­ 
tember; and the general sessions, on the second Tuesday of January, 
and last Tuesday of September. 
H. In the county of Clinton, the court of common pleas, on the 
first Tuesday of January, second Tuesday of May, and first Tuesday 
of October; and the general sessions, on the second Tuesday of May, 
and first Tuesday of October. 
SEC. 8. In the county of Franklin, the court of common pleas, and the 
court o( general sessions, on the last Tuesday of April, and on these- 
cond Tuesday of October. 
SEC. 4. In the county of St. Lawrence, the courts of common pleas 
and general sessions, on the first Tuesday of June, the second Tues- 
day of October, and the last Tuesday of January; but no grand jury 
shall be summoned at the June term. 
SEC. 5. In the county of Herkimer, the courts of common pleas and ge- 
neral sessions, on the first Mondays of February, June and October. 
SEC. 6. In the county of Oneida, the courts of common pleas and ge-
neral sessions, at the court-house in the town of Whitestown, on the 
second Mondays of March and September ; and at the court-house in 
the town of Rome, on the second Mondays of June and December. 
SEC. 1. In the county of Madison, the courts of common pleas and ge-
neral sessions, on the first Tuesday of February, the third Tuesday of 
June, and the first Tuesday of October. 
SEC. 8. In the county of Oswego, the courts of common pleas and ge-
neral sessions, shall be held alternately in the eastern and western jury 
diatricts, on the first Tuesdays of February and June, and the third
Tuesday of September. 
SEC. 1. In the county of Lewis, the courts of common pleas and gene- 
ral sessions, on the first Tuesday of January, and the third Tuesdays
of April and September. 
so. In the county of Jefferson, the courts of common pleas and ge-
neral sessions, on the last Tuesday of February, the second Tuesday
of June, and the first Tuesdays of September and December ; but no 
grand jury shall be summoned at the said December and June terms. 
SEC. 1. In the county of Delaware, the courts of common pleas and
general sessions, on the first Mondays of February, June and October; 
but no grand jury shall be summoned to attend the said February and
June terms. 
SEC. 2. In the county of Otsego, the courts of common pleas and ge-
neral sessions, on the first Tuesday of February, the third Tuesday of
June, and the second Tuesday of October. 
SEC. 8. In the county of Chenango, the courts of common pleas and 
general sessions, on the second Tuesdays of February, June and Oc­
tober; but no grand jurors shall be summoned at the said February 
and June terms, unless specially directed by the said courts. 
SEC. 4. In the county of Broome, the courts of common pleas and ge· 
neral sessions on the last Tuesdays of August and November, and a
term of the courts of common pleas on the second Tuesday of March. 
SEC. 6. In the county of Cortland, on the third Tuesday of April, and 
on the second Tuesdays of September and December; but no grand 
jury shall be summoned at the December term, without the order of
the first or senior judge. 
SEC. 6. In the county of Tompkins, the courts of common pleas and 
general sessions on the fourth Tuesdays of January, May and Sep­
tember. 
SEC. 7. In the county of Tioga the courts of common pleas and general
sessions, -alternately at the court-house in the village of Newtown,
and at the court-house in the village of Owego, on the first Tuesdays
of January, May and September. 
38 •. In the county of Onondaga, the courts of common pleas and 
general sessions, on the fourth Mondays of May, September and Ja­
nuary. 
SEC. 9. In the county of Cayuga, the courts of common pleas and ge- 
neral sessions; on the third Mondays of January, May and September. 
,o. In the county of Seneca, the courts of common pleas and gene- 
ral sessions alternately at the court-house in the town of Ovid, and at
the court-house in the town of Junius, 011 the second Tuesday of May, 
and on the first Tuesdays of October and February. 
SEC. 1. In the county of Ontario, the courts of common pleas and ge- 
neral sessions, on the third Tuesdays of February, May, August and
November. 
u. In the county of Wayne, the courts of common pleas and ge· 
neral sessions, on the fourth Tuesdays of January, May and Septem·
her. 
o. In the county of Yates, the courts of common pleas and general 
sessions, on the second Tuesday of January, the first Tuesday of June,....,.....,,... 
and the lut Tuesday o( September. 
. 
SEC. 4. In the county of Steuben, the courts of common pleas and ge- 
neral sessions, on the third Tuesdays of June and October, and the first
Tuesday of February. 
o. In the county of Livingston, the courts of common pleas and
general sessions, on the last Mondays of January, May and September. 
u. In the county of Monroe, the courts of common pleas and gen&- 
raJ aessions, on the fourth Monday of March, the second Monday of 
June, and the first Mondays of October and December. 
SEC. 1. In the county of Genesee, the.courts of common pleas and ge- 
neral sessions, on the first Tuesday of February, and second Tuesdays 
oC June and October. 
SEC. 8. In the county of Orleans, the courts of common pleas and ge- 
oerahessions, on the third Mondays of January, June and September. 
SEC. 9. In the county of Niagara, the courts of common pleas and ge-
neral sessions, on the first Tuesdays of January, May and September. 
SEC. 0. In the county of Erie, the court of common pleas, on the first 
Mondays of.March and June, the fourth Monday of August, and the 
first Monday of December; and the general sessions, on the first Mon- 
day of March, and the fourth Monday of August. 
SEC. 1. In the county of Allegany,. the courts of common pleas and ge- 
neral sessions, on the second Tuesday in February, and fourth Tuesday 
in June and October. 
u. In the county of Cattaraugus, the courts of common pleas and
general sessions, on the last Tuesday of January, third Tuesday of 
June, and first Tuesday of October. 
SEC. 8. In the county of Chautauque, the courts of common pleas and
general sessions, on the second Tuesdays of October and February, 
and the fourth Tuesday of-June.t?
SEC. 1. In all cases not specially provided for in the preceding sec- 
, 
hon, the courts of common pleas and general sessions, shall be held at 
the court-houses in the several counties. '8 
~ !!. The first judge of the county courts of the city and county of 
N
Y 
, d . . 
ew- ork, and the mayor, recorder and al ermen of the said city, 
lhall be judges of the court of common pleas of the said city and 
county.98 
I !S. The said court of common pleas, may also be held by the
first judge, the mayor, or recorder, either alone, or with one or more 
o~ the other judges; but it shall be the special duty of the first judge 
to hold the said court. 
98
· 
SEC. 4. The clerk of the city· and county of New· York, shall, by vir-
tue of his office, be clerk of the court of common pleas for the said city 
and county; and every person hereafter elected to that office, sball,
before he enters on the duties thereof, execute a bond to the people of 
this state, in the penalty of fifteen thousand dollars, with two sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the said first judge, conditioned that such 
clerk shall well and faithfully, in all things, apply, appropriate and 
pay over all such sums of money as he may from time to time receive, 
in virtue of his said office, during his continuance taerein; and that if
default be made therein, he and his sureties will jointly and severally
answer and pay to the parties who may be injured by such default, 
all damages they may sustain; which bond, when so executed and ap­ 
proved, shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the supreme court in 
the city of New-York.99 
SEC. 5. Whenever any such clerk shall go out of office, and shall
pay over to his successor all the monies then remaining in his hands, 
accompanied by such vouchers and statements in relation thereto, as 
shall be satisfactory to such successor, to be signified by his ~rtificate
under seal, it shall be the duty of the said first judge, to grant an or­ 
der requiring the clerk of the supreme court, upon the filing of such
certificate in his office, to give up the bond executed by the clerk 
so going out of office, and his sureties, to the parties who executed
the same, to be cancelled. And it shall be the duty of the clerk of 
the supreme court to obey such order.'9 
SEC. 6. The court of common pleas for the city and county of New· 
York, shall be held on the third Monday of every month. The seve-
ral terms shall be called after the different months of the year, in which 
they are respectively held. Writs of inquiry issuing out of the said
court, may be tested and made returnable the second week of the said
te"'/oo. , 
SEC. 7. The first judge of . the county cou'.rts of the city and ~u~ty 
of~ew-York, and the mayor, recorder and aldermen of the said city, 
or any three of them, of whom the said first judge, mayor or recorder
shall always be one, shall have power to hold courts of general ses­ 
sions in and for the said city and county of N ew-Y ork.100 
SEC. 8. It shall be the special duty of the recorder of the city of
New-York, to hold the said court of general sessions.P? ' 
SEC. 9. The said court of general sessions, shall possess the like 
powers as the courts of general sessions for the other counties in IS 
state, and in addition thereto, shall have power, when the said first 
judge shall preside, to hear, try and determine any indictment for any
crime punishable by imprisonment for life. The court shall also have
the same power, when the mayor or recorder presiding shall be of the 
degree of counsellor in the sµpreme court of this state, of at least three
years' standing. 
100 
th' 
I SO. It mall be the duty of two of the aldermen of the city o( 
New-York, to attend as judges of the said court, when notified or re- 
quired 1or that purpose, by the mayor or recorder ; and the common 
council may provide a suitable compensation for their attendance. tot 
SEC. 1. The said court of general sessions shall commence and be 
held on the fint Monday in every month, and may continue and be 
held every day, from the commencement thereof, until and including 
Saturday, in the third week thereafter. tot 
SEC. 1. The court of common pleas for the county of Albany, may 
be held by the first judge of the county courts of the said county, ei- 
ther alone, or with one or more of the other judges; and it shall be the 
mpecial duty of the first judge to hold the said court. 
SEC. 3. But no district attorney of the said county shall be appoint·
ed or removed, nor shall any justice of the peace of said county be re- 
moved, unless the court, at the time of such appointment or removal, 
shall consist of at least three judges of the county courts.
SEC. 4. The courts of common pleas and general aessions for the 
COWlty of Albany, shall be held on the third Tuesday of March, and
the aecond Tuesdays of June, September and December; but no trial 
ahall be had in any criminal prosecution, during the first week of the
aid terms. 
OF MAYORS' COURTS IN CITIES. 
lae. 1, 2 & S. MaJOI"• coart or Albuy, by whom held; iu powen ucl tmat,
SEC. 8. Mayor'• coart of BadaoD, by whom held; iu powen ad tmm, 
SEC. 8. Clark of' tile ooart; bia daty ucl tbat or manbal, ~o.
SEC. 1. Mayor's court or Troy, by whom held; iu powen a1,cl tenu. 
~ Clerk ol Reuelaer coanty to be clerk of ooart.
SEC. 4. Daty of manlial and oth.a oi&cen. 
SEC. 1. 8eala ol mayon' coarta.
JI. ..... ol dam lffenl terma. 
SEC. 7. AJdenlea may •it u jadge8; wbeD to hold coarta.
SEC. 8. Cc,uta bow 8djoarnecl, if Dot formed OD day appoint.eel.
SEC. 9. Proeeea Dot to be teated ad retamable ia aame term. 
•· P.....,... llow to be IDlde nt1U'Dable.
II A n. Fonn or record• ol jadgmenta. 
I I. The mayor, recorder and aldermen of the city of Albany, or 
tbe mayor and recorder jointly, or either of them singly, with or with-
oat the preeence of any of the aldermen, shall have power to hold 
court of common pleas, to be called " The mayor1s court ol the city
of Albany." t 
I !. The Mid court shall have power to hear, try and determine, 
ICCOrding to law, all local actions arising within the city of Albany, 
Ind alao all transitory actions, although the same may not have arisen 
tberem.t 
TITLE VI. 
i 8~ The said court shall be held on the first Tuesday of every 
month, and may be continued, until and including the following Tlau~ 
day.' 
4. The mayor, recorder and aldermen of the city of Hudson, or
ith 
the mayor and recorder jointly or either of them singly, with or w1 - 
out the presence of any of the aldermen, shall have power to hold a
court of common pleas, to be called " The mayor's court of the city 
of Hudson."!
SEC. 5. The mayor's court of the city of Hudson, shall be held on the 
last Tuesday of every month, and the terms thereof may continue to
be held two days inclusive." 
SEC. 6. The mayor's court of the city of Hudson shall have power to
hear, try and determine, according to law, all actions, real, personal
and mixed, arising within the said city, and not elsewhere. 
SEC. 7. The clerk of the city of Hudson, shall be clerk of the said
court; and it shall be the duty of the said clerk, and of the marshal, 
constables, jailers, and all other subordinate officers in and for the
said city, to attend the said court as often as shall be requisite, and to 
obey and perform all the duties of their respective offices, as well when
required by the said mayor's court, or any judge thereof, as other­ 
wise. 4 
SEC. 8. The said marshal, and other ministerial officers of the said
city, shall execute and return all the writs and process of the said
court, to them respectively directed, in the same manner as the sher­ 
iff and other officers of any court of record in this state. 
4 
SEC. 9. The mayor, recorder and aldermen of the city of Troy, or the
mayor and recorder jointly or either of them singly, with or without
the presence of any of the aldermen, shall have power to hold a court
of common pleas, to be called " The mayor's court of the city of 
Troy.m
SEC. 0. The said court shall have power to hear, try and determine, 
according to law, all local actions arising within the city of Troy,
and also all transitory actions, although the same may not have arisen 
therein.!
SEC. 1. The said court shall be held on the first · Tuesday of every 
month, at the court-house of the county of Rensselaer, in the said
city, and may continue to be held for two days inclusive." 
SEC. 2. The clerk of the county of Rensselaer, shall, by virtue of his
office, be clerk of the said court ; and the records and proceedings of
the said court shall be filed and kept in the office of the clerk of the 
said county.6 
1 
&: of fiO'l, 4, 
J 1§. It shall be the duty of the marshal, constables, jailers, and 
all other subordinate officers in and.Jor the said city of Troy, to attend
the said court as often as shall be requisite, and to obey and perform 
, • 
all the duties of their respective offices, as well when required by the 
said mayor's court, or any judge thereof, as otherwise." 
SEC. 4. The said marshal and other ministerial officers of the said 
city, shall execute and return all the writs and process of the said
court, to them respectively directed, in the same manner as the sher· 
iff and other officers of any court of record in this state." 
SEC. 5. The seals of the several mayors' courts of the cities of Alba- 
ny, Hudson and Troy, already devised and made, shall continue to be
the seals of the said courts respectively. 
SEC. 6. The several terms of the said courts shall respectively be
called after the months in which they are held. 
SEC. 7. Any alderman of the city of Albany, Hudson or Troy, may, 
. · · d of h ' f h' · nd ' 
lD any case, sit as a JU gc t e mayor s court o is city; a m case 
of the sickness or absence of the mayor and recorder of either of the 
above cities, or of their offices being vacant, it shall be lawful for any 
three aldermen of such city to hold the mayor's court thereof. 
SEC. 8. In case any of the said courts shall not be formed and held, 
at the time the same shall be required by law, or at the time to which 
it shall have been adjourned, it shall be lawful for any judge, or for 
the clerk thereof, to adjourn the same from day to day, until a court 
shall be formed, or until the next term. 
8 
SEC. 9. No process in any mayor's court shall be tested and made
returnable during the same term ; and no process, issuing out of any 
of the mayor's courts, and delivered to the sheriff, or other proper offi- 
cer, for service, at any time during term, shall be served, unless the
aame be made returnable at the term next thereafter. 
8 
SEC. 0. All writs and process, issuing out of, or returnable before the 
said several courts, respectively, and all writs to them directed, shall 
be tnadc returnable before, or be directed to, " the judges of the may- 
or's court in and for the city of Albany," or Hudson, or Troy, as the 
case may be. 
8 
SEC. 1. In the records and proceedings of the said courts, "judges 
of the said court," shall be inserted, instead of mayor, recorder and
aldermen of the said cities.8 
SEC. 2. It shall be unnecessary to insert the names of any mayor, re-
~r or alderman, in any records of judgments, or other proceedings, 
ID the said courts; and all records of judgments therein, shall be made 
up in the same form as the like records, in the courts of common pleas 
of the several counties of this state. 
8 
8 
'f1T1& 1.--0f aurrogatea' courts. 
T1TL& 2.-0f the courts of apecial aeaiom of the peace. 
'f1TLE 3.-0f special justices' courta in the aeveral cities of this atate. 
T1TL& 4.-0f courta held by justices of the peace. 
OF SURROGATES' COURTS. 
111:c. l. Jmudiction ohurropte1; to llaTe DOile bat thoae upreuly pna.: 
I. Comta to be alwaya opea. e1pecwly an eftl'Y Moaday. 
I. Prueat 1eall continued. 
4. W.. ..,, ...i. to be mlde; farm; deteription to be depoated. 
6. OD ,eal beiDg Iott, ~o. uw one to be IDlde; aotiee to be giTa. 
6. Special powen or n.rroptel,
7. Boob to be prorided by them; iDdesu to be made thereto. 
S. To ,....ene pepen, book1, Ac. and delinr them to Im IIU:INNDI', 
9. Sberift'. and other ofticen to obey proca,, ~c. or aunogatee. 
SEC. 0. Com to be awarded in di1cretion or ,arrogate.
SEC. 1. Saoceuor to complete buiDen pending.
SEC. 2. J'ariadictioa once acquired, to be escluiTe or other nnoptM. 
SEC. 1. Suroptee DOt to be coUD1el, b. in certain cue,. 
SEC. 1. Every surrogate who shall have duly qualified, by 
taking the oath and executing the bond required by law, shall hold a
court within the limits of the county for which he was appointed, and 
lball have power, 
1. To take the proof of wills of real and personal estate, in the ca- 
188 prescribed by law ; and also to take the proof of any will relating
to real estate situated within the county of such surrogate, when the
testator in such will, shall have died out of this state, not being an in·
habitant thereof, and not leaving any assets therein : · 
s, To grant letters testamentary and of administration :
a. To direct and control the conduct and settle the accounts of ex­ 
ecutors and administrators :
,. To enforce the payment of debts and legacies, and the clistribu· 
tion or the estates of inteltatee:
a. To order the 1ale and diapoeition of the real estates of deceued 
penona: 
OHAP. II. 
Of Courts of peculiar and special Jurisdiction. 
TITLE I. 
e. To adm~ister justice in all matters relating to the affairs ofde­ 
ceued penoba, according to the provi1ion1 of the statutes of this ltate: 
r. To appoint guardians for minora, to remove them, to direct and
eontrol their conduct, and to aettle their accounts, u prescribed by
law: 
R To cauN the admeuurement of dower to widows : 
Which powen shall be exercised in the cases, and in the manner,
prescribed by the statutes of this state, and in no other ; and no surro- 
gate shall, under pretext of incidental power or constructive authori- 
ty, exercise any jurisdiction whatever, not expressly given by some
statute of this state. 
J !. The surrogates' courts shall be at all times open, for the hear- 
ing of any matters within the jurisdiction thereof; and particularly on
Monday of each week, it shall be the duty of every surrogate to attend 
at bis office, to execute the powers and duties conferred on him. 
I S. The seals of the several sarrogates of the respective counties
of this state, of which a description in writing has heretofore been de- 
posited and recorded in the office of the secretary of this state, shall
continue to be the seals of the surrogates' courts of such counties re­ 
spectively .1 
SEC. 4. Whenever a surrogate shall be appointed for any county here-
after organized, or for any county for which no surrogate's seal shall 
have been provided, he shall, at his own expense, cause a seal to be
made for his office, with such device as he shall think proper, upon 
which shall be inscribed the name of the county for which such surro­
gate was appointed, and the words " Surrogate Seal." He shall de­ 
liver a description of such seal to the secretary of state, to be by him 
deposited and recorded in his office as part of the public records of this
state; and the same shall thereupon be the seal of the surrogate's court
of such county.1 
SEC. 5. WheneT"er the seal of the surrogate's court of any county shall
be so injured that it can not be conveniently used, the surrogate shall 
destroy the same; and whenever the surrogate's seal shall be lost or
destroyed, he shall, at his own expense, provide a new seal, similar
in all respects to such former seal, and shall give notice thereof in
writing to the secretary of state, who shall file such notice ; and there- 
upon such new seal shall become the seal of the surrogate's court of
such county. 
SEC. 6. Every surrogate shall have power, 
1. To issue subpoenas under his seal of office, to compel the attend- 
a.nee of any witness, or the production of any paper, material to any
inquiry pending in his court, the form of which shall be similar to that 
ued by courts of record in the like cases: 
s. To punish disobedience to any such subpcena, and to punish wit-
fi 
. : ~ . . th 
Delles for re US1Dg to testuy after appearmg, in e same manner an
to the same extent, as courts of record in similar cues, and by process
similar in form to that used by such courts: 
3. To issue citations to parties in all matters cognizable in his
court, and in the cases, prescribed by law, to compel the appearance 
of such parties : 
.c. To enforce all lawful orders, process and decrees of his court, 
by attachment against the persons of those who shall neglect or refuse 
to comply with such orders and decrees, or to execute such process; 
which attachments shall be in form similar to that used by the court 
of chancery in analogous cues: 
SEC. 5. To exemplify under his seal of office, all transcripts of records,
papers or proceedings, therein ; which shall be received in evidence 
in all courts, with the like effect as the exemplifications of the records, 
papers and proceedings of courts of record: 
6. To preserve order in his court during any judicial proceeding, 
by punishing contempts which amount to an actual interruption of bu- 
siness, or to an open and direct contempt of his authority or person, in
the same manner and to the same extent, as courts of record. 
SEC. 7. The surrogate of each county shall provide and keep the fol· 
lowing books : 
1. A book in which shall be fully and distinctly recorded all wills,
testaments and codicils proved before him, and the proof thereof; and 
in which he may also record any will relating to real estate situated
within his county, which shall have been duly proved before, and re­ 
corded by, any other surrogate; upon the production of an exemplified
copy of such record : 
2 • .A book in which shall be recorded in like manner, all letters tes· 
tamentary, and of general and special administration: 
3. A book in which shall be entered all accounts of executors and
administrators, settled before him : 
,. A book in which shall be entered all minutes of other proceed·
ings, by or before him, in relation to the estates of deceased persons,
with all orders and decrees made by him, and minutes of all citations, 
subpoenas, attachments and other process issued by him, in relation to
such estates; and the testimony taken by him in relation to the grant·
ing or revocation of letters testamentary, or of administration: 
6. A book in which shall be recorded the appointment of guardians
for infants, the revocation of any such appointment, and the accounts
rendered by such guardians, at full length : 
6. A book in which shall be entered all proceedings in relation to 
the ad measurement of dower, and all orders, ~eports and decrees there· 
upon:
To each of the said books there shall be attached an index of the 
subjects therein, with a reference to the pages where such subjects
may be found; which, together with such books, shall at all proper
times be open to the inspection of any person paying the fees allowed
by law for such examination. 
SEC. 8. Every surrogate shall carefully file and preserve all affidavits, 
petitions, reports, accounts, and a.11 other papers belonging to his court; 
and all such papers, and the books kept by him, shall belong and ap- 
pertain to his office, and be delivered to his successor. 
SEC. 9. Every sheriff, jailer, coroner, or other executive officer, to 
whom any citation, subpcena, attachment, or other process, issued by
a surrogate's court, may be directed or delivered for the purpose of 
being executed, shall execute the same, in the same manner as if is- 
sued by a court of record, and for any neglect or misfeasance therein, 
shall be subject to the same penalties, actions and proceedings, as if 
the same had occurred in relation to any process issued by courts of 
record.
SEC. 0. In all cases of contest before a surrogate's court, such court 
may award costs to the party in the judgment of the court entitled. 
thereto, to be paid either by the other party personally, or out of the 
estate, which shall be the subject of such controversy.
SEC. 1. Upon the office of any surrogate becoming vacant, his sue- 
cessor shall have power and authority to complete any business that 
may have been begun, or that was pending before such surrogate. 
SEC. 2. When jurisdiction shall have been acquired by any surro-
gate's court, in relation to any matter or proceeding, such jurisdiction, 
over the same matter and all its incidents, shall be exclusive of all 
other surrogates, except when otherwise provided by law. And when- 
ever any guardian shall have been appointed, or any ether proceeding 
shall 'have been commenced, in relation to any other matter, in any
surrogate's court, all other proceedings in relation to such guardian or 
other matter, shall be had and continued in the surrogate's court of 
the same county. 
SEC. 8. No surrogate shall be counsel, solicitor or attorney, for or 
' d · · di · • · "l
agamst any executor, a mmistrator, guar ian or mmor, many c1V1 
action, over whom or whose accounts he could have any jurisdiction
by law. 
OF THE COURTS OF SPECIAL SESSIONS OF THE PEACE. 
Ssc. I, By whom such court, may be held in New-York.
2. Sherili to esecute judgment,, &c.; how authenticated.
3. By whom sueh courts may be held in other counties. 
SEC. 1. Courts of special sessions of the peace may be held in and for 
the city and county of New-York, by any three judges of the comt of~
common pleas of the said city and county, of whom the first judge of 
said court, the mayor or recorder of said city, shall always he one, in 
---- 
TITLE II. 
the cases and for the purposes provided by law.3 
2. 
SEC. 2. The judgments and orders of the aaid court, aball be executed
by the sheriff of the said city and county, by virtue of a warrant under 
the hand and seal of the first judge, mayor or recorder, who presided; 
or of the persons who formed such court. 
or SPECIAL JUSTICES' COURTS IN THE SEVERAL CITIES OF THIS
STATE. 
lac. t. Marine court in Ne,,,...York.
2. .A.wtutjutice,' coarta in New-York. 
8. Jutice1' cowt in Albany.
4. Juticu' court in Hadaon. 
~. Powe.rs, jurisdiction and mode of proceeding of 1uch coartl. 
I. The justices of the marine court of the city of New-York, are
th ·--.l and • ed hold • th 'd • be kn 
au onsec requ1r to a court m e sat city, to own
by the name of "The Marine Court of the city of New-York. "8 
!. Each of the assistant justices of the city of New-York is au.
thorised and required to hold a court within the ward or wards for
which he may be appointed. 
OF COURTS HELD BY JUSTICES OF THE PEACE. 
AaT,• 1.-0fthe jurisdiction ofju1tices' courtl, 
AaT. 2.-0f the commencement of suits, and the service amt return of procelf, 
Aa.T. 3.-0f the appearance of parties. 
AR.T. 4.-0f pleadings and of set-offs. 
AR.T. 5.-0f ar.ljoumments. 
TITLE III. 
7 
8. The justices of the justices' court of the city of Albany, are
authorised and required to hold a court in the said city, to be known 
by the name of "The Justices' Court of the city of Albany. "8 
SEC. 4. The justices of the justices' court of the city of Hudson, are
authorised and required to hold a court in the said city, to be known 
by the name of "The Justices' Court of the city of Hudson.!"
SEC. 5. The several courts enumerated in this Title, shall respective 
ly possess the jurisdiction and powers, be held at the times and placet. 
and proceed in the manner, specially provided by law. 
TITLE JV. 
4 
SEC. 8. Courts of special sessions of the peace for the several countiea
of this state, other than the city and county of New-York, may be held 
in and for any county, by three justices of the peace of the same coun­ 
ty, or by two such justices and one judge of the county courts of such
county, in the cues, and for the purposes, provided by law. 
SEC. 4. 
6 
SEC. 1. 
Aa.T. 7.-0hhe trial o{ issues of fact, and the incidents thereto. 
AaT. 8.-0f judgments, and nliog transcripts thereof. 
ABT. 9.-0f executions; ofsales thereon, and of Imprisonment, 
All.T. 10-0f the removal of cau1e1 to the court o{ common pleu, by certiorari.
AaT. 11.-0{ appeals to the courts o{ common pleas. 
ABT. 12.-0f the fees o{ officer11, and of witnesses aad jurors, for services under this Title.
AllT. 13.--General provisions coacerniog justices' court,, and proceediop therein. 
J 
~TIOLE PIJlS'.t. 
0/ tAe Jurisdiction of Justice,' Courts. 
SEC. 1. J utieea authorised to bold court.; their general powen.
2. Cuu and proceedingl within their jariadiction, enumerated. 
S.. CoY8lmlt may be btoogb.t betbre them on certain bolad., 
4. Cua io which they are excluded Crom jlll'i1dictioo. 
6. Action. by and agaiut certain ofticen, and by executon and corporationi.
6. Jutioee becoming iJm.holden, not to hue jaritd.iction, &c.
7. Jutices being membe.n of leg.i,lature or county judga, not oblipd to ut.
SEC. 9. Within what tOWIUI actiou to be brought. 
SEC. 0. Aldermen or Albuy may try certain actiona. 
SEC. 1. Every justice of the peace elected in any town of this state,
or appointed for any city in which special courts are not established by 
law, is hereby authorised to hold a court for the trial of all actions in
the next section enumerated, and to hear, try and determine the same, 
according to law and equity; and for that purpose, where no special
provision is otherwise made by law, such court shall be vested with 
all the necessary powers which are_ possessed by courts of record in 
this state. JO 
SEC. 2. Every such justice shall have jurisdiction over, and cogni- 
J th r. 11 , · ti. d roeeedi 
ZIDCe ua, 0 10 owmg &C ons an p mgs : 
1. Actions of debt, covenant and assumpsit, wherein the debt or 
balance due, or the damages claimed, shall not exceed fifty dollars: 
2. Actions of trespass and trespass on the case, for injuries to per- 
lODS, or to real or personal property, wherein the damages claimed 
aball not exceed fifty dollars: 
a. All actions for any penalty not exceeding fifty dollars, given by
any statute of this state : 
,. All actions commenced by attachment of property, as herein af­
ter provided, wherein the debt or damages claimed, shall not exceed 
one hundred dollars : and, 
1. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defendant, 
where the amount confessed shall not exceed two hundred and fifty 
dollars.II 
!!!!!!!!! 
I S. When there shall be a bond with a penalty exceeding fifty 
dollars, with condition for the payment of a sum of money not ex- 
ceeding fifty dollars, or for the payment of several sums of money, by 
instalments, the aggregate of which instalments shall not exceed fifty 
dollars, an action of covenant may be maintained on such condition in
a justice's court ; and a recovery for either of such instalments shall
not bar a subsequent suit for the other instalments, or either of them. 
SEC. 4. But no J. ustice of the peace shall have cognizance of any
action, 
1. Wherein the people of this state shall be named as a party, ex­ 
cepting suits for penalties not exceeding fifty dollars : 
2. Nor where the title to land shall in any wise come in question,
as herein after provided : 
a. Nor of any action of assault, battery, false imprisonment, slan­
der, or malicious prosecution : 
,. Nor of any matters of account, where the sum total of the ac­
counts of both parties, proved to the satisfaction of the justice, shaJI 
exceed four hundred dollars : 
5. Nor of actions against executors, or administrators as such, or
against corporations.12 
SEC. 5. Actions cognizable before a justice, may be brought by and 
against all persons who sue or are sued in their own right, and by
and against all town and county officers, in their official character; 
and by executors, administrators and corporations.12 
SEC. 6. If after the election of any person as a justice of the peace, he
,hall become an inn-holder or tavern-keeper, in fact, he shall not have
any power or jurisdiction under the provisions of this Title; bat he
may issue execution upon any judgment actually rendered by him be­ 
fore he became so disqualified. Ja 
SEC. 7. No justice of the peace, being a member of the senate or as­ 
aembly, or being a judge of any county court, shall be obliged to take 
cognizance of any action, or to entertain any prooeedings under the
provisions of this Title ; but he may act therein, or not, at bis discre­ 
tion.11 
SEC. 8. Every such action shall be brought before some justice of the 
to h , , h ·
wn, w erem eu er, 
1. The plaintiffs, or any one of them, reside : or, 
2. Where the defendants, or any one of them, reside: or,
s. Before some justice of another town in the same county, next 
adjoining the residence of the plaintiff or defendant. 
14 
SEC. 9. But if a defendant has absconded from his residence, such ac-
tion may be brought before a justice of the town in which such de­ 
fendant or his property may be; and if the plaintiffs be all non-resi­
dents of the county, or if the defendant be a non-resident of the eeun­ 
ty, then such action may be brought before any justice of the town, in
'Whi~~~h plaintiffs or defendant may be. 
16 
SEC. 0. Any alderman of the city of Albany, may try a11y action
brought to recover a penalty, to the amount of ,twenty-five dollars or 
under, incurred under any of the by-laws of the said city, but shall
ha,e DO other jurisdiction under the provisions of this Title.16 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
OJ lu Commencement of Suits, and the SenJice at1d Retum of 
Process. 
Sa. U. Suit, how ccmunenced; proc•• enumerated.
SEC. 2. Whu nit. deemed to han been commenced.
JS. la wlaM eue9 IIUIUIIOlla to be fint Jll'OCUI, 
1.&. ContfJQb o( nmmon,; when to be made retanaable. 
U. At what time and bow summom to be nned.
SEC. 6. Bew to be retaned.
SEC. 7. Cua ia wbleh warnat thall be iuaed.
SEC. 8. C..U in which warrant or 1ummom may be i11ued
SEC. 9. Wunnt not to i11ue witboat pl'e'riou did&Yitl. 
I>. Coateab or warnnt.
SEC. 1. Bow N1Ted; when defendant to be canied before another justice. 
a Betam or wuraat bow made, ad it. coatentl, 
SEC. 1. .Bcmd to be given beCore warnnt to isne to detain a cua1 boat. 
U. Penalty and condition ofbond. 
SEC. 5. Defendant, how long to be kept iu cutody on a warraat.
SEC. 6. Cua in which attachment, may be i1111ed. 
SEC. 7. By what crediton application to be Jmde.
2S.. Proo& neceaury; 1nbpmw for W'itne11e1 to utabU.h debtl. 
SEC. 9. Bond witll •urety to be ginn; penalty ud condition.
I>. What attachment must contain. 
SI. Daty of eCllMtaMe in uecuting attaehment.
SEC. 2. Jlemoral or goodl may be prnented by bond; itl condition, &c. 
S.,. Claimant or goods attached, may give bond to retain them.
SL Comtable to delinr up good, oo reeeiviug bond.
I&. Attaobmea~ bow to be returned; papen to accompany it. 
SEC. 7. Proceedings on bond given by claimant.
SEC. 8. When bond or clai11N1Dt may be pl'Olecuted by defeadant in attachment, 
SEC. 1. Suits may be instituted before a justice, either by the volun- 
tary d
f
h 
. b h 
appearance an agreement o t e parties, or y process ; w en 
by process, it shall be either a summons, a warrant or an attachment.
SEC. 2. Suits shall be considered as commenced at the times follow- 
ing: 
1. Upon process. by warrant, at the time of the arrest of the de-
fendant: 
2. Upon process by attachment or summons, on the day when the 
procea shall be delivered to the constable. But if two or more suits 
be commenced, by summons or attachment, on the same day, the suit 
in which the process was first served, shall be deemed to have been 
first commenced : 
3. Where the suit is instituted without process, at the time of the 
parties joining issue. 
18
• 
SEC. 3. The first process against freeholders, and against inhabitants
having families, except as is otherwise herein after directed, shall be 
a summon• ; but no person 1hall be proceeded against by summons,
out of the county in which he resides.11 
SEC. 4. A summons shall be directed to any constable of the county
where the justice resides, commanding him to summon the defendant 
to appear before the justice who issued the same, at a time and place
to be named in such summons, not less than six, nor more than twelve 
days, from the date of the same, to answer the plaintiff in the plea, in
the same summons to be mentioned.11 
, US. A summons shall in all cases be served at least six days be­
fore the time of appearance mentioned therein : if the defendant shall
be found, it shall be served by reading the same to the defendant, and
( if required by him) delivering a copy thereof. If the defendant shall
not be found, it shall be served by leaving a copy thereof at the de­
fendant's last place of abode, in the presence of some one of the family 
of suitable age and discretion, who shall be informed of its oontentl.11 
SEC. 6. The constable serving a summons, shall return thereupon,
in writing, the time and manner in which be executed the same, and 
sign his name thereto.1" 
SEC. 1. A justice shall, upon application, issue a warrant in the foJ- 
• 
lowing cases: 
1. Where the defendant is a non-resident, or the county : 
1. Where the plaintiff is a non-resident, and tenders to the justice
aecurity for the payment of any sum wllich jnay be adjudged against 
him in the suit:
a. When it shall appear to the satisfaction of the justice, by the at 
fidavit of the applicant, or of any other witness, that the person against 
whom such warrant is desired, is about to depart from the county,
with intent not to return thereto: 
,. Where the defendant is an inhabitant of the county, having a 
family, or a freeholder of the same county, and it shall in like man· 
ner appear to the satisfaction of the justice, that the plaintiff will be
in danger of losing his debt or demand, unless such warrant be grant· 
ed.1s 
SEC. 8. A justice may, upon application, issue either a summons or 
h' · 
warrant, at is option, 
1. Against a defendant residing in the same county, who is neither 
a freeholder of the county, nor an inhabitant having a family: 
2. Against the defendant upon whom a summons shall have been
served only by leaving a copy, or in)ny other way than by reading
or delivering a copy to him personally, and who shall not have appear· 
ed at the time and place appointed in such summons, nor shown good 
cause for not appearing. But the suit instituted by such summons,
shall be deemed discontinued, unless the warrant be issued on the 
same day of the return of the first summons, and if so issued, the. suit
shall bedeemed to have been continued thereby.19 . ~ 
SEC. 9. In all cases, on application "ror a warrant, except where the
suit shall have been commenced by summons, the person applying :=Lor 
shall, by affidavit, state the facts and circumstances within his knowl- 
edge, showing the grounds of his application, whereby the justice may
the better judge of the necessity and propriety of issuing such war- 
rant.19 
SEC. 0. A warrant shall be directed to any constable of the county
where the justice issuing the same resides, and shall command such
conatable to take the defendant, and bring him forthwith before such 
justice, to answer the plaintiff in a plea, in the same warrant to be
mentioned; and shall further require the constable, after he shall have
arrested the defendant, to notify the plaintiff of such arrest. 
~ !l. A warrant shall be served, by arresting the defendant and 
taking him forthwith before the justice issuing the same. If such jus-
tice be, on the return thereof, absent, or unable to hear or try the 
cause, or it shall be made to appear to such justice, by the affidavit
of such defendant, that such justice is a material witness in the cause, 
the constable mall take the defendant before the next justice of the
city or town, who shall take cognizance of the cause, and proceed 
thereon, as if the warrant had been issued by him. 
• 
SEC. 2. Every constable serving a warrant, shall return thereupon 
m writing, the manner in which he executed the same, and the fact
whether he has or has not notified the plaintiff. 
SEC. 8. Whenever an action shall be brought to recover any penalty
·~ . . h 
J ... r- by law for takmg any rads, boards, planks or staves, from t e
banb or vicinity of a canal, in which a justice is authorised to direct 
the detention of any canal boat, he shall not endorse such direction on
any warrant, unless a bond, as prescribed in the next section, shall 
be executed and delivered to such justice.P"
SEC. 4. Such bond shall be in the penalty of at least one hundred 
doll
'th • be ed b h • • 
ars, w1 one or more sureties, to approv y sue justice,
conditioned that such action shall be prosecuted te judgment with all 
convenient ~' and that if judgment be rendered in favor of the de­
fendant, the obligors will pay the costs and charges which shall be 
adjudged against the plaintiff, and all damages which may ensue from 
the detention of such boat and the cargo thereof, and the crew navigat­ 
ing the same.so 
SEC. 5. When a defendant shall be brought before a justice on a war-
rant, be shall be detained in the custody of ihe constable, until the 
justice shall direct his release. But in no case shall the defendant be
detained longer than twelve hours from the time he shall be brought 
19 
bef th . . I . hi b • h • I f th hall
rors e justice, un ess wit m t at time, t e tria o e cause s 
be commenced; or unless it shall be delayed at the instance of the de­
fend ant. 
SEC. 6. An attachment against the property of any debtor, may be is­
sued on the application of a creditor, in the manner herein after pre­ 
scribed, whenever it shall satisfactorily appear to the justice, that such
debtor has departed, or is about to depart from the county where he
last resided, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the ser­
vice of any civil process ; or that such debtor keeps himself conceal· 
ed'with the like intent.21 
SEC. 7. Such application may be made by any creditor, or by his
personal representatives, having a demand against such debtor pera­ 
atly, whether liquidated or not, arising upon contract, or upon a judg· 
ment rendered within this state, amounting to one hundred doJlars, or
any less sum. 
21 
SEC. 8. Such application shall be in writing, and shall be accompa- 
nied by the affidavit of the creditor, or of his agent, in which shall be
specified, as near as may be, the sum in which the debtor is indebted 
over and above all discounts to the person in whose behalf application
is made, and the grounds upon which the application is founded; and 
the facts and eircumstanees to establish such grounds, shall also be ve-
rified by the affidavits of two disinterested witnesses: and it shall be 
the duty of the justice, on being requested so to do, to issue his sub-
pama, to compel the attendance of any witness forthwith, to make 
such affidavit. 
SEC. 9. The applicant shall execute to the defendant, and deliver to
the justice, a bond with sufficient surety, to be approved by such jus- 
tice, in writing upon such bond, in the penalty of two hundred dol-
lars, conditioned to pay such defendant all damages and costs which 
he may sustain, by reason of the issuing such attachment, if such
plaintiff fail to recover judgment thereon; and if such judgment be
recovered, that such plaintiff will pay the defendant all monies which
shall be received by him from any property levied upon by such at·
tachment, over and above the amount of such judgment, and interest
and costs thereon.21 '\.. 
SEC. 0. Every.such atdichment shall state the aniA.nt of the debt
sworn to by the applicant, and shall command any constable of the 
county in which the justice resides, to attach so much of the goods 
and chattels of the debtor, as will be sufficient to satisfy such debt;
and safely to keep the same, in order to satiafy any judgment that may
be recovered on such attachment ; and to make return of his proceed· 
in~ thereon, to the jus'tice who issued the same, at a time therein to
be specified, not less than six, nor more than twelve days, from the
date thereof. 
21
, • 
• 
~ SI. The coD8table to whom such attachment shall be directed
and delivered, shall execute the same at least six days before the re- 
tum day; and shall attach, take into his custody, and safely keep,
such part of the goods and chattels of the defendant, as shall not be 
exempt from execution, and as shall be sufficient to satisfy the de-
mand of the plaintiff. He shall immediately make an inventory of the 
property seized, and shall leave a copy of the attachment, and of the
inventory, certified by him, at the last place of residence of the de-
fendant ; but if the defendant have no place of residence in the county 
where the goods and chattels are attached, such copy and inventory 
shall be left with the person in whose possession the said goods and
chattels shall be found.22 
~ S!. No goods attached by a constable, shall be removed by him,
if a bond be given and delivered to such constable by any person, with 
sufficient surety, to be approved by the constable, in a penalty double 
the sum stated in the attachment to have been sworn to by the plain- 
tiff; conditioned, that such goods and chattels shall be produced, to sa- 
tisfy any execution that may be issued upon any judgment which shall 
be obtained by the plaintiff upon such attachment, within six months
after the date of such bond. u 
J SS. If any person shall claim any goods or chattels attached by a 
.......... bl h aft h • d • bef 
"'1UOI.CI e, e may, er sue seizure, an at any time rore execu-
tion shall have been issued upon the judgment obtained on such at- 
tachment, execute a bond to the plaintiff, with sureties to be approved 
by the constable, or by the justice who issued the attachment, in a pe- 
nalty double the value of the property attached, conditioned that in a
suit to be brought on such bond, within three months from the date, 
such claimant will establish that he was the owner of the goods seiz- 
ed, at the time of such seizure ; and in case of his failure to do so, that 
he will pay the value of the goods so claimed, with interest.
SEC. 4. Upon either of the bonds aforesaid being executed and deli- 
vered to the constable, he shall deliver up the property seized by him,
tothe obligor in such bond. 
SEC. 5. The constable serving the attachment, shall make a return
thereof, at the day therein named for that purpose, with all his pro- 
ceedings thereon, in writing, subscribed by him, with a copy of the
inventory of the goods attached, certified by him, and with any bond 
which may have been executed and delivered to him, pursuant to the 
foregoing provisions. 
SEC. 6. In eYery suit which shall be brought upon a bond, given by 
the claimant of property, pursuant to the preceding thirty-third section,
the claimant may give in evidence, in bar of a recovery, that he wu 
the owner of tile 'property seized, at the time of such seizure. If he 
fail to establish such ownership, or if judgment pass against him by 
default or on demurrer, the plaintiff shall recover the value of the pro­ 
perty so seized and delivered to such claimant, with interest from the 
date of the bond, to be assessed as damages, 
SEC. 7. If the amount so recovered exceed the amount of the plain-
tiff's judgment rendered on the attachment, he shall be liable to re- 
fund such excess to the defendant in such attachment. 
SEC. 8. If the defendant shall, before judgment, satisfy the claim on 
. 
which such attachment issued, and all costs thereon, or after judgment
shall pay the same, he shall be entitled to maintain an action on the 
bond executed by such claimant, in his own name, in the same man­
ner and with the like effect, as if such action had been brought by the 
obligee in such bond, as herein provided.
ARTICLE THIRD. 
OJ the .Appearance of Parties. 
SEC. 9. Plainti.61 not being infant., may appear in person orb:, attorne)'.
SEC. 0. Appointment of next friend for infant plaintHF,; hia liability for coat.. 
,&l. Defendant. not being infants, how to appear.
SEC. 2. Guardians for infant defendant.; when and how appointed.
SEC. 8. Con1ent to be filed; liability of guardian for costa. 
SEC. 4. Appearing by attorney; when constable not to act u such.
SEC. 6. Authority of attorney to be proTed; mode by proof.
SEC. 6. J ustiee to wait one hou after return of aummona or attachment. 
SEC. 9. Any plaintiff in a suit before a justice, except person~ under 
twenty-one years of age, may appear and conduct his suit, either in
person, or by attorney. 
SEC. 0. No process shall be issued for an infant plaintiff, nor shall 
any issue, joined by such plaintiff, without process, be heard, until a
next friend for such plaintiff shall have been appointed. Whenever 
requested, the justice shall appoint some suitable person who will 
consent thereto in writing, to be named by such plaintiff, to act as 
his next friend in such suit; who shall be responsible for the costs 
therein. 
SEC. 1. Every defendant in a suit, except persons under twenty-one
years of age, may appear and defend the same in person, or by auor­ 
ney; but where a warrant shall have been served, on a defendant and 
returned, no further proceedings shall be had against him, until he 
shall have personally appeared in court. 
SEC. 2. After the service and return of process against an infant de-
c. dan h · hall be fu th • ardi 
ien t, t e suit s not any r er prosecuted, until a gu aan 
for such defendant be appointed. Upon the request of such defendant, 
the justice shall appoint some person who will consent thereto in lVl'it·
ing, to be the guardian of the defendant in the defence of the suit.
And if the defendant shall not appear on the return day of such pro­
cess; or if he neglect or refuse to nominate such guardian ; the j111- 
tice may, on the motion of the plaintiff, appoint any discreet person as
w~guardian. 
SEC. 3. The consent of such next friend or guardian, shall be filed
with the justice. The guardian for the defendant shall not be liable
for any costs in the suit. 
SEC. 4. A party authorised to appear by attorney, may appoint any 
person to act as such attorney; but the constable who served either 
the original or jury process in the cause, shall not appear and advocate 
&>r either party at the trial, but may act as attorney in any other stage 
~in~ in fhe cause.23 
SEC. 5. The authority to appear by attorney, may be either written 
or verbal, and shall in all cases be proved, either by the attorney him-
aeIJ; or other competent testimony, unless admitted by the opposite 
party; and the justice shall not permit any person to appear for another,
without such proof or admission. 
SEC. 6. Upon the return of a summons personally served, or on the.i~ceto
return of an attachment duly served, the justice shall wait one hour:.:'~
after the time specified for the return of such process ; unless the par-
ties shall sooner appear. 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
OJ Pleading, and of Set-offs. 
Blc. ff, At what time pleadings to be had and une to be joined.
SEC. 8. Pleadinp how to be made; when to be filed; when to be enterecl. 
SEC. 8. Wbea nit by warrant not to bar nit by 11UD1DOm,
SEC. 0. Cues in which certaiD demancla may be 1et oft 
&I. When .et-o11' mut be pleaded or notice be given. 
a Bow judgment to be nadered in clil'erent cuea or aet-ofti. 
a Proeeedings whea balance due def'endant exceed• 50 dollan.
M.. When claim and aet-of' exceed 400 dollan, plaintif'to be DOD-suited. 
SEC. 6. Set-o& allowed in utiom by executon, &c. 
SEC. 6. Judgment thereon; ita ef'ect; execution when to uaue. 
ll'I. Daaaacb which might be 1et ofr, not to be aftenrarda reconred. 
SEC. 8. C... excepted Crom operation or Jut aectfon.
SEC. 9. Plea or notice or title to land. when and how to be given. 
a,. Bond 1o be given bJ defendant; ita penalty and condition.
SEC. 1. Bait to be ducontinaed; coata how paid and collected. 
II. UboDd not given, came to proceed. &c. 
SEC. 8. ProceediDga iC plaintif' draw title to land in qaeation, &e.
k New action in common pleu, how to declare; what to be plea, &c.
SEC. 5. Coste or nit in coDUDOD pleu; when defendant not to recover. 
SEC. 8. ProceediDga when aennl counta and title pleaded to aame. 
SEC. 7. At the time of the first appearance of the parties before the
, , , th f th . l 
,JUBtioe, either upon e return o process, or eir vo untary appear- 
ante to join issue, the pleadings of the parties shall be made, and the 
iaaue joined; and where both parties have appeared, an issue shall be 
ioined, before any adjournment shall be had ; except where the de- 
fendant shall have appeared upon a warrant, as herein after provided. 
• 
SEC. 8. The pleadings may be either verbal or writteDi, at the discre- 
tion of the party making the same, except in the case of a plea of title
to land. When -written, they shall be filed and remain with the jus­ 
tice ; when verbal, the justice shall enter in his docket the substance 
thereof.
SEC. 9. The pendency of a suit commenced by summons, shall not 
be a bar to a subsequent suit commenced by warrant, between
same parties, if it appear on the trial of such subsequent suit, that the 
defendant therein was about to abscond from the county, when sqch 
warrant issued. 24 · 
SEC. 0. In the following cases, and under the following circumstan-
ces, a defendant may set off demands which he has against the plain- 
tiff: . 
1. It must be a demand arising upon judgment or- upon cqntrac~
express or implied, whether such contract be written or unwritten, 
sealed or without seal ; and if it be founded upon a bond, or other
contract having a penalty, the sum equitably due, by _virtue of its con­
dition, only, shall be set off: 
2. It must be due to him in his own right, either as being the ori- 
ginal creditor or payee, or as being the assignee or owner of the e- 
mand:
a. It must be a demand for real estate sold, or for personal pro- 
Id fc id . d if . be ch
perty so , or or money pa1 , or services one; or It not su a 
demand, the amount must be liquidated, or be capable of being ascer· 
tained by calculation : 
4. It must have existed at the time of the commencement of the 
, d th h
suit, an must en ave belonged to the defendant: 
5. It can be allowed only in actions founded upon demands which 
could themselves be the subject of set-off, according to law: 
6. If there be several defendants, the demand set off must be due
II f th . . I 
to a O em joint y : 
7. It must be a demand existing against the plaintiff in the action, 
unless the suit be brought in the name of a plaintiff who bas no real 
interest in the contract upon which the suit ia founded ; in which case, 
no set-off of a demand against the plaintiff shall be allowed, unless as 
herein after specified :
s. If the action be founded upon a contract ( other than a negotiable 
promissory note, or bill of exchange,) which has been assigned by the 
plaintiff, a demand existing against such plaintiff or any usignee of
such contract, at the time of the assignment thereof, and belonging to
the defendant, in good faith, before notice of such assignment, P18Y be
set off to the amount of the plaintiff's debt, if the demand be such ... 
might have been set off against such plain'tiff or such assignee, while 
the contract belonged to him : 
the 
d 
•· If the action be upon a negotiable promissory note, or bill of ex-
chllrJg&, which has been assigned to the plaintiff, after it became due, 
• • 
a set-otf to the amount of the plamtiff's debt, may be made of a de- 
lmBII exilting against any person or persons, who shall have assigned
or tnnllerred IUCh note or bill after it became due, if the demand be 
Ilda u might have been set off' against the assignor, while the note or 
t.11 belcmged to him: 
SEC. 0. · If the plaintiff' be a trustee for any other, or if the suit be in the 
• 
Dllle of a plaintiff who has no real interest in the contract upon which
'8 euit is i>unded, se much of a demand existing against those whom
the pWati8" represents, or for whose benefit the action is brought, may 
be set~ as will sati.efy the plaintiif's debt, if the same might have 
beea let ol'in an action brought by those beneficially interested: 
SEC. 1. But if such action be brought by the assignee of an insolvent, 
imprimned, absent, concealed, or absconding debtor, no set-off shall 
be allowed of an7 debt, unless in the cases provided in the fifth Chap- 
ter of the Second Part of the Revised Statutes.25 
, 5.li. To entitle a defelldant to a set-off, he must plead or give no-
doe el tile aame, specifying tile nature of his claim, with reasonable 
cettaint,, at th time of joining issue on a question of fact upoa the
merits of the cause. 
~ ~!. If the 8?1ount of the set-off duly established, be equal to t!1e
plaiatif'e debt, Judgment llliall be entered for the defendant, with 
~ ; if it be less than the plaintiff's debt, the plaintiff shall have 
judgment tot the residue only, with costs. If it be more than the 
plaintif's debt, and the balance found due to the defendant from the
plliatif in the actien, be fifty dollars or under, judgment shall be ren- 
clereil m the detendant, for the amount thereof, with costs ; and exe-
cution shall be awarded as upon a judgment in a suit brought by him; 
but no nch judgment shall be rendered against the plaintiff when the 
attact, 1rhich ia the subject of the suit, shall have been assigned be-
be the commencement of such suit, nor for any balance due from any 
other person than the plaintiff in the action.Si6 
SEC. 8. It the balance found due to the defendant exceed fifty dollars, 
the justice shall 80t off so much of the defendant's demand against the
plamtiff's debt, as will be sufficient to satisfy it, if required to do so
by the defendant, and shall render judgment for the defendant, for. his 
t01C1; but if the defendant shall not require such set-off, the justice 
ahall enter judgment of discontinuance for the defendant, with costs ;
and the defendant may thereafter sue for and recover his demand in 
an, court having cognizance thereof.26 
I 5.(. If upon the ttial of a cause, it shall appear that the amount
~ the plaintiffts claim, together with the demands set off by the de- 
fendant, according to the preceding provisions, exceed four hundred 
dollars, judgment of discontinuance shall be rendered against the 
plaintiff', with costs.H 
SEC. 5. In. suits brought by executors or administrators, the defend­
ant may set off demands existing against their testators or intestates, 
and belonging to the defendant at the time of their death, in the 88ID8 
manner as if the action had been brought by and in the name of· the 
deceased. 
SEC. 6. Whenever a set-off is established in a suit brought by exe-
cutors or administrators, the judgment shall be against them in their 
representative character, and shall be evidence of a debt established,
to be paid in the course of administration ; but execution shall not is­
sue thereon, until directed by the surrogate who granted letters telta· 
mentary or of administration. 
SEC. 7. If a defendant neglect to plead or give notice of any set..oif,
which, according to the preceding provisions, might have been allow· 
ed to him, on the trial of the cause, he shall be forever thereafter pre­
cluded from maintaining any action to recover the same, or any part
thereof. And if the demand which might have been set off consisted 
of a negotiable note, or bill of exchange, no action shall be maintain­
ed thereon, by any person who may derive title thereto, from or
through the defendant.2'7 
SEC. 8. But the last preceding section shall not extend to the follow·
ing cases: 
1. When the set-off shall be fifty dollars more than the judgment 
which the plaintiff shall have recovered : 
!. Where the set-off consisted of a judgment in favor of the deimcf.
ant, or belonging to him, rendered before the commencement of the 
suit in which the' same might have been set off: 
a. Where a set-off shall have been claimed by him, and a balance 
exceeding fifty dollars shall have been found in his favor, the defend· 
ant may maintain an action for such part of his demand as was not 
allowed to him as a set-off': 
,. Where the suit was commenced against the defendant by at·
tachment, and he did not personally appear in such suit: 
• l'. ida ed off 
s. Claims 1or unliqui t damages, which could not be set on 
the trial of the cause, according to the preceding provisions : 
e. Claims in suit in any other court at the time of the commence-
ment of the suit before the justice.2'7 
SEC. 9. In every. action where the title to lands shall in any wise 
• • th d r. da th . h h . "red t
come n question, e eren nt, at e time w en e 1s reqm o 
join issue, and not after, may plead specially any plea, shewing that
the title of lands will come in question, or may, under the general is- 
me, give a notice to that effect : such plea and notice may be joined
with any other proper plea to the action. They shall be written, sign- 
ed by the defendant or his attorney, and delivered to the justice, who
ahall then countersign the same, and deliver them to the plaintiff. 
SEC. 0. At the time of tendering such plea, or plea and notice, the 
defendant, with at least one sufficient surety, to be approved by the 
justice, shall enter into a bond to the plaintiff, in the penalty of one
hundred dollars, conditioned, if such plaintiff shall commence a suit in 
the court of common pleas of the county, within thirty days thereafter, 
i>r the same cause of action whereon he relied before the justice, that
IAlCh defendant shall appear and put in special bail, in such court,
within twenty days after the return of process in such suit.28 
SEC. 1. Such bond shall be delivered to the justice at the time of=:.:_1:.a.
tendering such plea, or plea and notice ; and thereupon the action 
ahall be discontinued, and each party shall pay his own costs. The 
costs so paid by either party shall be allowed to him, if he recover
costs in the action brought in the common pleas, if any be brought 
if no suit be brought for the same cause of action in the court of com-
mon pleas, within thirty days after the delivery of the bond, the costs
and expell9e8 of the defendant before the justice, may be recovered by 
him of the plaintiff. 
28 
SEC. 2. If such bond be not delivered as herein directed, the justice 
ahall have jurisdiction of the cause, and shall proceed therein, and the
defendant shall be precluded in his defence, from all evidence draw- 
ing in question the title to lands. 
28 
SEC. 8. H it appear on the trial, from the plaintiff's own shewing, 
that the title to lands is in question, which title shall be disputed by
the defendant, the justice shall dismiss the cause, and the plaintiff"
aball pay the costs. 
SEC. 4. When a suit is discontinued before a justice, by the delivery
of a plea, or a plea and notice, and a bond as above provided, the 
plaintiff may prosecute an action for the same cause, before the court 
of common pleas of the oounty where such cause of action accrued
and the plaintiff in such suit, shall declare only for the same cause of 
action whereon he relied before the justice ; and the plea, or plea and
notice of the defendant, shall be the same which he tendered to the 
justice.28 
SEC. 5. If the judgment in such suit in the common pleas, shall be 
for the plaintiff, he shall recover costs ; if it be for the defendant,
(other 'than judgment of non-suit, or non pros.,) and the presiding 
judge shall not certify that the title to lands did come in question, the
defendant shall not recover costs, but shall pay costs to the plaintiff. 
28 
SEC. 6. If the plaintiff's declaration in a suit before a justice, shall con­ 
tain several counts, or causes of action, to one or more of which, a de­
feooe of title to lands be interposed by the defendant, and he ahlll ten· 
der a plea, or a plea and notice, to such count, or cause of action, lftd 
deliver a bond as above provided, the justice shall di8continue proceed·
ings for such cause of action, and the plaintiff may commence a 15uit iil 
the common pleas therefor ; and for the other causes of action, the~
tiee may continue his proceedings. 
ARTICLE FIFTH. 
OJ .Adjournment,. 
SEC. 7. When jutide may adjourn certain fUit,. 
SEC. 8. Reatrictiona upon power of justice to adjourn.
• When Md how plaintilf may have adjoanunent ln eertain eaaes. 
SEC. 0. C.U in which tn be allowed in certain swta upon warrants. 
SEC. 1. Detenclant arrested on warrant, to continue in cu.atody, &c. 
7'I. In -'at eues to be ditcharged uolb emtocly.
SEC. 8. Time ef adjeanuu~t in auita upoa ,ramnt. 
SEC. 4. How and wben defendant may have adjournment. 
'It. WW ftll'ther IUljoumment may be bad by him. 
T& 8"ariq to be a bead; ita eonditioa; when new bond not necuary.
SEC. 7. Proof to l,e imde, to entitle to recovery on bond. 
SEC. 8. No ~joutDJDent to be made beyond 90 days, wiehoatcOlllellt.
SEC. 9. la eeJtMa ca.e, party requiring to exhibit bia accoant, b. 
SEC. 7. At the time of the return of either a summons or attachment, 
or of joining issue without process, a justice may, in his discrttion,
and with or without the consent of parties, adjourn the caue not ex• 
ceeding eigbt days. 
29 
SEC. 8. A justice shall in no case adjourn a cause commenced by 
warrant, on his own motion ; nor shall he exercise that right in a tuit
commenced by summons or attachment, at any other time than on the 
Nb.Im of such summons ot attachment. 
SEC. 9. At the time of the return of a summons or attachment, or the 
:;~f::;.joining ofissue without process, the justice shall on the application of 
the plaintuf, adjourn the cause, to some time to be fixed by the justice, 
not exceeding eight days thereafter. But such adjournment shall not
be granted, unless the plaintiff' or his attorney shall, if required by the 
defendant. make oath that he cannot, for WBnt of some material te&ti­ 
mony or witness, safely proceed to trial. so 
~ -ro. No adjournment of a cause commenced by warrant, is.1ued
th 
at the suit of a non-resident plaintiff, shall be allowed unless in e 
(ollowing cases : 
1. On the consent of both parties : or, 
s, On the application of the defendant, supported by his oath, that
be has a good defence to the action, and that he is not ready to proceed
to the trial thereof; and in such case, it shall not be granted, uni~ 
the defendant will consent that any witness on the part of the plam· · 
~ who shall be then attending, may be then examined on oath by
1IUCh justice, his testimony reduced to writing, certified by the justice, 
and left with him, to be read on the trial of the cause : or,
a. On the application of the plaintiff, supported by his oath, that on 
account of the absence of some material witness or testimony, he can
not then safely proceed to the trial of the cause.31 
SEC. 1. If a cause commenced by warrant, be adjourned upon the 
application of the defendant, he shall continue, during the time of ad- 
jomnmeot, in the custody of the constable, unless he shall give the 
-=urity herein after directed to be given, in cases of adjoumment.11 
SEC. 1. If such cause be adjourned on the consent of both parties, or
if it be adjourned on the application of the plaintiff, the defendant lhall 
'be dilcbarged from custody ; but the cause shall not be di11C011tinued
by such discharge; and at the adjourned day, the. same proceeding. 
aball be had, as on the return of a summons pel'IOnally served. 
§ '7S. The first adjournment of a cause commenced by warrant, 
aball be to a day not Jess than three, nor more than twelve days there- 
after, 11nlea the parties and justice shall otherwise agree.11 
SEC. 4. In all cases ( other than where the suit shall have been com-
menced by warrant, at the suit 'of a non-resident plaintiff,) the cause 
shall be adjourned on the application of the defendant, on his comply-
ing with the following requisitions : 
1. The application must be made at the time of joining issue : 
2. IC required by the plaintiff or the justice, the defendant shall
make oath that be can not safely proceed to trial, for the want of aome
material testimony or witnea, to be specified by him : 
1. If required by the plaintiff, he sbaU give security, u herein after 
directed: . 
Such adjoumment shall be for such reasonable time, as will enable
the defendant to procure such testimony or witneas, not exceeding 
ninety dajs. II 
SEC. 5. In all cases, a defendant shall also be entitled to a further ad-
joumment, upon giving security, if required, as is directed in the next 
succeeding section, and upon proving, by his own oath or otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the justice, that he can not safely proceed to trial, 
1,r want of aome mateJ:ial testimony or witnea, and that he has used
due diligence to obtain such testimony or witneis. 
11 
SEC. 6. The security required by any of the preceding sections to be
given by a defendant, shall be a bond in the penalty of one hundred 
·dollars, to the plaintiff in the action, with such surety u the justice
lhall approve, conditioned, that in case judgment shall be given against
IUCb defendant at the adjourned day, or at any time thereafter, and 
execution be issued against his person, he will render himself upon 
such execution, before the return thereof; or in default thereof, that
he or his surety will pay the judgment so recovered, with inte~; 
but if any bond shall have been given upon any prior adjournment, it
shall not be necessary to execute a new bond upon a subsequent ad­
journment, unless such bond be required by the justice, or by the bail
of such defendant in such prior bond. 
SEC. 7. In any suit brought upon such bond, the plaintiff" alwl not
be entitled to recover, unless he shows an execution upon a judgment
obtained in the suit in which such adjournment was had, duly issued, 
within ten days after the time when by law the same could be issued,
against the person of the defendant, and a return thereon that such de­
fendant could not be found. 
SEC. 8. No adjournment" shall be allowed, without the agreement of
the parties, to a time beyond ninety days from the joining of the issue 
in the suit. 
12 
SEC. 9. No adjournment shall be allowed in any case to a party a~ 
plying therefor, who shall have seen the account or demand of the
opposite party, unless such applicant, if required, shall exhibit his ac­ 
count or demand, or state the nature thereof, as far forth 88 may be
in hie power, to the satisfaction of the justice. 
ARTICLE BIXTB. 
82 
Of Compelling the ...4ttendance of WUneasea. 
SEC. 0. Jmtiee1 may i11ne 1abpcenu for witne11e1 to appear, in certain cues. 
SEC. 1. ProoC to be giTea before nbpmaa ia1aed in a euue Wore mother jutiee,
SEC. 2. SubpatDU bow and by whom ,ened; ree to be paid. 
SEC. 3. When attachment to be i11ued against witnea1 refaaing, &c. to appear.
S&. Bow aecuted; feet thenon by wtaom to be paid.
SEC. 5. FiDe oa witnu• refuing to appear or to teltify.
SEC. 7. Fine how impoted; record or eonTiction.
SEC. 8. Esecution to collect fine; how long defemdant to be iaapri.....t.
SEC. 9. Applicatioa of money colleeted. 
9Q. Party refaaing, &c. to obey eubpc2na, liable (or clamagel. 
SEC. 0. Any justice of the peace may issue subpeenas, to compel the
attendance of witnesses to give evidence on any trial depending before
himself or any other justice. Such subpcena shall be valid to compel
the attendance of a witness being in the same county where the cause
is to be tried, or being in an adjoining county; and in no other case.•• 
SEC. 1. Ajustice shall not issue any subpoena to compel the attend· 
f ' bel!.. th ' · · · I th D 
ance o witnesses tore ano er justice, m any suit, un ess e perao
applying shall prove, by his own oath, or the oa~ of some other per·
son, that such suit is actually depending before such other justice.11 
SEC. 2. A subpoena may be served, either by a constable, or any oth-
er person ; and it shall be served by reading the same, or stating the 
contents to the witness, and by paying or tendering the fees allowed
by law for one day's attendance of such witness.11 
, SS. Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of the justice,
by proof made before him, that any person duly subpmnaed to appear 
be
'"- hi • hall h f sed 1 d "th • 
wre nn m any cause, s ave re u or neg ecte , w1 out JUSt 
cau.se, to attend as a witness, in conformity to such subpoena, and the
party in whose behalf such witness shall have been subpoenaed, shall 
make oath that the testimony of such witnesa is material, the justice 
shall have power to issue an attachment to compel the attendance of
such witness. 
, 84.. Every such attachment shall be executed in the same man- 
ner as a warrant, and the fees of the officers for issuing and serving the 
same, shall be paid by the person against whom the same shall have
been ialued, unless he shall shew reasonable cause to the satisfaction 
of the justice, for his omission to attend ; in which case, the party re- 
quiring such attachment, shall pay all costs of such attachment and 
the service of the same. 
SEC. 5. Every person duly subpoenaed as a witness, who shall not 
appear, or appearing, shall refuse to testify, shall forfeit, for the use 
of the poor of the town, for every such non-appearance or refusal, 
( unless some reasonable cause or excuse shall be shewn on his oath 
or the oath of some other person,) such fine, not less than sixty-two 
cents, nor more than ten dollars, as the justice before whom prosecu­
tion therefor shall be had, shall think reasonable to impose. H 
SEC. 6. Such fine may be imposed by the justice, if the witness be 
present and have an opportunity of being heard against the imposition 
thereof.14 
SEC. 7. The justice imposing any fine, shall make up and enter in 
:US docket, a minute of the conviction and of the cause thereof, and 
the same shall be deemed a judgment, in all respects, at the suit of 
the overseers of the poor of the town. 
34 
SEC. 8. Upon the imposition of such fine, and in default of payment
thereof, with costs, the justice shall forthwith issue an execution to 
any constable of the county, directing him to levy such fine, with
costs, of the goods and chattels of the delinquent, and for want there- 
of, to take and convey him to the jail of the county, there to remain 
until he shall pay such fine and costs; and the keeper of such jail is;::~[·
hereby required to keep such delinquent in close custody, in such jail,
until the fine and costs be paid ; but such imprisonment shall not ex- 
ceed thirty days. 
14 
· 
SEC. 9. When the money shall be collected on such execution, the
constable shall return the same to the justice, and such justice shall 
pay over the amount of the fine imposed, to the overseers of the poor
of the town, for the use of the poor. 
34 
SEC. 0. Every person subpcenaed as afoNsaid, and negleeting or re- 
fusing to appear or testify, shall also be liable to the party ~ whole 
behalf he shall have been subprenaed, for all damages which s~
party shall sustain, by reason of such non-appearance or refusal, 
AJITlOLll 8BVIDNTIL 
OftAe Trial of la,uu of Fact, and 111 ln.etlfflt, tAento. 
SEC. 1. , .... to be tried •, jutiee, if jay not ll9qllhed.
9'A. Wbea to proceed es parte on default of defendanb.
SEC. 9. At what time jary may be demanded by either party.
9'. Vesaire to be iuaed; to ,rllom dincte4; iu ~b.
SEC. 6. Parties .. ,. mgree on •umber of juron J nnire to eorretpond
SEC. 6. V ari&Dce in nnire when auit between two towm. 
tr. To what eonltable ftllire to be deli--. 
98, Daty ol conatable in es.ecuting; retnm of Yeaire. 
SEC. 0. Proceedings (or drawing jury on trial.
SEC. 1. If awffie~ juron not drawn, defi•ieney Jac,w M1pplled. 
lO"l. In what ouea new nnire to be i11aecL 
100 & 10.t. Jurors' oath; publicly to hear proof,, &c. of parties.
SEC. 5. Es parte afliduiu not to be evidence withoat eoment. 
SEC. 1. 
SEC. 7. Competency ohvitne11e1 off'ered, how tried and determined. 
SEC. 8. Oath ol witoalM; not to ketifJ aaleu it be tabD. 
tee. J nry to be kept by coutable; ~ oath for tbat purpoae. 
SEC. 0. Verdict bow returned, &c.; plaintift'to be pn1ent at neeiYing.
Ill. Wilen jaltice may diKharge jvy; when to imae aew ......... 
111 Fine on j'uon refuing to -wear or to aene, 
SEC. 1. Whenever issue shall have been joined in a suit bewre • 
justice, if po jury shall have been demanded by either party, tlae jus- 
tice shall proceed to try such issue, to hear the proofs and allegations 
of the parties, and to determine the same, according to Jaw aDd equity, 
as the very ·right of the case may appear. 
SEC. 2. Whenever a defendant, who has been personally served with 
summons, or who shall have procured an adjournment, wit.bout
having joined issue, shall neglect to appear and join issue, the justice 
shall proceed to hear the proofs and allegations of the plaintiff, and 
determine the same as above prescribed.
SEC. 8. After issue joined, and before the justice shall proceed to an 
investigation of the merits of the cause, by an examination of a w1 -
ness, or the hearing of any other testimony, either of the parties, or 
the attorney of either of them, may demand of the justice, that the
cause be tried by a jury. n 
SEC. 4. Upon the demand of a trial by jury, the justice shall issue a 
venire directed to any constable of the county wherein the came is to 
be tried, commanding him to summon twelve good and Iawf ul men, 
in the town where such justice resides, qualified to serve as jurors, ~d
not exempt from serving on juries in courts of record, who shall be !0 
no wise of kin to the plaintiff or defendant, nor interested in such suit,
to appear before such justice, at a time and place to be named there­
in, to make a jury for the trial of the action between the parties named
in such venire. 
36 
. 
it 
SEC. 5. The parties may agree upon any number of jurors, less than
six, to try the cause ; and the justice shall direct in 1he t,et1ire, the 
summonmg of so many Jurora, as saall be double the number so agreed
upan. 
• • . 
SEC. 6. If the action in which such iesue shall be joined, be between 
• • 
two towns, the t1aa1re shall direct the constable to summon twelve 
good and lawful men of the county, qualified and not exempt, and not
interested, as herein before provided, to make a jury for the trial of
such action. 
SEC. 7. Tbe justice iBauing a t,tnire, shall deliver, or cause the same 
to be deliYered, to some constable of the county, disinterested between
the parties, and against whom no reasonable objection shall have been 
made hy either party. 
SEC. 8. The constable to whom any t,4'ntre shall he delivered, shall
b
fa
• I d • • 11 d h 11
execute t e same tr y an imparna y ; an s a not summon any 
person whom he has reason to believe biassed or prejudiced for or
agaiDst either of the parties. He shall summon the jurors personally, 
and shall make a list of the persons summoned, which he shall certify
aDd annex to the offltl"e, and return to the justice. se 
SEC. 9. At tlae trial of the cause, the names of the persons 80 return- 
ed, and who shall appear, shall be respectively written on several and 
diatinct pieces of paper, as nearly of one size as may be; and the 
COGllable, in the presence of the justice, shall roll up or fold such
pieces of paper, as nearly as may be, in the same manner, and put 
them together in a box, or some convenient thing. 
38 
SEC. 0. The justice shall then draw out six, ( or such number as the
partiea may bave agreed upon,) of such papers, one after another; 
illd if any of the persons whose names shall be so drawn, shall be
cballenged and set aside, then IUCh further number shall be drawn as 
will make up the number required, after all legal causes of challenge
allowed by the justice. The persons so drawn, appearing, and ap­
proved u indifferent, shall compose the jury to try the cause. 
SEC. 1. H a sufficient number of competent jurors shall not be
dra\VD, the justice may supply the deficiency by directing the consta- 
ble to sununon any of the by-standers, or others, who may be compe- 
tent, and against whom no cause of challenge shall appear, to act as
jlllOrs in the '*19e. H 
SEC. 2. If the constable to whom the venire shall have beeu deli-
vered, do not return the same as thereby required, or if a full jury 
aball not be obtained, in the manner declared in the preceding aections, 
tbe justice shall iame a new tlfflW6, 
88 
i tos. To each juror the justice shall administer an oath or affir-
tnation, well and truly to try the matter in di[erence between 
38 
plaintiff, and defendant, and unless discharged by the justice, a
true verdict to give, according to evidence. 
11 
SEC. 4. After the jury shall be duly sworn, they shall sit together
and hear the proofs and allegations of the parties, which shall be de- 
livered publicly, in their presence • .,. 
SEC. 5. No ex parte affidavit of any person shall be allowed or gir­
en in evidence on any trial, either with or without a jury, unless the 
parties agree to allow the same. 
87 
SEC. 6. A party in the suit, or having an interest in the verdict,
may be a witness to prove the death or absence beyond the reach of a
subpoena of the justice, of a subscribing witness to, or the loss of, any 
instrument, which shall come in question on the trial, in order to in­ 
troduce other proof of the execution or contents of such instrument;
but in no other case, without the consent of the parties. 
31 
SEC. 7. If a witness, on being produced, shall be objected to as in· 
competent, such objection shall be tried aud determined by the justice.
Evidence may be given in support of, or against such objection, as in 
other cases; or the proposed witness may be examined on oath, by 
the party objecting, and if so examined, no other testimony shall be 
received from either party, as to the competency of such witness. 
SEC. 8. E'rery person offered as a witness, before any testimony be 
given by him, shall be duly sworn or affirmed, that the evidence he 
shall give jelating to the matter in difference between plaintiff,
and defendant, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing 
but the truth. 
11 
SEC. 9. After hearing the proofs and allegations, the jury shall be 
kept together in some convenient place, under the charge of a consta-
ble, until they all agree upon their verdict; and for that purpose, the 
justice shall administer to such constable, the following oath: "You
swear in the presence of Almighty God, that you will, to the utmost . 
of your ability, keep the persons sworn as jurors on this trial, together, 
in some private and convenient place, without any meat or drink, ex·
cept such as shall be ordered by me ; that you will not suffer any 
communication, orally or otherwise, to be made to them ; that you 
will not communicate with them yourself, orally or otherwise, unlea 
by my order, or to ask them whether they have agreed on their ver­
diet, until they shall be discharged ; and that you will not, before they 
render their verdict, communicate to any person the state of their de­ 
liberations, or the verdict they have agreed on. "37 
SEC. 0. When the jurors have agreed on their verdict, they shall 
deliver the same to the justice, publicly, who shall enter it in his
docket. Previous to receiving it, the justice shall call the plaintiff. 
IC he be ahlent, and no one appear for him, the verdict shall not be 
"ed
rece1v • 
SEC. 1. Whenever a justice shall be satisfied that a jury sworn in 
any cause before him, cannot agree on their verdict, after having been 
SEC. 8. new 
vmire, returnable within forty-eight hours, unless the parties shall
have consented that the justice may render judgment on the evidence
already before him; which in such cases he may do. 
~ 1 H. Every person who shall be duly summoned as a juror, and
shall not appear, nor render a reasonable excuse for his default ; or 
appearing, shall refuse to serve; shall be subject to the same fine, to 
be prosecuted for.and collected with costs, in the same manner, and
applied to the same use, as herein before provided, in respect to a per- 
son subpoenaed as a witness, and not appearing, or appearing and refus- 
iog to testif Y • 
88 
ARTICLE EIGHTH. 
Of Judgments, and Filing Transcripts thereof. 
SEC. 0. 
SEC. 4. Requisitea to judgment on confe11ion. 
SEC. 5. Jwigmeata othenrite confessed TOid, with certain exceptions. 
SEC. 6. Power of common pleu over jutice'a judgment.; proceedings.
SEC. 7. Proceedinga on execution, if judgment be established.
SEC. 8. 1( jutice a material witne11, cau1e to be discontinued. 
SEC. 9. Cue• in which judgment or non-1uit, with coetl, to be rendered. 
UIO. Judgment to be rendered, when there i1 no cause of action. 
SEC. 1. When judgment to be rendered for plaintiJI".
SEC. 1. Judgment against joint defendant., on appearance of one, &c. 
SEC. 8. Effect of such judgment against party appearing and party not appearing. 
1M. Ia what cue, judgment to be rendered forthwith; when within four day,. 
SEC. 5. Any party may rem.it excea,, &c. in certain cues. 
SEC. 6. Cost. to be awarded; whole amount not to exceed fiye dollan, except, &c. 
SEC. 5. 
SEC. 8. Coanty clerk to file tnn,cript; to become a lien on real estate. 
SEC. 9. S.ch juclgmentl may be reTi red. 
SEC. 8. A justice of the peace may enter a judgment, by confession 
of the defendant, in any case where the debt or damages confessed, 
shall not exceed two hundred and fifty dollars, with such stay of exe- 
cution, as may be agreed on by the parties interested in such judg-
rnent.99 
SEC. 4. No confession shall be taken, or judgment rendered there-
on, unless the following requisites be complied with : 
1. The defendant must personally appear before the justice: 
1. The confession shall be in writing, signed by the defendant, and 
filed with the justice:
a. If the judgment be confessed for a sum exceeding fifty dollars, 
the confession shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the defendant
and plainillf, stating that such defendant is honestly and justly indebt- 
ed to the plaintiff in the sum named in such affidavit, over and above 
all just demands which he has against him, and that such confesaion ii
not made or taken with a view to defraud any creditor.P 
SEC. 6. Every judgment confessed without a compliance with the
provisions of the la1t preceding section, shall be void as against all
persons, except a purchaser in good faith of any goods or chattels, lands
or tenements, under such judgment, and except the defendant making
such confession. 
40 
SEC. 6. Any Judge of the court of common pleas of the county, may, 
on the application of any creditor of the person against whom any judg­ 
ment shall have been recovered, upon confession or otherwise, that
shall be a lien on the real estate of the defendant, upon sufficient cause
shown by affidavit, that such judgment was obtained fraudulently,
with intent to defraud creditors, grant an order to stay all proceedings
on such judgment, until the further order of the said court of common 
pleas ; and that court shall have the like power to inquire into the
consideration of such judgment, and to set aside the same, or to make 
any other order in the premises, as if the judgment had been originally
rendered in that court. 
SEC. 7. Ii an execution shall have been issued on such judgment,
and the judgment be established, the officer having such execution, 
may proceed thereon to collect the amount of such judgment, in the
same manner, as if the proceedings had not been stayed, and within
such time as the court shall direct. 
SEC. 8. If, previous to joining issue in any cause, ( except where
the defendant shall have been arrested by warrant.] the defendant
shall make affidavit, that the justice before whom the same is pending
is a material witness for such defendant, without whose testimony be 
cannot safely proceed to the trial, judgment of discontinuance shall be
entered, but without costs against either party. 
SEC. 9. Judgment of non-suit, with costs, shall be rendered against
plaintiff prosecuting a suit before a justice of the peace, in the follow· 
ing cases: 
1. If he discontinue to withdraw his action : 
2. If he fail to appear on the return of any process, within one
hour after the same was returnable : 
a. If after an adjournment, he fail to appear within one hour after
the time to which the adjournment shall have been made: 
4. If he become non-suited on the trial : 
6. If he shall not appe,ar on the coming in of the jury to hear their
verdict. 
SEC. 0. Judgment for the defendant, with costs, shall be rendered,
whenever a trial has been had, and il be found by verdict, or by the 
decision of the justice, that the plaintiff has no cause of action against
the defendant. 
, l!l. If upon the trial of the cause; or upon an ~ parte hear·
ing, in those cases where it may be bad on the defendant's failing to~
appear; a sum, hi debt or daiw.ges, shall be found in favor of the plain- 
tin; then judgment shall be rendered against the defendant for such 
debt or damages, and Ole costs.
SEC. 2. If process shall have iBSUed agai111t two or more per· 
30D.S jointly indebted, awl shall have been personally serred upon ei-
tber of the defendants, the defendant who may have been served with 
process, shall amwer to the plaintiff; and the judgment, in such case,
if rendered in favor of the plaintiff, shall be against all th!:! defendants, 
in the same manner as if all had been served with process; but execu-
tion shall issue only in the manner herein after directed.41 
SEC. 3. Such judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the liability=·
of the defendant who was personally served with process in the suit, 
or who appeared therein; but against every other defendant, it shall
be evidence only of the extent of the plaintiff's demand, after the lia- 
bility of such defendant shall have been established by other evidence.
SEC. 4. In cases where a plaintiff shall be non-suited, discontinue 
or withdraw hia action, and where judgment shall be confessed, and
in all cases where a verdict shall be rendered, or the defendant shall
be in custody at the time of hearing the cause, the justice shall forth-
with render judgment, and enter the same in his docket. In all other 
cues, he shall render judgment, and enter the same in his docket, with-
in four days after the cause shall have been submitted to him for his 
final decision. 42 
SEC. 5. When a balance shall be found in favor of a party, either
by the verdict of a jury, or upon a hearing before the justice, exceed- 
ing the sum for which the justice is authorised to give judgment, such
party may remit and release the excess, and may take judgment for 
the residue.
SEC. 6. Whenever a judgment shall be rendered by a justice against 
any party, unless herein otherwise provided, it shall be with the costs
of the suit. But the whole amount of all the items of such costs, ex­
cept charges for the attendance of witnesses from another county,
shall not, in any case, exceed five dollars. 
43 
SEC. 7. It shall be the duty of a justice of the peace, on the demand
of any person in whose favor he shall have rendered a judgment for 
above twenty-five dollars, exclusive of costs, to give a transcript of 
such judgment, together with the original bond of security for stay of
execution, if there be such bond. 
44 
SEC. 8. It shall be the daty of tbe clerk of the county in which such
j~dgrnent shall have been obtained, to file such transcript and bond in 
his office, and to enter and docket the judgment, in a book to be by him 
• 
kept for that purpose, noting therein the time of receiving the same. 
Such judgment, from and aft.er the time of such entry and docket, by
the clerk, shall be a lien on the real estate of the defendant within 
the county, in the same manner and with the like effect, as if such
judgment had been rendered in the court of common pleas; and may 
in the aame manner, be diacharged and cancelled. 
A.llTICLE NINTH. 
Of Executions; of Saka thereon, and of Impriaonmtnlr 
SEC. 0. Execution, to be i11ued on judgment.. 
SEC. 1. Content. of execution; fmther clauae when agailllt male,. 
SEC. 2. To ia1ue immediately, when bond given for monthly inatalmants.
SEC. 3. Al10 against persons not being freeholden or not having families.
SEC. 4. When to i11ue apinlt freeholden and penom laving familiea. 
SEC. 5. When party may have execution at once; proceedinga.
SEC. 6. I11uing may be ,tayed by giving bond; it1 condition.
SEC. 1. 
SEC. 8. Endorsement on execution by jutice, on receiving aecurity. 
SEC. 9. Duty of constable; execution may be renewed.
SEC. 0. Certain cue, in which endonement not to be made.
SEC. 1. Execution agai.Dlt joint debtors] endonement to be made thereon. 
SEC. 2. Such execution,, bow to be aerred.
SEC. 8. Executions for certain penaltie,; defendant. how to be impri90lled. 
SEC. 4. Executions when to be dated and when to be returnable. 
SEC. 5. How renewed by endonement; effect of remonh. 
SEC. 6. Execution, may be i.s1ued wit'bin two yean after judgment.
SEC. 7. Farther uecutiom when to is,ue. 
SEC. 8. Comtable to endorse time of levying; notice of aale.
SEC. 9. When and how to aell; return of execution; proceed, how applied. 
ltsO. Coutable making aale not to purchue any property.
SEC. 1. If no property to levy upon, defendant to be impri,oned. 
SEC. 2. In certain cue1, defendant to be di1charged at certain times.
SEC. 3. Affidavita to be made, to entitle to diacharge.
SEC. 4. Priaoner to be diacharged; affidavit where to be filed.
SEC. 6. Penalty for refuaing to diacharge. 
SEC. 6. Defence on prosecution for discharging prisoner. 
SEC. 7. Judgment not aft'ected by diacharge, &c.
SEC. 8. Female1 nGt to be impri1oned on justice', execution.
SEC. 9. Remedy againlt coD1table neglecting to return execution. 
SEC. 0. Not to apply to executiom on which exemption i, endor,eci. 
SEC. 1. No act to be done under execution, after ill return day, &c. 
SEC. 2. Last aectiou not to apply to cue, where exemption ia endoned. 
SEC. 3. Proceedinga to recover money collected by comtable. 
SEC. 4. County clerk to i11ue executiom on judgments of which tnnacriph are filed,
SEC. 6. When auch execution to be i11ued. 
SEC. 6. Authority of common pleu to award and control 1uch exeeutions. 
SEC. 7. Form of 1uch execution; how teated and aigned.
SEC. 8. Proceedings again,t sheriff for return of execution, &c. 
SEC. 9. Certain property of houae.holden exempt from execution. 
SEC. 0. Upon any judgment being rendered before a justice, he 
shall issue execution, at the time and in the manner herein after pre­ 
scribed. 
46 
SEC. 9. Every judgment of which a transcript ~hall be filed and
docketed, as herein directed, may be revived by scirefacia,, in the
court of common pleas of the county, in the same manner, in the like
cases, and with the like effect, as if such judgment had been obtained 
in that court. 
------ ------ ------- 
§ ISi. It ahall be directed to any conatable within the- llllll8 coun-
ty, and ..U command him to levy the debt or damages, and COltl, ~ 
of tlae gocJda aad chattels of the penoD agaimt whom the l8ID8 ahall 
be illUed, ( excepting such gooda and chattels u are by law enmptllNi 
from eucution,) and to briDg the money, at a certain time and. pb1ce
thenria to be mentioned, hebe such justice, to render to the party 
who recoYered the same; and if the execution be ilned agaiDlt a.-
male penon, it lhall command the constable, that if no gooda or_ cbat- 
tela cm be found, or not BUflicient to satisfy such execution, to take 
die body of the pel'IOn against whom the execution shall be illued,
and a111Yey him to the common jail of the county, there to remain un- 
til Ilda execution ahall be satisfied and paid. '1 
I JS!. If any defendant not being a freeholder, eball have· executed
a bond for the payment of monthly inatalments, u herein after pro-:' 
rided, execution shall ilsue immediately. 
I tSS. Upon the rendering of a judgment against any penon who 
i.t not, at the time, a 'freeholder of the county where the justice reaidee, 
nor an inhabitant of such county having a family, such execution lhall 
iaue immediately; but the jUBtice may require proof from the party 
demanding such execution, on bis own oath, or otherwile, of the fact
eatitling him thereto, according t.o this section. 
41 
SEC. 4. Upon a judgment against a penon, being at the time a free. 
bolder of the county, or being an inhabitant of such county and hav- 
ing a family, execution ahall issue as follows: 
1. If the amount recovered, exclusive of coata, does not exceed 
twenty-five dollars, at the expiration of thirty days from the rendering 
and entering the judgment: 
l. If the amount recovered, excloaive of cost,, exceed twenty-five 
dollars, at the expiration of ninety days from the entering .of the judg-
ment: 
And executions, in such cues, ( except where otherwise provided) 
shall not issue sooner, without the consent, in writing, of the party
against whom judgment was obtained, or without the proof, in the next
section specified. 
41 
SEC. 5. If the party obtaining a judgment shall make it appear, by
his own oath, or by other competent testimony, to the satisfaction or-• 
the juatice, that such party will be in danger of losing the debt or da- 
mages recovered by him, unless execution issue ~ner than is pre- 
~'bed in the last preceding section, such justice shall issue execution
nnJnediately ; unlea the same be stayed by the party against whom 
the judgment was obtained, as herein after provided. Application for 
....... L • ad .th her; th , f d . 
OIIWI execuuon may be m e er er ,ore or at e tune o ren ermg 
the judgment; or if reasonable notice be given to the adverse party of 
the iateation to apply for mch esecutiqn,_ ~ application .,,.., be
mMe at any time after tile judgment ablill have been teDdenMl.41 
SEC. 6. Tiie party agaimt am any jlidglDlllt lhall be NCOVINCI, 
.1.L- • • f • the til th ......,.,.... •
may stay ...., mwng O execution reon UD 8" -~- .... , 
llereio before p1'81Cribad, by giving a boni to the party in w&oae • 
vor judgment wu obtained, ira such peMky and with 1Nc1a 11e11r~ u
th• justice ..U approve, ccmdit»ned b the payment of the moMJ 
rearrenMI· and the coats, with iDterest, at or before the espiratioa of
ninttty days &om the time of the rendering such judgment, if such
mone1 exceed twenty-five dollars, e.xelmiYe of coats ; and at the ex·
piration « thirty clays &om the rendering of judgment, if suca moaey
shall not exceed twenty-be dollan, exclusiYe of coet.e. If nch Nnd 
be left with tile justice, for the use of the party to whom it was ginn,
at the ~ of rendering judgment, or before the actual ismiDg of exe­
cution thereon, no execution shall be issued on such judgment until 
the replar time.,, 
SEC. 7. Every person who bas a family in this state, for which he
provides, and who is not a freeholder of any lands or tenements, may, 
on the trial or at the time of rendering a judgment which does not ex· 
ceed twenty-five dollars, in any cause in_ which be is defendant, prove 
that be is not such freeholder, and bas such family, by hil on oath
or otherwise ;. and before or at the time of the issuing any execution
against him, may execute a bond to the plaintiff, in such penalty, and 
with such security, as the justice shall approve, conditioned that he 
will pay upon such execution the sum of one dollar and fifty ceats, 
within one month after the time judgment shall have been rendetecl,
and the same sum in each month thereafter, until the amount of die
execution and of the constable'• fees are fully paid ; and that he wilt
remain within the county, so that be may be taken in execution, in 
case of his failure to pay either of such monthly instalments. 
SEC. 8. Upon such bond being executed, approved and filed with
the • • b h 11 :t th • • ed b hi the 
Justice, es a endorse on e execution issu y un on 
judgment in such suit, a direction to the constable to receive tlie sum
of one dollar and fifty cents in each month, and to suspend the service
of such execution, so long as the said payments shall continue to be 
made, until the whole amount of the execution be collected ; and if 
there be any failure in making such payment, that then such constable
shall immediately proceed with the said execution. 
4' 
SEC. 9. Such directions shall be observed by the constable; and in 
case of a default by the defendant to make any such payment, the
constable shall proceed, within thirty days thereafter, as if no such
directions had been endorsed. If the same be not collected, it may 
be renewed from time to time, as other executions; or if it be return·
ed unsatisfied, in whole or in part, an action may be maintained on
the judgment, as in other c~s. 
41 
SEC. 8. But noelrionement anll be· .ade bya jUltioe, ;oa any Qe- 
Clltian, puaMDt 4o the fotegoieg provieions, in the iollowiJlg eaaee : 
1. Where the amount of the judgment, excllllive of coeta, ~ 
twenty-4Ye dollars:
~. Where the judgment was for a treapus proved on the. trial to 
hlYe been wilful and malicious. ta 
SEC. 1. When a judgment shall be obtained against joint .Iebtol'I, 
hi
h
eel
II the
. ..J ndan . 
upoa process w c was not se" upon a defe ts, execution
may be i1111ed in form against all; but the justice shall endorse there- 
OD the names of such of the defendants who did not appear in the suit, 
u were not ,erved with process of warrant, summons or attachment. 
SEC. 1. S11ch execution shall not be served upon the pel'IOlls of the
~ta wiose names are so endorsed thereon ; nor shall it be le- 
rilld on the sole J)l'Operty of any such defendant ; but it may be col·
leded of the personal property of any such defendant, owned by him 
u a partaer of the other de'3ndanta, appealing or served with p~
or with any of them.•• 
J US. Whenever any recovery shall be bad before a justice of the 
,-e, far any penalty or forfeiture incurred by violating any provi-poaa1•
lion COD&ained in the ninth Title of the twentieth Chapter of the First
Part of the ReTiled Statutes, which is entitled "or excise, and the 
l'flllla&ion oC taverns and groceries;" or for any penalty or forfeiture 
incurred by violating any provilion contained in the eleventh Title of
the ll8IDe Chapter, relating to fisheries, execution shall issue thereon
imlllediately,. and the justice shall endorse upon such execution, the 
ca.ue for which such judgment was rendered; and in case no gOOO;S 
or chattels can be found. to satisfy such execution, the constable hav-
iog the same shall commit such defendant to the jail of the county,
and ahall deliver to the keeper thereof a certified copy of such execu-
tion and endorsement; by virtue of which, such keeper shall detain 
such defendant for a period not exceeding sixty days, without allow-
ing him the benefit of the liberties of such jail. •0 
J 144- Every execution issued by a justice, shall be dated on the
day when it actually issued, and shall be returnable, 
1. In "ninety days from the date thereof, in cases where the judg-
nient, exclusive of costs, exceeds twenty-five· dollars : 
t. In thirty days from the date thereof, in all other cues.11 
SEC. 5. U any execution be not aatiafied, it may, from time to time,
be renewed by the justice issuing the same, by an endorsement there- 
on to. that effect, signed by him, and dated when the same shall be
made. IC any part of such execution has been satisfied, the endorse- 
JDent or renewal isbaU exp~ the sum due on the execution. Eve-
ry such endonement shall be deemed to renew the execution in full 
49 
iorce, in all· reepect&, for ninety days, if it ilaued on a judgmentiir
more than twenty-be dollars, excluaiYe of COits, and for thirty days, 
in all otlaer cues ; and no longer. u 
\ 
SEC. 6. An execution may be issued upon any judgmentTOOOl'81'ed
before a jUltice, at any time within two years from the time such judg­
ment shall have been rendered. 
SEC. 7. If an execution be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part,
a further execution, for the amount remaining due, may be issued.• 
SEC. 8. The constable, after taking goods and chattels into his cus­
tody, by virtue of an execution, shall endorse thereon the time of le­ 
vying the same, and immediately give public notice, by advertisemen~
signed by himself and put up at three public places in the city or 
town, where such goods and chattels shall be taken, of the time and 
place, within such city or town, when and where they will be expo,­ 
ed to sale. Such notice shall describe the goods and chattels taken, 
and shall be put up at least five days before the time appointed for the
sale.11 
SEC. 9. At the time and place so appointed, if the goods and chat- 
1 be d · ed h • · d · · ..1 
te s preeent, an pomt out tot e inspection an exammat1on ui 
the bidders, the constable shall expose them to sale at vendue, to the
highest bidder. He shall return the execution, and pay the debt, « 
damages, and costs levied, to the justice who issued the same, re­
turning the overplus, if any, to the person against whom the execu­ 
tion issued.11 
SEC. 0. No constable or other officer shall, directly or indi,ectly,
purchase any goods or chattels, at any sale made by him, upon exe­
cution ; but every such purchase shall be absolutely void. 
SEC. 1. For want of goods and chattels whereon to levy, the ~n­ 
stable ahall, in the cues authorile<l by law, if the execution reqwre
it; take the body of the person against whom the execution shall have
i11Ued, and convey him to the common jail of the city or county, the
keeper whereof ii hereby required to keep such person in safe custo­
dy, in jail, until the debt, or damages and costs, shall be paid, or he be
thence dilcbarged, by due course of law. 
15 
SEC. 2. If the penon 80 committed to jail, have a family in this
state, for whicll he provides, and be not a freeholder, he aball be dil­ 
charged, after he shall have remained in prison thirty days; and if he 
haYe no family, and be not a freeholder, he shall be discharged, after
remaining in prison sixty days.15 
! 153.. Before such prisoner shall be discharged, he shall make and 
deliver to the sheruf or jailer, an affidavit, taken before some officer
authorised to take affidavits, stating the facts which, according to the 
provisions of the preceding section, entitle him to such dilcharge, 
14 
61 
SEC. 4. 'J1ae llbemf or jailer, upon the receipt of sucli affidavit, lball
fordnrida di8charge the priloner &om his CUltody; and aball file the~ 
aflidarit in the office of the clerk of the county, whoee duty it ahall 
N to file the ame, without Cee or reward. N 
SEC. 5. IC the sheriff" or jailer, upon the receipt oC such affidavit,
sball refine to discharge such prisoner, he shall forfeit twenty-fiTe dol- 
Jars for each day he shall detain such prisoner, to be recovered, with
COits, by the party aggrieved, to his own use, in addition to any da- 
mages he may recover for the false imprisonment. .. 
SEC. 6. If the sheriff" or jailer be prosecuted, by reuon of any such 
dildmge, he may plead the general issue, and give in evidence such 
affidoit, or a copy thereof, duly certified by the clerk of the county, 
under the aeal of the court of common pleas, in his full justification and
deioce." 
SEC. 7. Notwithstanding the discharge ~fthe defendant, under the 
preceding 1eetions, the judgment upon which the execution was issu-.J:..-.a
ed shall remain good against the property of the defendant, and a new
eucution may be iuued thereon against hia property, in like mamler
• if he had not been imprisoned ... 
SEC. 8. No female shall be arrelted or imprisoned, upon any exe- 
cutioo illued &om a justice's court. 
SEC. 9. If a constable neglect to return an execution, within five 
days after the return day thereof, the party in whOle favor the same 
WII issued, may maintain an action of debt against such constable, 
and lball recover therein the amount of the execution, with interest 
from the time of the rendition of the judgment upon which the same 
was illued ; and if a judgment be obtained in such mit against the 
CODltable, execution shall immediately iaue thereon." 
SEC. 0. A constable shall not be liable, under the preceding section, 
• not aening and returning an execution, upon which the defendant's
exemption s11all have been endorsed, if he duly collect and return the 
IIMlley payable by instalments, or return the execution as to penon 
and property not found."' 
SEC. 1. A constable shall not levy upon or sell any property, or
unprilon a defendant, upon any execution, after the time limited there- 
in b its return; unless such execution shall have been renewed. 
Nor lball any constable do any act under a renewed execution, after 
tbe expiration of the time, or times, for which the same may have 
been renewed.18 
I 16!. The last section shall not apply to executions upon which 
J>roCeedings are stayed by an endorsement of the defendant's exemp­ 
tion, on the payment of monthly instalments; but such execution may 
be collected as herein before provided. 
68 
SEC. 8. l{moni,a be tollected by 8 ... ble.,.. 8D executim, 
BM paid over by him according to law, an action of BNP1mplit ay 
be maintained by the paty atitlecl to ~ moaey, in u own 11119, 
upon the instrument of aeeurity given by such constable and bis IIU'e- 
t*', punuaDt te the provisions of the eeeond Article of the third Title 
of die eleventb Cbapter of the First Part of the Reviled Statutes; 
&Ad in aucJ. suit, the amount eo collected, with interelt from the time 
of collection, ua1l be recovered. Execution aball be immediately
issued upon the judgmem in auch suit. 
· ., 164, Whenever a transcript of a judgment in a justice's court, 
~rr:" shall have been filed and docketed by the clerk of the county, all exe­
cutions thereon all be iaued by such clerk, under the seal of the 
¢OW't of common pleas of the county; and the power and authority of 
the juatice, in respect to such judgment, shall cease. 
69 
SEC. 6. No 1Uch execution aball be isaued by a count- clerk, until 
tbe expiration of 11inetJ days after the time when the judgmeat wu 
rendered." 
SEC. 6. The court of common pleu oC the county•eball have the
same power to amend every such execution, and to control the IIJD8 
in all respects, with the like authority as if it had been iaued upon a 
judgment rendered in such court. 
SEC. 7. Whenever an execution shall .be issued by a county clerk,
upon a justice's judgment, it shall be.in the same form, as near u may 
be, as executions in the court of common pleas, against .. the goods and
chattels, lands and tenements, of the person against whom the judg·
ment shall baTe been obtained ; and in addition thereto, it shall com·
mand the sheriff, for want of goods and chattels, lands or tenements, 
to satisfy such execution, to take the body of the defendant, aod com­
mit him to the jail of the county, there to remain until discharged by 
due course of law; and to make return of his proceedings thereon to 
the clerk of the county, within ninety days from the date thereof. It
shall be tested in the name of the first or senior judge of the court of 
common pleas, and be signed· by the clerk."
SEC. 8. The same proceedings may be had to compel a return of 
•3 
• b 
every such execution, and the payment of any money collected 1 
virtue thereof, by rule and attachment against the sheriff, as if the
same bad issued out of the court of common pleas of the county. 
SEC. 9. The following property when owned by any person being
a householder, shall be exempt from levy and sale, under any exeeu-
tion, and such articles thereof as are moveable, shall continue so ex·
empt, while the family of such person, or any of them, may be remov·
ing from one place of reaidence to another: 
1. All spinning-wheels, weaTing-looms and stove1, put up or kept
for use by the family: 
s.. flle &mily bible, family pietares and lldaool baob, Ulld. by or 
in die Junily of l1ICh penon; and boob not eueecJing in value fiftJ 
dGIJm, wJaidl are kept and Ul8d u part of tlae family library:
a. A aeat or pew occupied by BUCh pel'IOD or his family, in any 
hollla or place of public worship:
... All lbeep to tlae number of ten, with their fleeces, and the yare// 
ar do&h IIIIDumctured hm the 111De ; one caw, two swine,. the mi- 
tMmT »ocl i>r them; all Dee881ary pork, beef, fish, Sour Yd vegeta-
ble,, ICtllally provided for family 088, and aece•ry fuel fer the 1188 
of tbe iunily i>r m.ty days: 
,. All neceaary wearing apparel, beds, bedsteads 8DII beddi.llg, for
Adi penon and his J'amily; arms and accoutrements, required by law 
to be bpt by such peraon; neceuary cooking utensils; one table
six rain; six knives and forb; six plates; six teacups and sau­
cn; one npr-diah; oae milk-pot; one tea-pot and six spoons; one 
cnne and its appendages; one pair of andirons, and a shovel and
tongs: . 
s, The tools and implements of any mechanic, necessary to the
carrying on oC his trade; but the amount thereof shall not exceed 
twenty-five dollars in nlue. ,o 
A.BTIOLID TDTB. 
0/lie .leMONl of Qsu,e, to tie Courl of Common PletD, by
Cerliorari. 
lk ltl. a.... wlddl-, .. ...,,. ha-- pleu. 
m . .tiida'rittobe-"; mcc.at.eld.l. 
ft 'Wlaaand to wbom to be prueated; wlaea certionri to he allowed. 
111 • n• .. to ... aee.W j its pmaltJ and eolldiaon.
SEC. 1. c.tiond •• to be ...,eel; ,..,.,. m fee to uoca,puy iL 
M JtrocMClillp on judgmeat ltayed b7 certiorari. 
n& c.tiond, boDd, •o. to N ile4 witla ooaty clerk.
l'2t. ca... phu-, ecmpel ntarn, or ita Ul!enc!maat 
SEC. 7. Wlm ud llowntan to be made; to be &led; ita oo.tat,. 
................ "'°"Pt• to ........
llll. ea.au.. pleu bow to ucide; tuu power; aecatiou, •e. 
a ee.t., lunr awudecl iD dilenat cue, . 
... Amoa& tMMol; eoDNl re.. 
Jk a...a. OD Wmob~ D0t to N renr,ed. 
a .BeltibdiGD •• to be awanled; prooe aeee1...,.. 
SEC. 0. In all cases of judgments rendered before a justice of the 
peace, where the debt or damages recovered shall not exceed twenty- 
five dollars, exclttsiYe of costs, and in all cases where issue was not 
joined before the justice, either party thinking himself aggrieved by 
such judpient, may remove the same by writ of certiorari, to the
court of common pleu of the county where the judgment was ren- 
dered. 
SEC. 1. The party intending to apply for SUCh certiorari, shall make,
or cauae to be made, an affidavit, aettiDg forth the substance oC the 
testimony and proceedings berore the jUltice, and the grounds upoo
which an allegation of error is founded. 
, 1 '7!. Such affidavit· shall, within twenty days after rendering
such judgment, be presented to the fint judge of the county courts 
where the judgment was rendered, or to some other judge or officer
authoriaed to perform the duties of a justice of the supreme court at
chamben ; and if BUCh judge or officer shall be atisfied that any er­
ror affecting the merits of the controveny, has been committed by the 
justice or jury, in the proceedingl, verdict or judgment, he shall al­
low the certiorari by endorsing his allowance thereon. 
J t 7S. The party obtaining such certiorari, shall execute to the
opposite party, a bond, with one or more sufficient sureties to be ap­
proved by the justice who rendered the judgment, or the judge who
allowed the certiorari, in a penalty of fifty dollars, if the judgment
was rendered against him, conditioned that if such judgment be affirm­
ed, such party will pay the same, together with all such COits, u shall
be awarded against him, on such affirmance. 
SEC. 4. If the judgment was in favor of the party applying for such 
certiorari, then such bond shall be in a penalty of at least twenty-five 
dollars, conditioned to pay such costs as shall be awarded against
him on such aflirmance. 
SEC. 5. The certiorari ao allowed, shall be served within ten days
after its allowance, upon the justice by whom the judgment wu ren- 
dered, together with the aftidaTit on which the same waa allowed, and
the bond made pursuant to the foregoing provisions ; and the sum of
two dollars shall be paid to the justice for his fees, for making a re­
tum to the certiorari ; and no certiorari ahall be of any effect, until 
all the preceding requisitions shall have been complied with.
SEC. 6. If the certiorari, bond and affidavit shall be served on the 
justice, before an execution shall be issued, it shall stay the issuing of
the same; and if the execution shall have been issued, but not collect· 
ed, the justice shall grant the party requiring it, a certificate of the is­ 
suing of such certiorari, which on being served on the officer in wh<* 
SEC. 7. The justice, before the return day of such certiorari, or 
hands the execution may ho, shall suspend such execution. 
within ten days after the service of such certiorari, shall make return
thereto in writing, and file the same; in which return he shall truly
and fully answer to all the facts set forth in the affidavit on which the 
certiorari was allowed. 
SEC. 8. The justice shall cause the certioran,· the affidavit on which 
the same was allowed, the bond served upon him, and his return to 
such certiorari, to be filed in the office of the clerk of the county where
such judgment was rendered, and shall pay the clerk, for filing the
ame twelve cents. 
SEC. 9. The court of common pleas shall have power to compel
such justice to make or amend such return, by rule, attachment or 
mandamua as the case may require. 
, 
SEC. 0. When such certiorari, affidavit, bond, and return shall-be 
• 
so filed with such clerk, the cause may be brought on to argument,/
be'1re the judges of the court of common pleas of such county, at any 
time thereafter, on the notice of either party, without any assignment
or joinder in error, and without furnishing the judges with any other
copy or copies of the affidavit, certiorari and return, than those so
filed with the clerk ; which papers shall be brought into court, for the 
use of the court and the parties, on the notice of either party. 
SEC. 1. The judges of such court of common pleas shall proceed and
give judgment in the cause, as the right of the matter may appear,
without regarding technical omissions, imperfections or defects in the 
proceedings before the justice, which did not affect the merits ; and 
may affirm or reverse the judgment, in whole or in part, and may is- 
sue execution as upon other judgments rendered before them.
SEC. 2. If the judgment be affirmed, costs shall be awarded to the 
deindant in error; if it be reversed, costs shall be awarded to the
plaintiff in error; if judgment be affirmed in part, the costs, or such 
part as to the court shall seem just, may be awarded to either party.
, 18S. The costs to be taxed, shall be common pleas costs only, 
exoept that a counsel fee of five dollars may be taxed, for arguing the
cauae before the court of common pleas; but no more than twenty-five
dollars costs shall be taxed against either party. 
SEC. 4. No judgment shall be reversed, merely for the omission or
. , th f I'. h , . 
m1srecital of any oa , nor on account o any iees av1Dg been 1mpro-
perly allowed by a justice. 
SEC. 6. If a judgment rendered before a justice be collected, and af-
lenrards be reversed, the court of common pleas shall award restitu- 
tioa of the amount so collected, with interest from the time of collec-
tion. To justif 1 such award, the party claiming it, shall present an 
aidavit of the fact of such collection having been made, to the court,
at the argument of the cause, and shall serve a copy of such affidavit 
on the adveree party, at the time of giving notice of such argument. 
ABTIOLE ELEVENTH. 
SEC. 8. 
SEC. 6. Caaee in which appeala to common pleu may be made. 
SEC. 7. Af&dayit to be made; when ud to whom to be preaentecl.
SEC. 8. la wW ~ allo,nnce of appeal to be endoned. 
SEC. 9. Boad to be executed by appellaDt; it. Corm. 
SEC. 0. Cotta uc1 ree to be paid to jutice.
Ill. &ad, k. to be Nffed, and Cee, ate. to be paid, in ao days after j11dgment­
SEC. 1. El'eet of appeal in 1apeneding u:ecation, &e. 
19.&. lletvD when to be made; it. content.. 
l9G. B.etv., with certain papen, to be 61ed with cOGDty clerk. 
SEC. 8. Proceedings to compel return to appeal. 
SEC. 9. Conrt may compel amendment of return.
200, Pnwer of court on return of attachment.
SEC. 1. When court po11e11ed of cause; when proceedings may be compelled.
20'J. Notices of trial; of motion to dismiss appeal. 
SEC. 8. Motions to di1mi11 appeal not to be heard in certain cue,.
20,&. Not to be granted in certain cue; bond of appellant may be amended, &c. 
SEC. 5. Not to be dismissed for not paying fees, &c.
SEC. 6. Coats on diami11ing appeal, and bow collected.
SEC. 7. When to be discontinued for want of prosecution. 
SEC. 9. Proceeding by juaticc on appeal being dismiseed, &c. 
SEC. 9. Execution to be returned before suit on appeal bond.
SEC. 0. Cause, when to be beard by court; when to be tried by jwy.
SEC. 2. Proceedings if i11ue below was an issue of law. 
SEC. 3. Proceedings to try issue of fact.
SEC. 4. l11ue offact before juatice only, to be tried; exception,.
SEC. 5. When proof of demand, set-off, &c. overruled, may be given.
SEC. 6. I11aes to be tried or referred; nnire not necessary. 
SEC. 7. Jwlgment on verdict or report of reCereea,
SEC. 8. Costa to be awarded to prevailing party; exceptions, &c. 
SEC. 9. Certain di,bunementa, &c. to be allowed appellant in hia coat..
~. Cotta may be ,et otf against damage a. 
2'll. Executions upon judgment, on appeals. 
SEC. 2. To be aued out by appellee in SO days after judgment. 
m. Sllit on appeal bond, if execution be unaati1fied. 
n&. lb. in cues where appeal wu dismissed, &c. 
125, Sllita not to be bro\lght until execution returned.
SEC. 6. lo what cues bond of appellant to be cancelled,
SEC. 1. Courts to regulate practice on appeals, 
SEC. 6. Any party to a judgment rendered by a justice of the peace, 
where the recovery shall exceed twenty-five dollars, exclusive of
costs, conceiving himself aggrieved thereby, may appeal therefrom to 
the court of common pleas of the county where the same was render­
ed, in the following cases : 
1. Where the judgment was rendered upon an issue of law joined
between the parties: 
2. Where it was rendered upon an issue of fact joined between the 
parties, whether the defendant was present at the trial or not. 
SEC. 7. Within ten days after the rendering of a judgment, the party
intending to appeal therefrom, shall present to one of the justices of
the supreme court, or to some officer authorised to execute the duties 
of such justice in vacation, or to the first or senior judge of the county
courts of the county, an affidavit, setting forth the testimony and pro­ 
ceedings before the justice, and the grounds upon which an allegation
of error it11 founded, or upon which a new- trial is claimed.s! 
SEC. 8. If such justice, judge or officer, be satisfied by such affi- 
davit, 
1. That any error affecting the merits of the cause, has been com­
mitted, either by the justice or the jury: or, 
2. That any witness or testimony, material to the controversy,
could not be produced on the trial before the justice, where due dili­
gence shall have been used to obtain the "same, and that no adjourn­ 
ment by reason thereof could be procured : or, 
61 
a. That since the trial, the party desiring to appeal, has discovered
new testimony, unknown to him before the trial, on some point ma-
terial to the cause, which was not urged on the trial : and, 
4. That for either of the above reasons, it is necessary for the at­
tainment of justice, that a new trial should be had : 
He shall endorse an allowance of such appeal on the affidavit pre­ 
sented to him. 
62 
SEC. 9. The appellant shall also, at the time of serving the affi-
davit and allowance of appeal, deliver to the justice a bond, in con- 
formity to the following provisions : 
1. It shall be in a penalty of at least one hundred dollars: 
2. It shall recite the judgment, so as to exhibit the names of all the
parties, the character in which they prosecuted or defended before the 
justice, the amount recovered, and the name of the justice: 
a. It shall contain a condition, that the appellant will prosecute his
appeal with all due diligence, to a decision in the court of common 
pleas ; and that if a judgment be rendered against him in such court,
he will pay the amount oi such judgment, including the costs of the
appeal, with interest thereon, within thirty days after such judgment 
rendered; or if his appeal shall be discontinued or dismissed, that he 
will pay the judgment recovered against him before the justice, and
interest thereon, together with the costs of the appeal: 
4. It shall be executed by the appellant, with one or more sufficient 
sureties, or by two or more sufficient sureties without the appellant;
which sufficiency shall be certified by the justice on the bond. 
SEC. 0. The appellant shall also, at the time of serving the allow- 
r
h
. h f h . d h 
ance o appeal, pay to t e justice t e costs o t e suit, an t e sum of
seventy-five cents, for making and filing his return. 
62 
02 
SEC. 1. No appeal shall be valid, or have any effect, unless wit~Whe::J.pe•I 
thirty days after the rendition of the judgment, the party intending to
appeal, shall serve the affidavit and allowance of appeal, deliver a 
bond, and pay the costs and fee, as herein before directed. 
SEC. 2. Upon an appeal being made according to the foregoing pro- 
visions, all further proceedings on the judgment before the justice shall 
be superseded ; and if in the mean time, execution shall have been 
i~ed, the justice shall give to the appellant, a certificate that an ap- 
peal in the cause has been duly made. 
62 
SEC. 3. On such certificate being presented to the constable hold- 
ing the execution, he shall forthwith release the goods and chattels, 
or the body, of the· appellant, which may have been taken ; and if
the appellant shall have been committed to prison, the jailer, upon
1ervice of the like certificate upon him, shall release the appellant 
from imprisonment. 
62 
82 
SEC. 4. Within ten days after any appeal shall have been duly made,
the justice shall make a return of the proceedings had before him, to 
the court of common pleas of the county, in which shall be stated, 
1. The title of the cause, and the character in which the parties 
prosecuted or defended before him: 
.s. The demand of the plaintiff, and if his declaration was in writ· 
ing, a copy thereof shall be set forth : 
s. The plea of the defendant, and the notice of set-oft" given by 
him, if any ; and if the same were in writing, a copy to be set forth : 
,. Any other proceedings of the parties, upon which an issue was 
formed, and the issue joined between them : 
6. If the trial was by jury, the names of the jurors, and their ver­
diet: 
e, The judgment rendered thereon, and the time of rendering the
ame: and, 
7. The time when the affidavit, allowance of appeal and bond here­
in before required, were served, and the costs and fees of the justice
were paid. 
81 
SEC. 5. Within ten days after the appeal was duly made, the justice
shall file in the office of the clerk of the court of common pleas of the 
county, his return, made as above directed ; together with all papers
filed with him by either party, relating to the cause; and the original 
affidavit served on him, with the allowance of appeal endorsed there­
on; and the bond delivered to him, by or on behalf of the appellant. e, 
SEC. 6. If a return shall not be made by a justice, according to 
law, the appellant, upon filing an affidavit with the clerk of the county 
of bis having' served an affidavit, with the allowance of appeal thereon,
delivered a bond, and paid the costs of the suit, with the fee of the 
justice, as herein before prescribed, may enter a rule in the minutes
"of the common pleas, in vacation or in term, requiring the justice to 
make such return within ten days after the notice of such rule, or
show cause to the court, on the first day of the next term thereafter, 
why an attachment should not be issued against him. 
SEC. 7. If the justice shall fail to make a return, according to law,
the appellee, upon filing with the clerk of the county an affidavit that
an appeal has been duly made, or that the justice refuses to proceed 
in the cause, on the ground that an appeal has been made, may enter
the like rule in the minutes of the court of common pleas, in vacation 
or during term. 
SEC. 8. The court of common pleas of the county, upon evidence
beiug given that an appeal has been duly made, may, by rule and at· 
tachment, compel a return by the justice of his proceedings, and of the
papers required to be returned by him during the same term, or at 
8 
aubsequent time; and if a rule shall have been entered requiring such
return, as herein before authorised, and shall have been served ten~ 
days before the first day of the term, the court shall issue an attach-
ment against such delinquent justice, unless good cause to the contrary 
be shown by him. 
SEC. 9. Upon satisfactory evidence that the. return of a justice is 
substantially erroneous or defective, the court may compel him to
amend the same. 
64 
SEC. 0. Upon an attachment being issued against a justice, pursuant 
to either of the foregoing sections, the court may punish the disobe-
dience of the justice, by imprisonment until he submit, and may ad- 
judge that he pay the costs of the proceedings against him ; and such
order shall be enforced as other orders of the court. 
SEC. 1. Upon the return of the justice being filed, the court of com- 
mon pleas shall be possessed of the cause, and shall cause the parties
to proceed therein with all due diligence ; bat no proceeding shall be
compelled at' any term, unless the return of the justice shall have been
filed at least ten days before the first day of such term.64 
SEC. 2. If the return of the justice be filed, the appellant may serve
notice of trial for the next term of the court, eight days before the 
first day of such term; and the appellee may in like manner, serve
such notice of trial ; and he may give the like notice of a motion to
dismiss the appeal, or he may give either notice. 
SEC. 3. No motion to dismiss an appeal shall be heard, unless no- 
, 
tice thereof, specifying the grounds of such motion shall have been
given, or some reasonable and satisfactory excuse for not having giv-
en such notice, be allowed by the court ; and no such motion shall be 
beard after the first term at which the same might have been made.
SEC. 4. No appeal shall be dismissed, on account of any informality 
or other imperfection in the bond executed by or in behalf of the ap-
pellant, if he and his sureties consent to amend the same, or if anoth- 
er sufficient bond, to be approved by the court, shall be filed. And in
.such case, the court shall amend or receive such bond accordingly. 
SEC. 5. Nor shall any appeal be dismissed, on the ground that the
f th 
• th t':. f h • • h be id
costs o e suit, or e tee o t e justice, ave not en pa1 ; nor upon 
any other ground than such as shall have been expressed in the no-
tice. But in all cases, the fact of a return having been made by a 
justice, shall be conclusive evidence of such costs and fees having 
been paid.
SEC. 6. If an appeal be dismissed, the court shall award costs to the 
appellee, and may enforce the payment of the same by rule and at-
tachment. 
SEC. 7. If an appeal be not prosecuted within such time as the court
shall by its general rules have prescribed, the court shall order the 
same to be discontinued, with costs. 
SEC. 8. Upon an appeal being dismissed or discontinued, and a
certified copy of the order of dismissal or discontinuance, being serv- 
ed upon the justice who rendered the judgment, he shall proceed there­
on as if no appeal had been entered. 
SEC. 9. The appellee in whose favor a judgment shall have been
rendered, shall not be entitled to prosecute the bond given on an ap-
peal which shall have been dismissed or discontinued, until an exe­
cution on the judgment appealed from, shall have been returned that
sufficient goods and chattels of such defendant cannot be found to sa­
tisfy the same. 
SEC. 0. If the appeal be not dismissed, the court shall proceed to the
hearing of the cause, if the issue joined before the justice was an is­ 
sue of law; or to the trial thereof by jury, if such issue was upon a
question of fact. 
68 
SEC. 1. If the issue joined before the justice was an issue of law, the
court shall render judgment thereon, according to the law of the case ;
and if such judgment be against the pleading of either party, an amend­
ment of such pleading may be allowed, on the same terms, and in the
like cases, as in pleadings in suits originally commenced in such court;
and the court may thereupon require the opposite party to answer
such amended pleading, or to join issue thereon, as the case may re­ 
quire, summarily.
SEC. 2. If, upon an appeal on an issue of law, the court should ad­ 
judge the pleading complained of, to be valid, it shall in like manner
require the opposite party summarily to answer such pleading, or to 
join issue thereon, as the case may require.
SEC. 8. Upon an issue of fact being so joined, the court shall pro­ 
ceed to have the same tried by a jury, in the same manner as other is­
sues joined in such court. 
SEC. 4. If the issue joined before the justice, was an issue of fact,
such issue, and no other, shall be tried by a jury, by the court of com- 
mon pleas; and no declaration or other pleading shall be allowed in
the cause, except as herein before provided, unless some demand of 
the plaintiff, or some defence or set-off of the defendant, shall have
been overruled by the justice, and the party shall have been prevent­
ed by the justice from going into proof thereof. 
66 
SEC. 5. If the court be satisfied that error was committed by the
justice in overruling such demand, defence or set-off, it may allow
proof of the same to be given on the trial, as if issue had been joined 
thereon before the justice. 
SEC. 6. Every issue of fact so joined or brought up, on appeal, shall
be tried by a jury, or referred in the same mannner as if the same had~ 
been joined in a suit originally commenced in the court of common
p.leaa; but no "enire, or other jury process, shall be necessary. 
SEC. 7. The court shall have the same power over the verdict of!=l:•:;:,~
the jury, or the report of the referees, and shall render judgment there- 
on in the same manner, as in other suits in such court.
SEC. 8. Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party, in judgments 
• • • , 
rendered on appeal, m all cases, with the followmg exceptions and
limitations : 
1. If the defendant, against whom judgment is rendered before the
justice, appeal, and judgment thereon be rendered in his favor, or the 
amnunt recovered before the justice be reduced ten dollars, or more,
full costs shall be awarded to the appellant : 
SEC. 2. If a defendant in whose favor a judgment is rendered before the 
justice, shall appeal, and he shall not recover at least five dollars, more 
than the amount recovered before the justice, full costs shall be award­
ed to the appellee : 
3. If the plaintiff, in whose favor judgment is rendered before the 
justice, appeal, and he shall not recover at least five dollars more than
the amount recovered before the justice, full costs shall be awarded to 
the appellee : • 
4. In all other cases, the party recovering any sum, shall be enti­
tled to costs. es 
SEC. 9. Whenever costs are awarded to the appellant, he shall be
allowed to tax, as part thereof, the costs and fee paid to the justice on 
making the appeal, as disbursements, in addition to the costs in the
common pleas ; and where the judgment in the suit before the justice 
~as against such appellant, he shall further be allowed to tax the costs
incurred by him which he would have been entitled to recover, in 
case the judgment below had been rendered in his favor. 
69 
SEC. 0. If, upon an appeal, a recovery for any debt or damages be 
had by one party, and costs be awarded to the other party, the court::"
shall set off' such costs against such debt or damages, and render judg- 
nient for the balance.
SEC. 1. Upon a judgment being rendered on an appeal, ( except in 
C8aea where the appeal has been dismissed or discontinued before 
trial,) the party recovering the same shall be entitled to execution
thereon, in the like manner as if such judgment had been rendered in
a suit originally commenced in a court of common pleas. 
SEC. 2. If the judgment be rendered in favor of the appellee, he 
sh
all sue out execution thereon, within thirty days after the term 
'When such judgment was rendered, or the sureties in the appeal bond
shall be discharged. 
69 
67 
~ 2!S. Upon such execution being returned unsatisfied, in whole
or in part, the appellee may commence an action on the bond given 
by or for the appellant, and may recover therein, as damages, the
amount remaining due and unsatisfied on such execution, with interest
from the time of the rendering of the judgment, '70 
SEC. 4. When an appeal shall have been dismissed, or diecontinued
before trial, and an execution shall have been issued on the original
judgment, and returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the party in
whose favor such execution was issued, may commence an action on 
the bond given by or for the appellant, and may recover therein, as
damages, the amount remaining due and unsatisfied on such execu­
tion, with interest from the time of rendering judgment by the justice, 
together with the costs incurred in the proceedings. 
SEC. 5. No action shall be brought on any bond given by or on be-
half of. the appellant, until an execution shall have been issued against 
him, and returned, as herein before provided. ,o 
SEC. 6. If judgment on an appeal be rendered in favor of the appel- 
• 
lant, or if there be no sum, balance or costs found due to the appellee, 
the court shall order the bond of the appellant to be cancelled and de­
livered up.'1 
SEC. 7. The several courts of common pleas may, from time to
time, adopt such rules to regulate the practice in relation to appeals, 
in their respective courts, as they may deem expedient to carry the
foregoing provisions into effect ; and by such rules may authorise the
entry of judgment of non-suit or dikontinuance against the appellant,
when he shall not prosecute his appeal to effect, according to such 
rules and the practice of the court. '1 
AllTlOLE TWELFTH. 
Of tle Fee, of Officer8, and of Witnesses and Jurors,for &n,ices 
tmder this Title. 
SEC. 8. Feee for aemcea wider thia Title.
SEC. 9. FeM to aheriffii on executions upon juaticea' judgmettll.
SEC. 0. Party of whom fees wrongfully collected, may reconr them. 
SEC. 8. For ~rvices rendered, pursuant to the provisions of this 
Title, the following fees shall be allowed : 
To the Judge or other Ojftcer, to whom .Application for l°M .Al·
lotoance of an .Appeal or Certiorari ,hall be made, 
Fifty cents for the hearing of such application, whether the same
be granted or not. 
To the JU8tice, 
For a summons, nine cents ;
For a warrant, twelve and a half cents ; 
For an attachment orexecation, nineteen cents ;
For every adjournment, except such as shall be made by the ju- 
tice, without the motion of either party, nine cents ; .
For a spbp<BDB, aix cents ;
For administering any oath, six cents ;
For filing every paper required to 'be filed with him, three cents; 
but no fee shall be allowed for filing any written declaration, plea or
other written pleading, or for filing any process issued in any cause; 
For a t,,mif"e, nineteen cents; ·
For swearing a jury, twelve and a half cents ;" 
For entering a judgment,· twenfy-five cents;
For a transcript of a judgment, twenty-five cents; 
For every bond or other written security, directed to be taken by 
any of the provisions of this Title, if drafted by the justice, twenty-five
cents; 
For making a return upon an appeal, seventy-five cents. 
'l'o Witneuu,
From the same county, subpoenaed and attending, twelve and a half 
cents; from any other place than the same county, twenty-five cents 
• every day 'a actual attendance. 
For serving a warrant or summons, twelve and a half cents;
For a copy of every summons delivered on request, or left at the 
dwelling of the defendant in hit absence, nine cents;
For aerving an attachment, fifty cents ; for a copy thereof, and of 
the inventory of the_ property seized, left at the last residence of the
defendant, fifty cents; 
For ee"ing an execution, five cents for every dollar collected, to
the amount of fifty dollars, and two and a half cents for every dollar 
collected over fifty dollars; 
To Constables. 
For every mile going only, more than one mile, when ae"ing a 
summons, warrant, attachment or execution, six cents; to be com­ 
puted &om the place of abode of the defendant, or where he shall be 
found, to the place where the precept is returnable ;
For notifying a plaintiff of the service of a warrant, twelve and a 
half cents; and for going to the plaintiff's residence, Qr where such 
notice waa served, six cents for every mile more than one ; 
Summoning a jury, fifty cents. 
To Jurors. 
For attending to ser,e u such, although not sworn, sbt c:enti each
For attending and trying a cause, twelve and a half cents each ; 
To a CODltable or other penon, (or aerving a subpcena, twelve and=~
a bale cents for each '\fitness served ; but no allowance shall be made 
In any judgment, for service upon more than four witneases, in any
~cause.72 
SEC. 9. The same fees, and no others, shall be allowed to sheriffs,
for serving executions issued by the clerk of the court of common
pleas, upon the judgment of a justice, as are herein allowed to consta­ 
bles in the like cases. 1a 
~ 2SO. If judgment be rendered by any justice, for a greater amount 
of costs than is allowed by law, or fur any item of costs or fees, im­
properly, and the Fame be collected, the person paying the same, 
may, notwithstanding such judgment, recover of the party who shall
have received such costs or fees, the amount thereof, with interest. 
ARTICLE THIRTEENTH. 
General Provisions concerning JU1Jtices' Courts, and Proceed­
ings therein. 
Seo. 231, Thia Title to apply to justices' courts in Albany, Hudson and Troy; but not in
New-York. 
m. Proce11 to be aigned by justice; may be aealed or not. 
m. Certain procea, to be entirely tilled up, and to have 110 blank. 
es.a. Con.tables not to take rewards for certain acts. 
SEC. 5. Ju1tice11,11d conatablea not to buy, &c. aecurities for pro,ecution. 
SEC. 6. Penalty for violating lut section. 
SEC. 7. Defendant may plead, &c. ,uch violation in bar. 
DS. PlaiotiJfmay be required to attend trial. 
SEC. 9. Proceeding, if plaintiff' do not attend. 
SEC. 0. Plaintiff', &c. may be examined by defendant on trial.
!ii. In what cue, plaintiff' to be non-suited. 
SEC. 2. Evidence of plain~ &c. not to be used on criminal prosecution. 
SEC. 3. Justice, to keep boob; entriea to be !Ude therein. 
zu. Such entriea to be made in each cau1e, &c. 
SEC. 5. Docket of a juatice or transcript, evidence before him. 
SEC. 1. Traucripta ofjuatice,' proceedinga, &c. how verified and when erideace.
MS. Other mode, of proring proceedings before ju,tices. 
SEC. 9. Power of juaticea to take affidavits. 
SEC. 0. Juatices to file and preserre affldavita and papers.
SEC. 1. To keep indexeti to docket boob j what to contain. .
SEC. 2. Juatice removing from town, to deposit papen with town clerk. 
SEC. 3. On removal from office, to deliver boob, &c. to town clerk. 
t.5-&. Certificate to be entered in boob delivered to town olerk. 
SEC. 6. On death or vacancy in office of justice,,town clerk to demand papen. 
SEC. 6. Proceedings to compel delivery of papen, &c. to town clerk.
SEC. 7. Entriea in booka delinred to clerk, how far erideoce .. 
SEC. 8. Powers of ju,ticea after expiration of term, of office. 
SEC. 9. Penalty for not paying over money collected by a justice. 
SEC. 0. Justicea out of office to mllke retum to appeab, &c. 
SEC. 1. Affidavita, &c. to be received inatead of return to appeals,.in certain cuea.
m Aho, instead of return to certiorari. 
SEC. 8. Allowance of appeal, &c. may in ,ome cues be ,c"ed on county elem. 
SEC. 4. Notice of such 1e"ice to appellee, to render appeal valid. 
SEC. 5. When action of debt may be brought on juatice 's judgment. 
SEC. 6. Return by justice removed out of the county, may be compelled. 
SEC. 1. Proof of judgment when docket ia Io,t, &c.
SEC. 9. Proceedinga to remove from office coutable1 who ban neglected to pay 
over money collected.
SEC. 0. Office vacated by aenice of instrument d remonl.
SEC. 1. Juaticea may authorise printe pel'IOnl to execute certain proceu. 
m ~en ofpenonappointed; not receive any feea. 
Sac. 21S. o..teblutoact ia pel'IOII, u4 eenllOt hure a depllty.
!i'L Cuea in which jmtices may punish for criminal contempta. 
SEC. 5. Extent or pmrlahmenta for aucb contempta. 
SEC. 6. Party to Jae heud; wernnt may ia,n for him. 
SEC. 7. Record of eon'riction to be made up; ib contenta; to be filed.
SEC. 8. Commitmenta to set forth circUJD1tancea or off'ence. 
m. Witoeuea refuiag to be nro~ &cs. may be committed. ·
SEC. 0. Content, or wammt; prisoner bow and how lo»g to be comiaed. 
SEC. 1. Cause to be edjourned until witneu testify, &c. 
SEC. 1. The several provisions of this Title, so far as ·the same 
may be applicable, shall apply to the justices' courts in the cities of~'x':'
Albany, Hudson and Troy, respectively, except in those cases where
repugnant provisions exist in the acts organizing those courts, or re- 
lating thereto; but the provisions of this Title shall not be considered
as applicable to the courts in the city of New-York. 
SEC. 2. All process issued by any justice of the peace, shall be sign- 
ed by him, and may be under seal or without seal. 
SEC. 3. Every summons, warrant, attachment and execution issu-
eel by a justice of the peace, shall be entirely filled up, and shall have 
no blank either in the date or otherwise, at the time of its delivery
to an officer, to be executed. Every such process, · which shall be is-
sued and delivered to an officer to be executed, contrary to the fore-
going provision, shall be void. 
74 
SEC. 4. No constable shall ask, or receive any money or valuable 
thir.g from a defendant, or any other person, as a consideration, re-
ward or inducement, for omitting to arrest any defendant, or to carry
him before any justice; or for delaying to take any party to prison;
or for postponing the sale of any property, under any execution; or 
for omitting or delaying the· execution of any duty pertaining to his
officc."4 
SEC. 5. No justice of the peace or constable shall, directly or indi- 
b
• be • d • b • bo d th d d 
rectly, uy, or mtereste ID uymg any n , note or o er eman ,
or cause of action, for the purpose of commencing any suit thereon, 
before a justice, nor shall any justice or constable, either before or af- 
ter suit brought, lend or advance, or agree to lend or advance, or pro- 
cure to be lent or advanced, any money, or other valuable thing, to 
any person, in consideration of, or as a reward for, or inducement to,
the placing or having placed in the hands of such justice or constable, 
any debt, demand or cause of action whatever, for prosecution or col-
lection. 74 
SEC. 6. Every justice or constable offending against either of the
provisions of the three last sections, shall be deemed guilty of a mis­ 
demeanor, and on conviction, shall be subject to fine or imprisonment; 
or both, in the discretion of the court. Every such conviction shall
operate as a forfeiture of the office of the justice or constable, so con­ 
victed.'74 
SEC. 7. The defendant in any suit to be brought in any action rl 
debt, covenant or assumpsit, may give notice with bis plea, iB addi- 
tion to any other matter of defence, that on the trial of the came, he 
will insist and prove, that the demand on which such action is foand. 
ed, bas been bought and sold, or received, for proeecutioo, contrary to
law, without setting forth any other particulars. 
76 
SEC. 8. The defendant in any such suit, may serve a notice on the 
plaintiff" two days before the trial, requiring him to appear pel'IOD&lly 
on such trial, to be examined ; and it shall be the duty of the plaintif 
to attend such trial, for that purpose ; and in case of such attendance,
he shall be entitled to the like fees as are allowed by law to wit· 
nesses; but the plaintiff shall not be so summoned, nor required to 
attend the trial, to give evidence as aforesaid, except from the same 
county, or the county next adjoining that in which the cause is tried.'16 
SEC. 9. In case such plaintiff shall not attend such trial, he shall, 
on proof of the due service of such notice, be non-suited in such ac­ 
tion, unless such failure to attend shall be accounted for to the satis­ 
faction of the court; in which case the court may postpone the trial,
on the plaintiff's paying the costs of preparing for the triaL And if 
such plaintiff shall not attend at the time to which the trial shall be 
postponed, he shall be non-suited.75 • 
SEC. 0. On the trial of the cause in which such notice shall IJave 
been given, if the defendant shall require it, the plaintiff and his at­ 
torney, and any other person who may be interested in the recovery 
in such cause, shall be examined, on oath, touching the matters set 
forth in such notice.16 
SEC. 1. If any such plaintiff, so required to be examined, oriany
person, interested in the recovery of the suit, shall refuse to answer 
on oath, such questions as shall be pertinent to show a violation of the 
provisions of this Article; or if on such examination, it shall appear 
that the cause of action, on which such suit is founded,. has been 
bought or procured, contrary to the true intent of the provisions of 
this Article, the plaintiff in such action shall be non-suited. ff 
SEC. 2. No evidence derived from the examination of any such 
plaintiff or other person, shall be admitted in proof, on any criminal
proeecution against the party so examined, for violating any of the 
provisions of this Article.
75 
SEC. 8. Every justice of the peace shall keep a book, in whicli he 
shall enter, 
- 
a, The titles of all causes commenced before him : 
a. The time when the first process was issued against the defend· 
ant, and the particular process issued : 
· 
a. The time when the parties appeared before him, either without
process, or upon the return of process : . 
4. Where the pleadings are made orally, a concise statement of the
declaration of the plaintiff, the plea of the defendant, the further_ 
pleadings of the parties, if any, and the issue joined : 
6. Every adjournment, stating on whose motion, and to what time
and place: 
6. The issuing of a venire, stating ~t whose, request, and the time
and place of its return : 
7. The time when a trial was had, the names of the jurors return­
ed summoned, who did not appear, and the fines imposed on them, if 
any: 
a. The names of the jurors who appeared and of the jurors who
were sworn; the names of the witnesses swom at the request of ei­
ther party, stating at whose request; the objections, if any, made to 
the competency of a witness, and the decision thereon : 
t. The verdict of the jury, and when received :
to. The judgment rendered by the justice, and the time of render­ 
ing the same : 
SEC. 1. The time of issuing execution, and the name of the officer to 
whom delivered; and if issued upon the application of any party, be­
fore the time when the same should regularly issue, such fact shall be 
noted, and tile nature of the proof given : 
SEC. 2. The return of every execution, and when made ; and every re­ 
&ewal of an .execution made by him, with the date- of such renewal: 
u. The fact of his having given a transcript of the judgment, to be
&led in the clerk's office, and the time when the same was given : 
1,. The fact of a certiorari having been brought on any judgment
rendered by him, and the time of the service of the same : 
SEC. 5. The fact of an appeal having been made from any judgment
rendered by him, and the time when made. 
SEC. 4. The several items in the preceding section enumerated, 
shall be entered under the title of each cause to which they respective-
ly relate ; and in addition thereto, the justice may enter any other 
Proceeding had before him in such, cause, which he shall think it use-
ful to enter in such book. 
SEC. 5. Whenever it shall become necessary in an action before a
· ..: f th . id r . d th d 
J ce o e peace, to gave evi ence o a JU gment, or o er procee 
ing had before him, the docket of such judgment, or other proceeding, or
a transcript thereof, certified by him, shall be good evidence thereof 
hebe such justice. 
SEC. 6. A transcript from the docket of any justice of the peace, of 
any judgment had befure him ; of the proceedings in the cause previ-
oaa to such judgment ; of the execution issued thereon, if any; and....,.. 
or the- return to such execution, if any; when subscribed by such jus- 
tice, and verified in the manner prescribed . in the next· succeeding 
section, shall be evidence to prove the facts stated in such transcript. 
SEC. 7. To entitle such transcript to be read in evidence, except
before the same justice, there shall be attached thereto, or endorsed 
thereon, a certificate of the clerk of the county, in which such justice 
resides, under the seal of the court of common pleas of such county,
specifying that the person subscribing such transcript was, at the date
of the judgment therein mentioned, a justice of the peace of such 
county.'16 
SEC. 8. The proceedings in any cause, had before a justice, may 
also be proved by the oath of the justice. In case of his death or ab­ 
sence, they may be proved by producing the original minutes of such
proceedings, entered in a book kept by such justice, accompanied by 
proof of his hand-writing; or they may be proved by producing copies
of such minutes, sworn to by a competent witness, as having been
compared by him with the original entries, with proof that such en­
tries were in the hand-writing of the justice. 
SEC. 9. Whenever it shall be necessary to make use of an affidavit 
in any proceedings had before a justice of the peace, such justice shall
have power to administer an oath to the party making such affidavit. 
SEC. 0. Eve~y justice s~all carefully ~le and preserve all affidavits 
and papers delivered to him, to be filed m any cause. 
SEC. 1. Every justice shall keep an alpabetical index of all judg-
ed • hi d k b k • h f • di • I 
ments enter m 1s oc et- oo , m t e course o any JU icia pro- 
ceedings had before him. In such index shall· be inserted the names
of the parties to each judgment, and the page of his docket-book where 
such judgment is entered. 
SEC. 2. In case any justice shall remove out of the town in which
he was elected, before or after his term of office expires, he shall de·
posit with the town clerk of such town, all the books and papers in
the custody of such justice, relating to any cause or matter which 
shall have been heard by him, or relating to any proceeding or cause
which shall have been commenced before him. 
~ 25S. Whenever any justice shall be removed from office by the
county court, he shall, within ten days after receiving notice of such
removal, and upon the demand of the town clerk, deliver to such
clerk nil the books and papers in the custody of such justice, relating
to any cause or matter which shall have been heard by him, or relat·
ing to any proceeding or cause which shall have been commenced be­ 
fore him. 
SEC. 4. In every book of minutes delivered by any justice to the
town clerk, pursuant to the foregoing provisions, in which he shall 
have kept the docket of any judgments; he shall enter a certificate to 
70 
be sublCfibed by him stating that the judgments entered in such book,
were duly rendered as therein stated, and that the amounts appearing
by such book to be. due on such judgments respectively, have not been 
paid to his knowledge.
SEC. 5. In case any justice shall die, or his office shall in any way 
beco
d
books
bel
. h . . . 
me vacant, an any or papers ongmg to sue justice m 
L!- a: • • th h ds the 
uq owc1al capacity, shall come to e an of any person, town 
. 
clerk may demand and receive such books and papers, from the per-
son having the same in his possession. 
SEC. 6. If any books or papers, required by the preceding sections
to be delivered to the town clerk, be withheld, the 1ike proceedings 
may be had to compel the delivery of the same, as are provided in the
fifth Article of the sixth Title of the fifth Chapter of the First Part of 
the Revised Statutes.
SEC. 7. The entries contained in the book of minutes kept by any 
. • d b hi d I" red the I k sh II · 11 be
Jostice, an y un e ive to c er , a m a cases pre- 
sumptive evidence of the facts stated in such entries, but may be re­
pelled by contrary proof. 
SEC. 8. Any justice before whom any judgments shall have been
entered, and whose tenn of office shall have expired, may issue or re- 
new executions on any such judgment, at any time within six months
after the expiration of his said office. 
SEC. 9. If any money shall hue been collected for any party, by a
jllltice of the peace in his official capacity, and he shall have neglected 
or refused, within a reasonable time after demand, to pay over the
same, such neglect or refusal shall be deemed a misdemeanor, and on
conviction th~reof, such justice shall forfeit ~is office. 
SEC. 0. Whenever a certiorari or appeal shall be duly brought and
ed 
. . fte h h 11 h r offi
serv upon a justice, a r e s a ave gone out o ce, upon a 
• dgm d d b hi hil • ffi .h • • h II ak 
JU ent ren ere y im w 1 st m o ce, sue . Justice s a m e
return to such certiorari or appeal, in like manner, and with the like 
e&ct, as if such certiorari or appeal had been served whilst be was in
office. 
SEC. 1. If an appeal be made upon a judgment rendered by a jus-
ti h h If di be • , f h b- 
ee w o s a re, come insane, remove out o t e state, or a 
. scond, so that a return cannot be compelled, the court to which such
appeal shall be made, may receive the affidavits of witnesses and of 
the partieB, to the facts and circumstances of the proceedings, and of 
the judgment upon which the appeal is made ; and shall proceed there-
on in the same manner, as if such facts had been returned by the jus- 
tice hetore whom the judgment was rendered. 
SEC. 2. If a justice to whom a certiorari shall be directed, be dead, 
insane, or out of the state, so that a return can not be compelled, the
court may receive the affidavits of witnesses and of the parties, to the 
Jacts and circumstances of the trial or judgment upon which the Cflt'­ 
is brought, and shall proceed thereon in the same manner u if
such facta had been returned by the justice. 
SEC. 8. If a justice before whom a judgment shall have been nm­ 
dered, shall die, become insane, remove out of the state, or abecond, 
10 that the affidavit, allowance of appeal and bond required by law to 
be served on such justice, can not be served, the appellant may file
such affidavit, allowance and bond, with the county clerk, who ahall
be authorised to approve the sureties in such bond, in the same man­
ner as.such justice might have done. 
SEC. 4. Upon serving a notice of the filing of such affidavit, allow­
ance and bond, with the county clerk, upon the appellee, within the 
SEC. 5. If a justice, after having rendered judgment in any cauae,
shall die, become insane, remove out of the state, abscond or other- 
time allowed by law for making an appeal, the same aball be as valid
and effectual as an appeal, in all respects, as if the ame had been
served on such justice. 
1 
wise vacate his office, before issuing execution on such judgment, an
action of debt may be maintained thereon, in which the original dock­ 
et of such judgment kept by such justice, shall be presumptive evi­
dence of the facts therein stated, but it shall be liable to be repelled 
by contrary proof. . . 
SEC. 6. If a justice before whom a judgment shall have been reoder­ 
eel, shall remove out of the county, the court of common pleas of the
county, upon proof of the facts, may by mandamua compel a return 
to a certiorari or appeal brought upon such judgment. 
SEC. 7. If in any action upon the judgment of a justice, it be esta­
blished that the docket of a justice has been lost or destroyed, or that it 
cannot be produced, after reasonable efforts to obtain the same, other
proof oC the fact of a judgment having been rendered, may be given,
and may be repelled as other facts. 
SEC. 8. If any constable shall have collected any money on execu­
tion, and a recovery therefor shall have been had against his sureties, 
upon a complaint thereof being made to any three justices of the same
town, they shall summon such constable to appear before them, to 
show cause why he should not be removed from his office. 
SEC. 9. If such complaint be established to the satisfaction of ~It
of t f h afte h ' f the ' 
o t em, r a earmg o parties, or after 
the refusal or neglect of the constable t\l appear upon such summons,
they shall, by an instrument under their hands, remove such consta­
ble from his office, assigning therein the reason of such remoYal, anti
shall file the same in the office of the town clerk, who shall forthwith.
cause a certified copy thereof to be served on such constable. 
SEC. 0. Upon the aervice of a copy of such instrument, certified by 
the town clerk, on the constable named therein, such constable shall
cease to have any power or authority as such, and his office shall lie 
deemed vacant. ·
SEC. 1. Every justiee who shall issue any process authorised by this 
Title, excepting a venire, whenever he shall judge it expedient, on
the request of a party, may, by written authority endorsed on such 
process, empower any proper person, being of lawful age, and not a 
party in interest in the suit, to execute the same.n
SEC. 2. The person so empowered, shall thereupon possess all the 
tho
. f bl . l • h • f h 
811 r1ty o a consta e, m re ation to t e execution o sue process,
and shall be suiject to the same obligations, but shall not receive any 
fee or reward for his services therein • .,.,
SEC. 3. Every constable to whom process shall be directed and de· 
• agreeabl th • • f th" T" l h II
byered, y to e provisions o is It e, s a execute the same 
in penon, and shall not act by deputy, in any case. n 
SEC. 4. In the following cases, and in no others, a justice of the
peace may punish, as for a criminal contempt, persons guilty of the 
following acts : 
1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behaviour towards such
justice, while engaged in the trial of a cause, or in the rendering of 
any judgment, or in any judicial proceedings, which shall tend to
interrupt such proceedings, or to impair the respect due to his au· 
thority: 
2. Any breach of the peace, noise, or other disturbance, tending to
interrupt the official proceedings of a justice: 
a. Resistance wilfully offered· by any person, in the presence of a
justice, to the execution of any lawful order or process, made or issu- 
ed by him.
SEC. 5. Punishment for contempts, in the foregoing cases, may be 
by fine not exceeding twenty-five dollars, or by imprisonment in the
county jail not exceeding five days, or both, in the discretion of the 
juatice. But no person shall remain imprisoned for the non-payment
of such fine, more than ten days. 
SEC. 6. No person shall be punished for a contempt before a jus-
tice, until an opportunity shall have been given him to be heard in 
his defence. And for that purpose, a justice may issue a warrant to 
bring the offender before him.
SEC. 7. Upon convicting any person of a contempt, the justice shall 
make up a record of such conviction, stating therein the particular
circumstances of the offence, and the judgment rendered thereon 
which shall be subscribed by him, and filed in the office of the county
clerk, within ten days after its date. 
SEC. 8. The warrant of commitment for any contempt, shall eet
the particular circumstances of the offence, or it shall be void. 
SEC. 9. When a witness attending before any justice, in any came, 
shall refuse to be sworn, in any form prescribed by law, or to answer 
• d • d th h • h 
any pertment an proper question, an e party at w 080 instance e
attended, shalt make oath that the testimony of such witness ii so far
material, that without it he cannot safely proceed in the trial of such 
cause, such justice may by warrant commit such witness to the jail of
the county. 
SEC. 0. Such warrant shall specifiy the cause for which the same is 
i•ued, and if it be for refusing to answer any question, such question
shall be specified therein ; and such witness shall be closely confined 
pursuant to such warrant, until he submit to be sworn or to answer, 
as the cue may be.
SEC. 1. The justice shall thereupon adjourn such cause at the re- 
quest of the party in wbOfle favor such witness attended, from time to 
time, until such witness shall testify in the cause, or be dead or .inllne. · 
CHA.P. III. 
General Provisions concerning Courts of Justice, 
and the Powers and Duties of certain Judicial
Officers. 
T1TLE J .-Gcnernl provisions concerning the courts o( justice specified 
in the two preceding Chapters.
TrTLE 2.-General provisions concerning courts of record, and the pow· 
en and duties of certain judicial officers. 
TITLE I. 
GENERAL PROVJSIONS CONCERNING THE COURTS OF JUSTICE sn­ 
CIFIED IN THE TWO PRECEDING CHAPTERS.
SEC. 1. Slttiap cl eO'U'tl to be pablic. 
2. Cue• in which a jadge cannot 1it or act. 
a. J11dge1 ohppellate coartl, not to decide in certain cue.. 
4. Juclge1 not to pnctiae iD their OWD court.. 
6. Not to have a partner practi1ing in their court,, &c. 
SEC. 1. 
SEC. 1. Couru not to be open on Swuiay; to be adjourned OTU tbat day. 
8, Proce11 to be in the name of the people. 
!!!!!!!!! 
9. Legal proceeding. to be in Eogli1h; abbreTiationa; ftpre,.
SEC. 0. Stamping cl proceH nfficient sealing.
SEC. 1. Partie1 may appeu-, &c. in pel'loo or by attorney. 
SEC. 1. The sittings of every court within this state, shall be 
public, and every citizen may freely attend the same. 
J !. No judge of any court can sit as such, in any cause to which
be i, a party, or in which he is interested, or in which he would be
excluded from being a juror by reason of consanguinity ~r affinity to 
either of the parties; nor can any judge decide, or take part in the de- 
cision of, any question which shall have been argued in the court,
when he was not present and sitting therein as a judge. 
~ S. No judge of any appellate court, or of any court to which a 
writ of certiorari or of error shall be returnable, shall decide, or take
part in the decision of, any cause or matter which shall have been de- 
tennined by him, when sitting as a judge of any other court.
SEC. 4. No judge can practise or act as a counsellor, solicitor or at- 
torney, in the court of which he is a judge, except in those suits in 
wijch he shall be a party, or in the subject matter of which he shall be
interested. 
SEC. 5. No judge shall have any partner practising in the court of
hich he 
• . d -L-11 ' d be di l ' d' tJ ' 
W JS a JU ge ; nor DWI any JU ge rect y or in irec y m- 
terelted in the costs of any suit, that shall be brought in the court of
which he is a judge, except those suits in which he shall be a party, 
or be interested, as above provided.
SEC. 6. No judge, commissioner, or other judicial officer, shall demand 
• r'. th , t:. , , hi d , 
OI' receive any tees or O er Compensation, 10r gtvmg IS a Vice in any
matter or thing pending before such judge or officer, or of which he 
can take cognizance ; or for drafting or preparing any papers or other
proceedings, relating to any such matter or thing, except in those 
cases where fees are expressly given by law to such judge or officer, 
i>r services performed by him. 
SEC. 7. No court shall be opened, or transact any business, on Sun· 
day, unless it be for the purpose of receiving a verdict or discharging a 
jury; and every adjournment of a court on Saturday to another day,
aball always be to some other day than Sunday, except such adjourn- 
ment as may be made after a cause has been committed to a jury.
But this section shall not prevent the exercise of the jurisdiction of 
any single magistrate, when it shall be necessary in criminal cases,
to preserve the peace, or to arrest offenders. 
I s. AU writs and process shall be in the name of the people of 
this state, except where otherwise provided by law. 
. I ~· All writs, pr~, proc~ings and records in any court with- 
in this state, shall be m the English language, ( except that the prop-
er and known names of process, and technical words, may be express-
ed in the language heretofore and now commonly used) and shall be
made out on paper or parchment, in a fair, legible character, in 
Words at length, and not abbreviated; but such abbreviations as are
now commonly used in the English language, may be used, and num- 
SEC. 0. The impression of the seal of any court by stamp, shall be a
sufficient sealing, in all cases where sealing is required. 
hers may be expressed by Arabic figures, or Reman numerals, in the
customary manner •1 
SEC. 1. Every person of full age and sound mind, may appear by
attorney or solicitor, as the case may require, in every action or plea 
TITLE II. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING COURTS OF RECORD, AND THE 
POWERS AND DUTIES OF CERTAIN JUDICIAL OFnCERS. 
ART. 1.-Proviiions concerning courts of record, their process and proceedings.
AJlT. 2.-0flbe powers and duties of certain judicial officers. 
AilT, 3.-0f the officers of courts of record, their duties. privilegea, and liabilities.
AaT. 4.-Miscellaneous provislons concerning courts of reeord, 
ARTICLE FIB8T. 
Provisions concerning Courts of Record, their Proces« and
Proceedings. 
SEC. 1. Certain couru declared to be or record: certain powen. 
!. Proceedings not to be di,continued by neanciea.
8. Prooe11, &c. not to be di1continued by lailure to bold coarta, &e.
4. How proce11 to be tested when term bu not been held. 
6. Proceedinp not to be vitiated by omi11ion to adjonrn. 
6. Proce11 iuued before adjournment not to be affected thereby. 
1. New aeals when to be procured; expense thereof.
8. Ori~ writa bow to be ianed and teated, &c.
9. Proce11 to be 1ublcribed by attorney, &c. issuing it. 
IO. Powers or courts of record to punish for criminal eontempts.
SEC. 1. Extent of pani1bment for contempt..
SEC. 2. la certain cua it may be •IIIIUDUY; in otben after notice, &c. 
IS. Commitment to 1tate eircumstance, or offence.
H. Qualification of preceding 1ection1.
SEC. 5. Partiea paniahed, ltill llable to indictment. 
SEC. 1. The several courts treated of in the first Chapter of this act,
are courts of record; and in addition to the powers which are or may 
be conferred on them respectively, they shall have power, 
1. To issue process of subpoena, requiring the attendance of any 
witness residing or being in any part of this state, to testify in any 
matter or cause pending in such court : 
!!!!!!!!! 
SEC. 2. To administer oaths to witnesses in any ~ch matter or cause, 
and in all other cases, where it may be necessary in the exercise of
the powers and duties of such courts : 
2 
by or against him, in any court; or may, at his election, prosecute or
defend such action or plea, in person. But this provision shall not
extend to proceedings in criminal cases ; nor shall any person be per­
mitted to appear on the record in any civil cause in person, whilst he
has an attorney or solicitor in such cause. 
8 
a. To devise and make such new writs and foms or proceedings, 
as may be necessary, to carry into effect the powers and jurisdiction 
possessed by them. 
4 
SEC. 2. No process, proceeding, or suit, civil or criminal, before any 
of the said courts, shall be discontinued by the occurrence of aay va-
cancy in the office of any judge, or of all the judges of such court, 
nor by the issuing of any new commission to any judge or judges of 
any such court, but the persons appointed in such new commission, 
shall have power to continue, hear and determine such process, pro- 
ceeding or suit, as their predecessors might have done, if no new 
ccmmission had been issued. 
6 
~ S. No process issued, or proceeding pending, in any court of re- 
cord, shall be discontinued by reason of such court not having been 
held at any stated term thereof; but such process shall be deemed to 
be returnable at the term which shall be held next after such failure, 
and the proceedings shall be continued at such next term, in the same
manner as they might have been at the term which failed, upon the
like notice, as would have been required for such term. 
SEC. 4. In all cases where a stated term of any such court shall not 
have been held, process issued therefrom, may be tested on the first 
day of the term when such court should have been held.
SEC. 5. No omission to adjourn any court from day to day, .previous 
to the .final adjournment thereof without day, shall vitiate any pro- 
ceedings in such court.
SEC. 6. The adjournment of any court before the expiration of its 
term
hall
affi
h
• f , . ed 
, a not ect t e teste, return or service o any writs 1uu 
prior or- suheequent to such adjournment. 
6 
SEC. 7. Whenever the seal of any court shall be so injured, that it
can not be conveniently used, the court shall cause the same to be de- 
stroyed ; and whenever the seal of any court shall be lost or· destroy- 
ed, such court shall cause a new seal to be made, similar, in all re-
spects, to the former seal, which shall become the seal of the court. 
The expense of a new seal, for any court of oyer and terminer, or
common pleas, shall be paid by the county in which such coarts are
held. The expense 0£ new seals for other courts, sba.11 be paid from 
the state treasury.
SEC. 8. Original writs, whene~er the same shall be necessary, shall 
l.88De out of and under the seal of the court in which they shall be re­
turnable, and shall be tested in the same manner as other writs issued
out of such court ; but in other respects the forms now in use shall 
be observed.' 
SEC. 9. All writs and process issued out of any court of record, shall, 
before the delivery of the same to any officer to be executed, be sub­
scribed or endorsed with the name of the attorney, solicitor or other
person, by whom the same shall have been issued. 
8 
~ 1 O. Every court of record shall have power to punish as for a
criminal contempt, persons guilty of either of the following acts, and 
no others: 
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behaviour, committed du­
ring its sitting, in immediate view and presence, and directly tending
to interrupt its proceedings, or to impair the respect due to its autho­
rity: 
2. Any breach of the peace, noise or other disturbance, directly 
tending to interrupt its proceedings:
a. Wilful disobedience of any process or order, lawfully issued or 
made by it:
,. Resistance wilfully offered by any person to the lawful order or 
process of the court : 
6. The contumacious and unlawful refusal of any person to be
sworn as a witness : and when so sworn, the like refusal to answer
any legal and proper interrogatory : 
6. The publication of a false, or grossly_ inaccurate report of its 
proceedings ; but no court can punish as a contempt, the publication
of true, full and fair reports of any trial, argument, proceedings, or
decision had in such court. 
SEC. 1. Punishment for contempts may be by fine, or by imprison·
ment in the jail of the county where the court may be sitting, or both, 
in the discretion of the court, but the fine shall in no case exceed the
sum of two hundred and fifty dollars, nor the imprisonment thirty
days ; and where any person shall be committed to prison, for the
non-payment of any such fine, he shall be discharged at the expira· 
tion of thirty days.
12~ Contempts committed in the immediate view and presence 
of the court, may be punished summarily ; in other cases, the party
charged shall be notified of the accusation, and have a reasonable time
to make his defence. 
IS. Whenever any person shall be committed for any contempt,
specified in this Article, the particular circumstances of his offence, 
shall be set forth in the order or warrant of commitment.
SEC. 4. Nothing contained in the preceding sections, shall be con­ 
strued to extend to any proceeding against parties or officers, as for a
contempt, for the purpose of enforcing any civil right or remedy. 
SEC. 5. Persons punished for contempt under the preceding provi­ 
sions, shall notwithstanding be liable to indictment for such contempt, 
if the ame be an indictable offence ; but the court before which a 
conviction shall be had on such indictment, shall, in forming its sen-
tmce, take into consideration the punishment before inflicted. 
ABTIOLE 8.IX)OND. 
Of IM POUJera and Dutka of certain .ludidal <J.licer,. 
SEC. 8. Cunoellor and jadpl ol npnaae eout not to Neein fee,.
SEC. 7. Circuit jadgel allo,red to noeiTe fee,, 
SEC. 8. Powen and dotiu of 1upreme court C01111DU1ionen. 
SEC. 9. Bat aot to uerci1e certam powers gi,en by 1tatute. 
•· Not to ltay proeeecliap afta, nrctict. 
SEC. 1. Nor upon a capiu or ~eat.·
SEC. 1. Eucatiom how aft"~.~ orden to ltay proeeed.inp. 
•· Affelt on execution not to be preTeDtecl, without bond, Ac.
M. Bond where to be 6led; wbea to be delinred to obligee. 
SEC. 6. Order to be TOid WUI bond be ltatecl therein. 
SEC. 8. Order. o( npreme eourt not aft"ected by orden ol eo1mlai .. ionen 
SEC. 1. Olden gruted on 111cceaiTe applieatiom, when to be 1uoked. 
a Paalty on penont making 1ablequent applicatiom. 
SEC. 9. Orden not to be gruted in certain cuea. 
SEC. 0. Commiaionen not to act in their putner'1 CUI.NI, 
SEC. 1. Sapreme coart to regulate powen of COIIUIUHiOllen. 
8!. Reeorden and certain coonty jadgu to be CGIDIDi1aioeen.
SEC. 8. CertaiD powen or jadgu ol nperior oomt ha New-Yodt. 
M. <>meen aatboriaed to 1ip reconh aad tu colb .in 1apnme coort. 
15, 36 • tn. Prorilion on lalDe 1ubject, .in common pleu and mayor'• coart,.
38 at •· Orclen, ate. r. eommoa plea ud -yor'1 coartt. 
SEC. 0. Powen of jadgel of couty ooutt.
SEC. 1. Powen o( commi11ioaen or deed.I.
C. Powen~ ltc. o(muten and examiacn ia obueery. 
4S. Wben to be 1U1pended from oftice; proceecliap.
44 It 45, Authority o( notarie1 public. 
SEC. 8. Wbea their protuu to be prenaptin e'ridenee. 
a. When certain memonndam, made by notaria nideace. 
SEC. 8. Their liabilities for miacondoct. 
, •· Oftleen autlumNd to admwlter oatha, ,pecifted. 
~. OtlNr o8icen who may take adiduitl, ltc. ia obaneerJ. 
SEC. 1. Proviaioo (or continuing proceeding, on death, ltc. of officer. 
a Ptc>ceediap at time ad plaee qeeiaed in notice. 
SEC. 8. PN,ceedhtp at other tima and plMu.
k aerb, regiaten, lte. to keep offices open dariag certain botln.. 
16.. Slleri& to keep oftice,; notice olplaee to be filed.
SEC. 8. · Papen ray be aenecl at 1heril''1 o5oe. 
m. When they may be ""ed on cowaty clerk • 
SEC. 8. Slaeritr. not to liold coarta, except ia certain cuee. 
SEC. 8. Not to take bollda, b. ia uy cue aot pnlClibed by lnr.
a>. Who to auign bond,, in cue ol neancy .in 1berift"'1 ollc:e.
SEC. 1. Certa.ia incluu to be kept by county clerk, ad regbter.
SEC. 2. n.p.tiea to be -,pointed by ngi.._, ltc. ia .....-y. 
SEC. 8. Powen or 111ch deputiu. 
SEC. 6. The chancellor and justices of the supreme court shall not 
d~mand or receive any fees or perquisites, for any thing done by
either of them in virtue of their offices.• 
SEC. 7. 'fhe circuit judges and county judges may demand and re- 
ce1ve such fees u are allowed by law. 
SEC. 8. Supreme court commissioners duly appointed according to 
~----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
law, sball eeverally be authorised and required to perform all the du- 
ties, and to execute every act, power and trust, which a justice of 
the supreme court may perform and execute out of oourt, according
to the rules and practice of euch court, and pursuant to the provisions
of any statute, in all civil cases, except as herein otherwise provid· 
ed.-10 . . 
SEC. 9. But where any power is given in express terms by any ata·
tute, to the justices of the supreme court and the circuit judges or
either of them, without nan:ung supreme court commissioners in such
statute, such commissioners shall not be authorised to -e_xercise any 
such power. . 
SEC. 0. No such commissioner shall be authorised to grant any or­
der to stay proceedings in any cause, in which a verdict shall have 
been rendered. 
11 
SEC. 1. No supreme court commissioner shall grant any order to
stay proceedings on any capiaa ad reapondendum, or on any at- 
tachment. · 
SEC. 2. Where an execution shall have been issued, a(l order to stay 
proceedings thereon, granted by a aupre~ eoart commi1Sioner, shall 
not prevent a levy on property by virtue of such execution ; but shall
only suspend .a sale thereon, until the decision of the supreme court 
upon the m9:,tter. 
~ 2S. Nor shall any· 8UOh commissioner grant any order to stay 
proceedings on any execution against the body of a defendant, un- 
less such defendant shall have executed to the plaintiff, and delivered
to such commissioner, a bond for the use of such plaintiff, in a penal·
ty double the amount required to be collected -by such execution,
with two sufficient sureties, who shall swear that they are each worth 
the amount of such penalty over and above all debts ; conditioned 
that such defendant shall be found within the county to which such
execution was directed, so as to be arrested upon any execution that 
may be issued against his body on. the same judgment, within six 
months from the date of such bond. 
SEC. 4. Such bond shall be filed by the commissioner, in the office
of a clerk of the supreme court, within twenty days after t.be same 
shall have been taken ; and · 8hall · be delivered by such clerk to the
plaintiff, whenever the condition thereof shall be broken. 
SEC. 5. In 'every order to stay proceedings on an execution against
the body of a defendant, shall be stated the fact of a bond having been
given as required by this Title ; and if not so stated, such· order shall
be void. 
SEC. 6. Where the supreme court shall have made any order -in re· 
l'. h rd h l be . 
rerence to a matter, sue o er s a 1 not suspended, or m any man· 
ner affected, by any order granted by a supreme court commissioner. 
SEC. 7. If any application for any order be made to any justice
the supreme court, circuit judge, or supreme court commissioner, and~
such order be refused in whole or in part, or be granted conditionally, 
or on terms, no subsequent application in reference to the same mat-
ter, and in the same stage of the proceedings, shall be made to any
other supreme court commissioner ; and if upon any such subsequent 
application, any order be made by a supreme court commissioner,
shall be revoked by such commissioner, or by any justice of the su- 
preme court, or circuit judge, upon due proof of the facts.
SEC. 8. Ev~ry per~~ maki~g such subsequent application, contr_ary 
to the foregomg provunon, with knowledge of any previous applica-
tion and refusal, shall be liable to be punished by fine and imprison- 
ment by the supreme court, and shall be proceeded against as pre­
acribed in Title thirteenth of the eighth Chapter of this act. 
SEC. 9. No supreme court commissioner shall be authorised to grant
rd 
SEC. 1. 1· • f II 
any o er on tne app icanon o any attorney, counse or or party, re-
siding more than forty miles from the residence of such commission-
er, if there be an officer authorised to grant such order, residing with-
in forty miles of the applicant therefor. 
~ SO. No supreme court commissioner having a law partner
whose name the business of the co-partnership shall be carried on, 
shall be competent to perform any act authorised in this Title, in any
suit or proceeding in which such partner shall be in any wise inter- 
ested.
~ 8~. The supreme ~urt s~all have power, by gen~r~l rules, 
prescribe any other cases m which supreme court comrmssioners shall
not be authorised to grant any orders in relation to suits pending 
111Cb court, and to prescribe the terms and conditions on which orders
may be granted in any specified class of cases ; and also by order
any particular case, to forbid the interference of any such commis- 
sioner.
~ SS. Every recorder of a city, and every judge of the county 
be
. f th d f 11 . th 
courts of any county, mg o e egree o counse or ID e supreme 
court, shall, by virtue of their respective offices, be supreme court
commissioners; and shall be authorised and required to perform all 
the d~ties herein conferred, subject to all the preceding provisions
this Title. 
0 
, SS. The judges of the superior court of law in the city of New-.,~
York, shall, by virtue of their respective offices, be supreme court 
commissioners, and shall be authorised and required to perform all
the duties herein conferred on such commissioners, subject to all the
preceding provisions of this Title, except that they shall not have 
power to stay any proceedings in any cause or matter pending in the
supreme court, or on any process issued out of that court. 
SEC. 4. Records of judgments in the supreme court, shall be signed, 
and tbe costs in that court shall he taxed, by one of the justices theN­ 
of, or hy a ~l~rk of such court, by a circuit judge, or by a supreme 
CQUl't comrmssrener.
SEC. 5. In all eauses in any court of common pleas or mayor's 
court, in which the total amount of the costs to he taxed therein, ex­
clusive of disbursements, is not limited by law, the oosts shall be 
taxed, and the records of judgment ahall be signed only by the fint 
judge of such county, or by some other judge of such county being of 
the degree of counsellor in the supreme court ; and in case of the ab­ 
sence of the judges so authorised, by the clerk of the court.11
SEC. 6. In such causes in any mayor's court in any city, the COits 
shall be taxed, and the records of judgment 1haD be signed ()nly by
the recorder of such city ; or in case of his absence, by the clerk of 
the court.
SEC. 7. In all other cases, records of judgments in courts of common 
pleas and mayors' courts, may be signed, and co.,t, may be taxed, by
any judge of such court. 
of any county, and any 
other J. udge of such courts of the degree of counsellor in ,the supreme 
court, may make any order in vacation, touching any suit or proc;eed-
iog in the court of common pleas of such county, in like manner, aod 
with the like effect, as is or shall be practised by the justices of the 111· 
preme court at chambers, in any suit or proceeding in such court; and 
the mayor or recorder of any city, and any alderman thereof, beuig of 
the degree of counsellor in the supreme court, may in like manner 
make orders touching proceedings in the mayors' courts of their cities
respectively, and with the like effect.14 
SEC. 9. But no judge of the county courts of such county, other
than those in the last section specified, shall exercise any of the pow· 
ers therein conferred on those judges, except in case of their ~bsence, 
death or inability.
SEC. 0. Judges of county courts shall have power, 
I
To take the proof and acknowledgment of conveyance, of rea 
estate, and the discharge of mortgages : 
2. To take the acknowledgment of hail ln any action in the au· 
preme court, and in the court of common pleas of the county for which 
they are appointed : 
3. To take the acknowledgment of satisfaction of judgments in the
supreme court, and in the court of common pleas of their county: 
and,
,. To perform such other duties as are or may be enjoined by law, 
SEC. 1. Commissioners of deeds appointed for any county or city, 
have power, 
1. To take the proof and acknowledgment of conveyances of real
ettate, and the discharge of mortgages : 
s. To take the acknowledgment of bail in any action in the supreme 
court, nd in the court of common pleas of the county for which they 
1119 appointed, or in the mayor's court of the city fur which they are 
a,pointed; and in the city and county of New-York, in any action in 
the superior court of law therein : 
a. To take the acknowledgment of satisfactioa of judgments, in the
court of common pleas of the county for which they are appointed, or 
in the mayor's court of the city for which they are appointed, or in
the supreme court; and to perform such other duties as are or may 
be enjoined by Iaw.15 
SEC. 1. Muters· and examiners in chancery, shall possess all the 
--.I th • uall !--..l b nd • • 
powers IIUQ. 8U ority US y ex.ercam:,u J masters 8 exammers ID 
chancery respectively, according to the practice of that court, and all
such other powers as shall be conferred on them by the court accord- 
ing to law, or by any statute ; and shall be amenable to such court 
for the correct discharge of such duties. 
~ 4S. Masters and examiners in chancery may be suspended by 
the chancellor, from the exercise of the power, and duties of their of- 
fice, in cases of gross misconduct therein, after due notice and a full
opportunity of makmg a defence, shall have been given to them ; and 
the chancellor shall immediately report such suspension, with the
reuons thendor, to the governor, to the end that such master or ex- 
amiaer may be removed from office by the governor and senate. 
SEC. 4. Notaries public have authority to demand acceptance and 
• • 
payment of foreign bills of exchange, and to protest the same for non-
acceptance ad non-payment; and to exercise such other powers and 
duties, as by the law of nations, and according to commercial usage, 
or by the laws of any other state, government or country, may be per­ 
formed by notaries public.
SEC. 5. Tbey may also demand acceptance of inland bills of ex- 
change, and paymeut thereof; and of promissory notes, and may pro­ 
test the same for non-acceptance or non-payment, as the case may re­ 
quire. But neither such protest, nor any note thereof, made by any 
notary in this state, shall be evidence in any court of this state, of 
any (acts therein contained, except in the cases specified in the next 
section. 
SEC. 6. In case of the death or insanity of any notary public, or or 
Im absence or removal, so that his personal attendance or his testimo- 
ny, cannot be procured in any mode provided by law, the original
protest of such notary, under his official seal, upon such seal and his 
signature being duly proved, shall be presumptive evidence of the fact, 
or any demand of acceptance or of payment, therein stated. 
SEC. 7. Any note or memorandum made by a notary public in his 
own hand-writing, or signed by him, at the foot of any protest, or
in a regular register of official acts kept by him, shall, in the cases 
specified in the last section, be presumptive evidence of the fact of any 
notice of non-acceptance or non-payment, having been sent or deliver­
ed, at the time and in the manner stated in such note or memorandum. 
SEC. 8. For any misconduct in any of the cases where notaries pub­ 
lic appointed under the authority of this state, are authorised to act, 
either by the laws of this state or of any other state, government or 
country, or by the law of nations or by commercial usage, they shall 
be liable to the parties injured thereby, for all damages sustained;
and shall be subject to criminal prosecution and punishment, in the 
same cases, and in the same manner, in which other public officers of 
this state, would be liable for misconduct in any official duty or act, 
authorised or enjoined, by the laws of this state. 
SEC. 9. Wherever any oath or affidavit is or may be required or au· 
thorised by law, in any cause, matter or proceeding, ( except oaths 
1..-to
jurors and witnesses in the trial of a cause, oaths of office, and such 
other oaths as are required by law to be taken before particular offi. 
cers,) the same may be taken before any judge of any court of re­ 
cord, any circuit judge, supreme court commissioner, commissioner 
of deeds, or clerk of any court of record ; and when certified by any 
such officer to have been taken before him, may be read and used in 
any court of law or equity, of record or not of record, within this state, 
and before any officer, judicial, executive or administrative, before 
whom any such cause, matter or proceeding, may be pending ; and
affidavits to be read in the supreme court, may also be taken by any 
commissioner appointed for that purpose, by the justices of the said 
court. 
SEC. 0. Such oaths or affidavits, in any cause, matter or proceeding,
pending in the court of chancery, may also be taken before any master 
or examiner, register or assistant-register of that court, or before any 
commissioner appointed by that court for that purpose. 
SEC. 1. In case of the death, sickness, resignation, removal .from of. 
flee, absence from the county of his residence, or other disability of 
a'.:- b I'. h • 1 eedi th • d b 
any omcer, eiore w om any specia proc mgs au onse y any 
h be ed d h . . 
statute, may ave en commenc , an w ere no express provision 
is made by law, for the continuance of such proceedings, the same 
may be continued by the successor in office of such officer, or by any
other officer residing in the same county, who might have originally
instituted such proceedings; or if there Le no such officer in the same 
county, then by the nearest public officer in any other county, who
might have originally had jurisdiction of the subject matter of such
proceedings, if such matter had occurred or existed in his own county. 
SEC. 2. At the same time and place specified in any notice or order, 
which may have been given for parties to appear or for any other~ 
proceeding to be had, the officer substituted according to the last sec- 
tion, or according to any other provision of law, to continue proceed- 
ings commenced before another, may make any order and do and per-
form any act in relation to such proceedings, as if the same had been 
orig4lally commenced before him.
SEC. 8. But before any proceedings shall be had before any such 
substituted officer, at any other time or place, than such as shall have 
been specified in the notice or order requiring parties to appear, no- 
tice of such substitution shall be given to the parties who may be af-
fected thereby, either by personal service or by publication, in such 
manner and for such time, as the substituted officer shall direct. 
Such substituted officer shall thereupon be authorised to make every
order, and to do and perform every act, in relation to such proceed- 
ings, as if the same had been originally commenced before him. 
SEC. 4. The clerks of counties and of all courts of law and equity in 
th
• th . d , , f th f h 
IS state, e register an assistant-register o e court o c ancery, 
and the register of deeds in the city and county of New-York, shall
respectively keep open their several offices for the transaction of busi- 
nea every day in the year, except Sundays and the day observed as the
anniversary of American Independence, from nine to twelve o'clock 
in the forenoon, and from two to five o'clock in the afternoon. 
SEC. 5. It shall be the duty of the sheriff of every county, to keep
an office in some proper place in the city or village in which the 
county courts are held ; of which he shall file a notice in the office 
of the clerk of the county. If there be more than one place of hold- 
ing courts, the notice shall specify in which his office will be kept, or 
it may specify that an office will be kept in all such places, if he 
thinks proper.· Such office shall be kept open during the hours and 
on the days in the last section specified. 
SEC. 6. Every notice or other paper which shall be required to be 
served on any sheriff, may be served by leaving the same at the of- 
fice designated by him in such notice, during the hours for which it 
ia herein required- to be kept open ; but if there be any person be- 
longing to such office therein, such notice or paper shall be delivered 
to such penon ; and every such service shall be deemed equivalent 
to a personal service oo such sheriff. 
SEC. 7. If no notice shall be filed by any sheriff with the county 
clerk as herein required, the service of all papers on such sheriff
rnay be made by leaving them at the office of the county clerk, with 
such clerk or his deputy ; and the same shall be deemed equivalent to
a personal service on such sheriff. 
SEC. 8. No sheriff shall be authorised to hold any court for any pur- 
poee whateTer, except to execute writs of inquiry, and such special 
writs u may be directed to him, pursuant to any lltatute, and in tbe 
cues provided by law to inquire into any claim to property, leized
or levied upon by him. 
SEC. 9. No sheriff or other officer, shall take any bond, obligation or 
security, by colour of his office, in any other case or manner than such
as are provided by law; and any such bond, obligation or secmity, 
taken otherwise than as herein directed, shall be void. 
SEC. 0. Whenever any sheriff is required by law to assign any bond 
taken by him in the progress of any cause or proceeding, to any par· 
ty, and the office of such sheriff shall he vacant, his under sheriff, or 
the person acting in the place of such sheriff, is authorised, and may 
be compelled to execute such assignment, in the name of the sheriff to 
whom such bond was given ; which assignment shall be as valid and 
effectual as if executed by such sheriff. 
SEC. 1. It shall be the duty of the clerk of each county in this state, 
and of the register of the city and county of New-York, to attach to . 
every book kept in his office, in which deeds or mortgages shall be re­ 
corded, or collectors' bonds entered, an index to the matters contained
in such books, arranged in alphabetical order, under the names of the 
several parties to such matters, with references to the pages where the 
same may be found ; which, together with such books, shall at all pro­ 
per times be open for the inspection of any person paying therefor the
fees allowed by law. 
SEC. 2. Each register and assistant-register of the court of chancery, 
shall appoint some proper person to be the deputy of such register or 
assistant-register, by writing under his hand and seal Jo be filed in 
his office. Every person so appointed deputy, sti"alI take and sub­
scribe the constitutional oath of office. 
SEC. 8. Any such deputy may attend in the place of his principal,
the courts to be held by any vice-chancellor ; and whenever the' of­ 
fice of register or assistant-register shall become vacant, the deputy
of such officer, so appointed, may perform all the duties appertaining
to such office during such vacancy. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
Of tM Officers of Courts of Record, tl&dr Dutiu, PrimkP
and Liabilities. 
S.c. 6'. .\ttornie., &c. to be regalated by their respeetiTe comu. 
SEC. 5. Penom not to be admitted attomiea, &c. unle11 apprond.
SEC. 6. Attomiea, &c. to take oath of office. · 
flT, Notice to be giTen to party oa death ofhi1 attomey, &:e.
SEC. 8. Penalty on coun1ellon, &e. for deceit or colh11ion. 
&J. Penalty for wilful delay, and for extortion.
SEC. 0. Penalty for allowing name to be used in proeess, &c. 
n. Attornie1, &c. not to bay right, in action, to rro1ecute. 
SEC. 2. Not to lend JIIODef, &c. to procure suits. 
SEC. 3. Penalty for Tiolating two Jut aectlons. 
SEC. 4. Qaali6catiou oC three Jut eectiou. 
7J. Notice of nolat.ion• may be given in defeace of auitt.
SEC. 6. Plaiatifl', &c. may be examined on trial. 
'Tl, Order for p)ainti•to attend trial, may be obtained.
SEC. 8. ConteDta of affidavit to obtain order. 
SEC. 9. When order to be 1ened; duty ofplaintifr; fees to him. 
st. Proeeedinp OD plaintir1 fiulare to atteaad trial.
8L In certaiD cuu, pJaintHrto be non-1uited. 
8!. Te.timony of attorney, &c. not to be evidence criminally .
SEC. 4. ~to IUUDOD COD.table,, &c. to .U.nd cout.
SEC. 5. Pemlty oa COD.1table, &c. £or Dot attending. 
SEC. 1. 
SEC. 4. All attomies, solicitors and counsellors, shall be regulated 
• , • 
by the rules and orders of the court m which they shall respectively 
practise, 16 
SEC. 5. No person shall be admitted a counsellor, attorney or solici-
• le b be ed b h hi 
tor m any court, un ss e approv y sue court for 1S good
character and learning. 
11 
SEC. 6. Every person so admitted, shall, upon such admission, take
and subscribe the oath of office in open court, and subscribe the same
in a roll or book, to be kept in each court for that purpoee.t? 
SEC. 7. When any attorney or solicitor, shall die, be removed or sus-
pended, or cease to act as such, the person for whom he was acting, 
shall be notified to appoint another attorney or solicitor in such man-
ner as the court shall direct, at least thirty days before a_ny proceed- 
ing shall be had against such person.t? · 
of 
SEC. 8. Any counsellor, attorney or solicitor, who shall be guilty 
deeei II ' hall d · 11 '
any 1t or co u110n, or s consent to any eceu or co usion, 
with intent to deceive the court or any party, shall be deemed guilty 
of a misdemeanor, and on conviction shall be punished by fine or im­
prilonment, or both, at the discretion of the court. He shall also 
~it to the party injured by his deceit or collusion, treble damages,
to be recovered in a civil action. n 
SEC. 9. If any counsellor, attorney or solicitor, shall wilfully delay 
hit client's suit, with a view to his own gain, or shall wilfully receive 
any money or allowance, fur or on account of any money which he 
has not laid out, or become answerable for, he shall forfeit to the par- 
ty injured, treble damages.t? 
SEC. 0. H any attorney or solicitor shall knowingly permit any per-
be
• bi I l l k • hi ffi 
IDD, not 1ng s genera aw partner or a c er m 1s o ce, to sue
out any process, or to prosecute or defend any action in his name, 
such attorney and solicitor, and every person who shall so use the
name of any attorney or 10licitor, shall severally forfeit to the party 
against whom such process shall have been sued out, or such action 
proeecuted or defended, the sum of fifty dollars.I? 
SEC. 1. No attorney, counsellor or solicitor, shall, directly or indi-
rectly, buy, or be in any manner interested in buying, any bond, bill, 
promissory note, bill of exchange, book-debt or other thing in action,
with the intent and for the purpose of bringing any suit thereon.18 
SEC. 2. No attorney, counsellor or solicitor, by himself, or by or in 
• • h
the name of any other person, either before or after suit broug t, 
shall lend or advance, or agree to lend or advance, or procure to be
lent or advanced, any money, or any bond, bill of exchange, draft or
other thing in action, to any person,. as an inducement to the placing,
or in consideration of having placed, in the hands of such attorney,
counsellor or solicitor, or in the hands of any other person, any debt,
demand or thing in action, for collection. 
18 
SEC. 8. Every attorney, counsellor or solicitor, who shall violate
either of the two last preceding sections, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine or
imprisonment, or both ; and he shall also be removed from office in
the several courts in which he is Iicensed.18 
SEC. 4. Nothing contained in either of the three last preceding sec-
tions, shall be construed to prohibit the receiving in payment, by any 
attorney, counsellor or solicitor, nny bond, bill, promissory note, bill
of exchange, book-debt, or other thing in action, for any estate, real
or personal, or for services actually rendered, or for a debt antece­
dently contracted; or from buying or receiving any bill of exchange, 
draft, or other thing in action, for the purpose of remittance, and 
without any intent to violate either of the said three last sections." 
SEC. 5. The defendant in any suit to be brought in any action of
debt, covenant or assumpsit, may give notice with his plea, in addi­ 
tion to any other matter of defence, that on the trial of the cause, he
will insist and prove, that the demand on which such action is found­ 
ed, has been bought and sold, or received, for prosecution, contrary
to law, without setting forth any other partioulars.P 
SEC. 6. On the trial of the cause in which such notice shall have
been given, if the defendant· shall require it, the plaintiff, and his at-
torney and counsel, and any other person who may be interested in 
the recovery in such cause, shall be examined on oath touching the 
matters set forth in such notice.19 
SEC. 7. The defendant who shall have given such notice, may apply
either to a judge of the court in which such cause shall be pending, 
or to some officer authorised to exercise the powers of a justice of
the supreme court at chambers, for an order that the plaintiff" attend 
on the trial of the said cause to be examined as aforesaid.1~ 
SEC. 8. Such order shall be granted upon an affidavit of the defend·
~ f 
ant, stating that he believes he has a defence under the provisions 
r- 
O 
this Article; that he believes he can establish such defence by the
testimony of the plainillf, and that such plaintiff resides within this 
state.JO
SEC. 9. Such order shall be 
served on the plaintiff or his attorney, 
at the time of serving a plea, tendering an issue in the cause ; and it 
shall be the duty of the plaintiff tg attend the trial pursuant to such
order, to be examined as above provided. For such attendance the 
plaintiff shall be entitled to the like fees as are allowed to a witness. 
SEC. 0. In case such plaintiff shall not attend such trial, he shall, on
f f he d 
• f h rd be • ed • h •
proo o t ue service o t e o er, non-suit m sue action, 
unless such failure to attend shall be accounted for to the satisfaction
of the court, in which case the court may postpone the trial until its 
next sitting, on payment by the plaintiff of the costs of the defendant
in preparing for trial, and on such plainti1f's entering into a stipula- 
tion to try the said cause at the next sitting of such court, and then
to attend such trial. And if such plaintiff shall not then attend, he
shall be non-suited in such action.20 
SEC. 1. If any such plaintiff' so required to be examined, or if any
the
be
• · ted • h f h · h ll r-. 
o r person. mg mteres m t e recovery o t e suit, s a re,use
to answer, on oath, such questions as shall be pertinent to show a 
violation of the provisions of this Article ; or if, on such examination,
it shall appear that the cause of action, on which such suit is found- 
ed, has been bought or procured, contrary to the true intent of the
provisions of this Article, the plaintiff in such action shall be non- 
suited.20 
SEC. 2. No evidence derived from the examination of any such at- 
• • 
tomey, solicitor or counsellor, shall be admitted in proof, on any
criminal prosecution against him, for violating any of the provisions 
of this Article.iO
~ BS. It shall be the duty of the sheriff of each county in this state, 
within a reasonable jime before the sitting of any circuit court, sit-:':;,:::o~ 
hnm, f and . f I f
--o~, court o oyer termmer, court o common peas or court o 
general sessions, to summon personally so many marshals or con­
stables of his county, as he may have been directed to summon, by 
the court or the presiding judge thereof, to appear and attend upon the
Rid court during its sitting/n • 
SEC. 4. H no direction shall have been given by such court or its
presiding judge, the sheriff' shall, in like manner, summon so many
marshals or constables, as he may deem necessary for the purposes 
above mentioned. 
21 
SEC. 5. Every marshal or constable so summoned shall attend the 
sitting of such court, upon pain of being fined for every day's neglect
a sum not exceeding five dollars. 
21 
• 
20 
SEC. 6. All officers of the several courts of record, shall be liable to 
arrest, on any process against the body, and may be held to bail, in 
the same manner as other persons, except during the actual sitting of
any court of which they are officers; and when sued with any other 
person, such officers shall be liable to arrest, and may be held to bail 
as other persons, during the sitting of the court of which they are of­
ficers; but no attorney or counsellor or solicitor, shall be exempt from
arrest during the sitting of the court of which be is an officer, unless
he shall be employed in some cause pending and then to be heard in 
such court. 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
MisceUaneoua Provision, concerning Cou,·ts of Record. 
81:c. ffT. Case, in which governor may change places of holding courta.
SS. How directed; to be recorded and published. 
SEC. 9. Place. of holding courts in New-York, bow changed.
SEC. 0. Proclamation to be publi,hed. 
SEC. 1. Proeess to be returned, Ice. at place 10 appointed.
SEC. 2. Such conrta how adjourned for want of quoram.
SEC. 3. When court• may be held at other place than court-hoa1e. 
SEC. 4. Snch place to be deemed court-hou,e, ltc.
SEC. 6. Spirituou1 liquon not to be sold in court-bOII ...
SEC. 6. Penalty for violating Jut aection. 
SEC. 7. The governor may, at any time during the vacation of any 
court of record, other than such as shall have been appointed to be
held in the city of New-York, if he shall deem it requisite, by reason
of war, pestilence, or other public calamity, or the danger thereof, 
that the next ensuing term or session of any such court, shaU be held
at a different place from that where such term or session is requiredtobe
held by law, appoint such different place for the holding of such court or
session, as he shall deem expedient; and at any time thereafter he may 
revoke such appointment, and appoint a place anew, or leave such term
or session to be heldattheplacewhere it would have been held bylaw." 
SEC. 8. Every such appointment or revocation, shall be by writing
under the hand of the governor ; and shall be recorded in the office of
the secretary of this state. It shall also be published in such and so
many newspapers as the governor shall direct; and the expense of
such publication shall be paid out of the treasury. 
21 
SEC. 9. The mayor of ~e city of New-York, or in his absence, the
recorder thereof, may, by proclamation under bis hand and seal, di·
rect that the term of any court appointed to be held in the city-hall 
of that city, shall be held in any place or places within the city and
county of New-York, other than the city-hall, whenever war, pesti­
lence, or other public calamity, or the destruction or injury of the
city-hall, shall render it necessary that some other place should be 
111elected.24 
22 
SEC. 0. Every such proclamation shall be published in two or more 
daily papers printed in the city of New-York. 
24 
SEC. 1. Whenever such term or session shall be held at any place
so appointed by the governor, or by the mayor or recorder of the city~ 
of New-York, all process shall be returned, and all persons shall be
held to appear at such place, as if such term or session was held at
the place where by law the same was to have been held.21 
SEC. 2. In case any court shall not be formed at the place so appoint-
ed, by five o'clock in the afternoon of the first day of the term or ses-:!: 
sion, the same may be adjourned to the next day, by the same officer, 
and in like manner and with the same effect, as provided by law, in
case the place of holding such court had not been altered. 
SEC. 8. Whenever the court-house, or place of holding courts, in any
county of this state, shall be destroyed by fire or other means, or 
shall, from any cause, be unsafe, inconvenient, or unfit for the hold- 
ing of any court, the judges of the county courts of such county may
appoint some other convenient building in the vicinity of that, where 
the court is required to be held by law, as a temporary place for 
holding such court. 
20 
SEC. 4. The place so appointed shall· be deemed the court-house of 
the COUDty for the time being ; and all business which shall be
transacted at such place, shall be as valid as if the same were done at 
the usual and customary place.16 
SEC. 5. No spirituoas liquor shall, on any pretence whatever, be
sold within any building established as a court-house for the holding
of courts of record, while any such court, or any circuit court, shall 
be sitting therein; except in such part of such building not appropri-
ated to the use of courts, or of juries attending them, in which such
sale shall have been authorised by a resolution of the board of super- 
visors of the county.
SEC. 6. Every person violating the provisions of the last section, 
&hall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, 
I 
CHAP. IV. 
Of Actions, and the Times of commencing them. 
TITLE 1.-0f actions, and their general divisions. 
TITLE 2.-0fthe time of commencing actions. 
TITLE I. 
OP' ACTIONS, AND THl!:IR GENERAL DIVISIONS.
81:e. I. Actio11.1 enumerated, included in th.ii Chapter. 
2. Right of action not merged by any felony. 
2ll 
SEC. 1. The actions included within the provisions of this 
Chapter, are, either, 
1. Such as relate to real estate : 
2. Those which may be brought for the recovery of any debt or
demand, or for the recovery of damages only : 
a. Those which may be brought for penalties or forfeitures: 
4. Suits in courts of equity. 
SEC. 2. The right of action of any person injured by any felony, shall 
not, in any case, be merged in such felony, or be in any manner af­
fected thereby. 
ART. I..:._Of the time of commencing actions 1elati11g to real property. 
ART. 2.-0f the time of commencing actioDII for the recovery of any debt or demand,or
for damages only. 
ART. 3.-0f the time of commencing actions for penalties and forfeiture,. 
ART. 4.-General provisions concerning the commencement of suirs, and the persons and
cases excepted from the operation of the preceding Articles of this Title. 
ART. 5.-0fthe presumption of payment arising from the lapse of time. 
ART. 6.-0f the time of commencing suits in courts of equity. 
81:c. I. Limitatiom of certain 1uits by the people. 
2. i..t section not to extend to ,uita for fnnchiaes, &c. 
S. Gnntees of 1anda by patents, when to sue • 
.(. Suita when to be brought after patent. declared Toid. 
6. Limitation of private 1uib for real property. 
6. Aho of &Yowries and cognizance,. 
7. What neces.ary to render entry on laud. a claim. 
8. Owner of land deemed to be po11u1ed unle11 ednne pouenioa, &c.
9. What premite, deemed adversely held under written title. 
SEC. 0. Act. which ia such cue, coo.atitute adverse po11euion. 
SEC. 1. What premieea deemed adnnely held without claim of title. 
SEC. 2. Acts which in sueh cue constitute adnne po11e11ion. 
SEC. 3. Po11esaion of tenaot when to be that of landlord.
SEC. 4. Limitation of scire faciu on former fines. 
SEC. 6. Cuting of descent not to affect right to land. 
SEC. 6. Exceptione of peraon, under certain disabilities. 
SEC. 7. Eft"ect of death of penon under clinbility. 
1. The people of this state will not sue or implead any person 
any lands, tenements or hereditaments, or for the 
issues or profits thereof, by reason of any right or title of the said peo- 
ple to the same, unless, 
1. Such right or title shaU have accrued within twenty years be­
fore any suit, or other proceeding, for the same shall be commenced: 
or unless, 
1 
!!!!!!!! 
TITLE II. 
01'' THE TIME OF CQMMENCING ACTIONS. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
Of the Time of commencing Actions relating to Real Propmy. 
2. The said people, or those from whom they claim, shall have re-
ceired the rents and profits of such real estate, or of some part there-
of, within the said space of twenty years.2 
SEC. 2. The last preceding section shall not extend to any suit or pro-
seeutioa for, or in respect to, any liberties or franchises.2 
SEC. 8. No action shall be brought for, or in respect to, any lands,
tenements or hereditaments, by any person claiming by virtue of any 
letters patent, or grants from the people of this state, unless the same
might have been commenced by the people of this state, as herein 
specified, in case such patent or grant had not been issued or made. 
SEC. 4. When letters patent, or grants, of any lands or tenements,
shall have been issued or made by the people of this state, and the
same shall be declared void by the judgment or decree of some com- 
petent court, rendered upon a suggestion of concealment, or wrongful
detaining, or defective title, in such case, an action for the ~covery 
of the premises so conveyed, may be brought, either by the people of
this state, or by any subsequent patentee or grantee of the same pre- 
mises, his heirs or assigns, within twenty years after such judgment
or decree was rendered ; but not after that period. -i 
SEC. 5. No action for the recovery of any lands, tenements or here-
difaments, or for the recovery of the possession thereof, shall be main- 
tained, unless it appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor or
grantor, was seised or possessed of the premises in question, within 
twenty years before the commencement of such action. 
1 
SEC. 6. No avowry or cognizance of title to real estate, or to any
rents or services, shall be valid, unless it appear that the person ma- 
king the avowry, or the person in whose right the cognizance is made,
or the ancestor, predecessor or grantor of such person, was seised or
}>OSsesaed of the premises in question, within twenty years before the
~mmitting the act, in defence of which such avowry or cognizance 
la made.a
SEC. 7. No entry upon real estate shall be deemed sufficient or valid 
as l . l . be ed h . hi
a c aim, un ess an action commenc t ereupon wit m one 
Year after the making of such entry and within twenty years from 
the time when the right to make such entry, descended or accrued."
SEC. 8. In every action for the recovery of real estate, or the pos- 
1eSs1on thereof, the person establishing a legal title to the premises,
shall be presumed to have been possessed thereof, within the time re-
quired by law ; and the occupation of such premises by any other 
pel'90n, shall be deemed to have been under, and in subordination to, 
the legal title, unless it appear that such premises have been held and 
P<>sseased adversely to such legal title, for twenty years before the
conunencement of such action. 
2 
SEC. 9. Whenever it shall appear that the occupant, or those under
whom he claims, entered into the possession of any premises under 
ti~ claim of title, exclusive of any other right, founding such claim· upon
some written instrument, as being a conveyance of the premises in
question, or upon the decree or judgment of some competent court;
and that there has been a continued occupation and possession of the
premises included in such instrument, decree or judgment, or of some 
part of such premises, under such claim, for twenty years, the pre­
mises so included, shall be deemed to have been held adversely; ex­
cept that where the premises so included, consist of a tract divided into
lots, the possession of one lot shall not be deemed a possession of any
other lot of the same tract. 
SEC. 0. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, bv 
any person claiming a title founded upon some written instrument, or
some judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been ~ss­ 
ed and occupied in the following cases: 
1. w·here it has been usually cultivated or improved : 
2. Where it bas been protected by a substantial enclosure:
a. Where, although not enclosed, it has been used for the supply 
of fuel, or of fencing timber, for the purposes of husbandry, or the or·
dinary use of the occupant : 
r- ./ 
4. Where a known farm or single Jot has been partly improved,
the portion of such farm or lot that may have been left not cleared, or
not enclosed, according to the usual course and custom of the adjoin­ 
ing country, shall be deemed to have been occupied for the same 
length of time, as the part improved and cultivated. 
SEC. 1. Where it shall appear that there has been an actual contin­
ued occupation of any premises, under a claim of title, exclusive of 
any other right, but not founded upon any written instrument, or any 
judgment or decree, the premises so actually occupied, and no other,
shall be deemed to be held adversely. · 
SEC. 2. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by a
person claiming title not founded upon some written instrument, or
some judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been possessed
and occupied, in the following cases only : 
1. Where it bas been protected by a substantial enclosure : 
2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
SEC. 3. Whenever the relation of landlord and tenant, shall have ex- 
d
isted between any persons, the possession of the tenant shall be eern- 
ed the possession of the landlord, until the expiration of twenty years
from the termination of the tenancy ; or where there has been no
written lease, until the expiration of twenty years from the time of
the last payment of rent; notwithstanding such tenant may have ac­
quired another title, or may have claimed to hold adversely to his 
landlord. But such presumption shall not be made aft~r the periods
herein limited. 
<t 14 All • f • fc • · fi h I'. ] ied f
~ . writs o Bctre acta8 upon nes, eretotore evi o any 
manors, lands, tenements or hereditaments, shall be sued out within
twenty years next after the title and cause of action first descended or
fallen ; and not after that period. 
. ARTICLE SECOND. 
Of the time of commencing Actions for the Recooery of any
Debt or Demand, or /or Damages only. 
8Ec. IS. Certain action, to be brought within 1ix yean.
SEC. 9. Othen to be brought within fov yon. 
~. Othen to be brought within two yean.
SEC. 1. Against sheriffs, &c. for escapee, to be brought in one year. 
!'l. All othen agaiMt 1heri61, &c. to be hrought in threo yean.
SEC. 3. lVben cause of action deemed to have accrued in certain caaea.
SEC. 4. Exception of penont under certain disabilities. 
SEC. 5. Exception of suit, on notes, &.o. of oorporatiou.
SEC. 6. Suitl by executors, &c, when to be brought in certain cases. 
SEC. 7. Exception of auiu against penona being out of state. 
SEC. 8. Suih by the people, ••bject to this article. 
5 
SEC. 5. The right of any per!l<>n, to the possession of any real es-
tate, shall not be impaired or affected, by a descent being cast in con- 
sequence of the death of any person in possession of such estate. 
SEC. 6. If any person entitled to commence any action in this Arti-
cle specified, or to make any entry, avowry or cognizance, be at the 
time such title shall first descend or accrue, either, 
1. Within the age of twenty-one years: or, 
2. Insane: or, 
3. Imprisoned on any criminal charge, or in execution upon some
conviction of a criminal offence for any term less than for life: or, 
4. A married woman:
The time during which such disability shall continue, shall not 
be deemed any portion of the time in this Article limited for the com­
mencement of such suit, or the making such entry, avowry or cog- 
nizance : but such person may bring such action, or make such en- 
try, avowry or cognizance, after the said time so limited, and with-
in ten years after such disability removed, but not after that period . ., 
SEC. 7. If the person entitled to commence such action; or to make
such entry, avowry or cognizance, shall die during the continuance of 
any disability specified in the preceding section, and no determina-
tion or judgment be had of the title, right or action to him accrued, his 
heirs may commence such action, or make such entry, avowry or
cognizance, after the time in this Article limited for that purpose,
and within ten years after his death ; but not after that period . ., 
SEC. 8. The following actions shall be commenced within six years 
next after the cause of such action accrued, and not after: 
6 
All actions of debt founded upon &JJY contract, obligation or lia-
bility, not under seal, excepting such as are brought upon the judg­
ment or decree of some court of record of the United States, or of this
or some other state : 
SEC. 2. AU actions upon judgments rendered in any court not being a
court of record : 
3. AU actions of debt for arrearages of rent not reserved by some 
instrument under seal : 
4. All actions of account, assumpsit, or on the cue, founded on
any contract or liability, express or implied : 
6. .All actions for trespass upon land : 
6. All actions for taking, detaining or injuring any goods or chat­
tels, including actions of replevin: 
7. All special actions on the case for criminal conversation, for li­
bels, or for any other injury to the persons or rights of any, except
such as are specified in the two next sections. 
8 
SEC. 9. The following actions shall be commenced within four years 
after the cause of action accrued, and not after: 
1. All actions for assault and battery : 
2. All actions for false imprisonment. 
8 
SEC. 0. The following actions shall be commenced within two yem
ft th . 
a er e cause of action accrued, and not after: 
1. Actions for words spoken, slandering the character or title of
any person: 
2. Actions for words spoken, whereby special damages are SU&- 
tained." ·
SEC. 1. All actions against sheriffs or other officers, for the escape 
'th'
of persons imprisoned on civil process, shall be commenced wi 10 
one year from the time of such escape, and not after. 
9 
SEC. 2. All actions against sheriffs and coroners, upon any liability
incurred by them, by the doing any act in their official capacity, or 
by the omission of any official duty, except for escapes, shall be 
brought within three years after the cause of action shall have ac­
crued, and not after that period. 
SEC. 3. In all actions of debt, account or assumpsit, brought to re· 
cover any balance due upon a mutual, open and current account, the
cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued from the time of the 
last item proved in such account. 
SEC. 4. If any person entitled to bring any action in this Article
specified, ( excepting actions against sheriffs or other officers for es­ 
capes.) shall, at the time the cause of action accrued, be, either, 
1. Within the age of twenty-one years: or, 
2. Insane: or, 
a. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the
sentence of a criminal court, for a term less than for his natural life: 
or, 
4. A married woman : 
Such person shall be at liberty to bring such actions within the re-: 
spective times in this Article limited, after such disability removed, 
'!5 .. None of the provisions of this Article, ~all apply to suits.Buillo~
brought to enforce payment on bills, notes or other evidences of debt, 
issued by monied corporations. 
SEC. 6. If any person entitled t~ bring any action in this Article spe- 
citied, shall die before the expiration of the time herein limited for
the commencement of such suit, if such cause of action shall survive 
to his representatives, his executor or administrator may, after the
expiration of such time, and within one year after such death, com-
mence such action; but not after that period. 
SEC. 7. If at the time when any cause of action specified in this Ar- 
. 1 h l) • h h. 11 b f hi
tic e, s a accrue against any person, e s a e out o t 1s state, 
such action may be commenced within the terms herein respectively 
limited, after the return of such person into this stale ; and if, after
such cause of action shall have accrued, such person shall depart 
from and reside out of this state, the time of his absenceshall not be 
deemed or taken as any part of the time limited for the commence-
ment of such action.t? 
SEC. 8. The limitations in this Article prescribed, for the commence-
ment of actions, shall apply to the same actions, when brought in the 
name of the people of this state, or in the name of any public officer, 
or ot.\ierwise, for the benefit of the said people, in the same manner as 
to actions brought by citizens. 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
Oftke Time of commencing Actions for Penalties and For­
feitures. 
SEC. 9. Penaltie1 to the people to be sued for io two yean.
SEC. 0. Penalties wholly or partly to an infonner.
SEC. 1. Penaltiea wholly or partly to party aggriend. 
SEC. 9. All actions upon any statute made, or to be made, for any 
forfeiture or penalty, to the people of this state, shall be commenced 
within two years after the offence shall have been committed, and not 
after.11 · 
~ SO. All actions upon any statute made, or to be made, for any
forfeiture or penalty, given in whole or in part to any person who will
prosecute for the same, shall be commenced within one year after the 
offence shall have been committed, and not after; and in case such 
10 
action be not commenced within that time, by any printe citizen,
then the lllllle ahall be commenced within two yean after that year 
ended, in behalf of the people of this state, by the attorney-s,neral, or
the district attorney of the county where the oftnce waa committed;
anci not after. 
19 
SEC. 1. All actions upon any statute made, or to be made, for any
bisiture or cauae, the benefit and 1uit whereoC is limited to the party 
aggrieved, or to such party and th'e people of-this state, ahall be com-
menced. within three years after the offence committed, or the C8.Ule 
of action accrued, and not after. 
19 
..&.RTIOLB l'OUBTB. 
General Pr0111fl0ft8 concerning the CommMCement of Suitl, 
and the PeraonB and Oaau ~cepttd from the OperatioA of 
tie preceding .Articlu of tkia Title. 
SEC. 1. la 1ait1 by aliem1 time o( war to be deducted.
SI. Promion when judgment bu been UTNted or nTened.
&&. · Al10, wlaea defeadaat diet after 1ait broagbt. 
•· Aho, when plaiati8" diN after mt brought. 
SEC. 8. Also, when 'briagiag 1ait ltayed by iDjancticm.
SI. AJ.c,, WMD pnnatell lty pririlege ol def'udut.
SS. Wha Mtiom deemed to un been OCJnUDeDcecl • 
•. Matten o( dereace .. to commencement or suits.
SEC. 0. When ,...,_.. not to be deemed ermmeneeeeat ol nit. 
SEC. 1. Wlaen diabilitiea mut ban uiatecl.
G. ProTiaioo u to two or more eODcurreDt diabilitiet. 
4S. Thu Title 1lOt to apply when 1borter limitatlou.
SEC. 4. Thi• chapter JIOt to apply to nits (or eertaiD peultiea, l:e. 
SEC. 5. lligbtl or action emtiac, l:c. ucepted &om tlda Tide. 
~ S!. Whenever any person shall be disabled to prosecute in the 
courts of this state, by reason of his being an alien subject or citizen, 
of any country at war with the United States, the time of the contin­
uance of such war, shall not be deemed any part of the respective pe­
riods limited in the first and second Articles of this Title, for the mak·
ing of any entry, or the commencement of any action. 
If any action shall have been commenced within the times 
respectively prescribed in the three first Articles of. this Title, and
judgment be given therein for the plaintiff, and the same be arrested 
or reversed on error, the plaintiff may commence a new action, from
time to time, within one year after such judgment arrested or revers­ 
ed ; and if the cause of action survive or descend to his heirs, or sur­ 
vive to his executors or administrators, they may in like manner
commence a new action, within the time herein allowed to such 
plainti1f.11
SEC. 4. If any action shall have been commenced within the timel 
respectively prescribed in the three first Articles of this 'fitle, and 
the defendant in such suit die before judgment ; and if the right of
action be such as survives against the representatives of the defen- 
mt, the plaintiff" may commence a new action against the heirs, es- 
eadon or administrators of such defendant, as the cue may require,
widain oqe year after such death; or, if no executors or administra- 
tan be appointed within that time, then within one year after letters
,,,..rnentary, or of administration, shall have been granted to them. 
SEC. 5. When an action commenced within the time pre1eribed by
law, shall abate by r0880n of the death of the plaintiff, if the right of=llli' 
actioa survive to hia representatives, his executor or administrator 
may, within one year after such death, commence a new action, if
the came of such action would otherwise survive ; and if any action 
• commenced by an executor or administrator, shall abate by the
death of the plaintiff, a new action may be commenced by the admi­ 
nistrator of the same estate, at any time within one year aft.er such
alla.tement. 
SEC. 6. Whenever the commencement of any suit shall be stayed
by 
. . . f f . th . d . hi h h
an mJunctlon o any court o equity, e time urmg w ic sue 
ilgunction aball be in force, shall not be deemed any portion cf the
time in this Chapter limited, for the commencement of such suit. 
SEC. 7. Whenever the commencement of any suit shall be prevent- 
ed, by reason of any privilege of any member of either house of the 
legislature of this state, or of any member of either house of the con·
grees of the United States, the time during which the same shall have 
been ao prevented, shall not be deemed any portion of the time limit-
ed for the commencement of any suit for the recovery of any debt, de- 
mand, or damages only. " 
I SS. No action for the recovery of any debt, demand, or damages
OD.ly, or fur the recovery of any penalty or forfeiture, shall be deemed 
t.o have been commenced within the meaning of this Chapter, unless
it appear, . 
1. That the first process or proceeding therein was duly served u~
on the defendants, or some one of them : or, 
s. That a capiaa ad rupondendum was issued within the time
required by law, to the sheriff' of the county in which the defendants,
or one of them, usually resided, or last resided, in good faith, and
with intent to be actua11y served ; and that such writ was duly re­ 
turned: 
1. If a corporation be defendant, that the first process was in like
manner issued to the sheriff of the county, in which such corporation 
... located by law, or in which the place of transacting its business 
... situated, with the intent to be actually se"ed ; and that such 
process was duly returned. 
SEC. 9. When a suit shall be alleged by a plaintiff' to have. been corn- 
menced within the time required by law, and such allegation shall be:;::•, 
put in· iS&Ue by the defendant, it tiball be competent for the defendant
to prove, on the trial, that the process issued by the plaintiff, was not 
issued· with the intent, or in the manner required by law; or .that it
was issued to the sheriff of one county, when the plaintiff knew, or
had reason to believe, that the defendant was. in another county, and
could have been arrested ; or that any means whatever were used by
the plaintiff, or his attorney, to prevent the service of the writ, or to 
keep the defendant in ignorance of the issuing thereof. 
SEC. 0. Upon any such matter being established, or upon its appear·
ing in any other way, that any process wu issued without any intent 
that it should be served, such process shall not be deemed the com­
mencement of a suit, within the meaning of any of the provisions of 
this Chapter.
SEC. 1. No person shall avail himself of any disability enumerated 
in this Title, unless such disability existed atthe time his right of ac­
tion, or of entry, accrued. 
SEC. 2. Where there shall be two or more such disabilities existing
at the time the right of action or of entry accrued, the limitations
herein prescribed shall not attach, until all such disabilities be re­
moved. 
4S. The provisions of this Title shall not extend to any action
which is or shall be limited by any statute, to be brought within a
shorter time, than is herein prescribed; but such action shall be brought
within the time limited by such statute. 
SEC. 4. None of the provisions of this Chapter shall apply to suits
against directors or stockholders of any monied corporations, to reco­ 
ver any penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce any liability crea-
ted, by the second Title of the eighteenth Chapter of the First Part of
the Revised Statutes; but all such suits shall be brought within six
years after the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts upon 
which such penalty or forfeiture attached, or by which such liability
was created.t" 
SEC. 5. The provisions of the preceding Articles of this Title, shall
not apply to any actions commenced, nor to any cases where the right
of action shall have accrued, or the ri~ht of entry shall exist, before 
\heJilpe when t~s Chapter takes effect as a law; but the sari1e~
remain subject to the laws now in force. 
ARTICLE FIFTH. 
Of the Pre~t«m of Payment <trising from tht Lapse of 
Time. 
SEC. 6. Certain former judgments, when presumed paid.
47, Future judgments when to be deemed satisfied. 
-&S. Sealed instruments when to be deemed paid. 
SEC. 6. The presumption of payment shall. apply to all judgments ef
a court of record in this state, rendered before the third day of April,
one thousand eight hundred and twenty one, and to all such judgments 
rendered before this Chapter shall take effect as a Jaw, in the same
manner as such presumption applies to sealed instruments, 
SEC. 7. Every judgment and decree hereafter rendered in any court 
of this state, or of the United States, or of any other state or territory
within the United States, shall be presumed to be paid and satided, 
after the expiration of twenty years from the time of the signing and
filing such judgment or decree; but in any suit at law or in equity, in 
which the party against whom such judgment or decree was rendered,
or his heirs or personal representatives, shall be a party, such presump-
tion may be repelled by proof of payment, or of written acknowledg-
ment of indebtedness, made within twenty years, of some part of the
amount recovered by such judgment or decree; in all other cues, it 
shall be conclusive.
SEC. 8. After the expiration of twenty years from the time a right 
of action shall accrue upon any sealed instrument, for the payment of
money, such right shall be presumed to have been extinguished by 
payment; but such presumption may be repelled by proof of payment
of some part, or t,y proof of a written acknowledgment of such right 
of action within that period. 
ARTICLE SIXTH. 
Of the Time of commencing Suiu in Courts of Equity. 
SEC. 9. Certain limitations at law, to apply to chancery.
SO. Not to extend to case, of exclusive equity juri1diction.
SEC. 1. Bills for relief from fraud, to be fiJed in 1ix yean. 
SEC. 2. All other biU. to be fiJed in ten years.
SEC. 1. Exceptions of penon1 under disabilitiei,. 
SEC. 9. Whenenr there is a concurrent jurisdiction in the courts of 
, • • 
common law, and m courts of equity, of any cause of action, the pro.
visions of this Title limiting a time for the commencement of a suit
for such cause of action, in a court of common law, shall apply to all
suits hereafter to be brought for the same cause, in the court of chan- 
cery.
SEC. 0. But the last section shall not extend to suits over the subject 
-matter of which, a court of equity has peculiar and exclusive jurisdic-
. tion, and which subject matter is not cognizable in the courts of com- 
mon law. 
SEC. 1. Bills for relief, on the ground of fraud, shall be tiled within 
six years after the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts con-
stituting such fraud, and not after that time. 
SEC. 2. Bills for relief, in case of the existence c)f a trust not cogni-
zable by the courts of common law, and in all other cases not herein 
provided for, shall be filed within ten years after the caue thereof ahaU
accrue, and not after. 
SEC. 3. But if the person entitled to file any bill specified in the two
last sections, be at the time of discovering the facts constituting such
fraud, or at the time the e&U88 for filing such bill shall accrue, under 
any of the disabilities in the first and second Articles of this Title enu­
merated, the time during which such disability shall continue, aball
be excepted from the limitations contained in the two last aectiona, in
the same manner and with the like effect, as such time is herein ex­
cepted from the limitations prescribed for commencing actions at law;
and in case of the death of the penon so entitled, during such diabili­
ty, or before the expiration of the time herein limited for filing such
bills, the same may be filed by the heirs or representatives of such 
person, as the case may require, within the same time as allowed in
the said first and second Articles for commencing actions at law in
the like cases. 
T&TLE 1.-0f the action of ejectment. 
TITLE 2.-Proceedings to compel the determination of claims to real 
property in certain cases. 
T1TL& 3.-0f the partition of lands owned by eeveral pel"90DI. 
TrTLE 4.-0f the writ of nuisance. 
T1TL1: 5.-0f waste. 
T1TLE 6.-0f trespass on lands. 
T1TLE 7.-General provisions concerning actions relating to real pro­ 
perty. 
OHA.P. V. 
Of Suits relating to Real Property. 
TITLE 8.-Proceedings to discover the death of persons, upon whose
lives any particular estate may depend. 
OF THE ACTION OF EJECTMENT. 
SEC. 1. Action retained in the cuu in which it i1 now allowed. 
2. Other eue1 in which it may be brought.
8. Who to be plainul'. in the action.
4. Wlao to be defeoclanta.
6. How commenced; real claimanta to be plainti&, 
f. Fiotitiou putia, demi1U, "c. aboliahed.
7. Contenta oC deelaration.
8. Pnmiau claimed how to be delen'bed. 
9. U11cli'ridecl lbuea wbea claimed to be natecl. 
to. lnterat ofplainilll'to be 1tated. 
TITLE I. 
SEC. 1. Seven! counb and aenral plaintiJI'. may be joined. 
U. Notioe to be aabjoined to declaration; ita coatata.
SEC. 8. Delantioa, &c. bow ""eel, when premiae1 are occupied. 
SEC. 4. Bow Nl"flld ilpreauae1 are not OGellPied.
SEC. 6. Whea 1pecial order or court nece11UJ for rule to plelld. 
SEC. 6. Rale to appear and pte.d, when and how entered, Ice.
SEC. 7. Applieatioa that attorney for p)aintif'produce hia authority, allowed, 
SEC. 8. AflidaTit nece.nry, to foand application. 
SEC. 9. Order of court or offioer, apoo application.
SEC. 0. WW to be eridence of 1uch authority. 
SEC. 1. Whea application to be dimu11ed and defendant to pay co1t1.
21 I: II. Pleading, by defendant, appeuuce, &c. nid•ce llllder plea. 
k ec..ent rala abolilta.d. . 
SEC. 5. Right to poa1e11ion 1111licient without actual entry, Ice. 
SEC. 8. Leuu, entry and outer not to be prond or oonf'uled.
SEC. 1. Outer to be plOTed in actiou hy joint tenanu, Ice.
SEC. 8. Verdict againat all defendant, haring joint poasu1ion. 
SEC. 9. Proceed.inp when dietinct parceb are 1epantely occupied. 
SEC. 1. 
SEC. 1. Proceedings when plaintil'a' title expiru before trial.
II. Not to be abated by death of partie1 in certain cuu.
BS. Form of judgment upon Terdict and by default.
SEC. 4. Form of writ of poa1ee1ion 1lpoD judgment.
SEC. 6. Coltl how collected on judgment apimt plaintiff.
SEC. 7. Judgmecte OD nrdictl to be concluive; but two new triah may be ~ted.
SEC. 8. Eff'ect of judgment hy defaalt; new trial thereon. 
•· Eueption1 of penou under certain diaabilitiee.
SEC. 1. 
SEC. 1. Poe1eeaion how d'ected by recoTery on new trial. 
SEC. 1. Bight. of defendant OD new trial.
SEC. 1. 
4'. Mode of recovering 111ch damage•, by 1ugution OD the record. 
SEC. 5. Form thereof, 1errice and proceedings. 
SEC. 8. Plea and deface of defendant.
ff, Trial of ia111e1 ud ueeHment of damage,.
SEC. 6. 
SEC. 9. Set-08' allowed of improvement•, &c. by defendant. 
fiO. PJainti8' not to recover for more than 1ix yean' a.a. 
SEC. 1. Mode o( uee11ing damage, on default, &c. 
a Prouedinp to ucertain them. 
SEC. 1. Judgment on verdict or inquieition; ite e8'ect.
M. ProceediDp to recover mune profit,, on death of plainti8'. 
SEC. 6. On ncoTel'J of dower, proceedings to ucertain it. 
Ge. C.te of admeuurement, how paid. 
rn. Mortpgeu not to maintain ejectment. 
SEC. 1. The action of ejectment is retained, and may be 
brought in the cases and the manner heretofore accustomed, subject
to the provisions herein after contained. · 
SEC. 2. It may also be brought, 
1. In the same cases in which a writ of right may now be brought
by law, to recover lands, tenements or hereditaments ; and by any
person claiming an estate therein, in fee or for life, either as heir, de- 
viaee or purchaser : 
2. By any widow entitled to dower, or by a woman so entitled and
her husband, after the expiration of six months from the time her 
right accrued, to recover her dower, of any lands, tenements or here­
ditaments. 
~ S. No person can recover in ejectment, unless he has at the time
of commencing the action, a valid subsisting interest in the premises 
claimed, and a right to recover the same, or to recover the posseasion 
thereof, or of some share, interest or portion thereof, tobe proved 1U1d
established at the trial. 
SEC. 4. If the premises for which the action is brought, are actually
occupied by any person, such actual occupant shall be named de-
fendant in the declaration ; if they are not so occupied, the action
must be brought against some person exercising acts of ownership
on the premises claimed, or claiming title thereto, or some interest
therein, at the commencement of the suit. 
SEC. 5. It shall be commenced by the service of a declaration, in
which the names of the real claimants shall be inserted as plaintiffs, 
and all the provisions of law concerning lessors of a plaintiff, shall
apply to such plaintiffs. 
6. The use of fictitious names of plaintiffs or defendants, and of
the names of any other than the real claimants and the real defendants, 
and the statement of any lease or demise to the plaintiff, and of an
ejectment by a casu~l or nominal ejector, ere hereby abolished. 
7. It shall be sufficient for the plaintiff to aver in his declara­
tion, that on some day therein to be specified, and which shall be after 
his title accrued, he was possessed of the premises in question, describ­
ing them as herein after provided, and being so possessed thereof, that 
the defendant afterwards, on some day to be staled, entered into such
premises, and that he unlawfully withholds from the plaintiff the pos­
session thereof, to his damage, any nominal sum the plaintiff shall 
think proper to state.
8. In such declaration, the premises claimed, shall be described 
with convenient certainty, designating the number of the lot or town·
ship, if any, in which they shall be situated ; if none, stating the
names of the last occupants of lands adjoining the same, if any; if
there be none; stating the nature l boundaries, if any ; and if none,
describing such premises by metes and bounds ; or in some other
way, so that from such description, possession of the premises claim· 
ed, may be delivered.
SEC. 9. If such plaintiff claims any undivided share or interest in any 
premises, he shall state the same particularly in such declaration.
SEC. 0. If the action be brought for the recovery of dower, the de- 
claration shall state that the plaintiff was possessed of the one unrli·
vided third part of the premises, as her reasonable dower as widow
of her husband, naming him. In every other case, the plaintiff' shall
state whether he claims in fee, or whether he claims for his own life,
or the life of another, or for a term of years, specifying such lives or
the duration of such term. 
SEC. 1. In any case other than where the action shall he brought for
the recovery of dower, the declaration may contain several counts, 
and aeveral parties may be named as plaintiffs, jointly, in one count,
and separately, in others. 
SEC. 1. To such declaration there shall be subjoined a notice in writ-
ing by the plaintiff" or his attorney, addressed to the defendant, and 
notifying him, 
1. That the said declaration will be filed on some day in the then 
next term of the court in which the action is brought, specifying such 
day, or if the same be served during the term of any court, that it will
be filed on some tlay in such term, specifying the same: 
2. That upon filing the same, a rule will be entered, requiring
such defendant to appear and plead to such declaration, within twen­ 
ty days after the entry of such rule : and, 
a. That if he neglect so to appear and - plead, a judgment by de­ 
fault will be entered against him, and the plaintiff will recover pos­ 
session of such premises. 
I lS. H the premises are actually occupied, the declaration shall 
- 
be aerved by delivering a copy thereof, with the notice above pre-
scribed, to the defendant named therein, who shall be in the occupa­
tion thereof, personally, or by leaving the same with some person of
proper age at the dwelling-house of such defendant, if he be absent. 
SEC. 4. If the premises claimed are not actually occupied, the de-1b.
claration and notice shall be served on the defendant named therein,
personally, or if, he cannot be found, by leaving the same with some
penon of proper age, at the residence of such defendant. · 
SEC. 5. But where the declaration shall have been served in any 
other manner than upon the defendant, personally, no rule to plead
shall be entered, without the special order of the court. 
SEC. 6. Instead of the rule to appear and enter into the consent rule,
as heretofore accustomed, the plaintiff, on the day specified for that 
purpose in the notice aforesaid, or on some other day thereafter, upon
filing the declaration, with an affida,·it of the due se"ice of a copy
thereof, and of the notice herein before required, shall be entitled to 
enter a rule requiring the defendant to appear and plead, within 
twenty days after the entering of such rule ; and in case the defend-
ant shall neglect so to appear and plead within such time, his default 
shall be entered.
SEC. 7. A defendant in ejectment, may, at any time before pleading, 
apply to the court, or to any judge thereof in vacation; to compel the 
attorney for the plaintiff to produce to such court or officer' his au-
thority tor commencing the action in the name of any plaintiff there- 
in.
SEC. 8. Such application shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the 
defendant, that he bs not been serve~ with proof in any way, of the 
authority of the attorney to use the names of the plaintiffs stated in
the declaration. 
SEC. 9. Upon such application, the court or officer shall grant an 
order requiring the production of such authority, and shall stay all
proceedings in the action, until the same be produced. 
~ !O. Any written request of such plaintiff or his agent, to com-
mence such action, or any written recognition of the authority of the
attorney to commence the same, duly proved by the affidavit of such
attorney or other competent witness, shall be sufficient presumptive
evidence of such authority. 
SEC. 1. If it shall appear, that previous to such application by any 
defendant, he was served with a copy of the affidavit of the plaintiff's
_attorney, showing his authority to bring such action, such application 
shall be dismissed, and such defendant shall be liable for the costs of
resisting such application; the payment of which may be compelled 
by attachment as in other cases, which may be issued upon proof of
disobedience to the order of the court or officer directing the pay­ 
ment of such costs. 
SEC. 2. The defendant may demur to the declaration as in personal
actions ; or he shall plead the general issue only, which shall be that 
the defendant is not guilty of unlawfully withholding the premises
claimed by the plaintiff, as alleged in the declaration ; and the filing
and service of such plea or demurrer, shall be deemed an appearance 
in the cause. And upon such plea, the defendant may give the same
matter in evidence, and the same proceedings shall be had, as upon 
the plea of not guilty in the present action of ejectment, except as here­
in otherwise provided. 
~ 2S. Upon such plea, the defendant may give in evidence any 
matter which if pleaded in the present writ of right or action of dow­
er, would bar the action of the plaintiff. 
SEC. 4. The consent rule, heretofore used, is hereby abolished. 
SEC. 5. It shall not be necessary for the plaintiff to prove an actual 
entry under title, nor the actual receipt of any profits of the premises
demanded; but it shall be sufficient for him to show a right to the
possession of such premises, at the time of the commencement of the
suit, as heir, devisee, purchaser or otherwise. 
SEC. 6. It shall not be necessary on the trial, for the defendant to
confess, nor for the plaintiff to prove, lease, entry and ouster, or
either of them, except as provided in the next section ; but this sec· 
tion shall not be construed to impair, nor in any way to affect, any of
the rules of evidence now in force, in regard lo the maintenance and 
defence of the action. 
SEC. 7. If the action be brought by one or more tenants in common,
or joint tenants, against their co-tenants, the plaintiff, in addition to all 
, 
other evidence which he may be bound to give, shall be required to
prove on the trial of the cause, that the defendant actually ousted 
such plaintiff, or did some other act amounting to a total denial of 
his right as such co-tenant. 
SEC. 8. If the action be brought against several defendants, and
joint possession of all be proved, the plaintiff shall be entitled to 
verdict against all, whether they shall have pleaded separately or
jointly. 
SEC. 9. When the action is against several defendants, if it appear
on the trial, that any of them occupy distinct parcels in severalty, or 
jointly, and that other defendants possess other parcels in severalty, or
jointly, the plaintiff' shall elect at the trial against which he will pro- 
ceed ; which election shall be made before the testimony in the cause
shall be deemed closed ; and a verdict shall thereupon be rendered 
for the defendants not so proceeded against. 
, SO. In the following cases, the verdict shall be rendered as fol- 
I
ows : 
1. If it be shown on the trial, that all the plaintiffs have a right to
recover the possession of the premises, · the verdict in that respect 
shall be for the plaintiffs generally : 
s, If it appear that one or more of the plaintiff's have a right to the 
• f h • d h h h • h 
possession o t e prem1808, an t at one or more ave not sue rig t, 
the verdict shall specify for which plaintiff the jury find, and as to
which plaintitfthey find for the defendant: 
a. If the verdict be for any plaintiff, and there be several defend- 
ants, the verdict shall be rendered against such of them as were in 
possession of the premises, or as claimed title thereto, at the com­ 
mencement of the action : 
,. If the verdict be for all the premises claimed, as specified in 
the declaration, it shall in that respect be for such premise, gene-
rally: 
5. If the verdict be for a part of the premises described in such
declaration, the verdict shall particularly specify such part, as the:::!..°' 
same shall have been proved with the same certainty herein before
required in the declaration, in the description of the premises claim- 
ed: 
6. If the verdict be for an undivided share or interest in the pre- 
tnises claimed, it shall specify such share or interest; and if for an
undivided share in a part of the premises claimed, it shall specify 
such share, and shall describe such part of the premises as herein be-
fore required : · 
1. The verdict shall also specify the estate which shall have been::=:~
established on the trial, by the plaintiff in whose favor it shall be 
rendered, whether such estate be in fee, for his own life, or for the 
Iii, oC another, stating such lives, or whether it be a.term for years,
and specifying the duration of such term. 
SEC. 1. If the right or title of a plaintiff" in ejectment expire after
the commencement of the suit, but before trial, the verdict shall be 
returned according to the fact, and judgment shall be entered that he
recover his damages by reuon of the withholding of the premise, by 
the defendant, to be assessed ; and that as to the premiaea claimed, 
the defendant go thereof without day. 
i se. The action of eieetment shall . not be abated bv the death 
• ..-- J 
of any plaintiff; or of one of several defendants, after issue and be-
fore verdict or judgment; but the same proceedings may be had as in
other actions, to substitute the names. of those who may succeed to 
the title of the plaintiff so dying, in which case, tho issue shall be
tried as between the original parties ; and in case of the death of a
defendant, the cause shall proceed against the other defendants. 
SS. In cases where no other provision is made, the judgl:PC!Dt 
in the action, if the plaintiff prevail, shall be, that the plaintiff re- 
cover the posseaion Qf the premises, according to the verdict of the
jury, if there was such verdict; or if the judgment be by default, ae­ 
cording to the description thereof in the declaration, with costs to be
taxed. 
SEC. 4. The plaintiff recovering judgment, shall be entitled to a writ 
of poaeesion which shall be substautially, in the following form:
"The People, &c. To the Sheri~ &c. 
Whereas A. B. has lately, in our supreme court of judicature, [ or
in the court of common pleas held in and for the county of ,' 
aaftie case may be.] by the judgment of the said court, recovered
against C. D. one messuage, &c. [ describing the premi&es recovered,
with the like certainty as above provided,] which said premises have 
been, and are still unjustly withheld from the said A. B. by the said
C. D. whereof he is convicted, as appears to us of record; and foras­ 
much as it is adjudged in tho said court that the said A. B. have exe­ 
cution upon his said judgment against· the said C. D., according to
the force, form and eB"ect of his said recovery; therefore we com·
mand you, that without delay, you deliver to the said A. B. posses­ 
sion of the said premises so recovered with the appurtenances; and 
that you certify to, &c. at, &c. on, &c. in whnt manner you shall 
uve executed this writ. [If there be costs to be collected, the pro­ 
per clause may be here inserted, or a separate execution may be is­
sued therefor.] 
Witness, &c." 
SEC. 5. Upon a judgment A0'1lin111t the plaintiff., or one or more plain· 
if} ~- 
tiffs, in cues where they shall be liable for costa, execution for the
collection of the same, shall be issued as upon judgments in personal 
actions ; and tbe proceeding by attachment for the collection of such
costs, is hereby abolished. 
SEC. 6. Every judgment in the action of ejectnient, rendered upon a
' the • I blished • h . 
renlict, shall be conclusive as to tit e esta m sue action, 
upon the party against whom the same is rendered, and against all
perlOns claiming from, through or under such party, by title accruing
aft& the commencement of such action, object to the exceptions here- 
in after contained. 
SEC. 7. The court in which suchjudgment shall be rendered, at any 
time within three zears thereafter, upon the lll)plication of the party 
against whom the same waa rendered, his heirs or usigns, and YE2!1 
~lyf all costs and dama.ges recovered thereby, shall vacate such
judgment and grant a new trial in such cause. Andthe court upon 
subsequent ,::;cation made within tvo years after the rendering of
the second ju ent fn said cause, if sahsnoo that justice will be there- 
3 prom~, and the rjghts of the parties more safisfactorily ascertain-
and establ~ may vacate the judgment and grant another new 
trial. But no more than two new trials shall be granted under this
section. 
~ SS. Every judgment in ejectment rendered by default, shall, from 
and after three years from the time of docketing the same, be oonclu- 
sive upon the defendant, and upon all persons claiming from or through
him by title accruing after the commencement of the action. But 
within five years after the docketing of such judgment, on the applica-
tion of the defendant, his heirs or assigns, and upon payment of all
costs and damages recovered thereby, the court may vacate such judg-
ment and grant a new trial, if such court shall be satisfied that justice 
will be promoted, and the rights of the parties more satisfactorily as­ 
certained and established.
SEC. 9. But if the defendant in such action, at the time of the docket- 
ing of the judgment by default, be either, 
1. Within the age of twenty-one years: or; 
1. Insane : or, • 
a. Imprisoned on any criminal charge, or in execution upon some 
conviction of a criminal olfence, for any term less than for life: or,
,. A married woman : 
The time during which such disability shall continue, shall not be 
-deemed any portion of the said three years ; but any such person may 
bring an action for the recovery of such premises after that time, and 
within three years after such disability shall be removed, but not after 
that period.
SEC. 0. If the person entitled to commence such astion, shall die dur- 
ing the continuance of any disability specified in the preceding sec­
tion, and no determination or judgment be had of or upon the title, 
right or action to to him accrued, his heirs may commence such action, 
after the time above limited for that purpose, and within three years 
after his death.
SEC. 1. If the plaintiff shall have taken pouession of the premi­ 
ses, by virtue of any recovery in ejectment, such possession shall not
in any way be affected by the vacating of any judgment, as herein pro- 
vided; and if the defendant recover in any new trial hereby authoril­ 
ed, he shall be entitled to a writ of possession, in the same manner as
if he was plaintiff. 
SEC. 2. Upon any new trial granted 88 herein provided, the defeD·
dant may show any matters in bar of a recovery, which he might
show to entitle him to the possession of the premises, if he were
plaintiff in the action. 
SEC. 3. The plaintiff recovering judgment in ejectment in any of the 
cases in which such action may be maintained, shall also be entitled to
recover damages against the defendant for the rents and profits of the 
premises recovered. But if such action be brought for the recoveryof 
dower, the plaintiff shall be entitled to recover such damages, only in
the cases and to the extent prescribed in the first Chapter of the Se­ 
cond Part of the Revised Statutes. 
SEC. 4. Instead of the action of trespass for me.me profits heretofore
used, the plaintiff seeking to recover such damages, shall, within one 
year after the docketing of the judgment, make and file a suggestion
of such claim ; which shall be entered with the proceedings thereon,
upon the record of such judgment, or be attached thereto, as a con·
tinuation of the same. 
SEC. 5. Such suggestion shall be substantially in the same form as is 
now in use for a declaration in an action of assumpsit for UJe and occu­
pation, as near as may be ; and it shall be served on the defendant in the 
same .manner herein before prescribed respecting the service of a de­
claration in ejectment ; and a rule to plead thereto shall be entered, 
and notice thereof given, in the same manner as upon declarations in 
personal actions. 
SEC. 6. The defendant inay plead the general issue of non-assumpsit,
and under such plea, may give notice of, or may plead specially, any 
matters in bar of such claim, except such as were or might have been
controverted in such action of ejectment ; but he may plead or give 
notice of a recovery by such defendant, or any other person, of the 
same premises, or of part thereof, subsequent to the verdict in such 
action of ejectment, in bar or in mitigation of the damages claimed by 
the plaintiff.
SEC. 7. If any issue of fact be joined on such suggestion, it shall be 
tried, as in other cases ; ~nd if such issue be found for the plainti6, 
the same jury shall assess his damages, to the amount of the ~ 
profits received by the defendant since he entered into possession of
the premises, subject to the restrictions herein after contained. 
SEC. 8. On the trial of such issue, the plaintiff shall be required to es- 
• . • . 
tablisb, and the defendant may controvert, the time when such defen-
dant entered into the possession of the premises ; the time during 
which he enjoyed the muM profits thereof; and the value of such 
profits ; and the record of the recovery in the action of ejectment,
shall not be evidence of such time. 
SEC. 9. On such trial, the defendant shall have the same right to set
oft" permanent improvements made on the premises, to the amount of 
the plaintiff's claim, as is now allowed by law. And in estimating
the plaintiff's damages, the value of the use by the defendant of any
improvements made by him, shall not be allowed to the plaintiff. 
SEC. 0. The plaintiff shall not be entitled to recover the rents and
profits of the land so recovered, for any longer term than six years. 
SEC. 1. If no issue of fact be joined on such suggestion, or if judg-ANwtinr 
• 
ment thereon be rendered against the defendant by default, on de-
murrer or otJ:ierwise, a writ of inquiry, to assess the value of such 
mune profits, shall be issued, of the execution of which, the same no-
.lice shall be given to the defendant, or his attorney, as in other cases. 
SEC. 2. Upon the execution of such writ, tho plaintiff shall be re-
quired to establish the same matters herein before required, in the 
cue of an issue being joined, and the defendant may, in like manner,
controvert the same, and make any set-off to which he shall be en- 
titled; and the jury shall assess the damages in the same manner.
The same proceedings shall be had on such writ, and it shall be re-
turned, as in other cases, with the inquisition taken thereon. 
SEC. 8. Upon such inquisition, or upon the verdict of the jury in the
case of an issue being joined, the court shall render judgment as in 
actions of assumpsit for use and occupation, which shall have the like
effect in all respects. 
SEC. 4. If the plaintiff in ejectment shall have died after issue joined 
' dgme th ' hi 1 •
or JU nt erem, IS persona representatives may enter a sug- 
geetion of such death, of the granting letters testamentary or of admi­
nistration to them, and may suggest their claim to the me.me profits
of the premises recovered, in the same manner and with the like ef-
fect, as the deceased; and the same proceedings, in all respects shall
be bad thereon. 
SEC. 5. If the action be brought to recover the dower of any widow,
which shall not have been admeasured to her before the commence- 
ment of such action, instead of a writ of possession being issued, such 
plaintiff .shall proceed to have her dower assigned to her in manner
following: 
1. Upon the filing of the record of judgment, the court, upen the
motion of the plaintuf, shall appoint three reputable and disinterested 
freeholders, commissioners, for the purpose of making admeuµ~t 
of the dower of the plaintiff, out of the Ianda described in the record;
~ the commissioners so appointed, shall proceed in like manner, 
poase88 the like powers and be subject to the like obligatibns and con­ 
trol, as ccmmissicners appointed pursuant to the seventh Title of the 
eighth Chapter of this act : . 
2. The. report of the commissioners may be appealed from by any 
party to the action, within the same time, and the like proceediags
shall be had thereupon, as are prescribed in the said seventh T.itle of
the said eighth Chapter : _ 
a. Upon the confirmation of the report of the commissioners, a writ 
of possession shall be issued to the sheriff of the proper county, de-
scribing the premises assigned for the dower, and commanding the
sheriff to put the defendant in possession thereof. 
SEC. 6. 'fhe OOlta and expe11888 incurred in such admeasurement of 
dower, tball be subject to the provisions contained in -the seventh•
T~tle of the eighth Chapter of this act. 
SEC. 7. No action of ejectment shall hereafter be maintained by a
mortgagee, or his assigns or representatives, for the recovery ci the
possession of the mortgaged premises. 
TITLE II. 
P800EEDINOS TO COMPEL THE· DETERMINATION OF CLAIMS TO
REAL PROPERTY, IN CERTAIN CASES. 
SEC. 1. Who e11titled to proceed under thi8 Title, 
2. Notice to be ae"ed on claimant; ita contata. 
9. Upon what penou and bow to be served. 
4. Rule for lppfJU'llloe of claimant, bow to be entered.
6. Claimant to appear by •erring notice. _
6. Judgment for want of appearance, &c.; it. effeets.
7. Plea in bar o£ certain matten; judgment thereon, &e.
8. Diaclaimer of right, costa thereon and eJf ect of.
9. If title claimed, to declare in ejectment. 
SEC. 0. What to be deemed pleading, within the rule. 
11, Rule upon Jiling declaration in ejectment.
SEC. 2. Pleadings ud proceeding, thereon. 
~· ~t of poaaeaion not required in oertain cue,, &c.
SEC. 4. E8ect of judgment in auch action. 
· H. Writ of poue11ion IDd meme profit,. 
!!!!!!!!! 
SEC. 6. Exception u to reve ... ions, •c. . ·
SEC. 9. Proceeding. under tlua Title against non-resident. having qeau. 
· a>. In what cue. rule to appear and plead, may be had. 
SEC. 1. .Where any person, singly, or he and those whose estate he 
has, shall have been for three years in the actual possession of any 
lands or tenements, claiming the same in fee or for life, b:e may com­ 
pel a determination upon any claim which any other person may 
make to any estate in fee or for life, in possession, reversion or re- 
mainder, to such lands and tenements, in the manner and by the pro-
oeedings herein after specified. 
! !. He shall serve a notice, subscribed with his name and place
of residence, on such claimant, stating, 
1. His right to the premises demanded, in a brief manner, and 
whether his estate therein is in fee or for life, and whether he holds
the same as heir, devisee or purchaser, with the source or means by 
which his right immediately accrued to him : 
t. The premises claimed, with the same certainty as herein before 
required in a declaration in ejectment : 
. I. That such premises then are, and for the three years preceding
such notice have been, in his actual possession, or in the actual pos­ 
lU.lion of himself and those from whom he derives his title : and,
,. That the person to whom such notice is directed, unjustly 
claims title to such premises, and that unless such person appear in 
the supreme court within the time, and assert his claim, in the man­
ner provided by law, he and all persons claiming under him, will be 
bever barred from all claim to any estate of inheritance or freehold, 
in poaession, reversion or remainder, to the premises described in 
aucb notice. 
I S. Such notice can be directed to and served, only, UtJ<>n a per- 
aon being at the time, of full age and not insane, nor imprisoned on 
any criminal charge or conviction, and not being a married woman ; 
and it shall be served by delivering a copy thereof personally to the
indiridual to whom it is directed. 
SEC. 4. Upon any day in any term of the supreme court after the ser- 
vice of such notioe, the person who caused the same to be aerved, on 
&ling a copy of such notice, with an affidavit of the due service there-
o~ as herein required, may enter a rule of course, requiring the per- 
lOD on whom such notice was served to appear and plead thereto, 
within forty days after the entry of such rule. 
SEC. 5. Such appearance shall be made by aerving notice thereof on 
the pel'BOn in whose behalf such rule was entered, or on his attor- 
ney. 
SEC. 6. If such person shall not appear and plead, within the time 
limited in the rule, the court shall direct his default to be entered,
and judgment shall be. rendered upon such default, in like manner, 
IDd with the like effect, as if such person had appeared and diaclaimi.,.. 
eel, u herein after provided ; except that no costs shall be adjudged 
against either party. 
SEC. 7. Such person may plead in bar of all further proceedings, that
neither the party serving such notice, nor he and those whose estate 
be bu, have been in the actual possession of the premises claimed, 
b three whole years before the service of such notice. And if judg- 
ment be gi•en in favor of IIUCb plea, all further proceedings abill be
barred, and the person so pleading shall recover his costs. If judg· 
ment be given against such plea, the party pleading may be required 
by rule, to be entered 88 of course, to plead to the title within twenty
days after service of a notice of such rule; and in case he shall omit
so to plead within that time, the like judgment shall be had against 
him as if he had-disclaimed, as provided in the next section. 
SEC. 8. Such person may by plea disclaim all right, title and claim to
any estate of inheritance or of freehold in the premises described in
the notice, and which shall also be described in such plea ; in which 
case judgment of discontinuance shall be entered with costs, to him;
but he and all persons claiming under him, by title accruing sub&e­
q uently to the service of the notice herein before provided, shall be
forayer barred from all claim to any estate of inheritance or freehold 
in the said premises. 
SEC. 9. If such person claims title, in fee or for life, in poaeaion, 
• , 
reversion or remamder, he shall declare agamst the person semng 
such notice, 88 in an action of ejectment, and shall thereupon become
plaintiff in such action. 
SEC. 0. Such declaration, or any plea herein before allowed, shall
be deemed a pleading within the rule requiring an appearance and
plea as herein before provided. 
SEC. 1. If a declaration in ejectment be filed and served as herein
provided, the plaintiff therein may enter a rule requiring the defendant 
to plead thereto within twenty days after the service thereof, in the 
same manner and with the like effect as in personal actions. 
SEC. 2. Such defendant shall demur or plead thereto in the same
manner 88 herein before provided, and the like proceedings in all re­ 
spects shall be had, and with the like effect, except as herein other·
wise provided. 
SEC. 8. If such plaintiff claim the premises in question by virtue of 
any estate in remainder or reversion, he shall not be required to es­ 
tablish an immediate right to the possession of such premises; but if
a verdict be found in his favor, the time when he will be entitled to 
such possession, shall be specified in such verdict. 
SEC. 4. In such action of ejectment, a judgment obtained by either
party, shall be conclusive against the other party, as to the title es- 
tablished in such action; and also against all persons claiming under 
title accruing subsequently to the service of the notice
herein before provided. 
SEC. 5. If the plaintiff recover and be entitled to the immediate ~ 
session of the premises, he shall be entitled to a writ of posaession as
herein before provided, and may recover the value of the use and oc- 
cupation of the premises, by a suggestion on the record, in the same
manner as other plaintiffs in ejectment. . 
SEC. 6. If such plaintiff recover upon any title in reversion or re-
mainder, by virtue of which he shall not, at the time of such recove- 
-ry, be entitled to the immediate possession of the premises in contro­
versy, no writ of possession shall issue upon such judgment, nor shall 
any claim to damages be suggested upon the record ; but whenever 
such plaintiff, or those claiming under him, shall be entitled to such
poaession, an action of ejecbnent may be brought for the recovery 
thereof, as in other cases. 
SEC. 7. When the person intended to be proceeded against under the
provisions of this Title, shall not be a resident of this state, and shall 
not have been personally served with the notice specified in the second
section of this Title, the party seeking to avail himself of the provi-
sions of this Title, may present a petition to the supreme court, set- 
ting forth such facts, together with a copy of such notice ; which pe-
tition, together with the facts stated in such notice, shall be verified
by his affidavit. 
SEC. 8. Such affidavit shall also set forth, whether the party pro-
ceeded against has any agent or agents within this state, and the names 
and residence of such agents, if any are known. 
SEC. 9. The court may thereupon, in its discretion, make order for 
the eervice of such notice upon such agent or agents. 
! !O. Upon due proof of the service of such notice in the manner
directed, such court, upon the application of the party giving such no- 
tice, i( no good cause to the contrary appear, and if the party pro-
eeeded against shall not have appeared pursuant to the provisions of 
this Title, may direct a rule to appear and plead, as prescribed in the 
fourth section of this Title ; and thereafter suoh proceedings may be
had, and with the like effect, as in other cases. 
TITLE Ill. 
OF THE PARTITION OF LANDS OWNED BY SEVERAL PERSONS.
SEC. 1. Who may apply for partit.ioa; to what oonrta. 
a Gurdiana for miaon to be appointed.
8. Powen of guardiam; eff'eet of their act..
4. Bond to be ginn by guardiam,it. penalty, &c. 
G. Coutent. of petition for partition.
6. Penom wbo may be made putiea. 
7. Fact of unknown ownen, &c. to be ltated in petition.
8. Credit.on by judgment, mortpge,. &c. need not be partiea. 
9 . .Eft'ect of partition u to aucb crecliton.
JO. Copy of petition, &c. on whom and when to be se"cd. 
11, Notice oCpre1enting, to whom to be directed.
SEC. 2. Notice, &c. how published or served u to ablent or unknown partiea.
SEC. 3. Rule to appear and amwer, when to be granted.
SEC. 4. Notice of 1uch rule how served. 
SEC. 1. Wlaomay applll'lll4 ..,_.; how~ 
SEC. 8. Pleat by del'eDdanta; notioe of specW matters.
SEC. 7. BepUeaticm, ud fllrtller pladinp.
JS. Proeeedilap when eo-tuancy i, deaied by delallnt. 
19, Trial ol i11ae joined; amendinJ petition, &c. 
SEC. 8. Whea....., puti• may be mllde defaduatl.
IJ, Tuir ript to trial; triala la . 
SEC. 1. Proof ud abltnet ol title, in cue of defaalt.
SEC. 8. 
M. ProeeediDp ,.... ript, of w ...... be werWwl
SEC. 5. Coamaiaioaen to make putitiOD; rule therefor,
•. Coart to ,apply ftOUOMI in OGalllliaioMn. 
~. OatJa ofCCIIIUIUNioNnJ wllere ud wbea to be tlecl, 
a To make partition, or ntana tbat it oanaot be IIUde, 
SEC. 9. Ho,r to be IWle, lbaru how to be deeipeted, nneyon, k
IO. Report to be m..te, it. coateDta.
SEC. 1. All to meet, bat majority may act. 
.. Tlleirfeea ad ...... al putitiaa, how ........... ,....
SEC. 8. Bepon to be pn>Yed, &o, ud aied, 
k Setting uide report ad appointing aew eommilaioaen.
II. JadgmentoaOODflnaatioa or report; ita ef'eet. 
a Penou ud ea1e1 DOt at'eoted bJ tile jadgment.
ST. When premilea or put or them may be ordered to be 10ld. 
SEC. 8. Cout to.direct term, or credit ror certain portions.
•· How 1aoh credit to be aeeved. 
SEC. 0. Whea ud in wboae DUDU 1epuate NC111'itie1 to be taken.
SEC. 1. 8ecuitiea to whom to be delivered.
4 Rue nquiring clerk to NUeh for iaOIIIDbnmoee.
SEC. 8. To 1earcb {or and report inoumbrance1; expentu. 
"- Portion of money aridng on ale of incambered interelt, to be brought into comt
SEC. 5. Application by owner of inch interut, for 11UJDt7.
& Proeeedinp thereon to ucertain amount of incwnbrancu. 
a. Di1tn'bation AIDODI ineambnneen.
SEC. 8. hcumbnncu to be Ntbfied by clerk; apenHI. 
SEC. 9. Other putie1 not to be delayed by foregoing proceedinp.
IO. Sale al dower or other life eltatea in premi.e,.
61, Suh interut to pua by aach Ale. 
a Gro.1111m to be paid to owner, with hi, uaeot.
SEC. 1. Proeeedinp ikoa1eot be not giYeD. 
N. Proponicm to be melted in cWl'erent euea. 
u. Daty or coart WMD ownen or ,uch utatel are unknown. 
SEC. 8. Notioea or tale, by eommil1ionen, how giTen. 
,n. Mocle of eoDlhlotiDg .....
SEC. 8. Panbuu by COIDIDUlionen ancl.gurdiabl, Yoicl.
SEC. 9. Report of Nie, bo,r to be Jmde; ib CCJDteat,. 
SEC. 0. Older far COD.,..,.... • eoaftrmation of .ale. 
81, C.yeyacu to be reoorded; their ef'eet.
SEC. 1. Co.ti and espeuea, how ud to whca to be paid . 
.. Proeeeda of Nie how to be dlTidecl ud paid.
6'. Shana olknownbafimta, ho,rdi,poled of. 
SEC. 5. m..... of abHDt ud 1IUDOWD OW'lleN, 
SEC. 8. m.n. of tenaau ta dower, or for life, *cl. 
flT, Senrity to refimd, -1 be requ1recl Crum partiel.
SEC. 8. Seeuritiea to be taken in name of clerk, u:eept, &c . 
•. Daty of clerk to reeeiYe lDOIUel ud aceoant.
70, hvutmenta ho,r to be ...te; how diacbargecl, &c. 
n. Swta thereon, not to abate by cl.th of clerk. 
SEC. 2. Colt, of pu1itioa, bow U1eued ud collected. 
SEC. 1. Co.ta llpinlt petitioaen on nOIHUit, &c.
'7'- Remonlolproeeeclinp from~ pt .. , &e. to,apremeeom.
SEC. 5. W riu or error on jadgmenu in partition. 
SEC. 8. lammom ud .eyeruee of co-plaintiff', &c. mmeceuary. 
SEC. 1. Error may be U1igned by any one plaintiff', &c.
SEC. 8. Jlldgmeat apoa writ or error. 
SEC. 9. Power of chancery to decree partitiom and 1&les. 
80, ProoNclinp to be u herein before directed. 
SEC. 1. Enept that ulu may be by muten; amending pleldillp, h. 
SEC. 2. Taking bilb u eonf'u1ed.
SEC. 1. When compemation may be decreed. 
8'. F.l'ect of deereea or eoart.
SEC. 5. Appeala &om decreea. 
SEC. 8. Wlaen pudiD or in&nt may couat to putition.
SEC. 7. Order Oil report of gaardiua, for CODY8JUOU, 
EIJ. Uect ol deeda; infant. warda or eonrt, &c. 
SEC. 8. Applieadoa by eoamaitteea ol hmmca, &c. for partition. 
SEC. 0. Wbea eout to autlloriN nleuea to be gmn. 
SEC. 1. Ef'ect ol nch nleuea. 
9l. Proeeedhap when the ltate u eo-teDIDt with othen. 
II. Petitiam ucl DOtieea to be ..ned ma attonaey ..........
9t ProriaiOD rupeetjag eJailllla bured by limitatiou, &e.
SEC. 5. :meet oC thia tide 1lpoD penclillg proceedings. 
, I. When eeveral persons shall hold and be in the possession of
Jan
.I. hered' • , 
any ._, tenements or itaments, as jomt tenants, or as tenants
in common, in which one or more of them shall have estates of in- 
heritance, or for life or lives, or for years, any one or more of such 
persons, being of full age, may apply by petition to the supreme
court, or to the court of common pleas of the county or the mayor's
court of the city, where the premises are situated, for a division and
partition of such premises, according to the respective rights of the 
parties interested therein; and fur a sale of such premises, if it shall 
appear that a partition thereof cannot be made without great preju- 
dice to the owners.1 
' !. If it shall be represented to the court, by any party intending
to make such application, that there are any minors, who should be 
parties to the proceedings thereon, and it shall be satisfactorily prov-
ed to the court, that at least ten days' notice has been served on such 
minors as reside within this state, or upon their A»eral guardians, of
an intention to apply to such court for the order herein mentioned, 
such court shall thereupon appoint a suitable and disinteres~rson
to be guardian for one or more of such minors, whether the said mi- 
non shall reside in or out of this state, for the special purpose of tak- 
ing charge of the interests of such minors in relation to the proceed- 
ings for a partition. 
2
. 
I S. The guardians so appointed, and who shall give bond as here- 
in after directed, shall represent their respective minors in the pro- 
ceedings i>r partition hereby authorised, and their acts in relation 
thereto, ahall be binding on such minors, and shall be as valid as if 
done by 111ch minors after having arrived at full age.2 
SEC. 4. Every guardian 10 appointed, shall, before entering upon the
execution of his duties, execute a bond, in such penalty, and with 
auch IUl'ety, as the court shall direct, to the people of this state, con- 
ditioned for the faithful discharge of the trust committed to· such 
~rdian, and to render a just and true account of his guardianship, 
ID all courts and places when thereunto required ; and before any 
rule to plead, or any other subeeqttent rule or order shall be made,
the court shall be satisfied that such bond has been executed and 
filed in the office of its clerk. a 
5. The petition for a partition or sale of any such real estate, 
shall contain the following matters : 
1. It shall particularly describe the premises sought to be divided
or sold: 
2. It shall set forth the rights and titles of all persons interested
therein, so far as the eame are known to the petitioDer, including the 
interest of any tenant for years, for life, by the curtesy, or in dower,
and the persons entitled to the reversion, remainder or inheritance 
after the termination of any particular estate therein, and every per· 
son who, by any contingency contained in any devise, grant or other·
wise, may be or become, entitled to any beneficial interest in the pre­ 
mises: and, 
a. It shall be verified by affidavit. 
SEC. 6. E~ery person having any such interest as aforesaid, whether 
in posession or otherwise, and every person entitled to dower. in such 
premises, if the same has not been admeasured, may be made party to
auch petition. 
SEC. 7. In case any one or more of such parties, or the share or quan­ 
tity of interest of any of the parties be unknown to the petitioner, or 
be uncertain, or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance shall
depend upon an executory devise, or the remainder shall be a con­ 
tingent remainder, so that such parties can not be named, the ,ame
shall be set forth in such petition. 
4 
SEC. 8. It shall not be necessary to make any creditor having a lien on
the premises in question, or on any part thereof, by judgment, decree, 
mortgage or otherwise, a party to the proceedings, nor shall the parti­ 
tion of the premises alter, affect or impair the lien of such creditors, 
except in the cases provided for in the next section. 
SEC. 9. Where the lien is on the undivided interest or estate of any 
of the parties, such lien, if partition be made of the premises, &ha 
thereafter be a charge only on the share assigned to such -party, and 
such share shall be first charged with its just proportion of the t,Olts 
of the proceedings in partition, in preference to any such lien. 
SEC. 0. A copy of such petition, with notice that the same wi11 be 
presented to the court on some certain day in term, shall be served 
forty days previous to such term, on all the parties interested in such
lands or tenements, who shall not have joined in such petition, and 
on the '§Uealians of such as are minors, who shall have been appaint­ 
ed in the manner herein before directed. 
6 
]I 
SEC. 1. 'rhe- notice of such application shall be directed to all the
partie wm are known and whose interests are known, and to thoae 
who are known but whose interests are uncertain, contingent or un- 
known, by name, and generally to all others unknown, having ~r 
claiming any interest in such premises. 
6 
SEC. 1. If any parties, having such interest, are unknown, or if either
of the known parties, whether minors or of full age, reside out of this
s&ate, or can not be found therein, and such facts be made to appear 
to the COdrt by affidavit, the petition and notice may be served on sucla
ummowu or absent party, by publishing the same for three months 
JnYious to the presentation of such petition, once in each week, 
successively, in the state paper and in a newspaper printed in the 
coanty where the premises are situated, if there be any, and if there 
be DODe, then in a newspaper printed in the city of New-York, which 
shall be equivalent to a personal service on such known or unknown
parties. Or instead thereof, with respect to any known absent par- 
uch
• • nd · be ed 11 f th' 
ty, s petition a notice may serv persona y, out o 1s
state, forty days previous to its presentation, without publishing the 
same.&
~ IS. Upon the presentation of such petition, and due proof being 
made of the service or publication thereof, with notice as aforesaid, 
and of the facts justifying the mode of publication, the court shall, by
rule, order the parties interested in the premises, and who did not join 
in such petition, whether known or unknown, and whether the share
or interest is known or unknown, or whether they are, or may be- 
come, entitled to any beneficial interest in the premises in reversion,
remainder, or by any executory devise, contingency or otherwise, to 
appear and show title to the proportions which they may claim of the 
premises set forth in the said petition, and to answer the said petition 
within the usual time allowed for pleading in the said court . .,
SEC. 4. Notice of such rule, and all other notices in any subsequent 
oceedin 1 h
· · 11 di d be ed b 
pr gs, un ess ot erwise spec1a y irecte , may serv y
affixing the same in the office of the clerk of the court, which shall 
be equivalent to personal service on the party to be affected thereby. 
SEC. 5. Any person having any interest in the premises, or having 
any claim by which he may become interested at any future time, in
teversion, remainder, or by any executory devise, contingency or oth-
erwise, and whether such interest be present and vested or contingent, 
and whether such parties or their interest be known or unknown, 
may, within the time prescribed in such rule, or within such further
time as the court may allow for the purpose, appear and answer to 
the said petition as to a declaration. If such person be not named as 
a party in the petition, he may be admitted to appear and answer the 
same, u a de&ndant, by the court or by any judge thereof in vaca­
tion, upon his petition accompanied by an affidavit of his interest. 
SEC. 6. Any party appearing, may plead either separately or jointly,
with one or more of his co-defendants, that the petitioners or any of 
them, at the time of presenting such petition, were not in the poeaes­ 
sion of the premises in question, or any part thereof; or that the d&­
fendants or any of them did. not hold the premises together with the 
petitioners, at the time of the commencement of the proceedings, u
alleged in the petition ; and under the last mentioned plea, the defen­
dant pleading it, may.give notice of any special matter to sustain such
plea, and may give evidence thereof on the trial u if the same hid 
been pleaded. 
9 
SEC. 7. Replications and further pleadings may be had between the
parties respectively, according to the practice of the court, as in per·
sonal actions, until an issue or issues in law or in &ct, be joined be­
tween the said parties or some of them. 
9 
SEC. 8. Whenever the joint tenancy or tenancy in common of any
defendant shall be denied by a co-defendant, and it shall become ne-
ceuary to determine the same, in order to effect a complete and final 
partition, so far as the rights of the parties are concerned, the court
may direct an issue to be formed on the record, and may direct the
jury to inquire into, try and determine as well the tenancy of the de-
fendant so denied, as the other issues joined on such pleadings. 
SEC. 9. All issues so joined shall be tried, and the like proceedings
for the trial thereof shall be had, and bills of exception may be taken
and demurrers to evidence filed, and the court may set aside verdicts
and grant new trials therein, as in personal actions; and either before 
or after the trial of any such issue, the court may permit the petition 
and all subsequent proceedings to be amended, so as to represent truly 
the rights claimed by any party. 
9 
SEC. 0. The court may allow any amendment of the pleadings or
proceedings, so as to make defendant thereto, any person who sf!all
have appeared in the course of the proceedings, to be interested in the
premises, by any will, deed or grant from any person who is a defend·
ant in such partition, and who might originally have been made de­
fendant, if his interest had then existed or been known ; but no per·
son shall be so made defendant without forty days' notice of the mo­ 
tion to that effect being personally served on him, or published three
months, as in the case of an original application.!" 
SEC. 1. After any such amendment, any party whose rights are af. 
fected thereby, and who has not had an opportunity to sustalll JS 
claim, shall be entitled to have an issue made up and tried, to deter· 
8 
• hi 
•tuch right; and ·the court may, after .an amendment in any otb- 
er case, where it may be deemed proper, order a trial to be had.!'
~ .U. If the default of any of the defendants, whether known or 
unknown, altall have been entered, the court shall require the petitioa-
ers to exhibit proof of the.r title, and an abstract of the conveyances
by .wluch the same is held. Such proof may be taken in open court, 
or &if the clerk thereof, on a reference far that purpose. And in either 
cue, the proof given and the abstract furnished, shall be filed with
the clerl. 
11 
J IS. The co11rt shall ascertain, from the proofs so taken, in cue 
Ii a d•uk; or feom the confession, by plea, of the parties, if they ap-
peared; or from the verdict of the jury, by which any issue of MICt 
shall have been tried; and shall declare, the rights, titles and interest
of the parties to such proceedings, plaintiffs as well as defendants, so 
far as the same shall have appeared; and shall determine the right.I
of the said parties in such lands, tenements or hereditaments, and give 
jodpent that partition be made between such of them as shall have 
any rjght there.in, according to such rights. 
12 
J U. Hafter the uial of any such issues, or after judgment by de-
LoJt, fe • th • . h . h kno 
III con sston · or o erwrse, agamst t ose parties w o are wn,
the part or interest of any parties who shall not have pleaded in the 
ca•, whether known or unknown, in and to such premises, shall not
have appeared by the evidence in the cause, then the said court shall
give judgment that partition be made, so far as the rights or interests
of the parties who are known, and who have appeared in the said
cause, have been ascertained, and the residue of the premises shall re- 
main .tor the parties whose interests have not been ascertained, subject
to diriaion ~tween them at any future time.13 
SEC. 5. Whenever any judgment of partition shall be rendered as
aforesaid, the court shall, by rule, appoint three reputable freeholders, 
commiaioners, to make the partition so adjudged, according to the re-
spective rights and interests of the parties, as the same were ascertain- 
ed and determined by such court; and in such rule the court shall 
designate the part· or shares which shall remain undivided, for the
owners whose interests shall be unknown and not ascertained. 
SEC. 6. If the persons so appointed commissioners, or either of them, 
shall die, resign or neglect to serve, the court may, from time to time,
appoint others in their places. 
SEC. 7. The commissioners, before proceeding to the execution of 
their duties, shall severally be sworn or affirmed, before any officer
authorised to take affidavits, honestly and impartially to execute the 
truat reposed in them, and to make partition, as directed by the court; 
14 
which oath shall be filed with the clerk of the court, at, or before, the 
coming in of the report of such commissioners. u 
SEC. 8. The commissioners shall forthwith proceed to make partition, 
according to the said judgment of, the court, unless it shall appear to 
them, or any two of them, that partition of such real estate cannot be 
made, without great prejudice to the owners thereof, in which cue, 
they shall make a return of such fact to the court, in writing, under 
their hands. us 
SEC. 9. In making partition, the commissioners shall divide the said 
SEC. 2. The expenses of the commissioners, including the expenses 
of a surveyor and his assistants, when they shall be employ , 
be ascertained and allowed by the court; and the amount thereof, to­ 
gether with the fees allowed by law to the commissioners, shall be 
paid by the petitioners, and shall be allowed to them as part of the
costs to be taxed.18 
~ SS. The said report shall be proved or acknowledged before some
officer authorised to take the proof of deeds, in the same manner that 
deeds are required to be proved or acknowledged, to entitle them to 
be recorded, and shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the court." 
SEC. 4. On good cause shown, the court may set aside the report, and 
' • • ft be h shall
appoint new comrmssioners as o en as may necessary, w o 
proceed in like manner as above directed. 
SEC. 5. Upon any report of the commissioners being confirmed by
be 
the court, judgment shall thereupon be given, that such partition
firm and effectual forever, and such judgment shall be binding aud 
conclusive, 
• f th 
real estate, and allot the several portions, and shares thereo to e re-
spective parties, quality and quantity relatively considered by them, 
according to the respective rights and interests of the parties so ad­ 
judged by the court, designating the several shares and portions by 
posts, stones, or other permanent monuments; and they may employ 
a surveyor, with the necessary assistants, to aid them therein.16 
SEC. 0. The commissioners shall make a full and ample report of 
their proceedings, under the hands of any two of them, specifying 
therein the manner of executing their trust, and describing the land 
divided and the shares allotted to each party, with the quantity, cour­ 
ses and distances of each share, and a description of the posts, stooes 
or other monuments thereof, and the items of their charges.16 
SEC. 1. All the commissioners must meet together in the perform­ 
ance of any of their duties; but the acts of a majority so met, shall 
be valid. 
1. On all parties named therein, and their legal representatives,
who shall, at the time, have any interest in the premises divided, as 
•• 
edshall 
owners in fee, or as tenants for years, or as entitled to the reversion,
remainder or inheritance of such premises after the termination of any 
particular estate therein ; or who, by any contingency contained in 
any will or grant or otherwise, may be or may become entitled to any
beneficial interest in the premises ; or who shall have any interest in 
any undivided share of the premises, RS tenant for years, for life, by
the curtesy, or in dower: 
2. On all persons interested in the premises, who may be unknown,
to whom notice shall have been given of the application for partition, 
by such publication as is herein before directed : and,
a. On all other persons claiming from such parties, or persons or 
either of them.17 
SEC. 6. But such judgment and partition shall not affect any tenants,
or penons having claims as tenants, in dower, by the curtesy or for 
life, to the whole of the premises which shall be the subject of such
partition ; nor shall such judgment and partition preclude any person
except such as are specified in the last section, from claiming any
title to the · premises in question, or from controverting the title or in-
terest of the parties, between whom such partition shall have been 
made.18 
SEC. 7. If the commissioners 80 appointed, shall report to the court,
that the lands, tenements or hereditaments, of which partition shall 
have been directed as aforesaid, are so situated, or that any distinct lot, 
tract or portion thereof, is so situated, that a partition thereof cannot
be made, without great prejudice to the owners of the same; and if 
the court shall be satisfied that such report is just and correct, the 
O>Urt may thereupon, by a rule to be entered on the filing of the said
report, order the commissioners to sell the premises so situated, at pub-
lic auction, to the highest bidder.19 
, SS. The court shall direct, in such order, the terms of credit
whieh may be allowed, for any portions of the purchase money ofclit. 
which it shall think proper to direct the investment, and for such por-
tions of such purchase money, as are required by the provisions here-
in after contained, to be invested for the benefit of any unknown own-
ers, any infants, ~y parties out of the state, or any tenants for life, in
dower or by the curtesy. 
SEC. 9. The portions of the purchase money for which credit shall
ha
bee
J h 
,
ve n 80 allowe , s all always be secured at interest, by a mort- 
gage of the premises sold, by a bond of the purchaser, and by such oth-
er aecurity as the court shall prescribe. 
SEC. 0. The commissioners may take separate mortgages and other
securities, for such convenient shares or portions of the purchase mo- 
ney, u are directed by the court to be invested as aforesaid, in the 
name of the clerk ol the court and his sucee88Dl'S in office, or of lllY 
one of such clerks, and for such shares as any known owner of full 
age shall desire to have so invested, in the names of such owners. 
SEC. 1. Upon such sales being confirmed, as herein after mentioned,
th id • · h II d I' h th · 
e sai comrmssioners s a e ,ver sue mortgages or o er seeun- 
ties, to the clerk of the court, or to the known owners whose shares 
were so invested. 
SEC. 2. When commissioners shall have been appointed to make par- 
titi • th , 1 • • h 1 k f 
1 ion, any party m e suit may enter a rue, requmng t e c er o
the court to ascertain and report, whether the shares or interests in the 
premises, of the parties in such suit, are subject to any lien or incum­ 
brance, by judgment, decree or mortgage, or sale under execution, 
or otherwise. And if such rule shall not have been entered by any 
party, the court shall make an order to the same effect, before any or­ 
der for the sale of the premises, or any part thereof, shall be made.
SEC. 8. The clerk to whom such reference shall be made, shall im­ 
mediately cause the necessary searches to be made, in all proper offi­ 
ces in which incumbrances may by law be docketed, filed, registered 
or recorded, and shall report, with all convenient speed, the names of 
the creditors, the nature of the incumbrances, the dates thereof, and 
the seYeral amounts appearing to be due thereen. The clerk's fee
and the expenses, of such searches, shall be advanced to the clerk by 
the petitioners. 
SEC. 4. If it shall appear by such report, that thero are any existing
b h • • th • f party 
mcum ranees upon t e estate or mterest m e premises o any
named in the proceedings in the suit, the court shall, in the order of 
sale, direct the commissioners to bring into court, and pay to the clerk
thereof, the portion of the monies arising from the sale of the estate 
and interest of such party, after deducting the portion of the costs,
charges and expenses to which it shall be liable. 
SEC. 5. Such party may apply to the court to order such monies, or 
such part thereof as he shall claim, to be paid to him ; which appli· 
cation shall be accompanied, 
1. By his own affidavit, stating the true amount actually due on 
each incumbrance, the owner of such incumbrancc, and his residence,
as far as known to such party : 
2. By proof, by affidavit, of the due service of a notice on each 
owner of any incumbrance, of the intention to make such application, 
at least fourteen days previously. If such owner reside in this state, 
such notice shall be served personally, or if he be absent from his resi· 
dence, by leaving a copy there, with some person of proper age. If
such owner reside out of this state, such notice may be served on hiln 
personally, twenty days previously or by publishing the ame in ~e
state paper four weeks successively, once in ead1 week. 
SEC. 6. Upon lRlch application and proof of notice being ml!l(le, the
court shall proceed to hear the proofs and allegations of the parties. 
If any question of fact shall arise, which, in the opinion of the court,
cannot be satisfactorily determined without a trial by jury, the court 
shall award a feigned issue, to be tried as in other cues. The costs of 
,uch tria.J lhall be paid by the party failing; which payment ahall be 
enforced by attachment, as in other cases. 
SEC. 7. When the amount of existing incumbrances shall have been
ucertained, the court shall proceed to order a distribution of the mo- 
niet so brought into and remaining in court, among the several credi-
tors having such incumbrances, according to the priority thereof res­ 
pectively. 
SEC. 8. The clerk or other officer of the court by whom any such in-
cumbrance shall be paid off, shall procure satisfaction thereof to be 
acknowledged, in the form required by law, and shall cause such in­
cumbranee to be duly satisfied or cancelled of record, and shall defray 
the expenses thereof out of the portion of the monies in court belong-
ing to the party by whom such incumbrance was payable. 
SEC. 9. The proceedings to ascertain and settle the amount of incum-
brances as herein provided, shall not a1fect any other party in such 
suit for partition, nor delay the paying over or investing of monies to or 
for the benefit of any party upon whose estate in the premises there 
shall not appear to be any existing incumbrances.
SEC. 0. Whenever the estate of any tenant in dower, or by the curte- 
sy, or ·ror life, to the whole or any part or share of the premises in 
question, has been admitted by the parties, or ascertained by the court,
to be existing at the time of the order for such sale, and the person 
entitled to such estate has been made a party to the proceedings, the
court shall first consider and determine, under all the circumstances 
of the case, whether such estate ought to be excepted from such sale,
or whether the same should be sold; and in making such determina- 
tion, they shall_have regard to the interests of all the partiN.20 
SEC. 1. If a sale of the premises including such estate, shall be or-rs. 
dered, the estate and interest of every such tenant or person shall 
pea thereby ; and· the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, · shall hold
such premises free, and discharged from all claims by virtue of any 
such estate or interest, whether the same be to any undivided share
of a joint tenant; or tenant in common, or to the whole or any part of 
the premises sold.20 
I 5!. Upon such sale being made of any such interest or estate, 
the court shall direct the payment of such sum in gross, out of the 
PN>ceeds thereof, to the person entitled to such estate in dower, te- 
blbty by the curtesy, or tenancy for life, as shall be deemed, upon 
the principles of law, applicable to annuities, a reasonable satisfac­
tion for such estate or interest, and which the person so entitled shall 
consent to accept in lieu thereof, by an instrument under seal, duly 
acknowledged or proved in the manner that deeds are required to be 
proved, to entitle them to be recorded.21 
SEC. 8. In case no such consent be given at or before the coming in 
of the report of sale by the commissioners, then the court shall ucer­
tain and determine what proportion of the proceeds of such sale, after 
deducting all expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to be in­ 
vested for the benefit of the person entitled to such estate or interest 
in dower, by the curtesy, or for life ; and shall order the same to be 
brought into court, for that purpose.~1 
SEC. 4. The proportions of the proceeds of such sale, shall be ascer- 
ed d d • ed • th 1 l". 1 
tam an etermm , m e severa cases as 101 ows : 
1. If an estate in dower shall have been included in such order of
Bale, its proportion shall be one-third of the proceeds of the sale of 
the premises, or of the sale of the undivided share in such premiles, 
upon which such claim of dower existed : 
2. If an estate by the curtesy, or other estate for life, shall be in­ 
cluded in such order of sale, its proportion shall be the whole pro­
ceeds of the sale of the premises, or of the sale of the undivided share 
thereof, in which such estate shall be :
And in all cases, the proportion of the expenses of the proceedings 
shall be deducted from the proceeds of such sale.
SEC. 5. If the persons entitled to any such estate in dower, by the 
curtesy or for life, be unknown, the court shall take order for the pro- 
tect.ion of the rights of such persons, in the same manner, as far as
may be, as if they were known and had appeared. 
SEC. 6. The commissioners shall give notice of any sale to be made 
by them, for the same time and in the same tnanner as is required by 
law on sales of real estate by sheriffs on execution. 
SEC. 7. The terms of such sale shall be mrule known at the time; 
and if the premises consist of distinct buildings, farms or lots, they 
shall be sold separately. · 
SEC. 8. Neither of the said commissioners nor any person· for the 
' · di 
benefit of either of them, shall be interested in the purchase, nor • 
reedy nor indirectly purchase any of the premises sold, nor shall any 
guanlian of any infant party in such suit, purchase, or be interested 
in the purchase of, any lands being the subject of such suit, except f>r
the benefit or in behalf of such infant ; and all sales contrary to the 
provisions of this section shall be void.
SEC. 9. After completing such sale, the commissioners shall repart 
the same to the court on their oath, with a description of the diferent 
parcels of land sold to each purchaser, the name of such purchaser,
and the price bid by him; which report shall be filed in the court.2i 
SEC. 0. If such sales be approved and confirmed by the court, an or-
der shall be entered, directing the commissioners, or any two of them, 
to execute conveyances pursuant to such sales; which they are here­
by authorised to do. u 
SEC. 1. Such conveyances so executed, shall be recorded in the 
county where the premises are situated ; and shall be a bar, both in
law and equity, against all persons interested in such premises in any
way, who shall have been named as parties in the said proceedings; 
and against all such persons and parties as were unknown, if notice 
shall have been given of the application for partition, by such publi-
cation as is herein before directed ; and against all other persons
claiming from such parties, or either of them. u 
SEC. 2. The costs and expenses of the proceedings, shall be deduct- 
ed from the proceeds of every sale made by the commissioners ; and
shall be by them, in the first instance, paid to the petitioners or their 
attorney. SI . 
~ 6S. The proceeds of every such sale, after deducting the costs, 
ahall be divided, among the parties whose rights and interests shall
have been sold, in proportion to their respective rights in the premi- 
ses; and the shares of such of the said parties as are of full age, shall 
be paid to them or their legal representatives, by the commissioners,
or shall be brought into court for their use. 
21 
SEC. 4. Where any of such known parties are infants, the court may 
in its discretion, direct the share of such infant to be paid over to the
general guardian, or to be invested in permanent securities at inte- 
rest, in the name and for the benefit of such infant.
SEC. 5. Where any of the parties whose interests have been sold, 
are absent from the state, without legal representatives in this state,
or are not known or named in the proceedings, the court shall direct 
the shares of such parties to be invested in permanent securities at in­ 
terest,' for the benefit of such parties, until claimed by them or their
lcpl representatives. 
24
• . 
SEC. 6. Where the proceeds of a sale, belonging to any tenant in 
do
, 
Wer, or by the curtesy, or for life, shall be brought into court, as 
herein before directed, the court shall direct the same to be invested 
in permanent securities at interest, so that such interest shall annual-
ly be paid to the parties entitled to such estates, during their lives re­ 
Bpectivel y. 24 
SEC. 7. The court may, in its discretion, require all or any of the 
Plrties, before they shaU receive any share of the monies arising from 
8UCla ale, to give security to the satisfacuon of such court, to refWld 
the aaid share with interest thereon, in case it &ball thereafter appear
that such party was not entitled thereto.26 
SEC. 8. Where any security is directed to be taken 'hy a court, or
1lllf investment to be made, or any security mil be taken by com­
missioners on the sale of any real estate as herein before directed, ex- 
cept where provision shall be made for taking the same in the name
of any Imo~ owner, the bonds, mortgages, or other evidences there­ 
-Of shall be taken in the name of the clerk of the court, and his sae­ 
Q90r in office, who shall hold the same by virtue of their respective
-0ffioes, and shall deliver them to their successors. 
SEC. 9. 'Such clerks shall receive the interest or principal of any
h beco d --..l I • the - ... -l:nn 
8UID8 QS t ey me ue, iUAl app y or re-invest same, -..uvaUIM6 
to the circumstances of the case, as tlae court shall direct; and aball, 
once in every year, ~nder to the court an aCC(?_µnt ~ ,writing. and on
oath, of all monies received by them, and of the application thereef.; 
,8'MI upoa ,-ny neglect to render such account, and u~. '!Pl. Pii81c 
pljcation of any monies received, the court shall suspend such clerk
from exercising the duties of his office, and shall immediately report
his delinquency to the governor, to the end that he may be removed 
by the governor and senate. 
SEC. 0. All investments and re-investments under the provisione of
this Title, shall be made in the public stocks of the United S~ or
of this state, or on bond and mortgage upon unincumbered real estate, 
of at least double the value of such investment ; and no such secu­ 
rity, bond, mortgage, or other evidence of such investment,' shall be
discharged, transferred or impaired, by any act of the clerk, without
the order of the court, entered in the minutes thereo£ 
SEC. 1. Any person interested in such investments or securities, 
may, with the leave of the court, prosecute the same in the name of
the existing clerk ; and no suit shall be abated by the death, removal
from office, or resignation of the clerk to whom such evidences were 
executed, or of any of his successors. 
SEC. 2. When final judgment for partition shall be rendered, the
hall l di d h f th ' d h ' th 
court s a so a gu ge eac o e parties concerne t erein, o er
than the petitioners, to pay to such petitioners, a proportion of the 
costs and charges of the proceedings, to be ascertained by the court,
according to the respective rights of the parties, and the proportion of
such costs assessed upon the unknown owners, to be chargeable on
the part remaining undivided; and upon such judgment, execution
may issue as in personal actions, and may be levied on the property
oC the parties respectively charged with such costs, and upon any 
share or part of the premises allotted on any such division, to any 
owner unknown or not named, and upon every portion remaining
andivided, for the proportion adjudged to be paid by such owners or 
chargeable to the· part remaining undivided. And a sale of such 
JnJllll88 therHpOD ahall be as valid as if such unknown owner 'had 
Ileen named in the proceedings and in such execution. 
26 
SEC. 8. If the petitioners for any partition, shall become non-suit, or
81dfer a discontinuance, or a verdict shall pass against them, or judg- 
ment shall be rendered against them on demurrer, they shall pay costs, 
to be reoovered and collected as in personal actions.
SEC. 4. Any proceedings for partition commenced in the court of 
common pleas, or in a mayor's court, may be removed into the su- 
pre'!}e court by writ of certiorari, to be allowed by any of the jus-
tices thereof, if the same be served before any juror shall be sworn to 
try any issue joined in such proceedings, or before judgment be given,
that partition shall be made ; and upon such removal, the like pro- 
ceedings shall be had as if the petition had been originally presented
to the supreme court. ST 
SEC. 5. Upon any final judgment rendered, that partition be made,
or confirming partition, or for the sale of any premises, or confirming 
such sale, a writ of error may be brought by any of the parties to
auch judgment, jointly or separately, and without the consent of any
co-plaintiff" or co-defendant, within the same time and under the like
restrictions, as in cases of personal actions. 
28 
.I ,s. It shall not be necessary for a plaintiff or defendant bringing
h 
• d I • A:.a• o-d ~ d
sue writ, to summon an sever any co-p amnn or c eren anL 
SEC. 7. Error may be. assigned upon such writ for any erroneous ad- 
• d• • th • h f f h . d l'. d 
JU ication upon e rig ts o any o t e respective e,en ants or re-
spective plaintiffs, and the court shall direct the person whose inte-
rest is affected by such adjudication, to plead to such assignment of 
erron, and to appear in such cause as a defendant in error. 
SEC. 8. The court may give judgment either for affirmance or re- 
venal, in part or in whole, with costs to be paid by either of the par- 
ties, or by any one or more defendant or plaintiff, to his co-defendant 
or c.,plaintitf.18 
SEC. 9. The court of chancery shall have the same power, upon pe- 
tition or bill filed in that court, to decree partitions and sales of lands,
tenements and hereditaments, as is herein given to the common law
courta in like cues. 
21 
. J so. The same notice shall be given, served and published, and 
Yeri.&ed b1 affidavit, guardians of minors shall be appointed, the same 
rul8' u to parties, shall apply, and the like proceedings shall be had, 
u herein before directed, except as in the next section provided. 
29 
SEC. 1. Instead of appointing commissioners in the first instance, to
make partition, if it shall appear by the report of a master or other- 
wise, that the premises, or any part of them arc so circumstanced
that a partition thereof can not be made without great prejudice to 
the owners, the court may order a sale of such premises at public
auction, by one of the masters, upon the same notice as herein before
directed in sales by commissioners, which sales shall be made in the
manner herein before prescribed ; and on the master's report being
confirmed, he shall execute conveyances to the purchasers at such
sales, which shall have the same effect as if executed by commission- 
ers, according to the foregoing provisions. The court may in like
manner as above provided, amend the petition or bill, and other plead­ 
ings, with the like saving to the parties affected thereby, and may
award one or more issues to try any fact contested by the parties.10 
SEC. 2. Any bill or petition may be taken as confessed in the court
of chancery, in the same manner as judgment by default may be en­
tered in the supreme court, according to the practice of courts of equi­ 
ty in other cases. 
11 
SEC. 8. Whenever partition shall be decreed by a court of equity, if 
h II h , h ' 
It s a appear t at it can not be made equal between t e parties,
without prejudice to the rights and interests of some of them, the
court may decree compensation to be made by one party to the other,
for equality of partition, according to the equity of the case. 
SEC. 4. The final decree of such court for the partition or sale of
any premises, made upon such petition and proceedings aforesaid, and 
every partition or sale made thereupon, shall be binding and conclu­
sive on all parties named in the said proceedings, and on all parties
interested in the premises, who or whose interest may be unknown,
and their legal representatives, and all claiming under them, as if
such sales, partition and proceedings had taken place, and judgment
had been rendered thereon in the supreme court, under the foregoing 
provisions. 
81
· 
SEC. 5. Any party to such decree, and any party interested in the
premises, though not named in the pleadings, who would be entitled 
to bring a writ of error, if the proceedings were in the supreme court,
may appeal from any decree or order of the said court, upon any such
proceedings, within the same time and under the like regulations, as 
in other cases. 
31 
SEC. 6. Whenever it shall appear satisfactorily, by due proof, or on
h f • h Ids 
t e report o a master to the court of chancery, that any infant o
real estate in joint tenancy or in common, or in any other manner 
which would authorise his being made a party to a suit in partition,
and that the interest of such infant or of any other person concerned
therein, requires that partition of such estate should be made, such 
, 
31 
court may direct and authorise the general guardian of such infant to 
agree to a division thereof, or to such a part of the said estate, as in
the opinion of the court shall be incapable of partition, or as shall be
most for the interest of. the infant to be sold. 
82 
SEC. 7. Such guardian shall report to the court, on oath, the parti-
tion or sale so made by him, and if the same shall be approved and
confirmed by the court, an order shall be entered authorising such
guardian to execute conveyances of the right of such infant to such 
part of the said estate as shall have been sold, to the purchaser there­
o~ or to execute releases of the right of such infant to such part of 
the said estate, as in the said division falls to the shares of the other
joint tenants, or tenants in common. 
32 
SEC. 8. Such deeds shall be as valid and effectual to convey the
share and part of such infant, as if the same had been executed by such 
infant after arriving at full age. And in case of a sale of any parl of
such estate, the infant shall be deemed a ward of the court, and such 
order shall be taken as the court may direct, for securing, investing
and applying the proceeds of the sale and requiring security from the 
guardian for that purpose. 
32 
SEC. 9. Whenever it shall appear to the court of chancery, on the
application of any committee of any idiot, lunatic, or person mentally 
incapable of managing his affairs, holding any real estate in joint te-
nancy, or in common, or in any other manner, to authorise his being 
made party to a suit in partition, that the interest of such idiot, lunatic
or other person as aforesaid, or of any of the parties interested in such 
estate, requires a partition thereof, it shall be referred to a master in 
chancery, to inquire iilto and report upon the circumstances. 
SEC. 0. Upon the coming in of the report, and a hearing and exami-
nation of the matter, the court may authorise such committee to agree 
to a partition of such estate, and to execute releases of the right of
such lunatic, idiot, or other person as aforesaid, in and to the share
of such estate falling to the other joint tenants, or tenants in common. as 
SEC. 1. Such releases shall be as valid and effectual to convey the 
share of such lunatic, idiot or other person of unsound mind, as if the 
!IIDe had been executed by them respectively when of sound mind and
understanding, and for a valuable consideration. 
18 
, 92: Where any lands or tenements thall be held by the people of
this state, and by any individuals as tenants in common, proceedings 
for the partition thereof may be had against the people of this state, in
the supreme court or in the court of chancery, in the same manner as 
against individuals, and the like orders, decrees, and judgments shall 
be had therein. 
84 
33 
SEC. 8. The petition and all other notices requfred to be eerved ill
other cases, shall be served on the atrorney-general, who shall appear 
in behalf of the state, and attend to its interests. 
TITL·E IV. 
OF THE WRIT OF NUISANCE.
SEC. 1. Common law remedy retained. 
2. Proceedingl in cue of tnmafer oC DuiAaee.
S. Form of the writ of nui,ance • 
.t. Writ how to be ,e"ed.
5. Proceeding1 if defendant make default, &:c. 
6. Trial of i11ue1 of &ct, Tiew, and uaeasing damlgu. 
7. Judgment in nllllallce for plaintiff. 
86 
SEC. 4. The authority hereby given to proceed Cor the partition of 
real estate, shall not authorise the revival or prosecution of any claim
to lands which would or might otherwise be barred by any statute of li­
mitations, or by the acqniescence·of any party having any suc~dadn.11 
SEC. 5. Proceedings in partition which may be pending when this 
Title becomes a law, shall not be invalidated hereby ; but any pro­
ceedings to be had upon any suit already commenced or hereafter to
be brought, after this Title shall take effect, shaU be conducted 8(} 
cording to the foregoing provisions. 
~ I. Tho common law remedy by writ of nuisance is retained 81 
heretofore accustomed, subject to the provisions herein contained.
SEC. 2. In cases of nuisance, the plaintiff shall not go '\Vithout rerne· 
dy, because the land is transferred to another ; but in such cue the
party by whom the nuisance was erected, and he to whom it was 
transferred, shall both be named as defendants in ·the writ." 
~ S. The writ of nuisance shall be substantially in 'the foDowing
form : 
" The People, &c. to the sheriif, &c. Whereas A. B. has ~m­
plained to us, that C. D. unjustly has raised a certain dam, [or 'a 
certain pool,' or 'a certain house,' or' thrown down·a certain hedge,' 
ltc. es the case 'may be.] in the town of in your county, to
the nuisance of the freehold of the said A. B. ; we do therd>re com­ 
mand you, that you summon the said C. D. that he be before our,&c.
at, &c. on, &c. to answer the said A. B. in the premises. And have
you then there this writ. Witness, &c." 
SEC. 4. The writ shall be served on or before the ·retum day thereof, 
on the defendant personally, if he· can be found, by d~liverQJg to him 
a copy thereof. If the defendant can not be found within. the counly, 
the writ may be served by leaving a copy at his dwelling-house, with
any person of proper age found therein. The copy to be delivered 
t 
ahall, in all cases, be rertified by the officer serving it, and hi shall 
atpecify in bis return the mode in which the service was made. 
SEC. 5. If the defendant shall not appear according to the rules of the
eourt, or shall make default after appearance, a writ of inquiry mall 
issue to the sheriff" of the proper county, commanding him to go to the
place where the nuisance is alleged to exist, and by the verdict of 
jury, to inqui?e thereof; and of the damages occasioned thereby, and
on the return of such inquest, the plainillf shall have judgment. 
SEC. 6. If an issue of fact be joined in the action, it shaUnot be De-TriaJ,_Yiew, 
ceasary for the jury to view the nuisance complained of, unless the::;:."' 
oour&, upon the .application of ·the parties, or of one of them, and on 
good came shown~ shall make order therefor. H no sum order be
made, the issue so joined, shall be tried in like manner as i8IUel el 
&ct, in other actions. And in all cases, the jury that iDquire of the
nuisance, shall also, if they find for the plaintiff, assess the damages 
occasioned thereby. 
SEC. 7. The judgment upon a writ of nuisance, in case the plaintiff
shall prevail, shall be as heretofore accustomed, that the nuisance be 
removed, and that the plaintiff recover the damages oca1Sioned there- 
by. 
OF WASTE. 
SEC. 1. Guardians and eerta.in tenanta liable to action for wa.te. 
2. Tenant liable for wute done by bia u1ignee. 
8. J omt tauts and tbo8e in common liable for wa.te.
4. Wllea. bein may maintain actiou for ,vaste.
&. Flnt proeeu to be 11111U11C1D1; its form. 
6. 8ammGu, when and how to be senecl. 
7, When special order for pile to plead necessary.
8. Proeeedlngt" if deCeadant make default, &c.
9. Trial of US1Ul of act; TieWj UHIIIDent Of damage,. 
SEC. 0. J adgm.ent for plaintiff' not being joint tenant, &c. 
SEC. 1. Joint taat, Ice. may eleet to recover damages or ba,e partition. 
U. Jadgmat for partition to be given, if elected.
SEC. 1. ProoeediDga thereon to efl'ect partition. 
SEC. 4. Commusionen to be appointed. 
SEC. 5. Their daty in making partition. 
SEC. 8. Jadgment OD their report, it, eff'ect; cost,.
SEC. 7. Wba ealeto bemader proeeed1 how divided.
SEC. 8. Wha ooart may nay defendut Crom doing wute. 
SEC. 1. Power of court to enforce order. 
TITLE V. 
m. Puehuer of 1and8 under execution may sue for wute. 
U & la Certain acta by lawful occupant or auch land, not to be deemed wute.
• & It W ute of land sold by execution, how prevented .
.. Proeeedinp f'or waste done after order 11ened. 
a When aotice to sbew caue, to be given.
SEC. 7. Commitment for Tiolating order. 
SEC. 8. Defendant to be committed to cloee eu1tody. 
SJI. fflltn defendat may be diacbargecl OD giring bond. 
SEC. 1. If any guardian or any tenant by the curtesy, tenant in dower,
or for term of life or years, or the assigns of any such tenant, shall 
commit waste during their several estates or terms, of the houses,
gardens, orchards, lands or woods, or of any other thing belonging to
the tenements so held, without a special and lawful license in writ- 
ing so to do, they shall respectively be subject to an action of waste. is 
2 .. In case any such tenant shall let or grant his estate, and still
retain possession of the same, and commit waste, the party entitled to 
the reversion of the tenements, may maintain his action of waste
against such tenant. 
89 
SEC. 8. If one joint tenant or tenant in common, shall commit waste
of the estate held in joint tenancy or in common, he shall be subject 
to an action of waste, at the suit of his co-tenant or tenants. •0 
4. An heir whether he be within or of full age, may maintain
an action for waste done in the time of his ancestor, as well as in his
own time.'1 
SEC. 5. The first process in the action of waste, shall be a summons,
which shall be made out substantially in the following form: 
"The people, &c. to the sheriff, &c. We command you that you
summon A. B. that he be before, &c. at, &c. on, &c. to show where­
fore be has committed waste, to the injury of C. D. of a certain dwell­
ing-house and garden, situated in the town of in the said county
of , [ describing the premises according to their actual situation,
and with the same certainty as in this Chapter before required in de­ 
clarations in ejectment,] and which said premises the said A. B. holds
in dower, of the inheritance of the said C. D. [or' which the said A.
B. holds as tenant for years or otherwise,' as the case may be.] And
have you then there this precept. Witness, &c." 
SEC. 6. Every such summons shall be served on or before the return
day thereof, on the defendant personally, if he can be found, by deli- 
vering to him a copy thereof. If the defendant can not be found with­
in the county, the summons may be served Ly leaving a copy at his
dwelling-house on the premises wasted, if there be one, with any per­
son of proper age found therein. The copy to be delivered shall in
all cases be certified by the officer serving it. 
SEC. 7. But where the summons was served in any other manner than
upon the defendant personally, no rule to plead shall be entered, with-
out the special order of the court. 
SEC. 8. If the summons be returned duly served, and the defendant
shall not appear according to the rules of the court, or shall make 
default after appearance, a writ of inquiry shall issue to the sheriff of
the proper county, commanding him to go to the place wasted, and
by the verdict of a jury, to inquire of the waste done and of the dama- 
ges occasioned thereby ; and on the return of such inquest, the plain- 
tiff' shall have judgment.
SEC. 9. If an issue of fact be joined in the action, it shall not be neces-Tna1,_.;-. 
sary for the jury to view the premises alleged to be wasted, unless
the court, upon the application of the parties, or of one of them, upon 
good cause shown, shall make order therefor. If no such order
made, the issue so joined shall be tried in like manner as issues of fact
in other actions. And in all cases, the jury that inquire of the waste 
done, shall also assess the damages occasioned thereby.
SEC. 0. If the action be brought by any other than a joint tenant 
tenant in common, and if the plaintiff prevail therein, the judgment
shall be, that the plaintiff recover the place wasted, and treble the 
damages found by the jury.42 
SEC. 1. If the action be brought by a tenant in common, or by
joint tenant, against his co-tenant, and the plaintiff recover judgment 
therein, he shall be entitled, at his election, either to take judgment
for treble the damages found by the jury, or to have partition made· 
of the premises so held in common or joint tenancy. · 
SEC. 2. If he elect to have partition made, the court, upon the com- 
ing in of the verdict of the jury, shall give judgment that partition be
made. 
~ IS. If the respective rights and interests of the parties have not
been ascertained or admitted, the plaintiff shall file a suggestion set- 
ting forth the same, as in a petition for partition, and praying for par-
tition ; to which the defendant shall plead, and the same proceedings 
shall be had thereon, in all respects, as provided in the third Title
this Chapter. 
SEC. 4. When the rights and interests of the parties shall have been
ascertained, the court shall appoint commissioners to make partition 
who shall proceed, in all respects, as prescribed in the said third Ti-
tle, except as herein otherwise provided. 
SEC. 5. The commissioners shall, in the first place, deduct from the
share or portion of the defendant, the amount of the damages found by
the jury, unless they shall have been paid by the defendant, and shall 
make partition, so as to allot to the plaintiff so much of such share, as 
will compensate him for such damages remaining unpaid, and they
shall proceed and divide the residue equal1y and justly between the 
parties, according to their respective rights. 
SEC. 6. Upon the report of the commissioners being confirmed, judg-
ment shall be rendered, that such partition be final and effectual be- 
tween the parties. Such judgment shall have the like effect as
judgment in proceedings for partition; and the costs, from the filing 
of the suggestion, shall be ascertained and paid in the same propor­ 
tions, and may be collected in the same manner •. 
SEC. 7. If the commissioners report that the premises are so situated 
that a partition thereof cannot be made, a sale shall be ordered in the
like cues, and the same proceedings in all respects, shall be bad
thereon, as provided in the said third Title of this Chapter, and with 
the like effect; except that the amount of damagea weeaed by the 
jury, and the plaintiff's costs in the action of waste, to the time of 
filing the suggestion, shall be deducted from the portion C)f the pro­ 
ceeds of such sale belonging to the defendant, and shall be paid to the 
plaintiff: 
SEC. 8. After tJie commencement of any action. for the recovery of 
. 
land, or for the recovery of the possession of land, the defendant shall
not make any waste of the land in demand, pending the suit; and if
111ch defendant shall commit waste, the court in which the suit is 
pending, shall have power, on the application of the plaintiff, to make
an order restraining the defendant from the commission of any further 
waste thereon. 
41 
SEC. 9. The court making such order, shall have the same power to 
attach and commit the defendant for any violation thereof, that is pos­
&eSBed by the court of chancery upon the violation of an injunction 
to stay waste, issued by that court. 
SEC. 0. Whenever any lands or tenements shall be sold by virtue of 
• • ed • dgm d th to 
an execution, 188U upon any JU ent or ecree, e person 
• ch 
whom a conveyance may be executed by the sheriff, pursuant to su 
ale, may maintain an action of waste against any person who may
have been in possession of the premises so conveyed, after the sale 
thereof; for any waste committed on such premises, after such sale. 
SEC. 1. B~t no person lawfully entitled to the possession of any 
premiles IO aold, shall be liable to any such action, for doing either 
oC the acts authorised in the next section. 
, U. Any person entitled to the possession of lands or tenements
fro 
sold under execution, may, until the expiration of fifteen months m
the time of such sale, use and enjoy the same, as follows, without be­
ing deemed guilty oC waste : 
1. He may, in all cases, use and enjoy the premises sold, in like
manner, and for the like purposes, in and for which they were used 
and applied, prior to such sale, doingno permanent injury to the free-
~: . 
SEC. 2. IC the premises sold were buildings, or any other erections, be 
may make necessary repairs thereto ; but he shall make no alterations 
in the form or structure thereof: 
a. If the premises sold were land, he may use and improve the 
same, in the ordinary course of husbandry ; but he shall not be en- 
titled to any crops growing thereon, at the expiration of the said fif-
teen months : 
,. He may apply any wood or timber on such land, to the neces­ 
sary reparation of any fences, buildings or erections, which may have 
been thereon at the time of the sale : 
6. If the land sold is actually occupied by such person, he may 
take necessary fire-wood therefrom, for the use of his family.
SEC. 3. If the person against whose property such execution shall 
, • , 
have been issued, or any person who may be m possession of the pre- 
mises so sold, shall, at any time after the sale of such premises, and 
before the time allowed for redeeming the same, do any act of waste
thereon, or shall threaten or make preparations to commit waste there- 
on, the purchaser of such premises, or his authorised agent, may ap- 
ply by petition to the chancellor, or to any circuit judge or supreme 
court commissioner, or to the first judge of the county courts of any 
county, for an order restraining such wrong-doer from the commission 
of any further waste upon such premises. 
44 
SEC. 4. If the officer to whom application shall be so made, shall be
satisfied by due proof, that waste has been actually committed by the
person against whom the application is made, or that the same has 
been threatened, or that preparations for committing it have been 
made, by such person, such officer shall grant an order restraining 
such person from the commission of any waste on the premises so
mld.44 
SEC. 5. If the person against whom any such order shall be made, 
shall 
aft th 
. f th f . . ' I 
, er e service o a copy ereo , commit any waste m vio a- 
tion of the said order, he shall be liable to be proceeded against and 
punished in the same manner as for violation of an injunction to stay
wute, issued out of the court of chancery ; and for that purpose the
officer who may have granted any such order, shall possess the same
power and jurisdiction as the chancellor.44 
SEC. 6. When complaint shall be made of the violation of any such
order to restrain waste, the court or officer may order notice to be 
given to the person complained of, to shew cause why he should not 
be committed, if from the circumstances of the case they shall judge 
such order expedient. 
SEC. 7. Upon satisfactory proof of such violation, such court or offi- 
·'--1( . th h itf f h , . h
cer awt Ul8Ue a warrant to e s er o t e county, reciting sue or- 
der and the proof of the violation thereof, and thereby commanding
such sheriff to commit such defendant to close confinement, for such 
term of time, not more than one year, as shall be deemed expedient." 
SEC. 8. The sheriff' shall execute such warrant accordingly, and 
ahall .commit the person named therein, without allowing him the 
liberties of the jail. 
SEC. 9. Such warrant may be superseded, and such person may be 
discharged by the court or officer committing him, upon receiving a 
bond, in such penalty and with such sufficient sureties, as such court
or officer may approve, to the person applying for the warrant of
commitment, conditioned 'that such prisoner shall not commit any 
waste on such premises ; which bond shall be delivered to such appli­
cant for his use, and to be prosecuted by him for any breach of the 
condition thereof. 
OF TRESPASS ON LANDS.
81:c. I. Treble clamagea to be reco-rered for ceJtain treepu,u. 
2. Cue, in which ,ingle damagea only to be reco-rered.
8. J uat nlae or timber taken for roada or briclgu, only to be reco,eNld. 
4. Treble damage• by penom forcibly outed, &c. 
~ I. Every person who shall cut down or carry otf, any wood, un­ 
derwood, trees or timber, or shall girdle or otherwise despoil any 
trees, on the land of any other person, without the leave of the owner
thereof, or on the land or commons of any city or town, without hav­ 
ing any right or privilege in such commons, and without license from
the corporation or proper officers of such city or town, shall forfeit
and pay to the owner of such land, or to such city or town, treble the 
amount of the damages which shall be assessed therefor in an action
of trespass, by a jury, or by a justice of the peace in cases provided 
by law.45 
SEC. 2. If upon the trial of any such action, it shall appear that the
trespass ~ i88ual and involuntary ; or that the defendant had proba­
ble cause to believe that the land on which such trespass was com­
mitted, was his own ; or that such wood, trees, or timber were taken 
for the purpose of making or repairing any public road or bridge, 'by 
the authority of a commissioner or overseer of highways; judgment
shall. be given to recover only the single damages assessed by the 
jury.45 
TITLE VI. 
SEC. 8. Nothing in either of the preceding ~ctions shall authorise 
any person to recover more than the just value of any timber taken
for the making or repairing any public roads or bridges. 
0
' 
SEC. 4. If any person be disseised, ejected or put out of any lands or 
• I'. "bl be" b ft h I 
tenements, m ~ torcr e manner, or mg put out, e a erwards o -
den and kept out by force, or with strong hand, he shall be entitled to 
maintain an action of trespass, and shall recover therein treble the 
damages a,eessed by the jury or by a justice of the peace, in cases
provided by law.46 
GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNINQ ACTIONS RE ... ~TlNG TO REAL
PROPERTY. 
SEC. 1. Revenionen, &c. when to be admitted u partiea. 
Z. Aetion 'bynTenioner, &c. after default of tenant. 
a. Batitutioa llow made OD revenal of jadpaat. 
4. When wife may be admitted to defend alone. 
ts. W-ue to recover land lost by default of hu,band.
6. Becoftria of'-8Dta for life, &c. YOid u to rennion, &e. 
7. Butitution to be awarded to renn~onen, &c. 
8. Esecutiona not to be avoided by fejgned recoverie,. 
9. Leueea for yean may f'altily rccoyeriu.
SEC. 0. Bemediea ofpartiu recOYeri.ag againat lea,ee, &c. (or wute.
SEC. 1. Hein, &c. may bring joint or several actions.
SEC. 2. Gaarcliana for infant defendant. in actioaa relating to Janu. 
SEC. 3. Wbea court may put party leave to aurvey land,.
U. Content. of order; copy to be served on owner of land.I.
US. Authority of party uder order. 
SEC. 6. Write al riew abolished; billa of puti911ian how obtained.
SEC. 7. lmparlancea, &c. abolished; land.lord1, &c. may defend. 
SEC. 8. Action not to be defeated by alienation of defendant,; 
SEC. 9. ParchaNr during nit, bow fu liable for rent. and profit..
SEC. 0. Certain damagu may be useued at circuit colU'ts.
ti, Form of circuit roll; proceeding, thereon. · 
IL EueuiOD for eotlt.l, may be inoJDde4 in writ of poe1e11ion.
SEC. 3. Practice in penonal actiona to apply to real actions, &c. 
M. Actiom and process not retained herein, abollahed. 
SEC. 1. If any tenant for life, in dower, or by the curtesy; be Im-
pleaded, and the person to whom the reversion or remainder apper-
tains, shall come into court before any trial shall have been had in
such action, or before judgment by default therein, and pray to be re-
eeived to defend his right, he shall be received for that purpose, and
shall be permitted to plead to the action, upon such terms as the court 
shall deemjust, 
!!!!!!!!!! 
TITLE VII. 
47
• 
SEC. 2. If any tenant for life or years, make default di give up any
h 
, .
lands demanded, so t at Judgment be given on such default or sur- 
render, the heir or person to whom the reversion or remainder of 
such lands appertains, may, after the death of such tenant, have an
action of ejectment to recover the same lands. . • 
~ S. If a judgment be reversed, the tenant who lost by th-: first 
judgment, if he be in life, shall be restored to the possession of the
tenements so Jost, with the issues in the mean time, and the party 
pursuing, to the arrearages of rent, if any be due, for the same terie- 
ments ; and if such tenant be dead at the time of the judgment given 
upon any writ of error, restitution shall be made to the party pursuing,
with the issues after the death of the said tenant, together with the 
anearages of_ rent, if any were due, in the life time of the said tenanL@ 
., 
. ... 
SEC. 4. When a husband and wife shall be impleaded, if the husband
absent himself, and will not defend the wife's right, if the wife ap­ 
ply before judgment, she shall be admitted to defend without her h\11- 
band.49 
SEC. 5. If the husband lose by default, any land which was the right 
of his wife, the wife, after the death of her husband, may have an ac­
tion of ejectment to recover the same, and the judgment by default 
shall be no bar to such action. 
49 
SEC. 6. All recoveries had by agreement of the parties, or by fraud, 
against any tenant for life, in dower, or by the curtesy, of any lands,
tenements or hereditaments, shall be void against all persons to whom 
any reversion or remainder of such lands may appertain, and against 
their heirs, unless the appearance of tho person having such reversion
or remainder, shall have been duly entered in the court where such 
recovery shall be had. But this provision shall not extend to any 
person who shall recover any lands, tenements or hereditaments with­
out fraud, by reason of any former right or title. 
49 
SEC. 7. If the person to whom the reversion or remainder of any~
tate belongs, shall establish that any recovery against the tenant for 
life, in dower, or by the curtesy, was obtained by fraud, restitution of 
the same tenements shall be made to him, with the issues and arrear·
ages, as herein before provided ; but such tenant may have a writ of 
acire f acia8 upon the same judgment so reversed or given on any 
writ of error, if he desire, and may therein traverse the fraud, and 
not otherwise. 
60 
SEC. 8. No execution shall be avoided by means of any feigned re- 
covery, but all persons entitled to have execution of any lands, tene­ 
ments or hereditaments, shall have the like means to avoid and falsify 
the same recoveries, as a tenant of the freehold, who was neither
party nor privy to such recovery, has by the course of the common 
law.51 · 
9. A lessee for years may falsify for his term only, recoveries, in 
- 
the same manner as a tenant of the freehold who was neither party nor
privy to the recovery, may do by the course of common law. And 
such lessees, and their personal representatives and assigns, notwith­
standing any recoveries that may be so falsified, shall hold their terms
according to their demises, as if such recovery had not been had. 
SEC. 0. After any recovery had, the recoverers, their heirs and as­ 
signs, shall have the like remedies against any lessees for years, their
representatives and assigns, for any rents or services reserved, coming 
due after such recoveries, and also like actions for waste done after 
such recoveries, as the lessors might have had if such recoveries had 
not been made. 
61
· 
61 
SEC. 1. When any person shall die, leaving heirs either in the same
or in different degrees: and where several persons shall be, in any 
other way, entitled to real estate, as tenants in common, or as jomt
tenants, they may bring one action for the recovery thereof, or may
bring several actions for their respective shares or interests. 
SEC. 2. Actions relating to real property, shall not be delayed, nor 
shall the remedy of any plaintiff be suspended, by reason of the in-
fancy of any defendant therein ; but guardians to defend the rights of 
infant defendants, shall be appointed as in personal actions. And in
all such actions against an infant, if he do not procure the appointment 
of a guardian within the time required for his appearance therein, the
plaintiff may proceed to have such guardian appointed as in personal
actions. 
~ IS. Whenever the court, in which any action enumerated in this
Chapter, shall be pending, sha 11 be satisfied that a survey of any pre- 
mises in the possession of either party, or of any boundary line be-
tween the parties, or between the lands of either of them and the 
lands of other persons, is necessary or expedient, to enable either par- 
ty to declare, plead or prepare for trial, or for any other proceeding
in such action, it may, by rule of court, upon the application of either
party, order that such party have leave to make such survey. 
SEC. 4. Such order shall specify the premises or boundary lines to be 
ed
b
de
• • d fi . be nd f th 
mrvey , ya scnpuon as e mte as may ; a a copy o e 
aame shall be served previous to such entry, on the owner or cceu- 
pant of the premises upon which it may be necessary to enter, to 
make. such survey. 
62 
SEC. 5. The party obtaining such order, his necessary surveyors, ser-Aatho:t6'
vants and agents, may enter upon any premises necessary for the 
purpose of making such survey, and may there make the same, after
having served such rule as herein before directed ; and for so doing, 
no person acting under such order, shall .be liable to any action of 
trespass, or other action; but every such person shall be responsible 
in an action on the case, for any unnecessary injury caused by him. 
SEC. 6. No writ of view shall hereafter be allowed in any action for 
the
f l h
• th f. h th 
recovery o rea estate or t e possession ereo , except w ere o -
erwise specially provided for ; but any judge of the court in which 
the action is pending, and any other officer who may be authorised to
perform the duties of such judge at chambers, shall· have power when-
ever he shall think proper so to do, to order the plaintiff to deliver to 
the defendant, a particular description of the premises demanded, in
the same manner and subject to the same provisions, as in cases where 
bills of particulars may be required in personal actions.
SEC. 7. No imparlance, voucher, aid-prayer or receipt, shall be al- 
lowed ; but whenever any action shall be brought against any tenant, 
• 
to recover the land held by him, or Ule possession of such land, the
landlord of such tenant, and any person having any privity of estate 
or interest with such tenant or with such landlord, in the premises in
question, or in any part thereof, may be made defendant with such
tenant in case he shall appear; or may, at his election, appear with·
out such tenant. And in the latter case, the court may order a stay 
of execution upon any judgment against the tenant in possession, until
the further order of the court. 
68 
SEC. 8. Whenever any action for the recovery of any lands or tene- 
ments, or for the recovery of the possession thereof, shall be com-
menced against any person in possession of the premises in question,
or in the receipt of the profits thereof, such action shall not be barred 
or delayed by reason of any alienation or conveyance made by such 
person to any other, either before or after the commencement of such 
action.64 
SEC. 9. If t,be defendant in any action for the recovery of land, or
the possession of land, shall alien the land in question, pending the 
suit, and shall have no property whereof any damages for the issues
and profits of such land recovered against him, may be levied, every
person to whose hands such land may have come, shall be liable to an
action for such damages, for the time that he shall have possessed the
premises. 
66 
SEC. 0. Whenever by the provisions of law, any writ of inquiry may
be issued to assess the damages which any person shall be entitled to 
recover for the mesne profits arising from the possession of · real et­ 
tate, or to ascertain any damages which a plaintiff in dower shall be
entitled to recover, or to assess the damages in an action of waste,
instead of issuing such writ, the plaintiff may have such damages at­ 
sessed at a circuit court, to be held in the county where the venue in
the action is laid. 
SEC. 1. For that purpo~J the plaintiff may make up a circuit roll of
the pleadings and proceedings, with an entry of an order therein, that 
such damages be assessed at such circuit court ; and such court shall
proceed thereon, pursuant to such order, in the same manner as in 
other causes sent to that court to be tried ; and the verdict of the jury
thereupon, shall be certified and returned in like manner. 
SEC. 2. Whenever a writ of possession shall be issued upon a judg·
ment in any action relating to real property, the plaintiff" may include 
in the same process, an execution against the property or body of the
defendant, to collect the costs or damages which may be due, in the
same cases in which he would be authorised to issue such execution
separately. 
SEC. 3. The practice in actions relating to real estate, ·enumerated 
, • 
m thJB Chapter, shall be the same in all respects as in personal ac- 
liens, except where otherwise specially provided by law ; and rules 
to plead, reply and answer, may be entered, and may be enlarged,~ 
and proceedings may be stayed, in the like cases. And all the pro- 
visions of law respecting pleadings, process, records and JUdgtneeti,
in personal actions, shall, so far as may be, apply to actions relating 
to real estate. 
SEC. 4. All writs of right, writs of dower, writs of entry and writs
of assize, all fines and common recoveries, and all other real actions 
known to the common law, not enumerated and retained in this Chap-
ter ; and all writs and other process heretofore used in real actions,
which are not specially retained in this Chapter ; shall be, and they 
aN, hereby abolished. · 
PROCEEDINGS TO DISCOVER THE DEA TH OF PERSONS, UPON WHOSE
LIVES ANY PARTICULAR ESTATE MAY DEPEND. 
SEC. 1. Penou upon whose livea e1tate1 depend, how produce4.
I. C.tent. oCpetition for that pvpoae.
8. Petition how Terified and 1erTed with notice, &c. 
4. Order of court fo, production of person.
&. Omer how 1ened; how to be uecuted. 
6. Subpcmlaa for witne11e1 to attend. 
T. When ·and by whom habeu corpu to be aDowed. 
S. Betun by muter or commi11ioaen. 
9. Proeeedinga if order complied with; coat. how paid.
SEC. 0. IC penon not produced to be deemed dead. 
SEC. 4. ProceediDp where it ia alleged tblt the penon ~ i1 oat ol the ,tat.. 
SEC. 5. Matten that may be ahon by party applied againat. 
SEC. 6. Order ot court thereon.
SEC. 7. CopiN oC orden or aomt, to be eTidence or &eta. 
SEC. 8. Pronaian tor cow.
SEC. 9. Bestontion of e.tatea recoyered on preaumption or death. 
a>. Remedy ol penoa e'ricted for re11.t. and profit.. 
~ I • Any person entitled to claim any lands or tenements, after the 
..L.~ of th h . . . h I ds 
ualUl any o er person avmg any prior estate m sue an or te- 
nements, may, once a year, apply by petitioft~ to the court of chance-'° 
ry, for an order, that the person upon whose life such prior estate de-
pends, be produced and shown, as herein after provided, by the guar- 
~, husband, trustee, or party who may have the custody of such 
other ~n, or of his estate, or who may be entitled to such eusto-
~~ . 
f I. Every such petition ~all state, · - 
1. The interest of such applicant in the lands or tenements deseris- 
eel tliemin: and, 
!!!!!!!!! 
TITLE VIII. 
1_. That he baa cause to believe and does believe, that 'the person
upon whose life such prior estate depends, is dead, and that his death 
is con~ by the party against whom the application is made. 
8. Such petition shall be verified by affidavit, and a copy shall
be served upon the person against whom the application is intended 
be made, with at least fourteen days' notice of the time and place
which the same is intended to be presented. 
67 
SEC. 4. If no sufficient cause be shown to the contrary, the court of
chancery, upon due proof of the service of such petition and notice, 
shall make an order requiring the party against whom the application
made, to produce and show the person upon whose life such estate 
depends, at such time and place, and to such master of the court, or
commissioner or commissioners, not exceeding two, as shall be named
such order. 
SEC. 5. A certified copy of such order shall be served upon the party 
against whom the application is made, at least fourteen days before
the day specified therein, at which any person shall be required to be 
produced. The master or commissioners shall attend at the time and 
place specified in the order, for the purpose of attending to the exeeu­ 
tion thereof, and they shall have power to take proof, by the exami­
nation of witnesses to be sworn by them, as to the identity of the per­ 
son upon whose life such estate depends.
SEC. 6. Subpoenas to compel the attendance of 'titnesses before such 
master or commissioners, may be issued and served in the like man·
ner and with the like effect, as before examiners in chancery in any 
cause pending in that court.
SEC. 7. If it appear satisfactorily to the master or commissioners, on 
due proof by affidavit, that the person required to be produced is i~ 
prison, or is kept or detained by any other, they may allow a wnt 
of habeaa corpua to be issued out of the court of chancery, to bring 
the body of such person before them ; which writ shall be served and 
executed in the same manner as such writs to inquire into the cause
of the detention of any person, and all the provisions of law, in rela­ 
tion to obedience to such writ, shall apply to the writ so allowed by 
such master or commissioners.
8. If such person shall be produced before the master or com­ 
missioners, pursuant to the order of the court, they shall state the 
same in their return, and shall also state therein, whether they or
either of them, were personally acquainted with such person, or 
whether his identity was proved by witnesses examined by them, 
and shall set forth such proof in their return. If such person shall 
not be produced before them, they shall so state in their return. · 
SEC. 9. Upon the filing of any such return, if it shall appear that the 
order has been complied with, the proceedings shall be ~lS':"' 
and the court shall direct an entry of such return to be made in its
minutes ; and shall order the costs of the proceedings to be paid by 
the applicant. 
1,
__ L--1 
SEC. 0. If it shall appear, from such return, that the person upon 
whole life such estate depends, was not produced before the commis- 
siooen, as required by the order, and that due service of such order 
wu made, as herein required, such person shall thereafter be taken 
to be dead; and the party entitled after his death, may forthwith en-
ter upon the said lands or tenements, in the same manner as if such 
person were actually dead.
SEC. 1. If it shall be shown to the court, by affidavit on the part of 
the
• h h 1· . h II be d . 
person against W om any SUC app icanon S a ma e, ID any 
stage of the proceeding, that the person upon whose life such estate 
depends, is or lately was at some place certain, beyond sea or else-
wltere out of this state, the proceedings shall cease, unless the party
prosecuting such order, shall, at his own costs and charges, obtain 
commission, to be issued out of the court of chancery, and to be di- 
rected to one or more commissioners, to be appointed for that purpose 
by the court, residing at such place, to obtain a personal view of the 
person upon whose life such estate depends. 
~ 1!. If such party shall elect so to send to such place, he shall 
give notice, in writing, to the· party against whom the original ap­
plication shall have been made, of the time, and place certain at.
which the commissioners will attend, for the purpose of having such 
view, as follows : 
1. If the place be within any of the United States, or in either of 
the provinces of Canada, at least two months' notice shall be given
t. If the place be within either of the West-India islands, at least 
three months' notice: 
a. For all other placea, at least four months' notice. 
68 
~ lS. The commissioners shall possess the satne powers, and shall
proceed in like manner, as above provided, and the like proceedings 
shall be had, and with the like effect, upon the coming in of their re· 
turn. 
SEC. 4. If it shall appear from such return, that the person upon 
whose life such estate depends, was produced before them, the· appli- 
cation ahall be discharged, with the like effect as before provided ;
it shall appear that he was not so produced, he shall thereafter be ta-
ken to be dead, and the party entitled after his death, may forthwith 
enter upon the said lands and tenements, in the same manner as if
such person were actually dead. 
SEC. 5. The party against whom any such application shalt be made, 
may show' by affidavit or otherwise, to the court of chancery' 
1. That the pel'80n upon whose life such estate depends, is or was 
living, at the time of any return made by any commissioners appoint- 
ed under this Title: 
t. That such party has used his utmost endeavors to procure the 
pel'IOD upon whose life such estate depends, to appear before auch
commissioners, according to the exigency of the order by which they
were appointed : and, · 
a. That be could. not procure or compel such penen so to appear. 
SEC. 6. If such court be satisfied of the truth of such allegations, it
shall cause an entry of such proof to be made in its minutes, and 
Bhall thereupon declare that there ia no reuon to presume the death 
of the penon upon whose life such particular estate shall depend;
and all further proceedings on such application shall cease. 
, 1 "I. A copy of any entry made in the minutes of the court of
chancery, pursuant to the provisions of this Title, duly certified, shall
be. evidence, in all courts within this state, of the facts therein stated. 
SEC. 8. "When provision is not herein otherwise made for the pay· 
ment of the costs of the proceedings, the same shall be paid by such
party as the court shall direct . 
SEC. 9. Any estate which shall have been recovered upon the pre­
aumption of the death of any penon, shall be restored to him who 
1hall have been evicted, if in any subsequent action, the person pre­
sumed to be dead, shall be proved to have been living, at the time of' 
the commencement of such action. CIO 
SEC. 0. Every person so evicted, his executors or administrators, 
alf recover, in any action to be brought by him or them, the full 
profit.a of the estate, during the time he sbaR have been deprived
thereof, and during the life time of the person en whose rue such es­ 
tate depended, against such as occupied the same, his or their e:ucu­ 
tora or adminiatrato1&. 
11 
CHAP. VI. 
Of Proceedings in Personal Actions brought for
the Recovery of any Debt, or for Damages only. 
T1TLE l.-Of the commencement of suits and the proceedings therein. 
until the forming of an issue of fact. 
TITLE 2.-0f pleadings and set-offs. 
1·1TLE 3.-0f the assessment of damages upon default.
TJTu 4.-0f judgments. 
'f1TLE 5.-0f executions, and the duties of officers thereon. 
TJTLE 6.-Provisions concerning certain proceedings in the progrea of
an action at Jaw. 
69 
TITLE I. 
OF THE COMMENCEMENT OF SUITS A ND THE l•ROCEEDtNGS THl!RE· 
IN. UNTIL THE .FORMING OF AN ISSUE OF FACT.
&c. I. Actions for debt or 4amage,, how commeaced. 
2. PrQeeedingw when decJar.tion ae"ed peno..Uy. 
I. When eapias may be i11aed againat a fictitious nadle,
4. Mode of 1enill1 a capiu on whiola bail i, DOt reqaincl. 
6 • .Appearance of defendant auved, to be entered.
8. Tnee cause of action to be 1tated, in order to bold to bail. 
1. C- unmen.ted, when bail may be required, of coane.
8. la other cue,, order for bail may be granted. 
9. Bein, exeenton, &e. not to h held to ball, except, &e.
SEC. 0. Sherift'how to execute writ requiring bail. 
JI. Defendant to be di1eharpd on executin« a bond; ill contentl. 
SEC. 2. WJaea bond se be u,ignecl. proceedings tlaereon.
SEC. 6. 
U. Rule on ,herift' for ,pecial bail, when entered.
SEC. 5. Attachment Cor not putting in, how ilned. 
SEC. 8. SheriJf'may pat in bail, hi• remedy therefor. 
SEC. 7. Proceeding. again,t 1heriff'broaght ap on attachment,
SEC. 8. Comt to ueertain amout due to plaintiff'. 
SEC. 9. Proceedinga to be atayed, on aherift"•, come11ing jlldgrMnt.
SEC. 0. Or aberitl' may confe11 judgment, &c. 
SEC. 1. E.xecutioa when to u,ue; remedy on bond of 1herifF.
22.· Commitment of defendant on writ to be specially returned.
SEC. 8. Ia 1uch cue declaration when and how to IN, aened, &c.
SEC. 4. Wilen to declare where def'endut bu appeared, &c.
SEC. 6. Coueqaeoee of neglect.
SEC. 8. W arnntl of attorney and entrie, thereof abolisbecl. 
SEC. 1. Actions brought for the recovery of any debt, or b 
damages only, may be. commenced, either, . 
1. By the issuing and eervice of a oapia, ad re,pond,ndl&fl&
agaiDlt persona not privileged from arrest: 
t. By summons against corporations: or,
a. By filing in the office of one of the clerks of the supreme court, 
with the clerk of the court of common pleas of the county in whjch
the defendant resides, a declaration ; entering a rule in the minutes 
kept by such clerk, requiring the defendant to plead to such declara­
tion according to the practice of the court; and serving a copy o~ such 
declaration and notice of such rule personally on the defendant ; which 
mode of commencing an action may be adopted against_ any peraon, 
whether privileged from arrest or not, · · · · · 
JI. Upon due proof of the service of a declaration ~rsonally on 
all~ ~ants in the cause, their appea~nce shall be entered by:=: 
the clerk of the court, in the same manner as if they had endoned 
their appearance on a capitu; and their default may be entered for 
not pleading, and the same proceedings may be had against them, in 
111peet1, u if they had appeared. 
SEC. 3. When tJ}e name of any defendant shell not be known to thew-._ 
plainWF, a capitu ad rupOIUlendum may be issued againat such per·~~ 
IOD 1,y a fictitious name. · 
SEC. 4. Upon the service of a capiaa ad reapontkndum upon any 
l*IOn, 1'hich does not require. the _ defendant to ~ ~•!de to bail, he 
may endorse his appearance on such writ, or if he refuse to do eo, the
sheriff may return the writ personally served.1 
SEC. 5. Upon SUCb writ being returned with the appearance of a de- 
• b l ed th I k of the
fendant endorsed, or as havmg een persona ly serv , e c er 
court shall enter the appearance of the defendant upon whom the same
was served; and thereafter, proceedings may be had against such de­
fendant, as if he had actually appeared. 
6. No person shall be held to bail on a capias ad re,pondM- 
• be ,
dum, unless the true cause of action particularly expressed there- 
in.! 
SEC. 7. In the following cases, the defendant may be held to bail, of 
d . h . I rd "'- th
course, an wit out any spec1a o er ior at purpose: 
1. In all actions of debt, except such as shall be brought upon a
judgment rendered in a suit wherein the defendant was held to bail; 
and except such as shall be brought upon any bail hood or recogni­ 
zance of bail, or upon any replevin or other bond in which any surety
shall have joined, taken in the course of judicial proceedings, or by
virtue of any statute: 
2. · In all actions upon contracts for the payment o.f any money, 
the performance of any service, or the delivery of any property, where 
the demand or damages shall be certain, or can be reduced to eer-
tainty: · 
a .• In actions of trover, and in actions of trespass for taking per­ 
sonal property, and in actions of replevin, in the cases provided by
law: 
,. In actions for trespass upon land.2 
SEC. 8. In all cases other than such as are herein provided for holding
a defendant to bail, an order requiring such bail may be granted by a 
judge of the court in which the writ is issued in the cases and accord­
ing to the practice established in the supreme court. 
SEC. 9. Persons prosecuted in their representative character as heirs,
executors, administrators, assignees or trustees, under the provisions 
th be h d
of any statute, or o erwise, cannot el to bail, unless they shall 
have incurred a personal obligation to pay the debt or demand claimed. 
SEC. 0. The sheriff or other officer to whom any writ shall be deliver­
ed, requiring the defendant to be held to bail, as herein provjded, shall 
execute the. same by arresting the body of the defendant, and keeping
him in his custody until dischargd according to law •1 
SEC. 1. Every defendant so arrested shall be entitled to be dilcharg- 
ed therefrom, upon executing to the officer making such a1'1"81t, with 
the addition of his name of office, a bond, in a penalty equal to the sum
endorsed on the writ, with two sufficient sureties, conditioned that
such .defendant will appear in the action commenced by such writ, by 
putting in special bail within twenty days after the return day speci-
fied in such writ, and by perfecting such bail, if required, according 
to the rules and practice of the court. 
4 
SEC. 2. If default be made in the condition of such bond, the sheriW
taking the same, shall assign such bond to the plaintiff in the action,
at his request, who may prosecute the same in his own name; and
such proceedings shall be had in such action, for the recovery of the
plaintiff's demand, and for the relief of the bail thereon, as in this act 
herein after prescribed. 
6 
SEC. 8. In cases where special bail shall be required, if the same be
• • hi d bl th • h • "bed r-. th• th 
not given wit m ou e e time erem prescn tor at purpose, e
plaintiW may enter the defendant's appearance, and proceed to judg- 
ment, in like manner as if special bail bad been given. 
8 
SEC. 4. If special bail shall not be put in and perfected within twenty
days after the return day of the writ on which the arrest was made, 
upon filing an affidavit that such bail is not put in and perfected, and 
that such writ has been returned served, a rule may be entered with 
the clerk of the court, in vacation or in term, requiring the sheriff" or
other officer making such arrest, to put in special bail, within twenty
days after service of notice of such rule. 
SEC. 5. If such bail be not put in and perfected within the time spe- 
cified in such rule, upon filing an affidavit of the service of notice
thereof, a rule may be entered in vacation or in term, that an at­ 
tachment issue against the sheriff or other officer who may have made 
the arrest, and such attachment may be issued accordtngly, 
SEC. 6. The sheriff or other officer who shall have made an arrest, 
may, for his own indemnity, put in special bail to the action, as now
practised in the courts of common law, when such bail shall have 
been required as herein directed, and the putting the same in, shall 
have been neglected by the defendant., so as to subject such sheriff to
an attachment; and the putting in such bail, by such officer, shall not 
be deemed a performance of the condition of the bond taken on the 
arrest; but such officer may, notwithstanding, prosecute such bond, 
and recover the amount of all damages he may have sustained by the
neglect of the defendant to put in such bail. 
SEC. 7. Upon a sheriff being brought into court on such attachment, 
the same proceedings shall be had as are now practised upon a sheriff's 
disobedience of a rule to bring in the body of the defendant, and such 
sheriff" shall be liable in the same manner and to the same extent, and 
the court shall have the like power in all respects,
SEC. 8. When a sheriff shall be brought into court upon an attach- 
I:. • • b •1 th • h b
ment 1or not putting m a1 to e action, t e court may, y summary 
proceedings, ascertain the amount due to the plaintiff in the action, in 
&lie l8ID8 mmmer:aaifinterloeutory judgment had beeo$ltered ~ 
tme llllefeadant. 
SEC. 9. If the court shall determine that.the amount so ascertained 
mght . to be paid by the sheriff; and if the sheriff shall confe11 a judg·
mat.to•·plaintiff for the a1DOW1t so ucertained, with the coeta of 
the.s11it and el Jhe ,proceedings, the court shall thereupon stay all other
proceedi.nga againa him, until he shall have had a reasonable time to
oltmin judgment on the bond taken on the arrest of Ule defendant, 
and to collect the amoan! so ascertained to be due to the plaintiff. 
~ .IO. -'I!he ·sheriff', upon being served with such attachment, may, 
at' his. opiion, ,ooofesa a judgment to the plaintiff for the amount doe
bim,with,jhe costs of the suit and of the proceedinga, and shall there­
upon be discharged from.arrest on such attachment; and proceedings 
on such judgment shall be stayed, as in the last section prescribed,
and no execution shall be issued thereon, without the leave of the 
court. 
SEC. 1. Jf in any such.action, after a reasonable time allowed, the
1heriff shall not satisfy the plaintiff in the action, the amount due him, 
with costs and interest, the court shall award execution on the judg·
ment confessed by such sheriff, as herein provided ; and if such eu­ 
cution be returned unsatisfied, in part or in whole, the same proceed­
ings shall be had on the official bond of such sheriff, to collect suob 
deficiency as are provided in other cases of delinquency.
SEC. 2. If a, defendant arrested on proce&1 in which he- is required to 
be held to bail, shall be committed to prison for the want of such bail, 
the sheriff shall specially return upon such process, the fact that the
defendant is so imprisoned for want of bail. 
SEC. 8. Upon such return being made, the plaintiff mall declare
against such defendant, before the end of the term next after such pro- 
cees was returnable, and shall deliver a copy of the said declaration
to such prisoner, or to the sheriff or keeper of the jail, in whose cus­
tody such prisoner shall be. If such declaration be not served as 
herein prescribed, the defendant shall be discharged from his impri· 
sonment, and shall be entitled to judgment of discontinuance against 
the plaintiff. 
7 
SEC. 4. When a defendant shall have appeared in any suit, by caus­ 
ing his appearance to be entered, or by putting in and perfecting spe­ 
cial bail, where such bail is required ; the plaintiff shall declare
against such defendant, by the end of the next term after the return
of the writ by which such suit was commenced. 
8 
SEC. 5. If a plaintiff fail to declare, as in the last section preacribed,
judgment of discontinuance may be entered against him, aocording to
the.. course and practice of the court. 
8 
SEC. 6. It shall not be necessary to file any. warnDt of attoraey, to
authorise any attorney to appear in any court, for either party to 
an action brought therein, except in cues where it shall be special-
ly required by law; nor shall any entry of a warrant·of attorney ·in 
any judgment roll or record, or other proceeding, be DeC8l8llr1 ; bnt
the plaintiff" in his declaration, and the defendant in his plr,a, shall 
state the name of the attorney or attornies by whom they respectively 
appear. / 'Z.. n,.-~4 i--'f 
TITLE JI. 
OF PU!ADINGS AND SET-OFFS • 
.... l Ii: ~ Form of deelariog in debt and in u,umpeit, for aaGDey neeiftd cs&lltftl:1 to,a
,tatute. 
t. Alto in tronr for good, 10 receind . 
.&. On gnenl cleDnUTer, fonnal defects to be disregarded.
6. In 111eh cue, eollf't to amend 1uch defeek,
6. 3 odgment on 1pecial demurrer in certain cue,. 
T. Dilatory pleas to be prond when oft'ered. 
8. FA.oigu 111d wager of law, aboli1bed,
9 Defendant. may plead 1everal pleas. 
SEC. 0. Whela notice may be giTen, iDltead of pleading. 
SEC. 1. _ Payment may be pleaded in actiOJUI on bilJ., judgment,, &e. 
SEC. 2. Alao in actimaa on bond, with conditiona to pay moaey,
IL 8ma du may be paid after 1uit brought on ,uch bonda.
SEC. 4. Venae in actiona apin1t public oflice'*, &c.
SEC. 8. ffpedal matten may be proved in 1uch suits, with.out notice.
SEC. 8. In certain ni&a, 1tatute1 need not be recited.
SEC. 7. RepliemGD in rnach 1uit1; endence on trial.
SEC. 8. Cues in which certain demancll may be Mt o/f.
SEC. 9. 8et-1>ff' m1llt be pleaded or notice given. 
IO. With what p1 .. notiee of .et-off' to be ginn, 
SEC. 1. Judgment if ~t-ol' N equal to or le11 than plaintiff''• debt. 
SEC. 2. Wbea there i, a balance dae the defendant.
SEC. 1. Set-c6 in nib by uecuton and administrator,. 
S&. Jadgmeat for Wance 119-imt them; execution thereon.
SEC. 5. Executors, trustee., &c. may ,et oft" in ,alb apinlt t'hem. 
ts. Beplioation and notice to plea or illlOlnat di,e-......, ate.
SEC. 7. When lfferal matten may be replied or rejoined.
SEC. 8. Allcie11t wm. ol pleading Dot to prejudice parties. 
SEC. 1. In actions of debt brought to recover any money, gooda or 
ether thing, received by any person contrary to the provisions of any 
*lute, it sball be sufficient for the plaintiff, without setting forth the
!E_>eeial matter, to allege in his declaration tliat the defendant is, or 
that hill testator or intestate was, indebted to the plaintiff in the sum 
ID received, or in the value of the goods or other thing so received, 
whereby an action accrued to the plaintiff, according to the proviaiolll 
of 1uch statute, naming . the subject matter thereof, in the following 
bm : " according to the provisions of the statute regulating the rate 
al interelt on money," br, " according to the provisions of the statute 
against betting and gaming," as the case may require, or in IIOm& 
otber general terms reMrring to such statute. 
9 
~ ! .. If an action of assumpsit be brought for any money received
contrary- to the provisions of any statute, it shall be sufficient for the 
plaintiff,· ~t 9!?!~~ng f~t~ !~~i.~ matter, to allege in his de- 
claration, that the same was received contrary to the · provisions of
such statute, referring to the same, as prescribed in the last section. 
8. If an action of trover be brought for any goods or other thing 
received contrary to the provisions of any statute, the plaintiff shall
set forth in his declaration, that such goods or other things were con­ 
verted by the defendant, contrary to the provisions of such statute, re­ 
ferring to the same, as prescribed in the preceding sections. 
SEC. 4. When any demurrer shall be entered in any action, and issue 
be joined thereon, the court shall proceed and give judgment, according
as the very right of the cause and matter in law shall appear, without 
regarding any defect or other imperfection in any PfOCCSS or pleading,
so as sufficient matter appear in the pleadings, to enable the court to 
give judgment according to the very right of the cause, unless such
defect or other imperfectionbe specially expressed in the demurrer.P 
SEC. 5. After issue shall be joined on any demurrer, the court shall
amend every such defect or other imperfection in any process or plead­ 
ing, in the last section mentioned, other than those which the party
demurring shall specially express in his demurrer.P 
SEC. 6. When a defendant shall demur to any pleading of the plain­
tuf, on account of some defect or other imperfection, which the court
is by the two last sections authorised to disregard and amend, in case 
the same had not been specially expressed ; if judgment be rendered
on such demurrer for the plaintiff, it shall be absolute, as if the de­
fendant had confessed the pleading so demurred to, and the defendant
shall not be allowed to withdraw his demurrer, or to plead any other
matter of law or of 1act. 
SEC. 7. No plea in abatement, or other dilatory plea, which does not
involve the merits of the action, shall be received by any court, unless 
the party offering such plea shall prove the truth thereof by affidavit,
or by some other evidence.'! · · 
8~ No euoign shall be allowed in any suit; nor shall any per .. 
be . ted his J • 12 
son permit to wage aw, m any case. 
SEC. 9. The defendant in any action may plead as many several mat-
ters, as he shall think necessary for his defence ; subject to the power 
of the court to compel him to elect by which plea he will abide, in
cues where he may plead inconsistent pleas. 
11 
SEC. 0. Whenever a defendant shall plead the general issue, in any 
action in which such issue may be pleaded, or whenever he shall
pleed nil debet to an action of debt on judgment, or whenever in an 
action of covenant, he shall by his plea deny the execution of the in- 
strument on which the plaintiff may have declared, he may give.no- 
tice with such ple!i_ of any matters which, if pleaded, would be a bar 
to suchaction, and may give such matter in evidence on the trial, in
the same manner as if the same had been pleaded. 
14 
SEC. 1. When any action shall be brought upon any single bill, or
upon a judgment, and where a scire facias is brought upon a judg- 
ment, the defendant may plead payment of the amourit due on such
bill or judgment, in bar of such action or writ.11 
SEC. 2. ~cf any action which shall be brought on a bond, which has
a conditionty which the same is to become void on the payment of 
a leas sum, the defendant may plead payment of the principal sum 
and interest due by the condition of such bond, before the commence-
ment of such action, in bar thereof, although such payment was not 
made strictly accosding to such condition. 
16 
~ IS. Whenever an action shall be pending upon any such bond
as ii mentioned in the preceding section, the defendant may, at any~~ 
time before judgment rendered in such action, pay to the plaintiff, or
bring into court for the plaintiff's use, the principal sum and interest
dne on such bond, together with the costs incurred in such action, and 
thereupon such action shall be discontinued. 
11 
SEC. 4. Every action against any public officer appointed under the
authority of the state, or elected by the people, and against any per- 
son specially appointed, according to law, to execute the duties of/ 
any such public officer, for or concerning any act done by such offi- 
cer or person by virtue of his office, and every action against any
other person, who by the commandment of such officers or persons,
or in their aid or assistance, does any thing touching the duties of 
such office or appointment, shall be laid in the county where the 
fact complained of happened, and not elsewhere. t'7 
~ 15 -. In every such action the defendant may plead the general
iBsue, and give the special matter in evidence, without notice.1'7 
SEC. 6. In every action hereafter brought against any person, for any=~
act done by authority of any statute of this state, the defendant may
plead not guilty, or may make avowry, cognizance or justification 
the act done, alleging therein that· the same was done by authority
such statute, specifying the Chapter and Title containing the same,
or referring thereto in some other manner with convenient certainty, 
without expressing any matter contained in such statute.18 
SEC. 7. To every such plea, the plaintiff may reply that the defend-
ant did the act complained of, in his own wrong, without the authori- 
ty of any statute of this state. Upon the trial of any issue so joined, 
the whole matter may be given in evidence by both parties.18 
SEC. 8. In the following cues, and under the following cii,:;am. 
stances, a defendant may set off' demands which he has against the 
plaintiff": 
1. It must be a demand arising upon judgment or upon contnct,
express or implied, whether such contract be written or unwritten, 
sealed or without seal ; and if it be founded upon a bond, or other 
contract having a penalty, the sum equitably due, by virtue of itl 
condition, only, shall be set off: 
2. It must be due to him in his own right, either as bemg the 
• • al di be' th ' d f the 
origin ere tor or payee, or as mg e assignee an owner o
demand: · 
a. It must be a demand for real estate sold, or for personal proper- 
, • 
ty sold or for money paid, or services done ; or if rt be not such a de-
mand, the amount must be liquidated, or be capable of being ascer­ 
tained by calculation :
It must have existed at the time of the commencement of the 
suit, and must then have belonged to the defendant : 
is. It can be allowed only in actions founded upon demands which
could themselves be the subject of set-off, according to law: 
6. If there be several defendants, the demand set off must be due 
to all of them jointly: 
"I. It must be a demand existing against the plaintiff" in the action, 
I th · be b h ' th f 1 . 'ff ho h I 
un ess e suit roug t m e name o a p amti w as no rea __
interest in the contract upon which the suit is fourl'aed'; 16 whlcl 
case, no set-off of a demand against the plaintiff shall be allowed, un­ 
less as herein after specified :
s. If the action be founded upon a contract, other than a negotia- 
ble promissory note, or bill of exchange, which has been assigned by 
the plaintiff, a demand existing against such plaintiff, or any assignee
of such contract, at the time of the assignment thereof, and belonging 
to the defendant in good faith before notice of such 888igntnent, may 
be set off to the amount of the plaintiff's debt, if the demand be such
as might have been set off against such plaintiff" or such aasignee,
while the contract belonged to him : 
9. IC the action be upon a negotiable promissory note, or bill of
exchange, which has been assigned to the plaintiff, after it became
due, a set-off to the amount of the plaintiff's debt, may be made of a
demand existing against any person or persons who shall have as­
signed or transferred such note, or bill, after it became due, if the de­
mand be such as might have been set off against the assignor, while
the note or bill belonged to him : 
1 o. If the plaintiff be a trustee for any other, or if the suit be in 
, • , 
the name of a plaintiff who has no real interest m the contract upon 
which the suit is founded, so much of a demand existing against those 
whom the plaintiff represents, or for whose benefit the action is 
brought, may be set off, as will satisfy the plaintiff's debt, if the same 
~ have been set oJI in an action bro~ht by those be~ly i.n
terested : 
SEC. 1. But if such action be brought by the assignee of an insolvent,
iq>risoned, absent, concealed or absconding debtor, no set-off shall 
allowed of any debt, unless in the cases provided in the fifth Chapter 
el the Second Part of the Revised Statutes.19 
SEC. 9. To entitle a defendult to a set~ he must plead or give
notice of the same.19 
I IO. Such notice must be given, together with the plea of the 
geaetal issue, in thole actions in which such issue may be pleaded,
er with the plea of nil debet to an action of debt on judgment, or 
die action of covenant, with a plea denying the execution of the in­ 
ltrumeot on which the plaintiff may hue declared.19 
J !l. Hthe amount of the set-off duly established, be equal to the
plaintiff's debt or demand, judgment shall be entered that the plain-
tiff" take Qothing by his action ; if it be less than the plaintiff's debt 
or demand, the plaintiff shall have judgment for the residue only.19 
~ !!. If there be found a balance due from the plaintiff in the ac: 
tion, to the defendant, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant 
for the amount thereof; but no such judgment shall be rendered
against tLe plaintiJr, when the contract which is the subject of the 
~ shall have been assigned before the commencement of such suit,
nor from any balance due from any other person than the plaintiff 
the action.19 
, 2S. In suits brought by executors and administrators, demands ex- 
isting against their testators or intestates, and belonging to the defend-
ant at the time of their death, may be set off by the defendant in the 
same manner as if the action had been brought by and in the name 
the deceased. 
SEC. 4. Whenever a set-0ff is established in a suit brought by execu-
ton or administrators, the judgment shall be against them in their 
repm1111tat.ive cbaracter, and shall be evidence of a debt established, 
to be paid in 1he course of administration ; but execution shall not is- 
• thereon, 11ntil directed by the surrogate who granted letters testa- 
tDeotary or of ~Distration. 
SEC. 5. In actions against executors and administrators, and again.st 
trustees and others sued in their representative character, the defend- 
ants may set off demands belonging to their testators or intestates, or 
thoee whom they represent, in the same manner as the persons so re­
presented, would have been entitled to set off the same, in "1 action 
against them . .,19 
SEC. 6. In every action in which the defendant shall plead any dis- 
bar 
/!....__ h" d b fi • • ti r. 
c ge 11UU1 11 e ts or rom imprisonment, or any exemp ion nom 
~-=-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
arrest or imprisonment, obtained by virtue of any statute of this state, 
the plaintiff may reply generally, that such discharge or exemption
was obtained by fraud, and pray that the same may be inquired ofby
the country ; and may' annex thereto a notice, specifying the several 
acts of fraud of which evidence will be given on the trial, to invali­
date such discharge or exemption ; which shall entitle such plaintiff 
to give evidence of the matters so specified, on the trial, in the same
manner as if they had been specially replied. 
OF THE ASSESSMENT OF DAMAGES UPON DEFAULT. r -­ 
SEC. 2. Upon interlocutory judgment on certain contracta, damage, to be uaeoed '1 
clerk.
8. When notice oru1e11ing neceaaary. 
4. Evidence, or e:ir.ecutioa or contract; general COllDU, 
5. Cluk to admiD.wter oatha; !oat coatracta; report. 
6. Sum u1e11ed to be reported and atated on contract.
7. Exception to report; judgment thereon.
8. Judgment how to be entered on record,
9. Clerlu or coantiea may uaea1 in certain cuea. 
SEC. 0. A11eaaiag damage• after judgment OD bail bond. 
SEC. 1. Proceediagw for that purpoae. 
SEC. 2. Writa of inquiry in other ac~ona on bail bomb.
IS. Declaration in original action to be filed. 
l~ Amount to be collected by execution on 1-il bond 1uit,. 
SEC. 1. In every suit brought in a court of record, wherein any writ- 
ten obligation or contract specified in the next section, shall be set 
forth in the declaration as the cause of action, if interlocutory judg­
ment be rendered for the plaintiff" by default, or upoµ demurrer, or 
upon confession, the court ahall direct the clerk thereof to examine,
ascertain and report, what sum the plaintiff ought to recover for his 
damages • .22 
!!!!!!!! 
TITLE III. 
20 
SEC. 7. Whenever it shall become necessary for the attainment of
justice, to allow a plaintiff to reply several matters to the plea of a 
defendant, or to allow a defendant to rejoin several matters to the re- 
plication of a plaintiff, the court in which the action shall be pending, 
on the special application of the party desiring so to reply or rejoin,
may allow the same to be done. 
SEC. 8. No person shall be prejudiced by the ancient terms and
forms of pleading, so that the matter fully appear in the process or 
declaration or other pleading. 
21 
~ !. The obligations or contracts upon which such assessment may
be made, must be in writing, and must be, either, 
1. A bill of exchange, promissory note, order or draft, for the
payment of money: or, 
2. Some contract for the absolute payment of money only : or, 
a. Some contract for the payment of a sum certain, though paya- 
ble in specific-articles : or, 
,. Some contract for the delivery of specific articles, at a value or
prioo stipulated in the same contract. 
23 
~ S. If the defendant shall have appeared in the cause by attorney,
or shall have given notice of his intention to appear and defend the 
action, the like notice of assessment of damages by the clerk, shall be
given as herein required of the trial of a cause; but in all other ca- 
•, no notice shall be necessary, and the clerk shall proceed therein, 
on the entry of the rule requiring such assessment. 
SEC. 4. In assessing such damages, the production to the clerk of the
bill of exchange, promissory note or contract, specially set forth in 
the declaration, shall be sufficient evidence of the execution of the 
same, without any other proof; and such assessment shall be made, 
notwithstanding there may be general or other counts in the declara- 
tion, besides those in which the note, bill or contract shall be special-
ly &et forth. :u 
SEC. 5. Any clerk authorised to assess damages by the provisions of 
this T
. tl dmini tbs • d ... _ ,. th . . 
1 e, may a ister oa to witnesses, an U&A.e err testimo-
ny, whenever it may be necessary: if the instrument declared on, be
lost, the clerk may take proof thereof, and of the contents of such in­
strument, which proof shall be stated in his report. And whenever 
required by either party, he shall reduce to writing the testimony ta-
ken by him, and include the same in his report. 
16 
SEC. 6. The clerk shall report to the court the sum ascertained by 
him to be due to the plaintiff, and shall certify, under his hand, upon
such original bill, note or contract, the amount of damages assessed 
thereon • .'6 
SEC. 1. Either party may except to such report, and on such excep-
tion being made, the court shall hear and examine the matter, andJadsment. 
cause justice to be done between the parties ; and shall give judg-
ment for the sum reported, or for such sum as the court, upon hear- 
ing the exception, if any, shall have ascertained to be due to the plain- 
tiff. 27 
SEC. 8. The judgment so rendered shall be entered on the record, 
without stating any reference to the clerk, or any proceedings in con-
sequence thereof, and the damages shall be stated as having been as- 
leSBed by the court. 21 
SEC. 9. If the cause be pending in the supreme court, the clerk of=
the county in which the venue in such cause shall be laid, shall have 
the same authority to assess the damages, as any clerk of the supreme
court, and shall in all respects proceed therein in the like manner. 21 
SEC. 0. Ha boDd taken on tht arrest of a defeadant, in tbo,e actions
in which an assessment of damages might be made by .&he clerk, ahall 
OF JUDGMENTS •.
Aa'f. 1.-GeneNll pnmaiont concerning judgments. : . 
A&T. !.--01' docketing judgmenll, their priority, and &be mode of cancelling a11d clil­ 
ch&fgiag tlaem. 
d b h la' .. :a- • h • and • .l1YW1an 
have been prosecute 'Y t e p \DWI ID sue acuea, JU,...;..,,_.t 
rendered thereon, the court shall in like manner direct the clerk to
examine, ascertain and report, what sum the plaintiff" ought to re· 
cover for the damages upon his original cause of action.• 
SEC. 1. The same prooeedi.ogs in all respects shall be had in ascer·
taining such damages as are herein provided, in case interlocutory 
judgment had been rendered in such original action.28 
SEC. 2. When a bond taken on the arrest of a defendant, in other 
ca118e8 than those provided for in the two last sections, shall have
been assigned to the plaintiff, and judgment shall be rendered the"'°n 
in his favor, a writ of inquiry of damages shall issue in the original
action, in the same manner as if the defendant had appeared therein, 
and interlocutory judgment had been obtained against him. 
SEC. 8. In all cues in which a judgment shall be rendered for the
plaintiJF, on a bond taken upon the arrest of a defendant, no damage• 
shall be asaeSled until a declaration in the original action shall have
been filed. 
SEC. 4. The damages so U1e1Sed, either by the clerk, or upon a writ 
of inquiry, with the interest, the colts in the original suit, and in die
auit on such bond, shall be endorsed upon the execution issued upon 
auch judgment, as the amount to be collected, with sheriff's fees, and 
no more shall be collected on such execution. 
TITLE JV. 
A.:BTICLE Plll8T. 
GeMrsl P1'°""1ioM concemtng hdgfflfflta. 
Sa:c. 1 • .PJainilll' not to be non-11lited after verdict. 
2. Setting uide judgmenta for irregularity.
8. Real eatate boODd by docket of judgments. 
4. Lim to 08llle after ten yqn, •• agaiJUt parobuen, &c. 
6. Certain time to be deducted, if notice be filed with clerk.
6. Daty of clerk with whom notice ii filed. 
7. Judgments docketed agaimt a dead penon; their eft'ect. 
8. Cuea where court may allow them to be docketed. 
9. Time of aigning record, to be stated in ita margin. 
SEC. 0. Wgmenta by eOllfeuicm, laow entuecl. 
!!!!!!!! 
I I. When a -verdict shall have been rendered in any actien, the 
plaiDtuf shall not thereaAer be non-suited but J· .. ~--ent ahall be ren- 
dered upon the matter found by such verdict.519 
28 
' ~ 
28 
J !. No judgment in any court of record, shall be set aside t>r ir-
regalarity on motion, unless such motion be made within one year~ 
lier the time such judgment was rendered. ao
SEC. 3. All judgments hereafter rendered in any court of record, shaH 
bind, and be a charge upon tbe lands, tenements, real estate and chat-~
tels real of every person against whom any such judgment shall be
rendered, which such person may have at the time of docketing sncl 
judgment, or which such person shall acquire at any time thereafter:
3IMI such real estate and chattels real, shall be aubjeot to be ea1tl upon 
aeoution to be issued on such judgment.11 
SEC. 4. From and after ten years from the time of docketing every 
such judgment, it shall cease to bind, or be a charge upon, any such 
property, as against purchasers in good faith, and as against incumhran- 
~ 1Ub6equent to such judgment, by mortgage, judgment, decree, or 
()tlJerwise.11 
SEC. 5. The time during which the party recovering such judgment, 
shall be restrained from proceeding thereon, by any injunction of any 
court, or by the operation of any writ of error, shall not constitute any
part of the ten years in the last section specified; but to entitle any 
party to such deduction, he shall, within ten years from the docketing 
of.the judgment, file with a clerk of the court in which such judgment 
was obtained, a notice, specifying the injunction o_r writ of error by 
which proceedings on such judgment shall have been restrained, and 
the time of service thereof; and if such restraint shall have ceased,
such party shall specify the duration thereof: 
11 
SEC. 6. The clerk with whom such notice shall be filed, shall enter 
in the margin of the docket of such judgment, a minute, stating that 
an injunction, or writ of error, as the cue may be, has been issued,
relating to such judgment ; and if such notice be filed with the clerk 
of the supreme court, he shall transmit a copy of such notice, with his 
docket of judgments, to the other clerks of that court, at the same
time and in the same manner. 
SEC. 7. In all cases in which a record of judgment shall be filed and 
docketed, within one year after the death of the party against whom=~ 
auch judgment was obtained, a suggestion of such death, if it happen- 
eel before judgment rendered, shall be entered on the record, and if af- 
ter .judgment rendered, the fact shall be certified on the back of such
record by the attorney filing the same. Such judgment shall not bind 
the real estate which such party shall have had at the time of hil 
death, but ahal1 be coasidered as a debt to be paid in the usual course 
of admioiatration. 
SEC. 8. If a verdict has been rendered before the death of such puty,
upon which proceedings shall be stayed by a bill of exceptions, or by 
any order of the court, or any officer thereof, the court may authorise 
the filing and docketing a record of judgment within one year after
the death of such party, su~t to the power of the court to vacate
the same. 
SEC. 9. The day and year of signing any record of judgment, shall
be stated in the margin thereof, by the judge or other officer signing 
the same.12 · 
SEC. 0. Judgments may be entered in the supreme court, or in any 
court of common pleas, in vacation or in term, upon a plea of confes- 
sion, signed by an attorney of such court, although there be no suit
then pending between the parties, if the following provisions be com­ 
plied with, and not otherwise: 
1. The authority for confessing such judgment, shall be in some
proper instrument, distinct from that containing the bond, contract, or
other evidence of the demand for which such judgment is conf'essed: 
t; Such authority shall be produced to the officer signing such
judgment, and shall be filed with the clerk of the court in which the
judgment shall be entered, at the time of the filing and docketing such 
judgment.11 
.ARTICLE SECOND. 
Of docketing Judgmenu, their Priority, and the Mode of ca•
celling and dischargin.s them. 
SEC. 1. Time or filing record to be marked thereon, &c.
SEC. 2. Judgment. not to aft'eet real utate, &c. until docketed.
IS. C1erk, to eater docbt of judgment. filed; form thereof. 
14, Special entry to be made in docket of judgment. for adnnce or certaiD taxu, 
US. Clerk, or 1upreme c~ to truwn.it docketa to each other.
SEC. 6. Duplicate tnucript whea to be 1ent. 
SEC. 7. Po.tap of tnnacripta how paid.
SEC. 8. Tranacript, to be entered by clerb receiring them.
SEC. 9. Boob containing docket., to be open to i.upeotion. 
SEC. 0. Penalty on clerk neglecting to docket or 1end tnn1cripta.
SEC. 1. Recogn.iancea not to bind real eatate. 
SEC. 2. Docket. Jaow canoelled 011 acknowledgment b::, party, &c.
SEC. 8. Acknowledgment, before whom to be made, and how certified.
SEC. 4. Effect or acknowledgment. by attorney on record.
SEC. 5. To be made by party or attorney receiving Ati1faction. 
SEC. 8. Return or execution atWied, to dilclaarge judgment, &c. 
"n. Dilcharge or judgment. to be certified to each other by npreme court clerb· 
SEC. 1. 'fhe clerk of every court of record, shall mark upon the
back of every record of judgment filed in his office, the time of filing
the same. No judgment shall be deemed valid so as to authorise any 
proceedings thereon, until the record thereof shall have been signed
and fi.led.84 
SEC. 2. No judgment shall affect any lands, tenements, real estate or
chattels real, or have any preference, as against other judgment c* 
ditors, purchasers or mortgagees, until the record thereof be filed and 
docketed as herein directed. H 
SEC. 8. At the time of filing a record of judgment, the clerk shall
~ter in an alphabetical docket, in books to be provided and kept by 
him, a statement of such judgment, containing, 
1. The names at length of all the parties to such judgment, desig­
nating particularly those against .whom it is rendered, with their pla­ 
ces of abode, titles, trades or professions, if any such are stated in 
such record : · 
2. The amount of the debt, damages, or other sum of money re- 
covered, with the costs : · 
I. The hour and day of entering such docket : 
-'· If the judgment be against several persons, such statement shall 
be repeated under the name of each person against whom the judg­
ment was recovered, in the alphabetical order of their names respec­
tively." 
SEC. 4. When a judgment shall have been obtained for monies ad- 
ced i f th I d f h I. itf d the 
van m payment o a tax on e an o t e p amt an ano r,
pW'SUalll to the seventy-third and seventy-fourth sections of the third 
Title of the thirteenth Chapter of the First Part of the Revised Sta-
tutes, such judgment shall not be entitled to the priority conferred by 
that Title, unless at the time of docketing the same, the plaintiff cause
an entry to be made by the clerk in the docket thereof, specifying
that such judgment has priority, as a lien on certain lands, over mort- 
gages and other judgments, pursuant to the laws regulating the col-
lection of taxes ; which entry shall be a part of such docket. 
SEC. 5. On the fifteenth and on the last day of every month, each
clerk of the supreme court shall transmit to the other clerks of that 
court, a transcript, duly certified; of all judgments which shall have 
been docketed in his office since the making of the previous transcript ;
which shall be a true copy of the original docket in his office. 
SEC. 6. If any clerk of the supreme court shall not receive any such
transcript within eight days after the time when the same is requir- 
ed to be sent, he shall give notice thereof immediately to the clerk
who should have transmitted the same, whose duty it shall be to send 
such transcript, or if one shall have been already sent, to transmit a
duplicate thereof. 
SEC. 7. The postage on the transmission of any transcript, shall be,~ 
paid by the treasurer, upon being audited and allowed by the comp-
troller. 
SEC. 8. Every clerk of the supreme court receiving such tranacript,
aball enter the same in the books kept by him for entering the dock-
eta of judgments, in the same manner as the dockets of judgments are 
herein required to be entered, excepting, that in the margin of such 
------- 
11 
entry, the place where the clerk's office is situated, from whicfl such
transcript was received, shall be entered. 
SEC. 9. The books in which dockets of judgments shall be entered,
shall, during the usual hours for transacting business, be open to the 
search and examination of all persons desiring the same."
SEC. 0. Every clerk who shall neglect to docket any judgment as 
soon as practicable, or who shall omit for three days after the times
herein specified, to transmit the transcript of the docket of any judg· 
ment, shall forfeit to the party aggrieved, two hundred and fifty dol­
lars, in addition to all damages which such party may have sustained 
by such omission or neglect. 
31 
SEC. 1. No recognizance taken by any court; or by any officer, shall 
bind any lands, tenements or real estate, or other property ; but such
recognizances shall be deemed to be mere evidences of debt.18 
SEC. 2. The docket of a judgment rendered in any court of record,
may be cancelled and discharged by the clerk thereof, upon filing 
with him an acknowledgment of satisfaction, signed by the party in
whose favor such judgment was obtained, or by his executors or ad­
ministrators, duly authenticated as herein after directed. 
SEC. 8. Such acknowledgment shall be made before some judge of 
the court in which the judgment was rendered, or before some judge 
of the county courts, or commissioner of deeds, who shall certify that 
the party making the same was known, or was made known, to such
officer, by competent proof. 
39 
SEC. 4. Such acknowledgment may also be made by the attorney on 
record, of the party in whose favor the same was rendered, withm two
years after the filing of the record of such judgment, in the same man· 
ner, and with the like effect, as if made by such party himself; but
such satisfaction shall not be conclusive against the party in whose 
favor the judgment was rendered, in respect to any person to whom 
actual notice of the revocation of the authority of such attorney shall 
have been given, before any payment on su~h judgment shall have
been made, or before any purchase of property bound by such judg· 
mcnt, shall have been effected. 
SEC. 5. When payment of the judgment is made, satisfaction there·
of shall be acknowledged by the attorney or plaintiff receiving the 
amount, on payment of the fees by the defendant.
SEC. 6. When an execution issued upon any judgment, shall be re· 
turned satisfied, in whole or in part, such judgment shall be deemed 
satisfied to the extent of the amount so returned as having been col· 
lected on such execution, unless such return be vacated by the eourt 
And upon any execution being so returned, the clerk of the court shall 
19 
• 
e,otel jn the docket of such judgment, the fact diat the amount stated
infJ!cb return to have been levied, has been collected. 
SEC. 7. Upon any judgment in the supreme court being discharged, 
t~ clerk with whom the record thereof was filed, shall transmit to 
the other clerks of that court, with the next transcript of dockets sent 
by him, a certificate of such fact ; and the said clerks shall thereupon 
enter in the~ respective dockets of such judgment, the fact that the 
same is discharged. · 
S&c. I. Within what time execution, may be issued.
a Esecutiona agaimt property or body.
3. Exception u to executora,heir1, legatec1, &c.
4. ExeC11tion1 against the body, not to ualle in certain cues. 
SEC. 5. UBleH defendant be imprisoned, A:e.
6. Like execatiODB in ditl'erent counties; different execution, 
7, When body taken, no other execution to issue. 
8. Bat may, if defendant eacape. 
TITLE V. 
OF EXECUTIONS, AND THE DUTIES OF OFFICERS THEREON. 
AaT. 1.-GelJ('ral Prevlsiens,
AaT. i,-Of executions against property. 
ll.T. 3.-0f remedies for failure of title to real estate sold by execution, and to enforce
contribution between several owners of lands subject to the same judgment. 
AaT, 4.-Executions against the person. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
General Provisions. 
9, htereat on certain judgments may be collected. 
SEC. 0. Endonement to be made on receipt of exeeutions. 
SEC. 1. OD judpentl against 1heri11'1, execution how to i1111e 
SEC. 2. Allltbority ud duty of person receiving such execution. 
SEC. 1. Whenever judgment shall be rendered in any court of record, 
for any debt, damages, sum of money or costs, the party in whose 
favor such judgment was rendered, upon the filing of the record there-
of, and within two years thereafter, may have execution to t~ she- 
ritr or other proper officer, to collect the amount of such judgment. 
SEC. 2. Such execution may be either, 
1. Against the goods and chattels, lands, tenements, and chattels
real of the party against w.hom such judgment was recovered : or, 
I. Against the body of such party. 
41 
! ·S. But such execution shall not issue against the body, nor 
against the proper goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of any
executor, administrator, heir, devisee or legatee, unless in these ca- 
ses lp8Cially provided by law.
SEC. 4. In those cases in which bail shall have been taken on the ar- 
re.st of a defendant, and the bail bond shall have been assigned to the
plaintiff; and in those cases in which special bail shall have been fil- 
40 
ed ; no execution shall i88Ue against the body of the defendant in IIOch 
action, until an execution against the goods and chattels, lands and 
tenements of such defendant, shall have been isned to the lherit1' of
the county in which such defendant was arrested, and shall have been 
returned unsatisfied, in whole or in put. 
49 
SEC. 5. But if the defendant be imprisoned on execution in another
cause, or upon process in the same action, or shall have t.ee.i surren­ 
dered in exoneration of his bail in such action, an executioa may ii­ 
sue against his body, without any previous execution against his pro­
perty. •2 
SEC. 6. Executions either against the body or against the property of 
any party, may be issued at the same time, to sheriffs of different eoun­
ties; but no execution against the body of any party shall ilsue, while 
there is an execution against his property not returned; nor shall an
execution against the property of any party be issued, while there is 
an execution against his body unreturned, unless by order of the court. 
~ 7 •. When the body of a party shall hav~ been tak~n on an "": 
cubon issued for that purpose, no other execution can be issued against 
him or his property, except in cases specially provided by law. 
SEC. 8. But if any penon who shall have been taken on an execution
shall escape, he may be re-taken by a new execution against his body, 
or an execution against his property may be issued, in the same man­
ner as if the body of such prisoner had never been taken in execution. 
SEC. 9. Whenever a judgment shall be rendered upon any contract, or
upon any prior judgment, and execution shall be issued thereon, it 
shall be lawful to direct, upon such execution, the collection of inte­
rest on the amount recovered, from the time of recovering the same,
until such amount be paid. 
44 
SEC. 0. Upon the receipt of any execution, it shall be the duty of the 
sheriff or other officer, to endorse thereon the year, month, day, and 
, 
hour of the day, when he received the same. 
46 
SEC. 1. In all cases where a judgment shall be obtained in any court 
• th h ·1r f ith . I 'th the =----.1 
agamst e s erm o any county, et er smg y or WI o rs, ~ 
of directing the execution thereon to the coroner of the county, it may 
be directed and delivered to any person, ( except a party in interest in 
the suit,) who shall be designated by the court in term by an order to 
be entered in the minutes, or by any judge thereof in vacation, by m 
order to be endorsed on such execution. 
~ ti. The person so designated and receiving such execution to 
execute the same, shall in respect to such execution, be deemed a
coroner of the county, and shall be liable in all respects to all the 
provisions of law respecting sheriffs, so far as the same may be ap­ 
plicable. 
4' 
ARTICLB 8BCOND. 
Of Executiona again.at Properly. 
Sac. JS. Good. bound Ollly from deliTery of exeCldion.
J4 & U. Priority or esecutiom and attachments .pimt wne ddendant.
SEC. 6. Certain exec&&tiom to hue priority Crom time of their being leried.
SEC. 7. Title of parcbuen before lery, not to be aff'ectecl. 
SEC. 8. Current coin to be lnied on and retuned.
SEC. 9. Bill, of banb, &c. may be le'ried OD ;and ,old. 
to. Jnterat o( bailor in goodl pledged, may be ,old.
SEC. 1. Notice of Ale of cbattoll, how and for what time, to be ginn. 
SEC. 2. Enamention of property exempt &om execution. 
2S. Mode of CODdacting Ale of penonal property.
SI. Form of execution for Ale of real eltate.
SEC. 5. Form apin,t he.in, teHeaants, &c.
SEC. 8. Ludt held in tnut liable to ueelltiou, &c. . 
rr. E:a:eeation1 on jadgments apimt dead penoa1 when to i11ae, &c. 
SEC. 8. Al10, on judgments agaimt penona dying in execution.
SEC. 9. Bllt D0t to be leried OD nal ellate lold by defeadallt,
SEC. 0. Nor apoa real utate actully ,old ander a judgm.ent.
SJ. F.qllity of redemption not to be sold by certain execution,.
SI. Ducription of mortgaged premi,u to be endoned Oil extcldioD, ae. 
SS. Sada execution how to be retuud.
~- Time and place of 1elling reel eatate, how to be adnrti1ed.
SEC. 5. Real Ntate to be IOld, ho,r to be dueribecl. 
SEC. 6. a.Jee of real and penoul property to be at Ta.due, and by day-light. 
:rr. Penalty for ,elling contrary to foregoing provition1.
SEC. 9. Mode of conducting Ale of real eatate.
SEC. 9. Penalty fur taking down, &:c. notice• of ,ale.
SEC. 0. V alidJty of we, not aft"ected by omiuion, of oflicen, &e.
SEC. 1. Certaia officen not to pa.rchue property ,old by execution. 
SEC. 1. Certificate to be ginn on Ale of real estate; its contents.
SEC. 3. Certificate to be filed, and copy giTen to purcbuer. 
SEC. 4. Original, and copie1; when and bow far eTidenee. 
SEC. 6. ~ and OD what term, land may be redeemed.
SEC. 6. By whom redemption may be made .
.ff. Bein and gnntea of portiona of land 1old, may redeem the whole. 
SEC. 8. Ownen ofWldivided ,bare,, may redeem 1ueb 1hare1.
SEC. 9. Sale to be Told on redemption being made. 
GO. Wiien iDterelt of purehuer may be aoqllired, if Dot redeemed, 
SEC. 1. May be acquired by creditor baTing judgment or decree, &:c.
SEC. 2. If judgment, &c. be a lien on particular Jot, &c.
SEC. 1. If it be a lien on apeemc portion ol a lot, &c.
6t. If it be a lien on an undivided ,hare.
SEC. 6. Tenm on which any other creditor may pnrchue. 
SEC. 8. Third or other crediton may elao purebue.
SEC. 7. Bight of original purclwer, if be be creditor, &c.
SEC. 8. Rights of plaintift" i1ning esecution.
SEC. 9. Suma required to whom to be paid; eft'ect ofpa,meat.
SEC. 0. ETidace or creditor', right to purchase, &c.
SEC. 1. Legal atate in lands sold, when to n,t.
8l. When conveyance to be e.,eeated; ita eff'ect. -. ,
SEC. 1. Wlau to exeeuton, &c. of purchuer.
&a. E6ect or ,uch conveyance.
SEC. 5. Aatllority of under aherie- in cue of death of 1heriJr.
SEC. 8. Proceedings if there be no Wider 1heriJt
SEC. 7. Mooey to whom to be paid, it 1berift" die, &c. 
~ IS. Whenever an execution shall be issued against the property 
r
h
. oods. d h ls · ted ithi th · isdi · 
o any penon, 1s g an c atte , situa w1 m e Jura iction
of the officer to whom such execution shall be delivered, shall be 
bound only from the time of the delivery of the same to be executed." 
-----------· _ 
SEC. 4. If there be several executions issued out of a court of record, 
against tho same defendant, that which shall have been first deliver­ 
ed to an officer to be executed, shall have preference, notwithstand­
ing a levy may be first made under another execution ; but if a levy
and sale of any goods and chattels shall have been made under such 
other execution, before an. actual levy under the execution first deliv­ 
ered, such goods and chattels shall not be levied upon or sold by vir­
tue of such first execution. 
SEC. 5. If there be one or more executions, and one or more attach-
meats against the property of the same defendant, or if there be seve- 
ral attachments, the same rule prescribed in the last section shall pre­ 
vail, in determining the preference of such execution or attachment, 
SEC. 6. But any execution or attachment issued out of any court not 
being a court of record, if actually levied, shall have preJerence over
any other execution issued out of any court whether of record or not, 
which shall not have been previously levied. 
SEC. 7. The title of any purchaser in good faith, of any goods or
chattels, acquired prior to the actual levy of any execution, without
notice of such execution being issued, shall not be divestedby the fact 
that such execution had been delivered to an officer to be executed, 
before such purchase was made. 
SEC. 8. Upon executions against the property of a defendant, the of- 
ficer shall levy upon any current gold or silver coin belonging to sue
defendant, and shall pay and return the same as so much money col· 
Iected, without exposing the same for sale at auction. 
SEC. 9. Upon such executions, the officer may levy upon and sell
he id ed 
any bills or ot r evi ences of debt, issued by any moni corpora· 
tion, or by the government of the United States, and circulated as 
money, which shall belong to the defendant in such execution. 
SEC. 0. When goods or chattels shall be pledged for the payment of
money, or the performance of any contract or agreement, the right 
and interest in such goods, of the person making such pledge, may be 
sold on execution against him, and the purchaser shall acquire all 
the right and interest of the defendant, and .shall be entitled to the 
possession of such~ and chattels, on complying with the terms
and conditions of tllf pledge. • 
SEC. 1. No sale of any goods or chattels shall be made by virtue of 
any execution, unless previous notice of such sale shall have ~ 
given six days successively, by fastening up written or printed ?°b- 
ees thereof, in three public places of the town where such sale is to
be had, specifying the time and place where the same is intended to 
be bad.'7 
h 
SEC. 2. 'The fullowing property, when owned by any person being
a householder, shall be exempt from levy and sale, under any execu-P~rt
tion, and such articles thereof as are moveable, shall continue so ex-
empt, while the family of such person, or any of them, may be re- 
moving from one place of residence to another : 
1. AU spinning-wheels, weaving-looms and stoves, put up or kept
for use, in any dwelling-house : 
2. The family bible, family pictures and school books, used by or
in the family of such person ; and books not exceeding in value fifty 
dollars, which are kept and used as part of the family library: 
a. A seat or pew occupied by such person or his family in any
house or place of public worship : 
,. All sheep to the number of ten, with their fleeces, and the yam
or cloth manufactured from the same ; one cow, two swine, the ne­ 
cessary food for them ; all necessary pork, beef, fish, flour and vegeta­
bles, actually provided for family use ; and necessary fuel for the u,e 
of the family for-sixty days : 
5. All necessary wearing apparel, beds, bedsteads and bedding, for
such person and his family; arms and accoutrements, required by 
law to be kept by such person ; necessary cooking utensils ; one ta­
ble ; six chairs ; six knives and forks ; six plates ; six teacups and
saucers; one sugar-dish; one milk-pot; one tea-pot and six spoons;
one crane and its appendages; one pair of andirons, and a shovel and 
tongs: 
6. The tools and implements of any mechanic, necess&ry to the
carrying on of his trade, not exceeding twenty-five dollars in value. 
~ 2S. No personal property shall be exposed for sale, unless the 
Mme be present and within the view of those attending such sale ; it
shall 'be offered for sale in such lots and parcels as shall be calcalated 
to bring the highest price.
SEC. 4. Executions to authorise the sale of real estate, shall com- 
mand the officer to whom they are directed, that of tbegoods and chat-:::!":,~~
tels of the person against whom such execution shall issue, in the 
county of such officer, he shall cause to be made the debt, damages, 
ot otlaer sum of money, and costs, for which the judgment was ren-
dered ; and if sufficient goods and chattels cannot be found, that then
he cause the amount of such judgment to be made of the teal estate of 
the person against whom such judgment was rendered, which such
penon shall have bad, at the time of docketing such judgment, speci-
fying such time, or at any time afterwards, in whose hands soever the
same may then be. 
49 
• 
SEC. 5. If execution be issued upon a judgment rendered against any
penon as ter-tenant, heir or devisee of any deceased person, it shall 
command the amount of such judgment to be made of the real estat.e 
48 
whereof the ancestor, testator or person deceased, was aeised at the
time the 18Dle real estate became liable, or at any time afterwards,
or at the time of the death of such ancestor, testator or other deceas­ 
ed person, as the case may require, unless such heir, devisee or ter­
tenant shall have made his own estate liable to such judgment. 
SEC. 6. Lands, tenements and real estate, holden by any one in trus~
or for the use of another, shall be liable to debts, judgments, decrees, 
executions and attachments, against the person to whose use they are
holden, in the cues and in the manner prescribed in the first Chapter 
of the Second Part of the Revised Statutes. 
SEC. 7. If a party die after judgment rendered against him, but be­
fore execution issued thereon, the remedy on such judgments shall not
be suspended by reason of the non-age of any heir of such party ; but
no execution shall iMue on eny such judgment, until the expiration of
one year after the death of the party against whom the same was ren­ 
dered. 6' 
SEC. 8. If any person taken in execution against his body, shall die
while so charged, new executions may be issued against the goods, 
chattels, lands and tenements of the deceased, in the same manner a.5 
if he had never been charged in execution. 
12 
SEC. 9. But such new executions shall not be levied upon any real 
estate which the deceased, aft.er the judgment rendered against him,
shall have sold in good faith. 
0 
, SO. Nor shall such new executions be levied upon any real estate 
which shall have been actually sold under any other prior or subse-
quent judgment against the penon so dying in execution. 
, St. When a judgment shall be recovered for a debt secured by
mortgage of real estate, or for any part of such debt, it shall not be 
lawful for the sheriff to sell the equity of redemption of the mortgagor,
his heirs or assigns, in such estate, by virtue of any execution upon 
such judgment. 
SEC. 2. Whenever any execution against the property of the defen-
dant shall be issued upon such judgment, the plaintiff's attorney shall 
endorse thereon a brief description of the premises mortgsged, refer­
ring to the page and book of the record in which such mortgage is re­ 
corded, with a direction to the sheriff not to levy·such execution upon 
the said premises, or any part thereof. 
, SS. H such execution shall not be collected of the other property 
of the defendant, the sheriff shall return the same unsatisfied, in whole
or in part, as the cue may require. 
SEC. 4. The time and place of holding any sale of real estate pursu­
ant to any execution, shall be publicly advertised, previously, for six
weeks successively, as follows: 
62 
60 
1. A written or printed notice thereof shall be fastened up in three
public places in the town where such real estate shall be sold, and if 
such sale be in a town different from that in which the premises to be
sold are situated, then such notice shall also be fastened up in three
public places of the town in which the premises are situated : 
9. A copy of such notice shall be printed once in each week in a 
newspaper of such county, if there be one :
a. If there be no newspaper printed in such county, and the premi­ 
ses to be sold are not occupied by any penon against whom the exe­
cution is issued, or by some person holding the same as tenant or pur­
chuer under such person, then such notice shall be published in the
state paper, once in each week. 
68 
SEC. 5. In every such notice, the real estate to be sold shall be de-
ICl'ihed with common certainty, by setting forth the name of the town- 
ship or tract, and the number of the lot, if there be any, and if there 
be none, by some other appropriate description. 
68 
SEC. 6. The sale of real estate, or of any personal property, by vir-
tue of any execution, shall be at public vendue, between the hour oft; 
nine o'clock in the morning and the setting of the sun.111 
SEC. 7. Any officer who shall sell any real estate without the previ-
ous notices herein directed, or otherwise than in the manner herein 
pre1eribed, shall forfeit one thousand dollars to the party injured, in
addition to any damages which such party may sustain.11 
SEC. 8. When real estate offered for sale by virtue of any execution,
sball consist of several known lots, tracts or parcels, such lots, tracts
or parcels shall be separately expoeed for sale ; and if any penon 
claiming to be the owner of any portion of such estate, or of such lots,
tracts or parcels, or either of them, or claiming to be entitled by ]Aw 
to redeem any such portion, shall require such portion to be exposed 
b ale aeparately, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to expose the same
for sale accordingly. No more of any real estate shall be exposed for 
ale, than shall appear necessary to satisfy the execution. 
SEC. 9. If any person shall take down or deface any notice of a sale
of real or penonal property, put up by any sheriff, previous to the day 
or me therein specified, unless upon satisfaction of the execution by
virtue of which such notice shall have been given, or upon the con- 
aent of the party suing out such execution, and of the defendant there- 
in, 1ucll person shall forfeit fifty dollars to the party in whose favor 
such execution was issued. 
64 
SEC. 0. The omission of any sheriff or other officer to give the notice
of ale herein required, or the taking down or defacing of any such no- 
tice when put up, shall not affect the validity of any sale made to a 
purdwer in good faith, without notice of any such omission Q~ of. 
SEC. 1. The sheriff' or other officer to whom any execution shall be 
directed, and the deputy of such sheriff or officer, holding any execn-
tion and conducting any sale of property in pursuance thereof, shall
not, directly or indirectly, purchase any property whatever, at any 
sale by virtue of such execution ; and all purchases made by such
sheriff, officer or deputy, or to his use, shall be void·.61 
SEC. 2. Upon the sale of real estate by virtue of any execution, the 
officer making the same shall make out and subscribe duplicate cer- 
tificates of such sale, containing, 
1. A particular description of the premises sold : 
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel : 
a. The whole consideration money paid: 
"· The time when such sale will become absolute, and the pur­ 
chaser will be entitled to a conveyance, pursuant to law." 
SEC. 8. One of the said duplicate certificates shall, within ten days 
after such sale, be filed in the office of the clerk of the county, and 
the other shall be delivered to the purchaser. If there be two or more 
purchasers, a certificate shall be delivered to each. 
51 
SEC. 4. Such original certificate, upon being proved or acknowledg- 
ed in tho manner required by law to entitle deeds to be recorded, or a
copy of such original, duly certified by the clerk in whose office such 
original is filed, shall be received as presumptive evidence of the facts
therein contained. 
SEC. 5. Within one year from the time when such sale shall have 
be ad th 1 ld di · l
en m e, e rea estate so so , or any 1stmct ot, tract or portion 
that may have been separately sold, may be redeemed, by the pay· 
ment to the purchaser, his personal representatives or as.,ignees, or to 
the officer who made such sale, for the use of such purchaser, of the
sum of money which was bid on the sale of such lot or tract, together
with the interest on that sum from the time of sale, at the rate often 
per cent. a year. 
68 
SEC. 6. Such redemption may be made, 
B h . · 
1. y t e person agamst whom the execution waaissued, and·wh~ 
right and title were sold in pursuance thereof: or, 
2. If such person be dead, by his devisee of the premises sold, if the 
same shall have been devised ; and if tho same shall not ban been
devised, by the heirs of such person: or, 
3. By any grantee of such person, who shall have acquiredaa abso­ 
lute title by deed, sale under mortgage, or under an execution, or by 
any other means, to the premises sold, or to any lot, tract, parcel or
portion which shall have been separately sold. 
68 
J 4;. Any heir or devlsee of the person against whom the execu-
tion was issued, and any grantee of such person who shall have acquir- 
ed an absolute title to a portion of the estate sold, or to a portion of~~n~r:;r·
any lot, tract or parcel that shall have been separately sold, may re-~°:
deem the lot, tract or parcel so sold, on the same terms, and in the 
same manner as if he were grantee of the whole lot, tract or parcel, 
and shall have the same remedy to enforce contribution from those who 
shall own the residue of such tract, lot or parcel, as if the sum requir-
ed to be paid by him to effect such redemption, had been collected by
a sale of the portion belonging to such grantee. 
SEC. 8. If there be several persons having undivided shares, as joint 
tenanm, or as tenants in common, in the premises sold, or in any par-
ticuJar lot or tract sold, each person having such title may redeem the 
share or interest belonging to him, by paying to the purchaser, or to 
the officer, as herein directed, a sum that will bear the same propor-
tion to the whole purchase money bid for such premises, or for such 
particular lot or tract, as the share proposed to be redeemed, bears to 
the whole number of shares in such premises, or lot or tract, together
with the interest on such sum, at tho rate of ten per cent. a year. 
SEC. 9. U poa such payment being made by any person so entitled to
redeem any real estate so sold, the sale of the premises so redeemed, 
and the certificates of such sale, shall be null and void. 
69 
SEC. 0. In case the persons entitled as herein before provided, shall 
• • • • 
8llrit to redeem the premises SO sold, or any part of them w1thm the
year above prescribed, then the interest vested in the purchaser by
•h sale may be acquired within three months after the expiration 
of ncla year, by the persons and on the terms herein aft.er prescrib-
ed.eo 
SEC. 1. Any creditor of the person against whom such execution is- 
• • 
sued, having in hie own name, or as assignee, representative, trustee
or otherwise, a decree in chancery or a judgment at law, rendered at
any time before the expiration of fifteen months from the time of such 
sale, aod which shall be a lien and charge upon the premises sold, by 
payilag the sum of money which was paid on the sale of such premises, 
together with interest thereon at the rate of seven per cent. a year from
the time of such sale, shall thereby acquire all the rights of the origi- 
nal purchaser, subject to be defeated in tho manner herein after men­
tioned. 60 
SEC. 2. If such judgment or decree be a lien on any lot, tract or par-
eel 
. .
that shall have been separately sold, the creditor havmg the same, 
by paying u before provided, the sum which shall have been bid for
such lot, tract, or parcel, wjth interest as above mentioned, shall there- 
by acquire all the rights of the original purchaser, to such lot, tract or
parcel, subject to be defeated as herein after provided. 
SEC. 8. If such J' udgment or decree be a lien on a snecific portion only 
-r-- 
of any lot, tract or parcel so sold, the creditor having the same may 
acquire the title of the purchaser to the whole of such lot, tract or par·
eel, in the same manner as if such lien extended to the whole. 
SEC. 4. Any such creditor having such decree or judgment, which
is a lien upon any undivided share or interest in any real estate sold 
under execution, may, within the same time, on the same terms, and 
in the same manner, acquire the title of the original purchaser to such
share or interest, by paying such part of the whole purchase money
of such real estate, as shall be in a just proportion to the amount of
such share or interest. 
SEC. 5. Whenever any such creditor shall have acquired the title of
th • • l h th t'. • • • th 
e ongma pure aser, pursuant to e ,oregomg provisions, any o er
creditor, who might have acquired such title according to the said pro­ 
visions, may become a purchaser thereof from the first creditor who
acquired the same, upon the following conditions : 
1. By reimbursing to such first creditor, his personal representa­
tives or assigns, tl!e sum which may have been paid by him to acquire 
such title, together with interest thereon at the rate :or seven per cent. 
a year, from the time of such payment, to the time of such reimburse­ 
ment: 
2. If the judgment or decree by virtue of which the first creditor 
acquired the title of the original purchaser, be prior to the judgment
or decree of such second creditor, then such second creditor shall also 
pay to such first creditor, the amount due on his judgment or decree: 
a. But if such judgment or decree of the first creditor, at the time 
of his acquiring the title of the original purchaser, shall have ceased 
to be a lien as against such second creditor, it shall not be necessary 
to pay the amount thereof. 
61 
SEC. 6. In the same manner, any third or other creditor, who might, 
' al
according to the foregoing provisions, acquire the title of the origm 
purchaser, may become a purchaser thereof from the second, third, or 
any other creditor, who may have become such purchaser from any 
other creditor, upon the same terms and conditions specified in the
last section.81 
SEC. 7. If the original purchaser of any premises so sold, shall also be
a creditor of the defendant against whom the execution issued, and
as such might acquire the title of any purchaser, according to the
preceding provisions, be may avail himself of his decree or judgment, 
in the same manner, and on the same terms herein prescribed, to ac· 
quire the title which any creditor may have obtained. 
SEC. 8. The plaintiff under whose execution any real estate s&all
have been sold, shall not be authorised to acquire the title of the ori- 
ginal purchaser, or of any creditor, to the premises so sold by virtue
of the decree or judgment on which such execution issued ; and if he 
have any other decree or judgment, which would entitle him to ac-
quire such title, according to the preceding provisions, he may avail 
himself of such other decree or judgment, in the same manner, and
on the same terms, as any other creditor. 
SEC. 9. The sums required to be paid, by the foregoing provisions, 
to acquire the title ~f the original purchaser, or to become a ~ur- 
chaser from any creditor, may be paid to such purchaser or creditor, 
his represent.atives or assigns, or to the officer who made the sale, for
the use of the purchaser or creditor entitled to the same. Upon such
payment being made, the title of the original purchaser shall be there- 
by transferred to the creditor acquiring the same, pursuant to the
foregoing provisions, and from such creditor to any other creditor be-
coming a purchaser thereof, as herein before provided. 
82 
SEC. 0. To entitle any creditor to acquire the title of the original 
• 
purchaser, or to become a purchaser from any other creditor, pursu-~toc·
ant to the foregoing provisions, he shall present to and leave with 
such purchaser or creditor, or the officer who made the sale, the fol­ 
lowing evidence of his right : 
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment or decree under which he
claims the right to purchase, duly certified by the clerk of the court
or of the county in which the same is docketed : 
s, A true copy of all the assignments of such judgment or decree,
which are necessary to establish his claim, verified by his affidavit,
or by the affidavit of some witness to such assignments : 
a. An affidavit by such creditor, or by his attorney or agent, of 
the true sum due on such judgment or decree, at the time of claiming
such right to purchase. 
SEC. 1. The right and title of the person against whom the execu-WJiea1r1
tlon was issued, to any real est.ate which shall be sold thereby, shall
not be divested by such sale, until the · expiration of fifteen months 
from the time of such sale ; but if such real estate shall not have 
been redeemed as herein provided, and a deed shall be executed in
pursuance of a sale, the grantee in such deed, shall be deemed vested
with the legal estate from the time of the sale on such execution, for 
the purpose of maintaining an action for any injury to such real es-
tate. 
SEC. 1. After the expiration of fifteen months from the time of the 
Bale of any real estate, if any part of the premises sold shall remain 
unredeemed by the person against whom the execution issued; or by
any penon entitled to redeem the same within one year from the 
time of such sale, according to the foregoing provisions, then the affi.
cer .making such sale shall complete the same, by executing a con· 
veyance of the premises so remaining unredeemed, either to the ori­
ginal purchaser, or to the creditor who may have acquired the title of
such 9r.iginal purchaser, or to the creditor who may have purchased 
nch title from any other creditor, as the case may be; which con­ 
Teyance shall be valid and effectual to convey all the right, title and 
interest, which was sold by such officer. ea 
SEC. 8. In case the person who, by the provisions of the preceding 
sections, woulcl be entitled to a conveyance of any real estate sold by 
virtue of an execution, shall die previous to the delivery of such con­
vqauce, tbe officer making such sale shall execute and deliver such 
conveyance to the executors or administrators of the person so de­ 
ceued." 
SEC. 4. The real estate 10 conveyed, shall be held in trust for the 
_, .C die b8U'S of such deceased person, subject to the dower of lus
widow, if there be any ; but may be sold for the payment oC his debts, 
~T the order of any surrogate or court of equity, in the same maDDer 
lcl8 lands whereof such deceased person died seised. 
641 
~ 66.. If any Iberia' to whom an execution shall be delivered, tiie 
be ed fr _a: befo • be . • ed hi 
QI' remov OJll U1¥00 re sudl executioo aatui , S un-
der sheriff shall proceed thereon, in the same manner Jl8 the al.if 
might have done ; aDd ii a sheriff who hu sold any real estate. die or 
be removed before -exer.11ting any conveyance w purmance of such 
sale, such conveyance Bhall be executed by his under sherilf, in the 
saBle inanner, and with the like etfect, as if deae by the sberilf. 
SEC. 6. If there be no such under sl:.eriff, the cawt from which the
eel th li • of the 1-:- .. :4' ' 
execution JSSU may, Oil e app cation puwn.lll, appoint IOIDe 
Ritahle person to prooeed on such execution, and complete the same,
~ of such under sheriff ; and on the application of any penoo 
entitled to a conveyance, the court mny appoint a proper person te
execute the same. The person so appointed shall give such security
as the court may require, and shall have the same power in relatioB 
to the object of his appointment, as the aheriff so dying or removed. 
SEC. 7. If Rily sheriff shall die or be remoTed from. offil'A_ after haT· 
iRg made sale of any real estate, the monies herein required to be paid 
lo him for .the redemption of such estate, or for the purpoee of acqnir·
ing the title of the original purchaser, may be paid to hil under 
sheriff, or to the clerk of the county, in the same manner, and with 
the like effect, as if paid to such sheriff. 
-, 
66 
• 
ARTICLE TII.IBD. 
0/ Bemedka for Fai!Mre of Title to Real E,tale sold by a,,..~ 
twn, and to enforce Contribution bett11un aewral Oumen· of 
Landa wl>ject to the same Judgment. 
SEC. 8. Casea ia wlueh pvehuel' may recoftl'. 
et. Bemedy ilr the pJaintiB'to~colleot the 11Ua refanded.
SEC. 0. Cua in which contnouti.on may be enforced.
SEC. 1. Order in which land, ,hall be liable to contnoute. 
SEC. 3. ProceediDp in chancery for centnoution. 
7S. Lien of original judgment bow procured by affidavit.
SEC. 5. Proteemg, ud fee of clerk on filing af&darit. 
SEC. 8. If the purchaser of any real estate, sold by virtue of an ex--'!?.!:::
eeution, his heirs or assigns, shall be evicted from the possession ofreco•er. 
such real estate, or if in an action for the recovery thereof, judgment 
shall be rendered against him, in consequence,
r, or any irregularity in the proceedings concerning sucli sale 
or, 
2. Of the judgment upon which such execution issued bei1tg va­
cated or reversed : 
SIH'h purchaser, his heirs or assigns, may recover of the party for 
who&e benefit such real estate was sold, the amount paid on the pur•
chase thereof, with interest. 
66 
SEC. 9. The party for whose benefit such real estate was sold, and
his personal representatives, upon such recovery being had against 
him in consequence of any irregularity in the proceedings concerning 
811ch sale, may have further execution upon the judgment by virtue
of which such sale was made, to levy the sum paid.on such sale,
with interest ; and such judgment shall be deemed valid and effectual 
fer that purpose, agaimt the- defendant therein, his personal repre­
aentatives, heirs and derisees, but not against any purchaser in good
faith, or any incumbrancer by mortgage, judgment or otherwise,
whose title or whose incumbrance shall have accrued bEoore the le"1 
of auch further execution. 
86 
SEC. 0. ~en lane!:' and ten~ments, in the hands of several persons; 
8hall be Iiable to satisfy any Judgment, and the whole of such judg- 
ment, or more than a due proportion thereof, shall be levied upon
· the lands of any one or more of such persons, the persons so aggriev­ 
ed, or their personal representatives; may compel a just and equal 
contribution by all the persons whose lands and tenements ought to 
contribute to the satisfaction of such judgment. se
SEC. 1. Such lands and tenements shall be liable to such contribu- 
ti
. • h '"- 11 • d 
on, m t e 10 owmg or er : 
1. If they were conveyed by the defendant in the execution, they
shall be liable in succession, commencing with the lands last con­ 
veyed: 
s, If they were sold under execution against the defendant, they 
shall al,o be liable in succession, commencing with the lands aold
under the last and youngest judgment: 
a. If there be lands so liable, which were conveyed by the defen­
dant in the execution, and also lands which have been sold under ex·
ecution against such defendant, they shall respectively be liable in
succession according to the order herein prescribed. 
SEC. 2. If a bill be filed in the court of chancery to compel such con­ 
tribution, the person aggrieved shall be entitled to use the original
judgment, and by virtue thereof, to lery the amount which ought to
be contributed by the lands and tenements subject to such judgment;
and for that purpose, such judgment shall remain a lien and charge
upon such lands and tenements, for the term of ten years from the 
docketing thereof, to the extent of the sum which ought to be so con­ 
tributed, notwithstanding such sum, or any part thereof, may have
been paid by the party seeking such contribution. 
~ '7S. But such original judgment shall not remain a lien upon any 
lands, nor shall they be subject to an execution as herein provided,
unless the person aggrieved, within twenty days after the payment of
any sum of money by him, for which he shall claim a contribution,
shall file an affidavit with a clerk of the court in which the original
judgment was rendered, stating the sum paid, and his claim to use
such judgment for the reimbursement thereof. 
SEC. 4. On the filing of such affidavit, the clerk shall make an en·
try in the margin of the docket of such judgment, stating the sum
so paid, and that such judgment is claimed to ~ a lien to that amount. 
If such judgment be in the supreme court, such clerk shall ~ tranS­ 
mit a copy of such entry to the other clerks of that court, at thl! same 
time with his docket of judgments, and the like entry shall be made
by such clerks in the margin of their dockets of such judgments. 
SEC. 5. The same fee shall be paid on filing any such affidavit 88 
for the filing and docketing a record of judgment. 
A.BTIOLE FOURTH. 
EzecutioM asaiMt the Person. 
SEC. 8. J'enoa, Uftlted OD execution, bow to be kept.
SEC. 7. Penom 1unendered by bail, how to be kept. 
SEC. 6. Whenever any person shall be arrested bv virtue of an exe- 
.I 
cution issued upon any judgment rendered in a court of record, he
shall be safely kept in secure custody, in the manner prescribed by
law, at his own expense, until he shall satisfy such execution, or be 
discharged according to law. n 
SEC. 7. Every person surrendered in exoneration of his bail, shall
be kept in like manner, until he shall satisfy the J0 udgment rendered 
against him, or be discharged according to law. 
PROVISIONS CONCERNING CERTAIN PROCEEDINGS IN THE PROGRESS
OF AN ACTION ATLA\V. 
A&T. 1.-0t proceedinga againai joint debtors.
AI.T. !.-Of proceedings on bonds for the performance of covenauts. 
AB.T. 3.-0f bail, and proceedings to charge and exonerate them.
AH. '--Of co11110lidating and referring causes. 
ARTICLE FIBST. 
OJ Proceedings against Joint Debtors. 
S.c. l. Judgment iD utiou lpinri joint debtora. 
t. Etfect of judgment u to the diff'erent defendant.. 
S. Form of execution; endorsement. to be made the.reud.
SEC. 4. Proceedinp oD executiOD. 
SEC. 1. In actions against two or more persons jointly indebted upon 
any joint obligation, contract or liability, if the process issued against
all the defendants shall have been duly served upon either of them, 
the defendant so served shall answer to the plaintiff; and in such 
case, the judgment, if rendered in favor of the plaintiff; shall be against 
all the defendants in the same manner as if all bad been served with 
process.61 
TITLE VI. 
. 
68 
SEC. 2. Such judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the liability
of the defendant who was personally served with proce88 in the suit, 
or who appeared therein ; but against every other defendant, it shall
be evidence only of the extent of the plaintiff's demand, a• the
liability of such defendant shall have been established by other evi- 
dence.
~ S. Execution upon every such judgment shall be issued in form 
against all the defendants, but the attorney issuing the same . .shall en- 
dorse thereon the names of such of the defendants as were not served 
with the process by which the action was commenced, and shall di-
rect such execution to be served, as provided in the next section. 
SEC. 4. Such execution shall not be served upon the person o( any
defendant wlu>se name is soendorsed thereon; nor shall it be levied 
on the sole property of any such defendant ; but it may be collected
of the personal property of any such defendant, owned by him as a 
partner with the other defendants taken, or with any of them. 
89 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
OJ Procudiag• °" Bonda for t1&e Performance uf Cm,etlGiata. 
SEC. 6. ID certain actiou, breecbee to be INigu4 ia deolantion.
8. Damage9 to be uaealed by jlU'J on trial. 
SEC. 7. ID what cue.a writ of inquiry to iuue. 
8. Or dalmgel may be u1ealed at circait coart. 
9. Verdict for damage9 to be entered; judgment thereon.
SEC. 0. Ezec11tion1 1pecial endonement and directiOD1 thereon.
SEC. 1. B&ct of collectiDg damapa uau1ed.
SEC. 4. Proceeding, for furtlaer breachea.
SEC. 5. Ueet of nrdict for defendant on uaignment of breaehea. 
5. When an action shall be prosecuted in any court of law, upon
any bond for the breach of any condition other than for the payment 
of money, or shall be prosecuted for any penal sum for the non-per­
formance of any covenant or written agreement, the plaintiff, in his
declaration, shall assign the specific breaches for which the action is 
brought. ,o · 
SEC. 6. Upon the trial of such action, if the jury find that any assign­ 
ment of such breaches is true, and that the plaintiff should recover
damages therefor, they shall assess such damages, and shall specify
the amount thereof in their verdict, in addition to their finding upon 
any other question of fact submitted to them.'1° 
SEC. 7. If in such action, the plaintiff shall obtain judgment, upon de- 
murrer, or by confession, or by default, a writ of inquiry shall iuue to
the aheri6" of the county in which the venue is laid, to inquire into the 
truth of the breaches assigned, and to assess the damages of the plain­
tiff' austained thereby ; which shall be executed and returned as other 
writs of inquiry.'10 
SEC. 8. Instead of issuing a writ of inquiry, as provided in the last 
section, the plaintiff may make up a circuit roll of the pleadings and 
proceedings in such action, with an entry of an order therein, that the
truth of the breaches assigned be inquired· into, and the damages SUl­ 
tained thereby, be assessed, at the next circuit court to be held in the
county in which the venue in such action is laid ; and· such circuit
court shan proceed thereon, pursuant to such order' in the same man­
ner u in other causes sent to that court to be tried, and shall ill like 
manner retum the verdict of the jury thereupon. 'JO 
9. In every such action, if the plaintiff recover, the verdict oft.be
jury assessing the plaintiff's damages, shall be entered on the record,
aad judgment shall be rendered for the penalty of the bond, or for the
penal sum forieited, as in other actions of debt, together with costs of
suit, and with a further judgment that the plaintiff have execution to 
collect the amount of the damages so assessed by the jury ; which da­
mages shall be specified in ssch judgment. 
SEC. 0. The execution upon such judgment, shall be in the usual
form in actions of debt, but shall have endorsed thereon by the attor- 
ney issuing the same, a direction to the sheriff' to collect the amount
of the damages so assessed, which amount shall be stated, with the in 
terest thereon from the time of such assessment, and the costs of such
suit. 
SEC. 1. If the amount so authorised to be levied, shall be collected,
or the plaintiff" shall be fully paid and satisfied for the same, the real 
and personal estate, and the body of the defendant, shall be exonerat-
ed and discharged from any further liability for the damages .o assess- 
ed ; but the judgment rendered in such action shall remain as a secu
rity for any damages that may be thereafter sustained by the further 
breach of any condition of such bond, or by the non-performance of
any other covenant or written agreement, by the defendant, the per 
formance of which was secured by such penal sum. 
I 1!. Whe.never such further breaches shall occur, the plaintiff; or 
1.: l • h • .r,. • h • d 
ms persona representatives, may ave a BetreJacw, upon sue JU g- 
ment, suggesting such breaches, against the defendant and all parties
hound thereby, and commanding that they be summoned to show
cause why execution should not be had upon such judgment, for the 
amount of the damages sustained by such further breaches. '1 
~ 1 S. The like proceedings, to ascertain such damages, shall be bad
upon such writ, as are herein provided in the first instance, and if the 
plaintiff" recover, judgment shall be rendered that the plaintiff' have 
execution to collect the amount of the damages that shall havebeen 
u.essed by the jury. "1 
SEC. 4. Uponpayment or satisfaction of the amount of damages so
found, with interest thereon, and the costs and charges of the pro­
ceedings, the real and personal estate of the defendant, and his body,
shall in like manner be discharged and exonerated from any liability 
for the damages so assessed ; but such judgment shall remain as secu­ 
rity for further breaches as herein before provided.
SEC. 5. Whenever, in any action brought according to the provisions 
of this Article, the jury shall find that any assignment of breaches is not~~•
true, the same shall be a bar to any other. or further suit, by acire f• 
cia or otherwise, for the recovery of any damages alleged to have
been sustained by occasion of the same breaches so assigned. 
-- 
A.llTIOLE TBill.D. 
Of Bail, and Proceedings to charge and e:eonerate them. 
SEC. 6. Power of court.I to relieve bail on the arreat. 
17, Bail in aupmne court before whom to be taken. 
SEC. 8. Bef'ore whom to be taken In common pleu.
19, Bail to Rbeeribe hia name to the bail piece.
SEC. 0. When bail may be examined concerning their estate, Ice. 
21, Before wbom defendant may be remanded by bail, Ice. 
SEC. 2. Proceedinga to afl'ect aUJTender. 
SEC. 8. SarreDder otdelendab in uother cout7, &c. 
2'. Certain orden by whom to be made.
SEC. 5. Dat7 of aheri.f'in keeping defendant 10 nrftftdered.
,S. Cue. in which discharge may be ncated.
SEC. 7. Execution after aach surrender; duty of sheriff thereon.
SEC. 8. Statement to be endorsed on aacb execution. 
29, Sarrender of defendant who hu given bail bond.
SEC. 0. Proceeding, to effect surrender in 1ueh eue.
SEC. 1. ExeeutiOlll to be i1111ed, &c. before lllill against apeeial bail.
SEC. 2. Daty elf 1beriJI' to es:ttute ncb u:eeutiOlll 
SEC. 8. Pleu by bail in bv of 1uiu againat bail.
M. Bail to be relieved on death of defendant in certain euea. 
SEC. 6. Scire faeiu against bail to be penonally se"ed. 
! 1~. When an action shall be brought upon any bail bond taken 
on the arrest of a defendant, that shall have been assigned to the
plaintiff, the court in which such action shall be pending, may give
such relief to the defendants therein as may be just ; and all orders of
such court for that purpose, shall have the effect of a defeasance of 
such bail bond. 
72 
SEC. 7. Acknowledgments of special bail, in actions in the supreme 
be k bef • h d 
court, may ta en tore any justice t ereof, any circuit ju gc, su-
preme court commissioner, judge of any county court, commissioner 
of deeds, or special justice in the city of New- York. 'I'& 
SEC. 8. Such acknowledgments in actions pending in any court of 
common pleas, may be taken before any of the judges thereof, or any 
commissioner of deeds appointed for the county in which such court
it held.14 
SEC. 9. No acknowledgment of special bail shall be taken, unless 
the person making the same shall have previously subscribed his
name to the bail piece. '1'5 
~ !O. Every officer authorised to take the acknowledgment of
h 
bail, whenever required by any person interested in the suit in whic 
such bail shall be given, shall examine on oath the person offering to
become bail, concerning the value of their estate, and their personal
circumstances. 'l'G 
SEC. 1. The bail of any defendantmay surrender him, or such de- 
d d hi lf • . f hi b il bef 
ren ant may surren er imse m exoneration o is at , tore any 
justice or judge of the court in which the action is pending; and- if 
such action be in the supreme court, before any circuit judge, supremo
court commissioner, or any judge of a county court. TT 
SEC. 2. The proceedings to effect such surrender, shall be as follows; 
1. There shall be produced to the officer authorised to accept the 
same, two certified copies of the bail piece, upon one of which, such 
officer shall endorse an order that the defendant be committed to the 
custody of the sheriff, in exoneration of his bail, which shall be deli· 
nred to such sheriff, and shall authorise him to commit and detain
such defendant, until he shall be duly discharged : 
SEC. 2. Upon producing to such officer the certificate of the sheriff, that
the defendant has been committed to, and remains in, his custody, by
virtue of such order of commitment, acknowledged before such offi­ 
cer by the sheriff, or proved by a subscribing witness thereto, an or­ 
der shall be granted by such officer, requiring the plaintiff to shew
cause before him, at such time and place as he shall appoint, why the
bail of such defendant should not be exonerated from their liability : 
a, Upon producing proof of the due service of such order, on the 
plaintiff or his attorney, such officer shall proceed to hear the allega-
tions and proofs of the parties ; and if no good cause to the contrary 
appear, shall endorse an order on the second certified copy of the bail
piece, reciting the proceedings had before him, and thereby declaring
that the bail of such defendant are discharged from all liability as such
bail, in the suit in which such bail piece was taken : 
4. To such certified copy of the bail piece shall be attached the cer-
tificate of the sheriff herein before required, with the acknowledg- 
ment or proof thereof, the order to show cause, and the proofof the
service thereof, which papers shall be immediately filed in the office 
of a clerk of the court; and until so filed, the liability of such bail shall
continue. 
~ 2S. If the defendant in any suit which may be pending in any
court of common pleas or mayor's court, shall be committed to the::~~;~ 
jail of any county other than that in which such court is held, he may 
be surrendered by his bail, or may surrender himself, in their exone-
ration, to the sheriff of the county in whose custody such defendant 
may be.'78 
SEC. 4. In such case, the order for the commitment of the defendant, 
the order to show cause, and that to discharge the bail, shall be made 
by a judge of the court in which the action may be pending, and in
which the bail was given, or by a supreme court commissioner.79 
SEC. 5. The sheriff to whom such surrender shall be made, shall be
bound to keep and detain the defendant so surrendered, in the same 
manner as if the same had been made, in a suit pending in a court of
common pleas of the county of which he is sheriff, and shall in like
manner be liable for any escape or other neglect or violation of duty. 78 
SEC. 6. The discharge of the bail granted when the defendant shall
be so surrendered in another county, may be vacated Ly the court in 
-which the action is pending, upon proof that the defendant was com-
mitted to the jail of such other county, by col1usion between himself
and his bail, or between him and any other person, for the purpose of 
being se 1t1rrendered, in order to defraud the plaintiff" in the action in 
which such surrender shall have been made. '1" 
SEC. 7. The plaintiff in the suit in which such surrender shall have
been made, after judgment therein, may issue execution against the 
body of the defendant, to the sheriff of the county to whom such de­
fendant was surrendered, who shall execute the same in like manner 
as if issued ouf of the court of common pleas of the county of which 
he is sheriff, and shall in like manner be liable for any escape, or
otser neglect or violation of duty. 
80 
SEC. 8. Upon every such execution shall be endorsed a statement,
signed by the attorney issuing the same, setting forth that the defen­
dant therein named, has been surrendered to the custody oftbe sheriff"
to whom such execution is directed. 
SEC. 9. Whenever a bail bond shall be taken on the arrest of a de­
fendant, the bail therein may surrender their principal, or he may 
surrender himself, in exoneration of his bail, in the same manner,
except as herein after modified, before the same officers, and with the 
like effect as herein before provided, with respect to special bail. 
~ SO. To effect such surrender, two copies of such bond, proved 
by the affidavit of the sheriff to whom the same was giYen, or of a
subscribing witness thereto, to be true copies, shall be produced, in­ 
stead of certified copies of a bail piece ; and an order of commitment
shall be made on one of such copies, and be delivered to the sheriff,
and the other of such copies shall be filed with the order for the dis­
charge of the bail, and with the other papers in such proceeding, with
the clerk of the court in which the action may be pending. 
SEC. 1. The plaintiff' in the action shall not be entitled to bring any 
suit on the recognizance of bail, until, 
1. An execution against the property of the defendant shall have
been issued to the sheriff of the county in which such defendant was
originally arrested, and the same shall have been returned by such 
sheriff unsatisfied, in whole or in part: and, 
2. An execution against the body of the defendant, having at least
fifteen days between the test and return day thereof, shall have been 
issued to the same sheriff, and by him returned, that the defendant
could not be found within his county. 
81 
SEC. 2. Upon any such execution being issued and delivered to the 
sheriff, it shall be his duty to use all reasonable endeavors to execute 
the same, notwithstanding any directions he may receive from the 
plaintiff, or his attorney. 
81 
~ SS. In such action against bail, they may plead that executions
against the property and against the body of the defendant in the ori­ 
ginal suit, were not issued as herein directed; or that they were not 
imued in sufficient time to enable the sheriff to execute the same
or that directions were given _by the plaintiff or his attorney to pre-~ 
vent the service of the said writs, or either of them; or that any 
otlaer fraudulent or collusive means were used to prevent such see- 
vice ; and if any such defence be established, it shall entitle the bail 
to a verdict. 
SEC. 4. When the defendant in a suit shall die after the retum of the 
execution against his body, and before the expiration of eight .days
&om the return of the process served on his bail, the court shall re-
lieve such bail, on the same terms as if they had surrendered their
principal at the time of his death. · 
SEC. 5. In all cues in which proceedings shall be had against bail, 
by acirefacitu, it shall be necessary to serve such writ personally 
upon the defendant, and to have the same duly returned that it baa
been so served ; and no further proceedings shall be had, until such 
writ shall be so returned. 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
Of c0fl8olidating and refemng Causes. 
SEC. 8. Certain ea111e1 in aame court, may be eon10lidated. 
•· When one in 111pnme oout, IUld othen in diff'erent oouru. 
SEC. 8. Wiien plaiutiJI' may couolidate HTenl suit,.
SEC. 9. Cuea in which court may refer eauaea. 
,tO. Proceedingl for the appointment of referee•. 
SEC. 1. When cireuit jadge may order reference.
SEC. 1. Refereu to proceed and hear clilpute.
0. Appointment of time and place of hearing; adjourament,. 
SEC. 4. Oath ol refereea; bJ' whom to be admiaistered.
SEC. 5. Attendance of witnea1e1, how compelled • 
.ee. Powen of'referee1; all to meet; who may report. 
C. :Report,, &c. ol refene1, may be compelled. 
SEC. 8. Entrie. on record ; j11dgment on report.
SEC. 9. Actiou of aceomit when to be referred.
liO. Power1 md datiu of reCenee thereon. 
SEC. 1. To notify partiee; and report account.
SEC. 1. ProceediDgl agawt party refuaing to accomat, b.
SEC. 8. Jadplent on report ol relerees. 
SEC. 6. Whenever several suits shall be pending in the same court, 
by the same plaintiff" against the same defendant, for causes of action
which may be joined, the court in which the same shall be prosecuted 
may, in its discretion, if it shall appear expedient, order the several
suits to be consolidated into one action. 
82 
SEC. 7. If one or more of such suits be pending in the supreme court,
and otb
be
di 
· 1.L th
ers pen ng m any otner court, e supreme court may or- 
der the suits in other courts, t.o be consolidated with that in the su­
preme court. ea 
SEC. 8. When several suits shall be commenced against joint and 88V- 
eral debtors, in the same court, the plaintiff may, in any stage of the
proceedings consolidate them into one action. ea 
SEC. 9. Whenever a cause shall be at issue in any court of record, 
and it shall appear that the trial of the same will require the e:umi­
nation of a long account, on either side, such court may, on the appli­ 
·cation of either party, or without such application, order such cause 
to be referred to three impartial and competent persons. 8' 
SEC. 0. If the parties agree on three persons as referees, such persona
shall be appointed by the court ; if they disagree, each party shall be 
entitled to name one, and the court shall appoint the persons so nomi­
nated, if they are free from all exceptions, and such other person u 
the court shall designate. 
84 
SEC. 1. When a cause shall be noticed for trial at any circuit court, 
and it shall appear that the trial of the same will require the examina-
tion of a long account, on either side, the judge holding such court, 
may, by rule, order such cause to be referred, with the like effect as
if made by the supreme oourt. 
SEC. 2. The referees appointed pursuant to the foregoing provisions,
h d d · th · 
shall proceed with diligence to ear an etermme e matters m con-
troversy. 
SEC. 3. They shall appoint a time and place for the hearing, and shall 
adjourn the same from time to time as may be necessary : and OB the 
application of either party, and for good cause, they may postpone such
hearing to a time not extending beyond the next term of the court in 
which the suit is pending. 
SEC. 4. Before proceeding to hear any testimony in the cause, the 
referees shall be severally sworn faithfully and fairly to hear and ex-
amine the cause, and to make a just and true report according to the 
best of their understanding, which oath may be administered by any 
person authorised to take affidavits to be read in the court in which 
the suit is pending, or by any justice of the peace. 
86 
SEC. 5. Witnesses may be compelled to appear before such referee's,
by subpoenas issuing out of the court in which the cause is pending, 
in the same manner, and with the like effect, as in cases of trials in
such court. 
86 
SEC. 6. Any one of the referees may administer the necessary oath 
to the witnesses produced before them for examination. All the re­ 
ferees must meet together and hear all the proofs and allegations of the 
parties, but a report by any two of them shall be valid. · 
SEC. 7. The referees may be compelled, by the order of the court in
h • the f d to 
whic the cause is pending, to proceed to the hearing reo , an
make report of the amount they find due to either party; and the court 
may require them to report their decision in admitting or rejecting any 
witness, in allowing or overruling any question to a witness or the an- 
swer thereto, and all other proceedings by them, together with the
testimony before them, and theit reasons &>r allowing or disallowing 
8111 claim of either perty. 
SEC. 8. An entry of such reference shall be made' 'ftp~ the record,
and day shall be given to the parties from time to time, uritil the re-
ferees report, or they be thereof discharged. If the report of the refe- 
rees be confirmed by the court, judgment shall be entered thereon, m
the same manner, and with the like effect, as upon the verdict of a 
jury.N 
SEC. 9. When any action of account shall be brought by one or more
tn 
" th b • • •
par ers agamst ano er partner, or y any joint tenant, or tenant m 
common, or against any guardian, bailiff, receiver or otherwise, and
judgment shall be rendered that the parties account, or that the de- 
fendant account to the plaintiff, the cause shall be referred to referees 
in the same manner, and subject to the same "provisions, as herein pre- 
scribed in the case of a long account. 8'7 
SEC. 0. Such referees shall proceed in the manner required by law
SEC. 1. d b' h 
m o r cases o reierence, wit t fi 1,1.A.e powers, an su 9ect to t e
same provisiOM ia all respects. And they shall have power to ex-
amine the parties on oath, to be administered by the referees, or ei- 
ther of them ; and to require the production of all books of accounts,
papers and documents, in the custody or arulet the control of either 
party.87 . 
SEC. 1. The referee$ shall notify the: party or patties required to ac-
count before them, of the time and place at which they will take such 
account; and shall take, audit, and settle such 11COOunt, and report
thereon to the court, 
87 
~ 5!. If any pa,ty shall neglect or refuse to account according to
th 
'udgme ( th h if •
e J nt o e court, pursuant to sue nob cation; or to pro- 
duce any boob, papers or documents, required by the referees ; the
~ shall report the same to the court, who shall proceed thereon 
against such party, for his disobedience, in the manner prescribed in 
the thirteenth Title of the eighth Chapter of this act ; and shall im- 
priloti sudi patty, until he submit to account, or produce such books,
papers and documents; or until he satisfy the plaintiff' his demand 
with costs. 8'I 
! 5S. lf the referees report a balance in favor of either party, and
such report be confirmed, judgment shall be rendered thereon as in 
other cases of reference ; and if they report that no balance is due ei-
ther party, judgment shall be rendered against the plaintiff, with the 
like eftect as upon a verdict. wt 
• 
Miscellaneous provisions of a general nature, ap­
plicable to proceedings in civil cases. 
TITLE 1.-0f the abatement of suits by death, marriage, or otherwise,
Rod of their revival. 
T1TLE 2.-0f the removal of causes before trial or judgment, from iofe·
rior courts. 
TITLE 3.-0f evidence. 
TrTLE 4.-0f the trial of issues of fact. 
TITLE 5.-0f amencliog pleadings and proceedings. 
TITLE S.-Of the powers and duties of sheriffs, coroners and other offi­ 
cers, in the arrest and imprisonment of persons in civil ac­ 
tions; in the return and execution of process ; and in cer­
tain other cases. 
Qi' THE ABATEMENT OF SUITS BY DEATH, MARRIAGE, OR OTHER­
WISE, AND OF THEIR REVIVAL. 
Ssc. l. Death of one of 1enral plaintiffs or defendant., not to abate suit.
2. Death of sole plaintiff' when not to abate suit.
8. Death of sole defendant, when not to abate auit.
4, J udgmcnt when either party dies after verdict on confeuion. 
o. Verdicts after death of defendant, absolutely void.
SEC. 7. Partition DOt to abate by death of partiea; proceediDp.
8. Proceedinga on marriage of female plaintiff after verdict, &c. 
9 . .Aho, on marriage after finAl judgment and before execution.
SEC. 0. Order of judge necusary. 
SEC. 1. Upon what proof and notice order to be granted.
SEC. 2. Proceedinga on marriage while an action is pending.
SEC. 8. Aho, on marriage of female defendant before yerdict, &c. 
SEC. 4. Death or remonl of public officer, trustee, &c. not to abate suit. 
SEC. 1. If in any action there be two or more plaintiffs, and
one or more of them shall die before verdict is rendered, or interlocu­
tory or other judgment obtained; or between the time of verdict being
rendered and judgment thereon; the action shall not be thereby abat­
ed, if the cause of such action survive to the surviving plaintiff' or
plaintiffs ; and where there are two or more defendants in any action,
and one or more of them shall die before final judgment, such action
shall not be thereby abated ; but in either of the said cases, such Jeath
shall be suggested on the record, and the action shall proceed at the
suit of the surviving plaintiff, or against the surviving defendant, as 
the case may require.1 
OHA.P. VII. 
TITLE I. 
SEC. 2. Woore there is but one plaintiff in an action, if he shall die
after interlocutory judgment, ancl before a · final judgment obtained 
thereon, such action shall not abate by reason thereof, if it might be 
originally prosecuted by the executors or administrators of such plain- 
tiff; and such executors or administrators may have a scire facias 
against the defendant, to show cause why the damages in such action
should not be assessed and recovered." 
Si S. In actions where there is but one defendant, if he shall die
after interlocutory judgment, and before a final judgment obtained 
thereon, such action shall not abate by reason of such death, if it might 
be originally brought against the executors of such defendant ; but
the plaintiff may have a scire facias against the executors or admi­
nistrators of such defendant, to show cause why the damages in such
action should not be assessed and recovered, am:l the judgment there-
in shall be against such executors or administrators," 
SEC. 4. After a verdict shall be rendered in any action, and after a
l 
L'. • • • b h if . h di bef . d
p ea o contession m a suit roug t, 1 eit er party 1e tore JU g- 
f 
ment be actually entered thereon, the court may, within two terms
after such verdict or plea, enter final judgment in the names of the
original parties. 
3 
SEC. 5. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to authorise the
entry of a judgment against any party who shall have died before a
verdict actually rendered against him, notwithstanding he may have 
died on the first or any other day of the term or sitting of the court at 
which such verdict shall have been taken; but such verdict shall be
absolutely void. 
SEC. 6. Proceedings for the partition of lands shall not be abated by
the death of one or more plaintiffs, or of one or more defendants. If 
one of several plaintiffs dies, the proceedings shall be continued in
the name of the survivors, if the interest in the lands survive to them. 
If the interest of such deceased plaintiff in such lands, pass to other
persons, they may be made defendants, by rule of court, and the same 
proceedings may be had against them as would be necessary to make
them defendants originally. 
SEC. 7. If one or more defendants in partition die, and the interest of
such deceased person shall survive to the remaining defendants, the 
proceedings shall be continued against them. If such interest shall
pass to otherpersons, they may be made defendants in the same man­
ner as in the commencement 'of such proceedings. 
SEC. 8. If a female plaintiff in any action marry after verdict render-
ed, or after interlocutory judgment, and before final judgment, a sug- 
gestion of the fact of such marriage may be entered on the record,
and the final judgment shall be rendered in her name and that of her 
husband.
SEC. 9. If a female plaintiff marry after final judgment, but before exe- 
cution issued, a like suggestion of the fact shall be entered on the re. 
cord, and an award of execution shall be made in her name and tJ;aat
of her husband. 
SEC. 0. In the case, mentioned in the two last sectiom, an order of
a judge of the court in which such action shall be pending, shall be
necessary to enter the auggestions and award execution as therein pro­ 
vided. 
SEC. 1. Such order shall be granted upon the application of the h¥- 
band of such female plaintiff, on due proof of the marriage, and .after 
reasonable notice to the defendant aad to the female plaintitf to show
cause against granting the same. 
SEC. 2. If a female .plaintiff marry at any time while ber action is 
di h h band h' I' • be --·•- ,_:_ .. !4" 
pen mg, er US may, OD 18 app ieauon, IUao\JG a COi>MIWWJ 
with her on the order of a judge of the court in which the action is
pending, to be granted on due proof of the marriage, and after notice
to the female plaintiff and to the defendant ; and upon an entry there­ 
of being made on the record, such action shall proceed in the names 
of the husband and wife. 
SEC. 8. If a female defendant marry at any time before verdici'·ren- 
dered, or before interlocutory judgment, her husband may, on his own
application, or on the application of the plaintiff, be made a co-defend­ 
ant on the order of a judge of the court ; but if such husband. be made
a defendant on the application of the plaintiff, he shall have the same
right to contest the fact of his marriage, as if the suit had been origin­
ally brought against him as husband of such female defendant. 
SEC. 4. When an action is authorised or directed, by law, to be
b b b . b f bl' ffi b . 
roug t ff Or lll t e name O a pu IC O cer, or y any trustee appomt-
ed by virtue of any statute, his death or removal shall not abate the
suit, but the same may be continued by hie successor, who shall be
substituted for that purpose by the court, and a suggestion of such sub­
stitution shall be entered on the record. 
!!!!!!! 
TITLE II. 
OF THE REMOVAL OF CAUSES BEFORE TRIAL OR JUDGMENT, FROM
lNi'ERIOR COURTS. 
Sec. I. What caa•u maybe removed from COIDIDOll pleu, &c.
2. What from the common pleas of New-York.
8. What to be deemed amount claimed, on certain boncb.
A. Certain actiona may be removed of course.
5. Certiorari by wb:lt officen to be allowed.
SEC. 8. AflidaTit to be made; who to apply for certiorari.
7. In what stage of caaae certionri to be filed. 
8, When to be filed where an i11ue of fact bas been joined.
9. Filing to be of no force until notice given. 
SEC. 0. Clerk to make return to certiorari.
SEC. 1. Return how compelled; proceedings in supreme court.
SEC. 2. Liability o{ bail gi-ren in court below.
SEC. 1. Evidence taken before removal, to be 1lled in court above.
U. Civil actions not to be removed, except by certiorari. 
SEC. 6. Certain proceedings not to be removed before final judgment. 
SEC. 1. All persoeal actions which may be pending in any court of
common pleas, except in the city and county of New .. York, or ia any 
mayor's court; where the debt or damages claimed, or the matter or 
thing in demand, shall exeeed the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars, 
may be removed into the supreme court, by a writ .of certiorari, at 
the instance of the defendants in such actions.' 
. , . 
~ 2 All sueh actions which may be pending in the court of com- 
mon pleas of the city and county of New-York, in which t.he debt or
damages claimed, or the matter or thing in demand, shall exceed the 
sum of five hundred dollars, may in like manner be remored into the
supreme court. 
6 
~ S. If sucll action be brought upon a bond or other instrument,
with a condition for the payment of money, the actual sum due, with
the interest thereon, shall be deemed to be the amount of the debt
claimed.4 
SEC. 4. The following actions may be removed by certiorllri, at the 
i!e!)ff' e( the defendants therein, whatever may be the amount of 
the debt or damages claimeit,"" or the value of the matter or thing in
demand, viz : 
1 •. Actions in which the. people of this state shall be interested : 
J. Actions by or against the corporation of any city :
•· Actions of ejectment, and all other actions in which the ti~e to 
real .estate shall come in question : 
4. Actions of replevin, and for false imprisonment.• 
SEC. 5. A certiorari to remove such actions shall be allowed by a 
• , 
jUltice of the supreme court, or by some circuit judge, or supreme
court commissioner, or other officer authorised to perform the duties 
of a justice Qf the s•Jpreme court in vacation. 
SEC. 6. No such allowance shall be made, without an affidavit speci-
~ ' th and th • , 
-1ymg e nature amount of e plaintiff's demand or .cause of ac- 
tion; nor unless application therefor be made by all the defendants,
who shall have appeared in the action, if there be more than one. 
SEC. 7. Such writ shall not be effectual to remove any cause, unless
. be • 
it filed m the office of the clerk of the court in which such ac-
tio~ is pending, after the defendants shall have duly appeared in such 
acttoo, by entering and perfecting special bail therein, if such bail
shall have been required, nor unless the same be so filed before inter- 
locutory or other judgment entered in such action, and before any of~~
the jury summoned to try any issue joined therein, shall have been 
~~ 
SEC. 8. If such writ shall be allowed in an action wherein an issue of
fact has been joined, it shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the 
court at least eight days before the first day of the term at which 
~ 
such issue of fact might be tried, according to the practice of the 
and if the same be not filed within that time, such writ shall
not be effectual to remove such cause, unless the defendant shall pay 
to the plaintiff, all costs incurred by him in noticing such cause for
trial, if the same shall have been noticed; which costs shall be taxed 
by the court in which the action is pending. 
9. Upon a certiorari being filed, notice thereof shall be immedi-
ately given to the adverse party ; and until such notice be given, such
filing shall be ofno force or validity. 
SEC. 0. The clerk of the court to which any such certiorari shall 
be directed, shall return the same, and annex thereto a copy of all
the pleadings and proceedings in such action, and shall be entitled to
demand and receive his fees for such copies and for filing such writ. 
SEC. 1. Such return may be compelled by the supreme court, and 
upon the same being made, the like proceedings shall be had in such
cause as if the same had been commenced in the supreme court. If 
it be removed before a declaration filed, the plaintiff shall declare,
and the defendant shall plead thereto ; if it be removed after a de­
claration filed, and before any plea, the defendant shall plead within
the same time in which he was required to plead in the court from 
which the cause was removed, unless such time be enlarged by the 
supreme court, or a justice thereof; if the defendant's default shall 
have been entered, the plaintiff shall be entitled to interlocutory judg­
ment, and to have his damages assessed, unless such default be set 
aside by the supreme court; and all the said proceedings shall be had
in the same manner as if such cause bad been originally commenced
in the supreme court. 
SEC. 2. The bail given in such action, shall be responsible, and may
be relieved, exonerated and discharged, in the same manner, and in 
the same cases, as if such action had been commenced ~n the supreme
court. 
SEC. 3. Evidence taken by virtue of any commission, or condition-
ally, in any cause, before the removal thereof, shall be used on the 
trial of such cause in any circuit court, or in the supreme court, in
the same manner and with the like effect, as the same might have
been used in the court from which such cause shall be removed. 
SEC. 4. No civil action in any court of common pleas, or mayor's
court, shall be removed before judgment, by any writ of habeaa cor- 
pus, or by any other writ, or in any other manner, than as herein 
prescribed. 
SEC. 5. No writ of cerlim·ari, habeas corpus, or other writ or pro- 
di h 11 • be 11 d • th t, 
cee mg, s a issue or a owe ' to remove mto e supreme cour 
edi bet:'. • • f h f 
any proce mg tore any justice o t e peace, or any court o gene-
ral sessions of the peace, in relation to apprentices or servants, or in 
relation to bastards, or in relation to any other matter or cause, which 
may be brought before such court of general sessions by appeal from
a justice or justices of the peace, until after a final determination 
thereon by such court, 
AaT. J .-Of taking, conditionally, the testimony of witnesses within this state.
AB.T. 2.--0ftaking the testimony of witnesses out of this state.
A&T. 3.-0f affidavits taken, and other judicial proceedings had in other 1tate1 and 
foreign countries. 
Aa'I'. 4.-0f depositions taken in this state, to be used in courts of other states and
countries. 
Aa.T. 5.-0fproceedings to perpetuate testimouy. 
Aa.T. 6.-0f witoesaes, their privileges, and compelling their attendance. 
ART. 7.--0f documentary evidence, and the preservation thereof.
AR.1'. S.-Of the examination of witnesses, of certain I ules of evidence, a.nd of evideuce 
in certain cases. 
8 
SEC. 6. No certiorari, habeas corpus, or other writ or proceeding,
aball issue or be allowed, to remove into the supreme court, any 
cause or matter which may be brought before a court of common 
pleas, or before the county judges of a county, by appeal from a ju­ 
tice or justices of the peace, or by appeal from commissioners of high­
ways, or from any other officers, until after a final determination
thereon by such court, or by such judges. 
TITLE ID. 
OF EVIDENCE. 
A.aT. 9.--0!the administration ofoaths and affirmation,. 
ARTICLE FDIST. 
Of toking, conditionally, the Testimony of Witnesses within
this State . 
. Ssc. J. Stage of the came in which depoeition.a may be taken.
2. Affidarit to be made; ita contenta.
S. Order for examination, when to be granted. 
4. For what canse1 application to be dismissed.
Ii. Depo1ition when to be taken; what to be inserted.
6. To be aigned, &c. and when to be filed with clerk. 
7. In what cue, depo1ition may be read in evidence.
8. How it may be prennted Crom being react. 
9. F.Jl'ect of depo1ition; objection, to witneu, &c.
SEC. 0. Attendance of witneu how compelled. 
SEC. 1. Whenever any action pending in any court of law, being a
court of record, shall have been commenced by the actual service oc:;t:;:,·:~
process, or where the defendant shall have appeared in the action,
either party may have the testimony of any witness taken condition-
ally, to be used in the cases and under the circumstances herein after
prescribed. 
SEC. 1. The party desiring the examination of a wit.ne88, may apply
to any judge of the court, upon an affidavit which shall state, 
1. The nature of the action and the plamtitf's demand : 
2. If the application be made by the defendant, the natl1r6' oC his
defence: 
a. The name and residence of the witness :.
,. That the testimony of such witaess is material, and necemry 
for t.b& party making such application, in the prmecution or defence
of such suit, as the case may be : and, 
6. That such witness is about to depart from this state, or that he
is so sick or infirm, as to afford reasonable grounds i>r apprehemiclt
that he will not be able to attend the trial of such suit. 
SEC. 8. If the officer to whom such application is made, shall be satis-
circumstances 'ef the case require the examination of 
such witness, in order to attain justice between the parties, he shall
make an order requiring the adverse party to appear before such offi.
cer, and attend the examination of such witness, at such time and
place as shall be therein specified ; which time shall not exceed
twenty days from the date of such order, and shall be as much short­
er as the exigency of the case may require, and the residence of the
adverse party, or his attorney, will allow, in order to afford sufficient
opportunity to attend such examination. 
SEC. 4. The adverse party may show cause against proceeding in
h ' · b f h h · · ho d art 
sue examinanoa, y proo t at sue witness is not a ut to ep
from this state, or that he is not sick or infirm, or that the application
for his examination is made collusively, to avoid his being examined
on the trial of the cause ; and upon any such cause being shown, the
officer shall dismiss such application. 
SEC. 5. If no sufficient cause be shown, upon due proof of the service
of such order, and a copy of the affidavit upon which the same was 
granted, the officer granting the same shall proceed to the examina­
tion of such witness, and shall take his deposition ; in which depo­
sition shall be inserted any answer or declaration of such witne~,
which either of the parties shall require to be included therein. 
SEC. 6. Such deposition shall be carefully read to and subscribed by
such witness, shall be certified by the officer taking the same, and 
within ten days thereafter, shall be filed in the office of the clerk of
the court in which such action shall be depending. ' 
SEC. 7. Such deposition, or a certified copy thereof, may be given iD 
evidence by either party, on the trial of the cause, or upon the .se.as­ 
ment of damages therein by the clerk, or by virtue of any writ of ia-.
quiry of damages, after it shall have been satisfactorily J>roved, that
such witness is unable to attend such trial or assessment of damages
personally, by reason of his death, insanity, sickness or settled infirmi­
ty, or that he has continued absent out of this state, so that his at· 
tendance at such trial or essessment of damages could not be com- 
pelled by the ordinary process of law.
SEC. 8. But the party against whom such deposition is to be used, 
may prevent the reading thereof, by satisfactory proof that sufficient 
notice was not given him to enable him to attend the examination of 
auch witness, or that such examination was not In all respects fair, 
and conducted as herein prescribed.
SEC. 9. Such deposition shall have the same effect, and no other, as 
tbe oral testimony of the witness would have, if given on such trial 
or usessment, and every objection to the competency or credibility of 
such witness, and to the competency or relevancy of any question put 
to him, or of any answer given by him, may be made in the same 
IDIDDer as if such witness were personally examined on such trial or 
818e111Dent. 
SEC. 0. The officer granting such order, upon the application of the 
party desiring the examination of a witness, may compel the attend-;:T.891o 
ance of such witness, by issuing a summons for that purpose, and en- 
forcing the same in the manner prescribed in this Title. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
Of taking the. Testimony of Witnesses ou; of this State. 
he. 11, Commiuion when ud in what cues to be awarded, &c. 
SEC. 2. May be allowed in 1upreme court by a justice or circuit jadge. 
SEC. 8. Order when to be granted; wlaere to be filed.
l.&. batenogatorie1 by whom to be .ettled, on notice.
16, To be umesed to commiuion; directiou thereon.
SEC. 6. Commia1ioa how to be execut~; copy oC thi1 section to be annexed to it. 
SEC. 7. Betum when to be received from ageat and opened. 
SEC. 1. ProceediDgs in cue of death or sickness of agent.
SEC. 9. Commiuioa and return, when and where to be filed, 
». Duty of clerk, when nttum 1ent by mail.
SEC. 1. Parties may agree on mode of returning commission. 
SEC. 1. Betora, b. to remain on file; puties may inspect. 
a Depoaitiou mdence; objection, to witnesses, &c .. 
2'. c.uniniom to iNUc af'ter interlocutory judgment; 
SEC. 1. Whenever an issue of fact shall have been joined in any ac-
tion in a court of law, being a court of record, and it shall appear on=~ 
the application of either party, that any witness not residing within
thi, state, is material in the prosecution or defence of such action, the 
court may, u such terms as it shall think ro r award a commis- 
sion to one or more competent persons, aut orising them, or any one 
of them, to examine such witness on oath, upon the interrogatories an· 
oexed to such commission ; to take and certify the depositions of such
witness; an'd turn the same according to the directions given 
with such co ssion. •
SEC. 2. If su tion be pending in the supreme court, any justice 
of tlw.t court, or y circuit judge, may, In vacation of the said court,
grant an order tha such commission issue, upon proof that due no. 
tice of application for such order has been served on the advene party,
at least ten days before the time of making such application. But the
power herein conferred shall not be exercised by any recorder of a 
city, or supreme court commisssioner, or judge or' any county court& 
I ts. Such order shall be filed in the office of the clert or the 
court, and shall be granted only in the like cases, and upon t~ l!lltlDe 
terms, that the supreme court would award such commisaibn; and 
shall be subject to the control of the court in all respects. 
SEC. 4. The interrogatories to be annexed to such commission, shall
be settled by a judge of the court in vacation, or if tbe action be in 
the supreme court, by a justice thereof, a circuit judge, or any su­ 
preme court commissioner, or other officer authorised to perform tfie 
duties of such commissioner, upon such notice as shall be established
by the practice of the court. 
SEC. 5. In settling such interrogatories, either party shall be allow­ 
ed to insert any question pertinent to the cause, which he shall pro­ 
pose. The officer settling the same, shall endorse his allowance
thereof, and annex them to the commission. Upon the commission 
he shall direct the manner in which it shall be returned, and may, in 
his discretion, direct the same to be returned by mail, addressed to
the clerk of the court out of which it shall issue ; or if issued out of
the supreme court, addressed to the clerk of the county in which the 
venue in such action shall be laid, designating the name of such clerk,
and his residence.'? 
SEC. 6. The persons to whom such commission shall be directed, or 
any one of them, unless otherwise expressly directed therein, shall 
execute the same as follows : 
1. They or any one of them shall publicly administer an oath to 
the witnesses named in the commission, that the answers gi\"811 by 
auch witnesses to the interrogatories proposed to them, shall be the 
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth : 
s, They shall cause the examination of each witness to be reduced 
to writing, and to be subscribed by him and certified by such of the 
commissioners as are present at the taking of the same : 
a. If any exhibits are produced and proved before them, they shall
be annexed to the depositions to which they relate, and shall in like 
inanner be subscribed by the witness proving the same, and shall be
certified by the commissioners : 
4. The commisssioners shall subscribe their names to each sheet of
the depositions taken by them; they shall annex all-the depositions 
and exhibits to the commission, upon which their return shall be en-
dorsed ; and they shall close them up under their seals, and shall ad­ 
dress the same when so closed, to the clerk of the court from which the 
commission issued, or ·to the clerk of the county in which the venue 
aWI be laid, as shall· have been directed on the .commission, at his
pJace of residence: 
6. If there is a direction on the commission to return the same by 
mail, .the1 shall immediately deposit the packet so directed in the 
neareat ,post-office : 
fl" If there be a direction on the commission to return the same by 
an agent of the party who sued out the. same, the packet so directed 
aball be delivered to such agent. · 
A CQPY of this section shall be annexed to every commission au­ 
thorised hy this Article.!' 
SEC. 7. If 8UCh packet be delivered to an agent, he shall deliver the 
llalDe to the clerk to whom it shall be directed, or to one of the judge. 
of the court in which theaction is pending, who shall receive and open 
the·~, upon such agent making affidavit that he received the same 
fro~ ithe hands of one of the commissioners, and that it has not been 
~ed or altered since he so received it.12 
! 18.. If such agent be dead, or from sickness or other casualty, 
unaMe -to deliver such .packet personally, as in the last section direct-~
ed, the same may be .received by the clerk or judge from the hands oC 
any other person, upon such person making affidavit that he received 
the same from such agent, that such agent is dead or otherwise unable 
te deliYer the 18Dle, that it has not been opened or altered since such
person received it, and tlll he believes the same has not been opened
or altered since it came from t.be hands of the commissioners.12 
SEC. 9. The clerk or judge receiving and opening such commission 
and return, shall immediately file the same in the office of the clerk::=~ 
of the court from which it issued, or if the action be pending in the
supreme court, in the office of the clerk of the county in which .the
venue .in the action is laid. 
13 
SEC. 0. If the packet containing such commission and retum be tran&- 
mitted by mail, the clerk to whom the same shall be addressed, shall
recei-.e the same from the post-office, and open and file it in hie of:. 
fice. 
SEC. 1. The parties, or their attornies, may in writing agree on the 
• hi h • • I". h . . f .
manner in w re a commission ior t e examination o witnesses may 
be returned; and on filing such agreement with the clerk of the
court, the attorney for the party suing out the same, may endorse
thereon a direction according to such agreement; and such commis- 
sion shall be retumed accordingly.14 
SEC. 2. The commission, returns, depositions and exhibits thereto
annexed, shall remain on file in the office of the clerk to whom the
same were addressed, unless the court by a special order shall direct
them to be filed in the office of some other clerk. They shall at all 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----· 
times be open to the inspection of the parties, who shall be entitled to 
copies of such parts thereof as they may require, on payment of the 
fees allowed by law. 
SEC. 3. The examinations and depositions taken under a commission
issued, executed and returned, as herein directed, or an exemplifica­ 
tion thereof when the originals are filed in any other county than 
that in which the cause shall be tried, may · be offered and used in
evidence on the trial of the cause, by either party ; and every objec­ 
tion to the competency or credibility of a witness so examined, or to 
the competency or relevancy of any question put to him, or of any 
answer given by him, may be made in the same manner, and with
the like effect, as if such witness were personally examined at IUCb 
trial.15 
SEC. 4. If an interlocutory judgment shall have been obtained in ~y 
• ' • be arded the l' · f the l ' 
achoo, a commrssion may aw on app tcatton o p am-
tiff, in the like cases, and in the same manner, as if an issue of fact 
had been joined; and the depositions taken thereon may be used in
evidence on any proceeding to assess the plaintiff's damages, with
the like effect as herein provided in case of trial, 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
Of .Affidatnta taken, and other Judicial PJ~eedinga had in otl,e,- 
8tatu and Forrign Collliu. 
SEC. 5. Affldmta in other states, bo,r authenticated. 
ai. Record, and proceedings of courts in foreign countries. 
'ZT. When copies of such record, may be read in evidence. 
SEC. 8. Comtraction of, preceding 1ection1 of this Article. 
SEC. 5. In cases where by law the affidavit of any person residing 
in another state of the United States, or in any foreign country, is 
required, or may be received in judicial proceedings in this state, to 
entitle the same to be read, it must be authenticated as follows : 
1. It must be certified by some judge of a court having a seal, to 
have been subscribed and taken before him, specifying the time and 
place where taken : 
2. The genuineness of the signature of such judge, the existence 
of the court, and the fact that such judge is a member thereof, must 
be certified by the clerk of the court, under the seal thereof. 
SEC. 6. The records and judicial proceedings of any court in a for· 
reign country, shall be admitted in evidence in the courts of this state,
upon being authenticated as follows : 
1. By the attestation of the clerk of such court, with the seal of
such court annexed, or of the officer in whose custody such records
are legally kept, with the seal of his office annexed : 
2. By a certificate of the chief justice or presiding magistrate of 
such court, that the person attesting such record is the clerk of the 
court, or that he is the officer in whose custody such record is requir-
ed by law to be kept ; and in either case, that the signature of such,~ 
person is genuine : and, 
3. By the certificate of the secretary of state, or other officer or
the government under whose authority such court is held, having the
custody of the great or principal seal of such government, purporting
that such court is duly constituted, specifying generally the nature or
its jurisdiction, and verifying the signature of the clerk or other offi­
cer having the custody of such record, and also verifying the signa­
ture of the chief justice or presiding magistrate. 
SEC. 7. Copies of such records and proceedings, in the courts of • 
i>reign country, may also be admitted in evidence, upon due proof, 
1. That the copy offered has been compared by the witness with
the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of such original 
2. That such original was in the custody of the clerk of the court,.
or other officer legally having charge of the same: and, 
3. That such copy is duly attested by a seal, which shall be prov­ 
ed to be the seal of the court in which such record or proceeding shalt
be. 
SEC. 8. The preceding sections shall not prevent the proof of arr,- 
rd
. di . l di f th f &'. • 
reco or JU era procee mg o e courts, o any toreign country, ae- 
cording to the rules of !Ile common law, in any other manner than. 
that herein directed, nt91fiall they be construed as declaring the ef:.: 
feet of any record or judicial proceeding, authenticated as therein pre­
scribed. 
[It may be useful to state, that by the act o( CongreH o( the 26th oC May, 1790, (Law• 
SEC. 2. P: 1"2,) the records and judicial 1;1roceeding, ofthe- 
COIUtl of uy 1tate in the United States, are prond or entitled to be admiUed in the eoarh 
• any other 1tate, upon being authenticated by the attestation of the clerk ad tile seal of 
tbe eourt IIDDeited u there be a seal, t•ther with a certificate of the Jud~, chief ~ce 
ot preaiding magiatnte, aa the cue may be, that the said attestation is in due form. Suell
~· and judicial proceedings, authenticated as aforesaid, have the same faith and eredit 
pea to them in every court of the state where they may be off'ered, u they ban by law or 
1lllge ia the courtl of the 1tate Crom which 1ueh recordat are taken.] 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
Of Deporitions taken ·in this State, to be used in Court, of otlalr
Stoles and OO'Untriea. 
SEC. 9. Partie1 in 1uit1 in other states, may obtain te1funony here. 
SEC. 0. &mm.om to witllea1 to be examined, when to Issue, ltc.
SEC. 1. Contentl ofau.mmom; place oCattendance. 
SEC. 2. Proof required for 1um.mou, when no commisaioner. 
SEC. 9. Any party to a suit depending in any court of any other 
ltate of the United States, may obtain the testimony of any witne•
residing in this state, to be used in such suit. 
SEC. 0. If a commission to take such testimony shall have issued
from the court in which such suit is pending, on producing the same 
to a justice of the supreme court, circuit judge, supreme court com­
missioner, or any judge of the county courts of any county, and on 
lhw ,roof~ -.de to evieh officer that the teetimeiny fll •Y wit- 
resiflillg in &hil ct.-, is material to .the party deairiag the uie, 
such officer sh~ll issue a eummons to such witaess, ~iring him·~ 
ap).JlBIU" ,before the cQ8)1Qiuioners oaaed in IQch eommiwieia, to teltify
Hl .S"-00 8Mit.1C1 
SEC. 1. Such summons ·•hall spedify the time and place .at which 
sucft witneaa is required to attend; the place lhall Ile within the
countf in which such Wftnela '8&icles, or wi&hi11 forty m.ilea of his re­
sidence, if ollt C'A his county. 
SEC. 2. If a suit be pending. in any court of any other state of the
United ·States, and it ahall satisfaeterily ,appear by afficlnit to .any .of.
fleer named in the preceding thirtieth seetien, 
t. That any person residing in this Btate is .a material witneu for 
either -party· tlO such suit: 
,t. That •no comDMSsion to take the testimony of -auch wialess llu
been issued : and, 
8. That according tothe course and practice of the-court ill whicll
neh suit is pending, the deposition C'A a witness taken witheut the 
presence or consent of both parties, will be received on the trial « 
heari11g pf tuch suit : ,
Sud) 9fficer .shall issue his~mons.r requiring sucb witnell to.ap-, 
pear. befor3 .him :$t a place w1fum the COUI1'.f in Which ~Udi witneli5
residQS, at IQ~ reasonahle time, to tesufy •uch suit. 
ABTICLE FIPTB. 
Of Proceedings to perpetuate Tutimony. 
SEC. 8. Cuu in which testimony may be taken.
M. Proof......,.. to obtain ordu touamiDe witaeu. 
SEC. 1. . _.-: 
SEC. 6. When officer to proceed to take teltimony.
SEC. 7. How to be taken; when and where to be filed with otlaet" ,-pen. 
88, Origiaal aftidaviu, &c. how far evidence. 
SEC. 9. Cue, in which depoatiou may be eridenoe.
SEC. 0. Eft"ect thereof; objeetiou to witne11, qlleltion1, Ac. 
SEC. 1. 
J SS. Anv person who is a party to a suit pending in any oodrt of 
• " • 
this state, or who expects to be a party in any suit about to be com- 
menced, may cause the testimony of any witness material to him in
the prosecution or defence of such suit, to be taken condi-tionally, and 
to be perpetuated.t? 
SEC. 4. Upon producing to any justice of the supreme court, .or to
ffi th . d r. th d . f h . . h -1...- 
any o cer au onse to penorm e uues o sue Justice at c auu--, 
or to the first judge of the county courts of any county, or to a muter
in chancery, due proof by affidavit, 
1. That the applicant is a party to a suit actually pending in some 
court of record in this state, or that such applicant has good reason to
expect. to be made a party to a suit in such court of record: and, 
ti.. 'nlifthe ~ny of any witness within this state, isimate,W
adi 118DM8arf to' the prosecutiGn or defence of sueh suit: and, 
1. H- 811Ch StJ.it. beaot actually commenced; tbat·the party e:xpeat- 
8'to be:adverse- to·tae applicaat, reside& within this state and is oC 
.U,age:
Suoh officer· shall- appoint a plaee within the-county where- auch 
witne.. resides, and a time not lee& than fourteea da1s from the date 
of sucli order, for the examinatios ofsuclt,witness.18 
SEC. 5. Upon the application· of the party desiring such examination;
IUOb officer shall issue - a - summons to the witneet delignated in:~ 
original affidavit, requiring him to appear and testif)t at tbe: time aml
place appointed. 
SEC. 6. After satisfactory evidence shall be given tosuch officer, that
the order directing such examination has been duly served on the
party to such suit, if one be pending; or on- the persons named in tlie
original affidavit as expected parties; if no: suit be·pending; at least
ten days before the time therein appointed· for· such examination, he 
ahall proceed on the day so appointed, and on such other days to which
the matter shall be from time to time adjourned; as ·may be-necessary, 
to take the deposition of such witnesst conditionally J8 
SEC. 7. The officer taking such deposition, shall' insert therein every
d
1 
' f h ' ' ed hi h · b 
answer or ec aratton o t e witness examm , w re eit er party
shall require to be inclu3ed therein. The deposition, when - complet- 
ed, shall be carefully read· to, and subscribed by; the witness; shall 
be certified by the officer taking the same; and within ten· days-~
after, shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the county in which
the same was taken, together with the original orderfer the.examina- 
tion of the witness, and the affidavits on which the same was founded,
and those proving the service of such order.P 
SEC. 8. The original affidavits filed with such deposition, ora certi- 
fied copy thereof, shall be presumptive evidence of the facts therein 
contained, to show a compliance with the provisions of this Article.
SEC. 9. In case a trial shall be had between the persons named in 
the original affidavit as parties, or named therein as expected parties,
or between any parties claiming under such persons or either of them; 
upon due proof of the death or insanity of the witness examined pur-
auant to the foregoing provisions, or of the inability of such witness to 
.«end such trial by reason of old age, sickness, or settled infirmity;
the deposition of such witness, or a certified copy thereof, may be giv- 
en in evidence by either party. 
11 
SEC. 0. The depositions so taken and read in evidence, shall have the
ffi d
th
h l 
. f h , Id
same e ect, an no o er, as t e ora testimony o t e witness wou 
have, if ginn on such trial; and every objection to the competency or 
credibility of such witness, or to the relevancy of any question put to 
him, or of any answer given by him, may be made in the same man­ 
ner as if such witness were personally examined on such trial • .2o 
SEC. 1. Any officer authorised to take the examination of a witnea
according to the provisions of this Article, to whom application may 
be made for that purpose, may order such examination to be had be­
fore any other officer to whom such application might have been ori­
ginally made, residing in the same county with the witness to be ex­
amined; and such officer shall proceed in the premises in the same 
manner, and with the like power, as if the order for examination had 
been made by him.21 
ARTICLE SIX'l·B. 
Of W'"llneuu, their Privileges, and compelling their Atte,sdance, 
8&c. C. Sabpamu ia1ued by court,, how to be served.
SEC. 8. Penalties on witne11e1 dJaobeying 1ubpc2na. 
4'. Mode al ,erring IIUDIDOM OD ,ritnu1u. 
SEC. 5. Penalty OD witneH for dit0beying summons.
SEC. 6. When warrant to apprehend witne11, to iasne.
ff. Witneel Pefiuiag to 1,re.r, &c. to be committed.
SEC. 8. Contenu oC commitmut.
SEC. 9. To whom to be directed, and how to be executed . 
.GO. Prec:eding 1eetion1 not to apply to certain cues . 
SEC. 1. Witnu1e11ubpamaed, exempt from arre.t.
U & A. Ofticen, &e. who may di1charge witneu arrested. 
6'. .&nest. TI>id; penaltiu for making.
U. Atidarit to be made, i( required; ita contentl and e.lfect. 
SEC. 2. The service of a subpoena issued out of any court, to compef
the attendance of any witness, shall be made as follows: 
1. The original writ under the seal of the court issuing the same, 
shall be exhibited to the witness: 
1. A copy of such writ, or a ticket containing its substance, shall be 
delivered to the witness: 
lt. The fees allowed by law to such witness for travelling to and 
returning from the place where he is required to attend, and the fees 
allowed for one day's attendance, shall be paid or tendered to such 
witnes"s.22 
~ 4S. Every person who shall be duly subpeenaed to attend as a
witness, any court within this state; or to attend any officer of any 
court of record empowered to receive evidence, or any commis.,ioner
appointed by such court to take testimony ; or any referees appointed
by such court to hear any cause or matter, shall be bound to attend, ac­
conling to the command of such subpeena; and for every failure so to 
attend, without a reasonable excuse, shall be deemed guilty of a con·
tempt of the court out of which such subpcena issued, shall be resPoJl·
sible in the proper action to the aggrieved party for the loss and hin­
drance sustained by such failure, and for ·all other damages sustained 
thereby ; and shall forfeit to the aggrieved party the sum of fifty dol-
Ian, in addition to such damages, to be recovered in a separate action, 
or in the same action commenced for the recovery of such damages. 
SEC. 4. In all cases where by the provisions of law any judge or oth- 
er officer, is authorised to summon any person to appear as a witness,
either before such judge or officer, to give testimony or to have his de- 
position taken, or before any persons named in any commission issued
by a court of any other state or country, to take testimony, such sum- 
mons shall be served by, 
1. Showing to the witness the original sumIDOD8, under the hand
of the judge or officer issuing the same : 
1. Delivering to such witne• a copy of the summons, or a ticket
maioing its substance : and, - 
a. Paying or tendering to such witness the fees allowed by law 
mr lravelling to and returning from die place where he is required to
attend, and the fee allowed for one day's attendance. 
SEC. 5. Every person who shall be duly summoned to attend before 
any judge or officer, or before any commissioner, as above provided,
shall be bound to attend according to such summons; and for every 
fiulure so to attend, without a reasonable excuse, shall be responsible to 
the aggrieved party fur the loaa and hindrance sustained by such fail-
ure, and Jor all other damages sustained thereby, and shall forfeit to 
such aggrieved party fifty dollars in addition to such damages.
SEC. 6. In case of the failure of any witness so to attend as above pro- 
,ided, the judge or officer issuing the summons, upon due proof of the
service ther~ and of the failure of such witness, shall issue his war- 
rant to the sheriff of the county to apprehend such witness and bring
him before such judge or officer to be examined, or to bring him be-
k>re any persons named in a commission issued by a court of any oth- 
er state or country to take testimony, for the like purpose. 
SEC. 7. If any witness attending before any judge, officer or com-
• • b h bet! the "th 
DD8SIODel'S, pursuant to a summons, or roug t sore m, or e1 er
of them, shall, without reasonable cause, refuse to be examined, or to 
a11&wer any legal and pertinent question, or to subscribe his deposition
after the same has been reduced to writing, the officer issuing such
summons shall, l>y warrant, commit such witness to the common jail 
of the county in which he resides, there to remain until he submits to
be examined, or to answer, or to subscribe his deposition, as the case 
may be, or until he be discharged according to law.:u
SEC. 8. Every warrant of commitment issued by any judge or officer, 
pursuant to the provisions of this Article, shall specify therein par-
ticularly the cause of such commitment ; and if such commitment be 
i>r refusing to answer any question, such question shall be stated in
the warrant. 
24 
• 
21 
SEC. 9. Every warrant to apprehend or commit any witness, au-
thoriaed by ~ Article, shall be directed to the sheriff. of . the county 
where such witness may be, and shall be executed by him in the same 
manner as process issued by courts of record. 
SEC. 0. The preceding sections of this Article shall not apply to 
b ' ed b ' • f the ' ned 
su pamas ISSU ,y Justices o peace, nor to witnesses summo 
to attend courts held by justices of the peace, nor to any other cue 
where special provision is made by law for compelling the attendaoce 
of witnesses. 
SEC. 1. Every person duly and in good faith subpamaed as a wit­ 
ness to attend any court, officer, commissioner or referee, or sum­
moned to attend any judge, officer or commissioner, in any case where
the attendance of such witness may by law be enforced by attach­ 
ment, or by commitment, shall be exonerated from arrest in any ci­ 
vil suit, while going to the place where he shall be required by such
subpoena to attend, while remaining at such place, and while return­ 
ing therefrom. 
SEC. 2. The court or officer before whom any person shall have been,
in good faith, subprenaed to attend as a witness, shall discharge such 
witness from any arrest made in violation of the last section ; and if 
such court shall have adjourned before such arrest was made, or be­ 
fore application for such discharge be made, any judge of such court
shall have the same power to discharge such witness. 
SEC. 8. Every officer authorised to perform the duties of supreme
court commissioner, and the first judges of county courts, shall~ve' 
the like authority to discharge any witness arrested contrary to the
foregoing provisions. 
SEC. 4. Every arrest of a witness made contrary to the foregoing
provisions, shall be absolutely void, and shall be deemed a contempt of 
the court issuing the subprena; and every person making such arrest, 
shall be responsible to the witness arrested for three times the amount 
of the damages which shall be found by the jury, and shall also be li­ 
able to an action at the suit of the party who subpoenaed such wit­
ness, for the loss, hindrance and damages sustained by him, in conse­ 
quence of such arrest. 
SEC. 5. But no sheriff or other officer or person shall be so liable, 
unless the person claiming an exemption from arrest, shall, if requir-
ed by such sheriff' or officer, make an affidavit, stating: • 
1. That he has been legally subpeenaed as a witness to attendbe­ 
fore some court or offices, specifying such court or officer, the place of 
attendance, and the cause in which he shall have been subpcenaed; 
and, 
2. That he has not been subpoenaed by his own procurement, with 
the intent of avoidjcg the service of any process : 
Which affidavit may be taken by such officer, and when so taken,
shall exonerate such officer from all liability for not making such ar-
rest. 
ARTICLE SEVENTH. 
Of Documentary Evidence, and the Pruervation thereof. 
SEC. 6. AJlidaTiu of publishing noticea, how made and filed.
SEC. 7. Aho of noticea of nle of real estate.
SEC. 8. Eff"ect of such affidavits, &c. u evidence.
SEC. 9. Copw of proceedings, record,, &c. how to be certified; 1eal of county clerlu. 
a>. Last lection not to apply to copie, of certain papers. 
SEC. 1. Seah of court,, &c. may be impre11ed OD paper.
SEC. 2. Printe aea.11 to be OD wafer, or wax, &c.
SEC. 3. Clerb, &c. to receive papers oft'ered for safe keeping.
SEC. 4. Papen, how to be endoned, filed and kept.
SEC. 5. Not to be delinred out, except in certain case,.
SEC. 6. But open to public e.xamination.
SEC. 7. Certain officers to reeeive wills, for nfe keeping.
SEC. 8. Will how to be eneloled and endorsed; nQt to be opened, Ac.
SEC. 1. To whom will to be delivered..
SEC. 0. Surrogate to open will on death of tutator, &c. 
SEC. 6. When notice of any application to any court orjudicial offl-
cer for any proceeding authorised by law, is required to be published 
in one or more newspapers, an affidavit of the printer of such news-
paper, or of bis foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a printed copy
of such notice taken from the paper in which it was published, and
specifying the times when, and the paper in which such netice was
published, may be filed with the proper officer of the court, or with 
lbe. judicial officer before whom' such proceeding shall be pending, at
any time within six months after the last day of the publication of such 
notice.
SEC. 7. When any notice of a sale of real property is required by 
law to be published in any newspaper, an affidavit of the printer orrea1
such paper, or of his foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a printed 
copy of such notice taken from the paper in which it was published,
and specifying the times when, and the paper in which such notice 
was published, may be filed at any time within six months after the
lut day of such publication, with the county clerk of the county in
which the premises sold are situated ; or if such sale were made in
pursuance of the order of any surrogate or court of equity, such affi-
davit may be filed with such surrogate, or with the clerk of such 
court, as the case may be.
SEC. 8. The original affidavits so filei pursuant to the two last sec- 
tions, and copies thereof duly certified by the officer in whose custody 
the same shall be, shall be presumptive evidence in all cases, and be-
fore every court, of the facts contained in such affidavit. · 
SEC. 9. Whenever a certified copy of any affidavit, record, docu-
ment, or other paper, is declared by law to be evidence, such copy
shall be certified by the clerk or officer in whose custody the same is 
required by law to be, to have been compared by him with the ori­
ginal, and to be a correct transcript therefrom, and of the whole of 
such original ; and if such officer have any official seal by law, 8Ucb
certificate shall be attested by such seal; and if such certificate be 
b h 1 k r . hi ffi . l h h
given y t e c er o any county, in is o eta c aracter as sue 
clerk, it shall be attested by the seal of the court of common pleas of
the county of which he is clerk. 
SEC. 0. But the last section shall not be construed lo require the af:.
fixing of the seal of any court to any certified copy of any rule or or- 
der made by such court, or of any paper filed therein, when such copy
used in the same court, or before any officer thereof; nor to require
the seal of the supreme court to be affixed to a certified copy of any
rule or order of that court, when used in any circuit court. 
SEC. 1. In all cases where a seal of any court, or of any public offi­
cer, shall be authorised or required by law, the same may be affixed 
by making an impression directly on the paper, which shall be as va-
lid as if made on a wafer or on wax. 
SEC. 2. But the last section shall not extend to private seals, which
shall be made as heretofore, on wafer, wax, or some similar substance, 
SEC. 3. The clerk of every county in this state, and the register of
id th "--· 
deeds in the city and county of New-York, upon being pa1 e .n:eo 
allowed therefor by law, shall receive and deposit in their offices re-
spectively, any deeds, conveyances, wills, or other papers or docu­ 
ments, which any person shall offer to them for that purpoee ; and 
shall give to such person a 'Written receipt therefor. 
SEC. 4. Such instruments, papers and documents, shall be properly
nd d • di th • ] d th f th 
orse , so as to m icate err genera nature an e names o e
parties thereto, shall be filed by the officer receiving the same, stating 
the time when received, and shall be deposited and kept by him and
his successors in office, with his official papers, in some place sepa·
rate and distinct from such papers. 
" 65 The instrumen•• papers and documents so received and de· 
iJJ • -, 
posited, shall not be withdrawn from Mlch office, except on the order
of some court of record, for the purpose of being read in evidence in
such court, and then to be returned to such office ; nor shall they be 
delivered without such order, to any person, unless upon the written
order of the person or persons who deposited the same, or the~ exe- 
cutors or administrators. ·
SEC. 6. Such instruments, papers and documents so deposited, shall 
be open to t1ae examination of any person desiring the same, upan
payment of the fees allowed by law. 
SEC. 7. The clerk of every county in this state, the register of deeds
in the city and county of New-York, and the surrogate of every co~·
ty, upon being paid the fees allowed therefor by law, shall receive 
and deposit in their offices respectively, any last will or testament
whi.c1! any person shall deliver to them for that purpose, and shall~
give a written receipt therefor to the person depositing the same. 
SEC. 8. Such will shall be enclosed in a sealed wrapper, so that the
contents thereof cannot be read, and shall have endorsed thereon the 
name of the testator, his place of residence, and the day, month and 
year when delivered ; and shall not, on any pretext whatever, be
opened, read or examined, until delivered to a person entitled to the
ame, as herein after directed. 
SEC. 9. Such will shall be delivered only,
r. To the testator in person : or, 
2. Upon bis written order, duly proved by the oath of a subscrib- 
ing witness : or, 
3. After his death, to the persons named in the endorsement on
~ wrapper of such will, if any such endorsement be made thereon : 
or, 
4. If there be no such endorsement, and if the same shall have
been deposited with any other officer than a surrogate, then to the 
surrogate of the county.
SEC. 0. If such will shall have been deposited with a 1urrogate, or;:~ 
ahall have been delivered to him as above prescribed, such surrogate,
-'ier the death of the testator, shall publicly open and examine the 
same, and make known the contents thereof, and shall file the aatne 
in his office, there to remain until it shall have been duly proved, if ca-
pable of proof, and then to be delivered to the person entitled to the 
custody thereof; or until required by the authority of some compe- 
tent court to produce the aame in BUCb court. 
ARTICLE :&IGBTR. 
Of tle E:mminalion of Witneues, of certain rules of Evidence, 
antl uf Evidence in certain cases. 
SEC. 1. Witne11 compelled to answer queatiou Rbjecting Jailll to ci~il Ritt.
SEC. 2. Ministera not to disclose confe11ion1.
SEC. 8. Pll,-ioiaae, Ac. •ot to diicloee certain iol,nmtien.
7,j. Proof reapecting lo.a of inatramenta.
SEC. 6. When recovery may be had on lost notea, &c.
SEC. 7. Sealt to inltrumenttl not to be eonclu,ive of conlideration.
SEC. 8. Defenee toactioM OD tllea to be pleaded or notiW,
SEC. 9. Certain ~istakes in pleading to be disregarded at trial,. 
SEC. 0. Confession, of members of corporation,, how far endenee. 
SEC. 1. When oorperaton to be witnes1e1 against their oorporatien. 
SEC. 1. luty competent witness in a cause, shall not be excused
from answering a question ntlevant to the matter in issue, on the 
ground merely that the answel' to such question may establish, or tend
to establish, that such witness owes a debt, or is otherwiso subject to 
a civil suit. But this provision shall not be construed to require a
witness to give any answer which will have a tendency to accuse 
himself of any crime or misdemeanor, or to expose him to any penal­ 
ty or forfeiture, nor in any respect to vary or alter any other rule re- 
specting the ex.!J.miDuiQ.n of witnesses. · ---
-~.~~inister of the gospel, or priest of any denomination 
whatsoever, shall be allowed to disclose any confessions made to him 
in his professional character, in the course of discipline enjoined by 
the rules or practice of such denomination. 
SEC. 8. No person duly authorised to practice physic or surgery,
shall be allowed to disclose any information which he may have ac­ 
quired in attending any patient, in a professional character, and which 
information was necessary to enable him to prescribe for such patient 
as a physician, or to do any act for him, as a surgeon. 
SEC. 4. Whenever a party to any action shall have been ~rmitted
to prove by his own oath the loss of any instrument, in order to ad- 
mit other proof of the contents thereof; the adverse party may al8o 
be examined by the court on oath, to disprove such loss, and to ac­ 
count for such instrument. 
SEC. 5. In any suit founded upon any negotiable promissory note or
bill of exchange, or in which such note, if produced, might be al­ 
lowed as a set-off in the defence of any suit, if it appear on the trial 
that such note or bill was lost while it belonged to Die party claiming 
the amount due thereon, parol or other evidence of the contents there­ 
of may be given, on such trial, and notwithstanding such note or bill
was negotiable, such party shall be entitled to recover the amount due
thereon as if such note or bill had been produced. 
SEC. 6. But to entitle a party to such recovery, he shall execute a
bond to the adverse party, in a penalty at least double the amount of 
such note or bill, with two sureties, to be approved by the court in 
which the trial shall be had, conditioned to indemnify the adverse
party, his heirs and personal representatives, against all claims by any 
other person on account of such note or bill, and against all costs and
expenses by reason of such claim. 
SEC. 7. In every action upon a sealed instrument, and where a set- 
• , 
off IS founded upon any sealed mstrument, the seal thereof shall only be 
presumptive evidence of a sufficient consideration which may be re­
butted in the same manner, and to the same extent, as if such inatru· 
ment were not sealed. 
SEC. 8. The defence ailowed by the last section, shall not be made,
unless the defendant shall have pleaded the same, or shall have given 
notice thereof, at the time of pleading the general issue, or some other
plea denying the contract on which the action is b~ought. - 
SEC. 9. Every variance between process, pleadings, or any instru- 
pient in writing, recited or referred to in any other process, pleading
or reccrd..and every mistake in -the name of any officer or other per· 
&on, in stating any day, month or year, or in the description of any
property, in any pleading or record, which, according to law, could
be amended by the court after verdict rendered in any cause, shall be 
disregarded upon the trial or such cause, unless such variance or mis-
take be calculated to surprise and mislead the adverse party, and 
prevent his making due preparation for a full answer on the merits,
to the matter concerning which, such variance or mistake shall have 
been made. 
SEC. 0. In suits by or against an aggregate corporation, the admis- 
•
SIOD of any member thereof not named on the record as a party to such 
suit, shall not be received as evidence against such corporation, un- 
less such admission was made concerning some transaction, in which 
such member was the authorised agent of such corporation. 
SEC. 1. Any member of a corporation aggregate, not named on the 
reeo as a party to a suit roug t r or agamst sue corporation, 
rd
• b h b • h • 
shall be received as a competent witness, to testify to any matter
against the interest of such corporation. --._ 
AllTIOLB NI.NTH. 
Of the .Adminiatration of Datha and ..A..ffirmatiom. 
SEC. 2. Genetal mode of swearing by kissing the gospels.
SS. When it may be dispensed with, in ,wearing. 
8f. When affirmation to be received instead or oath.
SEC. 5. Other peculiar mode, or •wearing may be adopted. 
SEC. 8. Mode ol swearing penou not being Chriltiau.
SEC. 7. What religiou belief to entitle pel'IODI to be IW'OrD, 
SEC. 8. Penou not to be required to declare their belief. 
SEC. 9. Bat court may examine inf'antl, &c. on certain pointl.
SEC. 0. Perjury to 11rear fallely in my form aDthoriled by law. 
SEC. 2. The usual mode of administering oat!is now practised, by
the person who swears, laying his hand upon and kissing the gospels, 
shall be observed in all cases in which an oath may be administer-
ed, according to law, except in the cases herein after otherwise pro- 
rided. H 
SEC. 8. Every person who shall desire it, shall be permitted to 
swear in the following form : "You do swear in the presence of the
ever living God;" and while so swearing, such person may or may 
not hold up his hand, in his discretion.26 • 
SEC. 4. Every person who shall declare that he bas conscientious 
I
• aki th • • r'. hall be 
scrup es agamst t ng any oa , or swearmg ID any torm, s per- 
mitted to. make his solemn declaration or affirmation in the following
form: "You do solemnly, sincerely and truly, declare and affirm."28 
SEC. 5. Whenever the court before whi~h any person shall be offer- 
ed
• h 11 be isfied th h h Ii 
as a witness, s a satt at sue person as any pecu ar
mode of swearing connected with, or in addition to, the laying of his 
hand upon the gospels and kissing the same, which is more solemn 
and obligatory in the opinion of suck. person, the court may, in its di.
cretion, adopt such mode of swearing such penon. · 
SEC. 6. Every person believing in any other thaJi the Christian re- 
OF THE TRIAL OF ISSUES OF FACT. 
ART. 1.-General provisions concerning trials, and the proceedings preparatory thereto. 
AB. 'P, 2,--0l the return and 1U111moning of j 11,on. 
AaT. 3.-0( 1pecial juries. 
AJLT. 4.-0ftaial, and its incidents. 
· 
ligion, shall be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his re- 
ligion, if there be any such ceremonies, instead of any of the modes
herein before prescribed, 
SEC. 7. Every person ~lieving in the existence of a Supreme Be­
ing who will punish false swearing, shall be admitted to be sworn, if 
otherwise competent.
SEC. 8. No person shall be required to declare his belief in the ex- 
f S B . h h ill . . h "" I .
Istence o a upreme emg, or t at e w1 pums ra se swearmg, or 
his belief or disbelief of any other matter, as a requisite to his admis­
sion to be sworn or to testify in any case. But the belief or unbelief 
of every person offered as a witness, may be prOTed by other and
competent testimony. 
SEC. 9. But the last section shall not be construed to prevent any
be ak • JI 
court fore whom an infant, or a person apparently of we mte ect,
shall be produced as a wi.tnm, from examining such person, to ascer­ 
tain bis capacity t and the extent of his religious and other knowledge;
nor shall it be construed to prevent a court from inquiring of any per­
son what are the peculiar ceremonies observed by him in »wearing,
which he deems most obligatory. 
SEC. 0. In all Cases in which an oath er affidavit is required Or au­
thorised by law, the same may be taken in any ol the forms in this
Article prescribed, in the several cases herem before speciied; and
every person swearing, affirming or declaring, in any 8UCh iorm, or in
auy form authorised by law, shall be deemed to have been lawfully 
sworn, and to be guilty of perjury for corruptly or falsely swearing, 
affirming or declaring in any such form, in the same manner u if he 
had sworn by laying his hand upon th6 gospels, and kissing the aame, 
TITLE IV. 
A..BTICLE J"lll8T. . ~ 
.,.... 
Get&eral PrOtJNioAB concerRiag Trials, and the Proeeemag,
- preparatory llereto. 
SEC. 1. IAU9 ol&ct to be tried at ciNuit; when at mr. 
2. In what COWlDel certain actiona to be tried.
S. Consequence. of not laying 1uitl against public officer,, iD preper couty. 
4. All i1111e. o( fact to be tried by jury • .reree.. 
Ssc. IS. Circuit roil, for trial1 by jury; their oontenti. 
6. When to be filed, no 1eal nece11aty, &c., 
7. Noticea of trial to be 1ernd fourteen days preTioaaly. 
8. Not.ice of issue to be served on cler~, foll!' days previously.
9. V enire1 abolished, except for foreign juries. 
SEC. 1. Foreign jllriea how ob~ ud 11UDlllODed, 
SEC. 1. All issue~ of fact ~hich shall be joined in the court of chance-
ry, or in any surrogate's court, and which shall be sent to the supreme 
court for trial ; and all issues of fact' joined .in the supreme court;
shall be tried at a circuit court, or sittings of the supreme court, in the 
proper county; unless the supreme court shall, on the motion of either
~arty, in cases of_ great difficulty, or which req?ire great examina- 
non, order such trial to be had at the bar of the said court. 
SEC. 2. Issues of fact joined in such actions, shall be tried in the pr~ 
per county' as follows : . 
I. Actions for the recovery of any real estate, or for· the recovery
of possession of real estate, actions for trespass on land, and actions for
trespass on the case for injuries to real estate, shall be tried in the 
county where the subject of the action shall be situated: 
2. Actions of trespass.for injuries to the person; and actions on the
case for injuries to the person, or personal property; shall be tried in 
the county where the cause of action arose : 
3. Actions of slander, for libels, and all other actions for wrongs,
and upon contracts, shall be tried in the county where the venue shall
be laid, unless the court shall deem it necessary for the convenience
of parties and their witnesses, or for the purposes of a fair and im-
partial trial, to order such issues to be tried in some other county; in
which case, the same shall be tried in the county so designated : 
And the court shall have power to change the venue in any of the
actions specified in this section, when it shall appear that a fair and 
impartial trial cannot he had in the county in which such venue is
Iaid.28 
SEC. 8. In suits against public officers, or against any person special-
ly appointed to execute the duties of such officers, for any act done 
by them by virtue of their offices respectively, and in suits against
other persons, who, by the commandment of such officers, or in their
aid or assistance, do any thing touching the duties .of such office,
which are required · by law to be laid in the county where the fact
happened, if it shall not appear on the trial, that the cause of such ac-
tion arose within the county where such trial is had, the jury shall be
discbaife'd, and judgment .of discontinuance· shall be rendered against 
the plait¢1fl: 
29 
SEC. 4. Aft issues of fact joined in any court, proceeding according
to the course of the. common law, shall be tried by a jury, except in
those cases where a reference shall be ordered ; and trials by battle 
27 
and by the grand assize, and all other modes of trial, except by a jury, 
or by referees, are hereby forever abollshed.t? 
SEC. 5. The party entitled to bring any such issue to trial at a circuit
court or sittings, shall make out a transcript of the pleadings in the 
cause relating to such issue, with an entry therein, that the issue or
issues 80 joined, are ordered by the court to be tried at the circuit
court or sittings at which the same may be triable, without any re­ 
spite of the jury, or award of process for theie appearance at the next
or any other term of the supreme court, and without any nin pritu 
clause.11 
SEC. 6. Such transcript shall be denominated a circuit roll, and shall
be filed with the clerk of the court at which such issue or iuues are 
to be tried ; but no such transcript shall be necessary, unlea1 the
cause is to be tried at a circuit court, nor shall a seal to such roll in
any case be necessary. 
7. Written notice of trial of every issue of fact, shall in all cues
the 
be served at least fourteen days before the fil'Bt day of court at
which such trial shall be intended to be had. 
ABTICLB SECOND, 
Of the Retum and Summoning of Juror,. 
SEC. 2. Certain town o8icen to uaemble, to make jury li,ta.
SEC. 8. Qulification, of penons to be selected u jaron.
SEC. 4. ID certain coantie1, qualification u to property.
SEC. 5. Daplicate Ii.ta of juron, when made, where to be filed.
SEC. 6. Ballot. of name, returned, to be made by C011Dty clerk.
SEC. 7. Term of ,errice of penom returned.
SEC. 8. Ne,r li,ta to be made nery third year by town officen. 
12 
SEC. 8. A note of the issue joined in any cause which is to be tried, 
shall be served on the clerk of the court in which the same ia to be
tried, at least four days before the opening of such court. 
SEC. 9. It shall not be necessary, in any case to issue or award any 
vmire for the summoning of jurors to attend any circuit court or sit·
tings, court of common pleas or mayor's court, except when a foreign 
jury shall be ordered. 
SEC. 0. Whenever a foreign jury shall be ordered by any court, a 
11enire for that purpose shall issue to the sheriff' of the proper county,
who shall give notice of the same to the clerk of such county, at leut
twenty days before the return of such 11emre. · 
SEC. 1. The clerk to whom such notice shall have been given, shall 
11 
" • 
draw the names of twenty-four persons from the hsts returned to him
by the town officers, in the same manner as herein after directed
with respect to ordinary juries, and shall deliver a certified list of the
names 80 drawn to such sheriff, who shall summon them es in other
cases. 
SEC. 9. Proceedinp by town oflicen for that pupote.
SEC. 0. County clerk to destroy the old, and make new ballot1.
SEC. 1. Warda in New-York, towna; powen of common council.
22, Preeed.ing pron.icat applied to proceedinga in New-York. 
SEC. 3. Proriaiom rapecting other citie,.
fl. When juron to be drawn to sene at comta; their number, 
a Notice of drawing, bow to be publuhed and 1e"ed.
SEC. 8. Daty of sheriff" and coUDty judge notified, to attend drawing.
SEC. 7. If they neglect, other judge and jultice1 to be noillled.
a Wi.t oSeen to be present at drawing of jary.
SEC. 9. Manner of conducting drawing.
80, Jaron when and how to be 11UD1Doned, retlll'll thereof. 
at. Copy nlut of'juon dra,rn, to be funailbed to applicant..
SEC. 2. Fine to be impo9ed on defaulting juror,.
SEC. 8. Cua ia which penou ,hall be diaclwged from ae"iug. 
a e.Jlot ooataiais1 name or penon ducharged, to be de1troyed.
81, Cua in ,rhicbjuron ,hall be exCU1ed from 1e"ing.
SEC. 8. Ballou bow di1pol8d a( on adjo1ll'Dlllent or court. 
sr. Clerlu of eertaia covtl in New-York, to delinr li1ta to county clerk.
SEC. 8. Daty of couty clerk of New-York, thereupon.
SEC. 9. Wbea drawing to be made Crom seeond box. 
SEC. 8. Old bJllou to lte deatroyed on new return, or juron, Ac. 
SEC. 1. When additional juron may be directed by circuit judge.
4 Order ,rhea to be ae"ed on county clerk; hi, proceedin~. 
,Cl. New paaeb .. , be ordered by coarta in New· York.
SEC. 4. Juon how 1ummoned and returned.
SEC. 5. Foimer jaron to be di1cbarged, &c. 
~ 1!. The supervisor, t'>wn clerk and assessors of the several towns
of this state, shall assemble on the first Monday of July next after 
this Chapter shall commence and take effect as a law, at such place
in their respective towns as shall be appointed by the supervisor,
in his abtence, or in case of a vacancy in his office, by the town clerk,
l>r the purpose of making a list of persons to serve as jurors." 
I ts. The said town officers, when so assembled, shall proceed
aelect from the names of those assessed on the last assessment rolls 
the town, suitable persons to serve as jurors ; and in making such se­ 
lection, they sha11 take the names of such only as are, 
1. Male inhabitants of the town, not exempt from se"ing on
juries: 
SEC. 1. Of the age of twenty-one years or upwards, and under sixty 
years old: 
1. Who are at the time assessed for personal property belonging to
them in their own right, to the amount of two hundred and fifty dol­ 
lars, or who shall have a freehold estate in real property in the coun­
ty, belonging to them in their own right, or in the right of their 
wives, to the value of one hundred and fifty dollars : 
4. Io the poaeuion of their natural faculties, and not in.firm or de­
crepit: 
s, Free from all legal exceptions, of fair character, of approved in­
tegrity, of 10undjudgment and well informed. 
SEC. 4. EYery person residing in either of the counties of Niagara, 
Erie, Chautauque, Cattaraugus, Allegany, Genesee, Orleans, Monroe, 
Livingston, Jefferson, Lewis, St. Lawrence and Franklin, who does
not possess either of the qualifications specified in the third subdivi­
sion of the last section, but is qualified in all other respects, and who 
shall have been assessed on the last assessment roll of the town for
land in his possession which he holds under contract for the purchase
thereof, upon which improvements shall have. been made to the value
of one hundred and fifty dollars, and who shall own such improve­
ments, shall be deemed qualified to serve as a juror ; and the town 
officers authorised to select and return jurors, may take the names of
such persons. 
rors, 
35 
SEC. 5. Duplicate lists of the persons so selected, with their addi-
ti d l f id hall be d d . ed b th 
ions an p aces o resi ence, s ma c out an sign y e
town officers so assembled, or the major part of them; and within'
ten days after the first Monday in July before mentioned, one of the
said lists shall be transmitted to the county clerk, and the other of
the said lists shall be filed with the town clerk. 
SEC. 6. On the first Monday of August after the said lists shall have 
SEC. 0. Upon receiving such new lists, the county clerk shall, on
the first Monday of August thereafter, destroy the ballots deposited 
in the box kept by him, and shall write the names of the jurors so re· 
turned on separate pieces of paper, and deposit them in a box, in the
same manner in all respects, as herein before prescribed on the return 
of the first list of jurors. 
• 
been so returned, the clerk of the county shall write the names con·
tained in said lists, with their additions and places of residence, on se­
parate pieces of paper, and deposit the same in a box to be provided
and kept for that purpose. 
SEC. 7. The persons whose names shall be so returned, shall serve
as jurors for three years, and until other lists from their respective
towns shall be returned and filed. 
SEC. 8. On the 'first Monday in July in each third year after the first
selection and return -of jurors as herein before directed; the supervi- 
sor, town clerk and assessors, shall assemble at the place appointed
by the supervisor, or in case of his absence, or a vacancy in his office,
by the town clerk, and shall make out new duplicate lists of persons
to serve as jurors for the then ensuing three years ; and shall file such
list with the town clerk, and return a duplicate to the county clerk,
as herein before directed. 
SEC. 9. In making such selection the said town officers shall pro-
ceed as herein before directed in respect to the first selection of ju· 
SEC. 1. In the city and county of New-York each ward shall be
deemed a town, for the purpose of returning jurors; ·and the commo~ 
council of the said city shall provide, by ordinance, the manner in 
which, and how often, such selection shall be made, and the officers
and persons by whom it shall be conducted. 
86
, 
SEC. 2. The provisions herein contained respecting the persons to be 
selected as jurors, the return of the lists to the county clerk, the deposit
of the names of the persons returned, and the destruction of the former
names, upon the coming in of a new return, shall apply to the city
and county of New-York, and to the officers who shall be appointed by
the common council thereof, to make such returns. 
SEC. 8. The several wards of the cities of Albany, Troy, Hudson and 
. . . . . 
Schenectady, shall be considered towns, for the purposes of the pron-
sions of this Title, in respect to the return of jurors; and the supervi- 
801's and assessors of such wards respectively, shall execute the duties
herein enjoined upon the supervisors, assessors and town clerks of tile 
several towns in this state ; except that a duplicate of the returns of 
jurors made by them, shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the city
in which such ward may be situated. s1 
SEC. 4. Fourteen days before the holding of any circuit court or sit-
tings, or of any special court of oyer and terminer, when no circuit is 
appointed to be held at the same time, or of any court of common pleas
or mayor's court, and in the city and county of New-York, before the
holding of the superior court of law, or the court of general sessions,
the clerk of the county in which such court is to be held, shall draw 
the names of thirty-six persons, to serve as jurors at such court, and 
any number in addition thereto, that shall have been ordered accord-
ing to law. 
38 
SEC. 5. At least six days' notice of such drawing shall be given by
such clerk, by publishing the same in a newspaper of the county, ifdra"Ulf· 
there be any, and if not, by affixing such notice on the outer door of the
house where the court for which such jury is to be drawn, is about to 
be held. A copy of such notice shall also be served on the sheriff of
the county, and upon the first or some other judge of the county courts,
at least three days previous to the time appointed therein for drawing. 
SEC. 6. At the time so appointed, it shall be the duty of the sheriff
of the county, in person, or by his under-sheriff, and of the first or 
other county judge on whom such notice shall have been served, to 
aUend at the clerk's office of tJie county, to witness the drawing of 
such jury. · - 
SEC. 7. If the sheriff or co~nty judge~ notified do not appear, the
clerk shall adjourn the drawmg of such Jury to the next day, and shall, 
by written notice, require the delinquent sheriff or judge, or some oth-
er county judge, or any two justices of the peace, to attend such draw-
ing on the adjourned day. 
SEC. 8. If at the adjol!r~y, th~ !htrifl: or 'uo4er-aheriff, and a
county judge or justice of the peace, appear, cJr if -,,. two c.ounty 
judges or justices of the peace appear, but not "otherw\l, the clerk
shall proceed, in the presence of the officers so appearing, to draw the 
jury. 
SEC. 9. The clerk shall condu~t such drawing as follows: 
1. He shall shake the box containing the names of jurors returned 
to him, so as to mix the slips of paper on which such names were writ· 
ten, as much as possible : 
t. He shall then publicly draw out of the said box, as many of the
said slips of paper containing such names, as there shall be jurors re­ 
quired by law or specially ordered for such court:
a. A minute of the drawing shall be kept by one of the attending 
be entered the name contained on every slip of
paper so drawn, before any other such slip shall be drawn: 
4. If, after drawing the whole number required, the name of any 
person shall appear to have been drawn who is dead, or become in­
sane, or who has permanently removed from the county, to the know· 
ledge of the clerk or any other attending officer, an entry of such fact 
shall be made in the minute of the drawing, and the slip of paper con· 
taining such name shall be destroyed: 
& • Another name shall then be drawn, in place of that contained
on the slip of paper so destroyed, which shall be in like manner enter· 
ed in the minutes of the drawing: 
6: The same proceedings shall be h~ as often as may be necessary,
until the whole number of'jurors required shall have been drawn: 
T. The minute of the drawing shall then be signed by the clerk and 
the attending officers, and shall be filed in the clerk's office : 
8. A list of the names of the persons so drawn, with their additions
and places of residence, and specifying for what court they were drawn, 
shall be made and certified by the clerk and the attending officers, and 
shall be delivered to the sheriff of the county. 
! SO. The aheri.ff shall summon the persons named in such list, to
attend such court, at least six days previous to the sitting thereof, by
giving personal notice to each person, or by leaving a written notice 
at his place of residence, with some person of proper age. He shall
return the said list to the court, at the opening thereof, specifying
those who were summoned, and the manner in which each person 
was notified.19 
SEC. 1. It shall be the duty of the county clerk, and of th~ sheriff, to
furnish any person applying therefor, and paying the fees allowed by 
law for the same, a copy of the list of jurors drawn to attend any 
court.40 
,- 
SEC. 2. The court to which any list of jurors so drawn shall be re-
turned by the sheriff, shall impose a fine, not exceeding twenty-five~ 
dollars, for each day that any person duly summoned as a juror, shall,
without reasonable cause, neglect to attend. But if it appear by such
return, that any person was notified by leaving a written notice at his
place of residence, the court shall suspend such fine, until the default-
ing juror shall be notified, as provided by law. 
SEC. 8. The court shall discharge any person from serving on a jury,
• the ~ II ' 
m ,o owmg cases : 
1. When it shall satisfactorily appear that such person is not, at the
time, the owner, in his own right, or in the right of his wife, of 
freehold estate in real property, situated within the county, of the
yaJue of one hundred and fifty dollars, and is not the owner of person-
al property to the value of two hundred and fifty dollars ; and in the
counties specified in the preceding fourteenth section, that such person
ia not pouessed of the property qualification therein required : 
st. When it shall appear that such person is under twenty-one years
of age, or over sixty years of age ; or that he is not in possession 
any of his rational faculties : 
a. When there is. any legal exception against such person :
,. When such person is a non-commissioned 'officer, musician 
private of any uniformed company or troop, and is duly equipped and
uniformed, according to law, and shall claim such exemption. The
evidence of such exemption shall be the certificate of the command­
ing officer of the company or troop, that the person claiming the same 
is a member of such company, and is duly equipped and uniformed,
according to law. Such certificate must be dated within three
months of the time of presenting the same ; and the signature must 
be verified by oath. Every such certificate shall be filed with the
clerk of the court to which it shall be offered : 
6. When such person is a member of any company of firemen, duly 
organized according to law : 
6. When such person is in the actual employment of any glass,
cotton, linen, woollen or iron manufacturing company, by the year, 
month or season : 
7. When such person is a superintendent, engineer or collector
any canal authorised by the laws of this state, any portion of which,
shall be actually constructed and navigated: 
s. When such person is a minister of the gospel, or teacher in any
college or academy, or when sach person is or shall be specially ex­
empted by law from serving on juries. •1 
SEC. 4. When the court shall have discharged any juror, for any 
the causes in the last section specified, the clerk shall destroy the bal-
lot containing the name of such juror. 
SEC. 5. The court to which any person shall be returned as a juror,
shall excuse such juror from serving at such court, whenever it shall 
appear, 
1. That he is a practising physician, and has patients requiring his 
attention : or,
2. That he is a surrogate, or justice of the peRce, or executes any 
other civil office, the duties of which are, at the time, inconsistent
with his aUendance as a juror : 
a. That he is a teacher in any school, actually employed and serr­ 
ing as such:
,. When, for any other reason, the interests of the public, or of the 
individual juror, will be materially injured by such attendance; or his
own health, or that of any member of his family, requires his absence 
from such court : ·
And when any person shall be so excused from serving, his name 
shall be returned to the box from which it was taken. 
SEC. 6. After the adjournment of any court at which any jurors shall
have been returned, as herein provided, the clerk shall deposit the 
ballots containing the names of those who attended and served as ju·
rors, in a box distinct from that, from which they were taken ; and
the ballots containing the names of those who did not appear and
serve as jurors, which shall not have been destroyed, shall be return·
ed to the box from which they were taken.42 
SEC. 7. The clerk of the circuit court and sittings, the clerk of the
f d • d • 1 k f 
courts o oyer an termmer an general sessions, and the c er o 
h • fl • h • d f N y k 'th
t e superior court o aw in t e city an county o ew- or , Wl • 
in one week after the termination of every sitting of their respective
courts, shall deliver to the clerk of the city and county of New-York, 
a certified list of all the jurors who were returned to such court, and
shall specify therein, 
1. Those who appeared and served : 
2. Those who were discharged on account of their being exempt 
from serving on juries, or on account of their being unqualified:
s. Those who, for any other reason, were excused from serving, 
and those who made default in appearing and serving.43 
SEC. 8. The county clerk shall return to the box from which they 
were taken, the names of those jurors who appear, from such certified
list, to have been excused from serving, or to have made default in
their appearance ; he shall destroy the ballots containing the names of 
those who were discharged on account of their being exempt, or on
account of their being unqualified; and he shall deposit the ballots
containing the names of those who appeared and served, in a separate
box, distina from that from which they were taken. 
SEC. 9. If at the time of drawing any jury by the clerk, as herein
provided, there shall not be a sufficient number of ballots remaining
in the first box in which they were deposited, after drawing all that 
may be therein, the clerk shall proceed to draw the necessary num-
ber from the second box herein before mentioned, containing the
names of those jurors who have before served ; and shall continue to 
draw from such box, until a new retum of jurors be made by the
town officers, as herein provided. 
SEC. 0. Upon every new return of jurors being made, the clerk shall
destroy all the ballots remaining in either of the boxes provided by
him, and shall proceed to make out new ballots, and deposit and
draw them in the same manner herein prescribed in relation to the 
&rst return of jurors. 
SEC. 1. Whenever, in the opinion of any circuit judge, more than 
th
• • • h 11 be "red d • •
irty-&lX JUrors S a requ1 to atten any circuit court or court 
of oyer and terminer, he may, by an order under his hand, direct such
additional number of jurors as he shall deem necessary, not exceed- 
ing twenty-four, to be drawn. 
SEC. 2. Such order shall be served on, and filed with, the clerk 
the
• hi h h . be h Id } d 
county in w 1c sue court 1s to e , at east twenty ays pre-
vious to the day appointed for the commencement thereof; and the 
said clerk shall thereupon draw the number specified in such order, 
in addition to the number of thirty-six, and shall proceed therein in all
respects, in the same manner herein prescribed. 
SEC. 8. Any judge holding any sittings or circuit court in the city 
and county of New-York, the judge or judges holding the superior
conrt of law, the judge holding the court of common pleas, or holding
the court of general sessions of the peace, in the said city and county, 
may, during the continuance or any such court, as often as it may be 
necessary, order a new panel or thirty-six jurors to be drawn to at- 
tend such court. Upon such order being served on the clerk or the 
city and county of New-York, he shall proceed to draw the jurors so
ordered, and deliver a list or the names drawn, to the sheriff, in the 
aame manner as herein provided in relation to other jurors. 
SEC. 4. The sheritr shall summon such jurors in the manner herein
directed respecting the first jury drawn, and shall in like manner re· 
turn the names of those summoned to the court.
SEC. 5. Upon the attendance of such new jurors, the former jurors 
shall be discharged, and all trials and proceedings in such court shall 
be had before such ne.~ jurors, in the same manner as the same might 
have been bad befor~ _such former jurors. 
44 
ARTICLE TRJBD. 
Of Special Juries. 
SEC. 6. When 1pecial jurie, may be ordered. 
SEC. 7. Notice of 1trikingjury to be given, 
SEC. 8. Mode or proceedmg to 1trike jury. 
SEC. 9. Duty of 1heriff' iD 1ummon.ing jlll"On 1track.
SEC. 0. Jury ror trial bow formed from th01e ,elected.
SEC. 1. When other penou to 1trike jury in1tead or clerk.
SEC. 2. Expeue of 1triking jury by whom to be paid. 
SEC. 6. When it shall appear to the supreme court, or to any court
of common pleas, in which any cause shall be pending, that a fair and 
impartial trial will be more likely to be obtained by having a struck 
jury, or that the importance or intricacy of. the cause requires such a
jury, such court shall order a special jury to be struck for the trial of 
such cause.46 
SEC. 7. The party obtaining such order, shall give notice, eight days 
previously, of the time when he will attend before the clerk of the 
county in which the venue in such action is laid, for the purpose of 
having such jury struck. 
SEC. 8. At the time appointed, the clerk of the county shall attend
at his office, with the original lists of the jurors returned to him by the 
officers of the several towns, who are then liable to serve, and in the 
presence of the parties, or their counsel, shall proceed to strike a jury
as follows : a 
1. The clerk shall select from such lists the names of forty-eight
persons, whom he shall deem most indifferent between the parties,
and best qualified to try such cause : 
2. The party on whose application such struckjury was ordered,or
his attorney, shall then first strike out one of the said names, and the 
opposite party or his agent shall strike out another of such names, and 
so alternately until each party shall have striken out twelve names: 
s. If either party shall fail to attend at the time and place of strik­ 
ing such jurors, or shall neglect to strike out any names according to 
the foregoing provisions, the clerk shall strike for such party: 
4. The clerk shall thereupon make out a list of the names of the
twenty-four persons not stricken out, and certify the same to be the 
persons drawn to serve as jurors pursuant to the order of the court, 
and shall deliver such list so certified to the sheriff of the county. 
SEC. 9. The sheriff shall summon the persons whose names are con· 
tained on the lists so delivered to him by the clerk, in the same man·
ner as other jurors are required to be summoned, and shall return the
names of those summoned to the court at which they are required to
appear as jurors. 
SEC. 0. A jury shall be formed in the manner herein after directed
with respect to other jurors, from the persons so summoned and ap­
pearing, who shall try the cause in which such struck jury shall have 
been ordered; but the court shall have the same power-to excuse or
discharge any such juror, as in other cases. 
SEC. 1. If it shall appear to the court to which any application for
struck jury shall be made, that the clerk of the county is interested
the cause, related to either of the parties, or not indifferent between
them, such court shallappoint two proper persons to strike such jury. 
The persons so appointed shall possess all the powers herein confer-
red upon the clerk in relation to the striking, certifying and deliver-
ing to the sheriff" the names of the persons struck as jurors, and the
sheriff" shall in like manner summon the persons so selected. 
SEC. 2. The expense of striking a jury shall be paid by the party ap-
plying for the same, and shall not be taxed in the costs of the suit.•• 
A.RTICLE FOURTH. 
OJ Trial, and its Incidents. 
SEC. 8. Trials to be had by juron returned; jory of part alieu, abrogated.
M. Deficiencies in jurie, how 1upplied.
SEC. 5. Proceedings (or that pmpose; fine Cor not attending, &c. 
SEC. 6. Clerk being party, &c. not ground for Cjhallenge. 
rn. When challenge good where 1heriff'iat party, &c. 
r,s. Liability o( juror or otlicer to pay tax'8, not came. 
SEC. 9. Ballots of juron to be made at opening oC every court. 
SEC. 0. Manner of drawing out ballot. for trial. 
SEC. 1. Fint twelve appearmg, and apprond, to Corm jury. 
ea .u.Jlots of juron ,worn, how di1poeed of. 
SEC. 3. When jvy discharged, their ballot. to be retUJ'Ded to box.
SEC. 4. Drawing when a jury out; in all other cue, all the ballot. to be in box. 
SEC. 6. Jury bow obtained when there are no ballotl undn.wn. 
SEC. 6. How ballot, are to be drawn Crom· box. 
fll. Ballots of juron ab1ent, &c. to be retnrnecl to box.
SEC. 8. Juries may give special nrdictl. 
m. Juron not to be queationed for verdicts, except by indictment. 
SEC. 0. Forfeiture by jurors taking gifb, &c. from partie1.
SEC. 1. :Forfeitare by penona making gift., &c. to juron.
SEC. 2. Circuit roll and papen, how dupo1ecl oC after trial. 
SEC. 3. When exception, may be made. 
SEC. 4. To be in writing; time allowed to put in Corm. 
SEC. 6. Statemeot of aceptiom to l,e aignecl; how compelled. 
SEC. 6. Bill not to prevent motion to 1et uide verdict. 
TT. BID bow certified and returned. 
SEC. 8. Proceedmg1i when ftled in oommon pleu or mayor'• court. 
SEC. 9. lb. when filed at circuit, to whom to be delivered. 
SEC. 0. To be returned to ,upreme court; proceedinp thereon. 
SEC. 1. Proceeclingl (or not bringing caue to trial.
SEC. 2. lb. and eff'ect oC judgment in 1uch cue; costs.
SEC. 8. Continunce oC C&11.1e1 not tried, how to be entered. 
· ~ 5S. Trials of fact, by jury, in every court of common law juris-Triu:./r''
diction, shall be had by jurors, drawn, summoned and returned, 
the manner herein before directed ; and no alien shall be entitled
a jury of part aliens or strangers, in any suit whatever.41 
SEC. 4. Whenever a sufficient number of jurors, duly drawn and
summoned, do not appear, or cannot be obtained, to form a jury, the 
court may order the s~eriff to summon from the by-standers, or from 
the county at large, so many pel'SODB qualified to serve as jurors, u
shall be sufficient. •8 
SEC. 5. The sheriff shall summon the number so ordered, from among
the inhabitants of the county duly qualified to serve as j11rors iD the
cause, and return their names to the court. Every person so sum­ 
moned shall attend forthwith, and serve as a juror, unless excused by
the court ; and for every neglect or refusal so ta attend, shall be sub­ 
ject to fine, in the same manner as jurors regularly drawn and sum­ 
moned, BB herein before provided ; and the persons so summoned shall
be subject to all exceptions and challenges, as other jurors. 
SEC. 6. It shall not be a cause of challenge to any panel or array of
jurors, in any cause, that the clerk of the county who drew them, 
was a party or interested in such cause, or was counsel or attorney
for, or related to, either party therein. 
SEC. 7. It shall not be a. good cause of challenge ·to the panel or ar-
ray of jurors, in any cause, that they were summoned by the sberif 
who was a party, or interested in such· cause, or related to either par·
ty therein, unless it be alleged in such challenge, and be satisfacto­
rily shown, ~at some of the jurors drawn by the clerk were not IUJll­ 
mooed, and that such omission \V88 intentional.
SEC. 8. In penal actions for the recovery of any sum, it shall not be 
a good cause of challenge to the jurors summoned, or to any officer
summoning them, that such juror or officer is liable to pay taxes in 
any town or county, which may be benefitted by such recovery.49 
SEC. 9. At the opening of every court at whlch issues of fact are to 
be tried, the clerk of such court shall cause the names of the several
persons returned as jurors by the sheri1f, with their respective addi­ 
tions and places of residence, to be written on several and distinct
pieces of paper; and shall roll up or fold such pieces of paper, each 
in the same manner, as near as may be, and so as to resemble each
other as much as possible, and so that the name written thereon shall
not be visible. The said pieces of paper shall be deposited in a suffi·
cient box, from which they shall be drawn, as herein after provided. 
SEC. 0. When any issue shall be brought on for trial, the clerk of
the court, under its direction, shall openly draw out of the box in 
which they were deposited, so many of the ballots containing the 
names of the jurors returned, one after another, as shall be sufficient
to form a jury. 
60 
SEC. 1. The twelve first persons who shall appear as their namel
are drawn and called, and shall ~- approved as inclliferent betweeP 
the parties, shall be sworn, and shall be the jury to try such i.s&ue~ 
SEC. 2. The ballots containing the names of the jurors 80 sworn, shall
be then deposited in another box, and there kept apart from the bal· 
60 
69 
Iota containing the names of the other jurors, until such jury be di&-
charged.61 
SEC. 8. After such jury shall have been discharged, the ballots con-
taining their names shall be again rolled up or folded, in the same 
manner as herein before directed, and shall be returned to the box
from which they were first taken; and the same course shall be pur- 
sued, as often as any issue shall be brought on to be tried. 
SEC. 4. If any issue shall be brought on to be tried, while there
shall be a jury empannelled in another cause in the same court, and 
not then discharged, the court may order a jury to be drawn in the
manner above directed, out of the box containing the ballots then un-
drawn ; but in all other cases, the ballots containing all the names
all the jurors returned and appearing at such court, shall be placed
together in the same box, before any jury shall be drawn therefrom. 
SEC. 5. If, by reason of there being one or more juries empannelled,
or for any other reason, there shall not remain any ballots undrawn
or if, in consequence of jurors being set aside, no juror can be obtain- 
ed from the list of those returned by the sheriff, for the trial of any 
issue, the court may as in other cases, order the sheriff, or if he be
party in such issue, some other person to be appointed by the court,
to summon jurors from the by-standers, or other persons, who shall be 
returned and sworn, as herein before directed, and shall be a compe-
tent jury for the trial of such issue, notwithstanding there may be none
of the panel of jurors returned by the sheriff upon such jury. 
SEC. 6. Before any jury shall be drawn, the box containing the bal-
lots of the names of the jurors shall be closed, and shall be well sha- 
ken, so as to intermingle such ballots ; and the clerk shall draw such
ballots, without seeing the names written on them, through a hole
made in the lid of such box, so large only as conveniently to admit 
hishand.61 
SEC. 7. If any juror be absent at the time his name is drawn and
called, or be set aside, or. excused from serving on the trial of any 
iuue, the ballot containing his name shall be rolled up or folded 
again, in the same manner as before, and returned to the box contain-
ing the undrawn ballots, so soon as the jury shall be sworn to try
such illue, 
61 
SEC. 8. No jury shall; in any case, be compelled to give a gene-
ral v~rdict, so that they find a special verdict showing the facts, re- 
speeting which issue is joined, and therein require the judgment of
the court upon such facts. 
62 
SEC. 9. Attaint, upon untrue verdicts are abolished ; and for any 
venliot rendered by him, no juror shall be questioned, or be subject to 
anr action or proceeding, civil or criminal, except to indictment for 
61 
corrupt conduct in rendering such verdict, in the cases prescribed by 
~law.61 
SEC. 0. If any person drawn or summoned as a juror, shall take any 
thing to give his verdict, or shall receive any gift or gratuity what-
ever from any party to a suit, for the trial of which such person shall 
be drawn or summoned, in addition to any criminal punishment to
which he may be subject by law, he shall forfeit ten times as much
as he bas taken or received, to the party in the suit aggrieved there­ 
by; and such party shall also recover his damages sustained thereby." 
SEC. 1. Every embraceor that shall procure a person drawn or sum-
ed . tak . fi th . . f 
mon as a Juror, to e gam or pro t, contrary to e provisions o 
the last section, shall forfeit ten times the amount or value of the thing 
so taken, to the party aggrieved thereby ; and such party shall also ~
cover his damages sustained thereby. 
64 
SEC. 2. When a verdict shall have been rendered in any circuit
court, the clerk of the court shall deliver to the attorney of the party 
in whose favor such verdict was rendered, the circuit roll filed in the
cause, and a certified copy of the minutes of the trial. If the plain­ 
tiff shall have. been non-suited, such roll and minutes shall be deli­
vered to the attorney of the defendant. If any papers in the cause
shall have been filed with the clerk, he shall annex a copy thereof to
the said minutes, if required by the party to whom such minutes shall 
have been delivered. 
66 
~ 7S. In all cases where exceptions are allowed by law, on the 
trial of any cause, either party may make such exception, at the time
the decision complained of is made ; or if such exception be to the 
charge given to the jury, it shall be made before the jury shall have 
delivered their verdict. 
SEC. 4. Such exception shall be in. writing ; but the court may al­
low such time as shall be deemed reasonable, to settle and reduce the 
same to form. 
SEC. 5. If the truth of. the case be fairly stated in such exceptions,
it shall be the duty of the person or persons composing the court, 
or t.he major part of those who were present when the decision
excepted to, was made, to sign and seal such statement ; and they 
may be compelled to do so by the court to which any writ of error
may by law be brought, upon the judgment rendered in such cause, 
or which shall have authority to decide on such exceptions, when re­ 
turned to them. 
SEC. 6. If a bill of exceptions be signed in a cause, it shall not pre- 
t th f • id th di • h
ven e argument o a motion to set asi e e ver ct m sue cause, 
on the ground that such verdict was against evidence ; but such mo- 
tion shall be argued, either before or after the decision of the court on 
the bill of exceptions, as the court shall direct.
SEC. 7. It shall not be necessary for any judge who has signed a bill 
of exceptions, to appear in court to confess or deny his seal. But
such bill of exceptions shall be returned with the certificate of the
clerk of the court in which such bill was taken, under the seal of the
court of common pleas of his county, stating that such bill was signed 
by the judge or judges whose names are subscribed thereto.
SEC. 8. If such bill be taken in a court of common pleas, or mayor's 
court, it shall be filed with the clerk of the court, who shall return
the same, together with the record 'and other proceedings, in any 
cause which shall be removed by writ of error, or otherwise. 
SEC. 9. If such bill be taken in any circuit court or sittings, it shall
be filed with the clerk of such court, and shall be delivered by the 
clerk, to the attorney of the party in whose favor the verdict in the
cause shall have been rendered. 
SEC. 0. Such bill of exceptions shall be returned to the supreme 
• • 
court, at its next term, who shall proceed to Judgment thereon, and
may grant a new trial in such cause ; and such bill of exceptions, to-
gether with the judgment thereon, shall be entered in the record of the 
proceedings in the cause. 67 
SEC. 1. When an issue of fact shall have been joined in any cause,
and the plaintiff shall neglect to bring such issue to trial, according to 
the course and practice of the court, such court, on the application of
the defendant, may give the like judgment for the defendant, as in cases
of non-suit, or may, upon just terms, allow a further time for the trial 
of such issue. 
68 
SEC. 2. If further time for the trial of such issue be allowed by the
court, and the plaintiff shall neglect to try the same within the time 
so allowed, the court shall give judgment for the defendant, as in cases
of non-suit. All judgments given for a neglect to bring a cause to 
trial, shall have the like force and effect as judgments upon non-suits,
and no other; and costs shall be awarded upon such judgments, in the 
same cases as on judgments of non-suit, and in no other case. 
, SS. If a cause be not tried at any circuit court or sittings, after
issue shall have been joined therein, it shall be a sufficient continuance 
on the circuit roll, and on the record of judgment, to state the fact that
such cause was not tried, and that the process between the parties is 
continued until the circuit when such issue shall be tried, or until the
term when some judgment of the court shall be given, or some order 
be made concerning such suit. 
66 
68 
SEC. 1. General power of court to amend before judgment.
2. Ady- puty to au,rer uaeadmentl ia 1ab1tuce. 
a. RetlU'll day or certain proceN not to be uriended.
4. Formal defects may be amended after judgment. 
&. Betvn1 by oticen, &e. amended in form. 
6. Defeetl in awarding v~ on. the record.
7. Certain defect. to be di1reprded after verdict, confe11ion or default.
8. Such de(eet, to be supplied ancl amended.
9. Amendmew not to be made witboat order of court. 
SEC. 0. Thia title to e:nend to all actiom and proceedings at law. 
SEC. 1. The court in which anr action shall be pending, shall have
power to amend any process, pleading or proceeding in such action, 
either in form or substance, for the furtherance of justice, on such terms
as shall be just, at any time before judgment rendered therein. 
SEC. 2. If such amendment be made to any pleading in matter of sub-
stance, the adverse party shall be allowed an opportunity, according
to the course and practice of the court, to answer the pleading so
amended. 
SEC. 8. Process by which any action shall have been commenced, and
on which any defendant shall have been arrested, shall not be amend-
ed in the return day thereof. 
SEC. 4. After judgment rendered in any cause, any defects or imper· 
· 
fections, in matter of form, contained in the record, pleadings, process,
entries, returns or other proceedings in such cause, may be rectified 
and amended by the court, in affirmance of the judgment, so that such
judgment shall not be reversed or annulled; and any variance in the
record, from any process, pleading or proceeding had in such cause,
shall be reformed and amended, according to such original process, 
pleading or proceeding, 
69 
SEC. 5. All returne made by any sheriff or other officer, or by any court 
or subordinate tribunal, to any court, may be amended, in matter of
form, by the court to which such returns shall be made, in their dis­
cretion, as well before 88 after. judgment. 
69 
SEC. 6. Any imperfection or defect in the award of any venfre, or aDJ 
omission to award such venire on the record, may be amended or
supplied by the court in which such record is. ' 
~ 7, When a verdict shall have been rendered in any cause, the 
judgment thereon shall not be stayed; nor shall the judgment up<>D 
,such verdict, or any judgment upon confession, default, nihil ,licit or 
non sum informatua, be reversed, impaired, or in any way affected, 
by reason of the following imperfections, omissions, defects, matters
or things, or any of them, in the pleadings, process, proceedings or re­ 
cord, namely: 
\... TITLE V. 
OF AMENDING,LEAD[NGS AND PROCEEDINGS. 
1. For want of any writ, original or judicial : 
61 
s, For any default or defect in process; or for misconceiving any
process, or awarding the same to a wrong officer ; or for the want of""""' 
any suggestion for a warding process; or for any insufficient suggestion: 
a. For any imperfect or insufficient return of any sheriff or other·
officer, or that the name of such officer is not set to any return actual- 
ly made by him: 
4. For any variance between the original writ, bill, plaint and de­
claration, or between either of them: 
& • For any miapleading, miscontinwmce or discontinuance, inlufti.
eient pleading, lack of colour, jeofail or misjoining of issue: 
S:-For the want of any warrant of attorney by either party, except
in cases of judgment by confession, where such warrant is express} y 
required by law: 
7. For any party under twenty-on,e years of age having appeared
by attorney, if the verdict or judgment be for him: · 
s. For the want of any allegation or averment on account of which
omission a special demurrer could have been maintained: 
9. For omitting any allegation or averment of any matter, with­
out proving which, the jury ought not to have given such verdict: 
1 o. For any mistake in the name of any party or person ; or in any
sum of money ; or in the description of any property; or in reciting 
or stating any day, mo.11th or year, when the correct name, time, sum
or description, shall have been once rightly alleged, in any of the 
pleadings or proceedings : 
SEC. 1. For a mistake in the name of any juror or officer: 
SEC. 2. For the want of a right. venue, if the cause was tried by a jury
of the proper county: 
1 a. For any informality in entering a judgment, or making up the
record thereof, or in any continuance or other entry upon such record: 
1,. For any other default or negligence of any clerk or officer of the/
court, or of the parties, or their counsellors or attornies, by which nei- 
ther party §ball have beep prejudiced. 
60 
SEC. 8. The omissions, imperfections, defects and variances in the
preceding section enumerated, and all others of the like nature, not 
being against the right and justice of the matter of the suit, and not al-
tering the issue between the parties, or the trial, shall be supplied and 
amended by the court, where the judgment shall be given, or by the
court into which ~udl.Judg.qie_nt shall be removed by writ of error. 
SEC. 9. No process, pleading or record, shall be amended or impair-
ed b
th
k
h ffi , ,y e cler or ot er o cer of any court, or by any other person, 
• 
w.tthout the order ol such court, or of some other court of competent
authority. 
SEC. 0. The provisions of this Title shall extend to all actions in
courts of law, and to all suits for the recovery of any debt due to the 
people of this state, or for any debt, duty or revenue belonging .to 
60 
them ; and also to all actions for penalties and forfeitures; to all writs 
of mandamus and prohibition : to all informations in the nature of a
quo u:a,Tanto; to writs of acire Jacias, and to the proceedings there­ 
to. 81 
A&T. 1.-0f.the arrest of penoo1 on civil proceu. 
ART. 2.--0f the imprisonment of person, arrested oo civil pror.ea. 
ART, 3.--0f the liberties of jails, and admitting prisoners thereto. 
ART. 4.--0f escapea, and the liabilities of sheriffs therefor.
Aa.T. 5.-Proceediog• on the election or appointment of a new sheriff: 
AllT. 6.--0f the duties of 1beriffil, in the execution aod return of proceaa.
ART, 7.-Proceedings in case of resistance to the execution of process. 
ART. 8.-Provisions concerning the duties of coroners in executing civil process, in c11e1 
where sheriffs are parties. 
!!!!!!!!! 
TITLE VI. 
OF THE POWERS AND DUTIES OF SHERIFFS, CORONERS AND OTHER
OFFICERS, IN THE ARREST AND IMPRISONMENT OF PERSONS IN
CIVIL ACTIONS ; IN THE RETURN A.ND EXECUTION or PROCESS;
AND IN CERTAIN OTHER CASES. 
ART. 9.-Provision, concerning pe11on1 committed uader. the authority nf courteof tlle
United States, to jails within this state. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
Of the Arrest of Pera0ft8 on CitJil Proceu. 
SEC. 1. Sherift"1, &o. not to receiTe pay from prisoners for certain articles.
2. No reward, for keeping pri10Der1 o:it of jail, OT waiting, &c.
8. Compen..tion for lodgings, &c. out of jail.
4. Such pri1ooer may 11md for nece1urie1, &c.
5. Jailors, &c. not to reeelre rent for chambcn, or fee• (or di1cbarging, &c.
8. When 1heriJli, &c. may pu• through other couotie1.
7. Not an e1cape, and 1heri6s, &c. not liable to arrut. 
SEC. 1. When a sheriff' or other officer shall arrest any person, by vir·
tue of any mesne or final process, or by virtue of any other civil pro­ 
cess, he shall not charge such prisoner with any sum of money, or 
demand,or receive from him any sum of money, or any valuable thing, 
for any drink, victuals or other thing whatsoever, furnished or pro­
vided for such officer, or for such prisoner, at any tavern, ale-house
or public victualling or drinking-house. 
82 
SEC. 2. No sheriff or other officer, who shall have arrested any per· 
son, shall, while such person is in his custody, demand or receive
any gratuity or reward, upon any pretence whatever, for keeping such 
prisoner out of jail, or for waiting for such prisoner to find bail or 
agree with his adversary, or for waiting 1or any other purpose, 
S. If any person be arrested and kept in any house other than 
the jail of the county, neither the officer arresting him, nor the ~r·
son in whose custody such prisoner may be, shall demand or rec&1ve 
from such prisoner, any other or greater sum for lodging, drink, vie·
tuals or other necessary things, than shall have been prescribed by 
the court of general sessions of the county ; or if no rate shall have 
81 
been prescribed by such court, such officer or person shall not receive 
any other or greater sum, than shall be allowed by a justice of the
peace of the same town, upon proof that the lodgings or other things 
furnished, were so furnished at the request of such prisoner. And in
no case shall such officer or person demand or receive any pay or 
compensation for any spirituous liquors, sold or delivered to such pri-
aoner.61 
SEC. 4. A prisoner so kept in any house, may send for and have any 
beer, ale, cider, victuals and other necessary food, and such bedding,
linen, and other necessary things, as such prisoner shall think fit, 
where and ft-om whom he pleases, without any detaining or paying
for the same, or any part thereof, to the officer arresting him, or to 
the person in whose custody such prisoner may be. 
81 
SEC. 5. No sheriff, jailer or other officer, shall demand or receive any
l
bl
th
, h r-. th h be f ,
money or va ua e mg w atsoever, ror e c am r rent o any pr1- 
son, or any fees, compensation or reward, for the commitment, de-
taining in custody, release or discharge of any prisoner, other than 
such fees as are expressly allowed by law.68 
SEC. 6. A~y sheriff or other officer, who shall have arrested any pri-
soner in any county, may pass over, across and through such parts of~~r:~!.~thltf 
any other county or cotll\ties, as shall be in the ordinary route of tra-
vel from the place where such prisoner shall have been arrested, to 
the place where he is to be conveyed and delivered, according to the
command of the process by which such arrest shall have been made. 
SEC. 7. Such conveyance shall not, in any case, be deemed an es-
cape ; nor shall the prisoner so conveyed, or the officers having him 
in their custody, be liable to arrest on any civil process, while pass-
ing through such other county or counties. ea 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
Of the Imprisonment of Persons arrested on Citnl Proees«. 
SEC. 8. Pmonen on chil and criminal proceas not to be kept together.
9. Female.s not to be imprisoned in actiom on contract. 
SEC. 0. l\lalu ud female,, unle11 married, not to be kept together.
SEC. 1. Penalty for 'riolating preceding prcmsiou. 
SEC. 2. Pruentjail in New-York, continued,
SEC. 8. Exuting jaila in other countie.s continued. 
1'. When jail or contiguous county to be med. 
SEC. 5. When a.se to ceue. 
SEC. 6. Duty of sheriff' of contiguous county to reoein prisonen, &c 
SEC. 7. Rapomibility and power of such sberift'.w. 
IS. Prisonen on limit. pre'rioua to designation made. 
SEC. 9. Priaonen entitled to limit., after designation made. 
SEC. 0. Pruonen remOTed, entitled to limit.,
SEC. 1. Deaiglation of other jail, when to be revoked, &c. 
n. Proeeedmg. onreyocation.being made. 
ti. Certain room may be med by 1herift' of W uhington. 
2'. Bemonl ofpruonen to diJl'erentjaila in aame county. 
SEC. 5. Remonl in cue of fire •
•• Bemo,-al ha -.es or pestilence. 
SEC. 7. Pl8ees to which removed. to be deemed jaila. 
SEC. 8. Physician to each jail, to be appointed. 
64 
SEC. 9. Liquor aot to be told in jail; aorto be uaecl witlunat permit.
SEC. 0. When permit to be granted by phy1ician.
SEC. 1. Penalty (or bringing liq"OOr, &c. into jail, &e.
SEC. 2. Jailen, ltc. to deliTer pleadinp, ltc. to pruonen. 
SEC. 8. Prisoners arrested on civil process, shall be kept in roomi 
separate and distinct from those in which prisoners detained on a eri­
minal charge or conviction, shall be confined ; and on no pretence 
whatever, shall prisoners on civil and criminal process, be put or kept
in the same room. 
61 
SEC. 9. No female shall be imprisoned on any process in any civil
action, founded upon contract. 
SEC. 0. Male and female prisoners, unless they be husband and wife,
shall not be put, kept or confined in the same room in any prison. 
SEC. 1. Every sheriff or other officer, who shall offend against any 
of the preceding provisions of this Title, shall forfeit to the party ag· 
grieved, three times the damages found by the jury ; and shall be lia­
ble to an indictment for a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
in addition to any other punishment, shall forfeit his office or place.• 
SEC. 2. The building now used as a jail in the city of New-York,
for the confinement of persons on civil process, shall be and continue 
the jail of the city and countv of New-York, for the confinement of
such persons, and the sheriff of the city and county of New-York shall 
have the custody thereof, and of the prisoners in the same. 
SEC. 3. The buildings now used as jails and prisons in the respective
counties of this state, shall be and continue the jails of the said coun- 
ties respectively, until other buildings shall be designated or erected
for that purpose, according to law ; and the sheriffs of the said eoun- 
ties respectively, shall have the custody of such jails and prisons, and
of the persons confined in the same. ,o 
SEC. 4. If in any county there shall not be a jail, or the jail erected
shall become unfit or unsafe for the confinement of prisoners, or shall 
be destroyed by fire or otherwise, the judges of the county courts of
such county, or any three of them, shall, by an instrument in writing,
to be filed with the clerk of the county, designate the jail of &0111e con­ 
tiguous county, for the confinement of the prisoners of their cotmty, 
or for the confinement of any one or more of such prisonen, which 
shall thereupon, to all intents and purposes, except as herein other­
wise provided, become the jail of the county for which it shall ltave
been so designated, and for the purposes expressed in such instrU· 
ment.°'1 
SEC. 5. Such designation may be modified or annulled by the court 
of common pleas of the county, by whose judges the same was mad~, 
on the application of the sheriff thereof, by an order, to be entered ID 
the minutes of such C0'1rt, '71 
89 
61 
SEC. 6. A copy of such instrument of designation, duly certified by. 
the clerk of the county, under his official seal, shall be served on the
sheriff" and keeper of the jail so designated ; whose duty it shall be, 
from thence4orth, to receive into such jail, and there safely keep, all
persons who may be lawfully confined therein, pursuant to the fore- 
going provisions. 
12 
SEC. 7. Such sheriff shall be responsible for the safe keeping of the
per&oDS so committed to such jail, in the same manner and to the same 
extent, as if be were sheriff of the county for whose use such jail shall
have been designated, and with respect to the persons so committed, 
shall be deemed the sheriff of such county. "2 
SEC. 8. If any prisoners confined on civil process, shall have been 
ldmitted to the liberties of the jail of the county for which such de-
aignation shall have been made, previous to such designation, they
shall, notwithstanding, be entitled to remain within such liberties ; 
but may be removed to the jail so designated, and confined therein, 
by the sheri1f to whom they shall have given bonds for such liberties,
in the same cases, and in the same manner, as sach sheri1f might by 
law confine them in the jail of his own county. 
SEC. 9. Ir any persons shall be in the custody of the sheriff of the
county for which such designation shall have been made, subsequent 
to such designation, and shall be entitled according to law, to the li-
bertiea of the jail thereof, they shall be confined within the liberties o( 
such jail, in the same manner, and in the same cases, as if no such
designation bad been made ; but may be removed by such sheriff, to 
the jail so designated, and confined therein, in the same cases, and in 
the same manner, as such sheriff might by law confine them in the jail
of his own county. 
I IO. If any persons confined in the jail so designated, on civil 
proceea, or removed there, as herein before provided, shall by law be
entitled to the liberties of the jail, the sheriff of the county in which 
the jail so designated shall be, shall admit them to the liberties of such 
jail, in the same manner, and in the same cases, as if they had been
originally arrested by such sheriff, on process directed to him. 
SEC. 1. Whenever a jail shall be erected for the county, for whose
use such designation shall have been made, or its jail shall be render- 
ed fit and safe for the confinement of prisoners, the judges of the coun-
!Y courts of the county, or any three of them, shall, by an instrument 
lil Writing, to be filed with the clerk of the county, declare that the
nece.ity for such designation has ceased, and that the same is thereby 
revoked and annulled. "1 
SEC. 2. The clerk of the county shall immediately serve a copy of 
BUch revocation upon the sheri1f thereof, whose duty it shall be to re- 
move the prisoners belonging to his custody, and so confined without
his county, to his proper jail ; and if any prisoners shall have been 
admitted to the liberties of the jail in such other county, they shall abo
be removed, and shall be entitled to the liberties of the jail of the
c.ounty to which they shall be removed, in the same manner as if they 
had been originally arrested in such c.ounty.'" 
SEC. 8. The sheriff of the county of Washington, whenever he shall 
think proper,· may make use of one of the lower rooms in the north- 
east quarter of the court-house at Sandy-Hill, in the county of Wash· 
ington, constructed for that purpose, for the confinement of pemns on 
civil process, which shall be deemed a jail of that county, for that pur· 
pose only. "6 
SEC. 4. The sheriffs of any of the counties of this state, in which 
there are or shall be established more than one jail, may confine their 
respective prisoners in either of such jails, and may remove them from 
one jail to another within the county, whenever such sheriff shall deem 
it necessary for their safe keeping, or whenever it shall be necessary 
for their appearance at any court.76
SEC. 5. Whenever, by reason of any jail being on fire, or any build· 
ing contiguous, or near, to a jail, being on fire, there shall be reason 
to apprehend that the prisoners confined in such jail, may be injured 
or endangered by such fire, the sheriff or keeper of such jail may, in 
his discretion, remove such prisoners to some safe and convenient
place, and there confine them, so long as may be necessary to avoid
such danger ; and such removal and. confinement shall not be deenr 
ed an escape of such prisoners. 
SEC. 6. Whenever any pestilence or contagious disease shall break 
out in any jail, or in the vicinity of any jail, and the physician to such 
jail shall certify that such pestilence or disease is likely to endanger
the health of the prisoners confined in such jail, any two judges of the 
county courts of the county in which such jail is situated, or in the 
city and county of New-York, the mayor or-recorder, and any alder·
man of that city, and in the city and county of Albany, the mayor or 
recorder, and any alderman of the city of Albany, shall, in writing,
designate some safe and convenient place within such county, or the 
jail of some contiguous county, as a place of confinement for such pri­ 
soners ; which designation shall be filed in the office of the clerk of 
the county ; and shall authorise the sh:riff to remove such prisoners
to the place or jail so designated, and there confine them, until they 
can be safely returned to the jail from which they were taken. 
SEC. 7. Any place to which the prisoners in any J. ail shall be remov·
f th 
ed, pursuant to the preceding provisions, shall, during the time o e 
c.onfinement of such prisoners therein, be deemed the jail of the coun· 
ty. 
SEC. 8. The boards of supervisors of the several counties of this
state, shall, within one year after this Title takes effect as a law, ap- 
point some reputable physician duly authorised to practise physic, to
be physician to the jail of their respective counties ; and in case there 
is more than one jail in any county, a physician tp each jail ; and the
common council of the city of New-York, shall, within the same time, 
appoint a similar physician to the jail of the said city and county.:
such physicians shall hold their offices during the pleasure of the board
appointing them.77 
SEC. 9. No spirituous liquor shall, on any pretence whatever, be
sold within any building used and established as a jail; nor shall any 
kind of spirituous, fermented or other liquor, except cider and that
quality of beer called table-beer, be brought into any jail for the use 
of any person confined therein, without a written permit by the phy-
sician to such jail, which shall be delivered to and kept by the keep- 
er thereof, specifying the quantity and quality of the liquor which may
be furnished to any prisoner, the name of the prisoner for whom, and 
the time when the same may be furnished. '78 
~ SO. No such permit shall be granted, unless it shall satisfactorily
h
h 
' ' h h J' 11 d be fu 'sh d '
appear to sue p ysictan, t at t e 1quor a owe to rm e , is 
absolutely necessary for the health of the prisoner for whose use it is
permitted; which shall be specificaUy stated in such permit. 
~ SI. Every person who shall sell or bring into any jail, any spirit- 
l'! ed th l' h fc ' , •
uous, ferment or o er 1quor, contrary to t e oregomg provisions, 
and every sheriff, keeper of a jail, assistant to such keeper, or other of-
ficer employed in or about any jail, who shall knowingly suffer any
spirituous or other liquor to be sold or used in a jail, contrary to the
foregoing provisions, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and 
on conviction thereof, shall be subject to imprisonment not exceeding
one year, or to a fine not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, or
both, in the discretion of the court ; and every sheriff or other officer 
80 convicted, shall forfeit his office. '79 
SEC. 2. Every sheriff or jailer upon whom a declaration, notice, or
any other proceeding directed to any prisoner in his custody, shall be
se"ed, shall, within five days thereafter, deliver the same to such 
prisoner, with a note thereon of the time of the service thereof upon
such sheriff or jailer ; and for every neglect or violation of this sec- 
tion, the sheriff or jailer guilty thereof, shall be liable to such prison-
er for all damages occasioned thereby. 
80 
ARTICLE THIRD. 
Of the Libertiu of .Taila, and admitting Priaonwa thereto. 
SEC. 3. Existing liberties of ja.il,, to remain.
&&. Bow eatabli1hed in countie1 hereafter erected.
SEC. 5. When and how altered by COUIU of common pleu. 
SEC. 6. Libertie.1 bow to be entered and duignated. 
Sac. S,. New h'be.rti• to be utlibliabecl ia N~ York.
SEC. 8. Deacriptiou of liberties to be furailhed jailen. 
SEC. 9. Jailel'I to exha"bit 1uch dacriptiom, &c.
fO, Who entitled to li'bertiel of jail,. 
SEC. 1. BoDd to be givea, ita peoalty. 
a. CoDdition of bond. 
& For whoee indemnity boncl to 'f>e held. 
4'. Wbea penon may be recommitted to prilOL 
SEC. 5. Saretiea in boad, may l1ll'l'ellcler their priDcipu.
SEC. 8. How aoch aurrender to be made.
ff. What to be eecape or penm gi'ring bond; wllat aot eecape.
SEC. 8. Defeaee to amt OD bond by IMrift', for eacape.
SEC. 9. But concluded in eertaiD cue, by juclgmut agaiut ~. 
CIO. ~ea jadgmeat to be nndend alUDIDU'ily for aberil'.
SEC. 1. Proceediap to •title bim to auela jladgmat.
SEC. 2. When proceeitiDga tbereoll to be aupeadecl. 
a Wun juclglleat to be noated, &o. 
CM. ErideDte of aberiJl"a damagee: hu com ud expemea.
M. Bmd wtleD to be asaipecl to plaiatif" or lw repruentatiYU.
N, AceiOD thenoa; damagee to be reooftnd. 
rn. Accep4a11Ce of uaipment, to bu aotiaD ..-,t aberil'. 
SEC. 8. Defence in action by uaipee ol band. 
18, Prooeediap OD judgment apimt lberif', W'M8 atayed. 
eo. Nat to utftcl to nluatar;r ....... 
~ SS. The liberties of the jaila oC the city and county of New-York, 
of the city and county of Albany, and of the several counties ef this
state, as the same have already been established according to law, by
the courts of common pleas of the said counties, and of the mid citieS
and counties respectively, or otherwise, shall be and remain the liber­
ties thereof. 
81 
SEC. 4. Wherever such liberties have not been established, and in
counties hereafter erected, the court of common pleas of such coWliy 
shall appoint and designate a reasonable space of ground adjacent to
the jail or jails of such county, to be denominated the liberties thereof, 
as follows: 
1. Such liberties shall be laid out in a square or parallelogram, as 
near as may be ; but any stream of water, canal or highway, may be
adopted as an exterior line, notwithstanding the same may not be ~ a
straight line, or may not be at right angles with · the other exterior
lines of such liberties : 
2. They shall not exceed five hundred acres in extent: .
a. A minute description of the boundaries of such liberties and their 
extent, shall be entered on the minutes of the court : 
4. The boundaries and limits of such liberties, shall be designated
by monuments, or enclosures, or posts, or other visible and perma· 
nent marks, at the expense of the county.81 
SEC. 5. The liberties of the jails in any county of this state, may be
altered by the court of common pleas of such county, in their disc~ 
tion, not oftener than once in three years, subject to the same restr1c·
tions as are prescribed in the last section, in respect to the forID and 
extent of such limits. · But in cases where the jail liberties in any 
county shall have been fixed by any statute of this state, no altera· 
lion shall be made by which any part of the present jail liberties of
such county, shall not be included within the liberties as altere<l.83 
SEC. 6. Such alterations shall be entered in the minutes of the court 
SEC. 8. A copy of the minutes of the court of common pleas, estab- 
•:-L: th libe . f . ·1 d f h . aki b 
uawng e 1 rties o any Jal , an o t e minutes m mg su sequent
alterations, shall be made and certified by the clerk of the county, and 
be by him delivered to the keeper of such jail, within six months af- 
ter this Title shall take effect as a law; and certified copies of any
original establishment of liberties, and of all alterations which shall be
made in the liberties of any jail, shall, immediately after the entry of 
the same in the minutes of the court, be made out and delivered to 
the keeper of such jail. 
SEC. 9. The keeper of every jail to whom such certified copies shall 
be delivered, shall keep the same exposed to public view in some
<,pen and public part of such jail ; and it shall be the duty of such jail- 
ff to exhibit the same to every person who shall be admitted to the
liberties of such jail, at the time of his executing the bonds for that 
purpose herein after prescribed.
SEC. 0. Every person who shall be in the custody of the sheriff of 
b
. 
any county, y virtue, . ' 
r, Ohny capiu a4 rupondendum : or, 
2. Of any execution in a civil action: or,
a. By virtue of any attachment for _the non-payment of costs in a 
eivil action: or,
•· In consequence of a surrender in exoneration of his bail : 
Shall be entitled to be admitted to the liberties of the jail which
mall have been established in such county according to law, upon 
executing a bond to such sheriff and his assigns, as prescribed in the 
next section. 
84 
• • , • • 
and the boundaries and limits of the liberties, as altered, shall be de-
signated, under the order of the court, in the same manner .as herein
before directed in respect to the original designation thereof. 
SEC. 7. The liberties of the jail of the city and county of New-York,~~" 
shall be established anew by the court of common pleas of said city 
and county, within three months after this Chapter shall take effect
u a law. Such liberties shall not comprehend a larger space than
one thousand acres, and in the designation thereof, the provisions of
the thirty-fourth section of this Article shall be observed, except as 
to the extent of such limits. 
tht. Such bond shall be executed by the prisoner, and one or
more sufficient sureties, being inhabitants and householders of the 
county, in a penalty which shall be as follows : 
1. It shall be not less than double the amount of the sum in which 
the sheriff was required to hold the defendant to bail, if he be in cus­
tody OD t'1MJIM process, or be surrendered in exoneration of bis bail
before judgment docketed against him : 
2. It shall be not leu than double the amount directed to be levied
by the execution or attachment, if be be in custody upon attachment
or execution : 
a. It shall be not less than double the amount for which judgment
shall have been rendered against him, if he be surrendered after judg· 
ment docketed. ea 
~ 4!. Such bond -shall be conditioned, that the person so in custo-
dy of such sheritf, shall remain a true and faithful prisoner, and shall
not, at any time, or in any manner, eac~pe _or go without the limits 
and boundaries of the liberties established for the jail of such county,
until discharged by due course of law.81 
SEC. 8. Every such bond taken for the liberties of any jail, shall be
valid, and shall be held for the indemnity of the sheriff taking the
same, and of the party at whose suit the prisoner executing such bond
shall be confined. 
86 
SEC. 4. If a sheriff who shall have taken any such bond for the ti.
berties of any jail, shall discover that any surety to such bond is in­ 
sufficient, he may commit the prisoner who executed the same, to
close confinement in such jail, until other good and sufficient sureties
shall be offered. 
86 
SEC. 5. The 11ureties in any bond given for the liberties of any jail,
may surrender their principal at any time before judgment &ball be 
rendered against them on such bond; but such bail ahall not be ex· 
onerated thereby from any liability incurred before the making such 
surrender. 
SEC. 6. Such surrender may be made as follows : the bail may take
their principal to the keeper of the jail, and upon the written require­
ment of such bail, the keeper shall take such principal into his eusto­ 
dy, aop,..thereupon endorse upon the bond given for the limits, an ac­
knowleclgment of the surrender of such principal ; and such keeper
shall also, if required, give the bail a certificate acknowledging such
surrender. · 
SEC. 7. The going at 
1large
of any prisoner who ahall have executed 
f
such bond, or of any prisoner who would 'be entitled to the liberties o 
any jail upon executing such bond, within the limits of the liberties
of lhe jail of the county in which he shall be in custody, shall not be
deemed an escape · of such prisoner ; but in case any such prisoner 
shall go at large without the liberties· of such county, without the as·
sent of the party at whose suit such prisoner shall be in custody, the 
----- 
same ~all be 'deemed an ~scape and forfeiture of the bond so e.ic-
cuted ; and the sheriff in whose custody such prisoner shall have been,
shall have the same authority to pursue and retake such prisoner, as 
if such escape had been made from the jail. 
SEC. 8. In every suit brought by a sheriff on such bond, the defen-
dants may plead a voluntary return of the prisoner to the jail from 
which he escaped, or the liberties thereof, or a recaption of such pri­
soner by the sheriff from whose custody he escaped, before the com­ 
mencement of such suit, and may give evidence thereof in bar of such 
action ; and such defendants shall be entitled to make such or any 
other defence to such suit, which might be made by such sheriff, to an 
action against him for such escape. 
fo 
SEC. 9. But if an action shall have been brought against such Rheri[Etrtiet 
h d
d
, th ha h bee • 
r sue escape, au ue notice ereof s ll ave n given to the 
prisoner and his sureties who executed the bond for the jail liberties, 
the judgment against such sheriff shall be conclusive evidence of his 
right to recover against such prisoner and his sureties, to whom such 
notice was given, in the action on such bond, as to all matters which
were or might have been controverted in the action against the 
sheriff. 
SEC. 0. In every such action brought by a sheriff on a bond executed 
for the jail liberties, if it shall appear to the court that judgment has
been rendered against such sheriff for the escape of the prisoner, and 
that due notice of the peridency of the action against the sheriff was 
gil"ell to such prisoner and his sureties, tb enable them to defend the 
same, such court shall render judgment in the &Ht upon such bond, 
at the same term in which the writ by which aucll actjoo shall be 
commenced, shall be returned served.
SEC. 1. But to entitle any sheriff to move for such judgment, hePnmoman­ 
aball have filed his declaration, and shall show to the court that he 
had gi~en tw.ent.y days' notice of such motion.
SEC. 2. If it shall appear on the hearing of such motion, that the de- 
fendants have any meritorious cause of defence, which was not con- 
troverted in the action against the sheriff, and which by law could 
Dot have been so controverted, the court shall suspend proceedings
on such judgment, until -a trial in such action be had; but suohjudg- 
lDent shall remain as a security for the sheriff: 
SEC. 8. If such defence be established, the court shall vacate such 
' d • 
JU gtnent, and render judgment as m other cases. 
SEC. 4. In every action brought by a sheriff on such bond, the re- 
eovery of a judgment against him for the escape of the prisoner, shall 
~ evidence of the damages sustained by him, in the same manner as 
if such judgment had been collected ; and such sheriff shall be en- 
titled to recover the costs, and his reaaonable expenses in defending
the suit against him, as part of his damages. 
86 
SEC. 5. If any such bond shall be forfeited, the party at whose suit
the prisoner executing the same shall have been confined, or in case 
of his death, the executors or administrators of such party, shall be
entitled to an assignment thereof, which shall be made by the aherilf
taking the same, or in case of a vacancy in his office, by his tmder·
sheriff, by an endorsement on such bond, executed in the pre&enee of 
one or more witnesses. 
8' 
SEC. 6. The party to whom such assignment shall have been madt,
may maintain an action on such bond, as assignee of the sheriff tak· 
ing the same, in the same cases in which such action might be main­ 
tained by such sheriff; and upon obtaining judgment therein, be shall
recover damages for such breaches of the condition as shall have been 
assigned· by him, as follows : 
1. If the prisoner escaping was confined by virtue of an execution,
or by virtue of an attachment for non-payment of costs, the measure
of the plaintiff's damages shall be, the amount directed to be levied 
by such execution or attachment, with interest thereon to the time of
such recovery : 
2. If such prisoner was confined by virtue of a capitu al rupott­ 
dendum, or upon a surrender in exoneration of his bail, made re­ 
fore or after judgment rendered against him, the plaintiff' .shall recover 
only the actual damages sustained by him. 8'7 
SEC. 7. The acceptance of an assignment of any such bond, shall 
be a bar to any action by or on behalf of the party receiving such as-
signment, against the sheriff or other officer making the same, for any 
escape by the prisoner executing such bond, amounting to a breach 
of such bond, 8'7 
SEC. 8. In every action brought by the assignee of such bend, tile 
defendants shall be entitled to plead a voluntary retum of the prisoner
to the liberties of the jail, before the commencement of such action, io
bar thereof, and to make any defence which they would be entitled
to make, if such action had been brought in the name and for the bene­
fit of the sheriff to whom such bond was executed. 
SEC. 9. In case the party at whose suit any person shall baYe been
confined to the liberties of a jail, shall ref use or neglect to take an as­ 
signment of the bond executed by such person, as herein before pro­ 
vided, and shall prosecute any sheriff for the escape of such person, 
the court in which such action shall be pending, shall, by rule, stay 
ell proceedings upon the judgment against such sheri.tr, until he shall
have had a reasonable time to prosecute the bond taken by him, and to 
collect the amount of any judgment he may recO\~er thereon. 
88 
SEC. 0. But the last preceding section shall not extend to authorise
such stay of proceedings, in any action where the judgment shall have
been recovered against any sheriff, for any escape committed with 
the assent, aid or assistance of such sheriff: 
ARTICLE FOURTH. 
89 
OJ Escape,, and the Liabilities of Sheriffs therefor. 
SEC. 1. Certain priaooen to be cloaely confined.
SEC. 2. Other priaonen being without liberties, an Heape,
6S. lb. and amoant or damage• in certain cuee.
SL Defence by slaeritr to action for eacape1.
SEC. 6. Penalty on aheriJI' receiving reward for escape, &c. 
SEC. 1. All prisoners committed to any jail upon process for con-
• ed I.'. • nd . th 'bed b I 
tempt, or committ ror rmsco uct m e cases prescn y aw, 
. 
except on attachments for the non-payment of costs, shall be actually
confined and detained within such jail, until they shall be from thence 
discharged by due course of law, or shall be removed to some other
jail or place of confinement, in the cases provided by law ; and if any 
sheriff or keeper of a jail, shall permit or suffer any prisoner so com-
'( mitted to such jail, to go or be at large out of his prison, except by 
virtue of some writ of habeas corpus, or rule of court, or in such oth­
er cases as may be provided by law, be shall be liable to the party ag­
grieved, for his damages sustained thereby, and shall be deemed guilty 
of a misdemeanor. 
90 
~ H. If any prisoner committed to any jail, by virtue of any capia, 
~ . 
""' rupondmdvm, or other mune process, or upon a surrender m ex-
oneration of bis bail, made either before or after judgment rendered, 
sbalf go or be at large without the limits and boundaries of the liber-
ties of such jail, without the assent of the party at whose suit such pri-
soner shall have been committed, the same shall be deemed an escape
of such prisoner, and the sheriff having charge of such jail shall be an-
swenable therefor to such party, in an action of trespass on the case, to
the extent of the damages sustained by him. 
00
-- . 
SEC. 8. If any prisoner committed to any jail, in execution in a civil
action, or upon an attachment for the non-payment of costs, shall go
or be at large without the boundaries of the liberties of such jail, with­ 
out the assent of theparty at whose suit such prisoner was committed, 
the aame shall be deemed an escape of such prisoner, and the sheriff
having charge of such jail, shall be answerable therefor to such party, 
for the debt, damages or sum of money for which such prisoner was
cormnitted, to be recovered by an action of debt. 
90 
SEC. 4. In every action against a sheriff or other officer, for the es- 
cape of any prisoner, the defendant may plead or give notice, that before 
----------~~~~- 
the commencement of such action, such prisoner voluntarily returned
to the jail from which he had escaped, or to the liberties thereof; or 
defendant retook such prisoner, and had him within the j111
from which he escaped, or within the liberties thereof, before the com­ 
mencement of such action; and in either case, that such escape wu 
made without the consent of such defendanL 
91 
SEC. 5. Every sheriff or other officer, who shall demand or receive 
any reward, gratuity or valuable thing, to procure, assist, conmve at
or permit, any escape of any prisoner in his custody, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. 
92 
SEC. 6. Every sheriff or other officer, who shall be convicted of a vio-
lation of the last section, shall forfeit his office, and be forever there­
after incapable of executing the same. 
92 
4&TICL.li1 FIPTB. 
Pr~nga on t1a.e Elecffon or Appowment of a nao 81,,mff. 
Sze. ff'I. Certificate of new aherift'bariag qualified, &c. to be giTen, 
SEC. 8. &.nice thenof ea Conper 1beril', to sqpercede hia powers. 
SEC. 9. Thinp to be delinred by him to hi, IUCCUlor.
SEC. 0. Statement of article• delivered, how signed and receipted, &c. 
71, Power of former Iberia" de&.ed.
SEC. 2. When capial to be delinred to new aberi1F, &e.
SEC. 8. How delivery of jail, &c. may be compelled. 
SEC. 4. Proceedings if otice of former lberil' be noMt •
SEC. 7. When any new sheriff' shall be elected or appointed in tlJe 
place of any other, or upon the expiration of the term of any sherifl"s
office, and shall have qualified and given the security required by law, 
the clerk of the county shall grant a certificate, under bis official seal,
that the person so appointed or elected, has qualified and givea auch 
security. 
SEC. 8. Upon the service of such certificate on the fonner shefflf, 
his power! as such shPriff, except when otherwise expressly provided 
by law, shall cease. 
SEC. 9. Within ten days after the service of such certificate upon
such former sheriff, he shall deliver to his successor, 
1. The jail, or jails if there be more than one, of the county, with
all their appurtenances, and the property of the county therein : 
2. All the prisoners then confined in such jail : 
3. All process, orders, rules, commitments, and all other papers or 
documents in his custody, authorising, or relating to the confinement
of such prisoners ; and if any such process shall have been returned,
a statement, in writing, of the contents thereof, and when returned : 
4. All writs of capias ad respondendum and other mune pro­
cess, and all precepts and other documents for the summoning of a
grand or a petit jury then in his hands, which shall not have been ful­ 
ly executed by him : 
6. All executions, attachments and final process, then in his hands,
except such as the said former sheriff shall have ex,eouted, or shall 
• 
have begun to execute, by the collection of money thereon, or by a
levy on property, in pursuance thereof. 
~ 70.. At the time of such delivery, the said former shefitf shall
. . . th d and 
execute an instrument recumg e property, process, ocuments 
priaoners delivered, specifying particularly the process or other au-
thority by which each prisoner was committed, and is detained, and 
whether the same be returned or delivered to such new sheriff; which
instrument shall be delivered to such new sheriff, who shall acknow- 
ledge, in writing upon a duplicate thereof, the receipt of the proper-
ty, process, documents and prisoners therein specified, and shall de-
liver such duplicate and acknowledgment to the said former sheriff. 
SEC. 1. Notwithstanding the election or appointment of a new she-
riff, the former sheriff shall return in his own name all writs of capiaa 
ad rupoadendum, all other mum process, all attachments and all
executions, which he shall have fully executed, and shall proceed and
complete the execution of all final process and attachments which he 
shall have begun to execute, by a collection of money thereon, or by
a levy on property in pursuance thereof. 
SEC. 2. When a sheriff shall have arrested any person upon a capiaa 
ad rupondendum, by virtue of which, such person shall be confined
either in jail or on the liberties thereof, at the time of assigning and
delivering such jail to the new sheriff, if such capia& be not then re­
turnable, the same shall be delivered to the new sheriff, and shall be. 
returned by him at the return day thereof, with the proceedings of the
i>rmer and of the new sheriff thereon. 
SEC. 8. If any former sheriff shall neglect or refuse to deliver to his
successor, the jail, process, documents and prisoners in his charge, as 
herein required, such successor, may notwithstanding take possession
of such jail, and take the custody of the prisoners therein confined, and 
may compel the delivery of such process and documents, in the man-
ner prescribed in Article fifth of the sixth Title of Chapter fifth of the 
First Part of the Revised Statutes.
SEC. 4. If at the time when any new sheriff shall have qualified and 
given the security required by law, the office of the former sheriff' shall 
be executed by his under-eheriff, or by a coroner of the county, or by 
any other person specially authorised for that purpose, such under-
sberiff, coroner or other person, shall in all things comply with the 
preceding provisions, and shall perform the duties required of such
former sheriff". 
A.BTICLE SIXTH. 
Of tu Dutiu of Sheri.ff,, in the E:tecution and Relum of
Procua. 
&sc. 7&. 8beri6 to giye receipt, for proceu. 
SEC. 8. Copy oC proceN eened to be delinnd to de!eadant. 
SH, "l"I. Liability or aberiff'for not returniag procee,.
SEC. 8. Otlices at which certain proce11 to be reta.metl by ahem&.
SEC. 9. Betlll'lll to other oflicea, not to u:cuae aberi6a. 
SEC. 5. When process of any description shall be delivered to a she-
riff to be executed, he shall give to the person delivering the same, if 
required by him, and on payment of the fee allowed by law, a minute
in writing signed by such sheriff, specifying the names of the parties
in such process, the general nature thereof, and the day of receiving
the same.91 
SEC. 6. Every sheriff or other officer serving process, shall, upon the 
f h d d 'th h • • •
request o t e party serve , an WJ out c argmg or rece1vmg any 
compensation therefor, deliver to such party a copy thereo.f.91 
SEC. 7. Every sheriff' or other officer, to whom any process shall be 
delivered, shall execute the same according to the command thereof,
and shall make due return of bis proceedings thereon, which return 
shall be signed by him. For any violation of this provision, such
sheriff or other officer shall be liable to an action at the suit of any
party aggrieved, for the damages sustained by him, in addition to any 
other fine, punishment or proceeding, which may be authorised by 
law.91 ' 
SEC. 8. All process issued out of the supreme court, except attach­
ments and writs of habeaa corpw,, shall be returned by. the several 
sheriffs, coroners, and other officers to whom the same may have been
delivered, as follows : 
1. By the sheriffs and other officers of the several counties com­
posing the first senate district, and of the several counties composing
the second senate district, except the county of Delaware, to the office 
of the clerk of the supreme court in the city of New-York : · 
2. By the sheriffs and other officers of the county of Delaware, and
of the several counties composing the third senate district, and oftbe
several counties composing the fourth senate district, except the coun­
ty of St. Lawrence, to the office of the clerk of the said court in the 
city of Albany : · 
s. By the sheriffs and other officers of the county of St. Lawrence,
and of the several counties composing the fiftl1, sixth, seventh and
eighth senate districts, to the office of the clerk of the said court in tbe 
town of Utica. H 
SEC. 9. No return of any such process made to any other office than 
that required in the last section, shall excuse any sheriff or other offi­
cer from the liabilities, penalties, fines, or proceedings prescribed by
law, or by the rules and practice of the supreme court, for a neglect
to make a return according to law.94 
A.BTIOLE 8.EVU'l'II. 
Proceedings in case of Resistance to the Execution of Procu,. 
SEC. 0. When and !or what purpose power o! the county may be raised.
SEC. 1. Namu ofre1ietento be certified to court; their pui1hmebt.
SEC. 2. Penalty for refuaing, &:c. to obey ,hemF. 
SS. When goYemor to order force from other COUDtie,. 
SEC. 0. Whenever a sheriff or other public officer authorised to exe-
cute any process delivered to him, shall find or have reason to appre- 
bend that resistance will be made to the execution of such process, he 
shall be authorised to command every male inhabitant of his county,
or as many as he shall think proper, to assist him in overcoming such 
resistance, and if necessary, in seizing, arresting and confining the
resisters, their aiders and abettors, to be dealt with according to law. 
SEC. 1. Such sheriff or other officer shall certify to the court from
which such process issued, the names of the resisters, their aiders and 
abettors, to the end that they may be proceeded against, for their con- 
tempt of such court. 
95 
SEC. 2. Every person commanded by a sheriff" or other officer, to as-le11ua110 
sist him in the execution of process as herein provided, who shall re-
fuse, or without lawful cause, neglect to obey such command, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject to fine and imprison- 
ment. 
SEC. 3. In case it shall appear to the governor, that the power of any
county will_ not be sufficient to enable the sheriff thereof to execute 
process delivered to him, he shall, on the application of such sheriff,
order such a military force from any other county or counties of this 
state, as shall be necessary.
ABTIOLB EIGHTH. 
Pr0f1iaions concerning tAe Dutka of Coroner, in executins Civil 
Process, in cases where Sheriffs are Partiea. 
Ssc. Si. Coronen to exeeute proce11 in 1ait. where 1herift" is party. 
SEC. 6. One coroner may execute.
SEC. 6. Proceedingl OD anut or a sheriff". 
SEC. 8. Sheri61 how to be imprisoned OD arrest.
SEC. 9. Coroner liable !or escape or sheriff'.
SEC. 0. Sheriff" entitled to libertie1 or jail, &:c. 
SEC. 1. Proceeclinp OD bond (or libertie,.
9'L Imprisoning penon1 arre1ted at sheriff's suit.
SEC. 9. How kept; when to be discharged on giTing bail bond. 
SEC. 4. Bolldl for libertie1, how giYen by them.
SEC. 6. Liability of coroner !or e1capu from libertie,. 
SEC. 4. Whenever the sheriff of any county shall be a party in any
suit, all process in such suit, except when otherwise provided by law, 
shall be executed by the coroner of the county to whom the same
shall be delivered, in the same manner in all respects, subject to the
same obligations and liabilities, and with the like authority and en- 
titled to the same privileges, as are prescribed by law in respect to
sheriffs, except in C88{'8 otherwise specially provided for. 
SEC. 5. When process shall be directed to the coroners of a county
generally, the 881Jl(\ may be executed, and a return thereto may be 
made and signed by any one of such coroners ; but such act or return
shall in no degree prejudice the other coroners not participating there- 
m. 
91 
SEC. 6. If process for arresting the sher i1f of the county, be deliver­
ed to a coroner, he shall execute the same in the manner prescribed
by law in respect to the execution of similar process by sheriffs; and
shall be authorised to take a bond on the arrest, or a bond for the jail 
liberties, to himae~ by the name of his office, in the same cases, and 
in the same manner, in which a sheriff' would be authorised to take the
same; which bonds shall have the like effect, and be subject to the same
provisions, as bonds taken in like cases by sheriffs ; and the proceed­
ings, rights and liabilities thereon, shall be the same in all respects. 
SEC. 7. If a sheriff, on being arrested by a coroner on civil process,
requiring him to be held to bail, shall refuse or neglect to give the 
bond required by law to entitle him to be discharged ; or if a sheriff'
shall be arrested on execution against his body, or on attachment ; he 
shall be confined by the coroner, in some house situated within the Ii·
berties of the jail of the county, other than the house of such sheruf,
or the jail of such county, in the same manner as sheriffs are required
by law to confine prisoners in the jails of their counties respectively. 
SEC. 8. Such house shall thereupon become the jail of the county, 
for the use of such coroner, and all laws relating to the jails of ecun­ 
ties, shall be applicable to the same, while such sheriff shall be con· 
fined therein.
SEC. 9. For any escape of such sheriff from such house, the coroner 
shall be liable, in the same manner and to the same extent, as sheriff's
for the escape of their prisoners, and may plead and give in evidence
the same matters allowed to sheriffs in similar actions. 
SEC. 0. A sheriff so confined shall be admitted to the liberties of the
jail of the county, established for other prisoners, in the same cases, 
and upon executing the like bond to the coroner in whose custody he
shall be, as provided in other cases. · For any escape of such sheriff
from such liberties, the coroner shall be liable, in the same manner, 
and to the same extent, as sheriffs for similar escapes, and may plead 
and give in evidence the same matters allowed by law to sheriffs.
SEC. 1. The coroner may prosecute any such bond taken by him, 
and shall be entitled and subject to all the provisions of law, in re­
spect to similar bonds taken by sheriffs ; and such bonds may be as­ 
signed by him to the party at whose suit such sheriff shall have been 
arrested, and the same prece,dings s-11 he laad thereon, in all re- 
spects, as on bonds taken and assigned by sheriffs in similar cases. ~ 
I 9!. If any person be arrested by a coroner on process issued in a '.\"Jaei:e1~riir
suit in which the sheriff of the county is a plaintiff, he shall be commit- .. 
ted to the common jail of the county, in cases where a commitment is
required by law ; but such coroner shall not be liable for any e.,cape 
of such prisoner from such jail, after he shall have been committed 
thereto. 
! 9S. Such prisoner, when so committed, shall be kept, in all re-
spects, as other prisoners committed on civil process, and shall be en- 
titled to be discharged, if he be committed on me.me process, on exe- 
cuting a bond to the coroner, in the same manner, and in the same
cases, in which such bond is required to he given to a sheriff, which 
llball have the like effect, and be proceeded on in the same manner, in
all respects. 
SEC. 4. Such prisoner shaJl be entitled to the liberties of the jail, in
the same cases as other prisoners, on executing to the coroner a bond, 
in all respects similar to that required to be given to sheriffs, which 
shall have the like effect, and shalJ be assigned and proceeded on in 
the same manner. 
SEC. 5. For any escape of such prisoner from such liberties, the co-
roner shall be answerable, in the same manner, and to the same ex-1
tent, u sheriffs for similar escapes, and may plead and give in evi- 
dence the same matters. 
A.BTIOLE NINTH. 
Protnliona eot1Cmaing Persona committed under tv .Authmity
of Covru oJ tlae UnUetl Statu, to Jaila toU1'n thu State. 
SEC. 8. SberUF, to reeein and keep pri1onen under proees1 of U. 8, court,. 
SEC. 7. Liabi1itJ of llaerift'a '1r .,.. keeping 111cb pri10Den. 
SEC. 6. It shall be duty of the sheriffs of the several cities and coun-
ties of this state, to receive into their respective jails, and keep all 
prisoners who shall be committed to the same, by virtue of any civil 
process issued by any court of record, instituted under the authority of 
lhe United States of America, until they shall be discharged by the
due eourse of the laws of the United States, in the same manner as if 
such prisoners had been committed by virtue of process in civil ac-
lions, issued under the authority of this state ; and every such sheriff 
may receive, to his own use, such sums of money as shall be payable
by the United States, for the use of the said jails. 
SEC. 7. Every sheriff" or keeper of a prison, to whose jail any prisoner
shall be committed, by any marshal or other officer of the United::~~· 
States, as provided in the last section, shall be answerable for the safe 
keeping of such prisoner, in the courts of the United States, accord-
ing to the laws thereof. . 
OHAP. VIII. 
Of Proceedings in Special Cases. 
TITLE 1.-0f the bringing and maintaining of suits by poor persons. 
TITLE 2.-Proceedings by and against infants. 
TITLE 3.-0f suits by and against executors and administraton, and
against heirs, devisees and legatees. 
TtTU: 4.-0f proceedings by and against corporations, and public be­ 
dies having certain corporate powers, and by and against 
officers representing them. 
TITLE 6.-0f suits against sheriff's, surrogates and other officers, on
their official bonds. 
TITLE 6.-0f actions for penalties and forfeitures ; and provisions for 
the collection and remission of forfeited recognizances,
and fines imposed by courts. 
TITLE 7 .-Of proceedings for the admeasurement of dower. 
TITL& 8.-0f proceedings for the collection of demands agaimt ships
and vessels. 
T1TLE 9.-0f proceedings for the recovery of rent and of demised pre·
mises. 
TITLE 10.-Summary proceedings to recover the possession of land in
certain cases. 
T1TLE 11.-0f distraining cattle and other chattels doing damage, and of 
distraioing in other cases. 
TITLE 12.-0fthe action of replevio. 
TITLE 13.-0f proceedings, as for contempts, to enforce civil remedies,
and to protect the rights of parties in civil actions. 
TITLE 14.--0f arbitrations. 
TITLE 16.--0f the foreclosure of mortgages by advertisement. 
TITLE 16.-0f proceedings for the draiaiog of swamps, manhes, and
other low lands. 
TITLE 17.-General miscellaneous provi&iooa concerning suits and pro·
ceedings in civil cases. 
!!!!!!!!!!!! 
TITLE I. 
OF THE BRINGING AND MAINTAINING OF SUITS BY POOR PERSONS,
SEC. 1. Who may petition to prosecute u a poor penon. 
2. Content. of petition; certificate of eounsel to be annexed. 
a. When court to a11ign coanael, &c.
4. On being admitted, to proaeeute without liability for coetl, l:c. 
6. When court may annul admi11ion to proaecute. 
6. Thia Title enended to 1uit1 in equity. 
SEC. 1. Every poor person, not being of ability to sue, who 
shall have a cause of action against any other, may petition the court 
in which such action is depending, or in which it is intended to be
brought, for leave to prosecute as a poor person, and to have counsel 
and attorneys assigned to conduct hi, suit.1 
SEC. 2. Such petition shall state, 
1. The nature of the suit brought, or intended to be brought: 
2. That the applicant is not worth twenty dollars, excepting the
wearing apparel and furniture, necessary for himself and his family, 
and excepting the subject matter of the action, when not in possession
thereof: 
And shall be verified by his own affidavit, and supported by acer-
tificate of a counsellor of the court, that he has examined the claim, 
and is of opinion that such poor person has a good cause of action. 
~ S. The court to which such petition shall be presented, if satis-
fied of the facts alleged, and that the applicant has a meritorious cause 
of action, shall by rule admit him to prosecute as a poor person, and 
shall assign to him counsel, solicitors, attorneys and all other officers 
requisite for prosecuting his suit, who shall do their duty therein with- 
out taking any reward for the same.2 
SEC. 4. Every person so admitted, may prosecute his suit without 
• r. ffi . , f , . d h II 
paying any rees to any o cers or ministers o justice ; an s a not 
be prevented from prosecuting the same, by reason of his being liable
for the costs of any former suit brought by him against the same de- 
fendant; and if he be non-suited, or a verdict or judgment be given
against him, or his bill be dismissed, or a decree be rendered against 
him, he shall not be liable for any costs in such suit.2 
SEC. 5. If the perso~ so prosecuting, be guilty of any improper con- 
duct in the prosecution of his suit, or of any wilful or unnecessary de- 
lay, the court may, in its discretion, annul the order admitting him to
prosecute as a poor person; and he shall thereafter be deprived of all 
the privileges conferred by such order. 
SEC. 6. The provisions of this Title shall apply to suits in courts of 
equity, as well as to actions in courts of law. 
PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST INFANTS.
8ac. l. lnf'anu eAtitled to mamtain 1uits in all cue,. 
2. But next friend to be appointed for them:
8. By whom to be appointed in the clifl'erent court,.
4. Petition of infant and consent of next friend, nece11ary.
6. Cue, in which bond may be required from next friend.
6. Bond to be filed with ,urrogate, &c.
7. Order for appointment, when and where to be filed.
8. When guardian for inl'ant defendant to be appointed.
9. How and by whom made, when and where filed. 
SEC. 1. Proceeding1 to compel appointment. 
SEC. 2. Gurdians not liable for coats. 
TITLE II. 
SEC. 1. When an infant shall have any right of action, to recover real 
P
th
, h f l b d 
roperty or e possession t ereo , or to recover any ue t or ama- 
ges, he 1hal1 be entitled to maintain a suit thereon ; and the same
shall not be deferred or delayed, on account of such infant not being 
Of full age. I 
2. Before any process shall be issued in the name of an in&n~
who is sole plaintiff in any suit, a competent and responsible person 
shall be appointed to appear as next friend for such infant in such 
suit, who shall be responsible for the costs thereof. 
, S. Such appointment shall be made as follows : 
SEC. 8. After the issuing of process against any infant defendant, by
which he shall have been arrested, the suit shall not be aQY further
prosecuted, until a guardian for such infant be appointed. 
SEC. 9. Such appointment shall be made upon the request of such 
defendant, and on the written consent of any competent pel'&Oll pro­
posed as guardian, by any judge of the court, or by any judge or
commissioner authorised to perform the duties of a judge of such
court, in vacation ; and shall be filed in the office of a clerk ,,r the 
court, before any plea by such infant shall be filed. 
4 
1. If the suit is intended to be brought in chancery, by the cban· 
cell or, a vice-chancellor or any master : 
2. If intended to be brought in the supreme court, by a justice
thereof, circuit judge, or supreme court commissioner : 
s. If intended to be brought in any other court, by a judge of such 
court. 
SEC. 4. It shall be made on the petition of the infant, and the written
consent of the person proposed to be next friend to such infimt, duly
acknowledged before, or proved to, the officer making the appoint­ 
ment. 
SEC. 5. Before any person shall be appointed next friend for an in- 
fant, in any suit to recover any debt or damages, he shall, if required
by the efficer to whom application for such appointment shall be
made, execute a bond to such infant, in a penalty at least double the 
amount claimed in such suit, with such sureties as shall be approved
by such officer, conditioned that such next friend shall duly account 
to such infant for all monies which may be recovered in such suit.
6. Such bond shall be delivered to such officer be.fore the ap- 
b
pointment shall be made, and shall be by him filed in the office pf t e 
surrogate of the county in which $UCb infant resides ; and such officer 
shall be entitled to demand and receive from such next friend, the 
fee allowed to the surrogate for filing such bond, to be paid to him.
SEC. 7. The order for the appointment of a next friend, shall be filed 
in the office of a clerk of the court, before any bill or declaration
shall be filed in such cause. 
SEC. 0. If such infant defendant neglect, for twenty days after the
return day of the process by which he was arrested, to procure the 
appointment of a guardian to defend the suit, the plaintiff' may obtain
1n order from a judge of the court, requiring such infant to procure 
the appointment of a guardian, within ten days after service of 1ooh
order. 
SEC. 1. IC a guardian be not appointed within the time specified in 
such order, the judge or officer granting the same, shall appoint some
diicreet person to be guardian fot such infant, in the defence of such 
suiL 
SEC. 2. No person appointed guardian for the purpose of defending a
suit against an infant, shall be liable for the costs of such suit, unlMs 
specially charged by the order of the court for some personal miscon-
duct in such cause. 
TITLE ID.
or SUITS BY AND AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS, AND 
AGAINST HEIRS DEVISEES AND LEGATEES. 
Aar. 1.-0f suits by and against executors and administrators.
AI.T, !.-Of suits by and against legatees, and agaiuit nest of kin, beln and dni~ 
and between heirs and devisees. 
ARTICLE Flll8T. 
Of SuU& by and againat Execulora ancl .Adminiltralora. 
SEC. 1. Actiom ror wronga may be brought by and agaiut executon, &c.
2. Certain actiom excepted Crom lut section. 
I. Execaton, &:c. not to be held to bail, enept Cot wute. 
.t. Nor then without 1pecial order.
I. Appeauee by one oC seTenl executon, &e.
6. Et'ect oC judgment upon uecuton, &c. not appearing. 
7. U aul remediu to bring in executon, &:c. not ad'ected.
8. Lhbitation or actiom apimt executon, &e. extended. 
9. Aho of action, by executon, &c. extended. 
SEC. 0. Liability oC uecuton, &:c. ror Ca1ae pleading, aboli1hed. 
SEC. 1. lsectton oC GOAton, Dot to baTe u.y right. u 1ula.
SEC. 1. J•dgmenb apin1t exccaton not to bind real e1tate oC teatator, &c.
SEC. 3. Execntiom upoa j•dgmenta, by subsequent executors, &c.
SEC. 4. How far their. innntory may be rentted by proof.
SEC. 5. For what demands, encuton, &e. to be liable.
SEC. 6. Executon, &c. not to be deprived or proof, they may now make. 
SEC. 7. Eueuton or their own wrong aboli1hed; liable u trupusen. 
IS. llighu, &c. of adminutnton de boni, non. 
SEC. 1. For wrongs done to the property, rights or interests of another, 
fur which an action might be maintained against the wrong-doer, 
such action may be brought by the person injured, or after bia death, 
by his executors or administrators, against such wrong-doer, and af. 
\er his death against his executors or administrators, in the same 
lllanner and with the like effect in all respects, as actions founded
upon contracts. 
SEC. 2. But the preceding section shall not extend to actions for 
slander, for libel, or to actions of assault and battery, or false impri- 
sonment, nor to actions on the case for injuries to the person of the 
plaintiff, or to the person' of the testator or intestate of any executor 
or administrator. 
SEC. 8. No executors or administrators shall be held to bail, in any 
action against them, in their representative character, unless such ac­ 
tion be brought to charge them with waste. 
SEC. 4. Nor shall they be held to bail in such action, unless upon an
order of a judge of the court in which such action shall be brought, 
founded upon an affidavit of the facts and circumstances to support 
such charge. , 
SEC. 5. In actions against several executors or administrators, they 
shall all be considered as 'one person representing their testator or in- 
testate; and such of them as shall be first served with process, or
as shall first appear in the action, shall answer the plainillf. Judg· 
ment shall be rendered, and in the cases where execution may be is­ 
sued against the property of the testator or intestate, it shall be award· 
ed against such as shall have appeared, and the others named in the 
first process, in the same manner as if they had all appeared. 
6. But no judgment rendered in such action, by default or other· 
he
wise, shall be deemed evidence of any admission of assets, in t 
hands of any executor or administrator, who was not served with 
process in such action, or who did not actually appear therein. 
SEC. 7. The preceding section shall not deprive any plaintiff of the
l edi b · • 11 th dmi 'stra 
usua rem es, to rmg mto court a e executors or a DI • 
tors against whom the action is brought. 
6 
8. The term of eighteen months after the death of any testator
or intestate, shall not be deemed any part of the time limited by law 
for the commencement of actions against his executors or adminis­ 
trators.
9. The time which shall have elapsed between the death of any 
person, and the granting of letters testamentary or of administration, 
on his estate, not exceeding six months, and the period of six months
after the granting of such letters, shall not be deemed any part of the 
time limited by any law for the commencement of actions, by execu· 
tors or administrators. 
SEC. 0. NO executor or administrator shall be made personally lia-
ble for any debt, damages or costs, by reason of his. having pleaded 
any false plea. 
SEC. 1. An executor of an executor, shall have no authority to CO~ 
mence or maintain any action or proceeding relating to the estate, e · 
5 
. 
fects or rights of the testator of the first executor, or to take nny charge
oe control thereof, as such executor. 
SEC. 2. The real estate which belonged to auy deceased person, 
shall not be bound, or in any way affected, by any judgment against 
his executors or administrators, nor shall it be liable to be sold, by 
virtue of any execution issued upon such judgment. 
6 
SEC. 3. Any subsequent executors or administrators, shall have exc- 
• • 
cution upon any Judgment that may have been recovered by any per- 
son who preceded them in the administration of the same estate, with- 
in one year from the time of the docketing of such judgment, without
reviving the same by scire facias, and without any other proceeding 
to give notice to the defendant in such judgment. 
SEC. 4. In any action against executors or administrators, in which 
the fact of their having administered the estate of their testator or
intestate, or any part thereof, shall come in issue, and the inventory 
of the property of the deceased, made and filed by them, shall be giv- 
en in evidence, the plaintiff or defendant may rebut the same by proof, 
J. That any property or effects have been omitted in such inven­
tory, or were not returned therein at their true value: 
2. That such property has perished or been lost, without the fault 
of such executor or administrator, or that it has. been fairly sold by them
at private or public sale, at a less price than the value so returned; 
or that since tbe return of the inventory, such property has deteriorat­ 
ed or enhanced in value.
SEC. 5. In every such action, the defendants shall not be charged for 
any demands or rights in action specified in their inventory, unless it
appear that such demands or rights have been collected, or might have 
been collected with due diligence. 
SEC. 6. The two last sections shall not be construed to vary nny rules 
f
id • f hi h d • • 
o en ence m respect to any proo w ic an executor or a ministrator 
tnay now make by law.
SEC. 7. No person shall be liable to an action as executor of his own 
-.. l' h • . d k . r. d . h th
"'ong, ror avmg receive , ta en or interfere wit , e property or 
effects of a deceased person; but shall be responsible as a wrong-doer 
in the proper action to the executors, or general or special administra- 
tors, of such deceased person, for the value of any property or effects so
taken or received, and for all damages caused by his acts, to the es- 
tate of the deceased. 
SEC. 8. When administration of the effects of n deceased person, 
Which shall have been left unadministered by nny previous executor
or administrator of the same estate, shall be granted to any person, 
----· 
such person may brjng a writ of error upon any judgment obtained
against such previous executor or administrator of the same estate, or 
against the original testator or intestate; and shall defend any writ of
error brought upon any such judgment; and shall have the same re­ 
medies, in the prosecution or defence of any action, by or against such 
previous executors or administrators, and for the collection and en­ 
forcing of any judgment obtained by them, as they would have by
Jaw.? 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
Of Suits by and against Legatees, and against nut of Cm,
Heirs and Deoisees, and between Heirs and Deviseu. 
SEC. 9. Reference of auita by legatees against executon.
SEC. 0. Proceedings and powen of referees.
SEC. 1. Cost., bow and by whom to be paid.
SEC. 2. Action for further useta; proceedings.
SEC. 8. How action• against next of kin may be brought.
SEC. 4. Recovery in auch action; when apportioned. 
SEC. 5. Contribution may be compelled.
SEC. 6. How action• against legatee• may be brought.
SEC. 1. Requieites to reconry in such action.
SEC. 8. Recovery bow apportioned among 1everal legatees.
SEC. 9. Apportionment of coat. against relatives and legatees.
SEC. 0. Judgment to exprcaa the amowrt recovered againat each. 
SEC. 1. Payment of hi, ,hare by one, to exonerate him.
SEC. 2. Hein and devi1ee1 how far liable for debts of ancestor.
83 & St. But hein not liable until personal asset, exhausted, &c. 
SEC. 5. Expre11 directions of will not to be affected.
SEC. 6. Creditor to e1tabli1h liability of heirs. 
SEC. 1. Order of payment of debt. of ancestor. 
BS. Preference to debts o( r.ame clu1, &c.
SEC. 9. Prior debu and those of same class, may be ahown. 
SEC. 0. When recovery to be had (or proportion of debt.
SEC. 1. Payment of certain debts may be ahown, &c.
SEC. 2. Suits at law against heirs abolished; remedy in equity.
SEC. 8. Such 1uit1 not to be delayed by infancy of heirs, &c.
SEC. 4. In such 1uits, bill to apecify real estate deseended.
SEC. 5. Defence thereto by heirs.
SEC. 6. Proceedings to ucertain value of land descended.
SEC. 7. When debt to be levied ofreal estate descended.
SEC. 8. Such decree to ban preference over judgment., &c. individnaUy.
SEC. 9. Liability of heir, whe,e landl have been claimed.
SEC. 0. Order of liability; defence by heir. 
SEC. 1. Land aliened, &c. not affected by decree againat heir.
SEC. 2. Reeonries against 1everal hein, &c. how apportioned.
SEC. 3. Coats alao; decree to 1pecify sum recovered against each.
SEC. 4. Execution, against infant heirs, to be stayed one year, &c.
SEC. 5. Endorsement, to be made on execution.
M. Requiaitea to render devlsees liable. 
SEC. 7. For what deficiencies liable.
SEC. 8. Two lut 1ection1 not to aft"ect expre11 directions of a will. 
SEC. 9. Creditor to establish facts, &c. to render devisee liable.
SEC. 0. Provision, concerning hein, extended to deviaeea.
SEC. 1. Liability in cue of aliening land devised,
SEC. 3. Remedy of child born after making a will (or hia ,bare.
SEC. 4. Power of chancery to compel distribution and contribution.
SEC. 5. Aleo to compel contribntion by deviaee.
SEC. 6. Foregoing provi1ion1 to apply to certain witne111e1 to will,. 
SEC. 9. Whene,er an action shall be brought by any legatee against
an executor or administrator, and the want of assets to pay all the debts
of the deceased, and all the legacies bequeathed by him or any of them, 
shall be pleaded, the cause shall be referred to referees, to examine the
accounts, of the defendants, and to hear and report upon the allega-
tions and proofs of the parties in respect to such plea. 
8 
SEC. 0. .Such referees shall proceed in the manner provided by law 
i'. f ' • hi h h ' l 
fn respect to reierences o actions m w ic t ere rs a ong account;
and all the provisions of law in relation to such references, shall apply 
to referees appointed pursuant to the last section, and to their proceed- 
ings, an4 the judgment thereon.
SEC. 1. In such cases, the costs of the action, or of either party, shall 
be paid as the court may direct, out of the estate of the deceased, or
by the defendants personally, if their refusal to pay such legacy or their
defence of the action, shall appear to have been unreasonable. 
~ H. If the plaintiff in such suit shall recover only part of his de- 
mand, for the want of assets in the hands of of the defendants, and as-
aets shall afterwards come to their hands, he shall have a new action 
for the recovery thereof, or of the proportionate share thereof, to which
he may be entitled; and the same proceedings, in all respects, shall
be had in such action. 
8 
SEC. 8. Actions against the next of kin of any deceased person, to re- 
, 
cover the value of any assets that may have been paid to them by an
executor or administrator, may be brought against all of the said re­ 
latives jointly, or one or more of them, for the amount received by each 
of them.
SEC. 4. In such action, the plaintiff shall be entitled to recover the 
value of all the assets received by all the defendants in the suit, if ne-
cessary to satisfy his demand; and the amount of the recovery shall 
be apportioned among the defendants, in proportion to the value of tho
assets received by each; and no allowance or deduction shall be made
&om such amount, on account of there being other relatives to whom
assets have also been delivered. 
SEC. 5. Any one of the next of kin, against whom a recovery shall 
be had pursuant to the preceding sections, may maintain an action 
against all the other relatives of the testator, to whom any such assets 
1nay have been paid, jointly, or against any of them separately, for 
just and equal contribution; and shall be entitled to recover of each
defendant, such an amount as shall be in the same proportion to the 
whole sum collected of the plaintiff, as the value of the assets deliver- 
ed to such defendant, bore to the value of all the assets delivered to
all the relatives of the deceased. 
SEC. 6. Actions by creditors of any deceased persons, to recover the
value of any assets that may have been paid by any executor or ad- 
ministrator to any legatees of their testator, may be brought against
all of such legatees jointly, or against any single legatee separately. 
--- - -- ----- -- --- 
8 
SEC. 7. In such action, the plaintiff shall not be entitled to recover,
unless he shows, 
• • •
1. That no assets were delivered by the executor or administrator 
} J hi f k' 
oft ie deceased, to is next o m : or, 
2. That the value of such assets has been recovered by some other
creditor : or, 
a. That such assets are not sufficient to satisfy the demand of the
plaintiff: 
And in the last case, he shall be entitled to recover only the defi­ 
ciency. 
SEC. 8. The whole amount which the plaintiff shall be entitled to re­ 
cover, shall be apportioned among all the legatees of the testator, in 
proportion to the respective amounts of their several legacies; and 
such proportion, only, shall be recovered of each· legatee. 
SEC. 9. If any action be brought against several relatives jointly, or 
against several legatees jointly, for assets delivered to them, if a re- 
covery be hall against them, the costs of such action shall be appor­ 
tioned among the several defendants, in proportion to the amount of
the debt or damages recovered against each of them . 
SEC. 0. In every such action, the judgment shall express the amount
recovered against each defendant, for debt or damages, and costs; and 
the execution issued thereon, shall correspond to such judgment. 
SEC. 1. In case of any judgment against several relatives of a testa­ 
tor, or against several legatees, the payment or satisfaction of the 
amount recovered against any one of the defendants, shall discharge 
such defendant, and shall exonerate him and his property from such
judgment, and from the execution thereon. 
SEC. 2. The heirs of everv person who shall have died intestate, and 
• 
the heirs and devisoes of any person who shall have died after the
making of his last will and testament, shall respectively be liable for 
the debts of such person, arising by simple contract or by specialty, to
tho extent of the estate, interest and right, in tho real estate which 
shall have descended to them, from, or been devised to them by, such, 
person.9 · 
~ SS. But snch heirs shall not be liable for any such debt, unless 
shall appear that the personal assets of the deceased were not suffi­ 
cient to pay ancl discharge the same ; or that after due proceedings be- 
fore the proper surrogate's court, and at law, the creditor has been 
unable to collect such debt, or some part thereof, from the personal
representatives of the deceased, or from his next of kin or legatees. 
SEC. 4. In case the personal assets were sufficient to pay a part of 
such debt, or in case a part thereof shall have been collected as ID e 
- 
• th 
last section mentioned, the heirs of such deceased person shall be lia- 
ble for the residue unpaid or uncollected.
SEC. 5. But the two last sections shall not affect or impair the lia- 
bility of heirs for any debt of their ancestor, where such debt was, by
his will expressly charged exclusively upon the real estate descended 
to such heirs; or where such debt is, by such will, expressly directed 
to be paid out of the real estate descended, before resorting to the per- 
sonal estate. 
SEC. 6. It shall be incumbent on the creditor seeking to charge any 
heirs, to show the facts and circumstances herein required to render 
them liable. 
SEC. 7. In cases where the next of kin, legatees, heirs And devisees, 
are liable for the debts of their ancestors, as herein provided, they 
shall give preference in the payment of the same, and shall be liable 
therefor, in the following order : 
1. Debts entitled to a preference under the laws of the United States : 
2. Judgments docketed, and decrees enrolled against their ances­ 
tor, according to the priority thereof respectively: 
3. Recognizances, bonds, sealed instruments, notes, bills, and un­ 
liquidated demands and accounts. 
SEC. 8. No preference shall be given by any next of kin, legatee, 
heir or devisee, to any debt over other debts of the same class, except 
those specified in the second class of the last section ; nor shall a debt
Jue and payable, be entitled to a preference over debts not due; nor 
shall the commencement of a suit against any next of kin, legatee, 
heir or devisee, for the recovery of any debt, entitle such debt to any 
prekrence over others of the same class.
SEC. 9. The next of kin, legatees, heirs and devisees, may show that 
there are debts of a prior class unsatisfied, or that there are unpaid
debts of the same class with that on which the suit is brought ; and 
if it appear that the value of the personal property delivered to them,
or of the real estate descended or devised to them, does not exceed the 
debts of a prior class, judgment shall be rendered in their favor. 
SEC. 0. If the personal property delivered to such next of kin or le- 
gatees, or if the real estate descended or devised to such heirs and 
devisees, exceeds the amount of debts which are entitled to a prefer- 
ence over the debt for which the suit is brought, judgment shall be
r~ndered against them only for such a sum as shall be a just propor- 
tion to the other debts of the same class with that on which the suit is
brought. 
SEC. 1. If any debt of a prior class to that on which the suit is 
b
, 
rought, or of the same class, shall have been paid by any next of 
kin, legatees, heirs or devisees, they may give evidence of such pay- 
ment; and the amount of the debts so paid, shall be estimated in as- 
certaining the amount to be recovered, in the same manner as if such
debts were outstanding and unpaid, as prescribed in the two. last sec­
tions. 
SEC. 2. The heirs of any person who may be liable to any creditor 
o( such person, in consequence of lands having descended to them,
shall be prosecuted jointly in a court of equity, but shall not be liable
to any suit in a court of law. 
SEC. 8. Suits against heirs or devisees shall not be delayed, nor shall
the remedy of the plaintiffs be suspended, by reason of the infancy of
any such heir or devisee ; but guardians, to defend their rights in such
suits, shall be appointed, as in other cases. •0 
SEC. 4. In any bill filed azainst heirs to charge them on account of 
o- 
any lands and tenements or hereclitaments descended to them, the
complainant shall specify with convenient certainty, the real estate 
so descended.
SEC. 5. In such suit, any heir may show that at the time of the com· 
mencement thereof, he had nothing by descent, or that he had not suf
ficient to satisfy the complainant's demand." 
SEC. 6. If it appears that any lands or tenements have descended to
such heir, the court shall inquire and ascertain the value thereof, ei­ 
ther by reference to a master. or by awarding an issue for that pur· 
pose. 
SEC. 7. If it appear that the lands, tenements or hereditaments sode-
scended, were not aliened by such heir, at the time of the commence· 
ment of the suit ; or if the heir confess the action, and show what
lands, tenements or hereditaments have descended to him; the court
shall decree that the debt of the plaintiff, or the proportion thereof
which he is entitled to recover, shall be levied of such real estate so
descended ; and not otherwise. 
12 
SEC. 8. Every final decree rendered in such suit, shall have prefer·
ence as a lien on the real estate descended, to any judgment or decree 
obtained against such heir personally, for any debt or demand in his
own right. 
SEC. 9. When it shall appear, in any such suit, that before the com· 
meneement thereof, any such heir has aliened the lands, tenements or
hereditaments descended to him, or any part thereof, he shall be per·
sonally liable for the value of the estate so aliened, and judgment shall
be rendered therefor, and execution awarded, as in suits for his own 
debts.12 
SEC. 0. In such cases, the preference herein before declared, in re·
spect to demands against the ancestor of such heir, shall apply, and
such heir may show the same matters herein before allowed, and the
same proceedings and judgment shall be had thereon. 
---~--·-·-·- 
SEC. 1. But no lands, tenements or hereditaments, aliened in good
faith by any heir, before any suit commenced against him, shall be
I
. bl · · ffi ed b d . h
ia e to execution, or m any manner a ect y a ecree agamst sue 
heir.11 
SEC. 2. In suits brought against several heirs jointly, or several de-
visees jointly, the amount which the plaintiff shall be entitled to re- 
cover, shall be apportioned among all the heirs of the ancestor, or
among all the devisees of the testator, in proportion to the value of
the real estate descended to such heirs, or devised to such devlsees,
respectively, as the case may be, and such proportion only shall be 
recovered of each heir, or of each legatee.
SEC. 8. The costs of such suit shall be apportioned among the seve- 
ral defendants, in proportion to the debt or damages recovered against
each of them ; the decree shall express the amount recovered against 
each defendant for debt, or damages and costs, and the execution issu-
ed thereon, shall conform to such decree. 
SEC. 4. When a decree shall be rendered against any heirs or devi-
sees who are infants, no execution issued thereon shall be executed 
against them, until the expiration of one year after the rendition of
such decree ; but such execution may be executed against any de- 
fendants in the same suit, who were of full age.
SEC. 5. The solicitor issuing an execution, in every such case, shall 
endorse thereon the names of the defendants who are infants, and shall
direct the sheriff not to execute the same against such infants, until 
the time specified in the last section.
SEC. 6. Devisees made liable by the foregoing provisions, to the ere- 
ditors of their testator, shall not be so liable, unless it shall appear
that his personal assets, and the real estate of the testator descended 
to his heirs, were insufficient to discharge such debt; or unless it shall
appear that after due proceedings before the proper surrogate, and at 
law, the creditor has been unable to recover such debt, or some part
thereof, from the personal representatives of the testator, or from his
next of kin, or legatees, or from his heirs. 
SEC. 7. In either of the cases specified in the last section, the amount
of the deficiency of the personal assets, and of the real estate descend­
ed, to satisfy the debt of the plaintiff, and the amount which such 
plaintiff may have failed to recover from the personal representatives
of the testator, his next of kin, legatees and heirs, may be recovered
of the devisees of such testator, to the extent of the real estate devised 
to them respectively.
SEC. 8. But the two last sections shall not impair or affect the lia- 
bility of devisees, for any debt of their testator, where such debt was
by his will expressly charged exclusively upon the real estate devis- 
ed ; or made payable exclusively by such devisee, by the terms of 
the will ; or made payable out of the estate devised, before resorting 
to the personal estate or to any other real estate descended or devised. 
SEC. 9. It shall be incumbent on the creditor seekinz to charge an.v 
..., "' 
devisees, to show, on the trial, the facts and circumstances herein re- 
quired to render them liable. 
SEC. 0. The provisions herein contained, with regard to heirs, and to
proceedings by and against them, and to decrees and executions against
them, shall be applicable to suits and proceedings against devisees,
who shall, in like manner, be sued jointly. 
SEC. 1. Devisees shall be liable, in the same manner and to the same 
extent, as heirs, notwithstanding they may have aliened the real es­ 
tate devised, before suit brought against them ; but no real estate
aliened in good faith by any devisee, before the commencement of a
suit against him, shall be liable to execution upon, or in any manner 
affected by, a decree against such devisee.14 
SEC. 2. In cases where, by the provisions of any statute, a child born
after the making of a will, shall be entitled to succeed to a portion of 
the testator's real and personal estate, such child shall have the same 
rights and remedies to compel a distribution of the personal estate, 
and a partition of the real estate, as are provided by Jaw for next of i 
kin and for heirs ; and shall in all respects be liable, in the same man·
ner and to the same extent, to the creditors of his ancestor, in respect
to the personal property delivered to him, and the real estate descend· 
ed to him, as are herein prescribed in relation to next of kin and heirs. 
SEC. 8. Such child shall be authorised to recover of the legatees who 
may have received any property or effects of the testator, the portion 
of such property or effects to which he may be entitled, by an action
of replevin, or of trover or assumpsit, as the case may require ; and 
shall also be entitled to recover of the devisees of any real estate un­
der the will of the testator, such portion of such real estate as shall be- 
long to him. - 
" ) 
SEC. 4. In cases where a distribution of such personal estate shal
not have been made by the surrogate, to any such child born after the
making of a will, the court of chancery shall have power to compel 
the same ; and the said court shall have power also to compel just and 
equal contribution by the legatees under such will, to make up the 
portion of personal property to which such child shall be entitled. 
SEC. 5. The court of chancery shall also have power to compel pa~·
tition between the devisees of any real estate, and such child so enu­
tied to a portion of such real estate, so as to enforce a just and pro­ 
portionate contribution by each devisee. 
SEC. 6. The foregoing provisions relative to a child born after the
making of a will, shall apply equally in all respects to every person~ 
who, being a witness to a will, shall be entitled by the provisions ofwili., 
any statute, to recover any portion of the personal or real estate of the
testator, from the legatees and devisees named in such will. · 
OF PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST CORPORATIONS, AND PUBLIC
BODIES HAVING CERTAIN CORPORATE POWERS, AND BY AND
AGAINST OFFICERS REPRESENTING THEM. 
ART. 1.-0fproceedingt by and against corporations, in courts of law. 
UT, ~-Of proceedings again1t corporatione, in equity.
bT. 3.--0f &be voluntary dissolution of corporatione.
AaT. 4.-0fproceeding11 by and against public bodies, having certain corporate powers, 
aod by and against the oflicers rt:presentin_g them. 
SEC. 1. Foreign eorpon.tiona may 111e, on giving security. 
2. Except actiom foanded on violation, of oar own 1tatatea.
8. When exiltence of domutic corpontion, to be proncL
4. Procea agaiut corpo~tiona, teate, retllfD, ate. 
~- H01r to be ,e"ed. 
TITLE IV. 
ABTICLE FIRST. 
Of Proceedinga by and ·agaimt Corporations, in Courts of 
Law. 
6. Appuruce of defeadant. when to be entered.
'l. Declaration m&.J be for came accnaing after 1IUte of proce ... 
8. ln certaie cuea,jadgment aay be applied for at first term.
9. Jac:lpMlltto N reqdered uleu goo4 defaoe appear • 
SEC. 0. When iamediate reference to l,e onlered. 
SEC. 1. Jana or l'act ud or law to ban preference in trial, and uguaente. 
n Bate of dut.ape to be recorered apinlt bab.
SEC. 3. In plMding, not necuaary to aet forth act. of incorporation, &c. 
SEC. 4. Miatake ~ mmi°!i a corpora~on, bow waiy~- ~ ,, . __ __.., _ . _ __ __ _ _ 
SEC. 6. Saita agaiut foreiga corporatiou, may>
SEC. 6. By whom to be inned; its content,. Copyof Cetatral Ruk 11dopltd b) tlu Supreme 
SEC. 7. Prool'neceuary to nltain applioati~ 5t'6 January, 1836.
SEC. 8. Wbat !oacben to be produed ~ ee. " When a wriL shall ho brought, 
SEC. 9. One W1tDeu neCHIU'J' to e•!-1>li•b d R. St., 457, § J, by a foreign eorpcratlcn, 
21). Boni to .econ COIU to be gtnn, wh h II be ·
SEC. 1. General powen ad duties of ,hen« ~ a gmm by Bond, ex~1.1ted by 
.n at IS. Certain proTiaiom otl&w conceP•n the penalty of f600, conditioned
M. Proceedings on jugmatfor plaiDtift: ·~· may be awarded to tht defendant, 
SEC. 5. Proceedingt when jaclgment it f'or ~e(~ ~ ~ be filed with I.he writ or declaration, 
SEC. 8. Double coet. and damage, for Tentiolll ~ ~ ~';'uit shall be commenced.
'II, When defendant.I may appear ad clefend. lxcept to such sureties, and 
SEC. 8. When they may apply for diacharge of at . .
SEC. 9. Bond to be given; ita penalty an4l cOBdition. . acconhng to Lhe practice. 2 
SEC. 0. Apportiomug defendant.' property ... oog eennl plaiatift'a. 
SEC. 1. A foreign corporation created by the laws of any other state 
« country, may, upon giving security fur the payment of the c.osts of:rc::~ 
suit, proeecute in the courts of this state, in the same manner as cor­ 
porations created under the laws of this state.
SEC. 2. But where, by the laws of this state, any act is forbidden to be 
done by any corporation or by any association of individuals, without 
express authority by law, and such act shall have been done by a fo.
reign corporation, it shall not be authorised to maintain any action 
founded upon such act, or upon any liability or obligation, express or
implied, arising out of, or made or entered into, in consideration o~
such act. 
~ 3 .. In suits brought by a corporation created by or uader any sta·
tute of this state, it shall not be neceuary to prove on the trial of the 
cause, the existence of such corporation, unless the defendant shall
have pleaded in abatement or in bar, that the plaintiffs are not a cor­
poration. 
SEC. 4. The first proceu for the commencement of a suit against a
corporation, shall be a summons, except in those cases where a acif'e 
faciaa or other process is allowed by law ; and such process, and all
other writs and process against corporations, may be issued and test­ 
ed on any day in term, and may be made returnable on any day in 
the same, or the next succeeding term, in the same manner as precess
issued against individuals may be issued, tested and returned." 
SEC. 5. Writs of summons and other process for the commencement
of a suit against a corporation, may be served on the return day of 
such process, or previous thereto, on the presiding officer, the cashier,
the secretary, or the treasurer thereof; and if there be no such officer,
or none can be found, such service may be made on such other offi­
cer or member of such corporation, or in such other manner, as the 
court in which the suit is brought, may direct.1• 
SEC. 6. When such process shall have been returned duly served, the 
appearance of the corporation shall be entered, and the plaintiff shall
proceed thereupon in such suit, in the same manner as in personal ac­ 
tions against natural persons.l" 
7. In every such action, the plaintiff may declare on a cause of
action which arose previous to the commencement of the suit, al· 
though the same may have arisen after the teste of the proces., by
which the action was commenced.18 
8. In any such action founded upon a note or other evidence of
b l'. th b l . 
e t, ror e a so ute payment of money on demand, or at any parti-
cular time, if it shall appear that the first process together with a copy
of the declaration was served at least twenty days before the return
of such process, the plaintiff may file a declaration in such suit on such
return day, or on any subsequent day in the same term, and may ap·
ply for judgment.19 
SEC. 9. On such application, the court shall render judgment for the
plaintiff as by default, either interlocutory or final, or both, as the 
case may require; unless it shall satisfactorily appear to such court, 
that such corporation has a good and substantial defenee on the merits,
which shall be diacloeed by affidavit. 
20 
SEC. 0. If such defence consist of a set-off, and be of such a nature 
that the cause might be referred, the court shall immediately refer the
cause to the clerk thereof, or to some other fit persons, to hear the
proofs of the parties, and report thereon ; and the proceedings there- 
on shall be the same in all respects as in cases of reference.
SEC. 1. Every issue of fact joined in such cause, shall have a pre- 
ference at the court at which it shall be noticed for trial, to all other
causes ; and every case made, special verdict rendered, bill of excep- 
tions and demurrer to evidence taken, on such trial, and every issue
of law joined on the pleadings in any such suit, shall have a prefe- 
rence in the argument thereof in any court where the same may be 
pending.~O 
SEC. 2. When judgment shall be rendered against any incorporated 
bank, for the amount of any bills or other evidences of debt, payable 
absolutely, the payment of which shall have been refused by such 
bank, and no measure of damages shall be specified in the act incor-
porating such bank, the plaintiff shall recover interest on such amount 
from the time of such refusal, at the rate of ten per cent. a year, in- 
stead of the rate of interest established by law. 
21 
~ IS. In actions by or against any corporation created by or under 
any law of this state, it shall not be necessary to recite the act or acts
of incorporation, or the proceedings by which such corporation was
created, or to set forth the substance thereof, but the same may be
pleaded by reciting the title of such act, and the date of its passage. 
SEC. 4. In suits or proceedings by or against any corporation, a mis-
take in the naming of such corporation, shall be pleaded in abate- 
ment; and if not so pleaded, shall ·be deemed to have been waived.
SEC. 5. Suits brought in the supreme court by a resident of this state, 
against any corporation created by or under the laws of any other 
state, government or country, for the recovery of any debt or dama- 
ges, may be commenced by attachment.
SEC. 6. The court, or any judge thereof in vacation, and any officer 
authorised to perform the duties of such judge, in vacation, may, on the
application of the plaintiff, issue such attachment to the sheriff of the
county in which any property of such corporation may be, command- 
ing him to attach and safely keep all the estate, real and personal, of 
such corporation.
SEC. 7. Such application shall be in writing, and shall be accompa- 
nied by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or one of the p]aintifl"s, specifying
the sum in which mch corporation is indebted to him, over and above 
all dlscounts ; or specifying the amount of damages to which he aball 
claim to be entitled. 
SEC. 8. If such suit he for thi, recovery of a debt, the original secu­
rity if any, shall be produced at the time of making such application, 
and a c.opy thereof shall be annexed to the affidavit : if there be no
written security, then the original accounts shall in like manner be
produced, and a copy thereof be annexed to the affidavit. 
SEC. 9. If such suit be for the recovery of any damages, the facts and
circumstances to establish the grounds of such claim, and the amount 
thereof, shall be proved by the affidavit of at least one disinteresled
witneu. 
SEC. 0. Before such attachment shall issue, a bond shall be executed
by or on behalf of the plaintiff, to the defendants, in the penalty of two
hundred and fifty dollars, with sureties to be approved by the officer 
to whom the application is made, conditioned to pay all costs which
shall be awarded against such plaintiff in such suit, which bond shall 
be filed by the officer receiving the same, in the office of a clerk of the 
courL
SEC. 1. The sheriff' to whom such attachment shall be directed and 
delivered, shall proceed thereon in all respects, in the manner preserib­
ed by law in case of attachments against llbsent debtors, shall make and
return an inventory, and shall keep the property seized by him, or the
proceeds of such as shall have been sold, to answer any judgment which 
may be obtained in such suit. 
SEC. 2. If any property so seized shall be perishable, or if any part
of it be claimed by any other person than such corporation, or if any
part of it consist of a vessel belonging to any port or place in this state,
or any of the United States, or of any foreign vessel, or of any share or
interest in any vessel, the same proceedings shall be had in all respects,
as are provided by law upon attachments against absent debtors, 
SEC. 8. Any bond required in any such case to be given by a peti­
tioning creditor, may be given by the plaintiff" in the suit; and any
bond required to be given to the sheriff serving such attachment, shall
be held for the benefit of the plaintiff in such suit. 
SEC. 4. In cue judgment be rendered for the plaintiff in any such suit,
and an execution be awarded thereon, the sheriff shall assign to the 
plaintiff any bond taken by him in the course of the proceedings, shall
pay over to such plaintiff the proceeds of all sales of perishable pro­
perty, or of any vessel or share or interest in a vessel, sold by him, or 
so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy such execution; and
if any balance remain due, he shall sell, under such execution, so
much of the property of such corporation remaining in his hands, u 
may be necessary to satisfy such balance. 
SEC. 5. If the plaintiff in such action be non'"81lited, or diecontinue
the saipe, or judgment for any cause pass against him, every such bond~
taken by the sheriff, all the proceeds of such sales, and all the proper- 
ty of such corporation remaining in his hands, shall be delivered by
such sheriff to the defendants or their agents, in the same manner and 
upon the same terms, as are prescribed in the cue of an attachment
against an absent debtor being discharged; and in case of the failure
of such corporation to comply with such terms, the sheriff shall proceed
in like manner as directed in case of an absent debtor. 
SEC. 6. If it shall appear to the court that any such suit AaRinat a 
ioreign corporation wu brought vexatiously and without just cause,
they shall award double costs against the plaintiff"; and such plaintiff' 
shall be liable to the defendants for all damages which they may SU&­ 
tain by such proceedings.
SEC. 7. .At &DY time before the plaintiff in such suit shall have leet 
a trial therein, and after such time, upon good cause shown, the court
may allow such corporation to appear in the action and defend the 
same, upon such terms as the court shall think proper.
SEC. 8. Whenever such corporation shall have appeared in such suit, 
• 
they may apply to the officer who issued such attachment, or to the
court, for an order to discharge the same. 
SEC. 9. Upon s11ch ·application, the said corporation shall deliver to
the court or officer, a bond to the plaintiff in the suit, with at· least two
sureties, residents and freeholders in this state, to be approved by such
court or officer, in a penalty at least double the amount of the claim
of such plaintiff; proved as herein before directed, conditioned that the
obligors in such bond will, on demand, pay the amount of the judg- 
ment that may be recovered against such corporation, in such suit.
~ SO. If there be more than one attachment issued against any 
foreign corporation, in behalf of several plaintiffs, at the same term, or
during the same vacation of a term, and judgments be rendered in favor
of such plaintifliJ, the court shall apportion the proceeds arising from 
the sale of the defendant's property, among the said plaintiffs, in pro-
portion to the amount of their respective judgments. 
ARTICLE.SECOND. 
Of Proceedings against Corporatiom, in Equity. 
SEC. 1. Authority of chancery to re,tnm unrpatioa of eorponte po,nn, ,Cc. 
SEC. 1. Wilen injunction may be issued, how long continued. 
SEC. 8. J'arildiction or ehucellor ayer oftieen of corporation,,
SEC. 4. Other 1'i1itatorial powen D0t afl'eeted by Jut NCtiOD,
SEC. 5. Preceding powen, how and at whoae instance exerci1ecl. 
SEC. 6. When p,operty of corporation to be 1equestered, ate.
SEC. 7. Upon final decree, di1trib1ltion how to be JUde.
SEC. 8. Certaia act, and omi11iona or corpontiou to di11ol.-e them. 
SEC. 9. When u,e of right, by certain corporation, may be rettrained.
SEC. 0. On whole application and what proof', injunction to iuue. 
SEC. 1. ReceiTen when to be appointed, their reapomibility, &c. 
"""- 
Seo. 4 Tbeir genen1 powers ud dlatlee. 
SEC. 1. When ud how directon and 1tockholden may be made parties.
SEC. 4. Bow made putiea after a decree. 
SEC. 5. Jarildietion onr noekliolder, Ire. for cleMa ol OOlpCll'ldma. 
SEC. 6. ProeeecliDp OD billa filed by crecliton. 
SEC. 7. Decree when corpontion i1 iuolnnt.
SEC. 8. Diatn"ba.tiGn of property of co,pontion. 
SEC. 9. When .tockholden aompellecl to pay a.p arnan oo their 1tock. 
SEC. 0. Liabilitie. of directon and stockholden, how enforced. 
IJl. Di1covery by COfl'Ol'lltion1, may be compelled. 
U. When ofticen, ltoekholden, &c. compelled to clilcoTer, 
SEC. 3. _bn,ers of ofticen, bow far eridence.
N. Aanren In what cue1 only compelled. 
SEC. 6. Penom compelled to auwer exonented Crom prosecution, &c.
SEC. 6. When proceeding1 at law against corpontion1 to be 1tayed. 
SEC. 7. Corpontion, excepted from the promioa1 oftbil uticlo. 
~ S l. Upon a bill being filed by the attorney-general In the court
of chancery, the chancellor shall have power to restrain by injunction
any corporation from assuming or exercising any franchise, liberty or
privilege, or transacting any business, not allowed by the charter of
such corporation; and in the same manner, to restrain any indiridu­
tlls from exercising any corporate rights, privileges or franchises, not 
granted to them by any law of this state. 
SEC. 2. Such injunction may be issued before the coming in of the 
answer, upon satisfactory proof that the defendants complained of,
have usurped, exercised, or claimed any franchise, privilege, liberty, 
or corporate right not granted to them ; and after the coming in of
the answer, such injunction may be continued until judgment at law
shall have been had. 
SS. The chancellor shall have jurisdiction over directors, mana-
gers, and other trustees and officers of corporations, 
1. To compel them to account for their official conduct, in the
management and disposition of the funds and property committed to
their charge : 
2. To decree and compel payment by them, to the corporation
whom they represent, and to its creditors, of all sums of money, and 
of the value of all property which they may have acquired to them­
selves or transferred to others, or may have lost or wasted, by any
violation of their duties as such trustees : 
a. To suspend any such trustee or officer from exercising his of· 
fice, whenever it shall appear, that he has abused his trust:
,. To remove any such trustee or officer from his office, upon 
proof or conviction of grOM misconduct: 
6. To direct new elections to be held by the body or board duly
authorised for that purpose, to supply vacancies created by such re- 
moval: 
6. In case there be no such body or board, or all the memf,ers of
such board be removed, then to report the same to the governor, who 
shall be authorised, with the consent of the senate, to fill such vacan­
cies: 
'I. To set aside all alienations of property made by the trustees or
other officers of any corporation, contrary to the provisions of law, or~ 
for purposes foreign to the lawful business and objects of such corpo-
ration, in cases where the person receiving such alienation, knew the 
purpose for which the same was made: and, 
8. To restrain and prevent any such alienation in cases where 
may be threatened, or there may be good reason to apprehend it will 
be made.
SEC. 4. When any of the visitatorial powers enumerated in the last 
· • hall be ested b • 
section, over any corporation, are or s v , y statute, m
any corporate body or public officer, the provisions of that section
shall not be construed to divest or impair the powers so vested. 
SEC. 5. The jurisdiction conferred by the preceding thirty-third sec-
tion, shall be exercised as in ordinary cases, on bill or petition, as 
the cue may require, or the chancellor may direct, at the instance of 
the attorney-general prosecuting in behalf of the people of this state, 
or at the instance of any creditor of such corporation, or at the in-
stance of any director, trustee or other officer of such corporation,
having a general superintendence of its concerns. 
SEC. 6. Whenever a judgment at law, or a decree in equity, shall 
be
ob
• ed • • • rated d th 1 
tain agamst any corporation, mcorpo un er e aws o 
this state, and an execution issued thereon shall have been returned
Ulllatiafied in part or in the whole, upon the petition of the person ob- 
taining such judgment or decree, or his representatives, the court of 
chancery may sequestrate the stock, property, things in action and 
effects of such corporation, and may appoint a receiver of the same.u 
SEC. 7. Upon a final decree on any such petition, the court shall 
cause a just and fair distribution of the property of such corporation,
and of the proceeds thereof, to be made among the fair and honest 
crediton of such corporation, in proportion to their debts respectively, 
who shall be paid in the same order as provided by this Title, in the 
cue of a voluntary dissolution of a corporation. u
SEC. 8. Whenever any incorporated company shall have remained 
insolvent for one whole year ; or for one year shall have neglected
or refused to pay and discharge its notes or other evidences of debt; 
or for one year shall have suspended the ordinary and lawful busi-
ness of such corporation ; it shall be deemed to have surrendered the 
rights, privileges and franchises granted by any act of incorporation,
or acquired under the laws of this state, and shall be adjudged to be 
dissolved. 
22
. 
SEC. 9. Whenever any corporation having banking powers, or hav-
mg the power to make loans on pledges or deposits, or authorised by 
law to make insurances, shall become insolvent or unable to pay its 
debts, or shall have violated any of the provisions of its act or acts of
incorporation, or of any other act binding on such corporation, the 
court of chancery may, by injunction, restrain such corporation, and 
its officen1, from exercising any of its corporate rights, privileges or
franchises, and from collecting or receiving any debts or demands,
and from paying out, or in any way transferring or delivering to any
penon any of the monies, property or effects of such corporation, until
such court shall otherwise order. n 
SEC. 0. Such iniunction may be issued on the application of the at-
tomey-general, in behalf of this state, or of any creditor or stockhold-
er of such corporation, upon bill or petition, filed for that purpose, 
and upon due proof of any of the facta in the last section required, to 
autboria«i the iMuing of the same.• 
SEC. 1. Upon such application being made, and in any stage of the 
• • • 
proceedmgs thereupon, the court may appoint one or more receivers,
to take charge of the property and effects of such corporation, and to 
collect, sue for and recover the debts and demands that may be due,
and the property that may belong to such corporation ; who shall, in 
all respects, be subject to the control of the court.21 
SEC. 2. Such receiver shall possess all the powers and authority con- 
ferred, and be subject to all the obligations and duties im , lD 
Article Third of this Title, upon receivers appointed in case of the
voluntary dissolution of a corporation. 
SEC. 8. If such application be made by a creditor of &11y corpora&ion, 
whose directors or stockholders are made liable by law i,r the pay· 
ment of such debt, in any event or contingency, such directors or
stockholders may be made parties to the bill, either on the filing there­
of, or in any subsequent stage of the proceedings, whenever it shall 
become neceuary to enforce such liability.
SEC. 4. If any creditor of a corporation. desire to make such direo- 
tors or stockholders parties to the suit, after a decree therein against 
the corporation, lae may do ao, on filing a supplemental bill ~
them, founded upon such decree ; and if such decree was rendered LO 
a proceeding instituted by the attorney-general,.such creditor may, OD 
his application, be made complainant therein, with or instead of the 
attorney-general, and may, in like manner, make the directorS and 
stockholdera sought to be charged, defendants in such suit.
SEC. 5. Whenever any creditor of a corporation shall seek to charge 
the directors, trustees or other superintending officers of such COl'Po" 
ration, or the stockholders thereof, on account of any liability created 
by law, he may file his bill for that purpose in the court of chancery, 
which shall possess jurisdiction to enforce such liability. 
posed" 
SEC. 6. The court shall proceed thereon as in other cases,' and when
necessary, shall cause an account to be taken of the property and~ 
debts due to and from such corporation, and shall appoint one or more
receivers, who shall possess all the powers conferred, and be subject 
to all the obligations imposed on receivers, by Article third of this
Title. 
SEC. 7. But if, on the coming in of the answer, or upon the taking
of any such account, it shall appear that such corporation is insolvent, 
and ti.at it has no property or effects to satisfy such creditor,' the court 
may proceed, without appointing any receiver, to ascertain the re­ 
spective liabilities of such directors and stockholden, and enforce the 
IIIIDI, by its decree, as in other cases.
SEC. 8. Upon a final decree being made upon any· such application 
to restrain a corporation, or upon any such bill filed against direc-
tors or stockholders, the court shall cause a just and fair distribu­ 
tion of the property of such corporation, and of the proceeds there­ 
of, to be made among its fair and honest creditors, in the order. and in
the proportions prescribed by this Title, in the case of.a voluntary dis- 
sobation of a corporation. - 
SEC. 9. In all cases in which the directors or other superintending
o8icerl or a corporation, or the stockholders thereof, shall have been 
maah plrti~s to a suit in which a decree shall be rendered, if the pro- 
perty of-such corporation shall be insufficient to discharge its debts, the 
court shall proceed to compel each stockholder to pay in the amount
dae ud remaining unpaid on the shares of stock held by him, or so 
m1&Cla thereof u shall be ~ecessary to satisfy the debts or the com- 
pany. 
SEC. 0. If the debts of the company shall still remain unsatisfied, the
court shall proceed to ascertain the respective liabilities of the direc- 
tors or other superintending officers, and of the stockholders, and to
decree the amount payable by each, and enforce such decree, as in 
other cases.
SEC. 1. Upon any application to the court of chancery, in any of the 
cases provided in this Article, such court may compel such corpora-
tion to discover any stock, property, things in action or effects, alleged 
to belong, or to have belonged to it, the transfer and disposition there-
of, and the consideration; and all the circumstances of such disposi- 
tion. 
SEC. 2. Every officer, agent or stockholder of any corporation, against
which proceedings shall be instituted, according to the provisions or•o,,n, 
this Article, and every person to whom it shall be alleged that any
transfer of any property or effects of such corporation, has been made, 
or in whose possession or control any such property or effects shall be 
alleged to be, may J>e compelled, in the discretion of the chancellor, 
to answer a bill filed to obtain any discovery, in the last aection spe­
cified, notwithstanding such answer may expose the corporation of 
which he ia a member, to a forfeiture of ita corporate rights, or any 
of them. ~ 
SEC. 3. The answers of the officers and agents of any corporation, 
shall be evidence against the corporation in the same manner and to 
the same extent, as if such answers had been given upon an exami­
nation of such officers as witnesses in the cause, and such officers may
subsequently be examined as witnesses by either party under the or· 
der of the court,
SEC. 4. But.no such answer shall be compelled, unless by the spe­ 
cial order of the chancellor, on a hearing of the parties, or by the con-
1ent, in writing, of tbe attorney-general. 
SEC. 5. Every person so answering, shall be wholly exempted and 
ed fr • di th • . 1 . and
exonerat om any m ictment or o er cnmina prosecution, 
from every action for any penalty or forfeiture, for any act done or 
omitted, the doing or omission of which shall have been se confmed
by such answer. 
SEC. 6. Whenever any bill shall be filed, or any application made
against any corporation, its directors or other superintending officers, 
or its stockholders, according to the provisions of this Title, the court
may, by injunction, on the application of either party, and at any stage 
of the proceedings, restrain all proceedings at law, by any creditor,
against the defendants in such sait ; and whenever it ahall appear• 
cessary or proper, may order notice to be published, in such manner 
u ~ court shall direct, requiring all the creditors of such corporation 
to exhibit their claims and become parties to the suit, within a~ 
able time, not lom than six months from the first publication of such 
order, and in default thereof, to be precluded from all benefit of the 
decree which shall be made in such suit, and from any distribution 
which shall be made under such decree. 
SEC. 7. The provisions of this Article shall not extend to auy iocor·
porated library 10Ciety ; to any religious corporation ; or to auy Lan­ 
casterian or select school, incorporated by the regents of the uniter­ 
sity, or by the legislature. 
ARTICLE TIIIIU). 
OJ tle Voluntary Dissolution of OorporatiOM. 
SEC. 8. Wbea directon, &c. ol corpontiODa may apply for their di11obatim­
&9, Contents of application; ,tatementa, ate. to accompuay it.
SEC. 0. Statement. to be Termed by alliduit. 
SEC. 1. Order to ao.r case, wbn to be entered. 
SEC. 2. Noti~ of auch order how to be published. 
a. Muter to tak• teltimony and report to court. 
,.._ ..._. to me original pedtioa ucl aeheclaJu.
SEC. 6. WlaeD decree f'or d.iaaolriDg, to be made; receiTen, &o. 
SEC. 8. Who may be receiven; aecarity to be given. 
111 •a JUa1d.,. iaa.n.t ud aatbority of rec.inn. 
SEC. 9. To prosecute ltoekbolden for urean on their stock.
'JO. Notice to be gin• by receinn ;· iu contents.
SEC. 1. Act. of corpontion after presenting petition, void. 
71 Debton to accout to receiver,; their powers to cli1cover debt,, &e. 
SEC. 3. Power of reeeiver1 to refer controvenies; proceedinp.
SEC. 4. Datiea ol receiven; to call meetings of crediton,. &o. 
SEC. 6. Subsisting contracts how cancellod.
SEC. 8. Commiaiou to be allowed to receinra.
'11, To retaill mome1 to cancel IUbaisting contracts.
SEC. 8. Also to meet recovery in. auiu pending.
ff. Order of payment or dobta.
SEC. 0. Seeoad ud fiaal diridend when to be made, how notiAed. 
SEC. 1. Proceedinp therein; to be final, except certaia cuea. 
SEC. 2. Recehen not to be annrenble for debts not exhibited.
88, Sarplu to be distributed among 1tockholden.
SL Application of moniet retained to meet 1ait.
85, Power or coart of chancery over receiven. 
SEC. 8. Wiien to render accout on oath to court. 
BT. Notice or in.tent to render, when ud how to be puU.W. 
SEC. 8. Daty or muter to whom account is referred.
SEC. 9. Settlement or account by court, it, eff'ect; f W'ther accoant,, A:e. 
SEC. 0. Deaee9 and orclen of court ,abject to appeal. 
tu. Certain corpontiom escepted from thi1 article. 
SEC. 8. Whenever the directors, trustees or other officers having the 
management of the concerns of any corporation, or the majority
them, shall discover that the stock, property and effects of such cor­
poration have been so far reduced by losses or otherwise, that it will
not be able to pay all just demands to which it may be liable, or 
aWord a reasonable security to those who may deal with such corpo- 
ration, ar whenever such directors, trustees or officers, or a majority 
ol them, shall, for any reason, deem it beneficial to the interests of 
the stockholders, that such corporation should be dissolved, they may
apply to .the court of chancery, by petition, for a decree dissolving 
ncb corporation, pursuant to the provisions of this Article. 
SEC. 9. Every such application shall contain a statement of the rea-
aons which induce the applicants to desire a dissolution of the corpo- 
ration, and there shall be annexed thereto, 
1. A full, just and true inventory of all the estate, both real and 
personal, in law and equity, of such corporation, and of all the books, 
vouchers and securities relating thereto : 
2. A full, just and true account of the capital stock of such eorpo-
ration, specifying the names of the stockholders, their residence when 
known, the number of shares belonging to each, the amount paid in
upon such shares respectively, and the amount still due thereon : 
s. A statement of all incumbrances on the property of such corpo-
ration by judgment, mortgage, pledge or otherwise : 
,. A full and true account of all the creditors of such corporation,
and of all engagements entered into by such corporation, which may 
not have been fully satisfied or cancelled; specifying the place of re-
aidence of each creditor and of every person to whom such engage- 
ments were made, if known, and if not known, the fact to be so stat- 
24
• 
eel ; the sum owing to each creditor ; the nature of each debt or •
mand ; and the true cause and consideration of such indebtedness, in 
each case. 
26 
SEC. 0. To every such petition, there shaU also be annexed an affi­
davit of the applicants, that the facts stated in such application, and the
accounts, inventories and statements contained therein or annexed
thereto, are just and true, so far as such applicants respectively know 
or have the means of knowing. 
26 
SEC. 1. Upon such petition, accounts, inventories and affidavit being
filed, an order shall be entered requiring all persons interested in such
corporation; to show cause, if any they have, why such corporation
should not be dissolved, before some master of the court, to be named 
in such order, at some time aml place therein to be specified, not less
than three months from the date thereof. H 
SEC. 2. Notice of the contents of such order shall be published, once
in each week, for three weeks successively, in the state paper, and in 
a newspaper published in the county where the principal place of con­ 
ducting the business of such corporation sltall be situated.
SEC. 8. On the day appointed in such order, such master shall~ 
ceed to hear the allegations and proofs of the parties, and shall LMD 
testimony in relation thereto, and shall, with all convenient speed, re­ 
port the same to the court, with a statement of the property, eWect,,
debts, credits and engagements of such corporation, and of all other 
matters and things pertaining to the affairs of such corporation.
SEC. 4. Such master shall be entitled to the use of the original peti- 
tion and schedules annexed thereto, if he require the same, by an or·
der on the clerk or officer of the court with whom they may be depo­ 
aited, and shall return the same, with his report. 
SEC. 5. Upon the coming in of the report of the master, if it shall
appear to the court that such corporation is insolvent, or that for any
reason, a dissolution thereof will be beneficial to the stockholders, and
not injurious to the public interest, a decree sha11 be entered dissolv· 
ing such corporation, and appointing one or more receivers of its et­ 
tate and effects ; and such corporation shall thereupon be dissolved,. 
and shall cease. i'7 
SEC. 6. Any of the directors, trustees or other officers of such cor- 
poration, or any of its stockholders, may be appointed receivers, who,
before entering upon the duties of their appointment, shall give such
security to the people of this state, and in such penalty, as the cou~ 
shall direct, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of their 
appointment, and for the due accounting fur all monies received bf 
them. · 
.. _1,A 
SEC. 7. Such receivers shall be vested with all the estate, real and
persooal, of such corporation; from the time of their having filed the 
security herein before required, and shall be trustees of such estate
b the benefit of the creditors of such corporation and of its stockhold- 
ers. 
SEC. 8. Such receivers ahall have all the power and authority, con- 
ferred by law upon trustees to whom an 888ignment of the estate 0£1'
insolvent debtors may be made, pursuant to the provisions of the fifth
Chapter of the Second Part of the Revised Statutes. 
SEC. 9. If there shall be any sum remaining due upon any share ofTo 
ibed i h • h • . h ll • ed. el
stoc su n m sue corporation, t e receivers s a imm iat y 
k
bsc 
proceed and recover the same, unless the person so indebted shall be
wholly insolvent; and for that purpoae may file their bill in the court
of chancery, or may commence and prosecute an action at law, for
the recovery of such sum, without the consent of any creditors of such
corporation. 
SEC. 0. The receivers, immediately on their apppointment, shall 
give notice thereof, which shall contain the same matters required by
law in notices of trustees of insolvent debtors ; and in addition there- 
to, shall require all persons holding any open or subsisting contract Qf 
such corporation, to present the same in writing and in detail to such
receivers, at the time and place in such notice specified ; which shall 
be published for three weeks in the state paper and in a newspaper 
printed in the county where the principal place of conducting tho busi-
ness of such corporation shall have been situated. 
SEC. 1. All sales, assignments, transfers, mortgages and conveyances 
oC any part of the estate, real or personal, including things in action,
of every each corporation, made after the filing of the petition for 
dissolution thereof, in payment of, or as a security for, any existing
or prior debt, or for any other consideration, and all judgments con-
fessed by such corporation after that time, shall be absolutely void as
against the receivers who may be appointed on such petition, and as 
against the creditors· of such corporation.
SEC. 2. After the first publication of the notice of the appointment of 
receivers, every person having possession of any property belonging
to such corporation, and every' person indebted to such corporation,
shall account and answer for the amount of such debt and for the
value of such property to the said receivers ; and all the provisions of 
law, in respect to trustees of insolvent debtors, the collection and pre-
servation of the property of such debtors, the concealment and disco-
very thereof, and the means of enforcing such discovery, shall be ap­
plicable to the receivers so appointed, and to the property of such cor­ 
poration •
SEC. 8. Such receivers shall have the same power to settle any con- 
troveny that shall arise between them and any debtors or creditors of:"°"• 
such corporation, by a reference, as is given by law to trustees of in-
.,}vent debtors ; and the same proceedings for that purpose shall be 
had, and with the like effect ; and application for the appointment oC
referees may be made to any officer authorised to appoint such re• 
rees on the application of trustees of insolvent debtors, who shall pro­
ceed therein in the ame manner ; and the referees shall proceed in
like manner, and file their report with the like effect in all 1'81p8Cts. 
SEC. 4. The receivers shall be subject to all the duties and obliga- 
• b I • posed f . I d b fa . th
tlons y aw im on trustees o 1080 vent e tors, 80 r as ey 
may be applicable, except where other provisions shall be herein
made. They shall call a general meeting of the creditors of such
corporation, within four months from the timo of their appointment,
when all accounts and demands for and against such corporation, and 
all its open and subsisting contracts, shall be ascertained and adjusted
as far as may be, and the amount of monies in the hands of the re­
ceiven declared. 
SEC. 5. If there shall be any open and subsisting engagements or 
contracts of such corporation, which are .in the natnre of insurances
or contingent engagements of any kind, the receivers may, with the 
consent of the party holding such engagement, cancel and discharge
the same, by refunding to such party the premium or consideration
paid thereon by such corporation, or so much thereof as shall be in the
same proportion to the time which shall remain of any risk assumed 
by such engagement, as the whole premium bore to the whole term
of such risk ; and upon such amount being paid by such receivers to
the person holding or being the· legal owner of such engagement, it
shall be deemed cancelled and discharged as against such receivers. 
SEC. 6. Such receivers shall, in addition to their actual disburse­
ments, be entitled to such commissions as the court shall allow, not 
exceeding the sum allowed by law to executors or administrators.•
SEC. 7. The receivers shall retain out of the monies in their hands, 
a sufficient amount to pay the sums, which they are herein before au-
thorised to pay, for the purpose of cancelling and discharging any
open or subsisting engagements. 
SEC. 8. If any suit be pending against the corporation or against the
receivers, for any demand, the receivers may retain the proportion
which would belong to such demand if established, and the necessary
costs and proceedings, in their hands, to be applied according to the
event of such suit, or to be distributed in a second or other dividend. 
SEC. 9. The receivers shall distribute the residue of the monies in
their hands, among all those who shall have exhibited their claims aa
creditors, and whose debts shall have been ascertained, as follows : 
29 
1. All debta entitled to a preference under the laws of the United 
States: 
J. Judgments actually obtained against such corporation, to the ex•
tent of the value of the real estate on which they shall respectively be 
liens: 
3. All other creditors of such corporation, in proportion to their re­
spective demands, without giving any preference to debta due on spe­ 
cialities. 
SEC. 0. H the whole of the estate of such corporation be not distri-
buted on the first dividend, the receivers shall, within one year there-::\. 
after, and within sixteen months after their appointment, make a se-
cond dividend of all the monies in their hands, among the creditors
entitled thereto ; of which, and that the same will be a final dividend, 
three weeks' notice shall be inaerted once in each week, in the state
paper, and in a newspaper printed in the county where the principal
place of busin888 of such corporation wu situated. 
10 
SEC. 1. Such second dividend shall be made in all respects in the,.....,....
•me manner as herein prescribed in relation to the fil'lt dividend, 
IQd no other aball be made thereafter among the creditors ¢ such
corporation, except to the creditors having suits against it, or against 
the receivers, pending at the time of such second dividend, and ex·
cept of the monies which may be retained to pay such creditors, as 
herein provided ; but every creditor who shall have neglected to ex- 
hibit his demand before the first dividend, and who shall deliver his
account to the receivers before such second dividend, shall receive 
the sum he would have been entitled to on the first dividend, before 
any distribution be made to the other creditors. 
10 
SEC. 1. After such second dividend shall have been made, the re- 
ceivera shall not be answerable to any creditor of such corporation, or
to ally person having claims against such corporation, by Tirtue of any 
open or 1ubsisting engagement, unless the demands of such creditor
ahall have been exhibited, and the engagements upon which such
claims are founded, shall have been presented to the said receivers, 
in detail and in writing, before or at the time specified by them in
their notice of a second dividend.11 
I SS. If after the second dividend is made, there shall remain any
surplus in the bands of the receivers, they shall distribute the same 
among the stockholders of such corporation, in proportion to the re-
spective amounts 'paid in by them, severally, on their shares of stock. 
SEC. 4. 'When any suit pending at the time of the second dividend,
ahall be terminated, they shall apply the monies retained in their 
bands for that purpose, to the payment of the amount recovered, and
their necessary charges and expenses ; and if nothing shall have been 
recovered, they shall distribute such monies, after deducting their ex­
penses and costs,. among the creditors and stockholders of the corpo­ 
ration, in the same manner as herein directed in respect to a second
dividend. 
SEC. 5. The receivers shall be subject to the control of the court of 
• • 
chancery, and may be compelled to account at any tune; they may be
removed by the court, and any va~cy created by such removal, by
death or otherwise, may be supplied by the court. 
SEC. 6. Within three months _ after the time herein prescribed for
making a second dividend, the receivers shall render a full and accu­
rate account of all their proceedings to the court of chancery, on oath,
which' shall be referred to a master to examine and report thereon. 
~ 87~ Previous to rendering such account the reoeiversshall inaert
a notice of their intention to present the same, once in each week, for
three weeks, in the state paper, ~ in a newspaper, of the county in
which notices of dividends are herein required to be inserted, specify­ 
ing the tim.e and place at which such account will be rendered. 
SEC. 8. The master to whom such account shall be referred, shall hear
and examine the proofs, vouchers and documents off"ered for or against
such account, and shall report thereon fully to the court. 
SEC. 9. Upon the coming in of such report, the court shall hear the
allegations of all concerned therein, and shall allow or disallow such
account, and decree the same to be final and conclusive upon all the
creditors of such corporation, upon all persons who haveclaims against 
it, upon any open or subsisting engagement, and upon all the stock-
holders of such corporation. Such receivers shall also account from 
time to time in the same manner, and with the like effect, for an mo­
nies which shall come to their hands after the rendering of such ac­ 
count, and for all monies which shall have been retained by them for
any of the purposes herein before specified, and shall pay into court
all unclaimed 'dividende. 
SEC. 0. Any decree or order of the court of chancery, made upon any 
petition presented pursuant to the provisions of this Article, or in the
course of any proceedings thereon, shall be subject to an appeal, in the
same manner as other orders and decrees of the said court, if the same
be made within six months after such order or decree made. 
SEC. 1. The provisions of this Article shall not extend to any incor­ 
porated library society, or to any religious corporation, or to any se­
lect school or academy, incorporated by the regents of the university,
or by the legislature. 
A.B.TIOLE FOURTH. 
Of Proceeding, by and againBt Public Bodies, having certain
Corporate Puwera, and by and against the Officers represent. 
ffl8 them. 
S.c. !rl. Public oflicen en11D1erated, who may bring certain actions.
SEC. 8. Baell action, may be br\)ught oo contract., &c. with their precleceuon.
9t But in certain cues to be in name of the body represented. 
m. Actions agaimt counties and toWD8, how to be brought.
SEC. 6. Actiem ~ certain publio officers, how brought; proceedinp.
SEC. 1. ID certain actiou, defendant. not to be held to bail. 
SEC. 8. Aetiom again•t of&cen on contracta of their predecessora. 
SEC. 9. Omitting name of one of aeveral officen, how waived.
SEC. 0. Suita by of&cen not to abate by death, removal, &c.
SEC. 1. New defendant not to be sub,tituted without coiuent or notice. 
SEC. 2. Judgment. agaiut certain officen to be laid before 1uperriaon. 
SEC. 0. To be added by them to tax U.t, and collected a, taxe1.
SEC. 4. County treuurer in certain cues to pay judgment..
SEC. 6. When to be paid by 1uperviaor or oveneen oC the poor. 
SEC. 7. Execution not to issue in certain cue.. 
SEC. 8. Esecutiou to it1ue -.wt certain officen; proceedings. 
SEC. 2. Actions may be brought by the supervisors of a county; by
ffi
d 
, , f l f
the loan-o cers an commissioners o oans o a county ; by county 
superintendents of the poor ; by supervisors of towns ; by overseers of
the poor of the several towns; by commissioners of common schools
and commissioners of highways of the several towns; by trustees of
school districts; and by trustees of gospel and school lots; upon any
contract lawfully made with them or their predecessors, in their offi-
cial character; to enforce any liability, or any duty enjoined by law,
to such officers or the body which they represent ; to recover any pen-
alties or forfeitures given to such officers or the bodies whom they re- 
present ; and to recover damages for any injuries done to the proper-
ly or rights of such officers, or of the bodies represented by them. 
SEC. 8. Such actions may be brought by such officers in the name of 
l.-' • ffi iths di th bli •
t~ll' respective o ces, notwi tan ng e contract or o ganon on 
which the same is founded, may have been made with or to any pre­
decessors of such officers, in their individual names or otherwise, and
notwithstanding any right of ~tion may have accrued, previous to 
the time when the officers commencing such suit entered upon the ex.
ecution of the duties of their office, 
SEC. 4. But in cases where by special provision of law, actions are
directed to be brought by or against any public bodies, in the name
of any such body, the same shall be brought or defended in such name, 
by the persons representing such body, then in office.
SEC. 5. Actions against counties, in the cases in which they are al. 
lowed by law, shall be brought against the board of supervisors there-
of, and actions against towns shall be brought against such towns by
their names; the said actions may be commenced by summons, as in
Juits against corporations, and the same proceedings shall be bad 
thereon, as are prescribed in the first Article of this Title, 
SEC. 6. Actions against the officers named in the preceding ninety­ 
second section of this Title, shall be brought against them indiYidually, 
• f.r • • th I di d roceedin th • f 
1pec1a,.mg ID e procem, pea ngs an p gs, 811' name O
fli d h • be d • th 
o ce; an sue actions may commence m e same manner as
against individuals; but the defendants shall not be held to bail in
any case unleu upon the order of a judge of the court in which the
action is commenced, founded upon proof by affidavit, that the same 
is brought for some personal misconduct in office, or .upon some per­
sonal liability assumed or incurred, by such defendants in their official
character. 
SEC. 7. In actions against county superintendents of the poor of any 
• 
county, and agamst overseers of the poor of any town, to enforce any 
liability of such county or town, or to recover any sum of money,
damages or expenses, which such county or town may be liable to
pay, the defendants shall not be held to bail. 
SEC. 8. When any contract shall have been entered into, or any lia- 
bility shall have been incurred, by or in behalf of any county or town, 
by any officer thereof within the scope of his authority, the same re­
medies may be had against any successor of such officer, in his offi­
cial character, as might have been had against such officer, if he had 
continued in office. 
SEC. 9. In suits against any of the officers named in this Article, the 
omission to name any other officer in the process or declaration, may 
be pleaded in abatement ; and if not so pleaded, such omission aball 
be deemed to have been waived, and shall not be objected in any other
stage of the proceedings. 
SEC. 0. No suit commenced by or against any officers named in
this Article, shall be abated or discontinued by the death of such ofti­ 
cers, their removal from, or resignation of, their officers, or the expire-
tion of their term of office ; but the court in which any such action
shall be pending, shall substitute \he names of the succes&On in
such office, upon the application of such successors, or of the advene 
party. 
SEC. 1. But before any new defendant shall be so substituted with·
out his consent, at least fourteen days' notice of the application for
that purpose, shall be personally served on him. 
SEC. 2. If judgment be rendered for any debt, damages or costs, 
• t th ho d 1• • f • th
agams e ar o supervisors o a county, agamst e county SU· 
perintendents of the poor of any county, against any town or the SU· 
pervisor thereof, or the overseers of the poor thereof, on account of
the liability of such county or town ; and such judgment be not sus­ 
pended by writ of error or otherwise, or be not paid and satisned be­
fore the next annual meeting of the board of supervisors of the coun· 
ty, a certified copy of the docket of such judgment, or the record 
· thereof, if required by such board, shall be laid before the board
supervisors of the county at some annual meeting thereof. 
! 1 OS. The board of supervisors shall add the amount of such
. d th "th . h f th ti f 
JU gment, toge er w1 mterest t ereon rom e ime o recovery, 
to the first Monday in February then next, and also the expenses
the certified copy of the docket or record of judgment mentioned in the 
preceding section, to the tax to be laid upon the county or town 
against which, or against the officers of which, such reeovery shall
have been had ; which sums shall be assessed, levied and collected, 
as other contingent charges of such town or county, and shall be 
paid by the county treasurer, to the person recovering such judg-
ment. 
SEC. 4. But if the treasurer of the county, against which, or against
h
ffi h 
O 
dgm hall be h d h uffi 
w ose o cers, sue JU ent s a , ave s cient monies
his hands belonging to such county, not otherwise specifically appro­ 
O O 
priated, he shall be bound to pay the amount of such judgment, upon
the production of a certified copy of the docket thereof, or of the re- 
cord, if required ; and if he shall fail to do so on demand, he shall be
personally liable for the amount of such judgment, with the interest, 
to be recovered in an action by the party in whose favor such judg-
ment was rendered, or his representatives. 
SEC. 5. If the supervisor of a town or the overseers of the poor of 
town, against whom any judgment shall have been rendered, which
shall not be suspended by writ of error or otherwise, have sufficient 
monies in their hands belonging to their town, not specially appropriat-
ed, they shall in like manner pay the amount of such judgment and
the interest thereon, upon the like evidence; and for a failure so to do,
they shall in like manner be responsible personally to the party in
whose favor such judgment was obtained. 
SEC. 6. If the recovery be had against a town in its own name, the
.supervisor thereof shall, in like manner and upon the like evidence,
pay the amount thereof with interest, out of any monies in his hands 
belonging to such town, not specially appropriated; and for a failure
to do so, shall be personally responsible for such amount, to the party
in whose favor such judgment was obtained. 
SEC. 7. When a judgment shall be recovered against the board of
supervisors, or the county superintendents of the poor, of any county, 
or against aay town, or the supervisor or the overseers of the poor
thereof, no execution shall be awarded or issued upon such judgment,
unless the same shall have been rendered for the costs of a suit com-
menced by any of the said officers in their individual names ; in which 
cases, such costs shall be collected of the plaintiffs individually, and
the amount thereof shall be allowed to them in their account of offi- 
cial expenditures, by the board authorised to audit such accounts, if
such suit appear to have been necessarily commenced in good faith. 
SEC. 8. In suits by and against loan-officers, commissioners of loans, 
• • f h 1 d . . f hi h
eomrmssioners o common sc oo s, an comnussioners o g ways, 
trustees of school districts, and trustees of gospel and school lots, the
debt, damages or costs recovered against them, shall be collected in
the same manner as against individuals; and the amount so collected,
shall be allowed to them in their official accounts. 
OF SUITS AGAINST SHERIFFS, SURROGATES AND OTHER OFFICERS.
ON THEIR OFFICIAL BONDS. 
S1tc. I. When and to whom application (or leave to ne 1beri.1''1 bond.
2. Proof and papen to accompany application.
S. Order for pl'Olecution; 1uit bow to be brought.
4. Pleading, proceediaga and judgmentl thereon,
5. Judgment not to bar 1uita for other delinquenciee.
8. Other partiea may apply during 1uit or aftet judgment.
7. Suita by them not to be affected by other 1uit1 or judgmeutl. 
8. Same plaintiff'may 1ne for new delinquency. 
9. Scire faciu upon judgmenta for delinquency prohibited. 
SEC. 0. Suit, on inch bond• printe mita, &c.
SEC. 1. Judgment and coats against relator u plaintiff. 
SEC. 2. Matten nece11ary to be 1tated with plea of judgment reeonred.
SEC. 3. In what cue1 1uretie1 to be acquitted on 111ch plea.
SEC. 4. When to be acquitted of a portion of the claim.
SEC. 5. Direction on es:ecution ~nit sheriff' and 1uretie1.
SEC. 6. When execution again1t bodies to i11ue.
SEC. 8. Distribution of monie1 collected among senral plaintil'a.
SEC. 9. Application to sue 1DJTOgate'• bond, when to be made.
SEC. 0. Proof to 1upport it; 1uit how to be proaecuted.
SEC. 1. Proceedings in 1uits on bonds of register and u1i1tant.
22.. Suita by their 1uccea1ors; distribution of recovery.
2S. Suits on bond, of clerlu in chancery; proceedin~. 
SEC. 5. Suita on bondsofcountyclerk ofNew-York.
26 & ZT. Suits on bonds of manhah of cities. 
SEC. 1. Whenever a sheriff shall have become liable for the escape of
any prisoner committed to his custody, or whenever he shall have been 
guilty of any default or misconduct in his office, the party injured
thereby, may apply to the supreme court for leave to prosecute the 
official bond of such sheriff. 
82 
SEC. 2. Such application shall be accompanied by proof of the default
or delinquency complained of, and that no satisfaction for the same 
has been received ; and by a certified copy of such official bond.
SEC. 3. Upon such application and proof, the court shall order that 
such bond be prosecuted ; and the applicant shall thereupon be au­
thorised to prosecute the same, in the said supreme court only, in the
name of the people of this state, stating in the process, pleadings, pro­
ceedings and record in such action, that the same is brought on the 
relation of such applicant. 
TITLE V. 
SEC. 4. In such actions, the same pleadings and proceedings shall be 
bad, as are provided by law in the case of suits upon bonds, with other
conditions than for the payment of money, except as herein otherwise 
provided, and judgment shall be rendered for the defendants, in the 
like cues. 
SEC. 5. But such judgment shall not be a bar to any other suit that 
may be brought on the same official bond, by the same plaintiff, or by 
any other plaintiff, for any other delinquency or default of such sheriff,
than such as was assigned as a breach of the condition of such bond,
in the action in which such judgment was rendered. 
11 
SEC. 6. During the pendency of any suit upon such official bond, or
after judgment rendered in such suit, any other party aggrieved by 
the default or delinquency of such sheriff, may, in like manner, ap- 
ply to the supreme court for leave to prosecute such official bond. 
SEC. 7. Upon such leave being granted, the applicant may prosecute
such bond, in the manner herein before provided ; and the pendency 
of any other suit, at the relation of any other person, on the same bond, 
or a judgment recovered by or against any other person on such bond,
shall not abate, or in any manner affect such suit, or the proceedings
therein, except as herein provided. 
SEC. 8. Any person who may have recovered any judgment upon 
h ffi 
"al bo d • lik I r. I • 
sue o ct n , may, m e manner, app y tor eave agam to pro-,ne.
secute such bond, whenever he is aggrieved by any other default or 
delinquency than such as shall have been the subject of the former
action, and shall proceed therein in like manner as herein before pro­ 
vided. 
SEC. 9. No acire faciaa shall be brought upon any judgment render- 
ed
h th
h
1
. h , d 
upon sue official bond, by e party at w ose re ation sue JU g-
ment was obtained, or by any other person, for any breach of the con-
dition of such bond. 
SEC. 0. Every suit brought upon such official bond, and every judg-
ment rendered therein, shall be deemed the private suit and judgment of 
the party on whose relation the same shall be brought or obtained ; such
suit may be discontinued and the relator may be non-suited, as in pri-
vate suits ; and the judgment therein may be cancelled and discharg-
ed by the relator, in the same manner as if he were the nominal plain- 
~ and shall be deemed satisfied, in the same cases as judgments by
individuals. 
SEC. 1. If the suit be discontinued, or the relator be non-suited, or
judgment be rendered for the defendants, upon verdict, demurrer, or 
otherwise, costs shall be awarded against the relater, as if he were 
the nominal plaintiff, and judgment shall be rendered for such costs, 
and execution thereon awarded against him, in the same manner. 
SEC. 1. No such suit shall be barred, nor shall the amount 'tvbich
tho plaintiff' may be entitled to recover therein be affected, by any 
plea or ·notice made br any surety i~ such bond, of a_ judgment reco- 
vered thereon, unl818 1t be accompanied by an allegation that the sure- 
ties in such bond, some or one of them, have been obliged to pay the 
d~magea asse1sed in such judgment, or some part thereof; for the want
of sdicient property of such sheriff" whereon to levy the same, or that 
they will be obliged to pay the same, or some part thereof, for the 
tame reason ; nor unless such plea or notice be verified by the oath 
of the defendant making the same. 
, lS. If it appear that the amount of any damage, so recovered,
which. such 1urety has been obliged to pay, or will be obliged to pay, 
11 ~ified in the last section, is equal to the amount for which such 
defendant shall be liable, by virtue of the bond, he shall be -.aiuitted 
and discharged of all further liability, and judgment shall be rendered
in hia favor. 
SEC. 4. If it shall appear that the amount of any damages so recover-
ed, and which such surety bu been obliged to pay, or which he will 
be obliged to pay, is not equal to the amount of such surety's liability, 
the amount thereof shall be allowed to such defendant, in eatimating
the extent of his liability in any such action. 
I to. Whene.-er a judgment shall be obtained against a aheritf and 
his 'IUl'etiea, a direction shall be endorsed on the execution issued 
thereon, by the attorney issuing the same, to levy the amount of such 
execution, in the tint place, of the property of such sheriff, and if sut. 
ficient property of such sheriff" cannot be found to satisfy such exeeu­ 
tion, then to levy the deficiency of the property of the sureties. 
SEC. 6. In every such case of a judgment against a sheriff and his 
sureties, no execution against the bodies of the defendants shall be 18· 
sued, until an execution against their property shall have been return· 
ed unsatisfied, in whole or in part. 
SEC. 7. Whenever several judgments shall be obtained at the same 
term, upon any official bond of a sheriff, for damages amounting in
the whole to more than the sums for which the sureties therein shall 
be liable, the supreme court shall order the monies levied upon such 
judgments, from the property of the sureties, to be distributed to the
relators respectively in such judgments, in proportion to the amount 
of their respective recoveries. u 
SEC. 8. If executions be issued upon several judgments obtained at
the same term, upon any such official bond, and sufficient monies shall 
not be raised to satisfy all of the said executions, the supreme court 
shall distribute the monies collected on such executions, to the rela- 
84 
, 
ton respectively in such judgments, in proportion to the amount of
their respective recoveries. 
18 
SEC. 9. Whenever the surrogate of any county shall be guilty of any 
default or miscondsot in his office, the party aggrieved thereby tnay
apply to the court of chancery for leave to prosecute the official bond 
of such surrogate. 
f !O. Such application shall be accompanied by the same proof 
h
• • , d 
erem required in proceedings on sheriff's bonds; an upon such
leave being granted, the applicant shall be authorised to prosecute 
such bond in the name of the people of this state, in the supreme court 
only, in the same manner, with the like etfeot, and subject in all re- 
spects to the provisions herein contained, in respect to 1uita on the • 
ficial bonds of sherilfa ; and the supreme court shall poue• the same 
powers in relation to such suit..
SEC. 1. In suits upon the official bonds of the register and the assist- 
ant-register of the court of chancery, prosecuted by the order of the
chancellor, the same proceedings shall be had, and such suit shall be 
prosecuted and judgments rendered therein, in the same manner here­ 
in prescribed in relation to suits on the official bonds of aherifli, ex·
eept as herein otherwise provided. 
SEC. 2. If there shall have been any delinquency of such register or
, . . t' "- . , 
assistant-reg1ster, m not accoun mg tor, or paymg over, any momes
belonging to the common fund appertaining to the court of chancery, 
the chancellor shall order his bond to be prosecuted in the name of the
people of this state, on the relation of the successor in office of such
register or assistant-register; and the same proceedings shall be had
therein as in other cases, except that when there shall be a deficiency 
in the monies collected on such bond, to satisfy all the judgments that 
may have been recovered, a preference shall be given in the distri- 
bution of such monies, to judgments recovered on the relation of pri- 
vate parties, over the judgments recovered on the relation of the sue-
ceaor to such register or assistant register. 
SEC. 8. In suits upon the official bonds of clerks in chancery, the 
same proceedings shall be had, as are above provided in suits upon the
official bond of the register in chancery. 
SEC. 4. Proceedings for the prosecution of any official bond given 
by the clerk of the city and county of New-York, may be had in the,:::::"
manner herein directed in respect to official bonds of sheriffs, except 
that applications for that purpose may be made to the court of com: 
mon pleas of the said city and county, and such suit may be brought
in the said court, or in the superior court of law of the said city and 
county. 
SEC. 5. The said courts shall proceed in such suits, in the ID8DD8I' 
herein directed, in respect to suits on sheriff's bonds ; and all the pow­
ers of the supreme court in relation to such bonds, and the proceed- 
ings, judgment and executions therein, are hereby conferred on the
said courts, in suits upon the official bond of the said clerk. 
SEC. 6. Proceedings for the proeecution of any official bond given by 
any marshal of any city, may be had in the manner herein directed 
in respect to official bonds of sheriffs, except that applications tor that
purpose may be made to the mayor's court of the city, and such suit
may be brought in the said court. 
SEC. 7. The said court shall proceed in such suit, in the manner
herein directed in respect to suits on sheriff's bonds ; and all the pow­
ers of the supreme court in relation to such bonds, and the proceed­ 
ings, judgments and executions therein, are hereby conferred upon the 
said court in suits upon the official bond of such marshal. 
!!!!!! 
TITLE VI. 
OF ACTIONS FOR PENALTIES AND FORFEITURES; AND PROVISIONS
FOR THE COLLECTION AND REMISSION OF FORFEITED RECOGNI·
ZANCES, AND FINES I'MPOSED BY COURTS. 
AaT. 1.-0factiona for penalties and forfeitures, 
AaT. !.-Provisions respecting the collection and remisaion of 6nea impoacd by co~
and of forfeited recognizances. 
ARTICLE FIRST. 
OJ .Actionafor Penalties and Forfrituru. 
Sac. 1, Actiom that may be brought for forfeiture,, ~c. 
Z. To be pl'OleCuted like penonal actiom.
8. Such action, by cliltrict attorney, public of&cen, &o.
4. Penal.tie., 1:c. incvred on riven, &c. where 1ued for.
SEC. 6. Proriaiom rupecting 1uita by common informen.
7. Endonemeat on fint proceaa in 1uita for penaltiu, &c
8. In what COUDtiea actioaa for penaltiu, 1:c. to be brought. 
9. When to be brought againat public of&cen.
SEC. 0. Mode or declaring for penalty, &o. in action of debt.
SEC. 2. Alao in u1ump1it and uover. 
SEC. 8. General issue may be pleaded: eridea.ce under it. 
SEC. 4. Replication in actions by common informcn.
SEC. 6. Actiona where precile penalty i1 not specified. 
SEC. 1. When a pecuniary penalty or forfeiture is specially granted 
by law to any person injured or aggrieved by any act or omission of 
another, the same may be sued for and recovered in an action of debt,
or in an action of assumpsit ; and if it be a forfeiture of any property,
it may be sued for and recovered in an action of trover, or other 4p­ 
propriate action.
SEC. 2. Every such action shall be prosecuted and conducted in the 
same manner as other personal actions in all respects, except as here­ 
in otherwise. provided ; and shall be subject to all the provisiom of 
law concerning amendments of the process, pleadings and records
therein, and concerning the abatement of such suits by death or other- 
wise, and all other provisions concerning personal actions not incon- 
sistent with this Title.
, S. Actions brought by the attorney-general, or by the diBtrict at- 
tomey of any county, or by any public officer for the recovery of any
peaalty or for.Gl.iture, shall also be conducted and prosecuted in the 
same manner as personal actions, and shall be subject to all the pro- 
viaiom of law concerning personal actions, not r_epugnant to the pro-
visions of this Title. And whenever any penalty or forfeiture shall 
be recovered, which is not specially granted by law to the party ag-
grieved; or to any o~cer ; or to, or for the use of, any county, town, 
or other body politic ; or for the use of the poor of any place ; or to 
any person who will prosecute ; or which shall not be otherwise spe-
cially appropriated ; the same shall be paid into the treasury of the 
state, for the use of the people thereof.
SEC. 4. When any penalty or forfeiture shall be imposed by law, for 
• ted • 
any offence commit on any river, lake or other stream of water, 
and such river, lake or stream shall be situated in two or more coun- 
ties, an action for the recovery of such penalty or forfeiture, may be
brought by the proper officer, in any county bordering on such river, 
lake or stream, and opposite to the place where such offence was com- 
mitted ; and a recovery in such action shall be a bar to any other
suit,_by any other public officer, for the same offence. 
SEC. 5. ~ere any penalty Or forfeiture is given by law to any person
who will~ for the same, such suit shall be brought in the name orr:;~;~ 
the person commencing the same, who may appear by attorney ; and
it shall be conducted and prosecuted in all respects in the same man- 
ner as personal actions, and shall be subject to the provisions of law
concerning personal actions. 
SEC. 6. No such suit shall be deemed to be commenced, until process 
shall be actually delivered to an officer to be executed ; which process 
shall not be re-delivered to the plaintiff in any case, but shall he re­ 
turned to the court from which the same issued ; and no such action 
shall be compromised or compounded, without the leave of the court 
in which it shall be pending. 
87 
SEC. 7. Upon every process issued for the purpose of compelling tbe
appearance of the defendant to any action for the recovery of any pe- 
nalty or forfeiture, shall be endorsed a general reference to the statute
by which such action is given, in the following form : "According to 
the provisions of the statute regulating the rate of interest on money," 
or "according to the provisions of the statute concerning sheriffs," as 
the case may require, or in some other general terms referring to such
statute.• 
<•> 
SEC. 8. Every action for a penalty or forfeiture, shall be brought in
the county where the act was done, upon which such penalty or for­ 
feiture attached ; and if brought in the supreme court, the venue in
such action shall be laid in such county. 
SEC. 9. Where such penalty or forfeiture attaches in consequence of
th . , 
e olDllllion of any public officer to perform any duty incident to bis
office, the action shall be brought for the recovery thereof, and the ve­
nue shall be laid, in the county of which such person was an officer. 
SEC. 0. In actions of debt brought to recover any penalty or forfeit-
ure given by any statute, it shall be sufficient, without setting forth
the special matter, to allege in the declaration, that the defendant is
indebted in the amount of such penalty or forfeiture, to the officer, per­ 
son or body, for whose use the same is given ; whereby an action ac­
crued according to the provisions of such statute, naming the subject
matter thereof, in the following form: " According to the provisions
of the statute concerning sheriffs," naming the section, Title and Chap­
ter of such statute, as the case may require, or in some other similar 
terms referring to such statute. 
SEC. 1. Whenever an action of assumpsit shall be brought for the 
recovery of any penalty given by any statute, it shall be sufficien~
without setting forth the special matter, to allege in the declaration, 
that the defendant being indebted in the amount of such penalty, ac­
cording to the provisions of such statute, referring to the same as pre­
scribed in the last section, undertook and promised to pay the same. 
SEC. 2. If an action of trover be brought to recover any goods or other
thing !orfeited by the provisions of any statute, the declaration mayal- 
lege that such goods or other things were forfeited according to the 
provisions of such statute, referring to the same as prescribed in ~e 
foregoing sections, and that the defendant converted the same to his
own use, without setting forth the special matter. 
~ 1 S. To every declaration for a penalty or forfeiture, the def~· : 
ant may plead the general issue ; that he owes nothing, or that he did
not undertake and promise, as alleged in such declaration ; or that he 
is not guilty of the premises charged ; as the case may require, ~ 
may give in evidence under such plea, any special matter, which, if
pleaded, would be a bar to such action, or discharge the defendant 
therefrom, in the same manner and with the like effect as if the same I 
had been pleaded specially.as• 
SEC. 4. In any suit for a penalty or forfeiture, brought by any ~n /
other than the party aggrieved, or other than any public officer, a I 
former recovery, or acquittal, or other bar to such action be pI~edJ , 
the plaintiff may reply, that such recovery, acquittal or bar, was;. 
by covin and fraud ; and if such replication be confessed or establ 
I 
1 
eel, the plaintiff shall recover in such action, notwithstanding such 
pfea.40 
SEC. 5. Where any act is prohibited by law, under a penalty not ex-Wherw 
---~:- ' ified · h I · be b h
u,t'!IUWg any given sum spec m sue aw, an action may roug t 
for such specified sum ; and the jury, or justice before whom the trial 
eball be had, shall award such sum so specified, to the plaintiff, or
such part thereof as shall be deemed proportioned to the offence. 
AllTlVLE SECOND. 
ProoiliorM respecting the Collution and Remiaaion of :Pana im­ 
,o,ed by Court,, and of Fttrfrited Recosn~ancu. 
SEC. 8. Order on jaror not penona.Dy ,e"ed to 1laow caue lpimt he. 
SEC. 7. Bow order to be IDlde by circwt comt.
SEC. 8. Cledt to clelinr copy of order to lheriJI". 
SEC. 9. Sherin'to ae"e order; when and where to make retlll'D. 
IO. Proeeedingl OD return by eherifr. 
SEC. 1. ID what cue, court to ,tay proceeduap. 
SEC. 1. 
SEC. 8. Proeel• to be iuaecl by dietrict attonaey; it. ccaeat.. 
IL Scbeclale to be UDUed to proceu; ib content.. 
SEC. 6. 
SEC. 8. When to return procei•; how compelled,
17, New proceu to be i,ned Cor fines not collected,
SEC. 9. All penou thu 11ned, to be included in new proeeu. 
SEC. 9. Saita oa iecognizllleea; judgment to be for paalty. 
a>. Bseclliiou upon ncb judgment,, 
SEC. 1. Bow recognizance, to be eatreated. 
SEC. 2. Dutrict attorney to pay llloniea collected to coanty treua.rer.
SEC. 1. FiDe9 impo,ed by mayon' coarte, where to be paid. 
U. AccoUDt to be rendered manually by diatrict attorney . 
•. When 6nt retara to be made, 
•• Content. o( &nt ~ nblequent retun,. . 
SEC. 7. Common pleu may remit fines and reeopizance,. 
SEC. 8. Limitatiou, Ice. apon power of remitting.
•· Notico 0Capplication1 to remit, to be giTen dietrict attomey. 
SEC. 0. Concurrence of 6nt judge neceanry, to remit.
SEC. 1. Cost, of collecting fine, ~o. to be paid in all cuea. 
SEC. 2. Remitting 6nea impo,ed by 1pecial 1euiou and jutieee. 
SEC. 8. Certain prorieiom of this title not to apply to New-York. 
SEC. 6. When any grand or petit juror shall have been summoned to
attend any court, by leaving a notice in writing at his place of resi- 
dence, the court shall suspend the imposing of a fine for his default in
not attending pursuant to such summons, until the next term or sitting 
thereof; and shall cause an order. to be entered in the minutes of the
court, that such defaulting juror show cause, on the first day of the then 
next term of such court, why a fine should not be imposed on him. 
SEC. 7. If such default shall have happened at a circuit court, such
order may direct the defaulting juror to show cause on the first day 
of the then next term of the court of common pleas of the county in
which such circuit court shall be sitting. 
41 
SEC. 8. The clerk of the court by which such order aball be made, 
shall immediately deliver to the sheriff of the county a copy of enry 
such order. 
SEC. 9. Such sheriff shall serve such order on the defaulting juror
named therein, personally; and shall return such order, and his pro­ 
ceedings thereon, to the court and at the time, at which such juror 
shall be required to show cause.
SEC. 0. If. the sheriff shall return such order personally served, the 
court shall proceed to impose such fine as shall be proper ; and if the 
same be returned not served personally, the court shall make a further
order, that such defaulting juror show cause, at the then next term,
why such fine should not be imposed ; and the sanie proceedings shall 
be had upon such order, as herein provided in respect to the first order.
Such orders shall be entered from term to term, until the same shall
be personally served, or the juror appear. 
SEC. 1. But if it appear from the return of the sheriff, or from any
other evidence, that such juror is dead, or insane, or has permanent-
ly removed from the state ; or if any satisfactory excuse shall be ren­ 
dered by any person in behalf of such juror, for his default, the court
may abstain from any further proceedings in relation to such defaulL u 
SEC. 2. When a fine shall be imposed by any court oflaw upon any
d . . bl r. d {o 
gran or petit JUror, or upon any consta e, ,or non-atten ance, or r
any other cause, or upon any officer of such court, or upon any other
person, without being accompanied by an order for the immediate
commitment of the person so fined until such fine be paid, it shall be 
the duty of the clerk of such court immediately to deliver a copy of
the order imposing such fine, to the district attorney of the county in 
which such court shall be sitting. 
SEC. 3. The district attorney shall immediately after the adjoum-
ment of such court, issue process under the seal of the court of com-
mon pleas of the county, to the sheriff thereof, commanding him to 
collect of the several persons named in the schedule annexed to 111ch
process, the several sums affixed to their names respectively, in such
schedule, and to pay over the same to the treasurer of the county;
and that at the time of collecting the same, he notify such persons re­ 
spectively, that if. they have sufficient matter to show for remitting
such fines, they may show the same to the court of common pleas of
the county, on the first day of the then next term thereof. 
SEC. 4. To such process shall be annexed a schedule, containing in
separate columns, 
1. The names of the persons fined : 
2. Their respective places of residence : 
s, The amount of the fine imposed on each: and, 
,. The ca1118 of auch fine being impoeed: · · 
Which echedule ahall be certified by the district attorney to con-~
tain a true abstract of the orders imposing such fines, delivered to him 
by the clerk.
SEC. 5. The sheriff to whom such process shall be directed and de- 
livered, shall proceed to collect the amount of such fines respectively,
of the several persons named in such schedule, by a levy and Ba\Je of 
the personal property of such persons, in the manner provided by law, 
in the service of executions against property in civil cases, and shall
be entitled to collect the same fees ; and in cue sufficient personal 
property cannot be found to raise such amount, such sheri.tr shall take
the body of the person named in such schedule, and detain him in eus- 
, tody, until he shall satisfy such sum, in the same manner ason exe­
cutions against the body in ·civil cases, and shall be entitled for hii 
services to the like fees. ·
SEC. 6. Every sheriff to whom any such process shall be delivered, 
shall return the same at the then next term of the court of common
pleas of his county, after such delivery, with his proceedings thereon ; 
and such return may be compelled in the same manner as civil pro:-
eess, 
SEC. 7. If it shall appear by any such return, that any fine has not
been collected, the district attorney shall issue new process similar in=.'° 
all respects to the first process herein directed ; and such process shall
be issued from time to time, until such fines shall be collected, and
the same proceedings in all respects shall be had thereon, as herein 
provided. 
SEC. 8. But whenever a district attorney shall issue any process for
the collection of any fine, he shall include in the schedule annexed to~
such process, the names of all persons upon whom any fine shall at 
that time have been imposed, and the process against whom has been
returned unsatisfied, or against whom no process shall have been is- 
wed for the collection of such fine.
SEC. 9. Whenever any recognizance to the people of this state shall 
have become forfeited, the district attorney of the county in which 
lftlch recognizance was taken, shall prosecute the same, by action of
debt for the penalty thereof; and the proceedings and pleadings there- 
in, shall be the same in all respects, as in personal actions for the re- 
covery of any debt, except that it shall not be necessary to allege or
prove any damages by reason of a breach of the condition of such ~ 
~anoe; but on such breach being found or confessed, or upon a
Judgment by default being entered against the defendants, tile. judg. 
lllellt shall be absolute for the penalty of the recognizance. 
I SO. Executions shall be awarded and executed upon such judgi-
fQent in the same manner as upon judgments in penonal actions, .- 
lritla the like effect in all respects. 
a St. Whenever any recognizance is -directed by law to be estreat· 
eel, such eetreat shall be made by the entry of an order directing the 
aame to be proeecu&ed; and the same shall be proeecuted as herein 
directed. 
i SI. The district attorney of every county, shall pay over to the 
county treasurer thereof, the amount of all monies collected by him
upon recognizances, or for penalties or forfeitures belonging to the
county, after deducting therefrom his reasonable costs and expenses, 
and such reuonable counael fee as the court of common pleas of his 
county shall think fit to allow, if any, by an order to be entered in 
their minutes. · 
, SS. But whenever any fine shall have been imposed bv any 
mayor's court of any city, such fine, subject to the deductions speci- 
fied in the last section, shall be paid into the treasury of such city. 
SEC. 4. The district attorney of any county, at the term of the court
of common pleas of his county, held in the month of January, in earb 
year, or if there be no such term, then at the first term held after the
month of ~ anuary, in each year, shall render to such court, on oath, 
an account in writing, of all suits brought by him upon recognizances,
or for penalties or forfoitures belonging to the county or to the state ; 
of his proceedings in such suits ; and of all monies collected by him
therein, and recovered by him of any person' belonging to such county 
or to the state. 
SEC. 5. Such return shall be made at the first January term of the
court of common pleas of every county which shall be held in the
year next after this Title shall take effect as a law; or if there be no 
such January term, then at the first term which shall be held after 
the month of January, in such year ; and shall be made annually
thereafter. 
SEC. 6. Such first return shall embrace all suits and proceedings in-
stituted by him, for the recovery of the penalty of any recognizance; 
all procea iasued, and proceedings had by him, for the collection of
any fines ; and all monies received by him, belonging to the county
or to the state; since his appointment to such office of district a~­ 
ney ; and every subsequent return shall include all such matters smce
the previous return made by him. 
~ S7'. Upon the application of any person, who shall have been 
fined by any court of law sitting in any county of this state ; or ~f
any person whose recognizance shall have become forfeited, or of hJS
eurety; the court of common pleas of the county, in which such court 
was held, or in which such recognizance was taken, may, upon ~
cause shown, remit any such fine, or any such forfeiture of rec~· 
zance, or any part of such fine, or of the penalty of such recognt" 
zance, and may discharge such recognizance, upon such term• as to 
J 
• 
such court shall appear just and equitable. IC any such fine shall
have been paid, the officer or county treasurer in whose hands it may 
be, shall pay the same, or such part as shall have been remitted, ac-
cording to such order. 
43 
SEC. 8. But the last section shall not authorise such court to remit
any fine imposed by any court of oyer and terminer or general sessions 
of the peace, upon a conviction for a criminal offence ; nor any fine
imposed by any court upon any officer thereof, or any party therein, or
upon any other person for an actual contempt of such court, or for dis­ 
obedience of its orders or process ; nor to remit or discharge any recog­
nizance taken in one county, for the appearance of any petson in anoth­
er, but the power of remitting or discharging such recognizance, shall 
be exercised exclusively by the court of the county in which such per­
son ahall be bound to appear. 
SEC. 9. No such application shall be heard until reasonable notice
lball have been given to the district attorney of the county, and until 
he ahall have had an opportunity to examine the matter, and prepare
to resist such application. 
SEC. 0. No such application shall be granted, without the concur-
rence of the first judge of the county courts of such county, if there 
be one, and he be present ; and such concurrence shall be expressed
in the minutes of the order granting any remission of a fine, or of the
penalty of a recognizance, or of any part thereo£ 
43 
SEC. 1. Nor shall such application in any case be granted, without
payment of the costs and expenses incurred in proceedings for the col- 
lection either of such fine or the penalty of such recognizance. 
SEC. 2. When any person shall have been fined by any court of spe-
cial sessions of the peace, or by any justice of the peace, upon a con-
viction for any offence, and shall have been committed to jail, until 
such fine shall be paid, the court of common pleas of the county may
remit auch fine, or any part thereof, and may discharge such person
from his imprisonment ; and shall exercise such power, in the manner,
and subject to the provisions herein contained, in relation to fines, 
and penalties of recognizances. 
SEC. 8. The provisions of this Title respecting the collection of fines 
and recognizances, or the payment over of the amount thereof, shall 
not apply to the city_ and county of New-York, but the proceedings
for such pnmnr1a in that county, shall be accordir_ig to the laws now in 
force. - r--- ----- 
OF PROCl!EDUfGS FOR. THE ADMEASUREMENT OF DOWER. 
SEC. 1. When ud to whom widow may apply for u1ignmem or dower. 
I. Petition aud notice, when uul on whom to be 1enecL
8. Senice bow to be made; when to be publi1hed . 
._ GUldlua to be appoiatecl (or ia&at laein and OWDel"I, 
G. All DOUCel to be 1ened OD l1ICb. guazd.iau, in all cue,, 
8. When hein, b, may require widow to apply (or dower. 
'I, WlleD bun, ltc. may apply to haye •ower ..tmeanrecl. 
S. Petitioa ud DOtiee when uul bow to be 1UTod, 
9. Powen of ccnart on application to order admeuurement.
SEC. 0. ComminioDen to be appomted; land to be 1peci.fted. 
n. Oath ol oommiaicners. 
SEC. 2. Vacanciea in com11aiHionen bow 111ppliecl, &c.
U. Dutlea to be uecoted by co11U11U1ionen. 
H, Ealupg time for report; compelJing tepQrt, ltc,
U. Report to be &eel ud entered at large.
SEC. 8. ~rt may be ,et uide; or confirmed. 
17, El'eet or admeuarement upon being confirmed,
SEC. 8. Widow may maintain ejectment; 1ubject to tue1, &c. 
SEC. 9. Appeala fi'Olll N11UDOD pleu •d nm,gate, when to be made.
SEC. 0. Appell llow made; boDcl to be gina, 
ZI, Papen to be certified to 111preme court. 
n. Proceeclhap or supreme caart on the appeal.
II. Upon rH·enal or admeuurment, further proceediap. 
SEC. 4. Upoa aflinnance, coat. bow taxed; effect of aflirmance,
•· Co.ti pDflftlly, how tuod uul by wbGm to be JUI. 
2S. Bow paid in cue or appeal.
SEC. 1. Practice in bearing appeal,; noticu, &c. 
, t: Any widow who shall not have had her dower ;migned to 
• 
TITLE VII. 
her, w1thm forty days after the decease. of her husband, may apply,
by petition for the admeasurement of her dower, to the supreme court ;
or to the court of common pleas of the comrty in which the land,
subject to dower lie ; or to the surrogate of the same county ; speci­ 
fying therein the lands to which she claims dower. u
!. A copy oC such petition, with notice of the time and place 
when it will be presented, shall be served, at least twenty daye pm­
vious to its preaentation, upon the hein of her hUBband ; or if they are 
not the owners of the lands subject to dower, then upon the owners
of l\lch lands claiming a freehold estate therein ; or their guardians,
when any 1uch heirs or owners are minors. 
IS. Such notice may be served personally, on any party of Ml
age ; or upon the guardians of minors ; or by leaving the same with 
any person of proper age, at the last residence of sucli party « guar­ 
dian, in case of his temporary absence ; and if any n.da heir or owa­
er be a reaident out of this state, the service of such notice may be 
UpPll the tenant in actual occupation of the Janda, or if there he no
tenant, by publishing the same for three weeks successively, in mme 
newspaper printed in the county where such lands are situated.
4. Where such heirs or owners are minors, and have no guar- 
dian, the court or surrogate, on application of the widow, shall appoint 
aome discreet and substantial freeholder a guardian of such infants, for 
the sole purpose of appearing for and taking care of, the interest of~ 
such infants in the proceedings. 
SEC. 5. Notice of the application for the admeasurement of dower, and 
. . 
all notices m the subsequent proceedings, shall be served on such guar-
dian, whether the infant reside within this state or not. 
SEC. 6. After the expiration of forty days from the death of any bus- 
band, his heirs, or any of them, or the owners of any land subject to 
dower, claiming a freehold estate therein, or the guardian of any such
heirs or owners, may, by notice in writing require the widow of such 
husband to make demand of her dower, within ninety days after the 
service of such notice, of the lands of her deceased husband, or of such 
part thereof as shall be specified in such notice. 
46 
SEC. 7. IC such widow shall not make her demand of dower, within 
the time specified in such notice, by commencing a suit, or by an ap-
plication for admeasurement, as herein prescribed; or if such widow 
ahaH not make such demand within one year after her husband's death,
although no notice to that effect shall have been given ; the heirs of 
the husband of such widow, or any of them, or the owners ol any lands 
subject to dower, claiming a freehold interest therein, or the guardian 
of any such heirs or owners, may apply, by petition, to the SUJ>reme
court, or to the court of common pleas of the county where such lands 
are situated, or to the surrogate of the same county, for the admeasure-
ment of the said widow's dower of the lands of her husband, or of such 
part thereof as shall be specified in the said petition.46 
SEC. 8. A copy of such petition, with notice of the time and place of~"~­
presenting the same, shall be served personally on such widow, twenty 
4ays previous to its presentation. 
SEC. 9. Upon such application being made, either by a widow, or by 
any heir or owner, or by the guardian of such heir or owner, the su- 
preme court, or the court of common pleas, or the surrogate to whom
the same shall be made, may upon bearing of the parties, order that
admeasurement be made of such widow's dower of all the lands of her 
husband, or of such part thereof as shall have been specified in such 
application. 
41 
SEC. 0. Such court or surrogate shall thereupon appoint three re- 
potable and disinterested freeholders, commissioners, for the purpose 
of making suoh admeasurement, by an order which shall specify the 
t.... of which dower is to be admeasured, and the time at which the
comroiaionen aliall report. •6 
I t t. The com'inissioners so appointed, before entering upon their
duties, shall be sworn, before the surrogate who appointed them, or be- 
fore some officer authorised to take affidavits, that they will faithfully, 
honestly and impartially discharge the duty and execute the trust re. 
posed in them by such appointment. 
47 
SEC. 2. If the persons so appointed commissioners, or either of them,
shall die, resign, or neglect or ref use to serve, others may be appoint­ 
ed in their places, by tho court or surrogate who appointed the first
commissioners, and shall take the same oath. 
SEC. 8. The commissioners so appointed, shall execute their duties 
u follows: 
1. They shall admeasure and layoff, as speedily-as possible, theone­
third part of the lands embraced in the order for their appointment, as
the dower of such widow, designating such part with posts, stones or
other permanent monuments : 
2. In making such admeasurement, they shall take into view any 
• th ds b ced • the "d
permanent improvements made upon e Ian em ra in &a1 
order, by any heir, guardian of minors, or other owners, since the death
of the husband of such widow, or since the alienation thereof by such 
husband; and if practicable, shall award such improvements within
that part of the lands not allotted to such widow; and if not practica­
ble so to award the same, they shall make a deduction from the lands
allotted to such widow, proportionate to the benefit she will derive
from such part of the said improvements, as shall be included in the 
portion· assigned to her:
a. They shall make a full and ample report of their proceedings, 
with the quantity, courses and distances of the land admeasured and
allotted by them to the widow, with a description of the posts, stoDeS 
and other permanent monuments thereof, and the items of their charges,
to the court by which they were appointed, at the time specified in the
order for their appointment: 
,. They may employ a surveyor, with necessary assistants, to aid
them in such admeasurement. 
48 
SEC. 4. The court or surrogate appointing such commissioners, may,
upon their application, or that of either party, enlarge the time for 
making their report ; and may, by order, compel such report, or dis­
charge the commissioners neglecting to make the same, and appoint
others in their places. 
SEC. 5. Such report shall be filed and entered at large in the minutes
of the court to which the same shall be made, or in a book to be pro- 
vided by the surrogate for that purpose, when made to him. 
SEC. 6. The court or surrogate, to whom such report shall be made,
may, at the time appointed for receiving the same, or at such other
time to which the hearing shall have been adjourned, on good cause
shown, set aside the said report, and appoint, as often as may be ne­
cessary, new commissioners, who shall proceed in the manner herein 
49 
before directed : and if not set aside, the said court or surrogate shall,
by order, confirm the said report and ad measurement. 
SEC. 7. The admeasurement so made and confirmed, shall, at the
expiration of thirty days from the date of such confirmation, unless ap- 
pealed from, be binding and conclusive, as to the location and extent
of the said widow's right of dower, on the parties who applied for the 
same, and on all parties to whom notice shall have been given, as
herein before directed. But no person shall be precluded thereby 
from controverting the right and title of such widow to the dower so 
admeasured. 
60 
SEC. 8. The widow to whom dower shall be admeasured, at the ex-
piration of thirty days from the date of the said confirmation, unless 
the same be appealed from, may bring and maintain an action of
ejectment to recover the possession of the lands so admeasured to her 
for her dower ( in which her right to such dower may be controvert- 
ed) and upon recovery, may hold the same during her natural life, 
subject to the payment of all taxes and charges accruing thereon sub-
tequent to her taking possession. 
61 
SEC. 9. Where the commissioners have been appointed by a court
of common pleas, or by a surrogate ; the widow, and any heir or 
owner of lands affected by the proceeding, or the guardian of such
heir or owner, may, within thirty days after the order of confirmation
of the report of the commissioners by such court or surrogate, appeal
from such order, to the supreme court, in the manner herein after di· 
rected.12 
, !O. Such appeal shall be filed with the surrogate or with the clerk
of the court granting such order ; but shall not be effectual or valid
for any purpose, until a bond to the adverse party shall be executed 
by the appellant, and filed with such surrogate or clerk, with security
to be approved by the surrogate or a judge of the court by which such
order was made, and to be evidenced by an endorsement on such bond, 
in the penal sum of one hundred dollars, conditioned for the diligent
Prosecution of such appeal, and for the payment of all costs that may 
be adjudged by the supreme court against such appellant; and no other
notice or proceeding shall be necessary to perfect such appeal. 
SEC. 1. It shall be the duty of the surrogate, or the clerk of the court 
with whom such appeal and bond shall be filed, on receiving the
amount of his fees for the service, to transcribe the petition, affidavits, 
~otices, orders, reports, and all other proceedings on the said applica-
tion, together with the said appeal, to certify them under his official
seal, and to transmit the said copies to the supreme court. 
SEC. 2. The supreme court shall proceed to hear and determine the
said appeal, and to review all the proceedings upon the said applica-
tion, and shall do therein what shall be just. 
62 
SEC. 8. In case of the reversal of the order of confi.rmation, tbe court 
shall cause the same to be certified to the surrogate or court of com- 
• 
mon pleas, makmg such order, to the end that new commilllioners 
may be appointed, or a new admeasurement may be had, as the su-
preme court shall direct ; or the said supreme court may proceed to 
appoint commissioners to make admeasurement, in the same maaaer
as upon an original application to such court, and the like proceed­
ings shall be had thereon. 
SEC. 4. In case of the affirmance-of the order of confirmatioo of any 
surrogate or court of common pleas, the supreme court may abo ill 
its discretion, award costs to be paid by the appellant, and to be tued
as the said court shall direct ; and the original order of oonfirmation,
and the ad measurement confirmed thereby, shall 1?6 binding and con­ 
clusive, and authorise an action of ejectment, as herein before spe­ 
cified. 
SEC. 5. All costs and expenses arising on any proceedings oa sucla 
application, shall be taxed by the surrogate or a judge of the court in 
which such proceedings shall be had ; and when such application ii 
made in the supreme court, and also when made to a surrogate, or
court of common pleas, and no appeal shall be made from the order
of confirmation, the said costs and expenses shall be paid equally, the 
one-half thereof by the widow, and the other half by the adverse party. 
SEC. 6. When an appeal is entered, then such costs shall be paid by 
the party applying for such admeasurement ; and if the admeasure­
ment be affirmed on such appeal, the supreme court in awarding 001tB,
shall require the party appealing, to pay the one-half of such coets and 
expenses before the surrogate or court of common pleas, if he have not
before paid the same. 
SEC. 7. The hearing of an appeal by the supreme court, shall be 
brought on by notice, and shall be conducted as other special mo­
tions ; and notices of the hearing, and all other neceuary notices in 
the said court, may be served on any party, not residing wi~in this 
state, by leaving the same with the surrogate or the clerk of the court 
from whose order the appeal is made, for the use of such party. And 
the supreme court may, by rule, direct further returns from an7 sur­
rogate or court of common pleas, whenever the same shall be ner.es­ 
sary, ar.d may establish such rules to regulate the practice on such ap­
peals, as the said court may deem expedient. 
TITLE VIII. 
OF PROCEEDlNGs FOR T~E COLLECTION OF DEMANDS AGAINST slfll'S 
AND VESSELS. 
SEC. 1. Debta enumerated which are lien• 011 TeHela.
2. When lien to ceue in diff'erent cuea. 
8. Who may apply for warrut, ud to what oflicen, • 
SEC. 4. Coatenta of applieation; how to be nrifted.
G. Warrant to be ia1ued; ill contenll.
6. Warrant how executed and returned with inftlltory,
7, Until fint warnnt be 1111pended, no other to iuae. 
SEC. 9. Notice to be pubU.bed; ill coatenll. 
SEC. 0. Other cnditon bow to become interated in prooeediap.
SEC. 1. Liem not preaented, to ceue,
SEC. 2. Who to apply for cliacharge or na1el. 
U. Bond to be ginn by applicant.; it1 content,. 
14.. Order of cliacurp when to be granted; itl eft"eet.
U. Bond for whom to be held and how proaecuted 
SEC. 6. Mode of declaring oa bond by creditors.
JT, .Pleu 1,y defendant; proceedingl in nit. 
SEC. 6. 
SEC. 9. When for defendant, and award of COlll, 
SEC. 1. Order for ale of n11el when to ilne; it. content,.
SEC. 1. Sberift' how to proceed in ale. 
SEC. 1. To retarn hi1 proceeding• ud retain proceeda oC we. 
SEC. 4. Notice toownen ohe11ela, &c. how and when to be publi1bed.
SEC. 5. Proceed, ot ale to be diltributed, unleu claim be coateated.
SEC. 8. ha cue of coatelt, written objection, to be filecl. 
SEC. 1. Proceediup to obtain referee, to determine on claim.
SEC. 2. Powen, datie1 and compemation of referee,. 
SEC. 1. Their report when to be &ed; effect thereof.
SEC. 4. Exceptiom to report; proceedings thereon.
SEC. 6. II report oon4nned, cliatribution to be made accordingly.
16.. Order for that purpoae; application of1urplm monies. 
in. Proportionate distribution if there be not 1dicient for .U. 
SEC. 8. Commillion1 o( aherifl' on monie, receind.
a Proceedinp when and where to be .6ted by oflicer. 
SEC. 0. Report of officer bow far eridence. 
SEC. 1. Enon may be corrected by court, &c.
SEC. 2. Sberifl'bow compelled to retW'D innntory, &c. 
G. Application of thui Title, u to certain n11ell. 
~ t. Whenever a debt, amounting to fifty dollars or upwards,
shall be contracted by the master, owner, agent or consignee of any:=-• 
ship or vessel, within this state, for either of the following purposes, 
1. On account of any work done, or materials or articles furnished
in this state, for or towards the building, repairing, fitting, furnishing 
or equipping such ship or vessel : 
2. For such provisions and stores furnished within this state, as
may be fit and proper for the use of such vessel, at the time when 
the same were furnished :
s. On account of the wharfage and the expenses of keeping such 
..-eilel in port, including the expense incurred in employing persons
to •atch her : 
Such debt shall be a lien upon such ship or vessel, her tackle, ap­
parel and furniture ; and shall be preferred to all other liens thereon, 
except mariners' wages. 
61 
~ !. When the ship or vessel shall depart from the port at which
ehe was, when such debt was contracted, to some other port within 
this state, every such debt shall cease to be a lien, at the expiration 
or twelve days after the day of such depsrture ; and in all cases such 
lien shall cease immediately after the vessel shall, have left this 
~state.64 
SEC. 3. Any person having due to him the sum of fifty dollars or up- 
wards, upon any debt contracted for any of the purposes herem be- 
fore specified, may make application to any officer authorised by law 
to perform the duties of a justice of the supreme court at chambers, in 
the county within which such ship or vessel shall then be, or in the 
city of New-York to any justice of the superior court of law therein, 
for a warrant to enforce the lien of such debt, and to collect the 
amountthereot65 
SEC. 4. Such application shall be in writing, and shall specify, 
1. By whom such debt was contracted, and for what ship or res- 
sel: 
2. The items composing such debt : 
s. It shall be verified by the affidavit of the creditor, or of the per­
son making the application in his behalf, stating that the sum claimed 
in such account is justly due to the person in whose behalf such ap­ 
plication is made, over and above all payments and discounts:
And the facts and circumstances to establish such demand, shaU 
also be verified by the affidavits of one or more disinterested wit· 
nesses. 
SEC. 5. The officer to whom such application shall be made, shall 
thereupon issue his warrant to the sheriff of the county, commanding 
him to attach, seize and safely keep such ship or vessel, her tackle, 
apparel and furniture, to answer all such liens as shall be established 
against her according to law; and to make return of his proceedings
under such warrant to the said officer, within ten days after such sei· 
zure. 
SEC. 6. The sheriff to whom any such warrant shall be directed and 
delivered, shall forthwith execute the same, and shall keep the ship 
or vessel and other property seized by him, to be disposed of aa here­ 
in after directed. He shall also, within ten days after such seizure, 
make a return to the officer who issued the warrant, stating therein 
particularly his doings in the premises; and shall make out, sub­ 
scribe, and annex thereto, a just and true inventory of all the property 
so seized ; which inventory shall be signed by him, and 81lnexed to
his return. 
SEC. 7. Whenever any such warrant shall be issued, no other war· 
rant shall issue against the same ship or vessel, unless the first war· 
rant be superseded. 
SEC. 8. The officer issuing any such warrant, shall thereupon Imme­ 
diately order the notice herein after directed, to be published in one
or more of the newspapers printed in the county to which the war· 
• 
rant shall be issued ; and if there be none printed in such county,
then in a newspaper printed nearest to such county, once a week for 
three months successively, or oftener, if he shall deem proper.
SEC. 9. Such notice shall contain the following matters: 
1. It shall state the issuing of such warrant, the name of the ves-
sel seized, the port or place to which she belongs, and the name of 
her last commander : 
s, It shall require all persons who claim to have any demands
against the said ship or vessel, her tackle, apparel or furniture, under 
the provisions of this Title, to deliver an account of their respective
claims, to the said officer, within three months from the first publica­ 
tion of such notice ; or that their remedy against such vessel will be 
forfeited: 
3. It shall state that such vessel will be sold for the payment of
the claims against her, unless the owner, consignee or commander
thereof, or some person interested therein, appear and discharge such
warrant according to law, within three months from the first publica­
tion of such notice. 
SEC. 0. Any persqn having any lien under the provisions of this Ti-
tie, upon the property so seized, may deliver tothe said officer, an ac-::;:rnr:­ 
count in writing of his demand, accompanied by such affidavit and
proofs as are herein before prescribed, in relation to the first applica- 
tion by any creditor; and he shall thereupon be deemed an attach-
ing creditor, and be entitled to the same benefits and advantages, and 
subject to the same responsibilities and obligations, as the creditor at
whose instance such warrant originally issued. 
SEC. 1. All liens under this Title, upon the property so seized, an
account of which shall not be presented to the said officer, within the 
time limited in the notice, shall cease.
SEC. 2. The owner, consignee, agent, or commander of any vessel 
seized by virtue of any warrant issued pursuant to the provisions on=:· 
this Title, and any person interested in such vessel, may, at any time
before the appointment of trustees as herein after mentioned, apply in
person or by _attorney, to the officer who issued such warrant, for an 
order to discharge the same.
SEC. 8. Such person shall execute and deliver to the officer to whom 
such application is made, a bond to the creditors prosecuting such
warrant, in a penalty at least double the amount of the debts sworn 
to by such creditors, with such security as shall be approved by such
officer, conditioned that the obligors therein will pay the amount of all 
such claims and demands as shall have been exhibited, which shall
be established to have been subsisting liens upon such vessel pursu- 
ant to the provisions of this Title, at the time of exhibiting the same
respectively. 
SEC. 4. Upon such bond being executed and delivered, the laid ofti­
cer shall thereupen grant his order, duichargi.ng the warrant that may 
have been illued by him ; and no further proceedings against the
vessel BO seiz~, shall be h~ under the provisions of thia Title, found- 
ed upon any demands included in such bond. 
SEC. 5. Every such bond shall be held for the common benefit of all
the attaching creditors, and may be prosecuted by any of them joint- .
I1, or by any one of them separately, in respect to his separate de­ 
mand.· 
SEC. 6. In the suit upon such bond, the attaching creditors respect­
ively shall state in their declaration, their respective demands, al­
leging the work to have been done, or the materials or articles fur­
nished, or the expenses incurred, at the request of the master, owner,
agent or consignee of such vessel, as the case really was, averring
that the claim therefor was a subsisting lien on such vessel at the 
time of the exhibition thereof as herein before provided ; and shall u­
sign as a breach of the condition of such bond, the non-payment of the
claim of such creditor. 
i t 'f. To such declaration the defendants may plead as in other ac-
tions of debt on bond, and may plead to such assignment of breaches ; 
and the same proceedings shall be had on such bond, as provided by
law on bonds with other conditions than for the payment of money • 
SEC. 8. If it shall be found by the return to a writ of inquiry in such 
suit, or by the verdict of the jury impannelled to try any issue joined
therein, that the sum of fifty dollars or upwards was due to any plain- 
tiff" in such suit, upon any claim or demand which, by the provisions, 
of this Title was a subsisting lien upon such vessel, at the time of the
exhibition thereof as herein provided, judgment shall be rendered that 
such plaintiff' have execution for the amount of such claim. 
SEC. 9. But if it shall so be found that nothing, or a less sum than 
fifty dollars, was due to any plaintiff in such suit as specified in the
last section, judgment shall be entered against such plaintiff', that he
take nothing by his writ ; and the court shall award to the defen­ 
dants the costs incurred by them in resisting the claim of such plain­ 
tiff. 
SEC. 0. If the creditors who shall have exhibited their claims u
herein provided, shall not have been satisfied, and if such warrant 
shall not have been discharged as before prof ided, within the time 
for that purpose limited, the officer who issued the same, within one
month after tho expiration of the time so limited, upon due proof of
the pnblicationof the notice herein required, shall issue his order to 
the sheriff who seized the vessel under such warrant, directing such 
sheriff" to proceed and sell the vessel so seized, her tackle, apparel and 
furniture, and shall state in such order the amount necessary to be 
raised to satisfy such claims and expenses. 
SEC. 1. If it shall appear to such officer, that the claims exhibited 
before him, and the expenses of.the proceedings, can be satisfied by a 
sale of the tackle, apparel and furniture of such vessel, or of some
part thereof, without selling such vessel, he shall modify his order 
accordingly. 
i H. Within twenty days after the service of such order, the she- 
riff shall prcceed and sell the vessel so seized by him, her tackle, ap-
parel and furniture, or such part thereof as shall be sufficient to satis-
fy the claims exhibited and the expenses incurred, upon the same 
notice, in the same manner, and in all respects subject to the provi- 
sions of law in case of the sale of personal property upon execution.
SEC. 8. The shemf shall return to the officer granting such order, 
his proceedings under the same; and the proceeds of such sale, after
deducting his fees and expenses in seizing, preserving, watching and 
aelling such vessel, shall be retained by such sheriff in his hands, to 
be distributed and paid as herein after directed. 
SEC. 4. At the time of issuing any such order of sale, the officer 
granting the same, shall order a notice to be published in the same
newspaper in which the notice of seizure was printed, as herein be- 
fore directed, once in each week for three weeks, requiring all per- 
sons who have exhibited any claims against such vessel, and the own-
er, agent, consignee, master, and all other persons interested in such 
vessel, to appear before him at a day therein to be specified, not less
than thirty days and not more than forty days from the first publica- 
tion of such notice, to attend a distribution of the proceeds arising
from the sale of such vessel, her tackle, apparel and furniture. 
SEC. 5. On the day appointed in such notice, the officer shall hear
the allegations and proofs of the parties, and make distribution of the 
proceeds arising from such sale, after deducting the expenses of the
proceedings, among the creditors who shall have exhibited their 
claims as herein provided ; unless the claims of such creditors, or of
some of them, be contested by the owner, agent, consignee or master 
of such vessel, or by some other of such creditors. 
SEC. 6. In case of such contest, the party making the objection, shall 
file with the officer a written statement thereof, and his desire that the
claims so objected to, be referred to referees, to examine and report 
thereon.
SEC. 7. The party making such objection, and the creditors whose 
claims are contested, may agree upon three indifferent persons, by a
. Writing to that effect, signed by them and filed with such officer. 
SEC. 8. If such referees be not so selected by agreement, then the
party making such objection, shall nominate two disinterested per- 
sons, and the creditor or creditors whose claims are contested, shall 
also nominate two indifferent persons ; or if either of them refuse or
neglect, the officer before whom the proceedings are pending, shall 
name two indifferent persons for tha party or parties so refusing or
neglecting. 
SEC. 9. The names of the persons thus nominated, shall be written
on four distinct pieces of paper, as similar in all respects· as may be, 
which shall be rolled up separately and put into a box ; and from
thence the said officer shall draw out three of them ; and the persons 
whose names are so drawn, shall be the referees to determine the con­ 
troversy. 
SEC. 0. The officer before whom they. shall be selected, shall certify
such selection in writing, and deliver a duplicate of the same, or of 
the written agreement of the parties appointing referees, to each of the 
parties. 
SEC. 1. Such certificate or agreement shall be filed in the office of
the clerk of the supreme court, or, if such vessel was seized within
the city and county of New-York, with the clerk of the superior court 
of law therein, or with the clerk of the court of common pleas there­
of, as shall be directed by such officer; and a rule shall thereupon be 
entered by such clerk, in vacation or in term, appointing the per80DS 
so selected, referees to determine such controversy. 
SEC. 2. Such referees shall have the same powers, and be subject to 
d 
the like duties and obligations, an shall receive the same compensa-
tion, as referees appointed by the supreme court, in personal actions
depending therein. 
~ SS. The report of the referees shall be filed in the same office
where the rule for their appointment was entered, and shall be con­ 
clusive on the parties, if not vacated by the court to which it was
made. 
SEC. 4. Either party shall have the same right to except to such re­
port, as in cases of reference during the pendency of a suit, and the 
court shall proceed thereon in the like manner; and may, in its dis­ 
cretion, appoint new referees, and direct a new hearing. J udgmcnt
for costs shall be rendered against the failing party, and execution shall 
be awarded thereon, as in other cases. 
SEC. 5. Upon the final report of such referees being confirmed, the
officer before whom the proceedings were pending, shall proceed to 
make distribution of the proceeds of the sale of such vessel, her tackle,
apparel and furniture, after deducting the expenses of the proceedings
before him, among the attaching creditors according to such report. 
SEC. 6. When a distribution shall be made by such officer, pursuant
to either of the foregoing provisions, he shall make an order on the 
sheriff having such proceeds in his hands, directing him to pay the 
ame to the several attaching creditors e1:1titled thereto, according to 
1111ch distribution, and the same shall be paid accordingly; and all mo-~
nies remaining in the hands of such sheriff, after such payment, and
after deducting his commission, shall be paid to the owner, agent, 
consignee or master of such vessel.
SEC. 7. If the proceeds arising from the sale of any vessel, shall not 
be sufficient, after deducting all legal charges, to satisfy all the liens
against such vessel, exhibited as herein provided, the officer ordering 
such sale, shall order a fair and just distribution of such proceedsamong 
the creditors, whose claims shall have been ascertained by him or by
the report of referees as herein provided, in a just and equal propor-
tion to the amounts of such claims respectively. 
SEC. 8. Every sheriff shall be entitled to a commission of five per
cent. on all monies received by him, pursuant to the provisions of this 
Title.
SEC. 9. Every officer who shall issue any warrant, pursuant to the 
~ • • • hall h 1· • ffid • d l'. 
aoregomg provisrons, s cause t e app ications, a avits an proo.1s
presented to him by the attaching creditors, and copies of all warrants
issued, and all orders made by him, with a bill of the fees and expen-
ses allowed by him, and a report of all the proceedings had before or
done by him, to be filed in the office of a clerk of the supreme court,
or if such vessel was seized in the city and county of New-York, with 
the clerk of the superior court of law, or with the clerk of the court of
common pleas thereof, within thirty days after the order for distribu- 
tion made by him.
SEC. 0. Such report, and a duly certified copy thereof by the clerk, 
shall be conclusive evidence, that the proceedings stated therein were
bad before such officer. 
SEC. 1. Upon such report being made, the court may correct any er-
rors that shall appear to have been committed in the proceedings, and 
make such order as shall be just, and may remit the proceedings, to
the officer who issued the warrant, or the court may proceed to do
such acts and things as shall be necessary. 
SEC. 2. Every sheriff to whom a warrant may have been delivered,
may be compelled, by the officer having jurisdiction over the proceed- 
ings thereon, to return the inventory required to be taken by him, and 
to pay over monies in his hands, pursuant to any order for that pur- 
pose, by an order of such officer, and by process of attachment for dis­ 
obedience thereof, on the application of any creditor.
SEC. 8. No proceedings under this Title to enforce the liens author- 
ised by the provisions thereof, shall be had against any vessel which
shall have been seized by virtue of process issuing from any court or-·
the United States having admiralty jurisdiction, while such vessel is
actually held under such seizure ; nor against any vessel which shall 
have been sold by order of such court, except for debts contracted af­
such ale ; but nothing in this section contained shall be construecl 
to impair the validity of any liens created by this Title, the payment 
of which shall be decreed in any court of the United States. 
OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE RECOVERY OF RENT AND OF DEMISED
PREMISES. 
AaT. 1.-0C distren Cor rent. 
AaT. 2.-0Cthe recovery oCpouession of demiled premile,:ror non-payment of rent, by 
ejectmeot. 
ARTICLE FIB8T. 
OJ DiBtrea, for luflt. 
Ssc. I. Right to cli1tnln in certain cue,, aftertenuacyended. 
2. Diatre11 not to be made (or rent NCOYerecl by jllClgmeat. 
8. Otlicen who are aathoriaed to make cliatreu.
4. Bond of certain otlicen in New-York, respecting cli,treuu.
5. Diatreue1 not to be driven oat of tOWD except to pound.
8. Beut., &c. taken at one time, to be kept in one place.
7. Penalty for Tiolating two Jut sections.
8. Amount of rent due to be ,worn to, &c. before cliatreu. 
9. Oflicen when ud where to file wanBt ud atliclaTit; penalty. 
SEC. 0. Article, liable to di,tre.1 for rent enamented. 
SEC. 1. Article, diltrained how 1ecured, &:c. 
SEC. 2. Cattle feeding on highways, &c. may be didrained.
SEC. 3. Certaba articlea not to be diatnined while othen ca be Coad.
SEC. 4. Certain property not to be di.trained; liability or otlicer.
SEC. 5. When good.a remoTed may be 1eized.
SEC. 6. To be clone within six moathl; good• ,old, &c. not liable. 
SEC. 7. Penalty on tenant and othen removing good.a to aToid rent. 
SEC. 8. Search warrant for good, relllO'f"ed, when to be granted.
SEC. 1. 
SEC. 0. Beuu cli1trained, where to be kept; right. of owner,
fl. Property distrained may be kept on premiaea, &c. 
SEC. 2. Notice to be giTen tenant when remoTed to any other plaee.
2S. Penalty for re1cue or pound-breach.
24, Notice ofdiltrea1, amomat due and innntory, to be giTea to taut. 
U. When and bow goocll clittnined to be appnhed. 
SEC. 6. s.le of good,; notice thereof; application of procoedl,
SEC. 7. Penalty for cli1training when no rent i1 due. 
SEC. 8. llenab!y for irregularities in di1training.
SEC. 9. How defendant may plead in certain action, of trupu,. 
SEC. 1. Within six months after the determination of any lease &
life, or for years, or of ,any tenancy at will, any person haring rent 
due upon such demise in arrear, may distrain for such arrears, either
upon any goods remaining on the demised premises, or upon any 
goods that may have been removed, in the same manner, within the
same time, and under the same provisions and restrictions, as if such 
lease or tenancy had not ended. Ge 
!!!!!!!! 
TITLE IX. 
SEC. 2. No distress shall be made for any rent for which a judgment
shall have been recovered in a perso~al action. 
I S. Every distress for rent shall be made by the sheriff of the 
county, or one of his deputies, or by a constable or marshal of the 
• 
City or town Where the goods are, who shall condutt the proceedings 
throb
ug out. 
SEC. 4. The official bond of every constable and marshal of the city 
and county of New-York, shall contain a condition for the faithful
performance of his duty in making any distress, and for the payment 
of any rent collected by him ; and any person aggrieved, shall have 
the like remedy on such bond, as in case of the non-payment of mo- 
ney collected by any such constable or marshal on execution.
SEC. 5. No distress shall be driven out of the town where it shall be 
k
• • 
ta en, except to a pound within the same county, not above three
miles distant from the place where such distress shall have been ta­ 
ken." 
SEC. 6. All beasts, or goods or chattels taken as a distress at one time,
shall be kept, as near as may be, in the same place. 68 
SEC. 7. Whoever shall violate either of the provisions contained in
the two last sections, shall, for every offence, forfeit to the party ag­ 
grieved, fifty dollars, besides being answerable to such party for all 
damages sustained thereby ; which damages may be recovered in the
same action, or in another suit, at the election of such party. 
SEC. 8. No officer shall proceed to make distress for rent, Wlless there 
be
ed
d
I
• red 'th h . fdistre flid . 
annex to, or e rve WI , t e warrant O 18, an a avtt 
made by the landlord for ~hose benefit the distress is to be made, or
by his agent or receiver, before some officer authorised to administer 
oaths, specifying the amount of rent due; and the time for which it 
accru~-; . 
SEC. 9. Within ten days after any goods that shall have been distrain- 
ed
~ d aft h good h II h 
ior rent, by any officer, shall be sol , or er sue s s a ave 
been replevieJ, such officer shall file in the office of the town clerk, 
the original warrant of distress, with the original affidavit of the land-
lord, his agent or receiver, delivered with such warrant. In the city 
and county of New-York, in the city and county of Albany, in the
cities of Troy, Hudson and Schenectady, such warrant and affidavit
aball be filed in the office of the clerk of the county. Any officer vi­ 
olating this provision, shall forfeit fifty dollars to the person whose 
property shall have been distrained.
SEC. 0. The following articles shall be liable to be distrained for 
rent • 
. 
1. Goods, wares, merchandize, utensils, fumiture,cattle, provisions,
and all other personal chattels, except such as are by law exempt from 
sale under executions in civil cases, and such as are by law exempt
from distress : 
2. Things annexed, for the purpose of trade or manufacture, to the
freehold, or to any building, and not fixed into the wall of web bQild­ 
ing, so as to be essential to its support :
a. Wheat, corn, or any kind of grain, grass, hops, roots or other 
produce, whether growing upon the demised premises, or whether the 
same be in cocks, or sheaves, or loose, or in the straw, in any barn
or granary, or elsewhere upon the land charged with the rent. 
SEC. 1. All goods or chattels that may be lawfully distrained, may
be cut; gathered, secured, locked up and detained, in such place on
the premises, as may be moat convenient, or in such other place as 
may be provided by the landlord, and approved by the officer ma·
king the distress ; but the articles enumerated in the second subdivi·
sion of the last section, and the produce of the soil in the ground, i 
shall not be removed, until after a sale thereof as herein provided. H 
SEC. 2. It shall be lawful for the landlord to distrain any cattle or
stock of the tenant, feeding or pasturing upon any common, in any 
way belonging or appurtenant to the premises charged with rent." 
SEC. 3. Beasts of the plough, sheep, and the implements of a me-
chanic's trade, shall not be d.istrained for rent, until other chattels suf. 
ficient for the demand can not be found. eo 
SEC. 4. Personal property deposited with a tenant, with the consent 
• , • , 
of the landlord, or hired by such tenant, or lent to him, with the like
i'i'&.ru,ent, shall not be dist~ for any rent due to such landlord; nor 
shall any property belonging to any other person than the tenan~ 
,,,, which shall nave accidentally strayed on the demised premises, or
which shall be deposited with a tavern-keeper, ~ th~-~f_e2: of 
~my ware-house, in the usual course of their business, or deposited 
with a mechanic or other person, for the purpose of being repaired
or being manufactured, be subject to distre~ or sale fo! ~nt ; but the i 
officer making the distress, shall not be liable for se1zmg or selling
property not belonging to the tenant unless before such ·taking or
sale, notice of the claim of a third~ given to such ofti~r. 
SEC. 5. Any goods or chattels of ~he t~~t, which shall be carried 
off from any demised premises, either before or after any rent shall be·
come due, such rent being left unpaid, may be seized as a distrees for i 
any rent due at the time of such seizure, wheresoever they shall be
found, within thirty days after their removal, if any rent be due at tJte 
time of such removal, or shall become due within the said thirty 
days: and if no rent be due or become due, within that time, then
such seizure may be made at any time within thirty days after the
rent shall become due : and the goods so seized, shall be sold, as if
they had been distrained upon the demised premises. 
91 
69 
1 
SEC. 8. Such seizure shall not be valid in any cue, unless made 
within six months after the removal of such goods ; and no such.~ 
goods shall be liable to be seized, which shall have been sold before
such seizure made, in good faith and for valuable consideration, to a 
person not privy to such fraudulent removal. 
SEC. 7. Any tenant or lessee, who shall remove his goods from any
demised premises, either before or after any rent shall become due,
for the purpose of avoiding the payment of such rent ; and every per- 
BOn who shall knowingly assist such tenant or lessee in such removal,
or in concealing any goods so removed ; shall forfeit to the landlord
of the demised premise~ his heirs or assigns, double the value of the 
goods so removed or concealed.u
SEC. 8. Whenever.it shall satisfactorily appear to a~y justice of the 
peace, by the affidavit of any landlord, or of any other competent wit-
ness, that any goods so removed from any demised premises, have 
been put or are kept in any house, out-house, or other place for the
purpose of preventing their being seized as a distress for rent, such 
justice may issue his warrant to the officer authorised to make Ruch
distress, commanding him to go with the landlord or his agent, in the 
day time, to the house or place named in such warrant as that where 
the said goods are kept, to search for the same, and if need be, to
break open such house, or any enclosed place, and to seize such goods 
as a distress. 
68 
SEC. 9. All distresses for any rent, shall be reasonable; and who-
ever shall take an unreasonable distress, shall be liable to an action 
on the case, at the suit of the party aggrieved, for the damages sus-
tained thereby •14 
SEC. 0. Whenever any beasts are distrained for any cause, they shall 
be put in open pound, in the same county where they shall be taken,
or in some convenient place on the premises, or in such other place 
as the officer distraining shall appro\·e, and the owner of them may 
give them their feeding without disturbance, so long as they shall be
impounded. ea · 
SEC. 1. Whenever beasts are impounded, or any goods that haven 
been distrained, are secured and kept on the premises charged with
rent, they may be kept on the premises until sold ; and it shall be law- 
.ful for any person to come and to go, to and from, such place or part
of the premises, in order to view, appraise, buy, or to remove the same 
when purchased. 
81 
SEC. 2. Whenever any cattle that have been distrained, shall be im- 
pounded, or any goods distrained, shall be secured in any other place 
than on the demised premises, due notice in writing, of such place,
shall be immediately given by the person making such distress, to the 
tenant, by personally serving the same, or in case of his absence, by
leaving the same at his place of abode, with some person of mature 
age.ee 
~ 2S. Upon any pound breach, or rescue of any cattle, goods or
chattels, distrained for rent, the person aggrieved thereby, shall, in an 
action of trespass, or in a special action on the case, for the wrong
thereby sustained, recover treble the damages that shall be 888e88ed by
the jury, against the offender in any such rescue or pound breach, or
against the owner of the goods .distrained, in case the same be after­
wards found to have come to his use or possession. 01 
SEC. 4. Whenever any goods or chattels shall be distrained i>r rent,
the officer making the distress, shall immediately give notice thereof, 
with the cause of such distress, the amount of rent due, and an inven­ 
tory of the articles taken, by leaving the same with the tenant, or in 
case of his absence, at the chief mansion-house, or at some other no­
torious place on the demised premises. ea 
SEC. 5. If at the expiration of five days from the day of the service
of such notice, the amount of rent due, together.with the costs of the 
distress, shall not be paid, and the goods distrained shall not be re­ 
plevied according to law, the officer making such distress, shall sum·
mon two disinterested householders, who shall be sworn by such offi.
cer, well, truly and impartially to appraise the goods and chattels so 
distrained, according to the best of their understanding ; and the said
appraisers shall thereupon appraise the goods and chattels so distraiD· 
ed, and shall state the same in writing under their hands. es 
SEC. 6. Upon such appraisement being made, the officer conducting 
~~~c~:!~iuc; the proceedings, or any constable of the county, shall give five days' 
public notice of the sale of the goods and chattels so distrained, by
affixing such notice on a conspicuous part of the demised premises,
and also in two public places in the town ; and on the day, and at the
place appointed, shall proceed to sell the said goods at public auction,
at the best price that can be obtained for the same, and shall apply the
proceeds of such sale to the satisfaction of the costs and charges of the
said proceedings, and of the rent for which the said goods were dis­ 
trained; and shall pay over the surplus, if any, to the owner of the
goods.ea 
SEC. 7. The owner, and bis personal representatives, of any goods 
that shall be distrained for rent, pretended to be due, when in truth
no rent is due, may, by an action of trespass, or trespass on the case, 
recover against the person so distraining, or his personal represent&·
tives, double the value of the goods so distrained. 
89 
SEC. 8. When any distress shall be made for rent justly due, and ~y
irregularity or unlawful act shall be afterwards done by the party dis- 
training, or his agent, the distress shall not therefore be deemed un-
lawful, nor the party making it a trespasser f mm the beginning; but 
the party aggrieved may maintain an action of trespass, or of trespass 
on the case, and may recover full satisfaction for the special damages 
he may have sustained by such irregularity or such unlawful act, with 
full costs of suit, and no more, unless tender of amends hath been made 
by the party diatraining, or his agent, before such action brought 
which tender shall prevent the recovery of any costs in such action. '70 
SEC. 9. In any action of trespass, or trespass on the cue, brought in 
relation to any entry upon premises charged with rent or service, for 
the purpoee of collecting or demanding such rent or service, or in re- 
lation to any distress, seizure or sale of any goods thereupon, the de- 
fendant may plead the general iuue, and give the special matter in
evidence." 
Of tie Ret:otJ,ry of Poa,earion of Demi8ed Premiae,,for non­
payment of Rfflt, by Ejectment. 
kc. IO. When ejectment may be brought for dcmuecl premi1e1.
SEC. 1. Judgment tbenin for plaintiJF, and (or coat,. 
SEC. 2. When proceeclinp to day on tender by tenant. 
SEC. 8. Premi.e1 to be re,tored to tenant on tender of rent, &a. 
N. Wheu leNee to be barred and leue annulled.
SEC. 5. How mo~• or lease may be relieved.
SEC. 8. When Je,.ee may file bill in chancery. 
rt. When proceedings at law may be enjoined.
SEC. 8. U 1e of premi1e1 by le11or to be deducted. 
SEC. 0. Whenever any half year's rent, or more, shall be in arrear 
frorn any tenant to his landlord, and no sufficient distress can be found 
on the premises, to satisfy the rent due, if the landlord has a subsist- 
ing right by law to re-enter for the non-payment of such rent, he may 
bring an action of ejectment for the recovery of the possession of the 
demised premises ; and the service of the declaration therein, shall 
be deemed, and stand instead of, a demand of. the rent in arrear, and 
of a re-entry on the demised premises. '72 · 
I St. If opon the trial of the cause, it shall be proved, or upon 
judgment by default, against the defendant, it shall appear to the court 
by affidavit, that the landlord had a right to commence such action, 
according to the provisions of the preceding section, the plaintiff" in
such ejectment shall have judgment to recover the possession of the
demised premises and his costs, and the court shall award execution 
therefor. '72 
1 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
SEC. 2. At any time before judgment in such cause, the defendant 
may either tender to the landlord, or bring into the. court where the
suit •hall be pending, all the rent in arrear at .the time of such pay- 
ment, and all costs and charge& incurred by. the leuor ; and iii- auclt
caie; all further proceedings in the said cause ahall cease. ,_a.. :.. 
f SS. At any time within •ix months after poue88ioD of·die ae,.. 
mised premiaea lhall · have been taken by the landlord, utfm-· ant exe-;.
cutlon issued upon a judgment obtained by him, in any auch actiOD 
of eject~ent, the lessee of such demised premises, bis -igns or per~
aonal representatives, may pay or tender to the le&10r, his pereoml 
~reaentatives or attorney, or into tile court where the *tlit shall be 
pending, all the rent.in arrear at the time of nch payment, -and all
CX*ts and charges incWTed by the les&or; and iD ~uch cue,all furt.her 
proceediugs in the said ca.., aball cease, and such p.remwes --11 be
n,stored to the Iesse&, · who shall hold.and enjoy ~e demised· pee--, 
without any new lease thereof, according. to the. term, of the original 
~mile.''
SEC. 4. In cue the said rent and. arrears, and full costs, shall remain 
unpaid for six months after the execution isaued upon any judgment io
ejectmeot shall have been executed, the lell88 and his· assigns, and 
all other persons deriving title-under the said leue, from such l~
ahall be barred and foreclosed from all relief or remedy in law or equi­
ty, (except for any error intbe record or proceedings,) an.t;I, ~ said 
lessor or landlord, shall from thenceforth bold the said demised pre-
mises free and discharged from such lease or demise. '1 · 
SEC. 5. A mortgagee or such leue, or or any part thereof, who shall
not be in poesession of such demised premises; and who ahaU, within 
-- r , : • 
,ix months after such judgment obtained and execution thereon exe­
cuted, pay all rent in arrear, and all costs and charges as aforesaid, and 
perform all the agreements which ought to be performed by the first
leaee, shall_ not be affected by such recovery in ej~tme_~t.'74 . 
SEC. 6. The lessee, or any person claiming any interest in such leae, 
may within six. months after 'execution exeeuted .on such: j~t io
ejectment, file hia bill for relief in a court of equity, but not after that 
time ; and if relieved 'in such court, he shall hold and enjoy the de­
mised premises, without any new lease thereof, according to the terms 
of the original demise. '4 . . 
SEC. 7. In cue of such bill, being filed within the time aforesaid, the 
complainan~ shall not have or continue any injunction agaiµst ~ pro­
ceedings at law on such ejectment, unless be shall, at such time u tbe 
chancellor shall direct, bring into court such sum of money as the lee­
sor shall in bis answer have swom to be due and in arrear,.over and
above all just allowances, end also all the costs taxed in the said suit, 
there to remain until the hearing of the cause, or to be paid to the les­
sor on good security, as the court may direct.'71 
SEC. 8. If tlie leMOr shall have entered into the actual possession of 
the demiaed premises, the court may direct that so much, ·and no more,
•• shalt ieaHy Juave made of the said premiael&, during his peaees- 
lion~ or. as he might, without wilful neglect, have made of.the 
.w ]iremiaes; l,e. dedaded.,from the amount of tlae .rent m· arrear ·to 
a:b leaor. .BDd,the COlta er 1ucb ejectment; and the complainant aball
be ~- to pay the balance, bei>re be shall be reatored to the ~ 
lfJlllion of the aid premi-. .,._ 
TITLE X. 
SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS TO RECOVER THE POSSESSION or LAND IN
CERTAIN CASES. 
AH. J.-Of forci8le entries and detlliners. 
lu. !.-Summary procecdinp to rHO\'et tbe poaeaion o( land in other cuee. · 
ARTIOLE FIR8T. 
SEC. 1. 
Sac. l. .liatrie9 on lad to lie peaceable, b. 
!!!!!!! 
2. Complaint of forcible enuy, &o. to be made to COIIDty jwlp. 
8. To '8 ia writing; afldarit tberewith; precept for jvy.
4. N etiee of precept, ~. to be Nnecl on defeadat. 
6. Jw.ry to be 1wom; to inquire, &c. and rehlnl ioquiaition. 
._ TraTerN or inquiaition, wlaen to atay prooeediap, 
7. When and oa wW tenu Wlord may tnftrM blqaiaitioa. 
8. Jwry to be 1UDU11oned to try tnnne.
9, Jary to be aW"Om; proceedlnga bdn them, &e. 
10 •. Wltea jvJ m&J' be cliaclluged wl aew oae nm......S
II. Matten to be 1howu on trial by reapectin putiea.
I!. Jadpent if' defudant '8 foand guilty. 
SEC. 4. To i1111e if' there" no trffene ,rithia twent:,-(Olll' houl. 
SEC. 8. .._.,, (or rulitation and eolleotioai •--· 
SEC. 5. Sberi&, &o. to u8C1lte proceaa; to take power or tile county, &e.
SEC. 8. Natiee to juon; &De for aot aUeNinr; ltow collected, &e.
SEC. 7. S.bpcnu for WWM11ae1; penalty for their neglect, &c.
SEC. 8. Certllia·olleela •·Mft lib ponn .. eomdy j.sp.. 
SEC. 9. Certiorari to~· proeeediag:a. by whom allowed. 
•· Boad to be giTen before allowuee of certionri, 
tl .... ..,.. nt1ned; prooeediap ftl •pnll8 eomt.
SEC. 1. WMD· l'Ntitutioa to be awarded ud ~ pl'fMOll1elL 
SEC. 8. Criminal comtl may award reetitation in certain cuee. 
SEC. 1. No entry shall be made into any lands or other possessions,
kt in cases where entey is given by law ; and in such cue, only in
a pea~ble manner, not with strong hand, nor with multitude of peo-
ple.'" 
I i. Where any such forcible entry shall be made ; or where the
entry shall be made in a peaceable manner, and the po11e1sion shall~~ 
be held by force ; the person 80 forcibly put out, or 80 forcibly holden
out of possession, and the guardian of any aµch person being a ~inor, 
Qlay be. restored to such possession, by making a complaint to a judge 
oC the county courts of the same county, and by such proceedings u
are herein after directed. 
18 
~ S. Such complaint shall be in writing, and shall be accompanied
by an affidavit of such forcible entry or forcible holding out, and that 
the complainant has an estate of freehold or for term of years in the 
premises, then subsisting, or some other right to the possession the~
stating the same; and the judge shall thereupon issue a precept to
the sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to ca'U88
twenty-four inhabitants of the same county, duly qualified to serve
as jurors, to come before such judge, at some time not less than two
days thereafter, to inquire of such forcible entry, or such forcible hold­ 
ing.19 
SEC. 4. Such judge shall immediately cause a notice in writing, of
the issuing of such precept, and of the time and place of the return 
thereof, to be served upon the party against whom such complaint ii
made, by delivering the same to such person ; or if he can not be 
found, by delivering such notice to some person of proper age on the
premises; or if there be no such person, by affixing the same on the 
front door of the house, if there be one ; or if there be none, on some
other public and suitable place on the premises. 
SEC. 5. At the day and place appointed for the return of the said pre-
cept, the judge shall administer an oath to the persons returned sum- 
moned, who shall appear, not being less than thirteen and not more
than twenty-three, well and truly to inquire into the matters com­ 
plained of, and a true inquisition thereof to make. And the jury so
sworn, shall proceed to make inquiry into the forcible entry or the
forcible holding complained of, and may e~amine witnesses on oath
to be administered by such judge ; and shall make and sign their in­ 
quisition. before the' said judge, and deliver the same to him. '19 
SEC. 6. If by such inquisition, it shall be found that forcible entry, •
aforesaid, was made, or that the entry being peaceable, the )Xllll8Blion 
was forcibly kept as aforesaid, the party complained against may tra­ 
verse such Inquisition; in writing, denying such forcible entry or for­ 
cible holding out, or alleging that he or hia ancestors, or ~ose whose 
estate he has in such lands, have been in quiet possession thereof for
the space of three whole years next before such inquisition found, and
that his interest therein is not ended or determined ; and if. the said
traverser shall pay to such judge, the fees of summoning~ Jury to
try such traverse, and the jurors' and judge's fees on such trial, such
traverse shall stay all further proceedings on such complaint and in­ 
quisition, until the same be tried. 
19 
SEC. 7. If any ~rson shall make affidavit before such judge, that the
party complained against is the tenant of such person, under a valid 
and then s11beisting demise, he shall be permitted on payment of the 
ia specitied in the last section, to traverse the said inquisition as....,...,..,.,, 
landlord, in the same manner aa is allowed to the party complained
of, either with such party, or without him. 
J s. Upon such traverse being made, either by the party complain-
ed againat, or by his landlord, the judge shall issue a precept to the 
sheriff" or any constable of the county, commanding him to summon
twelve qualified jurors to come before such judge, at the place there-
in to be specified, at a time not less than four, nor more than eight, 
days thereafter, to try the same traverse. 
80 
SEC. 9. The jurors shaU be summoned, returned and impannelled, in 
the same manner as provided by law, in civil actions before justices
of the peace, and shall be swom by such judge, well and truly to hear, 
try and determine the said traverse; they shall be kept together by 
such judge, and shall hear and examine any competent witnesaea who 
may be offered, on oath, to be administered by such judge ; and after
hearing the allegations and proofs of the parties, the jury shall be kept 
together until they agree on a verdict, by an officer who shall be
sworn, as is usual on trials in courts of record. 
80 
SEC. 0. If the jury cannot agree, after being kept together for such
time as such judge shall deem reasonable, be may discharge them, 
and issue a precept for a new jury ; and the same proceedings shall 
be had, in respect to such new jury.
SEC. 1. On the trial of such traverse, the complainant shall only be 
required to show, in addition to the forcible entry or detainer com-·::.~ 
plained of, that he was peaceably in actual possession at the time of
a forcible entry, or was in the constructive possession of the prellli,es
at the time of a forcible holding out ; and the traverser may show, in 
his defence, that he or his ancestor, or those whose interest in such 
premisea he claims, have been in quiet poesession thereof tor the space 
•
hole years together, next before the said inquisition found,
intereat therein is not then ended or determined ; and 
mg shall be a bar to the prosecution. si · 
i':. I I!. The verdict of such jury shall be received and recorded by
~' said judge, and if the defendant is thereby found guilty, the said 
JUdge shall thereupon award restitution of the premises so forcibly en- 
tered or forcibly held out, and shall assess the costs and expenaes of 
the proceedings. 82 
. ! IS. He shall thereupon issue his precept, reciting the proceed- 
Ulp before him, and commanding the sheriff of the county, or any con-=~
-hie thereof, to cause the complainant to be restored and put into 
full }>088easion of the said premises, according as he was seised or pos- 
teaeed thereof before such entry ; and shall also, in the same precept, 
O'r in llep&nt&-execution, direct the C08t.8 and expenae& 80 BMBll!ed, to 
be levied and oollected of the defendant, in the same manner as coltl 
are or may be collected on judgments before justices of the peace, in 
personal actions. 
88 
SEC. 4. If no such traverse shall ~ made, as authorised in the pre- 
ceding aections of this 'fitle, in the manner therein specified, within
twenty.mur hours after. the inquisition found, the judge shall~ in like
manner, award restitution of the premises, and assess the costs and 
expenses of the proceedings ; and shall issue his precept, in the 8lllD8 
manner, to cause restitution, and for the collection of the costs."
SEC. 5. Sheriffs and constables, to whom any process issued by a 
judge, as herein authorised, shall be directed and delivered, shall exe­
cute the same, and if needbe, shall command and take the power of
the counly for that purpose. ea 
SEC. 6. Twenty-four hours' personal notice to any juror to attend 
upon any precept issued 88 aforesaid, shall be deemed sufficient ser­ 
vice, and any person so summoned, who shall neglect to attend and 
serve as such juror, without reasonable excuse, to be allowed by the
judge issuing such precept, shall be subject to the same fine, to be pro­
secuted for, collected and applied to the same use, 88 · provided by law 
in respect to jurors in justices' courts.
SEC. 7. The judge before whom such complaint shall be made, may, 
at the request of either party, issue his subpoena requiring any per­
son to appear and testify before him, or before the jury of inquiry, or 
before the petifjury, touching the matters herein before directed to be
heard by. them. And any person served with such subprena, who, 
without reasonable cause, &hall neglect to appear, or appearing, aball
refuse to answer upon oath, touching the matters aforesaid, shall be
subject to the proceedings and penalties prescribed by law in similar 
caaes injustices' courts. 
SEC. 8. Every circuit judge, or supreme court commissioner, and
every mayor, recorder and alderman of any city, any special justice, 
any justice of the marine court, and any assistant justice of the city of
New-York, shall have the like powers and authority, respecting for­ 
cible entries or forcible detainers, in their respective cities or coun­
ties, u are above given to judges of the county courts. 
SEC. 9. No proceeding for the restitution of any premises forcibly
entered or forcibly detained, had according to the foregoing provi­ 
sions, shall be removed by any certiorari, Unless the same be. allow­
ed hy a justice of the supreme court, a circuit judge, or supreme ooort
commissioner, 
SEC. 0. No such writ of certiorari shall be allowed by such officer,
unless the defendant prosecuting such writ, with two sufficient sure- 
ties, to be approved by such officer, or in cue of the abeence of 1uch 
defendant, three sufficient sureties, to be approved as aforesaid, shall
become bound to the complainant, in such penal 111m as such, officer 
shall direct, notless than one hundred dollars, conditioned that such
party will apear at the return of the said certiorari, answer to the in­
quisition found, abide such order and judgment as the supreme court 
shall make in the premises, and pay all costs that shall be awarded
against such defendant. Such bond shall be delivered to the judge to
whom such certiorari shall be directed, and until the same be so de-
livered, such ce,·tiorari shall be of no effect. 
SEC. 1. The judge shall annex, and file such bond, with his retum
to such writ, and the supreme court shall proceed therein, and cause 
the defendant to traverse the inquisition, if no traVel'88 has been had, 
and shall direct a trial. 
SEC. 2. If the defendant shall omit to traveree such inquisition, with-
in such time as the court, by rule, shall direct, restitution shall be 
awarded by the court, with costs. And if, upon the trial of such tra-
verse, the defendant be found guilty, the supreme court shall also
award restitution, with costs ; and in either cue, the court -may au- 
thorise the complainant to prosecute the bond given, on the allow-
ance of the writ of certiorari. 
SEC. 8. Upon the conviction ofa defendant upon any indictment for
forcible entry or forcible detainer, found in any court of general se&- 
aioos of the peace, or in any court of oyer and terminer, such court may 
award restitution, in the same manner as a judge upon a verdict being 
rendered before him, as herein provided. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
Summary Proceeding, to recover ths Po88earion of Laflll m 
Sao. M. When jutice to Tiew deeerted premiaes and give aodce to tenant.
SEC. 6. When luadlord to be put in po11e11ion; eff'ect thereof.
SEC. 8. Appeal by tenant, how and when made; return by jaatiee. 
-zT. Power of common plea,; to award ftltitution aad c0tll, Ac. .
SEC. 8. Case, in wtuch certain tenants may be removed. 
SEC. 9. Afticlsrit of fut, to be made.
IO. Sammon, to tenant when to be ia1ued; it, content..
SEC. 1. Proof required iu certain cuea before granting aummons. 
SEC. 2. Summou how to be nned. 
SEC. 8. If no caue shown, warrant of pos1ea1ion to i11ue. 
M. Tenut, •c. may by affidarit deny fact, alleged.
a&. Proceeclinp to form jury to try fact, contronrted. 
SEC. 8. Jury how dn.wn and ,worn. 
. other Oaau. 
SEC. 8. Bow kept; when diacharged and new one formed. ·
19 ac •· When warrant ofpo11e11ion to i .. ae; how executed. 
SEC. 1. Whea adjournment may be had; for what time. 
SEC. 2. Witne11ea bow compelled to attend and te1tify.
SEC. 1. Agreement, &c. between partiea annulled by warrant. 
SEC. 4. Bo,r wunnt in cue of rent, may be stayed.
SEC. 5. BOW' 1tayed where tenaot bu taken benefit of act. 
SEC. 8. Aleo ,rhea premilel baTe been ,old under encution. 
J 
Sao. C. Proeeedinga may be nmcwed by certiorui; bat not stayed.
SEC. 8. When 1apreme c~ to award restitution and coat,. 
1 
SEC. 9. Coata by whom paad; damage• when to be reconred. 
"1 IO, Bigbt. ot ludlorcb uc1 teu1ata not to be a8'eetecL 
SEC. 4. If any tenant being in arrear for rent, shall desert the demis­
ed premises, and leave the same unoccupied and uncultivated, with­
out any goods thereon subject to distress to satisfy the arrean of rent,
any justice of the peace of the county may, at the request of the land­
lord, and upon due proof that the premises have been so deserted, leav· 
ing such rent in arrear and no goods thereon subject to distrea, go
upon and view the said premises ; and upon being satisfied upon such
view, that the premiles have been so deserted, he shall affix a notice in 
writing upon a conspicuous part of the premises, requiring the tenant
to appear and pay the rent due, at some time in the said notice spe­
cified, not less than five, nor more than twenty days after the date 
~~r. • 
SEC. 6. At the time specified in such notice, the justice shall again
th • 'f the d de th • d 
View e premises; 1 tenant appear an ny at any rent II ue 
to the landlord, all proceedings shall cease. If upon such second 
view, the tenant or some one for him, shall not appear and pay the
rent in arrear, and there shall not be sufficient distress on the premises
to satisfy such rent, then such justice may put the landlord into po&- 
11888ion of the said demised premises; and any demise of the said pre­ 
mises to such tenant, shall from thenceforth become void. 
SEC. 6. An appeal from the proceedings of any justice in such case, 
may be made by the tenant at any time within three months after such
possession delivered, to the court of common pleas of the county, by
serving notice in writing thereof upon such justice, and by giving se­ 
curity to be approved by such justice, to pay to the landlord all c08tB
of such appeal which may be adjudgoo against such tenant; and there­ 
upon such justice shall return the proceedings had before him to the
said court, within ten days after such notice and security given, and 
ahall give notice to the landlord of such appeal.
SEC. 7. The court of common pleas shall examine the proceooiogs, 
and hear the proofs and allegations of the parties, in a summary way; 
and may order restitution to be made to such tenant, with coats to be
paid by the landlord; or in case of affirming such proceedings may
award costs against the tenant. 
SEC. 8. Any tenant or lessee at will, or at sufferance, or for part of
a year, or for one or more years, of any houses, lands or tenements;
and the assigns, under-tenants, or legal representatives of such tenant
or lessee; may be removed from such premises, by any judge of the
county courts of the county, or by any mayor or recorder of the city,
where such premises are situated; or if in the city of New-York, by
the mayor, recorder, any one of the aldermen, any special justice, any 
justice of the marine court, or any one of the assistant justices, of the
said city ; in the manner herein after prescribed, in the following
caaes: 
1. Where such person shall hold over and continue in possession 
the demiaed premises, or· any part thereof, after the expiration of his
term, without the permission of the landlord: 
2. 'Yhere such person sha_ll hold over ~thout ~h ~n 
aforeeaid, after any default m the payment of rent pursuant to the· 
agreemeat under which such premises are held, and aatilfaction ior
alCh rent cannot be obaained by distress of any goods, and a demand 
of ~__i~nt shall have been made, or three days' notice in writing, re- 
Cf'IU'Ulg the payment of •uch rent, or the J)(Hll81UQP. of the premises, 
ahall have been &erved by the penon eiititled to 1uch rent, on the per-
eon owing the ame, in the manner prescribed b- the service of the 
iwmmons in the thirty-second section of this Title : 
3. Where the tenant or lessee of a term of three years, or less,
shall have taken the benefit of any insolvent act, or been discharged 
under any act for the relief of bis person from imprisonment : 
4. Where any person shall hold over and continue in the possession
of any real estate which shall have been sold by virtue of an execu- 
tion against such person, after a title under such sale shall have been
perfected." 
SEC. 9. Any landlord or lessor, his legal representatives, agents 
assigns, may make oath in writing, of the facts, which, according 
the preceding section, authorise the removal of a tenant, describing
therein the premises claimed; and may present the same to one of the
officers in the last section specified. 
~ SO. On receiving lllClt affidavit, euch ofiicer lhul Ulltle bis am-
rnons, describing the premises of which posse88ion is claillled, aDd re- 
11uirug aay perBOD in poueuion of the said premisea, ()I' claiming the 
pollleMion tJaeregf, forthwith to remove from the same; or to show
cawie, before the said magistrate, on the same day, or withi.D such 
time as shall appear reasonable, not less than three nor more than five 
days, why possession of the said premises should not be delivered 
such applicant. 8'I 
, Sl. PNWio\11 to isswog aucb summons in the cue oI a telwlCf
at ·w'ill or at suJferance, the magistrate shall l,e aatistied by alidavit, 
tbt s11ch tenancy has been terminated by giving notice in the man-
ner prescribed by law. And if application be made for such sum- 
mons to be served on any person holding over real estate which shall
have been sold on execution, the magistrate shall in like manner be 
satisfied that a demand of the possession of such premises has been
lllade,8'7 
SEC. 2. Such summons shall be served,-either, 
1. By delivering to the tenant to whom it shall be directed, a
true copy thereof, and at the same time showing him the original: 
or, 
2. If such tenant be absent from his last or usual place of residence, 
by leaving a copy thereof at such place, with some person of mature 
age residing on the premises. 
~ SS. If at the time appointed in the said summons, no sufficient
cause be shown to the rontrary, and due proof of the service of such
summons be made to such magistrate, he shall thereupon iaue his 
warrant to the sheriff of the county, or to any constable or ID&J1i:hal of
the city or town where the premises are situated, commanding him to
remove all persons from the said premises, and to put the said appli- 
cant to such magistrate, into the full possession thereof. 
SEC. 4. Any person in possession of such demised premises, and afly
person claiming possession thereof, may, at the time appointed in such 
summons for showing cause, or before, file an affidavit with the ma- 
gistrate who issued the same, denying the facts upon which the said
summons was issued, or any of those facts; and the matters thus con- 
troverted, shall be tried by a jury. 
89 
SEC. 5. In order to form such jury, the maeietrate with whom such 
O" 
affidavit shall be filed, shall nominate eighteen reputable persons, 
qualified to serve as jurors in courts of record ; and shall issue his
precept, directed to the sheriff or one of the constables of the county, 
or any constable or marshal of the city or town, commanding him to
summon the persons so nominated, to appear before such magistrate,
at such time and place as he shall therein appoint, not more than
three days from the date thereof, for the purpose of trying the said 
matters in difference. 
90 
SEC. 6. Twelve of the persons so summoned, shall be ballotted for
and drawn, in like manner as jurors in courts of record ; and shall be 
sworn by such magistrate, well and truly to hear, try, and determine
the matters in difference between the parties. 
90 
SEC. 7. After hearing the allegations and proofs of the parties, the
said jury shall be kept together until they agree on their verdict, 
by the sheriff or one of his deputies, or a constable, or by some pro- 
per person appointed by the magistrate for that purpose, who shall
be sworn to keep such jury as is usual in like cases in courts of re- 
cord. 90 • 
SEC. 8. If such jury can not agree, after being kept together for such 
time as such magistrate shall deem reasonable, he may discharge
them, and nominate a new jury, and issue a new precept in manner 
aforesaid. 
90 
88 
SEC. 9. If the verdict of any jury so summoned, shall be in favor of
the lessor or landlord, or other person claiming the possession of the 
premises, the magistrate shall issue his warrant to the sheriff of the
county, or to the marshal or constable of the city or town, in which
the premises are situated, commanding such officer to put such land- 
lord, lessor or other person, into possession of the premises, as herein
before directed. 11 
SEC. 0. The officer to whom such warrant for delivering possession
'lhall be directed and delivered, in either of the cases aforesaid, is 
hereby required to execute the same according to the tenor thereof. 
SEC. 1. Any magistrate before whom such application may be pend-
ing, may, upon the request of either party, adjourn the hearing of such 
application, for the purpose of enabling such party to procure his wit-
nesses whenever it shall appear to be necessary; but such adjourn~ 
ment shall in no case exceed ten days.
SEC. 2. Any magistrate before whom such application may be pend- 
ing, may, at the request of either party, issue his subpoena, requiring
any person to appear and testify before such magistrate, or before the 
jury, touching the matters herein directed to be heard by them; and
every person who, being served with such subpcena, shall, without
reasonable cause, refuse or neglect to appear; or appearing, shall re-
fuse to answer upon oath, touching the matters aforesaid ; shall be
subject to the proceedings and penalties provided by law in similar 
cases. 
SEC. 8. Whenever a warrant shall be issued as aforesaid, by any 
such magistrate, for the removal of any tenant from any demised pre- 
mises, the contract or agreement for the use of the premises, if any
such exists, and the relation of landlord and tenant between the par- 
ties, shall be deemed to be cancelled and annulled." 
SEC. 4. The issuing of such warrant of removal, shall be stayed in
the case of a proceeding for the non-payment of rent, if the person 
owing such rent shall, before such warrant be actually issued, pay the
rent due, and all the costs and charges of the proceedings ; or give
such security as shall be satisfactory to the said magistrate, to the per-
son entitled to such rent, for the payment thereof, and the costs afore-
said, in ten days. 
92 
SEC. 5. When the application to a magistrate is founded on the fact,
that the tenant or lessee has taken the benefit of any insolvent act, or
been discharged under any act for the relief of his person from impri­ 
sonment, the proceedings shall be stayed, if at any time before issuing 
the warrant for removal, the tenant or lessee or his assignee shall pay 
the costs of such proceedings as have been had, and give such security 
91 
to the pel"SOII" entitled to the rent, for the payment thereof as it shall 
become due, as shall be satisfactory to the magistrate. 
91 
SEC. 6. When such application is founded upon an alleged sale by 
execution, of the premises occupied by the defendant in such execu­ 
tion, the proceedings shall be stayed, if at any time be.fore issuing the 
warrant of removal, the occupant shall, 
1. Pay the costs of such proceedings : 
,. File with the officer before whom the application is pending, an
affidavit that he claims the poasession of such premise& by virtue of 
some title or right acquired after such premises were sold, or as guar­ 
dian or trustee for any other: and,
a. Execute a bond to the applicant for such warrant, in such pe­ 
nalty and with such sureties as the magistrate shall approve, condi­
tioned to pay the costs which may be recovered against him in any
ejectment that may be brought by such applicant within six months,
for the recovery of the possession of such premises; and to pay the
value of the use and occupation of such premises, from the date of
such bond, to the time such applicant shall obtain possession of the 
same by "rirtue of a recovery in such action of ejectment ; and al8o 
conditioned not to commit any waste or injury to StJCh premises, dur­
ing his occupation thereof. 
SEC. 7. The supreme court may award a certiorari for the purpose
of examining any adjudication made on any application hereby au­
thorised ; but the proceedings on any such application shall not be 
stayed or suspended by such writ of certiorari, or any other writ or 
order of any court or officer. · 
SEC. 8. Whenever any such proceedings brought before the supreme
court by certiorari, shall be reversed or quashed, the court may
award restitution to the party injured, with costs ; and may make
such orders and rules, and issue such process, as may be necessary to
carry their judgment into effect. 
SEC. 9. In all cases of al}. application pursuant to the provisiona of
hi A • } th ·1· hall d • 
t s rtic e, e prevai mg party s recover costs, an may mam-
tain an action for the recovery thereof; and if the proceedings shall 
be reversed or quashed by the supreme court, the tenant or lessee 
may recover against the person making application for such removaJ,
any damages he may have sustained by reason of such proceedings, 
with costs, in an action on the case.
SEC. 0. Nothing contained in this Title shall be construed to impair 
the rights of any landlord or lessor, or of any tenant, in any cue not
herein provided for. 
SEC. 1. Cattle clutrainecl where kept; application to fence-Tiewen.
~ A'lldlority and c1atJ ol fnee-riewen iD IIP()niaing ....... 
I. To certify c1mupa ud determine duputu about fenca.
4. When beuta to be put in pound, certificate to accompany them.
6. Pound-muter when to ,ell beuta; CID wmt notice. 
8. Application or proceeds or ale. 
SEC. 1. Beuta when to be ducharpcl by poand111Uter.
8. .......... podl when to be apt. 
9. Damage. •owappnuecl; Talue of property to be certified.
to. Notice of ale, A:c. to be po,tecl by diatrainer. 
SEC. 1. In wMt cue DOtiee to be pablided ia DeWllfl&IMI'·
U. If owur known, A:c. notice to be 1uYed Clll laim. 
SEC. 4. When 1heriW, A:c. to sell property; al• how conducted. 
U. Appliatioa ol proceecb of ale.
SEC. 8. Smplu to be paid tocoaaty treuver. 
SEC. 7. Common pleu to order payment of balance to owner. · 
SEC. 8. Ia cue oC doabt, to require boad Crom applicant. 
SEC. 9. Bond when to be 1ued by other claimant.; proceedinp.
~- Notice to be giTen of ale, by all ofticen di.training. 
SEC. 1. Property to be appniled and appnna1 certia.d.
SEC. 2. P-,en to be filed by officer after making ale. 
SEC. 8. Penalty on officer diaobeying lut 1ection. 
k Appliatioa of proeeed1 of nle; 1111plu te county treu1llw. 
SEC. 0. P:roceedinp by owner to obwa nrplua. 
! t. When any distress shall be made of any beasts doing damage, 
the penon distraining shall keep such beasts in 80ID8 secure place
other than the public pound, until his damages shall be apprailed ; 
and within twenty-four hours after such distress, unless the same was 
made on a Saturday, in which case, before the Tuesday morning there-
after, he shall apply to two fence-viewers of the town, to appraise the 
damage.94 
TITLE XI. 
OF DISTRAINING CATTLE AND OTHER CHATTELS DOING DAMA OE,
AND OF DISTRAINING IN OTHER CASES. 
f !. Such fence-viewers shall thereupon immediately repair to the 
place, and view the damage done ; and they may take the evidence
of any competent witnesses of the facts and circumstances necessary 
to enable them to ascertain the extent of such damage, for which pur-
poee, either of them is hereby authorised to administer an oath to eve- 
ry euch witness.H
SEC. 8. The said fence-viewers shall ascertain and certify, under their 
hands, the amount of such damage, with their fees for their services ; 
and if any dispute shall arise, touching the sufficiency of any fence
around the premises, where such damage was done, the said fence­ 
viewers may examine witnesses in relation thereto, and for that pur- 
pose, may administer oaths to such witnesses; and they shall deter-
mine such dispute ; which decision shall be conclusive. 
SEC. 4. Within twenty-four hours after the said damages shall be so
appraised, unless the amount so ascertained, and the fees of the fence- 
viewers, shall have been paid, the person making such distress, shall 
cause the beasts distrained to be put in the nearest pound in the same 
county, if there be one, there to remain until the same be sold, as
herein after directed, or until replevied, according to law, or until the
damages so certified, and the fees of the fence-viewers and pound­
master, be paid ; and he shall deliver the certificate of the fence-view­ 
ers to the keeper of such pound. The owner of such beasts may give 
them their feeding, without disturbance. 
SEC. 5. The pound-masters of the several cities and towns of this state, 
shall receive and keep the beasts so delivered to them, in the public 
pound, and unless the same shall be replevied or discharged, accord-
iog to law, within six days, such pound-master shall sell such beasts,
or 80 many of them as shall be necessary, at public vendue, giving 
forty-eight hours' notice of such sale, by advertisement, to be fixed
up at such pound, and at the nearest public place. 
16 
SEC. 6. From the proceeds of such sale, the pound-master may retain 
sufficient to pay the amount of his fees and his charges for eepmg 
such beasts, and the charges of such sale ; and he shall pay to the per· 
son impounding such beasts, the damages so certified, with the fees
of the fence-viewers ; and if there be any surplus, the same shall be 
paid to the owner of such beasts. If no owner appear within one
year after such sale, and claim such surplus, the same shall be paid 
to the overseers of the poor of such city or town, for the use of the 
poor thereof. 
115 
SEC. 7. Every pound-master with whom any beasts shall be impound-
ed, shall discharge such beasts, on being paid, 
1. The amount of the damages so certified by the fence-viewers: 
2. The fees of the fence-viewers :
s. The fees of -the pound-master, with his reasonable charges for 
feeding such beasts, if fed by him, not exceeding six cents for each 
beast, for every twenty-four hours. 
96 
8. When any person shall be authorised by law to distrain any 
inanimate goods or chattels doing damage, he shall keep the same in
some safe and convenient place, until the damage shall be appraised,
and the goods be sold or otherwise disposed of. 
SEC. 9. He shall apply to any two fence-viewers of the town, to ap­
praise the damages sustained by him ; who shall proceed therein, in 
the same manner and with the same powers, as herein before provid­ 
ed, with respect to cattle doing damage ; and in addition, they shall
estimate and certify the value of the property distrained. 
SEC. 0. The distrainer shall affix a notice in three public places of 
the town, for ten days, as follows : 
1. Specifying therein the property distrained, and the amount of 
damages certified : 
k ' 
2. Requiring the owner of such property to redeem and remove the
same, before the day therein appointed for the sale thereof: 
3. Stating that such property will, on some day, at least ten days
from the day of the first posting thereof, be sold, to pay such damages,
and the costs and charges of the proceedings. 
SEC. 1. If the value of the property distrained, as certified by the ap-
praisers, exceed fifty dollars, the distrainer shall publish a notice in 
the nearest newspaper, once in each week, for four weeks, similar to 
that required in the last section, except that the time of sale shall be
at least thirty days from the day of the first publication of such notice. 
SEC. 2. If the owner of such property be known to the distrainer, or
if any person be known to him as claiming any interest in such pro,.
perty, and if such owner or person reside within the county, the dis-
trainer shall also serve a copy of such notice, within two days after the
time of posting, or after the first day of the publication thereof, either 
personally on such owner or person, or in case of his absence from his
usual or last place of residence, by leaving the same at such residence,
with a proper person. 
~ IS. If such goods and chattels be not removed, and if the dama- 
ges so certified, with the fees of the appraisers and the expenses of~
such notice, be not paid, at the time appointed in such notice for the 
sale, the distrainer shall apply to the sheriff of the county, or one of 
his deputies, or to any constable of the town, to sell such goods and
chattels, and shall make and deliver to such officer, an affidavit show- 
ing his compliance with the provisions of this Title, and the original
certificate of the appraisers. 
SEC. 4. Such officer shall thereupon proceed and sell the goods and
ch
ttels 
di . ed , th . .
a so istrain , m e same manner as on executions agamst 
personal property in civil cases, and with the like authority and effect, 
and shall be entitled to the same fees for his services.
SEC. 5. From the proceeds of such sale, such officer shall retain his 
own fees, and shall pay to the distrainer the amount of the dameges-so 
certified, and the expenses of such notices, and also all expenses that 
may have been necessarily incurred, in the safe keeping and preserva-
tion of such property ; which expenses shall be ascertained and certi- 
fied by any judge of the county courts, or by a justice of the peace of
the county. 
SEC. 6. If any balance shall remain, such officer shall pay the same 
to the county treasurer, for the use of the owner of such property, or 
his legal representatives.
SEC. 7. Upon the application of the owner of such property, or his 
representatives, to the court of common pleas of the county, and on
due proof, by affidavits, of such ownership, the said court shall order 
such balance to be paid to such owner,· or his representatives, by the 
county treasurer, aft.er deducting a commialion of five per cent. for re­ 
ceiving, keeping and paying over the same. 
SEC. 8. If upon such application, the court entertain any doubt ofthe
ownership of such property, before ordering such balance to be paid 
over, they shall require the claimant to execute a bond to the people 
of this state, in a penalty at least double the amount of such balance, 
and with sureties to be approved by such court, conditiooed that he 
will pay to any penon, who, in an action on such bond, commenced
within two year1 fioom its date, shall establish his right to such balance,
or to any part thereot; the amount to which he aball show sach right, 
with intereat. 
SEC. 9. Ally penon claiming such balance, or any part thereof, may 
prosecute such bond, in the name of the people of this state, on the re­
lation of such person, who shall, in all respects, be deemed the plain-. 
ilif therein, and be liable i>r the costs. If he establish his right to iUCh 
balance, or any part thereof, in such action, he shall be entitled to re­ 
rover such amount, with interest, as damages to be useaed for a breach
of such condition, with costs of suit. The proceedings therooa shall
be the same as in other actions on bonds, with conditions other than
for the payment of money. But no judgment in favor of the defend­
ants, shall be a bar to, or in any way atfect, any action that may be
brought on· such bond, by any other person than the plaintiff" against
whom such judgment shall have been obtained. 
SEC. 0. When, by the provision, oC any atatute, any officer is author- 
iled to dittrain on any property, '1r any purpose whateffr, and no 
special provision shall be otherwise made, he shall cause at least five 
daya' notice of sale of IUCb property to be giren, by poeting the same
in tlHee public places of the town, where such sale shall be made. 
SEC. 1. Before making any such sale, 1Uch officer shall allO cauae
the property distnuned, to be appraised by three disimerested fre.iliold- 
ers of the town, on oath ; and such appraisal, with an inventory of
the property distrained, shall be certified by the appraisers in writiDg. 
~ !!. Within ten days after any such sale, the officer makiag the
same shall file in the office of the derk of the town or city, wheN web 
sale was made, 
1. His own affidavit, specifying the cause of such diatrels, nd the
amount of the penalty, tax, duty or other sum, for which the same 
was made: 
1. Proof, by affidavit, of the notice herein required, having l;,ea:i
given: 
a. The inventory and certificate of .the appraisers : . 
Which papen, when so filed, shall be presumptive ev~ of the
facts therein contained. 
. ! SS. Unleu the provisions of the last section are complied with, 
within tlMJ time therein required, such officer shall forfeit to the own- 
er oC the property sold, twenty-five dollars. 
SEC. 4. From the proceeds of any such sale, such officer shall be au·
thorised to deduct and retain the expenses of such appraisal, certifi 
cate, notice, proof and affidavits, and of the filing the same, as herein
required. An~ the residue of such proceeds, after satisfying the pe· 
oalty, tax, duty or other sum, for which such sale was made, shall be
paid within ten days after such sale, to the treasurer of the county, for 
the use of the owners of such property.
SEC. 5. The same proceedings shall be had by such owner, to obtain 
... L- id h • bef ided . the 
um mooey so pat over, as are erem rore prov1 , in case o
distreM on inanimate property doing damage, and the said provisions
ahall apply in all respects to such monies and such proceedings, 
OF THE ACTION OF REPLEVIN. 
Ssc, l. Repleyia for pods wroagfully tak.ea or detained.
2. ExeClltora and others entitled to tre1pus, may bruag repleria. 
a. la wlaat conty actioD to be Wet. 
(. Not to Jie (or properlJ'. 1eised for tuea, finu, &c.
6. Nor for property taken by execution, except in certain cues. 
fl. To be eommenoecl by writ; form tbereot 
7r Writ 11ot to be execnated witho11t affidavit aad boncl. 
8. Sllerift' how to execute writ and l1UllDlon defendant. j 
a. Sluamob9 laow Hl'Nd OD defendant. 
SEC. 0. When 1heriCf to ~reak open houa, &e. to 1ein property. 
. u. Whiea ctef'enclut to be ureded. . 
UL 'to N ~ o.girieg ~J iu oonteat.. 
SEC. 3. Proeeedinga oa claim of property; jury to be 1umm.oned. 
H. Notice to parties; proueding. 1tefore jary. 
SEC. 6. WitUIHt how compelled t4> att.eod; to be ,worn by 1beri.8'.
SEC. 6. It jvy find agaiut claimalllt, property to be delinred to plaintiff. 
lJ. Wlaea, if jvy hd for olaimant. 
JiS. PeMlty OD llleriA" deliveriag where property i1 claimed, without inq11iry by jll1'1·
SEC. 9. Plal~ff'may prooeecl altlam1gh gooda not d'tlivered. 
,a Betua to writ, dldaTit ud names of 1uetie•, A:c.
SEC. 1. ~ ol uecating writ, to be retlU'Ded, &c. 
SEC. 9. Saretia of defeadant, when taken, to be retvned.
21, Plaiatil' may except to nc.h nretiu; proceediap.
SA. Bail to action to be p.t in on exception. 
S. Upoa aegleet, proeeedinp agawt 1heriff, and by him. 
ts. Suetiu oa the arnat to 1te Nil to action, il no aoeptjon be m.de. 
Z/. Jiu exception, 1beri.8' exonerated; bond bow held by him 
SEC. 8. Defeadant may except to 1aretie1 ginn by plaintiff'. 
SEC. 9. H..,. ncb nretiu to jmtify, or othen to be 111bltitated. · 
ao. · Upon default, jugmeat of diacontinuanc:e, &c. to be rendered. 
SEC. 1. How reliffed at term nut after default. 
n. Slaerift" exonentecl il 111.retio. not excepted to, 1tc. 
a Liability of ,herif' iC 1uretiu do aot jutify, &c. 
M. Def'eN&Dt'• appeamnce when to be entered by clerk . 
.II. Declention, rule to plead, A:c. 
TITLE XII. 
a Fora ol declaration ia certain cua, 
iiiiiii. 
SI. Place of taking need aot be 1tated, except in certain cues. 
SEC. 8. Pleadinga by defendant.
SEC. 9. Plea when wrongful taking ii alleged; ita eff'ect. 
SEC. 0. Plea •bftD detention ODly alleged; it, el'eet.
SEC. 1. Plea in cue of ~plevin for property distrained for rent.
SEC. 2. Plea in replevin for chattel, di,trained for doing damage. 
43 .. Aid pnyer abolished; landlord may defend.
SEC. 4. Notice of special matter may be given by defendant.
SEC. 6. Plaintiff may apply Hveral matten to uowry, &c •
.ffl. Either party may notice for trial; judgment for nonnit. 
SEC. 7. PlaintiJf'a duiages for taking or detaining; bow u1e11ed.
SEC. 8. V alne of property taken to be u1e11ed. 
SEC. 9. J~ for plaintift"wben good, not deliTered to him.
SEC. 0. Contents of execution upon such ju•gment,
SEC. 1. Duty of 1beril' in executing execution, &c. 
SEC. 2. When execution agam,t the body to i11ue.
SEC. 4. Judgment for defendant, when property baa been delivered.
M. Defendant may elect to take juJgment for value of property.
SEC. 6. Judgment for deCeodant when property distrained (ell' rent.
SEC. 7. Judgment for defendant when cattle distrained for damage. 
SEC. 8. Rernedy on bond of plaintiff' not aft'ected by election, &c. 
SEC. 9. NotiM of execnting writa of inquiry, bow aod when ginn. 
SEC. 0. J1ldgment for defendant where property i1 not replevied. 
SEC. 1. Jadgmenta in replevin to be liens, &c.
SEC. 2. When retlll'D awarded, property not to be reple'ried again, &c.
SEC. 3. Writa ofwitbemam and second deliverance aboli1hed.
tU. When defendant may ,ue bond of plaintiff.
SEC. 6. Proceedinp; mn1ure of damage, to be recovered. 
SEC. 6. ETidence in mitigation of damage, in certain cue,. 1 
SEC. 1. When 1herift" is a party, proce11 by whom executed.
SEC. 8. Remol'al of repleTin &om common pleat to supreme court. 
SEC. 1. Whenever any goods or chattels shall have been wrongfully 
distrained, or otherwise wrongfully taken, or shall be wrongfully de­
tained, an action of replevin may be brought for the recovery thereof, 
and for the recovery of the damages sustained by reason of such un­
just caption or detention, except in the cases herein after specified.• 
2. Whenever .by any statute, executors or other persons, suing
in the right of another, are authorised to maintain actions of trespass 
for any personal property, wrongf ully taken, such persons may main­
tain actions of replevin for such property. 
~ S. Whenever an action of replevin shall be brought for the re- 
covery of goods or chattels, distrained for any cause, it shall be laid
in the county in which tho distress was made, and not elsewhere ; in 
other cases the action shall be laid and tried in like manner as actions
of trespass for injuries to personal property. 
SEC. 4. No replevin shall lie for any property taken by virtue of any 
warrant for the collection of any tax, assessment or fine, in pursuance
of any statute of this state." 
5. No replevin shall lie at the suit of the defendant in any exe- 
h ood
cution or attac ment to recover g s or chattels seized by virtue 
thereof, unless such goods and chattels are exempted by law from such
execution or attachment ; nor shall a replevin lie for such goods or 
chattels at the suit of any other person, unless he shall, at the time,
have a right to reduce into his possession the goods taken. 
SEC. 6. Actions of replevin shall hereafter, in all cases, be commenced
b 
. . h h
y writ, whic s all be issued out of the court in which it shall be 
made returnable, and shall be substantially in the following form:
"The People, kc. To the Sheriff, &c. 
Whereas A. B. complains that C. D. has taken, and does unjustl]w 
detain, [ or 'does unjustly detain,' as the case may be,] one horse,
one cow, and five sheep, r or 'one silver tankard, one mahogany table, 
and six chairs,' &c., particularly describing the goods and chattels to
be replevied.] therefore, we command you, that if the said A. B. 
shall give you security, as required by law, to prosecute his said com­
plaint, and to return the aforesaid goods and chattels, if return there-
ctf shall be adjudged, and to pay all such sums of money as may be
recovered against him hereupon, that you cause the same goods and 
chattels, to be replevied and delivered to· the said A. B. without de­
lay_; and also that you summonJ the said C. D. to appear before our 
justices of the supreme court of judicature, at the Capitol in the city
of Albany; ( or 'before the judges of the court of common pleas, &c. ']
on the day of next, [some day on which writs in per­
sonal actions may be made returnable,] to answer the said A. B. in 
the premises. And in case you.· can not find the aforesaid goods and
chattels, within your county, so as to replevy the same, as you are
above· commanded, then we do further command you, that you take
the body of the said C. D., and that you have him before our said 
justices, [ or 'the said· judges,'] at the pince, and on .the day above
mentioned, to answer the said A. B. in the premises. Witness, 
&c.;,
SEC. 7. Such writ shall not be executed in any case, unless the fol- 
. lowing provisions are complied with: 
1. An affidavit must be made by the plaintiff' in the action, or by
some one in his behalf, stating that the plaintiff in such action, is the 
.1 owner of the property described in the writ, or that he is then law·
fully entitled to the possession thereof, and that the same has not been
taken for any tax, assessment or fine, levied by virtue of any law of 
this state ; nor seized under any execution or attachment against the
goods and chattels of such plaintiff, liable to execution. The affida-
fit must be sworn to before some proper officer, and must be annex­
ed to or delivered with the writ : 
SEC. 2. The plaintiff' in the action, or some one in his behalf, shall exe-
cute a bond to the sheriff, or other officer, to whom the writ is direct-
ed, with the addition of his riame of office, with sufficient sureties to 
be approved by such sheriff, in a penalty at least double the value of
the property specified in the writ, which value shall be ascertained 
by the ~th of one or more disinterested witnesses, to be sworn and 
examined by the sheriff: Such bond lball be conditioned, that die.
plaintiff' will proeecute the suit to effect, and without delay, and tat
if the defendant recover judgment against him in the action, be will 
return the same property, if return thereof be adjudged, and will pay 
to the defendant all such sume of money as may be recovered against
him, by such defendant in the said action, for any cause whatever.• 
SEC. 8. Upon receipt of the writ, and of the affidavit and bond a~e 
required, the sheriff shall forthwith proceed to execute ~ ~it, by
delitering ~oo of the property named therein, to die pl~or 
his authorised agent, and by aummo11ing the defendant aeeorcliBr » 
SEC. 9. The summons shall be served on the defendant, by delinring
to him personally, if be can be found, a brief note in writing, iigned 
the tenor of the writ. 
by the officer serving the same, and stating the name of the plaintiff'
in the writ, and of his attorney, if the writ be prosecuted by OJJe, the
court from which it issued, and the time when, and place where, the­
defendant is required to appear: if he cannot be found, it m1y be lll'T· 
ed by leaving at his usual place of abode, with his wue, or with IOlile 
penon of proper age, a like note in writing.
SEC. 0. If the property to be replevied, or any part thereo~ be seear- 
ed or concealed in any dwelling-house or other building or enclosure,
the officer shall publicly demand deliverance thereof, and if the same 
be .not delivered by the defendant or some other person, he shall cause 
auch house, building or enclosure to be broken open, and shall make
replevin, according to the writ, and if necessary, he shall take to his
usi.stance the power of his county. 
99 
SEC. 1. If the property described in the writ, have been removed or 
concealed, so that the sheriff can not make delivery thereof, he oall 
arrest the body of the defendant, and keep him in his custody, in the 
same manner as on a capias ad rupondendum in a personal action, 
until he shall execute the bond prescribed in the next section, or be
otherwi.se legally discharged. . 
SEC. 1. The defendant shall be entitled to be discharged from such 
arrest, at_ any time before final judgment shall be had. in the ca~ 
upon executing to the officer who shall .have made su~ ~nest, with 
the addition of his name. of office, a bond in a penalty at least double 
the vallijl of the p~rty described in the writ, as such nlue aba]I
have been ascertained by such officer, in the manaer herein before pre­
lCl'ibed, with such sureties as shall be approved by such officer, COJl· 
ditioned that such· defendant shall .abide the order and judgment of~
court in such action, and· that he will cause special bail to the actlOD 
to be. put in, if the same be required. 
lion of the goods and chattels specified in the writ, shall elaim pro-
-~ IS. H thnlefendant, or any other person who may- be in ~ 
perty therein, or in any part thereof, and shall pay to the sheriff his
'3es, and the fees of the jury for trying such claim, the sheriff shall 
take the goods described in the writ, and detain them in his custody; 
and shall forthwith summon a jury to appear before him at such time 
and place as he shall specify, which time shall be within two days 
thereafter, to try the validity of such claim. 
SEC. 4. The sheriff shall give notice to the parties, · their agents or 
attomies, of the time and place at which such jury will appear; at 
which time, he shall swear the jury, and such proofs and allegations 
as the parties may produce, shall be submitted to them. 
SEC. 5. · Process of subpoena may be issued under the seal of the court 
in which the action is pending, to compel the attendance of any wit- 
neas before the sheriff andthe jury, in the same manner, and with the.--. 
like effect, as upon the execution of writs of inquiry in personal ae- 
t.iooa• and the iberuf shall have power to administer oaths to the wit- 
Qelses peeduoed; · · 
SEC. 6. If by their inquisition, the jury find that the property in sueh
goods and chattels is not in the person claiming them, the sheriff" shall
forthwith make deliverance thereof to the plaintiff in. the replevin. 
SEC. 7. If the jury· find that the property inssch goods and chattel1
is in the person who shall have made such claim, the sheriff shall not
4eliver the same, tmlesa .the plaintiff in such replevin shall indemnify
such sheriff to his satisfaction, for delivering the property claimed, and 
shall refund to such claimant the fees of the sheriff and jury, required 
to be paid by him as aforesaid; in which case, the sheriff may deliver 
the said property to such· plaintiff. 
SEC. 8. Any sheriff or other officer to whom a writ of replevin may 
be.delivered, :who shall deliver. to the plaintiff any·goods and cbattMls 
which shall have been claimed as above provided, with due notice of
8\leh claim; and before the same is inquired into and decided aceord- 
ing to law, shall forfeit to the person making such claim; two hundred 
and fifty·dollars, besides being liable for all damages w1rich such-per· 
llt>n may have · sustained by auch delivery ; which damages may be
recovered in the same action, or in another suit, at the election of the 
party .100 . 
SEC. 9. If the goods and chattels specified in any writ of replevin,
have not been delivered to the plaintiff, he may proceed in the action,
for the recovery of the said goods and chattels 011 the value thereof.
SEC. 0. The sheriff shall return the writ at or before the return day 
thereof; and shall annex thereto, and transmit therewith, the affidavit' 
to him delivered, together with the names of the persons who were 
sureties in the bond taken by him for the plaintiff, with their addi-
tions, occupations, and places of residence. · 
SEC. 1. The sheriff shall state in his return, in what manner he has
executed the writ; and if the· goods and chattels specified therein
shall not have been replevied, he shall state in such return the cause
of his omission to make deliverance thereof. 
SEC. 2. If the defendant shall have been arrested, and shall have 
• h d fi h ,
been disc arge rom sue arrest upon the execution of the t>ond 
herein before provided, the sheriff shall also return the names of the
sureties in such bond, with their additions, occupations and place of
residence. 
SEC. 8. The plaintiff may except to the sufficiency of such sureties,
within the same time, and in like manner, as is provided by law, for
excepting to bail in personal actions; and he shall give the like no- 
tice thereof. ·
SEC. 4. Within twenty days after the notice of such exception, good 
special bail to the action shall be put in ; and the bail· shall justify, io
the same manner and within the same time, as prescribed by law in 
personal actions. 
SEC. 5. If such bail shall not be put in as above directed, the party
making such exception may proceed against the sheriff, in the same
manner as in cases of arrest in personal actions ; and the sheriff shall
have the same rights, and be subject to the same duties and obligations>
and may in like manner maintain an action on the bond taken by him.
And all such proceedings and actions, shall be subject to the provi­
sions of law concerning attachments against sheriffs, for not putting
in bail in personal actions, and concerning actions by sheriffs upon
bonds taken by them on the arrest of a defendant in personal actions. 
SEC. 6. If no exception shall have been entered to the bail taken OD 
the arrest of the defendant, such bail shall be deemed special bail
to the action, liable in the same manner and in the same cases, and 
to the same extent, as such bail in personal actions ; and such bail7 
and any special bail that may be put in, in such action, shall have the, 
same right to surrender their principal, and with the like effect, as in
other actions ; and all the provisions of law concerning special bail in
other actions, shall apply to such bail. 
SEC. 7. If no exception shall have been entered as herein directed,
to the sureties taken by the sheriff on the arrest of the defendant, such 
sheriff shall be discharged and exonerated from all liability for the suf­
ficiency of such sureties ; and the bond shall thenceforth be held by 
him for the security of the plaintiff, and shall be assigned by such
sheriff to such plaintiff, or his representatives, upon their request, in
the cases herein after prescribed. 
SEC. 8. The defendant in any action of replevin, may except to the
sufficiency of the sureties taken of the plaintiff, by the sheriff upon the
receipt of the writ. Such exception shall be made within twenty:~:~· 
days after the return of the writ, and the like notice shall be given to
the sheriff, and to the plaintiff, as prescribed by law in the case of ex- 
ception to bail taken on the arrest in personal actions.
SEC. 9. Within twenty days after the service of such notice of ex- 
• h h ·a: h • . h ho d ed b' th
eeption on t e s en , t e sureties m t e n so execut y e 
plaintiff, shall justify, by making an affidavit that each of them is a
householder, worth double the amount of the penalty of such bond,
over and above all demands ; or within the same time, a new bond,
similar to that herein required of a plaintiff prosecuting a writ of re- 
plevin, shall be executed by such plaintiff, with new sureties, who
shall justify in the same manner herein provided. Such affidavits 
and such bond, when executed, sha11 be filed in the office of a clerk of
the court ; and a notice thereof shall be served on the defendant, or
bis attorney, within the twenty days herein specified. 
i SO. If such sureties shall not justify, or if such new bond shall 
not he executed and filed and notice thereof be given as herein pro-
vided, the court .shall, at the next term after such default, render judg- 
ment of discontinuance against the plaintiff, and such other judgment
.as the state and nature of the case may require, in order to restore to 
the defendant the property replevied, and to compensate him for his
damages. 
SEC. 1. But the court may allow the plaintiff to file such new bond,
with new sureties, who shall justify in the same manner herein pre- 
scribed, at the term at which application for such judgment shall be
made, on such reasonable terms as the court shall impose ; and upon
such bond being filed, the cause shall proceed. · 
SEC. 2. If no exceptions shall have been entered to the sureties in
the bond given by a plaintiff in replevin, as herein provided, the sheriff~:::ie'!':C.. 
shall be discharged from all liability for the sufficiency of such sure-
ties ; and the bond of the plaintiff shall thenceforth be held by such
Bheriff for the security of the defendant, and shall be assigned to such
defendant or his personal representatives, if judgment be rendered for
him in such action. 
, SS. If such exception shall have been made, and judgment of
discontinuance shall be rendered against the plaintiff for his sureties
not justifying, the sheriff shall be liable to the defendant for the suffi-
ciency of such sureties, as now provided by law ; and such sheriff
shall be entitled to the same remedy on the bond taken by him, as in
cases of bonds given on the arrest of a defendant in personal actions 
and all the provisions of law respecting actions on such bonds, and re­
specting the staying of proceedings against the sheriff, shall be appli- 
cable to actions by the sheriff on such replevin bond, and to actions
against him in relation thereto. 
SEC. 4. If the sheriff return to the writ of replevin, that the defendant
has been duly summoned, in either of the modes herein before pre- 
scribed, or that he has taken the body of such defendant, the clerk of
'the court shall thereupon enter the appearance of such defendant; 
and thereafter proceedings shall be had against such defendant, u if
he had actually appeared. 
SEC. 5. The plaintiff" shall declare within the same time, and in case
he shall neglect so to do, shall be liable to the like judgment of dis­
continuance as in personal actions ; and upon filing a declaration, the
plaintiff shall be entitled to the like rule to plead, and notice shall be
given thereof, in like manner as in personal actions. 
SEC. 6. Where the original taking of the goods is not complained o(
but the action is founded on the wrongful detention of such goods, the 
declaration shall be conformed to the writ ; and shall allege, with re­ 
q uisite certainty of time, place and value, that the defendant received 
the property described in the writ,. from the plaintiff, or from some other
persoo, ( naming him,) to be delivered· to the plaintuf, when there­
unto aftenftrds rfM!UeSted ;' and·that.tJie defendlµ)t although request· 
ed so to do, bas not delivered the same to the plaintiff, but refuses 1JO 
to do, and detains the same property to the damage of the plaintif.
Anet where the action is founded upon the wrongful taking and deten­
tion of the property, but sach property, for any reason, shall not have
been replevied and delivered to the plaintiff, the declaration shall not 
only allege such wrongful taking, but shall also allege that the de­
Cendant continues to detain such property. 
SEC. 7. It shall not be neeessary for the plaintiff" to state in his de­
claration, a place certain within the town or village a& that where tJie 
property was taken, except where the action shall be brought for the
recovery of goods or chattels distrained. 
SS. The defendant shall be entitled to the same pleas in. abate-
ment, and in bar, as heretofore, and with the like effect ; and he may 
plead as many several matters as he shall think necessary mr his de- 
fence.'
SEC. 9. When the wrongful taking of the property described in the 
declaration, is complained of therein, the plea of tbe general issue
shall be, as heretofore, that the defendant did not take the~ and 
chattels described in the declaration, or any of them, in m•• and 
i>rm as the pl~tiff has alleged ; and such plea shall put in issue not
only tf\e taking of such goods and chattels, but such taking in the 
place stated, where the place is material. 
SEC. 0. When the. action is founded on the wrongful detention of the 
goods, and the original taking · is not complained of, the plea of the
general issue shall be, that the defendant does not detain the goods and
chattels specified in the declaration, or any part thereof, in manner
and form as therein alleged; and such plea shall put in issue not only
the detention of such goods and chattels, but also the property of the
plaintiff therein. 
SEC. 1. Whenever a distress shall be made upon any lands or tene-
ts 
l'. • • • f h I . d . 
men , tor any rents or services issumg out o sue an s or tenements,
and a replevin shall be brought for the pro~rty distrained, the de- 
Cendant may avow or make cognizance generally, that the plaintiff in
replevin, or other tenant of the lands or tenements whereon such dis-
tress was made, enjoyed the same under a grant or demise, or by any
other title, at a certain rent or by certain services, during the time,
wherein the rent distrained for was incurred, which rent was then 
and still remains due; or that the place where the distress was taken,
was parcel of certain tenements for which the rent or service dis-
trained for, was, at the same time of such distress, and still remains,
due ; without further setting forth the grant, tenure, demise, or title
of the landlord or lessor ; and. without naming any person certain, as
the tenant of .sueh lands or tenements. 
SEC. 2. In an action of replevin for beasts or chattels distrained for
doing damage, it shall be a good justification for th~ defendant to plead, 
avow, or make cognizance, that he, or the person by whose com-
mand he acted, was lawfully possessed of the lands and tenements 
upon which the distress was made ; and that the beasts or chattels 
· distrained, were, at the time of such distress, doing damage therein ;
without setting forth a title to such lands or tenements. 
SEC. 3. No aid-prayer shall be allowed in any action of replevin
h 
ft be b
h 
b h
, , th l d 
erea er to roug t ; ut any person avmg an estate m e an s
or tenements upon which tho distress in question was made, may, 
upon special cause shown to the court, and on such terms as it shall
think equitable, be made a co-defendant in the action, or be permit­
ted to defend the same separately, as the case may require. 
SEC. 4. With the plea denying the taking or detention of the pro-
perty claimed, the defendant may give notice of any matters which, 
if properly pleaded by avowry, cognizance or plea, would be a bar to/~ 
the action, and which, if the goods have been replevied, would enti-
tle him to a return thereof; and he may give such matters in evi- 
dence on the trial, in the same manner, and with the like effect, as if
the same had been so pleaded. · 
SEC. 5. The plaintiff may plead in answer to any avowry or cogni- 
zance, as many several matters as he shall think necessary for. bis 
defence.2 
SEC. 6. After issue joined in any action of replevin, either party may
,give notice of trial. Where neither party shall have noticed tbe 
• d '- nd fo • d • f
cause wr trial, the e1e IUlt may moYe r JU gment u m cue o 
non-suit, in the same manner and with the like effect as in pel'90Dal 
actions •
SEC. 7. 1£, upon the trial of the cauae, the verdict be in. favor of the 
plaintiff, the same jury Bhall asse8I the damages which he has sustain- 
ed by the unjust taking or q~_!!t~n of the property rep)evied ; but 
iC judgment pass for the plaintiff by default, or upon an issue of law,
a writ of inquiry shall be awarded to the sheriff of the proper county,
to ascertain his damages for such caption and detention. 
SEC. 8. It shall also be the duty of the jury upon such. trial of the
cause, or on the execution of such writ of inquiry, as the caae may 
be, to. assess the nlue of the goods and chattels specified in the de­ 
claration. 
SEC. 9. If the goods and chattela ~ in the declaration, ahall
not have bees replevied and delivered to the plaintiff, such plaiJl~ 
in case he shall recover judgment upon the whole record, ehall be 
entitled, in addition to his judgment for damaget and COits, to a fur. 
ther judgment that such goods and chattels be repleried and delivered
to him without delay ; or in default thereof, that auch plaintiff" do re­
cover from the defendant, the value of such goods and chattels, as the 
same shall have bees usessed b7 the jury on the trial, or upon the 
writ of inquiry- 
SEC. 0. The exeeution to be issued upon such judgment, shall com-
mand the sheriff' to levy the plaintiff"'s damages and costs, of the goods 
and chattels, l&J¥1s and tenements of the defendant, as in other exe­
cutions against property; and also to rep)evy the goos)('and chattels
described in the declaration, which shall also be ~ed in the exe­
cution, and to deliver them to the plaintiff, if they can be found within
his county ; and if the same cannot be so found, then that he lery the 
value of such goods and chattels, specifying the same, together with
the aforesaid damages and costs, of the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements of the defendant, as above provided. 
SEC. 1. The sheriff shall proceed in the same manner to collect any
monies directed to be collected upon such execution, as upon execu­ 
tions against property in personal actions, and he shall possess the 
same powers in respect to the replevying of the property described
therein, as are herein provided upon the esecution of writs of reple­
vin. If the goods and chattels described in the execution, are reple­
vied and delivered to the plaintiff, they shall be irrepleviable. 
SEC. 2. If any execution issued under the Jut preceding section,
ahall be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the plaintiff shall be 
entitled to an execution against the body of the defendant ; upon 
which the lib proceedinga shall be had, and with the like eJfect, as
upon executions againat the, body in persenal actions. 
I 5S. If the property specified in the writ have been delivered to
th
1 
• .. :,rand the d l'. dant iud t b di •
e p am WI, eten recover J grnen y isoonnnuanee or 
non-suit, such judgment shall be, that the defendant have retum of the
goods and chattels replevied, unlesa he shall elect to waive such re- 
tum pursuant to any of the prOTisions ·herein-after contained ; and al- 
so that he recover the damages sustained by him by reason of the de·
tention of such goods and chattels, which damages. shall be 81Waed by 
a writ of inquiry. 
SEC. 4. Whenever a defendant shall obtainjudgment by default, or in
any other manner after having pleaded any matter, which, if admitted 
by the plain~ would be sufficient in law to entitle such defendant 
to a retum of the peperty replevied, he shall be entitled to tbe like
judgment u provided in the last section. 
SEC. 5. The defendant, whenever he shall be entitled to a return of 
the property replevied, instead of taking judgment for jueh return u 
ahem, provided,J;fu take judgment for the value of the property re- 
plevied; 1n w~-~s_e'i such _va~_ -~~)r be ~ by the jury _on 
~~-'!- by a_:'1ftjt of inquiry, as the cue may require. But tliis 
aection ahall not apply to c.aaes where the property replevied, has been 
distrained. 
___._
SEC. 6. If the property replevied shall have been diatrained for rent, 
the defendant, instead of taking judgment for a return thereof, may, 
in the iollowing cases, proceed 88 follows : 
1. If the defendant 8hall not have made an avowry or cogaizance, 
aoo•therem set .forth the arrears of rent, he may make a suggestion
in the nature of an avowry or cognizance, for the rent in arrear; 
and the court shall thereupon award a writ of inquiry to the sheriff
of the proper county, tD ascertain the sum in arrear at the time of such
distress taken, and also the value of the property distrained ; and up- 
on - the return of the inquisition taken by such sheriff, the defendant
shall have judgment to recover against the plaintiff the arrearages of
1Uch rent, in cue the property distrained shall amount to that value
and in cue it shall not amount to that value, then so much u the
ftlue of the property BO distrained shall amount to ; (or which sum 
he shall have execution against the property or the person of the 
p1aintur, as in other cases t
2. If judgment shall.be given for the defendant upon demurrer, beJadpieatoa 
may make the like suggestion of the arrears of rent, it the· same shall
not already have been pleaded by him, and the court shall award a 
lib writ of inquiry; upon which the same proceedings shall be had 
to judgment and execution, as above provided :
a. IC the plaintiif shall be non-euited after iS1Ue joined, or if the 
~:- .. -1..-}l be · • h I · •ir th h • th 
v«~ BW& given agamst sue p aibtiu, en t e Jurors at are 
impannelled to try such issue, shall, at the prayer of the defendant,
inquire concerning the amount of the rent in arrear, and the value of
the property distrained ;' and thereupon the defendant shall have judg­ 
ment and execution for such arreart1ges, or so much thereof as the
property shall amount to, as above provided : 
If the value of the property distrained shall not be found to be equal 
' • • 
to the arrears of rent distrained for, the party to whom such arrears
were due, his executors, administrators or assigns, may, from time to 
time, distrain again for the residue of such arrears. 
1 
SEC. 7. If the property replevied shall be beasts or chattels distraine.d 
from doing damage, the defendant, instead of taking judgment for a
return thereof, may, at his election, take judgment to recover the da­
mages sustained by him by the injury for which such beasts or chat­ 
tels were distrained, or so much thereof as the value of the beasts or 
chattels shall amount to; and the like proceedings shall be had to as­
certain such damages and such value, and the like judgment and exe­ 
cution shall be had thereupon, as in the last section are provided.
SEC. 8. Notwithstanding the defendant may have elected to proceed 
under either of the two last sections, he shall no(be pl'f'".'luded from 
resorting, as the assignee of the sheriff, to his remedy against the
plaintiff and his sureties, upon the bond executed by them to the
sheriff. 
SEC. 9. Whenever a writ of inquiry shall ·be issued pursuantto any 
• • • eel • thi T• l th • h • ball 
prov1S1on contam m 1s it e, e party suing out sue writ, s
give the adverse party, in case he shall have appeared in the cause in
person or by attorney, the same notice of the time and place at whicli
such writ will be executed, as is required by law and the practice of 
the court, in the execution of writs of inqu,iry in personal actions. 
SEC. 0. If the property specified in the writ have not been replevied
and delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant recover judgmen~ 
such judgment shall be for costs merely, including the fees of the she·
riff and jury upon a claim of property, if one was interposed. 
SEC. 1. Every judgment recovered in the action of replevin, whether 
in favor of the plaintiff or the defendant, for any damages or costs, or
for any other sum of money, shall be docketed in the same manner, 
"and shall have the like effect, as a charge upon the real estate and 
chattels real of the party against whom it is recovered, as judgments
in personal actions. - 
SEC. 2. Whenever judgment shall. pass against the plaintiff in reple· 
• h th b d t: l th ' d f th
vm, w e er y erau t or o erwise, an a return o e property re- 
plcvied is awarded, no writ of second deliverance shall Le allowed,
nor shall any second or other writ of replevin be brought for the same 
cause ; but the plaintiff in replevin shall not thereby be barred from 
bringing an action of trespass or trover for the same property, unless
the judgment in the action of replevin shall have passed against him
on the merits. 
SEC. 8. The writ of withemam, and all writs of second deliverance, 
are hereby abolished.'
SEC. 4. H any writ of return, or other execution, issued in favor of 
the defendant in the action, shall be returned unsatisfied, in whole or
in part, such defendant or his representatives, may have an action 
upon the bond executed by the plaintiff and his sureties, to recover the
value of the property replevied, and the monies, damages and costs 
awarded to such defendant, as the case may be, and such bond shall
be assigned to such defendant or his representatives, on their request. 
SEC. 5. In such action the plaintiff shall assign breaches of the con-
dition of such bond, as in other cases; and Ute return of the sheriff to
the execution issued in the action of replevin, shall be evidence of 
such breach; the amount recovered in such action of replevin, shall
be the m~ure of the damages, if the value of the property replevied 
shall have been so recovered, and if not so recovered, such value shall
be added tcr1he amount of the damages and costs recovered, in the ac-
tion of replevin, and together therewith shall form the measure of the 
damages to be assessed. 
SEC. 6. In any action prosecuted on such bond given by the plaintiff
in replevin for the deliverance of any property distrained for rent, or 
for doing damage, the defendant may show in mitigation of the dama- 
ges, the amount of the plaintiff's claim in the action of replevin for
such rent or for such damage; and if such amount, with interest, be 
less than the value of the property replevied, a corresponding deduc-
tion shall be made from such value. 
SEC. 7. Whenever an action of replevin shall be brought by or
• th h •tr f th • d II • th 
against e s enn o any county, e writ, an a process in e
cause, shall be awarded to, and executed by, the coroners of the coun-
ty, but executions therein shall be awarded and executed as in other 
such cues.
SEC. 8. Either party to an action of replevin pending in any court ohemo•Ulf 
l
h
. d h edi h , 
common p eas, may remove sue action an t e proce ngs t erem, 
into the supreme court, by writ of certiorari, at the same time, in the
same manner and subject to the same provisions of law, as provided
in respect to the removal of personal actions ; and the same proceed-
ings shall thereafter be had in that court, as if the action had been ori- 
ginally c~mmenced therein. 
4 
1TITLE xm. 
OF PROCEEDINGS, AS FOR CONTEMPTS, TO ENFORCE CIVIL REMEDIES
AND TO PROTECT THE RIGHTS OF PARTIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
SEC. 1. C.... oC mueoadaet ill wlaieh couu of noorcl ma7 pui,11.
2. When punishment may be l1IIDIIW'1· 
I. When notice, Ac. to be giTen to party aocued.
4. W.. attachment may be peremptory. 
G. Other cue., order or attach,ient to uanrer. 
I. When attachment to wwer witluNt apeeial Ol'der.
7. When Juibeu CCllpU may .iuu.e. 
8. When it may be allowed by 1iagle jadp, &c.
9. Aatlaority coaf'erred by writ. m habeu COlpU· 
SEC. 0. Coart dinctiag attaehmeat, to prermae peulty mbOIML 
SEC. 1. Wha penalty to be directed by ,Ingle judge, Ac. 
SEC. 9. Defendant arruted on attacluneat, bow kept. 
U. When to be duelmgecl OD gi'riag bond j iu paalty, ~.
14.. When aot to be discharged without order or eoart. 
U. WW pemlty to be iuertecl in boDd, wbeD DODe directed. 
SEC. 6. ,Boad to be returned with attacbmata direoting penalty.
SEC. 7. Proceedillp apuut officer neglecting to retarn attaehmeat. 
SEC. 8. Sacb oflcer to be kept ia cutocly antil order oC oout.
19, Proceedinp oa apsjelnDCe of ddenduat oa attaobPMDt, 
SEC. 0. When court to fine or imprilOD party accued. 
SEC. 1. When 6ne to ati,fy damage,, &c. or party injand. 
IZ. Fine limited ia otlw- cuea.
SEC. 8. Dllntioll of impN011JDUt in certain CUN.
2'. Content. of order or procua m commitmcat. 
t.&. Term ol imprbonment in other cue,. 
SEC. 8. Penou panilhed, not uempt from indictm.t. 
SEC. 7. Proceedinp it defendant in attachme11t doe1 not.,,..... 
/-:~:oa.!~,!:!.~&idet-,,b 
SEC. 1. Pe to be reconred; bow applied. 
SEC. 2. Liab · tr of officer for taking imuflicient nretiea.
SEC. 8. ~e mt.y JMlllWl milcondact at elrnita. 
.---- a:'Attachm ta bow tested and all.owed, Ac.
SEC. 6. Sach ta how to be eneated. 
8'. Circait ' ga to proceed apiut def'aalting witau .... 
SEC. 7. Siebe , &c. oldelendant in attacbmeet; )low to N bpt. 
'~ ~ very; of record shall have power to punish, by fine 
lll)d1mprisonment, or either, any neglect or violation of duty, or any
J6isconduct, by w · ch the 'rights or remedies of a party iii a caUll8 
or matter depending in such court, may be defeated, impaired, im­
peded or prejudiced, in the following cues : 
1. All att.omies, counsellors, solicitors, clerks, registers, sheriffs,
coroners, and all other persons in any manner duly selected or ap,
pointed to perform any judicial or ministerial aem.ces, for any mil­
behaviour in such office or trust, or for any wilful neglect or viola­
tion of duty therein; for disobedience of any process of such court, or
of any lawful order thereof, or of any lawful order of a judge of such 
court, or of any officer authorised to perform the duties of such judge:
s, Parties to suits, for putting in fictitious bail or suretie,, or NI' 
any deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of the court : 
s. Parties to suits, attornies, counsellors, solicitors and all other
persons, for the non-payment of aiiy sum of money ordered by such· 
court to be paid, in cases where by law execution cannot be award- 
ed for the collection of such sum; and for any other disobedience to 
any lawful order, decree or process of such court:
,. All persons, for 888uming to be officers, attornies, BOlicitors or 
r-·- 
COUD1ell0fl of any court, and acting as such without authority; for res- 
cuing any property or persons, which shall be in the-custody of any
officer, by virtue of process issued from such court; for unlawfully
detaining any witnels or party to a suit, while going to, remaining at,
or returning from, the court where such suit shall be noticed for trial; 
and for any other unlawful interference with the process or proceed-
ings in any actioQ: 
6. All penoos summoned as witnesaes, for refusing or neglecting"
to obey such summons, or to attend or be sworn, or anawer, as such 
witness:
s. - PerBOns 8UDUDOped as jurors in any court, for improperly con- 
versing with any party to a suit to be tried at such court, or with
any other person in relation to the merits of such suit; for receiving
communications from any such party, or from any other person, in
relation to the merits of any such suit, without immediately disclosing
the same to the court : 
., . All inferior magistrates, officers and tribunals, for disobedience
of any lawful order or process of a superior court, or for proceeding 
in any cause or matter contrary to law, after such cause or matter
aball have been removed from their jurisdiction: and, 
8. All other cases, where attachments and proceedings, as for
contempts, have been usually adopted and practised in courts of re- 
cord, to enforce the civil remedies of any party to a suit in such court,
or to protect the rights of any such party. 
SEC. 2. When any misconduct, punishable -by fine and imprisonment, 
as declared in the last section, shall be committed in the immediate 
new and presence of the court, it may be punished summarily, hy
fine or imprisonment, or both, as herein after prescribed. 
~ S. When such misconduct is not so committed, the court shall
be satisfied by due proof, by affidavit, of the facts charged, and shall 
CIU8e a copy of such affidavits to be served on the party accused, a 
reasonable time to enable him to make his defence ; except in cases 
of diaobedience to any rule or order requiring the payment of money,
and of disobedience to any subpoena, 
SEC. 4. When any rule or order of a court shall have been made for
the
payment of coets, or any other 1Um of money,~ proof, by afti- 
davit, lball be made of the personal demand of such sum of money,
and of a refusal to pay it, the court may issue a precept to commit the
person 10 disobeying to prison, until such sum, and the costs and ex- 
penses of the proceeding, be paid. - 
SEC. 5. 'In all cases, other than that specified in the last section, the
court shall either grant an order on the accused party, to s~ow cause, 
at some reasonable time to be therein specified, why he should not be
punished for the alleged misconduct ; or shall issue an attachment to 
arrest such party, and to bring him before such court, to answer for 
such misconduct. 
SEC. 6. When a rule shall have been entered in any court, according 
to the practice thereof, requiring any officer or other person, to whom 
any process of such court may have been 'directed and delivered, to
return the same, an attachment for disobedience of such rule, may is­ 
sue according to the practice of the court, to arrest such officer or 
person, to answer for such disobedience, without special application
to the court. 
SEC. 7. If the party charged with misconduct, be in the custody of
any officer, by virtue of an execution against his body, or by virtue 
of any process for other contempts or . misconduct, the court may
award a writ of habeas corpu,, to bring up the body of such person, 
to answer for such misconduct. 
SEC. 8. In cases where a party is entitled to an attachment against 
• l 
any person, without the specia order of the court, and such person 
shall be in custody, as specified in the last section, a writ of Aabea1 
corp"'8, to bring up such person, may be allowed by any judge of the 
court, or by any officer authorised to perform the duties of such judge 
in vacation. · 
SEC. 9. Such writ shall authorise the aheriff in whose custody such
person shall be, to remove and bring him before the court to which
the same shall be returnable, and to detain him at the place where 
such court shall be sitting, until some order be made by the court for 
his disposition.
SEC. 0. When an attachment shall be issued, according to the provi- 
all
sions of this Title, by the special order of any court, such court sh 
direct the penalty in which the defendant shall give bond for his ap­
pearance to answer. 
SEC. 1. In all other cases, when a party shall be entitled to an at­
tachment, without the special order of the court, he shall make ap­ 
plication to a judge of the court, or tosome officer authorised to per· 
form the duties of such judge, who, upon due proof of the facts and 
circumstances, shall direct the penalty in which the defendant shall 
give bond for his appearance, to answer to the matters alleged against
him ; and shall endorse such order on the attachment. 
SEC. 2. Upon arresting any defendant upon an attachment, to an­
swer for any alleged misconduct, the sheriff shall keep such defen­ 
dant in his actual custody, and shall bring him personally before the
court issuing the attachment; and shall keep and detain him in liis 
custody, until such court shall have made some order in the premi- 
le8 ; unless such defendant shall entitle himself to be discharged, as
prescribed in the next section.
, IS. In cases where a sum shall have been endorsed, on any at- 
tachment issued by the special order of the court, and where any sum
shall have been so endorsed by any judge or other officer, as herein 
before prescribed, the defendant shall be discharged from arrest on
such attachment, upon executing and delivering to the officer making 
the same, at any time before the return day in such writ, a bond,
with two sufficient sureties, in the penalty endorsed on such attach- 
ment, to such officer, by his name of office and his assigns, with
condition that the defendant will appear on the return of such attach- 
ment, and abide the order and judgment of the court thereupon.
SEC. 4. When an attachment shall be issued by the special order of 
· __._! ~ 
a court, a cernncate to that effect shall be endorsed thereon, by the
clerk of such court ; and if no sum be specified, in which the defen­
dant shall be held to bail on such writ,. he shall not be entitled to be
discharged from the arrest thereon upon executing any bond, or in any
other manner, unless upon the special order of the court issuing the 
attach~ent.
SEC. 5. When an.attachment shall be issued without the special order 
of the court, and an order specifying the sum in which the c1efendant
is to be held to bail, is not endorsed thereon, the defendant shall be 
discharged frotn the arrest thereon, on executing a bond in the penal-
ty of one hundred dollars, with sureties, in the same manner and with
the like condition. · 
SEC. 6. Upon returning any attachment, the officer executing the
same shall return . tile bond, if any, taken by him, of the defendant, 
which shall be filed with ~uch attachment. 
SEC. 7. The sheriff or officer to whom any attachment shall be de- 
livered, shall return the same by the return day specified therein,
without any previous rule or order for that purpose, and in case of
default, an attachment may be issued against him of course, upon
being allowed by a judge of the court, or by some officer authorised 
to perform the duties of such judge, upon proof of such default ; and 
in such allowance, the cause of issuing the same shall be stated, and
that the defendant is not to be discharged upon bail, or in any other 
manner but by order of the court.
SEC. 8. The officer to whom such last mentioned attachment shall 
• h JI the b • d k • th 
be delivered, s a execute same y arresting an eepmg
defendant in his custody, bringing him personally before the court,
and detaining him in such custody, until the order of the court. 
SEC. 9. When any defendant arrested upon an attachment, shall have
been brought into court, or shall have appeared therein, the court 
abal1 cause interrogatories to ho filed, epecifying the facta and cir­
cumstances ·alleged against the defendant, and requiring-his aD8W8r 
thereto ; to which the defendant shall make written answers, on oath,
within such reasonable time u. the court shall allow. The court may 
receive any affidavits or other proofs, contradictory of the answera of
tho defendant, or in confirmation thereof; and upon the original affi.
davits, such answers and such subsequent proof, shall determine
whether the defendant has been guilty of the misconduct alleged. 
SEC. 0. If the court shall adjudge the defendant to have been guilty
of the misconduct alleged, and that such miaconduct was calculated 
to, or actually did, defeat, impair, impede or prejudice the rights or
remedies of any party, in a cause or mattet depending in such court, it 
shall proceed to impose a fine, or to imprison him, or both, as the na­
ture of the case shall require. 
SEC. 1. If an actual loss or injury shall have been produced to any
party, by the misconduct alleged, a fine shall be imposed sufficient to 
indemnify such party, and to satisfy his costs and expenses, which
shall be paid over to him, on the order of the court. And in such
case the payment and acceptance of such Ane, shall be an abeolute
bar to any action by such aggrieved party, to recover damages for 
SEC. 8. 
SEC. 2. In all other cues the fine shall not exceed two hundred ~ 
fifty dollars, over and above the costs and expenses of the proceed·
ings. 
SEC. 8. Wh~n the misconlr:t complained of, consists in the omil­
sion to perform some act ~uty, which it is yet in the power of the
defendan~ to perform, he shall be imprisoned only, until he shall have
performed such act or duty, and paid such fine as shall be impoeed,
and the costs and expenses of the proceedings. 
SEC. 4. In such case thta order and process of commitment -11 
specify the act or duty tQl be performed, and the amount of the fine 
and expenses to be paid:'··: 
SEC. 5. In all other cases, where no special provision is othenrile 
made by law' if imprisonment be ordered, it shall be for some ...
sonable time not exceecli.Qa six months, and until the expemes of the 
proceeding are paid ; - also if a fine be imposed, until such fine be 
paid ; .and in the order and process of commitment, the duration of 
such imprisonment aliall be e~pressed. '
SEC. 6. Persons proceeded against ,ccording to the provilioal <i 
this Title, shall notwithstanding he liable to indictment for the same
misconduct, if it be an indictable offence ; but the court before which 
a conviction shall be had on such indictment, shall take into cooaide­
ration the punishment before inflicted, in forming its sentence. 
SEC. 7. If the defendabt against whom an attachment shall h~'fe
been ia8ued and returned served, do not appear ,on tile return day 
• .
thereof, the court may eJtlaer award another attachment, Of may Order 
the bond taken on the arrest to be prosecuted, or both.
SEC. 8. Such order shall operate as an assignment of the bond to any 
aggrieved party who 1hall be authorised by the court to prosecute the
same, and such party may maintain an action thereon in his own 
name, aa assignee of the aheri.tr or officer to whom the same wu giv- 
en, in the same manner as in other actions on bonds, with condition 
to perform covenants other than for the payment of money. 
SEC. 9. The measure of the damages to be assessed in such action, 
shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained by such aggrieved 
party, by reason of the misconduct for which the attachment was is- 
eued, and his costs and expenses in prosecuting such attachment. 
~ SO. If there be no party aggrieved by the misconduct for which
the 
. •
attachment was issued, the court, in case the defendant shall fail 
to appear according to the condition of the bond taken on the arrest,
shall order the same to be prosecuted by the attorney-general or by 
the district attorney of the county in which the bond was taken, in
the name of the officer who took such bond. 
~ St. In such case the whole penalty of the bond shall be forfeited 
• 
and recovered, and from the monies collected thereon, the court shall
order such sum to be paid to the party prosecuting the attachment, as 
the court ordering the prosecution shall think proper, to satisfy the 
costs and expenses incurred by him, and to compensate him (or any 
injury he~ may have sustained by ~he misconduct for which such at­
tachment was issued ; and the residue of such monies shall be paid
into the treasury of this state. 
SEC. 2. If on the return of executions duly issued upon any judg-T~ldngir,aur
ment obtained on such bond, it shall appear that, the sureties taken 
therein were, at the time of taking them, insufficient, and that the of- 
ficer receiving them had reasonable grounds to doubt their sufficien- 
cy, he shall be liable in an action on the case, to the party aggrieved, 
who may have prosecuted such suit, for the amount of the judgment
recovered by him, and for his costs and expenses in such suit; or if
auch suit was brought by the attorney-general, or a district attorney,
an action on the case may in like manner be brought by them, in the 
name of the people of this state, for the amount of the judgment so
recovered ; and the same disposition of tlle monies collected in such 
action on the cue against such officer, shall be made u directed in
the last section. 
~ SS. When any misconduct, which, by the proviaions of this Ti-
tie, may be punished by fine or imprisonment, shall have occurred at 
any circuit court, or in reference to any procea; or proceedings pend- 
ing in or returnable to such court, and which shall not have been
punished by such court, the supreme court shall have the same juris­ 
diction and power to inquire into and punish the same, as if such mis­
conduct had occurred in the supreme court, or in reference to any
process or proceedings thereon. . 
SEC. 4. Whenever any person who shall have been duly ,ubp(e­
naed to appear at a.circuit court, to testify in any cause to be tried 
therein, shall neglect or refuse to attend, in pursuance of such writ, 
the justice or judge holding such circuit court, shall have power to 
award an attachment against such person, and to proceed thereon to
'punish such misconduct, according to the provisions of this Title, ex-
cept as herein otherwise provided. 
SEC. 5. Such writs of attachment shall be issued under the seal oC
th . h 11 be ed d f th ' 
e supreme court, s a test on some ay o e previous term
of the said court, in the name of the chief justice of the supreme court,
and shall be made returnable in such circuit court, before the judge
holding the same, upon any day previous to the adjournment thereof;
and the allowance of such *its, shall be endorsed thereon by the
judge awarding the same. 
SEC. 6. The officer to whom any such attachment allowed by a
judge holding a circuit, is directed· and delivered, shall execute the
same, by arresting and keeping the defendant in his custody, by bring­ 
ing him personally before the court on the return day thereof, and by
detaining him in such custody until discharged by the order of such
court. 
SEC. 7. Whenever by the provisions of this Title, an officer is requir- 
ed to keep any person arrested upon an attachment, in actual custo- 
dy, and to bring him personally before any court, the inability, from
sickness or otherwise, of such person to attend such court personally,
shall be a sufficient excuse for not bringing him before such court.
N o.r shall any such officer be required, in any case, to confine any 
person arrested upon an attachment to answer for misconduct, in any 
prison, or otherwise to restrain him of personal liberty, except so far
as shall be necessary to secure his personal attendance. 
TITLE XIV. 
OF ARBITRATIONS.
Sse. l. Who mly nbmit; what matten; how, 
2. Clabm to real eltate which ma:, and JD&f not be nbmitted,
8. Arbitraton to appoint time, b. for hearing; ma:, adjolll'D, Ao. 
4, Oath or arbitrators.
6. Oatha to them and witnuae1, ~ whom to be adminiltered. 
6. Attendance or witne1se1 h~ compelled. 
• T •• ,u the arbitraton to meet; when majority may award.
8. Award how to be authenticated, 
Bae. 9, Upoa wut proof award to be con8rmed,
SEC. 0. Ground.I on which putiea may move to ricate award. ·,
SEC. 1. When motion may be made to modify or correct award.
U. Motiom to nate or modify award, when Jmde, &c,
SEC. 8. Powen of court; when to direct new uaring. 
H. Judgment when and how to be rendered; co,tl.
U. lleoord oljadgmat tobe D*le; it.form.
SEC. 8. To be tlled and docketed; itl eft'ect; execution thereon.
lT. Retvn to writ of error on judgment; proceedinp thereon.
SEC. 8. Mode of enforcing jadgmnt f'or perf'ormuce of' any act. 
SEC. 9. Costa on ftC&ling award; payment how enf'orced.
~. Error on order ncating award; return and proceecliDp, 
SEC. 1. Proeeedingl of' court oa reYening order.
SEC. 2. Powen of chancery and certain attiona, not to be afl'ected,
SEC. 8. When nbmiuion can not be revoked; action on boncl, &c. 
SEC. 4. Prooeeclinp in action; damage, to be reconrecl, 
SEC. 5. No other than the damagea mpeciaed to be reconred. 
SEC. 1. All persons, except infants and married women, and persona 
r 
d ] ind b ' • •• bmit th 
o UD90un mm , may, y an instrument in wrdmg, su mil to e 
decision of one or more arbitrators, any controversy existing between 
them, which might be the subject of an action at law, or of a suit in
equity, except as herein otherwise provided; and may, in such sub- 
mission, agree that a judgment of any court of law and of record, to be 
designated in such instrument, shall be rendered upon the award made 
6
SEC. 2. No such submission shall be made, respecting the claim of 
pursuant to such submission. 
, l'. l'. Iif to eal b 
any person to any estate, m iee or tor ,e, r estate ; ut any
claim to an interest for a term of years, or for one year or less, in 
real estate, and controversies respecting the partition of lands between
joint tenants, or tenants in common, or concerning the boundaries of 
lands, or concerning the admeasurement of dower, may be so sub­
mitted to arbitration. 
~ S.. The arbitrators thus selected, shall appoint a time and place
for the hearing, and shall adjourn the same from time to time, as may 
be necessary ; and on the application of either party, and for good
cause, they may postpone such hearing, to a time not extending be- 
yond the day fixed in such submission for rendering their award.
SEC. 4. Before proceeding to hear any testimony, the arbitrators shall 
be sworn faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the matters in con-
troversy, and to make a just award, according to the best of their un­ 
del'Btanding.
SEC. 5. Such oath, and the oaths to witnesses examined before such 
arbitrators, may be administered by any judge of any court of record,
or by any justice of the peace. 
8 
SEC. 6. Witnesses may be compelled to appear before such arbitra-
tors, by subpoenas, to be issued by any justice of the peace, in the 
~ manner and with the like effect, and subject to the same penal- 
lies for disobedience, as in cases of trials before justices of the peace. 
SEC. 7. All the arbitrators must meet together, and hear all the proofs
and allegations of the parties ; but an award by a majority of them, 
• • 
shall be valid, unless the concurrence of all the arbitrators be ex-
pressly required inthe submission. 
SEC. 8. To entitle any award to be enforced according to the provi-
be • '--- ibed b th -..L' 
sions of this Title, it must in writmg, suoscn y e w-u1tra· 
tors making the same, and attested by a 8009CTibing witnell. 
SEC. 9. Upon such submission being proved by the affidavit ofa sub-
scribing witness thereto, and upon the award made in pursuance there- 
of being proved in like manner, or by the affidavit of the arbitrators,
within one year after the making of the same, the court designated in
such submission shall, by rule, in open court, confirm such award,
unless the sarne be vacated or modified; or a decision thereon be post· 
poned, as herein provided.
SEC. 0. Any party complaining of such award, may move the court 
designated in such submission, to vacate the same, upon either of the 
following grounds : 
1. That such award was procured by corruption, fraud or other un-
due means : 
That there was evident partiality or corruption in the arbitra·
tors, or either of them : 
a. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, in refusing to
postpone the hearing, upon sufficient cause shown, or in refusing to
hear any evidence, pertinent and material to the controversy, or any
other misbehavior, by which the rights of any party shall have been 
~~~: . 
4. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers ; or that they so im­ 
perfectly executed them, that a mutual, final and definite award on
the subject matter submitted, was not made. 
11 •. Any party to such submission, may also move the court de­
signated therein, to modify or correct such award, in the following 
cases: 
1. Where there is an evident miacalculation of figures, or an evi­
dent mistake in the description of any person, thing or property, re­ 
ferred to in such award : 
2. Wlu!re the arbitrators shall have awarded upon some matter not
submitted to them, not aff"ecting the merits of the decision upon the
matters submitted : 
a. Where the award shall be imperfect in some matter of form, not 
affecting the merits of the controversy ; and where, if it had. been a
verdict, such defect could have been amended. or disregarded by the
court, according to the provisions of law. · 
SEC. 2. Every such application to vacate or modify an award, shall
be made to the court designated in the submission, at the next term 
after the publication of such award, upon the same notice to the ad· 
1'81'18 party, as in other cases of special motions, if there be time for
that purpoae ; and if there be not time, such court, or any judge there-
of, may, upon good cause shown, order a stay of proceedings on 111ch
award, either absolutely, or upon such terms 88 shall appear just, un- 
til the term of the court next after such first term,
, IS. On such application, the court may vacate such award in 
any of the cases herein before specified ; and if the time 'within which
such award shall have been .required to be made, by the submission, 
has not expired, may, in their discretion, direct a rehearing by the ar-
bitrators ; and in the cases herein specified, the court may modify and
correct such award, so' as to eff"ect the intent thereof, and to promote 
justice between the parties. ·
SEC. 4. Upon such award being confirmed er modified, the court.i.,....e; 
shall render judgment in favor of the party to whom any sum of mo-
ney or damages shall have been awarded, that he recover the same
and if the award shall have ordered any act to be done by either party, 
judgment shall be entered that such act be done according to such or-
der. The costs of the proceedings shall be taxed as in suits; and if 
no provision for the fees and expell888 of the arbitrators shall have
been made in the award, the court shall make the same allowance 88 
provided by law for references ; but no costs shall be taxed for any
Q.ther aervices or expenses prior to such application. 
SEC. 5. A record of such judgment shall be made, commencing with.__..,
a memorandum reciting the submission ; then stating the hearing be-Jadlmellt. 
fore the arbitrators ; their award ; the proceedings of the court there-
upon, in modifying or confirming such award; and the judgment of
the court for the recovery of the debt or damages awarded, and that 
the parties perform the acts ordered by the - award, and for the recove- 
r, of the costs allowed. 
SEC. 6. Such record shall be filed and docketed, 88 records of judg-
ments in other cues ; shall have the same force and effect in all re-=;
apects; be subject to all the provisions of law in relation to judgments 
in actions, and may in like manner be removed and reversed by writ
of error ; and execution shall issue thereupon against the property or
person of any party against whom a recovery shall be had, in all re-
spects 'as upon other judgments. 
SEC. 7. When any writ of error shall be brought on such judgment, 
certified copies of the original affidavits upon which any application 
in relation to such award was founded, and of all other affidavits and
papers relating to such application, shall be annexed to, form a part 
of, and be returned with, the record of the judgment ; and the court 
to which such writ shall be returned, shall revene, modify or amend,
or affir~ such judgment, or any part thereof, according to juatice. 
SEC. 8. Where by such judgment any party aball be Mquired to per· 
form any act, other than the .payment of money, the court~
such judgment &ball enforce the same by rule ; and the party refu&. 
er neglecting to perfonn and execute such act, or any part there- 
of, shall be subject to all the penalties of contemning an order of such 
court, and may be proceeded against in the manner prescribed in the 
thirteenth Title of this Chapter."
SEC. 9. If upon any application made pursuant to the foregoingpro­ 
visions, the court shall vacate and set aside any award of arbitrators, 
coats shall be awarded to the prevailing party; and the payment there­ 
of ~y be enforced by rule-of the court, as in other cases. 
~ !O. Upon every such order vacating an award, the party ag· 
grieved may bring a writ of error, as upon any other judgment of such 
court ; to which writ shall be returned certified copies of such order,
and of all affidavits and papers used on such application ; and the
court to which such writ shall be returned, shall proceed to confirm
or reverse such order, as shall be just. 
SEC. 1. H sfrouch ordb~rchbethereversed, the proceeded ings shedall heh remitted 
to e court m w 1 y were remov , to prooe t ereon; or 
the court to which such proceedings shall have been returned, may 
proceed thereon, after due notice to the party complaining of auch 
award, to modify or confirm the same, in the same manner, and with 
the like ~ffect, as if application for that purpose had been originally
made to such court. 
SEC. 2. Nothing contained in this Title, shall be construed to impair, 
diminish, or in any way affect. the power and authority of the court 
of chancery over arbitrators, awards, or the parties thereto ; nor to 
impair or affect any action upon any award, or upon any bond or other 
engagement to abide by an award. I 
SEC. 8. Whenever any submission to arbitration shall be revoked by 
·a party thereto, before the publication of an award, the party so re­ 
voking, shall be liable to an action by the adverse party, to recover 
all the costs, expenses and damages which he may have incurred in
preparing for such arbitration. But neither party shall have power I 
to revoke the powers of the arbitrators, after the cause shall have
been finally submitted to them, upon a hearing of the parties, for their ' 
decision. 
SEC. 4. If the submission 80 revoked, was contained in the condition 
of any bond, the obJigee in such bond shall be entitled to prosecute
the same, in the same manner as other bonds with conditions other 
than for the payment of money, and· to assign such revocation a, a
breach thereof; and for such breach, he shall recover as damages, the 
costs and expense incurred, and the damages sustained by him in pre­ 
paring for such arbitration. 
I 
I 
SEC. 5. - No other sum, penalty, forfeiture or damages shall be re-
covered for any revocation of a submission to arbitration, than such 
as are prescribed in the two last sections; notwithstanding any mipu.
lated damages, penalty, or forfeiture, contained in such subrnisaion, 
or m any other instrument, or agreement collateral thereto. 
TITLE XV. 
OF THE FORECLOSURE OF l\IOUTGAGES HY ADVERTISEMENT. 
Si:c. I. What mortgage. may be foreclosed by advertisement.
2. Requbite1 to entitle mortgagee to forecl09e, 
8. Notice of foreclosure how to be published, &e.
4. Contents of ,uch notice. 
5. 8-la how postponed.
6. Sale how to be made; how much to be rai1od. 
7. Mortgagee, &:c. may plll'Chase pre1Di1e1.
8. Efl'ect of sale. 
9. Aflidarit of nle, by whom made; ita contents.
JO. Allidavit of publi1hing and affaing notice of sale, &c. 
U. Soch affidavita before whom taken; where filed. · 
SEC. 2. To be recorded; eff'ect as evidence. 
SEC. 3. Place of recording to be noted in record of mortgage.
1'. Endence of title ~hen pW'chue by mortgagee, &c.
U. Cert,ia proYWOn1 re.pectin,: ltate mo~,, not d'eeted. 
SEC. 1. Every mortgage of real estate, heretofore executed by any 
person being at the time more than twenty-five years of age, or here-
after executed by any person over the age of twenty..one years, con
taining therein a power to the mortgagee or any other person, to sell 
the mortgaged premises, upon default being made in any condition of 
eucb mortgage, may be foreclosed by advertisement, in the cases .and 
in the manner herein after specified. 
!!!!!!!! 
8 
SEC. 2. To entitle any party to give a notice as herein after prescrib- 
ed, and to make such foreclosure, it shall be requisite, · 
1. That some default in a condition of such mortgage shall have
occurred, by which the power to sell became operative : 
JI. That no ~uit or proceeding shall have been instituted at law, to 
recover the debt then remaining securer! by such mortgage, or any 
part thereof; or if any snit or proceeding has been instituted, that the
same has been. discontinued, or that an execution upon the judgment 
f'81¥1ered thereon, has been returned unsatisfied in whole or in part :
and, 
a. That such power of sale has been duly registered, or the mort­ 
gage containing the same has been duly -recorded. 
SEC. 8. Notice that such mortgage will be foreclosed by a sale of the 
mortgaged premises, or some part of them, shall be given as follows: 
1. By pubHshing the same for twenty-four weeks, successively,
at least once in each week, in a newspaper printed in the county, 
where the premites intended to be sold shall be situated·; or if Rtl 
preDW188 be situated in two or more counties, in a newspaper ......
in either .of them : 
2. By affixing a c.opy of such notice, at least twenty-four weeb
prior to the time therein specified for the sale, on the outward door 
of the building where the c.ounty courts are directed to be held, in the
county where the premises are situated ; or if there be two or more 
such bpildings, then on the outward door of that which shall be near­ 
est to the premises.• 
SEC. 4. Every such aotice shall specify, _ 
1. The names of the mortgagor and of the mortgagee, and the • 
signee of the mortgage, if any : 
2. The date of the mortgage and where recorded, or where ti.a 
power of sale is registered : 
1. The amount claimed to be due thereon, at the time of the fin& 
publication of such notice : and,
,. A description or the mortgaged premises, conforming IU1Jltan.. 
tially with that contained in the mortgage.
SEC. 6. Such sale may be postponed from time to time, by inaertiag • 
notice of such postponemeni, as soon as practicable, in the newspll*' 
in which the original advertisement wu publiahed, and continuing 
such publication until the time to which the sale shall be postponed. 
SEC. 6. Such sale shall be at public auction, in the day time, in the 
coU11ty_ where the mortgaged premises, or some part of them, are situ­
ated ; except in sales on mortgages to the people of this state, in which
ease the sale may be made at the Capitol. If the premises comilt of 
distinct farms, tracts or lots, they shall be sold separately ; and no 
more farms, tracts or lots shall be eold, than shall be necessary to • 
tisfy the amount due on such mortgage, at the time of the tint pnbli­
Qtion of n<Kice of sale, with interest, and the costs and espemes al· 
lowed by law.10 
7. The mortgagee, his assigns and his or their legal repreaenta­ 
tives, may fairly and in good faith, purchase the premises so adver·
tised, or any part thereof, at such sale. 
11 
SEC. 8. Every sale, pursuant to a power as aforesaid, and condoc~ 
as herein prescribed, made to a purchaser in good faith, shall be equi· 
valent to a foreclosure and sale, under the decree of a court of equity,. 
,o far only, as to be an entire bar of all claim or equity of redemption
of the mortgagor, his hein and representatives, and of all penoDI 
claiming under him or them, by virtue of any tide subsequent to such 
mortgage ; but no mortgagee of the same premises, or any part there­ 
of, whose title accrued prior to such sale, nor any creditor to whom
the mortgaged premises, or any part thereof, were boUDd before ~ 
ale, by any judgment at law or decree in equity, shall be prejudiced . 
by any such sale, nor shall their rights or interests be in any way a(- 
i,cted thereby. is \IV""'1t,,I 
SEC. 9. An affidavit of the fact of any sale pursuant to such notice, Aftlda.,1, 
may be made by the person who officiated 88 auctioneer at such sale, Ale. 
stating the time and place at which the same took place, the sum bid,
and the name of the purchaser, and shall be annexed to a printed ~PY 
of the notice of sale. 
11 
SEC. 0. An affidavit of the publication of such notice of sale, and of or~bn.lr 
· f · be d b h · r th in«, 
any notice o postponement, may ma e y t e prmter o e news- u.,., 
paper in which the same was inserted, or by his foreman or principal
clerk ; and an affidavit of the affixing a copy of such notice on the out­ 
ward-door of the court-house, may be made by the person who affixed 
the same, or by any other person who saw such notice ~ posted, du­
ring the time required.1• 
SEC. 1. The affidavit specified in the two last sections, may~ taken
and certified by any judge of a court of record, any supreme court!?:!' 
commissioner, or any commissionee of deeds, and may be filed m the 
office of the clerk of the county where such sale took place.11 
SEC. 2. Such affidavits shall be recorded at length by such clerk, in
a book kept for the record of mortgages ; and such original affidavits, 
the record thereof, and certified copies of such record, shall be pre-
sumptive evidence of the facts therein contained." 
I ts. A note referring to the page and book where the evidence of
any sale having been made under a mortgage, is recorded, shall be 
tnade by the cierk recording such evidence, in the margin of the re-
cord of such mortgage, if such reeordbe in his office. 
SEC. 4. When the mortgaged premises, or any part of them, shall 
have been purchased at such sale by the mortgagee, bis legal repre-
aentativea, or his or their 888igns, as herein before provided, the affi.
davits of the publication and affixing notice of sale, and of the cir­
cumstances of such sale, shall be evidence of the sale, and of the fore- 
elosnre of the equity of redemption, 88 herein specified, ,rithout any
conveyance being executed, in the same manner and with the like ef- 
fect, 88 a conveyance executed by a mortgagee upon such sale, to a
third person.. 
SEC. 5. Nothing contained in this Title shall affect the provision,
contahied in Title sixth of Chapter ninth of the First Part of the Re- 
vised Statutes, in relation to the foreclosure of mortgagM to the peo-
pie of this state, so far as the same are contrary to the provisions of 
this. Title. 
SEC. 1. Any person owning or possessing any swamp, bog, meadow
or other low Janel, lying in any county within this state, except the 
county of Orange, who shall be desirous to drain such land, and whe 
shall deem it necessary, in order thereto, that a ditch or ditches should
be opened through lands belonging to other persous, in case the owners
of any such lands shall refuse to permit the opening of such ditch or
ditches through the same, may 1Jpply to any justice of the peace re­ 
slding in the town where such lands shall lie, for such summons u is 
herein specified. 
1
• 
TITLE XVI •. 
OF PROCEEDINGS f'OR THE DRAINING OF SW AMPS, MARSHES; AND
O'J'HER LOW LANDS. 
Sze. I. By whom application for l1UIUDODI to be made.
2. SllllllDon1 for jury, content.; notice to owneroflaad.
S. Duty of coa1table; retUJ'D by him.
4. Who jury to be awona; eootenta of oath.
SEC. 6. Proceedings before and by jury; their inquuition. 
1. When applicant may enter aud cut ditch on lands dcaignated.
8. May aho enter aftennarm to clear out ditch.
9. Penalty for obltruc~ing or iajuriog ditch.
SEC. 0. Justiee to file map and inquilitioa in tol\'D clerk'• office. 
SEC. 2. The justice to whom such application shall be made, shall 
thereupon issue a summons directed to any constable of the said toww,
requiring him to summon twelve reputable freeholders, who are not 
interested in the said lands, nor in any of them, nor in any' wise of kin 
to either of the parties, to be and appear on the premises, at a certain 
time to be specified in such summons, not less than ten, nor more than
twenty days from the date thereof. The summons shall also direct
the constable to give at least six days' notice to the owner of such
lands, of the time at which such jury are to appear. H 
SEC. 8. The constable to whom such summons shall ha delivered, shalt 
execute the same by summoning such jurors, in the same manner and
with the like authority, as upon tJenire, issued in causes pending be· 
fore justices of the peace, and shall, in like manner, makie return there­ 
of, and of the fact of his having given the notice therein required. 
SEC. 4. The justice shall attend at the time and place specified in the 
summons, and if it appear that due notice has been given, as required 
in the summons, and if twelve freeholders, as aboee specified, shall 
then and the,e appear, he shall administer to each of them an oath or
affirmation, well and truly to examine and certify, in regard to the 
benefits or damages which will result from the opening of the said di&ch
or ditches.111 
6. The person applying to have such ditch or ditches opened,
shall then deliver to the jury a map of the land through which the 
same are to be opened, on which map the plan, length, width and 
depth of such ditch or ditches, shall be particularly designated. The 
jury shall penonally .examine the premises, and hear any reuona that
may be off'ered, in regard to the question submitted to them ; and they 
may, if they think proper, vary the plan or dimensions of any ditch so
propoeed to be opened·; but in· such case, they shall designate on the 
said map, the alterations made by them.18 
SEC. 6. If, after taking all the circumstances into consideration, the
jury shall be satisfied that the opening of such ditch or ditches is ne- 
cessary and proper, they shall so certify by inquisition in writing; 
and if so satisfied, they shall further certify by such inquisition, that
the benefits which will accrue to the owner of the lands, from the 
openmg of such ditch or ditches, will or will not be equal to any da- 
mages that he will sustain thereby ; end if such benefita shall be cer- 
tified not to be equal to the damages, the jury shall assess the dama- 
ges, which, in their judgment, will be sustained therefrom by such
owner, and certify the same, in like manner. Every such inquisition
shall be signed by all the jurors, and delivered to the justice.18 
SEC. 1. Upon payment of the damages assessed by the jury, and the 
, 
costs of such assessment, or· if no damages shall have been found by 
them, upon payment of the costs of the proceedings, and the delivery 
of the certificate of the jury to the justice, it shall be lawful for the
person applying for such summons, to enter, with his servants, teams,
carriages, and other necessary implements, upon such lands, and then
and there to cut and open such ditch or ditches as were designated on 
the said map, according to the plan and dimensions' therein specified
and adopted by the jury, not deviating materially from such dimen .. 
sions." 
SEC. 8. After such ditch or ditches shall have been opened, it shall
be iawful for the said applicant, his heirs and assigns forever there- 
after, from time to time, as it shall become necessary, to enter upon
the lands through which such ditch or ditches shall have been opened, 
for the purpose of clearing out and scouring the same ; and then and 
there to clear out and scour such ditch or ditches, in such. manner as 
to preserve the original length, depth, and width thereof.18 · 
SEC. 9. Any person who shall dam up, obstruct, or in any way injure
any ditch or ditches so opened, shall be liable to pay to the person
owning or possessing the swamp, bog, meadow, or other low. land,
Jor the draining of which such ditch or ditches shall have been open· 
ed, double the damages that shall be assessed by the jury for such in-
jury ; and in case of a second offence by the same person, treble such 
damages.'' 
SEC. 0. 'the justice before whom any proceedings shall be,had under
this Title, shall cause the map delivered by the applicant, and the in .. 
quiaition of the jury which he shall certify to have been taken before 
him, to.be filed in the clerk's office oftlae,town wherein the,.,...,. 
ahall besituated, to be bpt in the aid office aa a record ef ti.a 19' 
oeedina, between the partiea.20 
I!!!!!! 
TITLE XVII. 
GENERAL MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS CONCERNING SUITS AND
PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES. 
SEC. 1. Peauty (or auing in name oC another without consent. 
I. .Jaron ancl officen not to be dnqaaliAed in eertain euea.
L Fae oa alaeri6, Ito. for not aentinc prooe,1 ua specW JIIOCNllmp. 
4. When finu may be impo1ed on juron for default. 
I. Sherlft'a ud other offlcen to attencl certain juriea, Ice.; flDe for aegleet. 
6. Notice ol 6ae tcr be P'HD to penon bed,
'J. When delinquney ud fine to be certi4ed to commoa pleu. 
8. Proceediap to eolleet ftne.
9. otioen -,cnrencl to take WI, k may admilluter--. 
SEC. 0. When notice1 may be printed in new,pqer oC another county. 
SEC. 1. Oath, to be adminiatered by certain offleen in certain c:uea. 
n. 05cill ~ of peper DOt beiDg foaad, bow Car mcleace. 
SEC. 8. Bwta by the people, 1ubjeet to all law, relating to rrinte 1uita. 
u. Com of nch •• bow to be certiW ad put. 
II. Detiaae ad oatlawry in eiril cue,, aboliaud. 
SEC. 6. Trupau OD the cue may be brought for certain trapaue,. 
SEC. 7. Copy ol certain 111ggeat.iou to be Nned on •nne party.
SEC. 8. Trath of lllgtltioD Jaow to be tried, &e. 
SEC. 9. Party making 1uggestion may be noa-suited, &e. 
to. Cue, when defendant may tender debt or damage,. 
tl a: a Uect oC~, iC f'oand adclmt.
SEC. 1. Tender wbea accepted, to be dedacted uom reccmry, &a.
SEC. 5. Proceedinp to compel teltimony on motiou in supremecowt . 
.. DildlugiDg juie, or inqairy, '"· in ,pecial cuu, h
17, Majority ol ~. l:c. -.y act upon meeting of all, 
ts, 29 I: 80, Proceedinga to collect nrplu arising from ule oftuea, paid to npenitor
. 81, Particalar number of daya between lute and retum ot proce ... 
Bi Attacbmuta apin,t 1heriff'a ne~ng to retUl'D certain warnne,,
II. Bond, required by law, when deemed 1a1&eient.
8" When defect. therein may be amended. 
85, Judgment. rendered bef'ore dirilion oh coanty, how executed. 
SEC. 8. When defendant. impri,oned to be charged in execntion. 
S'T, W\en and how to be diacharged; efl"ect thereof.
SEC. 8. Certain tnnacripta to be obtained from United State, court in Ne,r-Yodl. 
SEC. 9. To be entered in hi, docket by clerk of supreme court in Ne~· York.
SEC. 0. To be 1ent to clerk, at Albany and Utica; and entered by them.
SEC. 1. Tnnacripta from United Statet court at Utica, to be obtained.
.. To be tnnacribed ud Nill to Albuy and New-York, 
SEC. 8. Such tnn,cript. to be obtained hereafter ud aent, A~ 
44, Dockeu in what boob to be enterd.
SEC. 5. ExpenH oC procuring tranaeripta, &c. bow paid.
SEC. 6. Feel for eeerchee ud copiu or such tran1cripta. 
SEC. 1. Every penon who shall, for vexation and trouble, or maJi· 
cioualy, cause or procure any other to be arrested, attached, or in any 
way proceeded against, by any process or proceeding at law or in 
~uity, or in any other manner prescribed by law, to answer to the
suit or prosecution of any person, without the consent of such prno,i. 
or where there ia no such person known, shall forfeit to the persJP ., 
masted, attached or proceeded against, treble tbe damages and ex- 
panses, which, by any verdict, ahall be bmd to have· been 8111t•i:oed 
and incurred by him ; and shall forfeit to the pel'IOll in wh018 name 
such arrest or proceeding was had, two hundred aod fifty dollars
and shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable, on convic- 
tion, by i~priloninent, for a time not exceeding six months. n 
SEC. 2. No inhabitant of any town, ci~ or county, shall be diaqualifi- 
ad as a juror or witness in any cause brought to recover any penalty 
or forfeiture, on the ground that such penalty or forfeiture is to be ap- 
plied for the benefit of such town, city or county, or for tho benefit of 
the poor thereof; nor shall atlY officer, on sach ground, be di.lqualified
&om 1erving any proce81 for the summoning of a jury in such cause. si 
I S. Every· sheriff; constable, marshal or other officer, to whom 
lhall be directed and delivered any attachment, snromooa, precept to 
111mmon a jury, warrant to apprehend a wiCn888 or any other penoa,
or any other procet8 authomed by law to be iasued by a circuit judge, 
111preme court commillioner, judge of county courts, or justice of the
peace, in any special proceeding or matter before such judge, commia- 
liooer or justice, except civil suits before justices of, the peace, shall 
execute such process, as therein commanded, and for any wilful neg-
lect ao to do, may be fined by the officer u.uing the same, in a .sum 
not exceeding twenty-five dollars/IS
SEC. 4. When any person shall have been personally summoned to 
d
. . . . hi h ddofaalta. 
atten as a Juror, to mquire mto any matter or t mg, or to ear an
try any controversy, in any special proceeding or matter specified in 
the lut section, and shall wilfully neglect to attend in obedience to 
such summons, he may be fined by the officer issuing the same, in a
sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars. But this section shall not ex- 
tend to any case where special provision is made by law, for punish- 
ing the default of any juror • .H 
SEC. 5. When any sheriff, constable or other officer, who shall have 
. h . ed. th I .. 
summoned any jury, mt e cases mention m e two ast sections, 
shall be required 'by the ~officer issuing· such summons, to attend such 
jury and take charge of them, he shall be bound to do so; and for any
wilful neglect to obey such order, or for any misconduct while attend- 
ing such jury, by which the rights o~ remedies of any party to such
proceeding may be impaired or prejudiced, such sheriff, constable
or -other officer shall be liable to be fined by the officer before whom 
such jury shall have appeared, in a sum not exceeding twenty-five 
dollars. 
SEC. 6. Upon such fine being imposed in any of the cases herein before 
specified, notice thereof shall be given to the person fined, to the end 
that be may render any excuse to the officer imposing the same, or 
show cause why such fine should be remitted. 
, "I. If no such excuae be. rendered, or cauae lhown, within thirty 
day~ after the service of_ such, ~tice, and 8UCh fine shall. not have been
remitted by the officer 1mpoamg the same, such officer &ball make a 
special return of the delinquency or mieconduct for which such fine was 
impoaed, ,with the amount thereo~ to the next court of common pleas 
of the county in which such delinquent shall reside. 2a 
SEC. 8. The clerk of the court to which such return shall be made,
ahall deliver a copy thereof to ihe district attorney of the county, with 
copies of the minutes of fines imposed by such court, and in the ame 
manner; which shall be collected, and may be remitted or mitigated,
in the same manner as fines imposed by courts of record, upon dewllt­ 
ing jurors. 
SEC. 9. Whe~ver any officer is autboriaed or required by law to take 
any sureties or bail, or to approve any sureties or bail, be aball be•• 
thorised to administer an oath to every person who shall be,o&ral u
such bail or surety, to ascertain his sufficiency •. 
SEC. 0. Whenever a notice or other proceeding is required by any 
statute to be published in a newspaper of any particular county, if
there be no newspaper published in such county, such notice or prc>­ 
ceeding may be published in a newspaper of an adjoining county. 
SEC. 1. Whenever application shall be made to the commissioners
of the land-office, the canal board, canal commissioners, or any of 
them, or to any other public officer, to do any act in an official capa-
city, and such board or officer shall require information or proof, to 
enable them or him to decide on the propriety of doing such act, such 
information or proof may be required to be given by affidavit, and any 
member of such board, or such officer, may administer all necessary
oaths for that purpose. 
SEC. 2. Whenever any officer to whom the legal custody of any doeu-
ment or paper shall belong, shall certify, under his official seal, that 
he has made diligent examination in his office for such paper, and 
that it cannot be found, such certificate shall be presumptive evidence
of the facts so certified, in all causes, matters and proceedings, in the
same manner and with the like effect, as if such officer had personal· 
ly testified to the same in the court or before the officer, before whom 
such cause, matter or proceeding may be pending. 
~ IS. E,rery suit or proceeding in a civil case, instituted in .the 
name of the people of this state, by any public officer duly authorised
for that purpose, shall be subject to all the provisions of law respect­
ing similar suits or proceedings, when instituted by or in the name of 
any citizen, except where provision is or shall be otherwise exp~-
ly made by statute; and in all such suits and proceedings, the people 
of this state shall be liable to be non-suited, and to ~ave judgments of 
tl0fl1W08 or of discontinuance entered against them, in the same ca- 
a,s, in like manner and with the same effect, as in suits brought by
citizens, except that no execution shall issue thereon. 
SEC. 4. Whenever costs shall be adjudged against the people of this 
state, in any civil suit or proceeding instituted by any officer duly
authorised for that purpose, it shall be the duty of the comptroller to
draw on the treasurer for the amount thereof, upon the production of
an authenticated copy of the record of judgment, or of the order ad­ 
judging such costs, with a taxed bill thereof, and upon a certificate of 
the attorney-general, that such suit or proceeding was duly instituted,
as by law required. 
SEC. 5. The- action of detinue is hereby abolished; and all process
and proceedings to outlaw any defendant in a civil action, are also 
hereby abolished.
SEC. 6. Where by the wrongful act of any person, an injury is pro- 
duced either to the person, personal property, or ri~f another, or
to his servant, child or wife, for which an action of trespass may by 
law be brought, an action of trespass on the case may be brought to 
recover damages for such injury, whether it was wilful, or accompa-
nied by force or not ; and whether such injury was a direct and im­
mediate consequence from such wrongful act, or whether it was conse­
quential and indirect. 
SEC. 7. Whenever a suggestion shall be made upon the record, or in 
any stage of the proceedings, in any cause, which the adverse party
shall have a right to controvert, a copy of such suggestion sha11 be
served upon such adverse party, or his attorney, in the same manner
as other pleadings, and such party may plead thereto, according to
the practice of the court, in the same manner and within the same
time, as to declarations. ' 
SEC. 8. If an issue of fact be joined upon any such suggestion, the 
same shall be tried and judgment rendered thereon, as on other issues ;
and if a default be taken against the party who ought to have pleaded 
to the same, or if judgment upon demurrer or otherwise, be rendered
against such party, a writ of inquiry shall issue to ascertain the truth
of such suggestion, unless otherwise ordered by the court ; upon which
the same proceedings and judgment shall be had, as upon writs of in-
quiry in personal actions to assess damages. 
SEC. 9. The party making such suggestion may be non-suited, and
may have judgment of non-proa or discontinuance entered against him, 
for the same causes and in the same cases, as in suits at law.
~ IO. When any action at law shall be commenced, for the reco- 
very of a sum certain, or which may be reducooto-certainty by cal-
culation, or for a casual or involuntary trespass or injury, the defen-
dant, in any stage of the proceedings, before trial in such causes, or 
before such damages shall have ~n &Meued, or before judgment 
rendered in an action of debt, may tender to the plaintiff', or bia attor­
ney, any sum of money which such defendant shall conceive sufli· 
cient amends for the injury done, for which such action or proceeding 
was instituted, or sufficient to pay the plaintiff's demand, together 
with the costs of such action or proceeding, to the time of making
such tender. 
SEC. 1. If it shall appear, upon the trial of the cause, or upon the
assessment of damages, that the amount so tendered, was sufficient to 
pay the plaintiff's demand, and the costs of the suit or proceeding up 
to the time of such tender, the plaintiff shall not be entitled to recover
or collect any interest on such demand f'rom the time of such tender, 
or any costs incurred subsequent to that time, but shall be liable to 
the defendant for the costs incurred by him subsequent to such time. 
SEC. 2. If the action or proceeding be to recover damages, and it 
shall appear, that the sum tendered was a sufficient amends for the 
injury done, and for the costs, as before mentioned, the plaintiff
shall not be entitled to recover any costs in any such action or pro­
ceeding, incurred after such tender, but shall be liable to the defen· 
dant for his costs incurred after that time.
2S. If any such tender be accepted by the plaintiff, and he shall 
thereafter proceed in the action, the sum so accepted shall be deduct·
ed from the whole amount of the recovery, and judgment shall be 
rendered only for the residue; and an entry of such tender and ac­
ceptance shall be made on the record. The plaintiff's right to re­ 
cover costs, and his liability to pay costs to the defendant, shall be de­ 
termined by the amount o( such residue. 
SEC. 4. When there shall be a motion or other proceeding in the SU· 
preme court, in which it shall be necessary for either party to have
the deposition of any witness who shall have refused voluntanly to 
make his deposition, the court may direct a commission to be issued
to one or more persons, inhabitants of the county in which such wit·
ness resides, to take his testimony. 
SEC. 5. Such witness may be subpoenaed to attend and testify be­ 
fore such commissioners, in the same manner as before referees, and 
with the like effect ; and obedience to such subprenas shall be en·
forced in the same manner. 
SEC. 6. When any jury shall be impannelled to try any iuue, to
mako any inquiry, or to &88088 any damages, if they cannot agree, af. 
ter being kept together for such time u shall be deemed reasonable 
by the court or officer before whom they shall have appeared and been
impannelled, such court or officer may discharge them.and issue apre­
cept for a new jury, or order another jury to be drawn, as the case 
may require ; and the same proceadings shall be had before such new
ju,y, as might have been had before the jury so discharged. 
. , 
SEC. 7. Whenever any power, authority or duty is confided by law 
th
d h
hr ffi
to ree or more per~ an w enever t ee or more persons or o 
cers are authorised or.rt:quired by law to perform any act, such act
may be done, and suchpower, authority or duty may be exercised and
performed hy a majority of such persons or officers, upon a meeting of
all the persons or officers so entrusted or empowered, unless special
provision, is otherw~ mede. 
SEC. 8. Whenever a 11urplua arising from the sale of any property
diatrained for taxes, paid over to the supervisor of a town, shall be 
claimed by any other than the person for whose tax such property was 
eold, and such claim shall be contested by such person, such claimant
shall be entitled to maintain an action against such person; and the
person for whose tax such property was sold, may also maintain such
action against such claimant, as for money had and received ; in which 
the right of the respective parties to such surplus, shall be tried and
determined. 
SEC. 9. For the pu~ses of such action, the defendant shall be deem-
ed to be in possession of the surplus in the hands of the supervisor. 
Upon a certified copy of the final judgment that shall have been ren-
dered in favor of either party, being produced to the supervisor, in
whose hands such surplus shall be, he shall pay over the same to the 
party so recovering. And no supervisor shall be liable to any action 
in favor of any claimant of such surplus, the right of which shall be
contested as provided in the fourth section of the third Title of Chap-
ter thirteen of the First Part of the Revised Statutes, until he shall 
have refused to pay over such surplus upon the production of a judg-
ment as aforesaid. 
~ SO. In any action brought pursuant to the two last preceding sec·
tions, no other cause of action shall be joined, nor shall any set-off be
allowed ; and if an execution issue on a judgment so rendered, it shall
direct the costs only of such judgment to be levied thereon. 
~ St. It shall not be necessary to have any particular number ofp,oce,a.
days intervene between the teste and return day of any process, ex·
cept writs of capia ad aatiaf aciendum, when issued for the purpose 
of charging bail.
SEC. 2. WheneYer any sheriff shall have neglected to return any 
warrant Issued by a county treasurer, against any collector, or any 
warrant issued by the comptroller' against any collector of canal tolls,
or shall have· made any other return than that required by law, he 
· shall be proceeded against in the supreme court, by attachment, for
his neglect, in the same manner and with the like effect, as for ne­
glecting to return any execution in a civil suit; and the proceedings
thereon shall be the same in all respects. 
~ SS. Whenever a bond is or shall be required by law to be given
by any person, in order to entitle him to any ript or privilege con­ 
ferred by law, or to commence any proceeding, it shall not be neces­ 
sary for such bond to conform in all respects to the form thereof pre­
scribed by any statute, but the same shall be deemed sufficient if it
conform thereto substantially, and do not vary in any matter, to the
prejudice of the rights of the party, to whom or for whoee benefit
such bond shall have been given. 
SEC. 4. Whenever such bond shall be defective in any respect, the 
ffi bod h Id be th ised 
h
court, o cer or y w o wou au on to receive t e same, or 
O 
to entertain any proceedings, in consequence of such bond, if the same 
had been perfect, may, on the application of all the obligors therein,
amend the same in any respect ; and such bond shall thereupon be 
deemed valid from the time of the execution thereo£ 
SEC. 5. Where any county has been or shall be divided, any judg· . 
h h be ed J.. • t h d" • · -A- 
ment t at may ave en recover prt:;v1ous o sue 1v1S1on, or 1U1er 
such division upon any proceedings instituted previous thereto, in the 
court of common pleas of such county, or before any justice of the 
peace thereof, may be collected by execution to be issued to the sberif
of the county where such judgment shall have been rendered, or to a
constable thereof, as the case may require, who shall execute the 
same, in the same manner as if such division had not been made; and
such judgments may be revived, and the like proceedings may be bad
thereon, as if such county had not been divided. 
SEC. 6. When any defendant, at the time judgment shall be render· 
hi f d h • f 
ed against im, in any court o recor , s all be in the custody o a
sheriff or other officer, either upon process in the suit in which such 
judgment shall have been rendered, or upon being surrendered in dis­ 
charge of his bail in such suit, the plaintiff in such judgment shall 
charge such defendant in execution thereon, within three months after
the last day of the term next following that at which such judgment
shall have been obtained. And where any defendant shall be in cus­
tody upon a surrender in discharge of his bail, made after a judgment
obtained against him, and such bail shall be thereupon exonerated, the 
plaintiff in such judgment shall charge such defendant in execution
thereon, within three months after such surrender, or if an execution
against the property of such defendant shall have been issued, within
three months after the return day of such execution. 
24 
SEC. 7. If any plaintiff shall neglect so to charge any defendant in 
execution, as required in the last section, such defendant may be dis­ 
charged from custody by a supersedeas to be allowed by any judge of
the court in which such judgment shall have been obtained, unless 
good cause to the contrary be shown ; and after being so discharged, 
such deiendant,shall not be liable to be arrested upon any execution
which shall be issued upon such judgment.16 
~ SS. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court in the
city of New-York, within six months after this Title shall take effect 
as a law, to procure from the clerk of the district court of the United
States, for the southern district of New-York, a certified copy of the 
dockets of all judgments rendered in that court, or in the circuit court 
of the United States, for that district, and docketed since the first day 
of January one thousand eight hundred and thirty. 
SEC. 9. The said clerk of the supreme court, shall immediately cause
th
be 
'bed , book , h .
e same to transcri . into proper s, m t e same manner m 
which dockets of judgments rendered in courts of record in this state
are in this act directed to be entered, leaving proper blanks in such
books, to add transcripts of future judgments, in the manner herein
after prescribed. 
SEC. 0. Upon completing' such transcript, and within one month af-Tobe•ntto 
ter he shall have obtained such certified copy as herein directed, the
said clerk shall transmit such copy to the clerk of the supreme court 
residing at Albany, who shall immediately, in like manner as herein
before directed, cause the same to be transcribed in proper books ; and
within one month after receiving such copy, shall transmit the same
to the clerk of the supreme court in Utica, who shall in like manner 
transcribe the same into proper books.
SEC. 1. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court in U ti- 
ithi ' h ft th' Titl h 11 k ffi I 
ca, WI in SIX mont s a er is 1 es a ta e e ect as a aw, to pro- 
cure from the clerk of the district court of the United States, for the 
northern district of New-York, a certified copy of the docket of all
judgments rendered and docketed in that court, either as a district 
court or as a circuit court, since the first day of January one thousand
eight hundred and thirty. 
SEC. 2. The said clerk shall transcribe such dockets in proper books,
and in the same manner in which dockets of judgments rendered in
the southern district of New-York are hereby directed to be entered ;
and shall within one month after obtaining such copy, transmit the 
same to the clerk of the supreme court in Albany, who shall in like
manner transcribe such copy into proper books; and within one month
after the receipt of such copy, shall transmit the same to the clerk of
the supreme court in New-York, to be in like manner transcribed in- 
to proper books.
SEC. 8. At the respective times when the clerks of the supreme court 
in New-York and Utica, are by law required to transmit certified co-
pies of dockets of judgments in the said court, they shall respectively 
procure from the clerk of the district court of the United States of that 
district in which they reside, certified copies of all docbta of judg­ 
ments rendered in such district court, or in the circuit court of such 
district, and docketed since the last certified copies of such dockets
.were obtained; they shall respectively transcribe such copies into the 
books provided as herein before specified, and shall transmit such co­ 
pies to the clerk of the supreme court at Albany, to be in like man­
ner transcribed by him, and when so entered, to be transmitted by
him to the clerk of the supreme court in New- York, or to the clerk of
that court in Utica, as the case may be, who shall respectively tran-
scribe the same in the books herein before specified. 
SEC. 4. The docket of judgments rendered in the southern and north-
em districts, shall be entered in the same books, noting in the margin
of such dockets respectively, the court in which such judgments were
rendered. 
SEC. 5. The expense of procuring the certified copies of dockets of
ed th fi f h id 
judgments, as herein requir , of transcribing e rst o t e sa1 cer-
tified copies which shall be so procured, of procuring the necessary 
books for that purpose, and of the postage of the several copies which
shall be transmitted as herein required, shall be paid out of the treasu­
ry, on being audited and allowed by the comptroller. 
SEC. 6. The clerks of the supreme court shall be entitled to the same
fees for aearches and for certified copies from any of the dockets ao 
entered by them, as are allowed by law for similar services in respect 
to dockets of judgments rendered in the supreme court. 
Of the Writ of Habeas Corpus; of Writs of Error, 
Appeals, Informations, and Proceedings com­
. menced by any Special Writ. 
TITLE 1.-0f the writs of habeas corpus and certiorari, in certain cases. 
T1TLE 2.-0f proceedings by scire facias, by information in certain ca­ 
ses, mandamus, prohibition, and ad quod damnum. 
TITLE 3.-0f writs of error, and appeals. 
OF THE WRITS OF HABEAS CORPUS AND CERTIORARI, JN CERTAIN
CASES. 
AnT. 1.-0f the writ of habeas corpus, to being up a person to tf!atify, or to answer in 
certain cases,
Aa.T. i.-Of the writs of habeas corpua aod certiorarl, when blued to inquire into the 
cause of detention. 
SEC. 1. 
OHA.P. IX. 
!!!!!!!!!! 
TITLE I. 
A..B.TICLB l'IBST. 
QI' tie Writ ef Habeas Corpu, to l>rin6 up a PerlM& to teatify, 
or to aft8t.Der in certain Caau. 
S.c. J. U.... eorpu te ~ •p priloaen to t•tily· ·
2. Application tberefor how to be made ud vel'.wed. 
a Oilicen who are authorised to allow writ.
4. May be had in saita Wore jutioe1, in eertain ceeet, 
, I. Priaoaen in exeeation, •c. to be remanded, 
6. When writ to iaaue to take fugitina from service.
7. P.roofaeeenary to entitle to writ. 
8. Sheriff' how to uecute writ. 
9. Pl'oceedinp OD hearing claim.
10 • .FllgitiTe when to be dilcbarged; penalty on claimat. 
SEC. 1. How and when claimant entitled to take fugitin. 
SEC. 2. .Autlaority of claimant under certificate.
SEC. 1. Feea and open ... te be paid by claimant; when. 
SEC. 4. Penalty on juaticea, Ac. grating proceas to arreat fagitivea, Ac. 
l&. Fugitive entitled to writ of homine replegiando.
SEC. 6. Security when to be gi't'U by fagitin.
SEC. 7. ProceediDp Oii babeu eorpu ,upended. 
SEC. 8. Fugitive not to be taken, &c. except u herein authorised.
SEC. 9. Penalty for taking, attempting to remon, &c. fugitift. 
• Peaalty oa ofticen for not obeying, &o. babeu eorpu. 
SEC. 1. Every court of record shall have power, upon the ap-
plication of any party to any suit or proceeding, civil or criminal, 
pending in such court, to issue a writ of Aabeaa corp1'8, for the pur-
pose of bringing before the said court, any prisoner who may be de-
tained in any jail or prison within this state, for any cause except a
sentence for a felony, to be examined as a witness in such suit or pro­
ceeding, in behalf of the party making the application. 
SEC. 2. Every such application shall be verified by affidavit, and shall 
8~~, 
1. The title and nature of the suit or proceeding, in regard to
which the testimony of such prisoner is desired : and, 
2. That the testimony of such prisoner is material and necessary 
to such party, on the trial or hearing of such suit or proceeding, as he
i.s advised by counse1, and verily believes : 
If the application be made by the attorney-general or the district
attorney, it shall not be necessary to swear to such advice or coun­
sel. 
, S. Such writ may also be issued by the chancellor or any jus- 
. r th . ffi th !--.l fc the d
lice o e supreme court, or any o cer au orUM:U to per orm u- 
tics of such justice, upon the like application of a party to any suit or
proceeding pending in a court of record, or pending before any officer 
or body who may be authorised to examine witnesses, in any suit or
proceeding. 
SEC. 4. Such writ may also be issued by any of the officers aforesaid, 
upon the application of a party to a suit before any justice of the
peace, to bring any prisoner confined in the jail of the same county, 
or the county next adjoining that where such justice may reside, be-
fore such justice, to be examined as a witness. 
• 
SEC. 5. Whenever any person shall be in execution on any civil pro-
cess, or committed on any criminal charge, and a 1aabeaa corpva 
- 
shall be issued to bring the body of such prisoner before any court to
testify, or to answer for any contemp; or any other matter, and it.be 
returned upon the writ, that the prisoner is charged in execution, or
committed as aforesaid, he shall be remanded, after having testified;
and if any order or commitment be made against such prisoner, he
shall be so c.ommitted to the prison from which he was taken. 
SEC. 6. Whenever any person legally held to labor or service in any
state or territory of the United States, shall escape into this state, the 
person entitled to the services of such fugitive, or the agent of such
person duly authorised by him, upon making due proof of such title,
to any court or officer authorised to issue. writs of habeas COJ'J'U8
under the second Article of this Title, shall be entitled to a writ of 
habeaa corpU8, to be directed to the sheriff of the county where such
fugitive shall be, commanding such .sheriff to take the body of such fu­
gitive, and have him before the court or officer issuing such writ, on
a day therein to be specified, to answer to such claim. 
SEC. 7. The proof to entitle any person to such writ, shall be by affi-
davit, setting forth minutely' and particularly the ground of such claim 
to the services of such fugitive, the time of the escape of such fugitive,
and where he then is. 
SEC. 8. The sheriff to whom such writ shall be directed and deliver-
ed, shall execute the same, by arresting and taking the body of such
fugitive, and bringing him· before the officer or court before whom such
writ shall be returnable. 
SEC. 9. Such officer or court shall proceed to hear the allegations and
proofs of the parties ; and shall, if required, allow a reasonable time 
to either party, to procure further necessary proof; and in such case,
shall commit such fugitive to the custody of the sheriff of the county,
for safe keeping ; or may take a bond, in such penalty as shall be
deemed satisfactory, with sufficient sureties, to the person claiming the
services of such fugitive, conditioned that such fugitive shall appear
before such court or officer, at the time and place therein specified,
to abide the order and decision of such court or officer, in relation to
such claim. 
SEC. 0. If upon the hearing of the parties, such court or officer shall
be satisfied that the person claiming the service of such fugitive, is
not entitled thereto, such fugitive shall be discharged; and the per­
son making such claim, shall forfeit to such fugitive, one hundred
dollars, and such fugitive shall also be entitled to recover of such
person, the costs and expenses incurred by him, and the damages he 
may have sustained. 
1 
~ 1 J. If it shall appear that the person making such claim, is en-
titled to the services of such fugitive, the court or officer before whom 
, 
such hearing shall have been had, shall grant to such claimant a cer-
~, stating that it satisfactorily appears that such fugitive ( who 
· sLiill be particularly described in such certificate, by his name, age,
size, and personal appearance,) doth owe service or labor to the per­
son claiming the same, naming such person and his place of resi­
dence ; and thereby allowing such person, or his agent, to be also
named in such certificate, to take such fugitive, and convey him to
the' place of residence of the person entitled to his labor or service;
and such fugitive shall thereupon be delivered to such claimant, or 
to his agent, duly appointed to receive such' fugitive.
SEC. 2. Such certificate shall authorise the person having the same, 
h
f , , b , d , h d 
to remove sue ugitive t erem name , wit out any unnecessary e- 
lay, through and out of this state, on the direct route to the place of
residence, of the claimant of such fugitive. 
SEC. 8. The fees and expenses incurred in any proceedings herein
authorised, shall be paid by the person claiming the services of any 
such fugitive, before any writ shall be allowed, or other service ren-
dered, for which such fee shall be chargeable. 
SEC. 4. No justice of the peace, magistrate, or other officer appoint- 
ed
d h
th
' f ~L~- the h th 
UD er t e au ority· o . uw. state, o r t an e courts and officers
herein authorised to issue writs of habeas corpus, shall be authorised 
to grant any warrant or other process, to arrest any person alleged to
be a fugitive from labor or service; or to grant any certificate of any 
proof having been adduced, of the title of any claimant to the services
of any such fugitive; and any officer violating this provision, shall
forfeit five hundred dollars to the party aggrieved, and shall be deem- 
ed guilty of a misdemeanor.
SEC. 5. Notwithstanding such writ of habeas corpus may have 
been issued or served, such fugitive shall be entitled to bring his writ
of homine replegiando against. the person claiming the services of 
such fugitive, or against the agent of such person, whether such fugi-
tlve be in custody by virtue of a writ of habeas corpus, or not. 
SEC. 6. If such fugitive be in custody, it shall not be necessary for
him to give security for the prosecution of the writ of Aomine reple­ 
pndo; but he shall not be delivered from custody by virtue of such
writ, without having given the security required by law. 
SEC. 7. Upon such writ of homine replegiando being brought, all 
. 
proceedings upon any writ of habeaa corpua that may have been is-// 
sued to apprehend such fugitive, and upon any other process, certifi- 
cate or proceeding, authorising the caption or removal of such fugi- 
. tive shall be susp ended, until final judgment shall be given upon such 
, I 
writ of lwmi11e replegiando. 
SEC. 8. No person claiming the service of any such fugitive, or the
agent of such person, or any officer or other person, shall take or 
h fu , , fro , h h
remove sue gitive m thl8 state, ors all do any act towards sue 
I I tho ised d the . • f this 
remova , un ess au r so to o, pursuant to proV181oll8 o 
Article.
SEC. 9. Every person violating the provisions of the last section, and 
every person who shall remove from this state, or attempt so to re­ 
move, any such fugitive from service or labor, or any one alleged to
be such fugitive, under any pretended certificate granted by any judge 
or officer, or under any other pretence after a writ of laomine reple­
giando shall have been brought, and before judgment thereon, ~
forfeit five hundred dollars to the aggrieved party. ' 
SEC. 0. Whenever any writ of habeas corpua shall be issued pur­ 
suant to either of the provisions of this Article, it shall be the duty of 
the officer to whom the same shall be delivered, to obey and return 
such writ, according to the command1hereof, in the manner and with­ 
in the time prescribed by law; and every officer who shall refuse or
neglect so to do, shall forfeit to the people of this state, where the
writ was issued upon the application of the attorney-general or~
trict attorney, and in other cases, to the party upon whose applica­ 
tion the same shall have issued, the sum of five hundred dollars. 
ARTICLE SECOND. 
0/the Wriu of Habea. Oorpua and Certiorari, tohffl ii~ to 
inquire into the cau,e of ddention~ 
Sso. II. Who entitled to pro1ecnte 111ch 11lit. 
n. Who may not p10NCute the writ.
2S. Applieatioo lor writ bow and to whom to be made. 
M. Prool nquind when application made in another eoontJ. 
SEC. 5. Contents of petition for writ, and how TeriAecl . 
•• When writ to be granted; and without delay. 
SEC. 7. Form ofwrit ofhabeu corpu. 
SEC. 8. Form o( writ o( certionri •
•• When writa to be deemed nlielent. 
SEC. 0. Duty o( certain judgea to ilne writ in certain cuu. 
II. Penalty OD court. ud of&cen refmiag writ. •
S Coatellta o( return to writ; when to be IWO!'D to.
SEC. 8. Body ol pruoner to be bronglat up on habeu corpm. 
8-t. Attachment for cli10bedience to certionri or babeu corpu. 
SEC. 5. How directed ud execated apimt a lheriJI'. 
SEC. 6. PrilODef aJ.o to be taken ud brought before otlicer. 
:rt. Officer executing att.chment m&J call power oC the COIIDtJ. 
SEC. 0. nt.m of writ, olieer, &c. to iDq1lin iato deteatioD, &c. 
19, When p1UODel' to be clucbarged.
SEC. 0. When priloner to be remanded. 
SEC. 1. Pmonen on ciTil proceu, when to be cli1charged.
SEC. 2. Legality, &c. or certain commitment. not to be inquired into.
SEC. 8. Proceedinp when criminal commitment i1 irregular.
SEC. 4. .ProoeediDp when priaoa• ii not cluclwged or bailed. 
SEC. 1. Cutody olpriaoaer between return and jndgment thereon. 
SEC. 8. When ud what notice to be ginn to partiea interettecl. 
a. When notice to be ginn to cliflrict attorney.
SEC. 8. EYidence apilllt return and in its 1upport. 
SEC. 9. · When pri1oner need not be brought 11p on writ. 
m. Wben certiorari to i11ue in1te&d or habeu corpu. 
Sze. SI. ProeeediJtaa OD Ntarn to certiorari. 
SEC. 2. When to due~ pri,oner; when proceeding. to ceue.
SEC. 8. Babeu eorpu may iane; wbea party eatitled to iL 
SEC. 6. Bow priloner Wied oa eertiorari.
SEC. 6. Evidence to entitle him to diacbarge.
SEC. 7. Enforcing writ or order of di1cbarge, penalty, &:c. 
fie. Oflicen not liable for obeying writ or order of clilelwge. .
SEC. 9. Party di1charged when not to be i.impri1oned; when he may be.
SEC. 0. Penalty for recommitting. a.oept u herein allowed. 
SEC. 1. Peaalty for concealing priaoner, &:c. to uoid wriL 
SEC. 2. Penalty for concealing pri1011er, &:c. after writ allowed.
8l. Penalty ca penou aid.Jag in riolating two Jut 1eetiou. 
~- Limitation of paDlaluoenta for certain mildemeuon.
SEC. 5. When wun.nt may ilne to tab party illegally confined.
SEC. 8. When to take penon eodning ldm.
fTI. Wanut bow exeeated; preceeclmp tbereao. 
SEC. 8. Proceedinp agaimt penoa detaining prisoner. 
m. Certiorari toremon proceedinp; how allowed; ita eKect.
SEC. 0. Writ or error apon deciaion of 1apreme court.
SEC. 1. Powen of the court or enon thereon. 
SEC. 2. Penalty lor nf'uing copy of proeeu to pruoner. 
SEC. 3. Powen of coutl, ltc. at common la..,, abrogated. &:c. 
SEC. 1. Every person committed, detained, confined, or restrained
his bl>erty, within this state, for any criminal or supposed criminal 
matter, or under any pretence· whatsoever, except in the cases in the 
next section specified, may prosecute a writ of iabeaa corpw, or 
eertiorari, according to the provisions of this Article, to inquire into
the cause of such imprisonment or restraint. 
2 
SEC. 2. The following persons shall not be entitled fo prosecute such 
~: 
1. Penona committed or detained by virtue of any process issued 
, • • 
by any court of the United States, or any Judge thereof, in cases where
such courts or judges have exclusive jurisdiction under the laws
the United States, or shall~ave acquired exclusivejuriadiction by the 
commencement of suits in such courts : 
2. Persons committed or detained by virtue of the final judgment 
or decree of any competent tribunal of civil or criminal jurisdiction,
or by virtue of any execution issued upon such judgment or decree 
~ut no order of commitment for any alleged contempt, or upon pro-
ceedings as for contempt, to enforce the rights or remedies of any par- 
ty, shall be deemed a judgment or decree within the meaning of this
section ; nor shall any attachment or other · process issued upon any 
such order, be deemed an execution within the meaning of this sec-
tion. 
~ 2s; Application for such writ, shall be made by petition, signed
either by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by some person 
in his behalf as follows : 
1. To the supreme court, during its sitting: or, 
2. During any tenn or vacation of the supreme court, to the chan­ 
cellor, or any one of the justices of the supreme court, or any ofl;icer
who may be authorised to . perform the duties of a justice of the su- 
preme court at chambers, being or residing within the county where 
the prisoner is detained; or if there be no such officer within such
county, or if he be absent, or for any cause be incapable of acting, or
have refused to grant such writ, then to some officer having such au­ 
thority, residing in any adjoining county. 
SEC. 4. Whenever application for any such writ, shall be made to
any officer not residing within the county where the prisoner shall be 
detained, he shall require proof by the oath of the party applying, or 
by other sufficient evidence, that there is no officer in such county au­
thorised to grant the writ, or if there be one, that he is absent, or has 
refused to grant such writ, or for some cause to be specially set forth, 
is incapable _of acting; and if such proof be not produced, the applica­ 
tion shall be denied. 
SEC. 5. The petition must state in substance, 
1. That the nerson in whose behalf the writ is applied for, is im- 
1·- 
prisoned or restrained in his liberty ; .t.he.'°fficer o_r_ person by whom
he is so confiEed or restrained, and the place where ; naminglx,th 
parties, if their names are known, or describing them, if they are not: 
2. That such person is not committed or detained by virtue of any 
process, judgment, decree or execution, specified in the preceding
twenty-second section : 
a. The cause or pretence of such confinement or restraint, accord· 
ing to the best of the knowledge and belief of the party: 
4. If the confinement or restraint is by virtue of any warrant, order
or process, a copy thereof must be annexed; or it must be averred,
that by reason of such prisoner's being removed or concealed before 
the application, a demand of such copy could not be made; or that 
such demand was made, and the legal fees therefor tendered to the of·
ficer or person havi~g such prisoner in his custody, and that such copf 
was refused : · · 
6. H the imprisonment be alleged to be illegal, the petition mu.st 
also state in what the alleged illegality consists : 
6. It mu_st specify whether the party applies for the writ of 1,ab«u 
Corpu8, or for the writ of certiorari: , 
., . It must be verified by the oath of the party making the applica­ 
tion. 
SEC. 6. Any court or officer empowered to grant any writ applied 
for under this Article, to whom such petition shall be presented, shaJI
grant such writ without delay ; unless it shall appear from the peti­ 
tion itself, or from the documents annexed, that the party applying 
therefor, is, by the provisions of this Article, prohibited from prose­ 
cuting such writ.
SEC. 7. Every writ of habeas corpus, issued under the provisions 
of this Article, shall be substantially in the following form: , 
"The People of the State of New-Y ork: To the Sherill' of, &c. ~-:. 
'to A. B.'] ·~ 
We command you, that you have the body of C. D., by you im,eri­
eoned and detained, as it is said, together with the time and cause of 
such impnsonment and detention, by whatsoever name the said C! D. 
shall be called or charged, before our justices of our supreme court,
&c. - [ or 'before E. F. circuit judge, &c.' as the case may be.] at, &c. 
on, &c. [ or 'immediately after the receipt of this writ,'] to do and re­
ceive, what shall then and there be considered, concerning the said 
C. D. And have you then there this writ.
Witness, &c." 
SEC. 8. Every writ of certiorari, issued pursuant to this Article,
shall be substantially in the following form : 
"The People of the State of New-York: To the Sh~riff of, &c. [or
'to A. B.'] 
We command you, that you certify fully and at large, to our justi­
ces of our supreme court, [ or ' to E. F. circuit judge, &c. as the case 
may be.] at, &c. on, &c. [ or 'immediately after the receipt of this
writ,'] the day and cause of the imprisonment of C. D., by you de­
tained, as is said, by whatsoever name the said C. D. shall be called
or charged. And have you then there this writ. 
Witness, &c."
SEC. 9. Such writs of hab«u corpus or certiorari, shall not be dis- 
obeyed for any defect of form. They shall be sufficient, 
1. If the person having the custody of the prisoner, be designated
either by his name of office, if he have any ; or by his own name ; or 
if both such names be unknown or uncertain, he may be described by
an assumed appellation ; and any one who may be served with the 
writ shall be deemed the per~n to whom it is directed, although it
may be directed to him by a wrong name Qr description, or to another 
person: 
2. If the person who is directed to be produced, be designated by
name ; or if his name be uncertain or unknown, he may be described
in any other way, so as to designate the personintended. ' 
, SO. Whenever the supreme court, or any justice thereof, or any
circuit judge, shall have evidence from any judicial proceeding had 
before them, that any person within the county in which such court
or officer shall be, is illegally confined and restrained in his liberty, it
shall be the duty of such court or officer, to issue a writ of habeas 
corpus or certiorari, for his relief, although no petition be presented
or application made for such writ. 
, SI. If any court or officer, authorised by the provisions of this 
Article, to grant writs of habeas corptu1 or certiorari, shall refuse to 
grant such . writ when legally applied for, every member of such
court, who shall have assented to such refusal, and every such of- 
~ S!. The person upon whom any such writ shall have been duly 
• • · • • 
served, shall state in his return, plainly and unequivocally, 
r. Whether he have, or have not, the party in his custody, or un-
der his power or restraint : 
SEC. 2. If he hare the party in his custody or power, or under his re­
straint, the authority and true cause of such imprisonment or restraint, 
Betting forth the same at large : 
3. If the party be detained by virtue of any writ, warrant, or other
written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the return; and
the original shall be produced and exhibited on the return of the writ, 
to the court or officer before whom the same is retumable :
,. If the person upon whom such writ shall have been served, 
shall have had the party in his power or custody, or under his re­ 
straint, at any time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ, but
has transfened such custody or restraint to another ; the return shall 
state, particularly, to whom, at what time, for what cause, and by
what authority, such transfer took place : 
The return must be signed by the person making the same ; and 
except where such person shall be a sworn public officer, and ahall 
make his return in his official capacity, it shall be verified by his
oath." 
~ SS. If a writ of Aob«J8 corpv, be issued, the person or offi.r.er
on whom it shall have been served, shall also bring the body of the 
person in his custody, according' to the command of such writ; el·
cept in the case of the sickness of such · person, as herein after pro­ 
vided.
SEC. 4. If the person upon whom such writ of habeas corpu,orClf· 
tiorari shall have been duly served, shall refuse or neglect to y 
the same, by producing the party named in such writ of Jw,bt,QI Cflf· 
pus, and making a full and explicit return to every such writ of Ao· 
beas corpus or certiorari, within the time required by the provisions
of the third Article of this Title, and no sufficient excuse shall be
shown for such refusal or neglect; it shall be the duty of the court or 
officer before whom such writ shall have been made returnable, uPon
due proof of the service thereof, forthwith to issue an attachme~t
against such person, directed to the sheriff of any county within thJS 
state, and commanding him forthwith to apprehend such person, and 
to bring him immediately before such court or officer ; and on so~ 
person's being so brought, he shall be committed to close custody! an 
the jail of the county in which such court or officer shall be, With-, 
out being allowed the liberties thereof, until he shall make return to
such writ, and comply with any order that may be made by sacb 
obe 
I 
court or officer, in relation to~ the person for whose relief sue
shall have been issued. 
6 
l · 
SEC. 5. If a sheriff of any co nty shall have neglected to return such
writ, the attachment may be directed to any coroner or other person, 
to be designated therein, who shall have full power to execute the
same ; and such sheriff, upon being brought up, may be committed to 
the jail of any county other than his own.
SEC. 6. The court or officer by whom any such attachment may be 
. • ds . 
JBSUed, may also, at the same time or afterwar , issue a precept to 
the same sheriff, or other person to whom such attachment shall have
been directed, commanding him to bring forthwith before such court 
or officer, the party for whose benefit such writ of Aabeaa corpua or 
cmiorari shall have been allowed ; who shall thereafter remain in
the custody of such sheriff or person, until he shall be discharged,
bailed or remanded, u such court or officer shall direct. 
6 
SEC. 7. In the execution of such attachment or precept, or of either 
• • 
of them, the sheri1f or other person to whom they shall be directed, 
may call to his aid the power of the county, as in other cues.'
~ SS. The court or officer before whom the party shall be brought 
on such writ of habeas corpus, shall, immediately after the return
· thereof, proceed. to examine into the facts contained in such return, 
and into the cause of the confinement or restraint of such party, wheth­
er the same shall have been upon commitment for any criminal, or
supposed criminal, matter, or not. 
8 
SEC. 9. If no legal cause be shown for such imprisonment or re- Whenbcprdi~n·
er 
straint, or for the continuation thereof, such court or officer shall dis- c:harrod
charge such party from the custody or restraint under which he is
held.' 
SEC. 0. It shall be the duty of such court or officer, forthwith to re- When 
mand such party, if it shall appear that he is detained in custody, remanded, 
either, 
1. By virtue of process issued by any court or judge of the United
States, in a case where such court 'or judge has exclusive jurisdictions 
or, 
1. By virtue of the final judgment or decree of any competent
court of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or of any execution issued upon
such judgment or decree: or, 
. a. For any contempt specially and plainly charged in the commit­
tnent, by some court, officer or body, having authority to commit for 
the contempt so charged : and, 
4. That the time during which such party may be legally detain­ 
ed, has not expired." 
SEC. 1. I it app ar n the return, that the prisoner is in custody by
virtue f ivil proce fr m anycourt legally constituted, or issued by 
any officer in the our f J. u · cial proceedings before him, authoris- 
ed by law, such prisoner can only be discharged, in one of the fol-
lowing cases: 
1. Where the jurisdiction of such court or officer has been ex­
ceeded, either BS to matter, place, sum or person : 
1. Where, though the original imprisonment was lawful, yet by
some act, omission or event, which has taken place afterwards, the 
party has become entitled to be discharged : 
s. Where the process is defective, in some matter of substance re­
quired by law, rendering such process void : 
4. Where the process, though in proper form, has been issued in a
case not allowed by law : 
s. Where the person having the custody of the prisoner under such
process, is not the person empowered by law to detain him : or, 
6. Where the process is not authorised by any judgment, order or
decree of any court, nor by any provision of law. 
SEC. 2. But no court or officer, on the return of any habeas corpw 
• • • d d th. A ti I h II h . .
or certwran, issue un er IS r JC e, s a ave power to mqwre 
into the legality or justice of any process, judgment, decree or execu-
tion, specified in the preceding twenty-second section; nor into the 
justice or propriety of any commitment for a contempt made by any
court, officer or body, according to law, and charged in such commit­
ment, as herein before provided. 
~ 4S. If it appear that the party has been legally committed for any
criminal offence, or if he appear by the testimony offered with the re- 
turn, or upon the hearing thereof, to be guilty of such an offence, al­
though the commitment be irregular, the court or officer before whom
such party shall be brought, shall proceed to let such party to bail, if
the case be bailable, and good bail be offered ; or if not, shall forth­
with remand such party.8 
SEC. 4. If the party be not entitled to his discharge, and be not bail­
ed, the court or officer shall remand him to the custody, or place him 
under the restraint, from which he was taken, if the person under
whose custody or restraint he was, be legally entitled thereto ; if no_t
so entitled, he shall be committed by such court or officer, to the cus­
tody of such officer or person, BS by law is entitled thereto. 
SEC. 5. Until judgment be given upon the return, the court or officer
before whom such party shall be brought, may either commit such 
party to the custody of the sheriff of the county in which such court
or officer shall be, or place him in such care or under such custody,
as his age and other circumstances may require. 
' 
SEC. 6. When it appears, from the return to any such writ, that tfit 
party named therein is in custody on any process, under which any~
other person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment or re- 
straint, no order shall be made fer his discharge, until it shall appear
that the party so interested, or his attorney, if he have one, shall have 
had the like notice of the time and place at which such writ shall have 
been made returnable, as is required to be given of special motions,
in the supreme court of this state. 
SEC. 7. When it shall appear, from ihe return, that such party is de-
tain ed . • I . h ffi h 11 mak 
upon any cnmma accusation, sue court or o cer s a e
no order for the discharge of such party, until sufficient notice of the 
time and place at which such writ shall have been returned, or shall 
be made returnable, shall be given to the district attorney of the coun­ 
ty, within which such court or officer shall be. 
i ffl. The party brought before any such court or officer, on the 
return of any writ of habeas corpua, may deny any of the material 
facts set forth in the return, or allege any fact, to show either that his
imprisonment or detention is unlawful, or that he is entitled to his 
discharge; which allegations or denials shall be on oath; and there-
upon such court or officer shall proceed, in a summary way, to hear 
such allegations and proofs, as may be produced in support of such im­
prisonment or detention, or against the same, and to dispose of such
party as the justice of the case may require, 
SEC. 9. Whenever, from the sickness or infirmity of the person di-
rected to be produced by any writ of habeaa corpus, such person 
can not, without danger, be broughtbefore the court or officer before
whom the writ is madereturnable, the party in whose custody he is, 
may state that fact in his return to the writ, verifying the same by hiei 
oath ; and if such court or officer be satisfied of the truth of such alle-
gation, and the return be otherwise sufficient, they shall proceed to
decide upon such return, and to dispose of the matter, in the same 
manner as if a writ of certiorari had been issued, instead of such 
writ of habeall ccwpus. 
SEC. 0. Whenever an application shall be made for a writ of habeall
corpus, according to the provisions of this Title, to any officer or 
court, if it appear to such court or officer, upon the facts set forth in
the petition, that the cause, matter or offence, for which the person is 
confined or detained, is not bailable, according to the provisions of law,
instead of awarding such writ of habeall corpus, a writ of certiorari 
may be granted,-.directed to the officer or person in whose custody, or
under whose control, such prisoner shall be· alleged to be, in like
manner as if such writ of certiorari bad been applied for by the pri- 
soner.
SEC. 1. Upon the return to such certiorari being made, the court or 
officer before whom such writ shall be returnable, shall proceed in 
the satne manner as upon returns to 1'rita of Wea, elt'J*I,· and 
shall hear the proofs of the parties in support of and against such re­
turn. 
SEC. 2. If it appear that the person detained is illegaDy 'impriloned, 
confined or restrained of his liberty, the court or officer shall gtant a 
writ of discharge, commanding those having such pel'80D in theit cnt­ 
tody, to discharge him forthwith; and if it appear that BUCh penoa ia 
legally detained, imprisoned or confined, and is liot entitmd to he bail­
ed, such court or officer shllll cease from all further proceectings-thert­ 
on. 
~ 5S. Notwithstanding any writ of cerfforori may have bee~ i•
sued or returned, according to the begotng provisions,· the court <r 
officer before whom the same wu · returnable, may· UIIU6 a writ of 
habea, COf'J'U8, which shall, in all respects, be su~t to 1he pro» 
aions herein before contained ; and if. such court or oticer ni1lle a 
writ of certiorari, or upon the return thereof, refuse to .discharge the
person detained, if such person claim the writ of AabNI COf'.Pl'I, he 
shall be entitled to the same as herein before proTided. 
SEC. 4. If, upon the return to any writ of cmiorari, it shall appear
that the person detained is entitled to bail, the court or officer hem 
whom the same was returnable, shall, by order certified by the dert
of the court, or by the officer granting the same, direct the sum in 
which such person shall be held to bail, and the court at which he 
shall be required to appear ; and that on such bail. being eQtered into,
in conformity to such order and tbe provisions of law, such prisoner 
be discharged. · 
SEC. 5. Upon the production of such order to any judge.of~ com:
ty courts of 'any county, he shall be authorised to take the recogni­ 
zance of the person so detained, and of two sufficient sureties, in the
sum so directed, with a condition for the appearance of such penon
at the court designated in such order. But previous to taking sudi
recognizance, such judge shall be satisfied, by the oath of the peTIODS 
offering themselves as sureties, that they are householders in the roon­ 
ty, and are severally worth double the sum in which they shall be~ 
quired to be bound, over and above all demands against them. 
SEC. 6. Such judge shall file the recognizance taken by him with 
the clerk of the court before which the prisoner shall be bound to ap-
pear, and shall certify on such order, the compliance therewith. The
production of such order, so certified, shall entitle such prisoner to be 
discharged from imprisonment, for the cause which shall _have been 
returned to such certiorari. 
SEC. 7. Obedience to any writ of discharge, or to any order for ~
discharge of any prisoner, granted pursuant to the provisions of.this
Article, may be enforced by the court or officer issuing such writ °! 
granting such order, by attachment, in the same manner as bereID 
provided for a neglect to make a return to a writ of Aabeaa corpus, 
aad with the like effect, in all respects; and the person guilty of such
disobedience, shall forfeit to the party aggrieved one thousand two 
hllDdW:MI and fifty dollars, in addition to any special damages such par-
ty may have sustained. 
SEC. 8. No ·sheriff" or other officer, shall be liable to any civil action 
11- obe • . uch • rd f d" bar nd if • 
lUI' ymg any s writ or o er o , l8C ge ; a any action
aball be·brought against such officer, for suffering any person commit-
ted to his custody, to go at large, pursuant to any such writ or order, 
be may plead, or with his plea of the general issue, may give notice 
of the same, in bar of such action. 
SEC. 9. No person who has been discharged by the order of any
flicer 
I. -L • • ed 
court or o , upon a 11,UUetJII corpus or certtarari, JSSU pursuant 
to the provisions of this Article, shall be again imprisoned, restrained
or kept in custody, for the same cause; but it shall not be deemed the 
IIJlle cauae, 
J·. If he shall have been discharged &om a commitment on a eri- 
minal charge, and be afterwards committed for the same offence, by 
. the legal order or process of the court wherein he shall be bound by 
recognizance to appear, or in which he shall be indicted or convicted
for the same offence : or, · 
t. If, after a discharge. for defect of proof, or for any material de-
feet in tile commitment, in a criminal case, the prisoner be again ar- 
l'elted on sufficient proof, and committed by legal process for the same 
otrence: or, . · 
a. If, in a civil suit, the party has been discharged for any ille- 
gal
• • th • ,f.......,. h • bef ified d • af. 
1ty m e JU""6s,uent o.r process, erem ,ore speer , an 18 -
terwards imprisoned by legal process for the same cause of action :
or, 
,. If, in any civil suit, he shall have been discharged from commit- 
, 
ment on mune process, and shall be afterwards committed on execu-
tion, in the same cause, or on mema process, in any other cause,
after such first suit shall have been discontinued. 
9 
SEC. 0. If any peraon, either solely, or as a member of any court; 
• the • f rd • dgme shall kn 
or m execution o any o er, JU nt or process ; . OW· 
ingly re-commit, impr~n or restrain of his liberty, or cause to be re­
committed, Imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, for the same cause, 
except as provided in the last section, any person so discharged, or
shall knowingly aid or assist therein, he shall forfeit to the party ag­
grieved, one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, and shall also be 
deemed guilty of a msidemeanor.
~ 61 -. Any one having in his custody or under his power, any per- 
IQll, who, by the provisions of this Article, would be entitled to a 
writ of Aabea, corpu, or certiorari to inquire into the cause of Jiis 
detention, who shall, with intent to elude the service of any s11ch 
writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, transfer any such prisoner to the
custody, or place him under the power or control of another, or con­
ceal him, or change the place of his confinement, shall be deemed guil­ 
ty of a misdemeanor.'? 
SEC. 2. Any one having in his custody or under his power, any per· 
son for whose relief a writ of habea, corpus or certiorari shall have
been duly issued, pursuant to the provisions of this Article, who, 
with intent to elude the service of such writ, or to avoid the effect
thereof, shall transfer such prisoner to the custody, or place him un­
der the power or control of another, or_conceal him, or change the
place of his confinement, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor," 
SEC. 8. Every person who shall knowingly aid or assist, in the vio­
lation of either of the two last preceding sections, shall be deemed 
guilty of a misdemeanor.!" • 
SEC. 4. Every person convicted of any offence under either of the
four last sections, shall be punished by fine or imprisonment, or both, in
the discretion of the'court in which he shall be convicted; but such
fine shall not exceed one thousand dollars, nor such imprisonment ail 
months. 
SEC. 5. Whenever it shall appear by satisfactory proof, that any one
is held in illegal confinement or custody, and that there is good rea-
son to believe that he will be carried out of the state, or suffer some
irreparable injury, before he can be relieved by the issuing of a la. 
beaa corpua or certiorari, any court or officer authorised to issue
such writs, may issue a warrant under his hand and seal, reciting the
facts, and directed to any sheriff, constable or other person, and com-
manding such officer or person to take such prisoner, and forthwith to 
bring him before such court or officer, to be dealt with according to
law. 
SEC. 6. When the proof mentioned in the last section, shall also be
sufficient to justify an arrest of the person having such prisoner in his
custody, as for a criminal offence committed in the taking or detain· 
ing of such prisoner, the warrant shall also contain an order tor the
arrest of such person, for such offence • 
SEC. 7. Any officer or person to whom such warrant shall be direct·
ed, shall execute the' same, by bringing the prisoner therein named, 
and the person who detains him, if so commanded by the warrant, be­
fore the court or officer issuing the same ; and thereupon the person
detaining such prisonor shall make a return, in like manner, and the
like proceedings shall be had, as if a writ of habeas cmpus had been
issued in the first instance. 
SEC. 8. If the person having such prisoner in his custody, shall be
brought before such court or officer, as for a criminal offence, he shall 
be examined, committed, bailed or discharged, by such court or offi-
eer, in like manner as in other criminal cases of the like nature. 
~ 69 -. All proceedings commenced under this Article, before any
fli
be
ed b 
• . . th 1,...,. 
O cer, may remov y certwran into e supreme court, to ~ 
there examined and corrected ; but no such certiorari shall be is-
sued, unless the same be allowed by a justice of the supreme court or
a circuit judge, nor until a final adjudication shall have been made by
such officer, upon the claim to be discharged or bailed. 
SEC. 0. ·After the supreme court shall have made a final determina-
tion upon any writ of habeas corpus or certiorari issued for the re-
lief of any prisoner, such prisoner, if his discharge be refused, may 
prosecute his 'Writ of error;thereupon, to the court for the correction
of errors; If such prisoner shall have been discharged, the attorney­
general, if the commitment was upon some criminal accusation, and 
the party aggrieved, if such prisoner was detained in any civil suit,
may in like manner prosecute their writ of error to the said court. 
SEC. 1. The court for the correction of errors, when any such writ 
r
-0 error shall be brought, shall have power to make such orders, and
to issue all such writs, as may be necessary, for the discharge or re­
commitment of such prisoner, according· to the judgment which shall 
be given by such court ; and, generally, to carry such judgment into 
full etfecL
SEC. 2. Any officer or other person refusing to deliver a copy of any 
, • • 
order, warrant, process or other authority, by which he shall de tam-.
any person, to any one who shall demand such copy, and tender the
fees thereof, shall forfeit two hundred dollars to the person so detain- 
ed. 
SEC. 3. The.provisions of the common law in regard to the writ ofeommoa.Jaw 
Aabeaa corpus treated of in this Article, are hereby abrogated, ex-
cept so much and such parts thereof as may be necessary to carry into 
full effect the provisions herein contained ; and the authority of courts
411d officers to award such writ, or to proceed thereon, by the common
law, shall be exercised in conformity to the provisions of this Article, 
in all cases therein provided for. 
A.BTIOLE TBJB.D. 
General ProoiaionB. 
SEC. 4. Writs of babeu corpu, &c. UDder what seal to iaaae. 
SEC. 5. How to be made returnable.
SEC. 6. Allowance to be endoned; bow signed.
SEC. 7. Babeu corpu. in bebalC of the people.
SEC. 8. Babeu corpu. bow aened; when fees and bond required. 
SEC. 9. Lut NCtion not to apply to writa by attomey-generaJ, &c.
SEC. 0. Mode of aening writ of babeu corpu.. 
SEC. 1. How ae"ed'WheD person conceals himself, &c.
SEC. 8. Daty of ofticen ud penou on whom writ ia acned.
SEC. 4. When ud how fees allowed to penona not ofticen.
SEC. 5. Fiae allowed for making return to writ, 
86, Thia Title to apply to all write of babeu co,pu, 
SEC. 4. All Wl'its of Wea COt"ptU, certiorari or discharge, iasued 
pursuant to the pro'rilions of this Title, shall be under the seal of, the .
court by. which they are awarded. If awarded by any officer out of 
court, they ahall be under the seal of the court before which the writ 
is made returnable; or if it be made returnable before some body
other than a court of record, o! before an officer out of court, it shall 
be under the seal of the supreme court •
SEC. 5. Every such writ may be made returnable 'at a day certain, 
or forthwi~ as the case may require. 
SEC. 6. Every such writ shall be endorsed with a certificate that the
same has been allowed, and with the date of such allowance ; which
endorsement, if the writ be awarded by a court, shall be signed by the
chief justice or other presiding officer of such court: if it be awarded 
by any officer out of court, the endorsement shall be signed by such
officer. 
SEC. 7. Whenever a writ of Aabeaa corpu shall be required in any
~~=.action or matter, civil or criminal, to which the people of this state 
ahall be parties, the application therefor may be made by the attqmey·
general, or district attorney having charge of such action or matter;
and whenever so issued, the court or officer allowing it, shall state 
in their endoreement of the allowance of such writ that it was .iswed
upon such application. 
SEC. 8. Writs of AabM8 Cot'])t,&4 can only be served by an elector of 
some county within this state ; and the service thereof shall not be
deemed complete, unless the party serving the same shall tender to 
the person in whose custody the prisoner may be, if such person be a
Meriff, coroner, constable or marshal, the fees allowed by law for
bringing up such prisoner ; nor unlesa he shall also give bond to such
sheriff, coroner, constable or·marshal, as the case may be, in a penalty 
double the amount of the sum for which such prisoner ·Jhay be detaur
ed, if he be detained for any specific sum of money, and if not, then in
the penalty oC one thousand dollars, conditioned that such person will
pay the charges of carrying back such prisoner, if he shall be remand·
ed, and that such prisoner will not escape by the way, either in going
to, or returning from, the place to which he is to be taken. 
SEC. 9. But the last section shall not apply to any case. where the 
writ is sued out by the attorney-general, or by any district attorney. 
SEC. 0. Every writ ef 1aabeaa corpua, or certiorari, issued pursuant
to this Title, may be served by delivering the same to the person to 
whom it is directed ; if he can not be found, it may be served by be­ 
ing left at the jail or other place in which the prisoner may be confin· 
ed, with any under officer, or other person of proper age, having charge
for the time, of such prisoner. 
, - ---- - - • ., • ·o ·- --- · - wn. 
same, it may be served by affixing the same in some conspicuous place,
on the outside, either of his dwelling-house, or of the place where the 
party is confined. · 
~ 8!. It shall be the duty of every sheri«, coroner, constable or
marshal, upon whom a writ of Aab«Ja corpu, shall be served, wheth- 
er such writ be directed to him or not, upo11 payment or tender of the 
charges allowed by law, and the delivery or tender of the bond here- 
in prescribed, to obey and return such writ acconling to theexigency 
thereof: and it shall be the duty of every other person upon whom
such writ shall be served, having the custody of the individual for
whoee benefit the writ shall be issued, to obey and execute such writ, 
according to the command thereof, without requiring any bond or the 
payment of any charges, unless the payment of such charges, shall
have been required by the officer issuing such wriL 
SEC. 8. It shall, in like manner, be the duty of the person upon whom
any writ of certiorari, issued pursuant to the provisions of this Arti- 
cle, ahall be served, upon payment or tender of the fees a~owed by
law for making a return to such writ, and for copying the warrant or
other process to be annexed thereto, to obey and return the same ac- 
cording to the exigency thereof.
SEC. 4. Every officer allowing a writ of habea, corpu,, directed to 
any other than a sheriff, coroner, CODStable or marshal, may, in his
diacretion, require as a duty to be performed, in order to render the 
service thereof effectual, that the charges of bringing up such prisoner,
shall be paid by the petitioner ; and in such case, he shall, in the al- 
lowance of the writ, specify the amount of such charges, so to be paid,
which shall not exceed the fees allowed by law to aherifli, for similar·
aemcee •. 
SEC. 5. If the writ be returnable at a certain day, such return shall
be made, and such prisoner shall be produced, at the time and place 
specified therein ; if it be returnable forthwith, and the place be with· 
in twenty miles of the place of service, such return shall be made,
and such prisoner shall be produced, within · twenty-four hours ; and
the like time shall be allowed for every additional twenty miles. 
SEC. 6. The several provisions contained in this Title, shall be con- 
&trued to apply, so far as they may be applicable, and except where
otherwise provided, to every writ of Aabeaa corpu, authorised to be
iaued by any statute of this state. . 
ARTICLE FIBST. 
OJ Scire Faciaa. 
SEC. 1. Seire faciu whore eseeution bu not been illUed. 
a Other cuea enamerated; limitation iD cenain cue..
8. Time when they mut be brought iD certain c:uea.
4. Scire f'aciu against ter-tenanta.
5. Rigbta of penou not awle partiea, not afl'ectecl. 
6. Pleu in abatement to .JVrita again,t ter-tenanta.
7. Alao, to writa agaiut hein and deriteea. 
8. Coatributioa1 not al'ected by omiNion to plead, ltc.
9. Pleu in bu to writa affecting real estate. 
SEC. 0. J wlgm.ent upon neh pleu being eltabliahed. 
SEC. 1. Real eatate Dot ducribecl in writ, ltc. not affected.
SEC. 2. Cuu in which to ilne, to annul letten patent.
JS. When, to ,-ate acta of incorporation. 
SEC. 4. Content. of writ; judgment thereon, 
SEC. 6. General provuion concerning i11uinJ, telte and retum.
SEC. 6. Writ to be 1ened notwithltanding d.inetiom. 
17, Mode of 1erving writa, 
TITLE II. 
OF PROCEEDINGS BY SCIRE FACIAS, BY INFORMATION IN CERTAIN
CASES, MANDAMUS, PROIDBITION, AND AD QUOD DAMNUM. 
SEC. 1. 
ART. !.-Of informations io the nature of a quo wananto, aod io certain o&ber cam. 
ART, S.-Qf writs of mandamus and prohibition. 
ART. 4.-0C the writ of ad quod damnum. 
SEC. 8. Appearance of defendant.; rale to plead. 
SEC. 0. Mode of ,erring upon ab1ent original defendant. 
m. When Ilia defalllt may be entered; judgment thereon. 
SEC. 1. I>eclantion unnece11ary; defendant to plead to writ. 
SEC. 8. Proeeedinp not to be bad until writ sened, ltc.
U Copie1 of certain judgmenl4 to be filed with secretary of etate. 
SEC. 5. Entry of judplent vacating letters patent, ltc.
SEC. 8. Notice of judgment ncating act, of incorporation.
SEC. 7. Powen of clwacery oo 1ueh judgment being renclend, ltc. 
SEC. 1. Whenever an execution shall not have been issued within the
time allowed by law, .after the filing of the record of any judgment or
recovery, in any court of record within this state, the plaintiff in such
judgment may sue out a writ of acire Jada.a, to be issued out of the
same court ; by which the sheriff shall be commanded to summon the
party against whom it is issued, to appear before such court at a cer­
tain day, to show if he have any thing to say, why such plaintiff' ought
not to have execution of such judgment ; and if, after being duly sum­ 
moned, he do not come at the day, or do come and say nothing why
execution ought not to be had, an execution shall thereupon issue, ae­ 
cording to the force, form and effect of the said recovery •11 
SEC. 2. Writs of acire Jaci<u shall also be issued in the cases not
otherwise provided by law, to revive a judgment against the personal 
representatives of any deceased defendant ; or in favor of the person­
al representatives of any deceased plaintiff; or where the situation of 
either party is changed by marriage; or to continue a suit by or against
the representatives of either party, who shall have died in the pro- 
gress thereof. But such writs, against personal representatives of 
any party, shall be issued within one year after the cause for issuing
the same shall arise. 
~ S. Writs of acire faciaa, to revive any judgment or recovery,
which shall have been docketed when this Title takes effect, must be 
brought within ten years thereafter ; and such writs, when brought to
revive any such judgment or recovery docketed after this Title takes 
effect, shall be brought within ten years after the time of the docket- 
ing thereof:
SEC. 4. writs of ,eve I acia.8, to revive a judgment or recovery against 
tenants of any real estate, may be brought against the persons by whom
such estate shall be actually occupied, claiming any interest therein, 
whether in fee, for life, or for years. · 
SEC. 5. But where any judgment or recovery shall be revived as
' al b ' f • I'. • th 'gh f 
agamst any re estate, · y writ o sci.re J acias, e r1 t o any per-
son therein, not made a party to such writ, shall not be impaired or 
affected by such revival, unless he claim title from the tenant of such
real estate, who was duly made a party thereto. 
SEC. 6. Whenever a 1cire f aciaa shall be brought against the tenants
of any real estate, other than heirs or devisees, to charge such .real 
estate with any judgment or recovery sought to be revived, such te-
nants, or any of them, may plead, in abatement, 
1. That the heirs or devisees of the party against whom such judg­
ment or recovery was had, or any of them, have not been summoned: 
or, 
2. That there are other persons who are joint tenants or tenants in
common with those so pleading; of the same lands, in respect to which 
they have been summoned : or,
a. That there are other tenants of other lands in the same county, 
which, if the lands of the defendants be chargeable with the judgment
sought to be revived, are equally chargeable therewith, specifying the
names of such parties, and the lands held by them : 
And thereupon, if any such plea be admitted or established, the
proceedings against those 80 pleading shall be suspended, until the 
plaintiff' in the action shall have summoned the parties named in such
plea ; but no second or further plea of the like nature shall be allowed 
in any such action. 
SEC. 1. In proceedings by ,cire f aci,a,a against heirs or de vi sees, to
enforce any liability arising from their being tenants of or claiming 
any real estate, the defendants, or any of them, may .plead, in abate-
Jbent, that there are other heirs or devisees who ought to be charged, 
who have not been summoned ; and thereupon, if such plea be admit .. 
ted or established, the proceedings against those 80 pleading shall be
suspended, until the plaintiff in the action shall have summoned the 
parties named in such plea ; but no second or further plea of the like
nature shall be allowed in any such action. 
SEC. 8. No person against whom any recovery shall be had upon any
writ of scire f aciaa, shall, by reason of any omission to plead either 
of the pleas herein before specified, or of any thing herein contained, be
precluded from his remedies for contribution, against other persons
bound to contribute to the satisfadion of the judgment or recovery re­ 
vived by such scirefaciaa, and not made a party thereto. 
~ 9 .. Any defendant in 8 Writ of Scire facias, brought to revive a
judgment against · real estate, shall hereafter be allowed to plead, in 
h 
bar of sue writ, 
J. That lie is not tenant, and does not hold any of the lands in re­ 
spect to which he shall have been summoned: or, 
2. That he is not tenant of any particular part or parcel of such
lands: or, 
3. That he holds in severalty, any such lands, in respect to which
he shall have been summonedas joint tenant or tenant in common; 
and hereafter no such pleas shall be allowed in abatement of such
writ; nor shall any plea of sole tenancy be allowed. 
SEC. 0. If any such plea be admitted or established, judgment shall 
be as follows : 
r. Where the defendant does not hold any part of the lands in re­
pect to which he shall have been summoned, judgment shall be ren­
dered in favor of such defendant : 
2. Where the defendant holds only a part of such lands, the plain­ 
tiff shall have judgment only as to the part so held ; and if the cause
be tried by a jury, they shall specify such part in their verdict, as in 
the action of ejectment : 
a. If any such plea of several tenancy be admitted or established,
the plaintiff shall have judgment according to the title of the defendant;
and if the cause be tried by a jury, they shall in like manner specify
the same in their verdict. 
SEC. 1. No scire Jaciaa, to revive any judgment against heirs, de­
visees or ler-tenants, shall be valid as to any other real estate than such 
as shall be described in tho writ, or in the return thereto; and such
real estate shall be described in the execution awarded upon ~y judg­ 
ment rendered on such writ. 
SEC. 2. A writ of scirefaciaa may also be issued out of the supreme
court of this state, in behalf of the people of this state, upon the relation 
of the attorney-general, or of any private person, for the purpose of va­ 
eating and annulling any letters patent granted by the people of this 
state, in the following cases : 
1. Where it shall be alleged that such letters patent were obtained
by means of some fraudulent suggestion or concealment, of a mate- 
rial fact, made by the person to whom the same were issued, or made
with his consent or knowledge: 
2. Where it shall be alleged that such letters patent were issued 
through mistake, and in ignorance of some material fact: 
a. Where the patentee, or those lawfully claiming under him, shall
have done or omitted any act, in violation of the terms and conditions
upon which such letters patent were granted ; or shall, by any other 
means, have forfeited the interest acquired under the same.
~ IS. A writ of Bcire facialJ,may nlso be issued out of the same 
court, upon the relation of the attorney-general, against any corpora-
tion created or renewed by any act of the legislature, for the purpose
of vacating and annulling such act, on the ground that the same was 
passed upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment, of a mate-
rial fact, made by the persons incorporated by such act, or made with
their consent or knowledge. But no· such writ shall be issued, ex- 
cept where the legislature shall specially direct the attorney-general
lo prosecute the same. _ 
SEC. 4. In every writ of scire facias issued under either of the two
last preceding sections, the particular matters and circumstances upon 
which the same' are founded, shall be set forth with such convenient
certainty, that the defendants may be fully apprized of the general na- 
ture thereof, And if the matters duly alleged in such writ, shall be 
'1und for the people, or the defendants sball make default, judgment
shall be rendered that the letters patent, or act of incorportion specified 
in the writ, as the case may be, be vacated and annulled. 
SEC. 5. Writs ofBcire/aciaB may be issued, tested and returned, at
the same time and in the same manner as writs of capfaa ad rapon- 
denclum in personal actions ; and, except where otherwise provided, 
it shall not be necessary to have any particular number of days be-
tween the teste and return day thereof. 
SEC. 6. It shall be the duty of the sheriff or other officer to whom 
any writ of ad.re faci,as may be directed, to endeavor to serve the 
same, notwithstanding any· directions which he may receive to the
contrary, from the plaintiff therein, or his attorney. 
SEC. 7. EYcry such writ shall be served by delivering a copy there-
of, certified by the officer serving the same, to the party required to 
be summoned; or by leaving such copy at his dwelling-house, with 
any person of proper age. If it be [issued against acorporation, it
shall be served in the same manner as prescribed for the service of a 
summons, in the fourth Title of the eighth Chapter of this Act. And 
summoners shall not be neceesary in any case. 
SEC. 8. In all cases where the writ shall be returned duly served,
the appearance of the persons or corporations so summoned, shall be 
entered by the clerk as in other cases. And the plaintiff shall be en- 
titled, on the filing of such writ, so returned; to enter a rule requiring 
the defendant to plead to such writ, within twenty days after the 1er­
vice of notice thereof; notice of which rule shall be served in the
same manner and with the like effect, as in personal actions. 
SEC. 9. If the sheriff' return, that any peraon who was the original 
defendant in a judgment, and was required to be summoned by such
writ, cannot be found, and has no dwelling-house within his a,unty,
the court shall, after the filing of the 1cirefacia1, direct a rule to1be
entered, requiring the defendant to appear and plead ·to such ,cirefa­ 
ciaa, within twenty days after the last publication of such rule, as 
herein after provided. , 
SEC. 0. A copy of such rule, certified by the clerk of the court, sball
be published for four weeks successively in the state paper. 
SEC. 1. If such defendant shall not appear and plead to such acire Ja- 
ciaa, within the time limited in the rule, the plaintiff shall be entitled,
upon filing an affidavit of the due publication of such rule, to enter 
the default of the defendant, and judgment shall be rendered upon 
such default, in like manner as if the writ had been returned served. 
SEC. 2. No declaration shall be required to be filed upon the acire 
jactaS; but where executors or administrators are plainti1fs in any . 
such writ, they shall make profert of their letters testamentary or of ,
administration, in the scire faciaa, in the same manner as now prac·
tised in the declaration. And the defendant shall plead to such wri4 
in the same manner as to a declaration.
SEC. 8. No proceeding shallbe had on- any writ of acit"efacial, un­ 
less the same 'shall have been served, or notice thereof published, as
herein before provided. And no proceedings shall be had against any 
bail prosecuted by scire f acia8, until such writ shall have been per· 
sonally served. 
SEC. 4. Whenever judgment shall be rendered against the defendan4
upon any scire f acias brought to vacate letters patent, or to vacate 
any act of incorporation, a copy of the record of such judgment shall
be forthwith filed in the office of the secretary of this state. 
SEC. 5. Such secretary shall thereupon, if the record relate to, letters
patent, make an entry in the records of the commissioners of the land· 
office, of the substance and effect of such recovery, and of the time
when the record thereof was docketed ; and the lands and tenements 
granted by such letters patent, may thereafter be disposed of by such 
commissioners, in the same manner as if such letters patent had never 
been issued. ' 
SEC. 6. If the record relate to an act of incorporation, the secretary
.of state shall forthwith cause notice of the substance and effect of 
such recovery, to be published for four weeks in the state paper, and
the like time in a newspaper printed in the county where the princi· 
I 
pal office or place of business of the company created by such act, ~11
~ . . 
SEC. 7. Whenever any judgment shall be rendered for the vacating
and annulling of any act of incorporation, pursuant to the provisions 
of this Article, the. court of chancery shall-have the same powers to
restrain the corporation created by such act ; to appoint a receiver of 
its property and effects; and to take an account and make distribution
thereof among its creditors, as are given in the third Article of the fourth 
Title of the eighth Chapter of this Act, upon the voluntary dissolution
of corporations ; and it shall be the duty of the attorney-general, im­
mediately after the rendering of any judgment vacating and annulling 
any such act of incorporation, to institute proceedings for that pur- 
pose, in the said court. 
AllTIOLB SECOND. 
Of 1,(ormationll tn the Nature of a Quo Warmnto, and in cer­
tain other Ouea. 
SEC. 8. When u inf'ormation may be filed er coane.
SEC. 9. Capiu to inue on .61.ing it, proceedmp oa. itl retana.
SEC. 0. When defendant u,urping an office, may be held to bail. 
SEC. 1. How judgment in nch cue may be rendered,
SEC. 2. IC jadplent for relator, he may eater upon office, &c.
SEC. 3. Penalty on defendant for not delivering boob, &c. 
SEC. 6. Proceedinga by relator to reeoTer cbmagea.
SEC. 8. Plea; right or pJaiutil' to reconr. 
SEC. 7. Trial or i11uea; jllelgm~t; u:ecution.
SS. Damages how u1es1ed iC there be no trial.
SEC. 9. lnf'ormationa agawt corpontiou, .61.ing upon leaye granted. 
SEC. 0. Lean to be granted by 111preme comt or a justice thereof. 
SEC. 1. Proeeeding9 on filiDg iDformation; 91IIDlllOU, &c._ 
SEC. 2. Senice or l1IIDJDOU j appearance or defendant, "C· 
SEC. 4. Proceedinga if defendants can not be found.
& When information may be filed againat ae...enl penou. 
SEC. 8. Rule to p1ad bow uad when entered; notice thereof. 
,f'l. Time to plead, &e. how and by whom ~·
SEC. 8. Judgment upon conriction or umping office, "c. 
O. Judgment OD oonriction oC oorporation.
SEC. 0. Co,ta on judgment, bow collected. . 
SEC. 1. Powen or chancery on eonTiction or corpontion.
62.. Record to be filed with aecretuy j aotice, &c. 
SEC. 8. hformation1 to recover property forfeited to the people. 
SEC. 8. An information in the nature of a quo warranto, may be 
filed in, the supreme court of this state, either in term time or vaca-
tion, by the attorney-general, against individuals, upon his own rela- 
tion or upon the relation of any private party, and without applying
to such court for leave, in either of the following cases: 
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into or unlawfully hold
or exercise, any public office,:civil or military, or any franchi~, with­ 
in this state ; or any office in any COfJ!<>ration created by the authori­
ty of this state : 
2. Whenever any public officer, civil or military, shall have done
or suffered any act, which, by the provisions of law 
shall work a for·
feiture of his office : 
1 
a. Where any association or number of persons shall act, withi.'1 
this state, as a corporation, without being legally incorporated.12 
SEC. 9. Whenever any such information ;hall be filed, a capia, ad 
respondendum shall be issued thereon, which shall be served and re. 
turned in like manner as in personal actions ; and whenever the same
shall be returned served, the clerk of the court shall enter the defen­
dant's appearance. 
• ~ SO. Whenever any such information shall be filed against any 
l'. • ffi th I • ddi • to
person, tor usurpmg any o ce, e attorney-genera , m a tion 
the matters now required to be set forth in the information, may also 
set forth therein the name of the person rightfully entitled to such of.
fice, with an averment of his right thereto ; and in such case, upon
proof, by affidavit, that the defendant has received any fees or emolu­
ments belonging to such office, and by means of his usurpation thereof,
an order may be granted by any justice of the supreme court, for hold­
ing such defendant to bail ; and thereupon the defendant shall be arrest­ 
ed and held to bail, in like manner and with like effect, and subject to
the same rights and liabilities, as upon a capias ad re,pondendtAn 
in personal actions.
SI. In every such case, judgment shall be rendered upon tho 
right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so averred
to be entitled ; or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall 
require.,
SEC. 2. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person 80 
averred to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, be 
shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office, and executing any 
official bond which may be required by law, to take upon him the exe­
cution of the office ; and it shall he his duty immediately thereafter,
to demand of the defendant in such information, all the books and pa· 
pers in his custody or within his power, belonging to the office from 
which he shall have been ousted. 
~ 3S. If such defendant shall ref use or neglect to deliver over any 
such books or papers, pursuant to such demand, he shall be deemed 
guilty of n misdemeanor; and the like proceedings shall be bad, and 
with the like effect, to compel the delivery of such books and papers, 
as are prescribed in the sixth Title of the fifth Chapter of the First 
Part of the Revised Statutes. .
SEC. 4. If judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so aver- 
red to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may, at any ti~ with· 
in one year after the docketing of such judgment, make and file a
suggestion that he has sustained damages to a certain amount, by rea­ 
son of the usurpation, by the defendant, of the office from which such 
defendant has been evicted, and praying judgment therefor. 
SEC. 5. Such suggestion shall be entered, with the proceedings there- 
on, upon the record of the judgment, or shall be attached thereto, as
continuation of the same ; it shall be served on the defendant's at- 
torney, and a rule to plead thereto shall be entered, and notice there-
of given, in the same manner and with the like effect, as upon the fil- 
ing of a declaration in personal actions. 
SEC. 6. The defendant may plead generally, that the person filing 
such suggestion has not sustained any damages, by reason of the pre- 
mises in his suggestion alleged; and on the trial of any such issue, the 
plaintiff therein shall be entitled to recover the damages which he may
have sustained, by reason of such ursurpation. 
SEC. 7. All issues of fact or of law, that shall be joined between the
parties, shall be determined as in personal actions; and the party re- 
covering judgment, shall be entitled to have the same docketed, and
to take out execution for any damages and costs, or either, that may
be adjudged to him, in the same manner as in personal actions. 
SEC. 8. If no issue of fact be joined upon such suggestion, or if judg· 
• 
ment be rendered agamst the defendant by default, on demurrer or
otherwise, a writ of inquiry shall be issued to the sheriff of the coun- 
ty within which the duties of tho office are to be exercised, if the same
be local, and if otherwise, to the sheriff of any county witb.µi this state, 
to assess the damages sustained by the person filing such suggestion,
by reason of the premises; or an order may be entered, that such da- 
mages be assessed at a circuit court to be held in the county where
the venue in such action shall be laid, and a circuit roll shall be made 
up, tried and returned as in other cases. 
SEC. 9. An information, in the nature of a quo wa"anlo may also
be 
. ,
filed by the attorney-general, upon his own relation, on leave grant- 
ed, against auy corporate body whenever such corporation shall, 
1. Offend against any of tho provisions of the act or acts, creating, 
altering or renewing such corporation : or, 
2. Violate the provisions of any law, by which such corporation 
shall have forfeited its charter by misuser : or, 
a. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges and franchises
by non-user : or, 
4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any acts which amount 
to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges and franchise_s: or, 
6. Whenever it shall exercise any franchise or privilege not con·
fened upon it by law: · .. 
And it shall be the duty of the attorney-general to file such informa­
tion, in every instance in which he shall have good reason to believe 
that the same can be established by proof.1' 
SEC. 0. Leave to file such information may be granted by the SU• 
prerne court, in term time, or by any justice thereof, but by no other 
_ _ _ _ ----J~.....,..., au •--.vu. ADu 
such court or justice may, in their discretion, direct notice of such ap­
plication to be given to the corporation or its oflicen, previous to
granting such leave, and may hear such corporation in opposition 
thereto.•• 
SEC. 1. Upon such leave being granted and endorsed on the informa.
tion, under the hand of the clerk of the court or of the justice granting 
the same, the attorney-general may forthwith file the· 881De, and there­
upon may issue a writ of summons against such corporation, to be di­
rected to the sheriff' of the county where the principal office or place of
business of such corporation shall be, commanding him to summon 1och
corporation to appear in the said court; and to 8.ll8Wer the said inb'·
mation; but where such corporation shall appear by counsel, puno­ 
ant to the notice above authorised to be given, and shall be beard in
opposition to the granting of such leave, the court or justice granting
leave, may also direct a rule to be entered, requiring the defendants 
to appear and plead to such information, within twenty days after &er·
vice· of a copy thereof, and notice of said rule; and in such case, it
ahall not be necessary to issue a writ of summons. 
SEC. 2. Whenever a summons shall be issued against a corporation, 
pW'Suant to the last section, such summons shall be served, and the
appearance of the defendant be entered on the return thereof, in the 
manner prescribed in the fourth Title of the eighth Chapter of thia
Act. And all the· provisions of that Title, in respect to the prefer­ 
ence to be given in the trial and argument of issues of fact and of law,
shall apply to such issues, when joined upon an information in the
nature of a quo VXlrt"anlo against any corporation. 
SEC. 8. Whenever any writ of capta8 ad rupondMdum or of sum· 
mons, issued upon an information in the nature of a INUJ warranlo,
ffi 
shall be retumed not aerved, by reason ~f the defendants, or the o •
cers of the defendants, not being found within the county, the court
shall direct a rule to be entered, requiring the defendant, whether an 
individual or a corporation, to appear and plead to such information,
within twenty days after the last publication of such rule, u herein 
after provided. , 
SEC. 4. A certified copy of such rule shall be published for four 
shall ot
weeks successively, in the state paper; and if the defendant n 
appear and plead to such information, within the time limited in the 
rule, the plaintiff shall be entitled, upon filing an affidavit of the due
publication of such rule, to enter the default of the defendant; an.d 
judgment shall be rendered upon such def~ult, in like manner as if 
the writ had been returned duly served.
SEC. 5. Where several persons claim to be entitled to the same of· 
fice or franchise, one information may be filed against all such per- 
...., in order to try their respective rights to IUch oftioe Or fran. 
cbile.'' 
SEC. 6. Whenever any writ of capitu ad re,pondffldum, or ·of sum- 
mobs, issued pursuant to the provisions of this Article, shall be re- 
turned duly served, the attorney-general may thereupon enter a rule
in vacation, requiring the defendants to plead to the information filed 
against them, in twenty days after the service of a copy thereof; and
the ame shall be eerved in the ame manner, .and with lib effect, as 
rules upon. declarations in penooal actions. '
SEC. 7. An order may be inade, enlarging the time to plead, rejoin~ 
or demur, upon any information in the nature of a quo warranto by
thenpreme court, or by a justiee thereof; but by no otherpenon. 
SEC. 8. Whenever any defendant, whether a natural person or a cor-
poration, against whom an information in the nature of a quo a,ar- 
t'anlo shall have been exhibited, shall be found or adjudged guilty of
usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully holding or exercising, any
office, franchise or privilege; judgment shall be rendered, that such
defendant be ousted, and altogether excluded from such office, fran-
chise or privilege ; and also, that the attorney-general, or the relator,
it there be one, recover his costs against such defendant. The court
may also, in its discretion, fine such defendant any sum not exceed-
ing two thousand dollars ; which fine, when collected, shall be paid
into the treasury of this state. 
SEC. 9. Whenever it shall be found or adjudged that any corpora-
tion against which an information in the nature of a quo warranto 
shall have been filed, has, by any misuser, non-user or surrender, for-
feiied its corporate rights, privileges. and franchises ; judgment shall 
be rendered, that such corporation be ousted, and altogether excluded 
from such corporate rights, privileges and.franchi~, and that the said
corporation be disaolftd. . 
SEC. 0. If judgment be rendered upon any such information against 
r,.n'y corporation, or against any pel'80ns claiming to be a corporation,
the court may cause the costs the_rein to be collected, by execution 
against the per&0ns claiming to be a corporation, or by attachment
against the directors or other officers of any such corporation. _ 
SEC. 1. Whenever any such judgment shall be rendered, the court,
of chancery ahaD. have the same powers to restrain the corporation 
created by such act ; to appoint a receiver of its property and eJfects; 
and to take an account and make distribution thereof among its credi-
t<>~ u are given in the third Article of the fourth Title of the eighth 
Chapter of this Act ; and it shall be the duty of the attorney-general,
immediately after the rendering of any such judgment, to institute
proceedings for that purpose in the said court .. 
.,., 
SEC. 2. Whenever any such judgment shall be rendered against any
corporation, a_ copy of the record of such judgment shall be forthwith 
filed in the office of the secretary of this _state ; and such secretary 
shall forthwith cause notice of the substance and eft"ect of such rem­ 
very to be published for four weeks in the state paper, and the like
time in a newspaper printed in the county where the principal office
or place of business of such corporation shall be. 
SEC. 8. Whenever, by the provisons of law, any property real or
personal, shall be forfeited to the people of this state, or to any officen 
for their U1e, an information for the recovery of such property, ~
the grounds of such forfeiture, may be filed by the proper officer, in 
any court of record ; upon which the like proceedings and judgment
shall be had, if the information be to recover personal property, u in 
actions of trover, and if it be to recover teal property, as in actions of 
ejectment. 
AllTICLE TRtBD. 
Of Writs of Mandamus and Prohibition. 
81:c. M. RetVDI to ftnt writ, how compelled. 
SEC. 5. Pladingw and proceedinga on return to writ.
SEC. 8. 1 ....... ol &ct wllere to 'be tried. 
flt. Damagu and coata to plaint.ii'; peremptory maodamoa. 
SEC. 8. Reeonry of damage, to bar farther action.
SEC. 9. FAlargiDg time f« retvn; pleaclins, &e. 
SEC. 0. Court may fine, OD ianing peremptory mudamu.
SEC. 1. Writ of prohibition when to iaaue; ita contents.
SEC. 2. Writ how 1ened ud returned. 
SEC. 8. Proceedinga if party iD writ adopt the return. 
SEC. 4. Proceedinp if pdtJ do not adopt return.
SEC. 1. Jadgmeat wlMD party adopt, retura. 
SEC. 4. Whenever any writ of mandamu., shall be issued out o( tltt 
supreme court of this state, the person, body, or tribunal, to whom
the same shall be directed and delivered, shall make retum to the first
writ of mandamu, ; and for a neglect so to do, shall be proceeded
against as provided in the thirteenth Title of the eighth Chapter of 
this AcL10 
SEC. 5. Whenever a return shall be made to any such writ, the~
son prosecuting such writ, may demur or plead to all or any or the
material facts contained in the said retum ; to which the person ma­ 
king such retum, shall reply, take issue or demur ; and the like pro­
ceedingl shall be had therein for the determination thereof, as might 
have been had, if the person prosecuting such writ had brought his
action on the case for a false retum.17 
SEC. 6. Issues of fact joined in any such proceeding, shall be tried in
the county within which the material facts contained in the montltr 
,nus, shall be alleged to have taken place. 
§ &'1, In case a verdict shall be found for the person suing such
writ, or if judgment be given for ~i~ ~pon demurrer o~ b! default,~ 
he shall recover damages and costs, m like manner as he ·tmght have
done in such action on the case as aforesaid ; and a peremptory man- 
darnua shall be granted to him without delay •18 
SEC. 8. A recovery of damages by virtue of this Article, against any
JJ¥ty who shall have made a return to a writ of mandamua, shall be 
a bar to any other action against the same party, for the making of 
111ch return. 
19 
SEC. 9. The supreme court, or any justice thereof, shall have the 
same power 1o enlarge the time for making a return and pleading
thereto, and for filing any subsequent pleading, as in personal actions. 
SEC. 0. Whenever a peremptory mandamus shall be directed to any
public officer, body or board, commanding them to perform any pub- 
lie duty specially enjoined upon them by any. provisions of law, if it 
shall appear to the court, that such officer, or any member of such
body or board, has, without just excuse, refused or neglected to per- 
form the duty so enjoined, the court may impose a fine not exceeding 
two hundred and fifty dollars, upon every such officer or member of 
such body or board ; and such fine, when collected, shall be paid into 
the treasury. And the payment of such fine, shall be a bar to aJJY ac- 
tion for any penalty incurred by such officer or member of such body
or board, by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so 
enjoined.
SEC. 1. A writ of prohibition shall only be issued out of the supreme 
court ; and hereafter such writs shall be applied for upon affidavits, by
motion, in the same manner as writs of mandamu,. And if the cause 
shown shall appear to the court to be sufficient, a writ shall be there- 
upon issued, which shall command the court and party to whom it 
shall be directed, to desist and refrain from any further proceedings in 
the. suit or matter specified therein, until the next term of the said su-
preme court, and the further order of such court thereon ; and then to 
show cause, why they should not be absolutely restrained from any 
further proceedings in such suit or matter.
SEC. 2. Such writ shall be served upon the court and party to whom 
it shall be directed, in the same manner as a writ of mandamus; and
a return shall in like manner be made thereto by such court, which
lllay be enforced by attachment, as herein. before provided. 
I 6S. If the party to whom such writ of prohibition shall have been 
directed, shall, by instrument in writing to be signed by him, and 8IP 
nexed to such return, adopt the same return, and rely upon the matters
therein contained, as sufficient cause why such court should not be 
restrained as mentioned in the said writ, such party shall thenceforth 
20 
be deemed the defendant in auch matter; and the penon proeec,ifo,g
such writ may reply, take issue or ~mur, to the matten eo relied 
upon by SUJ:a defendant ; and the like proceeding ehall be had for the
trial of issues of law or fact joined between the parties, and b the 
rendering of judgment thereupon, as in penonal actions.
SEC. 4. If the party to whom such writ of ~hibition. aball haft been 
directed, ahall not adopt such return as above proyided, the party ~
1eeuting 8UCh writ, shall bring on the argument of such rebDD, u 
upon rules to show cause ; and he may, by his own affidavit and other
proofs, controvert the matters set forth in such return. And the court,
after hearing the proofs and allegations of the parties, shall render
judgment,-either that a prohibition absolute, restraining the said court
and party from proceeding in such suit or matter, do issue, or a writ
of consultation, authorising the court and party to proceed in the suit 
or matter in question. 
SEC. 5. If the party to whom such first writ of prohibition shall be 
directed, shall adopt the return of the court thereto as above provided,
and judgment shall be rendered for the party prosecuting such wri~ a 
prohibition absolute shall be issued r if judgment be given against sudi
party, a writ of consultation shall be awarded as above provided . 
.&RTIOI.B FOURTH. 
Of the Writ of .Ad Quad Damnum. 
SEC. 8. When and bow writa of inquiry to woe. 
SEC. 7. Conteata oC writ.
fl8, Notice ol encadag. 
SEC. 9. Jary to be nmmoned; their oath. 
SEC. 0. Proeeedinp by jary; iaquiaition; retvn.
71, When mqmitioa may be let uide, b. 
SEC. 2. How and when title Tutecl in the people. 
SEC. 8. Coeta and apeuea bow to be ,-id.
SEC. 4. Dam .... pucl iDto eoart, to be inftlted, b, 
SEC. 5. Proceedinp by claimuta to obtain damage•. 
SEC. 8. Tim Article to apply wba lands taken by United Statu. 
SEC. 6. Whenever the governor of this state "Shall be authorised bJ 
law to take poaeaion of any lands or tenements within tbil state, in 
the uae of the people of this state, and he can not agree with the
owner or owners of such lands or tenements, for the purchase tbe,eol; 
he shall cause application to be made to the court of chancery, for•
writ of inquiry of damages, which shall thereupon be issued to the
sheriff of the county within which such lands or tenements shall be
lituated, unless the chancellor ahall direct such damages to be ......,d 
by a foreign jury.
~ 6'1.- Such writ shall describe the said lands and tenements, with 
the like certainty as required in a declaration in ejectment; and shall 
command the sheriff, that by the oaths of twelve good and lawful
men of his county, he shall inquire whether the person or persons
owning the said lands or tenements, or any of such penoDI, will 1111" 
tain any and what injury, by reason of the taking of such premiaes for 
the use of the people of this state ; and that he return the said writ, 
with the finding of the jury thereupon, to the court of ch~cery, with- 
out delay. 
SEC. 8. Upon such writ being delivered to the sheriff, he shall giTe
at least three weeks' notice of the time and place of executing the 
same, by publishing a notice thereof in a newspaper printed in · his 
county.
SEC. 9. The sheriff" shall summon twelve qualified jurors of his coun- 
ty, to attend at such time and place, and shall then and there admi-
nister to each of the said jurors, an oath that he will diligently inquire 
_ concerning the matters specified in the said writ, and will give a true
verdict, according to the best of his judgment, without favor or par- 
tiality. 
I 
SEC. 0. After the jury shall have been duly sworn, they shall pro- 
ceed to view all the lands and tenements specified in the writ ; and
having duly considered the value thereof, they shall proceed to &YeSS 
the damages whi~h the owner, or if there be several, which the re- 
spective owners of such lands and tenements will sustain, by being
deprived thereof. They shall make an inquisition, to be signed by 
themselves and by the sheriff, in which they shall 1et forth the names
of the several owners of the lands and tenements in question, and 
the rights of each owner respectively, so far as the same can be as­
certained by them, together with the amount to be paid therefor by
the people of this state, and to whom, particularly ; which inquisi-
tion the sheriff shall forthwith return, together with the writ, to the 
court of chancery.
SEC. 1. The court shall examine the inquisition returned, and if the 
same be partial or defective, may set aside the same, either wholly 
or in part, and may direct a new inquisition to be taken, to supply
such defects. 
SEC. 2. Whenever the writ shall appear to have been duly execut- 
ed, an order shall be entered, declaring that the people of this stat&,
.on paying into the said court of chancery, the amount aS8eS8ed in the 
said inquisition, for damages 88 aforesaid, aball be entitled to an abeo-
lute estate in such lands and tenements, 88 described in the BB.id writ, 
with the appurtenances, as fully and effectually as if the same had 
been conveyed to the said people by the owners thereof; , and imme- 
diately after the payment of such monies, the absolute title to the said 
lands and tenements, shall be vested in the people of this state.
, ~ 7S. All monies which may be necessary to pay any damages as- 
aessed, and .any costs and expenses incurred, under the foregeing sec-
tions of this Article, shall be paid to the governor, out of the treasury. 
prorision has been herein made & appeals to cireuit ~ ml
except appea)s from orders concerning any admeuurement of dow- 
~" I 
SEC. 5. Such appeals from the decree of a surrogate, A>r tile final 
settlement of the account of any executor, administrator or guardian,
shall be made within three months after such decree aball have been 
recorded.~ . 
SEC. 6. Such appeals from the order of a eurrogata f'or the appoint·
ment of a guardian, or for his removal ; or upon a refutal to make 
such removal ; shall be made within six months after such ortlel' lball
have been entered. 
SEC. 7. In all other cases not herein before specified, and not otb-
erwise limited by law, appeals from the orders,decrees and 11entences
of surrogates, to the court of chancery, shall be mad&' within tfurty 
days after such order, decree or aentence aball ban been made.11
SEC. 8. :Di o such appeal shall be effectual, until a bond be filed 
with the surrogate, with two sufficlent sureties to be approted by
him, in the penalty of at least one hundr.ed dollars, to the advene
party, conditioned substantially that the appellant will prosecute hi.1
appeal to effect, and will pay all costs that shall be adjudged agaimt 
him by the court of chanoery. 
SEC. 9. Every nch appeal, when perfected, except in .the Clll!I 
specified in the two next sections, shall 8Ulp8Dd all 'proceedingl Cl 
the order appealed from, until such appeal be determined, or until tile
court to which the appeal shall have been made, shall authorise po­ 
ceedinga thereon. 
SEC. 0. Appeals from the order of any surrogate appointing am~ 
lector or Bpeeial administrator on 1he estate of any deoeued pera; 
&om orders directing the sale of perishable property ; &om orders~
pointing appraisers of personal property ; and &om all orders .b the 
service and publication of notices ; shall not stay or affect any pro­ 
ceedings under such orders. 
SEC. 1. Appeals from orders for the commitment, or awarding~
cess for the commitment of any executor, administrator or guardian, 
for not returning an inventory, rendering an account, or obeying any 
other order of a surrogate ; and aplJeals from such orders for the com- i 
mitment of any person refusing to obey any subpcena, or to testify, 
when required, according to law ; shall not stay the execution of ,uch 
orders or process, unless the party committed, shall give bond, 11 di­
rected in the next section. 
SEC. 2. Such bond shall be executed, at the time of filing the ap­
peal, by the appellant and two sufficient sureties, to be approved by 
the surrogate, to the people of this state, in a sufficient penalty, not 
exceeding one thousand do)Jars, conditioned, that if the order appeal-
ed from, shall be affirmed, such peraon will within twenty·days after 
such affirmance, surrender himself to the custody of the sheriff to
whom he shall have been committed, in obedience to such order or 
process. 
i· 11s. If the condition of such bond be violated, it shall be pro-
secuted by the district attorney of the county, under the direction of~boml.
the surrogate receiving the same, in the same manner and with the
like eff"ect as recognizances for the appearance of any party, when 
they become forfeited. 
SEC. 4. If it appear to the court in which a recovery on such bond
shall be had, that any party has suffered pecuniary injury, by reason 
of the misconduct of the person so ordered to be committed, or by 
reason of the delay caused by such appeal, such court may order such 
part of the said penalty~as it shall deem reasonable, to be paid to such
party. 
SEC. 5. The amount of s~ch recovery, which shall not be paid over 
u above directed, shall be paid into the county treasury. 
SEC. 6. Appeals from the order of a surrogate suspending or remov-
ing any executor, administrator or guardian, shall not affect any such 
order, until the same be reversed. 
SEC. 7. In every case of an appeal from the order, decree or sen- 
fence of a sunogate, or from the decision of a circuit judge, the filing 
such appeal in the office of the surrogate, and perfecting the same, by
giving a bond in.the cases required by law, shall be deemed sufficient
notice of such appeal to the adverse party, without any other notice. 
SEC. 8. Appeals to the supreme court, from the ordent of surrogates 
and the decisions of courts of common pleas, confirming or vacating
any admeuurement of dower, shall be made within thirty days after 
such order or decision made, upon giving a bond as required by law •14 
SEC. 9. Appeals to the court of chancery, from the judgments, or-
ders and determinations of the courts of common pleas, made upon 
any proceedings instituted thefflin, in relation to the penoma and es- 
tates of habitual drunkards, must be made within three months after
the inaking such order, determination or judgment, and upon giving 
the security required by law. 
I HO. The court of chancery shall proceed thereon, in the same 
• 
manner u upon appeals from surrogates; and shall prescribe, by rule,
the course of practice thereon, and on appeals from surrogates and
the decisions, of circuit judges, in the eases herein before specified. 
SEC. 9. When judgment 'shall be rendered for a defendant on a plea
of misnomer in abatement, no costs shall be allowed to either party. 
~ SO. When judgment shall be rendered upon a confession, with- 
• . b h h ll be d • . the
out any action roug t, costs s a recovere , as m o r cases ; 
except that if the sum actually due, or the sum actually intended to 
be secured, sliall not exceed five hundred dollars, the plaintuf''s and
defendant'; costs together, shall not exceed ten dollars ; and if such 
sum do not exceed fifty dollars, no costs whatever shall be reconr­
ed. •'7 
SEC. 1. If upon a writ of error, the judgment be reversed, the plain-
tiff in error shall recover costs ; unless in such judgment a new trial 
be ordered, in which cue, the coats on such reversal shall be in the
discretion of the court. If a judgment be reversed in part, and affirm­ 
ed in part, costs shall be awarded to either party in the discretion of 
the court.18 
I S!. If upon such writ, the judgment be affirmed, or the writ be
discontinued or quashed, or the plaintiff' in error be non-suited, the de- 
fendant in error shall recover costs ; and also damages for the delay
and vexation, to be assesaed in the discretion of the court, before whom 
the writ was returnable.1st • 
~ SS. If the judgment -so affirmed was rendered after verdict, the
defendant in error may recover twice the amount of his taxed bill of
costs, in the discretion of the court. 
• 
20 
to which any writ of error may be returnable, or 
to which any appeal may be made, may award costs against the party
neglecting to file such writ, or the transcript of the record intended to
be removed thereby, or neglecting to file such appeal and the plead­ 
ings and the proceedings appealed from, according to the rules of the
court; and may also award costs against either party, for any discon- 
tinuance or default. -
SEC. 5. Upon appeals from surrogate's courts to the court of~ 
• 
ry and upon appeals from the court of chancery to the court for the 
• 
correction of errors, costs shall be paid by the appellant or respon-
dent, as shall be directed by the court to which the appeal ,is made;
and upon affirming any decree, or upon the appeal being discontinued
or quashed, the court may, in its discretion, award damages ior the 
delay and vexation caused by such appeal. ~1 
SEC. 6. Whenever a cause shall be noticed for trial, and such notice 
• 
shall be countermanded, the defendant shall be entitled to all the costs 
actually incurred by him previous to the service of such counter­ 
mand. 22 
SEC. 7. In suits against executors and administrators, in which the
plaintiff shall recover costs, the judgment shall be, that such costs be 
collected of the assets of the deceased ; unless, in the C88eS provided
for in the third Title of the sixth Chapter of the Second Part of the
Revised Statutes, the court shall award such costs to be paid by the
executors or administrators. 
I SS. In all civil suits and proceedings, by or in the name of the
people of this state, instituted by any officer duly authorised for that 
purpoee, and not brought on the. relation of any citizen, the people
shall be liable for costs in the same cases, and to the same extent, as
if such suit or proceeding was instituted by an individual. 
SEC. 9. Where a suit or proceeding shall be instituted in the name 
of the people of this state, on the relation' of any citizen, such relator
shall be· liable for coau, inthe same cases, and to the same extent, as 
if mch suit or proceeding had been commenced in his own name. 
SEC. 0. Upon refusing an altemative or a peremptory mandamu,,
the court may ~ward costs to be paid by the party applying for such 
mandamw. 3p
SEC. 1. Whenever a peremptory mandomua shall be granted upon 
the coming in of a retum to a previous mandamua, without any issue
oC-Cact or of law being joined upon such return, the court shall award 
costs to the relator in the same manner as if such peremptory mancla- 
mu, had been awarded upon a judgment on demurrer to such return,
u111ess it shall appear on such retum that there was some reasonable
excuse for not haYing done the act required. 
SEC. 2. In proceedings by attachment to enforce or protect the civil
rights and remedies of parties, or for the non-payment of any sum of 
money, cQflta shall be awarded to be paid by the offending party. 
SEC. 3. If such attachment be issued by the supreme court, and the
amount to be collected thereon, or the fine or other sum ordered to be 
paid, exceed two hundred and fifty elollars,·such COits shall be taxed 
at the rate allowed for services in the supreme-court ; if such sum. be
two hundred and fifty dollars or leas, such costs shall be taxed at the 
rate allowed for services in a court of common pleas. 
SEC. 4. Where any action shall be brought in the name of another,
l,y an assignee of any right of action, or by any person beneficially in- 
terested in the recovery in such action, such assignee or person shall
be liable for costs in the same cases and to the same extent, in which
a plaintiff would be liable; and the payment of such costs may be en- 
forced by atta~hment. 
TITLE II. 
OF SECURITY FOR THE PAYMENT or COSTS.
Sec. J. In what cue. defendant may require security for colll. 
2. Abo when pbiiutiff become• non-reaident, ltc. after suit brought. 
a. Orcler for 1ecarity, bow ud by whom to be made. 
SEC. 7. Fees of .Attorneys m Courta of Common Pua., 4tld 
Mayor'• Courts. 
For a retaining fee two dollars and fifty cents; but no such fee shall
be allowed to the plaintiff's attorney in any suit upon a bond taken 
on the arrest of a defendant; nor to the defendant's attorney, for con­ 
fessing judgment, where no suit shall have been actually bro~t:
For every necessary ordinary motion, twenty..fiye cents: 
Arguing every special motion, one dollar :
Drawing a declaratioa, one dollar and fifty cents ; copy the~ 
seventy-five cents : ,
Drawing a plea, twenty-five cents; copy thereof; twelve and a half 
cents: '
Drawing a writ of inquiry, and copy, one dollar and twelve and a 
half cents:
Drawing and copy of every brief, \seventy-five cents :
Every notice of trial, copy and service, twenty-five cents:
Note of issue for the clerk, and serving, twelve and a half cents:
Every other notice in any cause or proceeding, copy and service, 
nineteen cents: ·
Drawing all other pleadings, suggestions, entries, special verdicts, 
bills of excei,tion, demurrers to evidence, cases and process, whicli
shall be necessary, and all other necessary entries and proceedings in 
a cause, according to the practice of the court, and for which no ,pe­ 
cial provision is herein made, eighteen cents for oach folio : 
For engrossing or copying the same, including all records, writs,
returns, pleadings, instruments, and all other writings necearily ilr 
serted, nine cents for each folio: ·
But where any fee is prescribed for any. process by name, either 
for the attorney or clerk issuing the same, no charge shall be made
for the draft or copy of such process : 
Fee on trial, or reference, for arguing a demurrer, special verdic4
bill of exceptions, demurrer to evidence, or any case or motion i>r a
new trial ; or attending prepared for such trial, reference or argument, 
in pursuance of notice ; two dollars :
For attending the execution ofa writ of inquiry, or the assessment 
of damages by the clerk, one dollar :
. AUendance before a judge, on examining a witness, showing cause 
of action, motion to mitigate bail, on the taxation of costs, or other 
speeial matters; or upon motion for any necessary onler which sball 
be granted ; twenty-five cents: .
Drawing and copy of a bill of costs, twenty-five cents; and for 
each copy actually delivered to any party in the cause, at hla request, 
twelve and a half cents:
Drawing and copy of a record of judgment, two dollars and twenty· 
five cents. 
SEC. 8. Feu of tAe Officers toAo are autlioriaed by low to perform 
thefollotDtng service,: . 
For administering an oath or affirmation, in cases wher.e no fee is
specially provided for by law, and certifying the same when required, 
twelve and a half cents :
For taking the acknowledgment of bail in the supreme court, and 
in any court of common pleas or mayor's court, twenty-five cents :
. For taking the acknowledgment of satisfaction of a decree in chan­ 
cery, or of a judgment in the supreme court, court of common pleas
or mayor's court, thirty-eeven and a half cents : 
For taking and certifying the acknowledgment or proof of any con­
veyance or mortgage of real estate, or any instrument concerning real 
estate, which by law may be recorded, thirty-seven and a half cents
for each person making such acknowledgment, and for each person 
whose execution of such conveyance, mortgage or instrument, shall be
preved: 
But where a lease and release of the same premises shall be exe­
cuted at the same time, they shall be considered as one conveyance. 
SEC. 9. Feu of Juaticu oftAe Peace, inproceedingB bejor&tMJn,
not provided /or in the Second Chapter of thu .Act. 
· A warrant for the apprehension of any person charged with any
violation of the laws concerning the internal police of this state, or
with being the father of a bastard, nineteen cents : 
Endorsing any such warrant issued from another county, twelYe and
a half cents: · 
A summons for any offence relating to the internal police of this
state, or in case of any special proceedings to recover the poaession
of land, or otherwise, twenty-five cents : 
Drawing, signing and depositing with the clerk of the county, a
record of a conviction, thirty-seven and a half cents : 
An execution upon any conviction before him, nineteen cents :
Drawing, copying and certifying a bond or recognizance, and filing 
the same with the county clerk, twenty-five cents :
A warrant of commitment for any cause, nineteen cents :
Every subpcena, six cents :
For a precept to summon a jury, thirty-seven and a half cents : 
· Swearing any jury, twenty-five cents :
Hearing the matter concerning, which a jury is summoned, fifty 
cents: 
Receiving and entering their verdict, twelTe and a half cents :
For taking and certifying the acknowledgment of any instrument 
which is required to be acknowledged before a jastice, twenty-five
cents: 
For a view of premises alleged to be deserted, fifty cents. 
Summoning a foreign or special jury, pursuant to a t,fflU"t iorthat
purpose, and returning the panel, one dollar and twelve and a half 
cents: ,
Summoning a jury, pursuant to any precept or summons of any of:. 
ficer, in any special proceeding, one dollar; and for attending such
jury when required, fifty cents: 
Bringing up a prisoner upon a Aabeaa corpu,, to testify or answer
in any court, one dollar and fifty cents; and for travelling each mile 
from the jail, twelve and a half cents:
For attending any court with such prisoner, one dollar per day, be­ 
sides actual 'necessary expenses :
Bringing up a prisoner upon any Aabea11 corpu,, with the caUJe of 
his arrest and detention, one dollar and fifty cents, and for travelling,
twelve and a half cents for each mile from the jail : 
Attending before any officer_ with a prisoner, for the purpose oC bu·
ing him surrendered . in exoneration of his bail ; -or attending to re­ 
ceive a prisoner so surrendered who was not committed at the time;
and receiving any such prisoner into his custody, in either cue, one
dollar: 
Attending a view, one dollar eighty-seven and a half cents per day i 
going and returning, one dollar twenty five-cents per day :
Serving an attachment against the property of any debtor, or upon 
any ship or vessel, the same poundage upon the value of the property
aeized, u upon executions; such value to be determined by the in­
ventory and appraisal of such property, if there be any made, or by
proof to the satisfaction of the officer issuing such warrant : 
For making and returning an inventory and appraisal, such com· 
pensation to the appraisers, not exceeding one dollar to each per day,
for each· day actually employed, as the officer issuing the attachment
shall allow, and the same compensation for drafting and copying the
inventory, as is allowed for drafts and copies to attomies in the SU· 
preme court:
For selling any property so attached, and for advertising such •le, 
the same allowance as for sales on executions :
For executing any warrant to remove any person from lands belong· 
ing to the people of this state, or to Indians, such sum as the comp­
troller shall audit and certify to be a reasonable compensation: 
For giving notice of any general or special election, to the inspec· 
tors of the different towns and wards of his county, one dollar for each
town or ward, and the expenses of publishing such notices as required
by law ; such fees and expenses to be paid by the supervisors of the 
county, as part of the contingent charges thereof:
For any services which may be rendered by a constable, the same 
fees BS are allowed by law> for such services, to a constable. IS 
SEC. 9. Feu of Coroner,. 
For all services rendered by them, the same fees as are herein al- 
• 
lowed to sherjffs for similar services : -,
For confining a sheriff in any house, on civil process, two dollars 
i>r each week, to be paid by such sheriff before he shall be entitled to 
be discharged from such confinement.
SEC. 0. Feu of Oonatablu, for amncu in ,pecial proceeding, in 
cizril caau, not promded far in tM Second Chapttr of Uau .4d. 
·Serving a summons, twelve and a half cents ; serving a warrant, 
nineteen cents ; mileage for going only, six cents for each mile :
Serving a warrant of distress for rent, one dollar : 
Making and certifying an inventory of the articles taken, the cause
of the distress, and the amount ofrent due, and leaving one copy there-
of, one dollar : 
Summoning and swearing appraisers, and taking the appraisement, 
fifty cents, and twenty-five cents to each of the appraisers : ·
Advertising and selling any property distrained for rent or doing 
damage; or levying any fine, penalty or sum, pursuant to any war-/
rant ; the same fees as are allowed for similar services on executions 
from justices' courts :
Arresting and committing any person, pursuant to process, fifty 
cents; and mileage for going only, six cents:
And for any services not herein provided for, which may be ren­ 
dered by a constable, the same fees as are allowed by law to sheriffs,
for similar services: 
For attending any court pursuant to a notice from the sheriff for that
purpose, one dollar and fifty cents a day in the city of New-York, and 
one dollar and twenty-five cents a day in each of the other counties
of this state ; which fees shall be chargeable to the county; and shall 
be- paid by the treasurer thereof, on the production of the certificate of 
the clerk, specifying the number of days each constable shall have at­
tended. 
SEC. 1. Feu of Notari,u Public. 
For drawing and copy of protest of the non-payment of a promisso- 
ry note or bill of exchange, or of the non-acceptance of such bill,
twenty-five cents : 
For drawing and copy of every other protest, seventeen cents for
every folio ; and for sealing the same, twenty-five cents : 
For drawing, copy, and servlng every notice of non-payment of a
bill or note, or non-acceptance of a bill, twenty-five cents: 
For drawing and copy of any affidavit or other paper or proceeding,
for which provision is not herein made, the same fees as are allow841 
to attornies in the supreme court, for drafts and copies. · 
SEC. 2. Fie, of Canal Commiarimura, and other Public Officera, 
'"or tle sen,icu l&srein ,picijied. 
JI 
For drawing and copying any lease or deed, to be executed by them
th 
or any of them, in cases where e payment of such service is requir-
ed by law to be made by the lessee or grantee, and no provision is 
made by law for such service, the same fees as are allowed to attor­
nies in the supreme court, for drawing and copying pleadinga, not to 
exceed three dollars ; but such fees shall not be charged to the people
of this state, in any case, unless specially directed by law. 
SEC. 8. Feu for Publiahing in Newspapers, Legal Noticu and 
.AdvertiaemfflU. · 
For publishing notices of any application by an insolvent, under the
provisions of the fifth Chapter of the Second Part of the Revised Sta­
tutes, and furnishing the evidence of such publication, for six weeks,
one dollar and sixty-seven cents; if published ten weeks, two dol­
lars.31 
SEC. 4. Such notice may be published in the following manner :
First, a general heading, stating whether such notices are for the 
purpose of being discharged from debt, or for the purpose of having
the person exonerated from imprisonment, shaII be prefixed to each
class of applicants ; next, the name of the applicant ; next, the date
of the first publication of such notice ; next, the name of the officer
before whom creditors are required to appear; next, the place ap­
pointed for such appearance ; next, the time for such appearance : 
And every such publication shall be deemed as valid, as if such
notice had been published at length. 
SEC. 5. For publishing any other notice, or any order, citation, sum­
moos, or any other proceeding or advertisement, required by law to be 
published in any newspaper, not more than fifty cents per folio for the
first insertion, and twenty cents per folio for each subsequent inser­ 
tion after the first. 
14 
SEC. 6. If all the printers and proprietors of newspapers in any coun­
ty in which any notice, order, citation, or other proceeding or ad¥er­ 
tisement, is by law required to be published, shall refuse to insert the
same for the price herein specified, then it shall be lawful to publish
the same in the state paper, instead of a newspaper printed in such
county; and the state printer shall not demand or.receive any greater
price for the publication thereof, than that above prescribed. 
SEC. 7. If such notice or other advertisement be required by law to
be published in the state paper, and also in a newspaper of any coun­
ty, and the printers and proprietors of newspapers in such county,
shall all refuse to publish the same for the price herein specified, then
such notice or advertisement may be published in a newspaper print- 
eel nearest to the place where any persons shall be required to appear,
or where any act or proceeding is to be had, pursuant to such adver- 
tiaement, the printer of which will consent to publish the same for the 
aid price. Such publication shall be as valid, as if made in the coun- 
ty required by law.
SEC. 8. If no printer will consent to publish such notice or adver- 
• '°" th id ' f th f bei mad h • f.
tisement ror e sai prices, on proo ereo mg e as erem a - 
ter required, the law requiring such publication in any particular
county, shall not take effect, or be in force in respect to such notice
or advertisement. 
SEC. 9. In all cases in which notices shall be published in the state
paper, or in a newspaper of any other county, in consequence of the 
refusal as aforesaid of the printers or proprietors of newspapers in
any county, and in which an affidavit of such publication shall be re- 
quired by law, there shall also be an affidavit of application having
been made to all the printers or proprietors of newspapers printed in
such county, of the price as above specified having been tendered to 
them for publishing such notice, order, citation, advertisement or pro­
ceeding, and of their having refused ; which affidavit, together with 
proof of such publication in the state paper, or in any other newspa-
per as herein required, shall be deemed evidence of a compliance with 
any law requiring such notice, order, citation, proceeding or adver­
tisement, to be published in any particular county. 
SEC. 0. When notice of any sale by virtue of a mortgage, shall be
published in the state paper, pursuant to the provisions of this Title, 
a copy of the said notice shall be served at least six weeks before the
time of such ale, on the person in possession of the mortgaged premi- 
ses, in all cues where the same are occupied ; and where they are not 
occupied, and the mortgagor, his heirs or personal representatives,
shall reside in the county where such premises lie, then upon such
mortgagor, his heirs or personal representatives, as the case may be. 
Proof of the service of such notice may be made, certified and record-
ed, in the same manner and with the like effect, as proof of the pub- 
lication of a notice of sale under a mortgage. 
36
• 
SEC. 1. Feu of Ile .Altomey-Gmeral.
The attorney-general shall be allowed at the rate of five dollars per 
day, for his services on occasions where he may attend on behalf of
the people of this state, without the state of New-York ; and he shall
be allowed all charges for expenditures and disbursements, necessari- 
ly incurred by him, in or about the prosecution or defence of any ac-
tion, right or claim, in which the people of this state may be interest-
ed, to be audited and allowed by the comptroller. 
36 
GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE FEES OF OFFICERS AND
PERSONS TO WHOM ANY ALLOWANCE IS l'tlADE FOR SERVICES. 
SEC. 1. Thu cbapter not to uteDd to criminal cuu.
2. Fee, herein DOt to apply to cuea when 1pecial proruions exist. 
a. Certain cdcen entided to mue .earehea, &c. witllout charge.
4. Fc>lio, to cooailt of one h1Uldnd wonb. 
5. ProJuoition agaimt taking greater fee. than are allowed.
6. Pees not to be taken until Hnice rendered, except, &c. 
7. Penuty for yioJating two Jut HCtiou. 
8. Same penon not to recei.e feea in two capacitiea, &c. 
9. Feea not to be taxed unleu coamel employed; or Nrrieea rendered, ltc.
SEC. 0. For what Nrrica pro.pectin cottl may be taxed. 
SEC. 1. W arnnt of attorney; plaintl; precipe1, noires, not to be taxed.
SEC. 1. One dnft only to be taxed.
SEC. 8. Writiap copied into proeeedingl, &c. not to be coanted u drub. 
SEC. 4. Feea for certified eopiea to be .ilowed.
SEC. 5. Feea not to be allowed attomiel, &c. u witneua. 
SEC. 8. Charges agaimt tbe ltMe, to h ndited by comptrollu. 
SEC. 7. Fee for admiDilteriDg a.th of oftice; when not to be charged. 
SEC. 1. The provisions of this Chapter shall not extend to allow any
fees or compensation for services in any proceedings, treated of in the 
Fourth Part of the Revised Statutes.
SEC. 2. The allowance of any fees by this Chapter, shall not apply to 
any case where special provision is made by law for any particular
service ; but the fees for such service shall be such as are provided
in the statute requiring the service or providing the compensation 
therefor. 
~ S. The secretary of state, comptroller, treasurer, attomey-gene­
ral and surveyor-general respectively, shall be authorised to require
searches in the respective offices of each other, and in the offices of the 
clerks of the supreme court, for any papers, records or documents, 
necessary to the discharge of the .duties of their respective offices, and 
to require copies thereof and extracts therefrom, without the payment 
of any fee or charge whatever. •1 
SEC. 4. Whenever the term " folio" is used in this Chapter, it shall
be construed to mean one hundred words ; counting every figure ne­ 
SEC. 5. No judge, justice, sheriff, or other officer whatsoever, or oth­
er person to whom any fees or compensation shall be allowed by law 
cessarily used, as a word. 
TITLE IV. 
for any service, shall take or receive any other or greater fee or re­ 
ward for such service, but such as is or shall be allowed by the laws
of this state.18 
SEC. 6. No fee or compensation allowed by law, shall be demanded
or received by any officer or person, for any service, unless such ser-
vice was actually rendered by him; except in the case of charges for
prospective costs, herein after specified. But this section shall not 
prevent any officer from demanding any fee herein allowed for any ser- 
vice, of which he is entitled by law to require the payment, previous
to rendering such service. 
SEC. 7. A violation of either of the two last sections shall be deemed
a misdemeanor ; and the person guilty thereof, shall be liable to the
party aggrieved, for treble the damages sustained by him.19 
SEC. 8. When the same person shall act as attorney and counsel,tor
as solicitor and counsel, in the same cause, he shall not be entitled to 
fees in both capacities, in relation to the same motion, hearing, trial,
pleading, or other matter; but shall elect in which capacity he will
receive compensation for such service. But for particular service, 
rendered in a cause by an attorney or solicitor, in reference to any 
matter for which no counsel fee shall be allowed, he shall be entitled
to the fees allowed for such services. 
40 
SEC. 9. No fee shall be taxed for any counsel, unless such counsel
was actually employed ; nor for apy services as having been rendered 
by any counsel, solicitor, attorney, clerk, sheriff or other officer, in
the progress of a cause, unless such service was actually rendered
except when otherwise provided. 41 
SEC. 0. Prospective costs may be charged and taxed, for filing and
docketing a judgment roll or decree, and for one execution thereon. 
SEC. 1. No allowance shall be made for drawing, copying or filing
any warrant of attorney, in a suit actually brought; or any plaint 
or any precipe for any writ, rule,:order, or other proceeding; or any 
"enire, unless in cases where it shall have been actually awarded to
summon a foreign jury. 
SEC. 2. Whenever an allowance is made for drafting any process,
pleading or proceeding, it shall be made for only one draft of the 
same process, pleading or proceeding, notwithstanding several may
have been issued or used. 
~ IS. No record, writ, return, pleading, instrument or other writ-
ing copied into any pleading, proceeding, entry, process or sugges- 
tion, shall be computed as any part of the draft of such pleading or
other proceeding. 
42 
SEC. 4. The legal fees paid for certified copies of the depositions of~
witnesses, filed in any clerk's office, and of any documents or papers
recorded or filed in any public office, necessarily used on the trial of 
a cause, or on the assessment of damages, shall be allowed in the
taxation of costs. 
SEC. 5. No counsel or attorney in any cause, shall be allowed any 
fee for attending as a witness in such cause. 
41 
SEC. 6. The fees and charges of officers, for services rendered to the
people of this state, or chargeable to the state, and which have been 
41 
heretofore audited by the court of exchequer, shall hereafter be audit·
ed by the comptroller, and paid on his warrant. 
SEC. 7. No fee shall be charged by an.v officer, for administering 
the oath of office to any member of the legislature, to any military of.
fleer, to any inspector of elections, or to any town officer ; and no 
more than twelve and a half cents shall be charged for administering 
such oath to any other officer. 
Rae.]. Feu ol of&een to be taxed on being reqalred.
2. After being required, not to be colleeted, until taxed.
3. Cod.I of foreclocing mortgage, whea to be tued.
4. What chargu to be allowed in neh ease.
5. Dutie1 of taxing oftieer1 in regard to items.
8. Affidarit of amount dae, when to be preaented.
7. Certaua ehugea to be proved. 
SEC. 3. Minutee of eourt, &c. when to be produeed. 
SEC. 1. Upon the settlement of an execution by a defendant, or upon 
settling any suit or demand, the sheriff or attorney, claiming any fees
which shall not have been taxed, shall, upon being required by the
defendant, and on his paying the expense thereof, have his fees taxed 
by some proper officer of the court in which the action may be peod· 
ing, or from which the execution shall have been issued. 
SEC. 2. No sheriff' or attorney shall collect any fees after having been 
required as aforesaid, to have the same taxed, without such taxation 
having been made. 
44
. 
TITLE V. 
OF THE TAXATION OF COSTS. 
~ S. The costs and expenses of foreclosing any mortgage by» 
vertisement, shall be taxed by some officer authorised to tax costs in
the supreme court, upon the requisition of any party liable to pay the 
same, and upon such party paying the expense thereof. 
SEC. 4. In the taxation of such costs and expenses, the following aJ.
lowances only shall be made : 
1. For drawing and a copy of the advertisement of foreclosure and
sale, affidavits of the publication and posting thereof, and of the cir·
cumstances of. the sale, and the deed thereof, the same allowance as
is herein made to attornies in the supreme court, for drawing and ~
pies of pleadings : 
2. A fee of ten dollars, for superintending the sale thereon, and
attending to the execution of the necessary papers : 
s. The expense of publishing the advertisement, according to the ' 
rates herein allowed, for a period not exceeding twenty-lour weeks,
the expense of posting such advertisement and inspecting the ame, 
not exceeding one dollar, the ex pen~ of recording the necessary afti- 
davits, and of the proving or acknowledgment of the deed, and of its 
being recorded, and of necessary postage and searches.
SEC. 5. Every officer authorised to tax costs in any court of law or 
equity, or for services rendered in any proceeding authorised by law,
shall examine the bills presented to him for taxation, whether such 
taxation be opposed or not, and shall be satisfied that the items charg-
ed in such bill are correct and legal ; he shall strike out all charges
for services which, in his judgment, were not necessary to be per-
formed, and for all folios in pleadings, entries or proceedings, which
were unnecessarily inserted; and he shall strike out ·the charges for
more than two counts for the same cause of action in any declaration,
and the charges for more than two pleas of the same matter of de- 
fence in any plea. 
SEC. 6. When a bill of costs shall be presented for taxation, upon a
judgment rendered upon any bond or instrument having a penalty, 
before such bill shall be taxed, an affidavit of the plaintiff or his at-
torney shall be produced, specifying the amount due by the condi-
tion thereof. 
SEC. 7. When there shall be charges in a bill for the attendance of
any witness, or for copies or exemplifications of documents or papers,
or for any other disbursements, except to officers for services render-
ed, such charges for witnesses shall not be taxed, without an affidavit
stating the distance they respectively travelled, and the days they actu- 
ally attended ; and such charges for copies shall not be taxed with-
out an affidavit that such copies were actually and necessarily used,
or were necessarily obtained for use ; nor shall such disbursements 
be allowed without an affidavit specifying the items thereof particu-
larly, nor unless they appear to have been necessary and reasonable 
in amount.
SEC. 8. If, upon the trial of any cause, the title to land shall come 
in question, or the plaintiff's claim shall be reduced by set-offs, or
the trespass shall appear to be malicious, or any other fact shall ap- 
pear, which will entitle either party to costs, or to double costs, the
judge or judges holding the court, shall, on the application of either 
party, either before or after verdict rendered, cause an entry to be
made in the minutes of the court, specifying that such title came in 
question, or that such fact appeared ; and no evidence shall be re-
ceived by any taxing officer, of such matter, other than a certified
copy of such minutes, or the certificate of the judge or judges who 
tried the cause. 
