M
§ 10. [10.] Their jurisdiction.generally.
These courts shall continue to exercise the jurisdiction now
vested in them respectively, except as otherwise prescribed by this
act.
Section 11. Its jurisdiction.
12. Power of court.
TITLE II.
The Court of Appeals.
13. Terms. Preference of causes.
14. Judgment, how given.
15. Sheriffs to provide rooms, &c
16. Court, where held. Adjournment.
§ 11. [11.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1861, 1862.) Jurisdiction.
JThe court of appeals shall have exclusive jurisdiction to review
upon appeal every actual determination hereafter made at a general
term by the supreme court, or by the superior court of the city of
New York, or the court of common pleas for the city and county
of New York, or the superior court of the city of Buffalo, in the
following cases, and no other :
1. In a judgment in an action commenced therein or brought
there from another court ; and upon the appeal from such judg
ment, to review any intermediate order involving the merits, and
necessarily affecting the judgment.
2. In an order affecting a substantial right, made in such action,
when such order in effect determines the action, and prevents a
judgment from which an appeal might be taken, and when such
order grants or refuses a new trial ; but no appeal to the court of
appeals from an order granting a new trial shall be effectual for
any purpose, unless the notice of appeal contain an assent on the
part of the appellant that, if the order be affirmed, judgment ab
solute shall be rendered against the appellant. Upon every appeal
from an order granting a new trial, if the court of appeals shall
determine that no error was committed in granting the new trial,
they shall render judgment absolute upon the right of the appel
lant ; and after the proceedings are remitted to the court from
which the appeal was taken, an assessment of damages, or other
proceedings to render the judgment effectual, may be there had, in
cases where such subsequent proceedings are requisite.
3. In a final order affecting a substantial right made in a special
proceeding, or upon a summary application, in an action after judg
ment. But such appeal shall not be allowed in an action originally
commenced in a court of a justice of the peace, or in the marine
court of the city of New York, or in an assistant justice's court of
that city, or in a justice's court of any of the cities of this State,
unless any such general term shall, by order duly entered, allow
such appeal before the end of the next term after which such judg
ment was entered. The foregoing prohibition shall not extend to
actions discontinued before a justice of the peace, and prosecuted
in another court, pursuant to sections sixty and sixty-eight of this
code.
§12. [12.] Power of the court.
The court of appeals may reverse, affirm, or modify, the judg
ment or order appealed from, in whole or in part, and as to any or
all of the parties ; and its judgment shall be remitted to the court
below, to be enforced according to law.
§ 13. [13.] (Am'd 1851, 1852, 1858, 1859, 1862, 1863.) Terms.
—Preference of causes.
There shall be four terms of the court of appeals in each year,
to be held at the capitol in the city of Albany, on the first Tuesday
of January, the fourth Tuesday of March, the third Tuesday of
June, and the last Tuesday of September, and continued for as
long a period as the public interests may require. But the judges
of said court may in their discretion appoint one of said terms in
each year to be held in the city of New York. Additional terms
shall be appointed and held at the same place by the court when
the public interest requires it. The court may, by general rules,
provide what causes shall have a preference on the calendar. On
a second and each subsequent appeal to the court of appeals, or
when an appeal has once been dismissed for defect or irregularity,
the cause shall be placed upon the calendar as of the time of filing
the first appeal ; and whenever in any action or proceeding in
which the people of this State, or any State officer, or any board
of State officers, is or are sole plaintiff or defendant, an appeal has
been or shall be brought from any judgment or order for or against
him or them, in any court, such appeal shall have a preference in
the supreme court and in the court of appeals, and may be moved
by either party out of the order on the calendar.
§ 14. [14.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Judgment. —Rehearing.
The concurrence of five judges is necessary to pronounce a
judgment. If five do not concur, the case must be reheard.
. But no more than two rehearings shall be had ; and if on the
second rehearing five judges do not concur, the judgment shall be
affirmed.
§18. Sheriff to provide rooms.
If, at a term of the court of appeals, proper and convenient
rooms, both for the consultation of the judges and the holding of
the court, with furniture, attendants, fuel, lights, and stationery
suitable and sufficient for the transaction of its business, be not
provided for it in the place where by law the court may be held,
the court may order the sheriff of the county to make such provi
sion, and the expense incurred by him in carrying the order into
effect shall be a county charge.
§ 16. (Am'd 1851.) Court, where held. —Adjournment.
The court of appeals may be held in other buildings than those
designated by law as places for holding courts, and at a different
place, in the same city, from that at which it is appointed to be
held. Any one or more of the judges may adjourn the court, with
the like effect as if all were present.
§ 17. [15.] (Am'd 1849.) Terms.
All statutes now in force providing for the designation of the
times and places of holding the general and special terms of the
supreme court, and the circuit courts, and courts of oyer and
terminer, and of the judges who shall hold the same, are repealed
from and after the 1st day of July, 1848 ; and the order of the
supreme court, adopted July 14, 1847, prescribing the times and
places of holding the general and special terms of the court, and
the circuit courts, and courts of oyer and terminer, during the
residue of the year 1847, and for the years 1848 and 1849, and
assigning the business and duties thereof to the several judges of
the court, is, from and after the first day of July, 1848, abrogated,
and the provisions of this title are substituted in place thereof.
§ 18. [16.] (Am'd 1849.) General terms.
At least four general terms of the supreme court shall be held
annually in each judicial district, and as many more as the judges
in such district shall appoint, at such times and places as a ma
jority of the judges of such district shall appoint.
§ 19. [17.] Judgment, how given.
The concurrence of a majority of the judges holding a general
term shall be necessary to pronounce a judgment. If a majority
do not concur, the case shall be reheard.
§ 20. [18.] (Am'd 1849.) Special terms, &e.
There shall be at least two terms of the circuit court and court
of oyer and terminer held annually in each of the counties of this
State, and as many more terms thereof, and as many special terms,
as the judges of each judicial district shall appoint therein ; but at
least one special term shall be held annually in each of said coun
ties. Fulton and Hamilton shall be considered one county for the
purposes of this section.
§ 21. [19.] (Am'd 1849.) Circuit and oyer and terminer together.
Circuit courts and courts of oyer and terminer shall be held at
the same places, and commenced on the same day.
§22. [23.] (Am'd 1849.) Times and places of holding court.
The governor shall, on or before the first day of May, 1848, by
appointment in writing, designate the times and places of holding
the general and special terms, circuit courts and courts of oyer and
terminer, and the judges by whom they shall be held ; which ap
pointment shall take effect on the first day of July thereafter, and
shall continue until the thirty-first day of December, 1849. The
judges of the supreme court of each district shall, in like manner,
at least one month before the expiration of that time, appoint the
times and places of holding those courts for two years, commencing
on the first day of January, 1850, and so on, for every two succeed
ing years, in their respective districts.
§ 23. [24.] Extraordinary terms, &c
The governor may also appoint extraordinary general and
special terms, circuit courts, and courts of oyer and terminer,
whenever, in his judgment, the public good shall require it.
§ 24. [25.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1862.) Terms, where held.—Ad
journments.
The places appointed within the several counties for holding
the general and special terms, circuit courts, and courts of oyer
and terminer, shall be those designated by statute for holding
county or circuit courts. If a room for holding the court in such
place shall not be provided by the supervisors, it may be held in
any room provided for that purpose by the sheriff, as prescribed
by section twenty-eight.
General and special terms of the supreme or county courts, and
circuit courts, and courts of oyer and terminer, may be adjourned
to be held on any future day, by an entry to be made in the min
utes of the court ; and juries may be drawn and summoned for an
adjourned circuit or county court, or an adjourned court of oyer
and terminer, and causes may be noticed for trial at an adjourned
circuit or county court, in the same manner as if such courts were
held by original appointment.
And speciaMerms may be adjourned to be held at a future day
at the chambers of any justice of said court residing within the
district, by an entry in the same manner, and then adjourned from
time to time, as the justice holding the same shall order and direct.
§ 25. [26.] Publication of appointment.
Every appointment so made shall be immediately transmitted
to the secretary of state, who shall cause it to be published in the
newspaper, printed at Albany, in which legal notices are required
to be inserted, at least once in each week, for three weeks before
the holding of any court in pursuance thereof. The expense of
the publication shall be paid out of the treasury of the State.
§ 26. [28.] Inability of judge.
In case of the inability, for any cause, of a judge assigned for
that purpose, to hold a special term or circuit court, or sit at a
general term, or preside at a court of oyer and terminer, any other
judge may do so.
§ 27. [30.] (Am'd 1849.) Business out of court. —Proceedings in
first district.
The judges shall, at all reasonable times, when not engaged in
holding court, transact such other business as may be done out of
court. Every proceeding commenced before one of the judges, in
the first judicial district, may be continued before another, with
the same effect as if commenced before him.
§ 28. [81.] Rooms, d'c
The supervisors of the several counties shall provide the courts
appointed to be held therein with room, attendants, fuel, lights,
and stationery, suitable and sufficient for the transaction of their
business. If the supervisors neglect, the court may order the
sheriff to do so ; and the expense incurred by him in carrying the
order into effect, when certified by the court, shall be a county
charge.
TITLE IV.
Of the County Courts.
Section 29. Repeal of existing statutes.
30. Jurisdiction.
31. General terms.
32. Jurors.
§ 29. [32.] Repeal of existing statutes.
All statutes now in force conferring or defining the jurisdiction
of the county courts, so far as they conflict with this act, are re
pealed ; and those courts shall have no other jurisdiction than that
provided in the next section. But the repeal contained in this
section shall not affect any proceedings now pending in those
courts.
§ 30. [33.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1860.) Jurisdiction.
The county court has jurisdiction in the following special cases,
but has no original civil jurisdiction except in such cases :
1. Civil actions in which the relief demanded is the recovery
of a sum of money not exceeding five hundred dollars, or the recovery
of the possession of personal property not exceeding in
value five hundred dollars, and in which all the defendants are
- residents of the county in which the action is brought at the time
of its commencement, subject to the right of the supreme court,
upon special motion, for good cause shown, to remove any such
action to the supreme court before trial.
2. The exclusive power to review, in the first instance, a judg
ment rendered in a civil action by a justice's court in the county,
or by a justice's court in cities, and to affirm, reverse, or modify
such judgment.
3. The foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, and the sale
of mortgaged premises situated within the county, and the collec
tion of any deficiency on the mortgage remaining unpaid after the
sale of the mortgaged premises.
4. The partition of real property situated within the county.
5. The admeasurement of dower in land situated within the
county.
6. The sale, mortgage, or other disposition, of the real prop
erty, situated within the county, of an infant, or person of unsound
mind.
I. To compel the specific performance hy an infant heir, or
other person, of a contract made by a party who shall have died
before the performance thereof.
8. The care and custody of the person and estate of a lunatic
or person of unsound mind, or an habitual drunkard, residing
within the county.
9. The mortgage or sale of the real property, situated within
the county, of a religious corporation, and the disposition of the
proceeds thereof.
10. To exercise the power and authority heretofore vested in
such courts of common pleas over judgments rendered by justices
of the peace, transcripts of which have been filed in the offices of
the county clerks in such counties.
II. To exercise all the powers and jurisdiction conferred by
statute upon the late courts of common pleas of the county, or the
judges, or any judge thereof, respecting ferries ; fisheries ; turn
pike roads ; wrecks ; physicians ; habitual drunkards ; imprisoned,
insolvent, absent, concealed, or non-resident debtors ; jail liberties ;
the removal of occupants from State lands ; the laying out of rail
roads through Indian lands ; and upon appeal from the determina
tion of commissioners of highways; and all other powers and
jurisdiction conferred by statute, which has not been repealed, on
the late court of common pleas of the county, or on the county
court since the late courts of common pleas were abolished, except
in the trial and determination of civil actions ; and to prescribe
the manner of exercising such jurisdiction when the provisions of
any statute are inconsistent with the organization of the county
court.
12. To remit vnes and forfeited recognizances, in the same cases
and like manner as, such power was given by law to courts of com
mon pleas. But the first subdivision of this section shall not apply
to the county courts of the counties of Kings and Erie.
13. To grant new trials, or affirm, modify, or reverse judgments
in actions tried in such court upon exceptions, or case made, sub
ject to an appeal to the supreme court. But in any action or pro
ceeding pending in the county court, in which the county judge is
for any cause incapable of acting, it shall be his duty to make a
certificate of such fact, and file the same in the office of the clerk
of such county court, and thereupon jurisdiction of such action or
proceeding shall be vested in the supreme court, and such further
proceedings shall be had therein, according to the practice of such
court, as might have been had in the county court, if such cause
or matter had remained therein; but all such matters shall be
heard or tried in the first instance at a special term or circuit
court, held in a county where such action or proceeding is situated.
§ 31. [34.] (Am'd 1849, 1851. When open.— Terms.
The county court is always open for the transaction of any
business for which no notice is required to be given to an opposing
party. At least two terms in each county for the trial of issues of
law or fact, and as many more as the county judge shall appoint,
shall be held in each year at the places in the counties respectively
designated by statute for holding county or circuit courts, on such
days as the county judge shall from time to time appoint, and may
continue as long as the court deem necessary.
Notice of such appointment shall be published in the State
paper at least four weeks before any such term, and also in a news
paper, if any, printed in the county ; so many of such terms as
the county judge shall designate for that purpose, in such notice,
may be held for the trial of issues of law, and hearing and decision
of motions, and other proceedings at which no jury shall be re
quired to attend.
§ 32. [86, 37, 38.] (Am'd 1849.) Jurors.
Jurors for the county courts and courts of sessions shall be
drawn from the jury-box of the county, and summoned in the same
manner as for the trial of issues at a circuit court.
33. [39.] (Amended 1849, 1852.) Jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction of the superior court of the city of New York,
of the court of common pleas for the city and county of New York,
of the mayors' courts of cities, and of the recorders' courts of
cities, shall extend to the following actions :
1. To the actions enumerated in sections 123 and 124, when
the cause of action shall have arisen, or the subject of the action
shall be situated, within those cities respectively ;
2. To all other actions where all the defendants reside, or are
personally served with the summons, within those cities respect
ively, or where one or more of several defendants, jointly liable on
contract, reside, or are personally served with the summons, within
those cities respectively ; except in the case of mayors' and record
ers' courts of cities, which courts shall only have jurisdiction where
all the defendants reside within the cities in which such courts are
respectively situated. The supreme court may remove into that
court any action brought under this subdivision and pending in the
superior court or court of common pleas for the city and county of
New York, and may change the place of trial therein, as if such
action had been oommenced in the supreme court ; such order for
removal and for change of place of trial to be made in the supreme
court upon motion ; and on filing a certified copy of such order in
the office of the clerk of the superior court, or of the court of
common pleas, such cause shall be deemed to be removed into the
supreme court, which shall proceed therein as if the same had
originally been commenced there ; and the clerk with whom such
order is filed must forthwith deliver to the clerk of the county in
which, by such order, the trial is ordered to be had, to be filed in
his office, all process, pleadings, and proceedings relating to such
cause. And any action or proceeding pending in any mayor's or
recorder's court, in which the judge is for any cause incapable of
acting, may, by such court, be transferred to the county court of
the county ; and thereupon the papers therein on file in the mayor's
or recorder's court shall be transmitted to the county court ; which
shall thenceforth have jurisdiction of such action or proceeding.
3. To actions against corporations created under the laws of
this State, and transacting their general business, or keeping an
office for the transaction of business, within those cities respect
ively, or established by law therein, or created by or under the
laws of any other State, government, or country, for the recovery
of any debt, or damages, whether liquidated or not, arising upon
contract made, executed, or delivered within the State, or upon
any cause of action arising therein.
§ 34. [40.] (Am'd 1849.) Common pleas to review certain judg
ments
The court of common pleas for the city and county of New
York, shall also have power to review the judgments of the marine
court of the city of New York, and of the justice's courts in that
city.
§ 35. [41.] Terms.
The superior court of the city of New York, and the court of
common pleas for the city and county of New York, shall, within
twenty days, appoint general and special terms of those courts,
respectively, and prescribe the duration thereof; and they may,
from time to time, respectively alter such appointments ; and here
after no fees shall be paid for any service of a judge of either of
those courts.
§ 36. [42.] By whom held.
A general term shall be held by at least two of the judges of
those courts respectively, and a special term by a single judge.
§ 37. [43.] Judgments, where given.
Judgments upon appeal shall be given at the general term ; all
others, at the special term.
§ 38. [44.] Judgment, how pronounced.
The concurrence of two judges shall be necessary to pronounce
a judgment at the general term. If two do not concur, the appeal
shall be reheard.
§ 39. Crier.
A crier shall be appointed by the superior court of the cit}7 of
New York, and by the court of common pleas for the city and
county of New York, respectively, to hold his office during the
pleasure of the court. He shall receive a salary, to be fixed by
the supervisors of the city and county of New York, and paid out
of the county treasury.
§ 40. Superior Court.
The superior court of the city of New York shall, from the first
day of May, 1849, consist of six justices.
[Sections 41 to 45, inclusive, obsolete.]
§ 46. Terms.
A general term of the superior court may be held by any two
of the six justices thereof, and a special term by any one of them ;
and general and special terms, one or more of them, may be held
at the same time.
§ 47. [As am'd Laws 1851, p. 8.] Certain suits may be trans
ferred.
All civil suits at issue at the time of the passage of this act,
that from and after the first of May, 1849, shall be placed upon the
calendar of the supreme court, at any general or special term
thereof to be held in the city of New York, and which shall be in
readiness for hearing on questions of law only, or are equity cases,
may by an order of that court, or of the judge holding such special
term, be transferred to the said superior court of the city of New
York, and to be heard at the general terms thereof.
§ 48. Jurisdiction of transferred suits.
The said superior court shall have jurisdiction of every suit so
transferred to it, and may exercise the same powers in respect to
every such suit, and any proceedings therein, as the supreme court
might have exercised, if the suit had remained in that court.
[Section 49 was repealed, Laws 1881, p. 8.]
§ 50. Appeal.
Appeals from the judgments of the superior court in such suits
may be taken to the court of appeals, in the same manner as from
the judgments of the superior court in actions originally com
menced therein.
§ 51. Section applied.
The provisions of section twenty-eight of this act shall apply
to the said superior court.
TITLE VI.
Of the Courts of Justices of the Peace.
Section 52.
Repeal of existing provisions.
58. Jurisdiction.
54.
No jurisdiction in certain cases.
56.
Answer of title.
56.
Undertaking.
57.
Suit discontinued.
58. If undertaking not given.
59. The same.
60.
New action.
61.
Costs.
<M.
Answer of title as to one cause of action
68.
Docketing judgments.
64.
Rules.
§ 52. [45.] (Am'd 1849.) Repeal of existing provisions.
The provisions contained in sections two, three, and four, of the
article of the revised statutes entitled, " Of the jurisdiction of jus-
tices' courts," as amended by sections one and two of the act con
cerning justices' courts, passed May 14, 1840, and the provisions
contained in sections 59 to 66 of the same article, both inclusive,
are repealed; and the provisions of this title substituted in place
thereof. But this repeal shall not affect any action heretofore com
menced in a court of a justice of the peace.
§ 53. [46.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1860, 1861, 1862.) Jurisdiction.
Justices of the peace shall have civil jurisdiction in the follow
ing actions, and no others, excepting as in the second section it is
provided :
1. In actions arising on contracts for the recovery of money
only, if the sum claimed does not exceed two hundred dollars.
2. An action for damages for injury to rights pertaining to the
person, or to the personal or real property, if the damages claimed
do not exceed two hundred dollars.
3. An action for a penalty not exceeding two hundred dollars.
4. An action commenced by attachment of property, as now
provided by statute, if the debt or damages claimed do not exceed
two hundred dollars.
5. An action upon bond conditioned for the payment of money,
not exceeding two hundred dollars, though the penalty exceed that
sum, the judgment to be given for the sum actually due. Where
the payments are to be made by instalments, an action may be
brought for each instalment as it becomes due.
6. An action upon a surety bond taken by them ; though the
penalty or amount claimed exceed two hundred dollars.
'7. An action upon a judgment rendered in a court of justice of
the peace, or by a justice or other inferior court in the city where
such action is not prohibited by section '7I.
8. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defendant,
where the amount confessed shall not exceed five hundred dollars,
in the manner prescribed by article 8, title 4, chapter 2, of part 3,
of the revised statutes.
9. An action for damages for fraud in the sale, purchase, or ex
change of personal property, if the damages claimed do not exceed
two hundred dollars.
10. An action to recover the possession of personal property
claimed, the value of which, as stated in the affidavit of the plain
tiff, his agent or attorney, shall not exceed the sum of one hundred
dollars.
The plaintiff in such action, at the time of issuing the sum
mons, but not afterwards, may claim the immediate delivery of
such property as hereinafter provided.
Before any process shall be issued in an action to recover the
possession of personal property, the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney,
shall make proof by affidavit, showing :
1. That the plaintiff is the owner, or entitled to immediate
possession, of the property claimed, particularly describing the
same.
2. That such property is wrongfully withheld or detained by
the defendant.
3. The cause of such detention or withholding thereof, accord
ing to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the person
making the affidavit.
4. That said personal poperty has not been taken for any tax,
fine, or assessment, pursuant to statute, or seized by virtue of an
execution or attachment against the property of said plaintiff ; or
if so seized, that it is exempt from such seizure by statute.
5. The actual value of said personal property.
On receipt of such affidavit, and an undertaking, in writing,
executed by one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
justice of the peace before whom such action is commenced, to the
effect that they are bound in double the value of such property as
stated in said affidavit, for the prosecution of said action, and for
the return of said property to the defendant, if return thereof be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any
cause be recovered against said plaintiff, the justice shall indorse
upon said affidavit a direction to any constable of the county in
which said justice shall reside, requiring said constable to take the
property described therein from the defendant, and keep the same,
to be disposed of according to law ; and the said justice shall at
the same time issue a summons directed to the defendant, and re
quiring him to appear before said justice at a time and place to be
therein specified, and not more than twelve days from the date
thereof, to answer the complaint of said plaintiff; and the said
summons shall contain a notice to the defendant that, in case he
shall fail to appear at the time and place therein mentioned, the
plaintiff will have judgment for the possession of the property
described in said affidavit, with the costs and disbursements of
said action.
The constable to whom said affidavit, indorsement, and sum
mons shall be delivered, shall forthwith take the property described
in said affidavit, if he can find the same, and shall keep the same
in his custody. He shall thereupon, without delay, serve upon said
defendant a copy of such affidavit, notice, and summons, by deliv
ering the same to him personally, if he can be found in said county ;
if not found, to the agent of the defendant in whose possession said
property shall be found ; if neither can be found, by leaving such
copies at the last or usual place of abode of the defendant, with
some person of suitable age and discretion. And shall forthwith
make a return of his proceedings thereon, and the manner of serv
ing the same, to the justice who issued the said summons.
The defendant may at any time after such service, and at least
two days before the return-day of said summons, serve upon plain
tiff, or upon the constable who made such service, a notice in writing
that he excepts to the sureties in said bond or undertaking ; and if
he fail to do so, all objection thereto shall be waived. If such no
tice be served, the sureties shall justify, or the plaintiff give new
sureties on the return-day of said summons, who shall then appear
and justify, or said justice shall order said property delivered to
defendant, and shall also render judgment for defendant's costs
and disbursements.
At any time before the return-day of said summons, the said
defendant may, if he has not excepted to plaintiff's sureties, re
quire the return of said property to him, upon giving to the plain
tiff, and filing the same with the justice, a written undertaking,
with one or more sureties, who shall justify before said justice on
the return-day of said summons, tt■ the effect that they are bound
in double the value of said property, as stated in plaintiff's- affida
vit, for the delivery thereof to said plaintiff, if such delivery be
adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any
cause be recovered against said defendant ; and if such return be
not required before the return-day of said summons, the property
shall be delivered to said plaintiff.
The qualification of sureties, and their justification under this
act, shall be the same as provided in sections one hundred and
ninety-four and one hundred and ninety-five of the Code in repect
to bail on arrest in the supreme court.
Sections two hundred and fourteen, two hundred and fifteen, and
two hundred and sixteen, of the Code, shall apply to proceedings
and actions brought under this act, substituting the word constable
for the word sheriff whenever it occurs in either of said sections.
The actions so commenced shall be tried in all respects as other
actions are tried in justices' courts.
In all actions for the recovery of the possession of personal
property, as herein provided, if the property shall not have been
delivered to plaintiff, or the defendant, by answer, shall claim a
return thereof, the justice or jury shall assess the value thereof, and
the injury sustained by the prevailing party by reason of the
taking or detention thereof, and the justice shall render judgment
accordingly, with costs and disbursements.
If it shall appear by the return of a constable that he has taken
the property described in the plaintiff's affidavit, and that defend
ant cannot be found, and has no last place of abode in said county,
or that no agent of defendant could be found on whom service
could be made, the justice may proceed with the cause in the same
manner as though there had been a personal service.
For the indorsement on said affidavit, the justice shall receive
an additional fee of twenty-five cents, which shall be included in
the costs of the suit.
§ 54. [47.] No pirisdiction in certain cases.
But no justice of the peace shall have cognizance of a civil ac
tion—
1. In which the people of this State are a party, excepting for
penalties not exceeding one hundred dollars ;
2. "Nor where the title to real property shall come in question,
as provided by sections 55 to 62, both inclusive ;
3. Nor of a civil action for an assault, battery, false imprison
ment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation,
or seduction ;
4. Nor of a matter of account where the sum total of the ac
counts of both parties, proved to the satisfaction of the justice,
shall exceed four hundred dollars ;
5. Nor of an action against an executor or administrator as such.
§ 55. [48.] Answer of Title.
In every action brought in a court of justice of the peace, where
the title to real property shall come in question, the defendant
may, either with or without other matter of defence, set forth in
his answer any matter showing that such title will come in ques
tion. Such answer shall be in writing, signed by the defendant or
his attorney, and delivered to the justice. The justice shall there
upon countersign the same and deliver it to the plaintiff.
§ 56. [49.] Am'd 1851, 1858.) Undertaking to be given.
At the time of answering, the defendant shall deliver to the
justice a written undertaking, executed by at least one sufficient
surety, and approved by the justice, to the effect that if the plain
tiff shall, within twenty days thereafter, deposit with the justice a
summons and complaint in an action in the supreme court for the
same cause, the defendant will, within twenty days after such de
posit, give an admission in writing of the service thereof.
Where the defendant was arrested in the action before the jus
tice, the undertaking shall further provide, that he will, at all times,
render himself amenable to the process of the court during the
pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce
the judgment therein. In case of failure to comply with the under
taking, the surety shall be liable not exceeding one hundred dollars.
§57. [50.] (Am'd 1851, 1858.) Action discontinued. — Costs.
Upon the delivery of the undertaking to the justice, the action
before him shall be discontinued, and each party shall pay his own
costs. The costs so paid by either party shall be allowed to him,
if he recover costs in the action to be brought for the same cause
in the supreme court. If no such action be brought within thirty
days after the delivery of the undertaking, the defendant's costs
before the justice may be recovered of the plaintiff.
§58. [51.] If -undertaking be not given.
If the undertaking be not delivered to the justice, he shall have
jurisdiction of the cause, and shall proceed therein ; and the defend
ant shall be precluded, in his defence, from drawing the title in
question.
§ 59. [52.] (Am'd 1849.) The same.
If, however, it appear on the trial, from the plaintiff's own
showing, that the title to real property is in question, and such
title shall be disputed by the defendant, the justice shall dismiss
the action, and render judgment against the plaintiff for the costs.
§ 60. [53.] (Am'd 1851, 1858.) Another action may be brought.
When a suit before a justice shall be discontinued by the deliv
ery of an answer and undertaking, as provided in sections 55, 56,
and 57, the plaintiff may prosecute an action for the same cause
in the supreme court, and shall complain for the same cause of ac
tion only on which he relied before the justice ; and the answer of
the defendant shall set up the same defence only which he made
before the justice.
§ 61. [54.] (Am'd 1851, 1858.) Costs.
If the judgment in the supreme court be for the plaintiff, he
shall recover costs; if it be for the defendant, he shall recover
costs, except that a verdict he shall pay costs to the plaintiff, un
less the judge certify that the title to real property came in ques
tion on the trial.
§ 62. [55.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1858, 1860.) Answer of title as to
one cause of actum. — Transfer of cases to supreme court.
If, in an action before a justice, the plaintiff have several causes
of action, to one of which the defence of title to real property shall
be interposed, and as to such cause the defendant shall answer and
deliver an undertaking, as provided in sections fifty-five and fifty-
six, the justice shall discontinue the proceedings as to that cause,
and the plaintiff may commence another action therefor in the su
preme court. As to the other causes of action, the justice may
continue his proceedings.
All actions pending in any county court on the seventh day of
May, eighteen hundred and fifty-eight, in all cases in which a plea
of title was interposed in actions originally commenced in a jus
tice's court, are transferred to and vested in the supreme court,
with full power and jurisdiction to proceed therein, as commenced
in said supreme court, by reason of a plea of title having been
interposed in a justice's court in like cases.
§ 63. [56.] (Am'd 1849.) Docketing justices' judgments.
A justice of the peace, on the demand of a party in whose favor
he shall have rendered a judgment, shall give a transcript thereof,
which may be filed and docketed in the office of the clerk of the
county where the judgment was rendered. The time of the receipt
of the transcript by the clerk shall be noted thereon, and entered
in the docket ; and from that time the judgment shall be a judg
ment of the county court. A certified transcript of such judgment
may be filed and docketed in the clerk's office of any other count}-,
and with the like effect, in every respect, as in the county where
the judgment was rendered, except that it shall be a lien only
from the time of filing and docketing the transcript. But no such
judgment for a less sum than twenty-five dollars, exclusive of costs,
hereafter docketed, shall be a lien upon, or enforced against, real
property.
§ 64. [51.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1860.) Rules.
The following rules shall be observed in the courts of justices
of the peace :
1. The pleadings in these courts are—
1. The complaint by the plaintiff;
2. The answer by the defendant.
2. The pleadings may be oral or in writing; if oral, the sub
stance of them shall be entered by the justice in his docket ; if in
writing, they shall be filed by him, and a reference to them shall
be made in the docket.
3. The complaint shall state, in a plain and direct manner, the
facts constituting the cause of action.
4. The answer may contain a denial of the complaint, or of any
part thereof, and also notice, in a plain and direct manner, of any
facts constituting a defence.
5. Pleadings are not required to be in any particular form, but
must be such as to enable a person of common understanding to
know what is intended.
6. Either party may demur to a pleading of his adversary, or
any part thereof, when it is not sufficiently explicit to enable him
to understand it, or it contains no cause of action or defence, al
though it be taken as true.
7. If the court deem the objection well founded, it shall order
the pleading to be amended ; and if the party refuse to amend, the
defective pleading shall be disregarded.
8. In case a defendant does not appear and answer, the plaintiff
cannot recover without proving his case.
9. In an action or defence founded upon an account, or an in
strument for the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient for
a party to deliver the account or instrument to the court, and to
state that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse party, a
specified sum, which he claims to recover or set off.
10. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allega
tions in a pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the
court shall be satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to
his prejudice thereby.
11. The pleadings may be amended at any time before the
trial, or during the trial, or upon appeal, when, by such amendment,
substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made
after the joining of the issue, and it be made to appear to the sat
isfaction of the court, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary
to the adverse party in consequence of such amendment, an ad
journment shall be granted. The court may also, in its discretion,
require, as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to
the adverse party.
12. Execution may be issued on a judgment, heretofore or here
after rendered in a justice's court, at any time within five years
after the rendition thereof, and shall be returnable sixty days from
the date of the same.
13. If the judgment be docketed with the county clerk, the
execution shall be issued by him to the sheriff of the county, and
have the same effect, and be executed in the same manner, as other
executions and judgments of the county court, except as provided
in section 63.
14. The court may, at the joining of issue, require either party,
at the request of the other, at that or some other specified time, to
exhibit Ms account on demand, or state the nature thereof as far
forth as may be in his power, and, in case of his default, preclude
Mm from giving evidence of such parts thereof as shall not have
been so exhibited or stated.
15. The provisions of this act respecting forms of action, par
ties to actions, the rules of evidence, the times of commencing
actions, and the service of process upon corporations, shall apply
to these courts.
The defendant may, on the return of process, and before an
swering, make an offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken
against Mm for an amount, to be stated in such offer, with costs.
The plaintiff shall thereupon, and before any other proceedings
shall be had in the action, determine whether he will accept or
reject such offer. If he accept the offer, and give notice thereof
in writing, the justice shall file the offer and the acceptance there
of, and render judgment accordingly. If notice of acceptance be
not given, and if the plaintiff fail to obtain judgment for a greater
amount, exclusive of costs, than has been specified in the offer, he
shall not recover costs, but shall pay to the defendant his costs
accruing subsequent to the offer.
§ 67. [60.] Jurisdiction.
The justices' courts of cities shall have jurisdiction in the fol
lowing cases, and no other :
1. In actions similar to those in which justices of the peace
have jurisdiction, as provided by sections S3 and 54.
2. In an action upon the charter or by-laws of the corporations
of their respective cities, where the penalty or forfeiture shall not
exceed one hundred dollars.
Chapter IV.
General Provisions.
§ 68. [61.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Sections 55 and 64 applicable to
this title.
The provisions of sections 55 to 64, both inclusive, relating to
forms of action, to pleadings, to the times of commencing actions,
to the rules of evidence, to filing and docketing transcripts of
judgments, to their effect and the mode of enforcing them, and to
proceedings where title to real property shall come in question,
shall apply to the courts embraced in this title, except that, after
the discontinuance of the actions in the inferior court, upon an an
swer of title, the new action may be brought either in the supreme
court, or in any other court having jurisdiction thereof ; and ex
cept, also, that in the city and county of New York, a judgment
for twenty-five dollars or over, exclusive of costs, the transcript
whereof is docketed in the office of the clerk of that county, shall
have the same effect as a lien, and be enforced in the same manner
as, and be deemed a judgment of the court of common pleas for
the city and county of New York. .
TITLE I.
Form of Civil Actions.
Section 69. Distinction between actions at law and suits in equity abolished.
70. Parties, how designated.
71. Actions on judgments.
72. Feigned issues abolished.
§ 69. [62.] (Am'd 1849.) Distinction between actions at law and
suits in equity abolished.
The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity, and
the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore existing, are
abolished ; and there shall be in this State, hereafter, but one form
of action for the enforcement or protection of private rights and
the redress of private wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil
action.
§ 70. [63.] (Am'd 1849.) Parties, how designated.
In such action, the party complaining shall be known as the
plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
§ 71. [64.] Actions on judgments.
No action shall be brought upon a judgment rendered in any
court of this State, except a court of a justice of the peace, between
the same parties, without leave of the court for good cause
shown, on notice to the adverse party ; and no action on a judg
ment rendered by a justice of the peace shall be brought in the
same county within five years after its rendition, except in case of
his death, resignation, incapacity to act, or removal from the
county, or that the process was not personally served on the de
fendant, or on all the defendants, or in case of the death of some
of the parties, or where the docket or record of such judgment is
or shall have been lost or destroyed.
§ 72. [65.] Existing suits. Feigned issues abolished.
Feigned issues are abolished ; and instead thereof, in the cases
where the power now exists to order a feigned issue, or when a
question of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, is to be tried
by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, stating distinctly
and plainly the question of fact to be tried ; and such order shall
be the only authority necessary for a trial.
TITLE II.
Time of commencing civil actions.
Chapter I. Actions generally.
II. For the recovery of real property.
III. Other than for the recovery of real property.
IV. General provisions.
Chapter I.
Time of commencing Actions in general.
Section 13. Repeal of existing limitations.
74. Time for commencing actions, &c
§ 73. [66.] (Am'd 1849.) Repeal of existing limitations.
The provisions contained in the chapter of the revised statutes,
entitled " Of actions and the times of commencing them," are re
pealed, and the provisions of this title are substituted in their
stead. This title shall not extend to actions already commenced,
or to cases where the right of action has already accrued ; but the
statutes now in force shall be applicable to such cases, according to
the subject of the action, and without regard to the form.
§ 74. [67.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Period of limitation, awnctr, *ke.
Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods pre
scribed in this title, after the cause of action shall have accrued,
except where, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed
by statute, and in the cases mentioned in section seventy-three.
But the objection that the action was not commenced within
the time limited, can only be taken by answer.
Chapter II.
Time of commencing Actions for the recovery of Real Property.
Section 75.
76.
77.
ra
7!).
BO.
si.
84.
S5.
Mi.
S7.
88.
When the people will not sue.
When action cannot be brought by grantee from the State.
When actions by the people or their grantees to be brought within
twenty years.
Seizin within twenty years, when necessary.
Seizin within twenty years, when necessary In action or defenco
founded on title, Ac.
Action after entry, or right of entry.
Possession, when presumed. Occupation, when deemed under legal
title.
Occupation under written instrument, Ac
Adverse possession under written instrument, Ac
Premises actually occupied, held adversely.
Adverse possession under claim of title not written.
Relation of landlord- and tenant, as affecting adverse possession.
Descent cast. Effect of.
Pejsons under disability.
§ 75. When the people will not sue.
The people of this State will not sue any person for or in respect
to any real property, or tly issues or profits thereof, by reason of
the right or title of the people to the same, unless,
1. Such right or title shall have accrued within forty years bofore
any action or other proceeding for the same shall be com
menced ; or unless,
4-
2. The people, or those from whom they claim, shall have re
ceived the rents and profits of such real property, or of some part
thereof, within the space of forty years.
§ 76. When action cannot be brought by grantee from the State.
No action shall be brought for, or in respect to, real property,
by any person claiming by virtue of letters patent or grants from
the people of this State, unless the same might have been com
menced by the people, as herein specified, in case such patent or
grant had not been issued or made.
§ *l*l. When actions by the people or their grantees to be brought
within twenty years.
When letters patent or grants of real property shall have been
issued or made by the people of this State, and the same shall be
declared void by the determination of a competent court, rendered
upon an allegation of a fraudulent suggestion, or concealment, or
forfeiture, or mistake, or ignorance of a material fact, or wrongful
detaining, or defective title, in such case an action for the recovery
of the premises so conveyed may be brought either by the people
of this State, or by any subsequent patentee or grantee of the
same premises, his heirs or assigns, within twenty years after such
determination was made, but not after that period.
§ IS. Seizin within twenty years, when necessary.
No action for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery
of the possession thereof, shall be maintained, unless it appear that
the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor or grantor was seized or
possessed of the premises in question within twenty years before
the commencement of such action.
§ 19. Seizin within twenty years, when necessary in action or de
fence founded on title.
No cause of action or defence to an action founded upon the
title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, shall
be effectual, unless it appear that the person prosecuting the action
or making the defence, or under whose title the action is prosecuted
or the defence is made, or the ancestor, predecessor or grantor of
such person was seized or possessed of the premises in question,
within twenty years before the committing of the act in respect to
which such action is prosecuted or defence made.
§ 80. Action after entry or right of entry.
No entry upon real estate shall be deemed sufficient, or valid as
a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon within one year
after the making of such entry, and within twenty years from the
time when the right to make such entry descended or accrued.
§ 81. Possession presumed. Occupation, when deemed under legal
title.
In every action for the recovery of real property, or the posses
sion thereof, the person establishing a legal title to the premises
shall be presumed to have been possessed thereof within the time
required by law; and the occupation of such premises by any
other person shall be deemed to have been under and in subordin
ation to the legal title, unless it appear that such premises have
been held and possessed adversely to such legal title for twenty
years before the commencement of such action.
§ 82. Occupation under written instrument.
Whenever it shall appear that the occupant, or those under
whom he claims, entered into the possession of premises under
claim of title, exclusive of any other right, founding such claim
upon a written instrument, as being a conveyance of the premises
in question, or upon the decree or judgment of a competent court,
and that there has been a continued occupation and possession of
the premises included in such instrument, decree or judgment, or
of some part of such premises, under such claim, for twenty years,
—the premises so included shall be deemed to have been held ad
versely ; except that where the premises so included consist of a
tract divided into lots, the possession of one lot shall not be deemed
a possession of any other lot of the same tract.
§ 83. Adverse possession.
For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by any
person claiming a title founded upon a written instrument or a
judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been possessed
and occupied in the following cases :
1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved ;
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclosure ;
3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the supply
of fuel or of fencing timber, for the purposes of husbandry, or the
ordinary use of the occupant ;
4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly im- ,
proved, the portion of such farm or lot that may have been left not
cleared or not inclosed, according to the usual course and custom
of the adjoining country, shall be deemed to have, been occupied
for the same length of time as the part improved and cultivated. *
§ 84. Premises actually occupied held adversely.
Where it shall appear that there has been an actual continued
occupation of premises, under a claim of title, exclusive of any
other right, but not founded upon a written instrument or a judg
ment or decree, the premises so actually occupied, and no other,
shall be deemed to have been held adversely.
§ 85. Adverse possession under claim not written.
For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession, by a
person claiming title not founded upon a written instrument or a
judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been possessed
and occupied in the following cases only :
1. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclosure ;
2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
§ 86. Relation of landlord and tenant.
Whenever the relation of landlord and tenant shall have existed
between any persons, the possession of the tenant shall be deemed
the possession of the landlord, until the expiration of twenty years
from the termination of the tenancy ; or, where there has been no
written lease, until the expiration of twenty years from the time
of the last payment of rent, notwithstanding that such tenant
may have acquired another title, or may have claimed to hold ad
versely to his landlord. But such presumptions shall not be made
after the periods herein limited.
§ 87. Descent coat.
The right of a person to the possession of any real property
shall not be impaired or affected by a descent being cast in conse
quence of the death of a person in possession of such property.
§ 88. Persons under disabilities.
If a person entitled to commence any action for the recovery
of real property, or to make an entry or defence founded on the
title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, be,
at the time such title shall first descend or accrue, either—
1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or,
2. Insane ; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon con
viction of a criminal offence for a term less than for life ; or,
4. A married woman ;
the time during which such disability shall continue shall not be
deemed any portion of the time in this chapter limited for the
commencement of such action, or the making of such entry or de
fence ; but such action may be commenced, or entry or defence
made, after the period of twenty years, and within ten years after
the disability shall cease, or after the death of the person entitled
who shall die under such disability ; but such action shall not be
commenced, or entry or defence made, after that period. v
Chapter III.
Time of commencing Actions other than for the recovery of Real
Property.
Section 89. Limitation prescribed.
90. Twenty years.
91. Six years.
92. Three years.
98. Two years.
94. One year.
95. Action upon a current account.
96. Action for penalties.
97. Action for other relief.
98. Action by the people.
§ 89. [69.] (Am'd 1849.) Periods of limitatum prescribed.
The periods prescribed in section 11 for the commencement of
actions other than for the recovery of real property shall be as
follows :
§ 90. [70.] (Am'd 1849.) Twenty years.
Within twenty years :
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the
United States, or of any State or Territory within the United
States.
2. An action upon a sealed instrument.
§ 91. [71.] (Am'd 1849.) She. years.
Within six years :
1. An action upon a contract, obligation or liability, express
or implied, excepting those mentioned in section 90.
2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a
penalty or forfeiture.
3. An action for trespass upon real property.
4. An action for taking, detaining or injuring any goods or
chattels, including actions for the specific recovery of personal
property.
5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury
to the person or rights of another, not arising on contract, and not
hereinafter enumerated.
8. An action for relief on the ground of fraud, in cases which
heretofore were solely cognizable by the court of chancery, the
cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued un
til the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting
the fraud. **
§ 92. [72.] (Am'd 1849.) Three years.
Within three years
1. An action against a sheriff, coroner or constable, upon a
liability incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity,
and in virtue of his office, or by the omission of an official duty,
including the non-payment of money collected upon an execution.
But this section shall not apply to an action for an escape.
2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture, where
the action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and
the people of this State, except where the statute imposing it pre
scribes a different limitation.
§ 93. [73.] Two years.
Within two years :
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false im
prisonment, i
2. An action upon a statute, for a forfeiture or penalty to the
people of this State.
§ 94. [74.] One year.
Within one year :
1. An action against a sheriff or other officer, for the escape of
a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.
§ 95. [75.] Am'd 1849.) Action upon a current account.
In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual,
open, and current account, where there have been reciprocal de
mands between the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed to
have accrued from the time of the last item proved in the account
on either side.
§ 96. [76.] Actions for penalties, tlcc
An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture given in
whole or in part to any person who will prosecute for the same,
must be commenced within one year after the commission of the
offence ; and if the action be not commenced within the year by a
private party, it may be commenced within two years thereafter
in behalf of the people of this State, by the attorney-general, or
t lie district attorney of the county where the offence was com-
mitted.
§ 97. [77.] Actions/or other relief.
An action for relief not hereinbefore provided for must be com-
menced within ten years after the cause of action shall have accrued.
§ 98. [78] (Am'd 1849.) Actions by the people.
The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall apply to actions
brought in the name of the* people of this State, or for their bene
fit, in the same manner as to actions by private parties.
§ 99. [79.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) When action deemed commenced.
An action is commenced as to each defendant when the sum
mons is served on him, or on a co-defendant who is a joint con
tractor or otherwise united in interest with him.
An attempt to commence an action is deemed equivalent to the
commencement thereof, within the meaning of this title, when the
summons is delivered, with the intent that it shall be actually
served, to the sheriff or other officer of the county in which the
defendants, or one of them, usually or last resided ; as, if a cor
poration be defendant, to the sheriff or other officer of tne county
in which such corporation was established by law, or where its
general business was transacted, or where it kept an office for the
transaction of business. But such an attempt must be followed
by the first publication of the summons, or the service thereof,
within sixty days.
§ 100. [80.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Exception, defendant out of
State.
If, when the cause of action shall accrue against any person, he
shall be out of the State, such action may be commenced within
the terms herein respectively limited, after the return of such per
son into this State ; and if, after such cause of action shall have
accrued, such person shall depart from and reside out of this State,
the time of his absence shall not be deemed or taken as any part
of the time limited for the commencement of _such action
-4
g 101. [81.] (Am'd 1849, 1S51, 1S5S.) Ezaqtfitms, penxms wafer
disabilities.
If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in the last
chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or
other officer, for an escape, be at the time the cause of action ac
crued, either,
1. Within the age of twenty-one years ; or.
2. Insane ; or.
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge : or. in execution under the
sentence of a criminal court, for a term less than his natural life ; or,
4. A married woman ;
the time of such disability is not a part of the time limited for
the commencement of the action ; except that the period within
which the action must be brought cannot be extended more than
five years by any such disability, except infancy ; nor can it bo so
extended in any case longer than one year after the disability
ceases.
§ 102. [82.] (Am'd 1849.) Death of pet son entitled before limita
tion expires.
If a person entitled to bring an action die before the expiration
of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of
action survive, an action may be commenced by his representatives,
after the expiration of that time, and within one year from his
death. If a person against whom an action may bo brought die
before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may bo com
menced against his executors or administrator after the expiration
of that time, and within one year after the issuing of letters testa
mentary or of administration.
§ 103. [83.] Actions by aliens.
When a person shall be an alien subject or citizen of a country
at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of the
war shall not be part of the period limited for the commencement
of the action.
§ 104. [84.] (Am'd 1863.) Where judgment reversed.
If an action shall be commenced within the time prescribed
therefor, and a judgment therein be reversed on appeal, the plain
tiff, or, if he die and the cause of action survive, his heirs or rep
resentatives, may commence a new action within one year after
the reversal.
§ 105. [85.] (Am'd 1849.) Time of stay by injunction, &c
When the commencement of an action shall be stayed by in
junction or statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of
the injunction or prohibition shall not be part of the time limited
for the commencement of the action.
§ 106. [86.] Disability must exist when right of action accrued.
No person shall avail himself of a disability, unless it existed
when his right of action accrued.
§ 107. [87.] (Am'd 1849.) Where several disabilities, all must be
removed.
When two or more disabilities shall co-exist at the time the
right of action accrues, the limitation shall not attach until they
all be removed.
§ 108. [88.] This title not applicable to bills, &c, of corporations,
or to bank notes.
This title shall not affect actions to enforce the payment of bills,
notes, or other evidences of debt, issued by moneyed corporations,
or issued or put in circulation as money.
§ 109. [89.] (Am'd 1849.) Nor to actions against directors, &c,
of moneyed corporations or banking associations. Limitation in such
cases prescribed.
This title shall not affect actions against directors or stockhold
ers of a moneyed corporation, or banking associations, to recover
a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a liability created by
law ; but such actions must be brought within six years after the
discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts upon which the
penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability was created.
§ 110. [90.] (Am'd 1849.) Acknowledgment or new promise must
be made in writing.
No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient evidence of a
new or continuing contract, whereby to take the case out of the
operation of this title, unless the same be contained in some writing
signed by the party to be charged thereby ; but this section shall
not alter the effect of any payment of principal or .interest.
TITLE III.
Parties to Civil Actions.
Section 111. Party in interest to sue. Action by grantee of land held ad
versely.
112. Assignment of thing in action.
113. Actions by executor, trustee, Ac
114. Actions by and against married women.
115. Infants, actions by and against.
116. Guardian, how appointed.
117. Who may be plaintiffs.
US. Who may be defendants.
11 6. One or more may sue or defend for all.
120. One action against the different parties to bills and notes.
121. Action when not to abate.
122. Court to decide controversy, Ac Interpleading.
§ 111. [91.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1862.) Action to be by party in
interest. Action by grantee of land held adversely.
Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party
in interest, except as otherwise provided in section one hundred
and thirteen ; but this section shall not be deemed to authorize the
assignment of a thing in action not arising out of contract.
But an action may be maintained by a grantee of land in the
name of a grantor, when the grant or grants are void by reason of
the actual possession of a person claiming under a title adverse to
that of the grantor at the time of the delivery of the grant, and
the plaintiff shall be allowed to prove the facts to bring the case
within this provision.
§ 112. [92.] (Am'd 1849.) Assignment of thing in action.
In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by
the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other de
fence existing at the time of, or before notice of, the assignment ;
but this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note or
bill of exchange, transferred in good faith, and upon good con
sideration, before due.
§ 113. [93.] (Am'd 1851.) Action by executor, trustee, &c.
An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or
a person expressly authorized by statute7may sue, without joining
with him the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A
trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this section,
shall be construed to include a person with whom or in whose
name a contract is made for the benefit of another.
§ 114. [94.] (Am'd 1851, IBS?.) Action by and against a married
woman.
When a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined
with her, except that,
1. When the action concerns her separate property, she may
sue alone ; •■ vx ,/*•.* 5 {,%. »-€**s''*" 4t- .
2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she
may sue or be sued alone. *
And in no case need she prosecute or defend by a guardian or
next friend.
§ 115. [95.] (Am'd 1849.) Infant to appear by guardian.
When an infant is a party, he must appear by guardian, who
may be appointed by the court in which the action is prosecuted,
or by a judge thereof, or a county judge. - j
§ 116. [96.] (Am'd 1881, 1852, 1862, 1863.) Appointment of
The guardian shall be appointed as follows :
1. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the in
fant, if he be of the age of fourteen years ; or if under that age,
upon the application of his general or testamentary guardian, if
he has any, or of a relative or friend of the infant. If made by a
relative or friend of the infant, notice thereof must first be given to
such guardian, if he has one ; if he has none, then to the person
with whom such infant resides.
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within
twenty days after service of the summons. If he be under the
age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon the application
of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the
infant, after notice of such application being first given to the gen
eral or testamentary guardian of such infant, if he has one within
this State ; if he has none, then to the infant himself, if over four
teen years of age, and within the State ; or if under that age, and
within the State, to the person with whom such infant resides.
And in actions for the partition of real property, or for the
foreclosure of a mortgage or other instrument, when an infant de
fendant resides out of this State, the plaintiff may apply to the
court in which the action is pending, at any special term thereof,
and will be entitled to an order designating some suitable person
to be the guardian for the infant defendant, for the purposes of the
action, unless the infant defendant, or some one in his behalf, within
a number of days after the service of a copy of the order, which
number of days shall be in the said order specified, shall procure
to be appointed a guardian for the said infant ; and the court shall
give special directions in the order for the manner of the service
thereof, which may be upon the infant himself, or by service upon
any relation or person with whom the infant resides, and either by
mail or personally upon the person so served.
And in case an infant defendant, having an interest in the event
of the action, shall reside in any State with which there shall not
be a regular communication by mail, on such fact satisfactorily
appearing to the court, the court may appoint a guardian ad litem,
for such absent infant party, for the purpose of protecting the right
of such infant in said action, and on such guardian ad litem, pro
cess, pleadings and notices in the action may be served, in the like
manner as upon a party residing in this State.
§ 117. [91.] Who to beplaintiffs.
All persons having an interest in the subject of the action, and
in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs, ex
cept as otherwise provided in this title.
§ 118. [98.] (Am'd 1849.) Who to be defendant.
Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims an in
terest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a neces
sary party to a complete determination or settlement of the ques
tions involved therein. /
§ 119. [99.] (Am'd 1849.) Parties to be joined, &c
Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest
must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants ; but if the consent of
any one who should have been joined as plaintiff cannot be ob
tained, he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being
stated in the complaint ; and when the question is one of a com
mon or general interest of many persons, or when the parties are
very numerous and it may be impracticable to bring them all be
fore the court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the
whole.
§ 120. [100.] Parties to bills and notes, &e.
Persona severally liable upon the same obligation or instru-
notes, may all, or any of them, be included in the same action, at
the option of the plaintiff.
§ 121. [101.] (Am'd 1849, 1857, 1862.) Existing suits. Action
wlhen not to abate.
No action shall abate by the death, marriage, or other disability
of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause
of action survive or continue. In case of death, marriage, or other
disability of a party, the court, on motion, at any time within one
year thereafter, or afterwards on a supplemental complaint, may
allow the action to be continued by or against his representative
or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of interest,
the action shall be continued in the name of the original party, or
the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be
substituted in the action.
After a verdict shall be rendered in any action for a wrong,
such action shall not abate by the death of any party, but the case
shall proceed thereafter in the same manner as in cases where the
cause of action now survives by law.
At any time after the death, marriage, or other disability of the
party plaintiff, the court in which an action is pending, upon no
tice to such persons as it may direct, and upon application of any
person aggrieved, may, in its discretion, order that the action be
deemed abated, unless the same be continued by the proper par-
ties, within a time to be fixed by the court, not less than six
months nor exceeding one year from the granting of the order.
g 122. [102.] (Am'd 1849, 1S51.) Court may determine contro
versy, dx. Interpleader.
The court may determine any controversy between the parties
before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of
others, or by saving their rights ; but when a complete determina
tion of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other
parties, the court must cause them to be brought in. And when, in
an action for the recovery of real or personal property, a person
not a party to the action, but having an interest in the subject
thereof, makes application to the court to be made a party, it may
order him to be brought in by the proper amendment.
A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a contract^
or for specific, real, or personal property, may at any time beforep
answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the action, anoT
without collusion with him, makes against him a demand for the"
same debt or property, upon due notice to such person and the ad-f
verse party, apply to the court for an order to substitute such per
son in his place, and discharge him from liability to either party,
on his depositing in court the amount of the debt, or delivering the
property or its value to such person as the court may direct ; andthe
court may, in its discretion, make the order.
TITLE IV.
Of the Place of Trial of Civil Actions.
Section 123. Actions to be tried where subject-matter situated.
124. Actions to be tried where cause of action arose.
125. Actions to be tried where the parties reside.
126. Changing place of trial.
§ 123. [103.] (Am'd 1849.) Actions to be tried where snljectmatter
situated.
Actions for the following causes must bo tried in the county in
which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated,
subject to the power of the court to change the place of trial, in
the cases provided by statute :
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest
therein, or for the determination in any form of such right or in
terest, and for injuries to real property ;
2. For the partition of real property ;
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property ;
4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any
§ 124. [104.] (Am'd 1849.) Actions to be tried where cause of
action arose.
Actions for the following causes must be tried in the county
where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the like
power of the court to change the place of trial, in the cases pro
vided by statute :
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by stat
ute, except that, when it is imposed for an offence committed on a
lake, river, or other stream of water, situated in two or more
counties, the action may be brought in any county bordering on
such lake, river, or stream, and opposite to the place where the
offence was committed ;
2. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed to
execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office,
or against a person who, by his command or in his aid, shall do
anything touching the duties of such officer. •
§125. [105.] Action to be tried where parties reside.
In all other cases the action shall be tried in the county in
which the parties, or any of them, shall reside at the commence
ment of the action ; or, if none of the parties shall reside in the
State, the same may be tried in any county which the plaintiff
shall designate in his complaint, subject, however, to the power
of the court to change the place of trial, in the cases provided by
statute.
§126. [105.] (Am'd 1851.) Change of place of trial.
If the county designated for that purpose in the complaint be
not the proper county, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried
therein, unless the defendant, before the time for answering ex
pire, demand in writing that the trial be had in the proper county,
and the place of trial be thereupon changed by consent of parties,
or by order of the court, as is provided in this section.
The court may change the place of trial in the following cases :
1. When the county designated for that purpose in the com
plaint is not the proper county ;
2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial can
not be had therein ;
3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice
would be promoted by the change.
When the place of trial is changed, all other proceedings shall
be had in the county to which the place of trial is changed, unless
otherwise provided by the consent of the parties, in writing, duly
filed, or order of the court ; and the papers shall be filed or trans
ferred accordingly.
TITLE V.
Manner of Commencing Civil Actions.
Section 127. Actions, how commenced.
128. Summons, requisites of.
129. Notice to be inserted in summons.
130. Complaint need not be served with summons.
131. Defendant unreasonably defending.
132. Notice of lis pendens.
133. Service of summons.
134. Return of summons.
135. Publication of summons.
186. Proceedings when part only of defendants served.
137. When service by publication complete.
188. Proof of service.
139. When jurisdiction of action acquired.
§ 121. [106.] Actions, how commenced.
Civil actions in the courts of record of this State shall be com
menced by the service of a summons.
§ 128. [107.] Summons, requisites of. *
The summons shall be subscribed by the plaintiff or his attor
ney, and directed to the defendant, and shall require him to answer
the complaint, and serve a copy of his answer on the person whose
name is subscribed to the summons, at a place within the State, to
be therein specified, in which there is a post-office, within twenty
days after the service of the summons, exclusive of the day of
service.
§ 129. [108.] (Am'd 1849.) Notice to be inserted in summons.
The plaintiff shall also insert in the summons a notice, in sub
stance as follows :
1. In an action arising on contract, for the recovery of money
only, that he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the
v defendant fail to answer the complaint, in twenty days after the
1 service of the summons.
2. In other actions, that if the defendant shall fail to answer
'the complaint within twenty days after service of the summons,
' the plaintiff will apply to the court for the relief demanded in the
complaint.
§ 130. [109.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Service of complaint.
A copy of the complaint need not be served with the summons.
In such case, the summons must state where the complaint is or
will be filed ; and if the defendant, within twenty days thereafter,
causes notice of appearance to be given, and, in person or by at
torney, demands, in writing, a copy of the complaint, specifying a
place within the State where it may be served, a copy thereof
must, within twenty days thereafter, be served accordingly ; and
after such service, the defendant has twenty days to answer ; but
only one copy need be served on the same attorney.
§131. [110.] (Am'd 1851.) Notice of no personal claim.
In the case of a defendant against whom no personal claim is
made, the plaintiff may deliver to such defendant, with the sum
mons, a notice subscribed by the plaintiff or his attorney, setting
forth the general object of the action, a brief description of the
property affected by it, if it affects specific real or personal prop
erty, and that no personal claim is made against such defendant,
in which case no copy of the complaint need be served on such
defendant, unless within the time for answering he shall, in writ
ing, demand the same. If a defendant on whom such notice is
served unreasonably defend the action, he shall pay costs to the
plaintiff.
§ 132. [111.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1857, 1858, 1862.) Notice of
lis pendens.
In an action affecting the title to real property, the plaintiff, at
the time of filing the complaint, or at any time afterwards, or when
ever a warrant of attachment, under chapter four of title seven,
part second, of this Code, shall be issued, or at any time afterwards,
plaintiffinif the same be intended to affect real estate, may file
the clerk of each county in which the property is situated, a
notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the
parties, the object of the action, and the description of the property
in that county affected thereby ; and if the action be for the fore
closure of a mortgage, such notice must be filed twenty days before
judgment, and must contain the date of the mortgage, the parties
thereto, and the time and place of recording the same. From the
time of filing only shall the pendency of the action be constructive
notice to a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property affected
thereby; and every person whose conveyance or incumbrance is
subsequently executed or subsequently recorded, shall be deemed a
subsequent purchaser or incumbrancer, and shall be bound by all
proceedings taken after the filing of such notice, to the same extent
as if he were made a party to the action.
For the purposes of this section an action shall be deemed to be
pending from the time of the filing of such notice ; provided, how
ever, that such notice shall be of no avail, unless it shall be followed
by the first publication of the summons on an order therefor, or by
the personal service thereof on a defendant within sixty days after
such filing.
And the court in which the said action is pending may, in its
discretion, at any time after the action shall have become abated,
as is provided in section number one hundred and twenty-one, on
good cause shown, and on application of any party aggrieved, after
the action shall have become abated, as is provided in section one
hundred and twenty-one, direct the notice authorized by this sec
tion to be removed from record by the clerk of any county in
whose office the same may have been filed.
§133. [112.] Summons, by whom, nerved.
The summons may be served by the sheriff of the county where
the defendant may be found, or by any other person not a party to
the action. The service shall be made, and the summons returned
with proof of the service to the person whose name is subscribed
thereto, with all reasonable diligence. The person subscribing the
summons may, at his option, by an endorsement on the summons,
fix a time for the service thereof, and the service shall then be
made accordingly.
§ 134. [113.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1859.) Service of summons.
The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof as
follows :
1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or other
head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer, a director, or
managing agent thereof ; but such service can be made in respect
to a foreign corporation only when it has property within this
State, or the cause of action arose therein, or where such service
shall be made within this State personally upon the president,
treasurer, or secretary thereof.
2. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian ; or,
if there be none within the State, then to any person having the
care and control of such minor, or with whom he shall reside, or
in whose service he shall be employed.
3. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind,
or incapable of conducting his own affairs in consequence of habit
ual drunkenness, and for whom a committee has been appointed, to
such committee and to the defendant personally.
4. In all other cases, to the defendant personally. .. l_
i '. ; - . . . P * '
I Service by j§ 135. [114.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1858, 1860.) Service by publi
cation. ^
Where the person on whom the service of the summons is to be
made cannot, after due diligence, be found within the State, and
that fact appears by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court or a
judge thereof, or of the county judge of the county where the trial
is to be had, and it in like manner appears that a cause of action
exists against the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be
made, or that he is a proper party to an action relating to real
property in this State, such court or judge may grant an order that
the service be made by the publication of a summons in either of
the following cases :
1. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, has property
within the state, or the cause of action arose therein ;
2. Where the defendant, being a resident of this State, has de
parted therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid
the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with
the like intent ;
3. Where he is not a resident of this State, but has property
therein, and the court has jurisdiction of the subject of the
action ;
4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal property
in this State, and the defendant has or claims a lien or interest,
actual or contingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists
wholly or partly in excluding the defendant from any interest or
lien therein ;
5. Where the action is for divorce, in the cases prescribed by
law.
The order must direct the publication to be made in two news
papers to be designated as most likely to give notice to the person
to be served, and for such length of time as may be deemed reason
able, not less than once a week for six weeks. In case of publica
tion, the court or judge must also direct a copy of the summons
and complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post-office, directed
to the person to be served, at his place of residence, unless it ap
pear that sucli residence is neither known to the party making the
application, nor can with reasonable diligence be ascertained by
him. When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of
the summons and complaint, out of the State, is equivalent to pub
lication and deposit in the post-office.
The defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his rep
resentatives, on application and sufficient cause shown at any time
before judgment, must be allowed to defend the action ; and, ex
cept in an action for divorce, the defendant against whom publi
cation is ordered, or his representatives, may, in like manner, upon
good cause shown, be allowed to defend after judgment, or at any
time within one year after notice thereof, and within seven years
after its rendition, on such terms as may be just ; and if the de
fence be successful, and the judgment or any part thereof have
been collected, or otherwise enforoed, such restitution may there
upon be compelled as the court directs ; but the title to property
sold under such judgment to a purchaser in good faith shall not be
thereby affected. And in all cases where publication is made, the
complaint must be first filed, and the summons, as published, must
state the time and place of such filing.
In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate, al
ready instituted, or hereafter to be instituted, if any party or par
ties having any interest in or Hen upon such mortgaged premises
are unknown to the plaintiff, and the residence of such party or
parties cannot, with reasonable diligence, be ascertained by him,
and such fact shall be made to appear, by affidavit, to the court, or
to a justice thereof, or to the county judge of the county where the
^rial is to be had, such court, justice, or county judge may grant
an order that the summons be served on such unknown party or
parties by publishing the same for six weeks, once in each week
successively, in the State paper, and in a newspaper printed in the
county where the premises are situated, which publication shall be
equivalent to a personal service on such unknown party or parties.
§ 136. [115.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Joint and several debtors.
Where the action is against two or more defendants, and the
summons is served on one or more, but not on all of them, the
plaintiff may proceed as follows:
1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon
contract, he may proceed against the defendant served, unless the
court otherwise direct ; and if he recover judgment, it may be en
tered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only
as that it may be enforced against the joint property of all, and
the separate property of the defendants served, and if they are
subject to arrest, against the persons of the defendants served ;
or,
2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may
proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as if
they were the only defendants.
3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may bo
taken against any or either of them severally, when the plaintiff
would be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defendants,
if the action had been against them, or any of them alone.
§137. [116.] When service complete.
In the cases mentioned in section 135, the service of the sum
mons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time pre
scribed by the order for publication.
§ 138. [117.] (Am'd 1851.) Proof of service.
Proof of the service of the summons, and of the complaint or
notice, if any, accompanying the same, must be as follows :
1. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof; or,
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his ^
foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same, and an affidavit of a
a deposit of a copy of the summons in the post-office, as required
by law, if the same shall have been deposited ; or,
4. The written admission of the defendant.
In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certifi- ^
cate, affidavit or admission must state the time and place of the
service.
§ 139. (Am'd 1851.) Jurisdiction. Appearance.
From the time of the service of the summons in a civil action,
or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the court is deemed to
have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subse
quent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of a defendant is
equivalent to personal service of the summons upon him.
Chapter I.
The Complaint.
Section 140. Forms of pleading.
141. Complaint.
142. Complaint, what to contain.
§ 140. [118.] (Am'd 1849, 1852.) Forms of Pleading.
All the forms of pleading heretofore existing are abolished ;
and, hereafter, the forms of pleading in civil actions in courts of
record, and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings is
to be determined, are those prescribed by this act.
§ 141. [119.]
The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is the com
plaint.
§ 142. [120.] (Am'd 1851.) Complaint, what to contain.
The complaint shall contain:
^ 1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in
which the action is brought, the name of the county in which the
plaintiff desires the trial to be had, and the names of the parties to
the action, plaintiff and defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting a
cause of action, without unnecessary repetition.
3. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff supposes him
self entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount
thereof shall be stated.
§ 143. [121.] Defendant to demur or answer.
The only pleading on the part of the defendant is either a de
murrer or an answer. It must be served within twenty days after
the service of the copy of the complaint.
§144. [122.] When defendant may demur.
The defendant may demur to the complaint when it shall ap
pear upon the face thereof, either—
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the de
fendant, or the subject of the action ; or,
2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue ; or,
3. That there is another action pending between the sanio par
ties, for the same cause ; or,
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant ; or,
5. That several causes of action have been improperly united ;
or, **» V \T\
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to consti-
tute a cause of action.
§ 145. [123.] (Am'd *849.) Demurrer must specify grounds of
objection.
The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objection
to the complaint. Unless it do so, it may be disregarded. It may
be taken to the whole complaint, or to any of the alleged causes of
action stated therein.
146. [125.] (Am'd 1849.) How to proceed if complaint be
amended.
If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof must be servod on
the defendant, who must answer it within twenty days, or the
plaintiff, upon filing with the clerk on [due] proof of the service,
and of the defendant's omission, may proceed to obtain judgment,
as provided by section 246 : but where an application to the court
for judgment is necessary, eight days' notice thereof must be given
to the defendant.
§147. [126.] Objection not appearing on complaint.
When any of the matters enumerated in section 144 do not ap
pear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken
by answer.
§148. [128.] (Am'd 1849.) Objection, when deemed waived.
If no such objection be taken either by demurrer or answer, the
defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting
only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objec
tion that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause, of action.
Chapter 111. i
The Answer.
SKUTroN 149. Answer, what to contain.
150. Counter-claim. Several defences.
151. Demurrer and answer, when allotted.
152. Sham and irrelevant defences to be stricken out.
§ 149. [128.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852.) Answer, what to contain.
The answer of the defendant must contain —
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of
the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge
or information thereof sufficient to form a belief ;
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defence or
claim, in ordinary and concise language, without repeti
tion.
§ 150. [129.] (Am'd 1849, 1852.) Counter-claim. Several de
fences.
The counter-claim mentioned in the last section must be one
existing in favor of a defendant, and against a plaintiff, between
whom a several judgment might he had in the action, and arising
out of one of the following causes of action :
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction I
set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintiff's claim,
or connected with the subject of the action ;
2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action
arising also on contract, and existing at the commencement of the
action.
The defendant may set forth by answer as many defences and
counter-claims as he may have, whether they be such as have been
heretofore Renominated legal or equitable, or both. They must
each be separately stated, and refer to the causes of action which
they are intended to answer, in such manner that they may be in
telligibly distinguished.
§ 151. Demurrer and answer.
The defendant may demur to one or more of several causes of
action stated in the complaint, and answer the residue.
§ 152. (Am'd 1851.) Sham and irrelevant defences.
Sham and irrelevant answers and defences may be stricken out
motion, and upon such terms as the court may in their discretion
impose.
Section 153.
154.
l.Vs.
Chapter IV.
The Reply.
lteply. Demurrer to answer.
Motion for judgment upon answer.
Demurrer to reply.
/,,•
§ 153. [181.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1855, 1857, 1860.) Reply.
Demurrer to answer.
When the answer contains new matter constituting a counter
claim, the plaintiff may, within twenty days, reply to such new
matter, denying generally or . specifically each allegation contro
verted by him, or any knowledge or information thereof sufficient
to form a belief ; and he may allege, in ordinary and concise lan
guage, without repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with
the complaint, constituting a defence to such new matter in the
answer ; and the plaintiff may in all cases demur to an answer
containing new matter, where, upon its face, it does not constitute
a counter-claim or defence ; and the plaintiff may demur to one or
more of such defences or counter-claims, and reply to the residue
of the counter-claims.
And in other cases, when an answer contains new matter con
stituting a defence by way of avoidance, the court may, in its dis
cretion, on the defendant's motion, require a reply to such new
matter ; and in that case, the reply shall be subject to the same
rules as a reply to a counter-claim. »
§ 154. (Am'd 1863.) Motion for judgment on answer.
If the answer contain a statement of new matter constituting a
counter-claim, and the plaintiff fail to reply or demur thereto
within the time prescribed by law, the defendant may move, on a
notice of not less than ten days, for such judgment as he is entitled
to upon such statement, and if the case require it, a writ of inquiry
of damages may be issued.
§ 155. Demurrer to reply.
If a reply of the plaintiff to any defence set up by the answer
of the defendant be insufficient, the defendant may demur thereto,
and shall state the grounds thereof.
Chatter V.
General Rules of Pleading.
Suction 156. Pleadings to be subscribed and verified.
157. Pleadings, how verified.
15S. How to state an account in pleading.
159. Pleadings to be liberally construed.
160. Irrelevant or redundant matter to be stricken out, and indefinite
matter made more definite.
161. Judgments, bow to be pleaded.
162. Conditions precedent, how to be pleaded.
163. Private statutes, how to be pleaded.
164. Libel and slander, how stated in complaint.
165. Answer in such cases.
166. Answer in actions to recover property distrained for damage.
167. What causes of action may be joined.
16'. Allegation not denied, when to be deemed true.
§ 156. [133.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Pleadings to be subscribed and
verified.
Every pleading in a court of record must be subscribed by the
party or his attorney : and when any pleading is verified, every
subsequent pleading, except a demurrer, most be verified also.
§ 15V. [133.] (im'd 1849, 185L) Fttuiutgt, how nrjtHL
The verification must be to the effect that the same is true to
the knowledge of the person making it, except as to those matters
stated on information and belief, and. as to those matters, he believes
it to be true, and must be by the affidavit of the party, or if there
be several parties united in interest, and pleading together, by
one at least of such parties acquainted with the facts, if such party
be within the county where the attorney resides, and capable of
making the affidavit. The affidavit may also be made by the agent
or attorney, if the action or defence be founded upon a written
instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument,
be in the possession of the agent or attorney, or if all the material
allegations of the pleading be within the personal knowledge of
the agent or attorney. When the pleading is verified by any other
person than the party, he shall set forth in the affidavit his knowl
edge, or the grounds of his belief on the subject, and the reasons
why it is not made by the party. TA hen a corporation is a party .
the verification may be made by any officer thereof ; and when the
State, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is a party, the verifica
tion may be made by any person acquainted with the facts. The
verification may be omitted when an admission of the truth of the
allegation might subject the party to prosecution for felony. Ami
no pleading can be used in a criminal prosecution against the
party, as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading.
§ 158. [135.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Item* of account. Partimlars.
It shall not be necessary for n party to set forth in a pleading
the items of an account therein alleged: but he shall deliver to
the adverse party, within ten days after a demand thereof in
writing, a copy of the account, which, if the pleading is verified,
must be verified by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney,
if within the personal knowledge of such agent or attorney, to the
effect that he believes it to be true, or bo precluded from giving
evidence thereof. The court, or a judge thereof, or a county judge
may order a " further account," when the one delivered is de
tire ; and the court may in all cases order a bill of particulars of
the claim of either party to be furnished.
§ 159. [136.] Pleadings, how construed.
In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining
its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view of
substantial justice between the parties.
§ 160. [137.] (Am'd 1849.) Irrelevant or redundant. Indefinite
or uncertain.
If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it
may be stricken out, on motion of any person aggrieved thereby.
And when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncer
tain that the precise nature of the charge or defence is not ap
parent, the court may require the pleading to be made definite and
certain by amendment.
§ 161. [138.] Judgments, Iww to be pleaded.
In pleading a judgment, or other determination of a court or
officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination
may be stated to have been duly given or made. If such allega
tion be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish,
on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.
§ 162. [139.] (Am'd 1851.) Conditions precedent, how to be
pleaded. Instrument for payment of money only.
In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a con
tract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such per
formance ; but it may be stated generally that the party duly per
formed all the conditions on his part ; and if such allegation be
controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish, on the
trial, the facts showing such performance. In an action or defence
founded upon an instrument for the payment of money only, it
shall be sufficient for a party to give a copy of the instrument, and
to state that there is due to him thereon from the adverse party a
specified sum, which he claims. *
'
§ 163. [140.] Private statutes, how to be pleaded.
In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it
shall be sufficient to refer to such statute, by its title and the day
of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice
thereof.
§ 164. [141.] label and slander, how stated in complaint.
In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to
state, in the complaint, any extrinsic facts, for the purpose of show
ing the application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter out of
which the cause of action arose ; but it shall be sufficient to state
generally that the same was published or spoken concerning the
plaintiff ; and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintiff shall
be bound to establish, on trial, that it was so published or spoken.
§ 165. [142.] (Am'd 1849.) Answer in such cases.
In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may,
in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as de
famatory and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the amount
of damages ; and whether he prove the justification or not, he may
give, in evidence, the mitigating circumstances.
§ 166. In actions to recover property distrained for damage, an
swer need not set forth title.
In an action to recover the possession of property distrained
doing damage, an answer, that the defendant, or person by whose
command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property
upon which the distress was made, and that the property distrained
was at the time doing damage thereon, shall be good, without set
ting forth the title to such real property.
§ W1. [143.] (Am'd 1849, 1852, 1863.) What causes of action
may be joined in the same complaint.
The plaintiff may unite in the same complaint several causes
of action, whether they be such as have been heretofore denom
inated legal or equitable, or both, where they all arise out of,
1. The same transaction, or transactions connected with the
same subject of action ;
2. Contract, express or implied ; or
3. Injuries, with or without force, to person and property, or
either ; or
4. Injuries to character ; or
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages
for the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same ;
or
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without dam
ages for the withholding thereof; or
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by oper
ation of law.
But the causes of action, so united, must all belong to one of
these classes, and, except in actions for the foreclosure of mortgages,
must affect all the parties to the action, and not require differ
ent places of trial, and must be separately stated. In actions to
foreclose mortgages the court shall have power to adjudge and
direct the payment, by the mortgagor, of any residue of the mort
gage debt that may remain unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged
premises, in cases in which the mortgagor shall be personally lia
ble for the debt secured by such mortgage ; and if the mortgage
debt be secured by the covenant or obligation of any person other
than the mortgagor, the plaintiff may make such person a party
to the action, and the court may adjudge payment of the residue
of such debt remaining unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged
premises against such other person, and may enforce such judg
ment as in other cases.
§ 168. [144.] (Am'd 1849, 1852.) "Allegation not denied, when to
be deemed true.
Every material allegation of the complaint, not controverted
by the answer, as prescribed in section 149, and every material
allegation of new matter in the answer, constituting a counter
claim, not controverted by the reply, as prescribed in section 153,
shall, for purposes of the action, be taken as true. But the alle
gation of new matter in the answer, not relating to a counter-claim,
or of new matter in a reply, is to be deemed controverted by the
adverse party as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case
may require.
§ 169. [145.] (Ani'd 1849.) Existing suits—Material variance.
No variance between the allegation in a pleading and tlui proof
shall be deemed material, unless it have actually misled the ad
verse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense,
upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged that a party has
been so misled, that fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of the
court, and in what respect he has been misled ; and thereupon the
court may order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as
shall be just.
§ 170. [146.] Existing suits—Immaterial variance.
Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last sec
tion, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the
evidence, or may order an immediate amendment without costs.
§171. [147.] Existing suits—Failure of Proof.
Where, however, the allegation of the cause of action or defense
to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some particular
or particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it shall
not be deemed a case of variance, within the last two sections, hut
a failure of proof.
§ 172. [148.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1859.) Existing suits—Amend
merits of course and after allowance of demurrer.
Any pleading may be once amended by the party of course,
without costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings already
had, at any time within twenty days after it is served, or at any
time before the period for answering it expires ; or it can be so
amended at any time within twenty days after the service of the
answer or demurrer to such pleading, unless it be made to appear
to the court that it was done for the purposes of delay, and the
plaintiff or defendant will thereby lose the benefit of a circuit or
term for which the cause is or may be noticed ; and if it appear to
the court that such amendment was made for such purpose, the
same may be stricken out, and such terms imposed as to the court
may seem just. In such case a copy of the amended pleading
must be served on the adverse party. After the decision of a de
murrer, either at a general or special term, the court may, in its
discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was interposed in good
faith, allow the party to plead over upon such terms as may be
just. If the demurrer be allowed for the cause mentioned in the
fifth subdivision of section 144, the court may, in its discretion,
and upon such terms as may be just, order the action to be divided
into as many actions as may be necessary to the proper determin
ation of the causes of action therein mentioned.
§ 173. [149,] (Am'd 1849, 1861, 1852.) Existing mits—Amend
ment by order.
The court may, before or after judgment, in furtherance of jus
tice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading,
process or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of
any party ; or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or
a mistake in any other respect ; or by inserting other allegations
material to the case ; or, when the amendment does not change
substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the pleading or
proceeding to the facts proved.
§ 174. [149.] (Am'd 1851.) Existing suits—Relief in case of
mistake.
The court may likewise, in its discretion, and upon such terms
as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be made, or other act
to be clone, after the time limited by this act, or, by an order,
enlarge such time ; and may also, in its discretion, and upon such
terms as may be just, at any time within one year after notice
thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order or other proceed-
ing, taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect, and may supply an omission in any pro
ceeding ; and whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails to
conform in any respect to the provisions of this code, the court
may, in like manner, and upon like terms, permit an amendment
of such proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto.
§ 176. [150.] Existing suits—Fictitious name.
When the plaintiif shall be ignorant of the name of a defendant,
such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding,
by any name ; and when his true name shall be discovered, the
pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.
§ 176. [151.] Existing suits — Errors or defects to be disre
garded.
The court shall, in every stage of action, disregard any error
or defect in the pleadings or proceedings, which shall not affect
the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment
shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.
§ 177. [152.] (Am'd 1849.) Supplemental pleading.
The plaintiff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed, on
motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer, or reply, alleg
ing facts material to the case, occurring after the former com
plaint, answer, or reply, or of which the party was ignorant when
his former pleading was made.
k
§ 178. [153.] No person to be arrested, except as prescribed.
No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed
by this act ; but this provision shall not affect the act to abolish
imprisonment for debt, and to punish fraudulent debtors, passed
April 26, 1831, or any act amending the same, nor shall it apply
to proceedings for contempt.
:
§ 179. [154.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1863.) In what cases.
The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter prescribed, in
the following cases :
1-In/an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of ac
tion mm arising out of contract, where the defendant is not a resident
of the State, or is about to remove therefrom, or where the-
action is for an injury to person or character, or for injuring, or for
wrongfully taking, detaining or converting property.*
2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or on a promise to marry,
or for money received, or for property embezzled or fraudulently^
isapplied, by a public officer, t)r by an attorney, solicitor or
counselor, or by an officer or agent of a corporation or banking
association, in the course of his employment as such, or by any
factor, agent, broker or other person in a fiduciary capacity, or
for any misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professional em
ployment.
3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property
unjustly detained, where the property or any part thereof hai
been concealed, removed or disposed of, so that it cannot be found
or taken by the sheriff, and with the intent that it should not be
bo found or taken, or with the intent to deprive the plaintiff of the
benefit thereof.
4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contract
ing the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is
brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property for the
taking, detention or conversion of which the action is brought, or
when the action is brought to recover damages for fraud or deceit.
5. "When the defendant has removed or disposed of his prop
erty, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
But no female shall be arrested in any action, except for a will
ful injury to person, character or property.
§ 180. [155.] Order for arrest, by whom made.
An order for the arrest of the defendant must be obtained
from a judge of the court in which the action is brought, or from
a county judge.
--I
as_
id
oe
§ 181. [156.] (Am'd 1849.) Affidavit to obtain order. To what
actions thin chapter applies.
The order may be made where It shall appear to the judge, by
the affidavit of the plaintiff or of any other person, that a sufficient
cause of action exists, and that the ease is one of those mentioned
in section 179.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all actions included
within the provisions of section 179, which shall have been com
menced since the thirtieth day of June, 1848, and in which judg
ment shall not have been obtained.
§ 182. [157.] Security by plaintiff before order of arrest.
Before making the order, the judge shall require a written un
dertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with or without sureties, to
the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintiff will
pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all dam
ages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding
the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least one
hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed by the plaintiff,
without sureties, he shall annex thereto an affidavit that he is a
resident and householder or freeholder within the State, and worth
double the sum specified in the undertaking, over all his debts and
liabilities.
§183. [158.] (Am'd 1849., 1862.) Order, when made, and its
form.
The order may be made to accompany the summons, or at any
time afterwards before judgment. It shall require the sheriff of
the county where the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest
him and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and return the
order, at a place and time therein mentioned, to the plaintiff, or
attorney by whom it shall be subscribed or indorsed.
But said order of arrest shall bo of no avail, and shall be va
cated or set aside on motion, unless the same is served upon the
defendant, as provided by law, before the docketing of any judg
ment in the action ; and the defendant shall have twenty days,
after the service of the order of arrest, in which to answer the
complaint in the action, and to move to vacate the order of arrest,
or to reduce the amount of bail.
§ 184. [159.] Affidavit and order to be delivered to sheriff, and
copy to defendant.
The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to the sher
iff, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to him a copy
thereof.
§ 185. [160.] Arrest, how made.
The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the defendant,
and keeping him in custody until discharged by law ; and may call
the power of the country to his aid in the execution of the arrest,
as in case of process.
§ 186. [161.] Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.
The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be discharged
from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon depositing the
amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this chap
ter.
§ 187. [162.] Bail, how given.
The defendant may give bail, by causing a written undertaking
to be executed by two or more sufficient bail, stating their places
of residence and occupations, to the effect that the defendant shall
at all times render himself amenable to the process of the court,
during the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued
to enforce the judgment therein, or if he be arrested for the cause
mentioned in the third subdivision of section 179, and undertaking
to the same effect as that provided by section 211.
§ 188. [163.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Surrender of defendant.
At any time before a failure to comply with the undertaking,
the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he
may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he was
arrested, in the following manner :
1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be de
livered to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his custody
thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and shall, by a certificate in
writing, acknowledge the surrender ;
2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and sher
ifFs certificate, a judge of the court, or county judge, may, upon a
notice to the plaintiff of eight days, with a copy of the certificate,
order that the hail he exonerated ; and on filing the order and the
papera used on said application, they shall be exonerated accord
ingly. But this section shall not apply to an arrest for cause
mentioned in subdivision 3 of section 179, so as to discharge the
bail from an undertaking given to the effect provided by sec
tion 211.
§ 189. [164.] Surrender of defendant.
For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, afc any
time or place, before they are finally charged, may themselves
arrest him, or by a written authority, indorsed on a certified copy
of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and
discretion to do so.
§190. [165.] Bail, Jww proceeded against.
In case of failure to comply with the undertaking, the bail may
be proceeded against, by action only.
§ 191. [166.] (Am'd 1849.) Bail, how exonerated.
The bail may be exonerated, either by tife death of the defend
ant, or his imprisonment in a State prison, or by his legal discharge
from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process, or
by his surrender to the sheriff of the county where he was arrest
ed, in execution thereof, within twenty days after the commence
ment of the action against the bail, or within such further time as
may be granted by the court.
§ 192. [167.] (Am'd 1849.) Delivery of undertaking to plaintiff,
and its acceptance or rejection by him.
Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff shall de
liver the order of arrest to the plaintiff, or attorney by whom it is
subscribed, with his return indorsed, and a certified copy of the
undertaking of the bail. The plaintiff, within ten days thereafter,
may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not accept the
bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriff
shall be exonerated from liability.
§ 193. [168.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Notice of justification. New
bail.
On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff or defendant may,
within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintiff, or attorney by
whom the order of arrest is subscribed, notice of the justification
of the same or other bail (specifying the places of residence and
occupation of the latter) before a judge of the court, or county
judge, at a specified time and place ; the time to be not less than
five nor more than ten days thereafter. In case other bail be
given, there shall be a new undertaking, in the form prescribed in
section 187.
§ 194. [169.] (Am'd 1849.) Qualifications of bail.
The qualifications of bail must be as follows :
1. Each of them must be a resident, and householder or free
holder, within the State.
2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order
of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution ; but the
judge, or a justice of the peace, on justification, may allow more
than two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that ex
pressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to
that of two sufficient bail.
§ 195. [170.] (Am'd 1849.) Justification of bail.
For the purpose of justification, each of the bail shall attend
before the judge, or a justice of the peace, at the time and place
mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part
of the plaintiff, touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the
judge, or justice of the peace, in his discretion may think proper.
The examination shall be reduced to writing, and subscribed by
the bail, if required by the plaintiff.
§ 196. [171.] (Am'd 1849.) Allowance of bail.
If the judge, or justice of the peace, find the bail sufficient, he
shall annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allow
ance thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk ; and the
sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.
§ 197. [172.] Deposit with the sheriff.
The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of giving
bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order.
The sheriff shall thereupon give the defendant a certificate of the
deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.
§ 198. [173.] (Am'd 1849.) Payment of deposit into court.
The sheriff shall, within four days after the deposit, pay the
same into court, and shall take from the officer receiving the same
two certificates of such payment, the one of which he shall deliver
to the plaintiff, and the other to the defendant. For any default in
making such payment, the same proceedings may be had on the
official bond of the sheriff to collect the sum deposited as in other
cases of delinquency.
§ 199. [174.] (Am'd 1849.) Substituting bail for deposit.
If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections,
bail may be given and justified upon notice, as prescribed in sec
tion 193, any time before judgment ; and thereupon the judge be
fore whom the justification is had shall direct, in the order of
allowance, that the money deposited be refunded by the sheriff to
the defendant, and it shall be refunded accordingly.
§ 200. [175.] (Am'd 1849.) Deposit, how disposed of.
Where money shall have been so deposited, if it remain on de
posit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment of money
to the plaintiff, the clerk shall, under the direction of the court,
apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judg
ment, shall refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the
judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk shall refund to
him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.
§ 201. [176.] (Am'd 1849.) Sheriff, when liable as bail.
If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued, or
bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not made instead
thereof, the sheriff shall himself be liable as bail. But he may
discharge himself from such liability, by the giving and justifica
tion of bail, as provided in sections 193, 194, 195, and 190, at any
time before process against the person of the defendant, to enforce
an order or judgment in the action.
§202. [177.] Proceedings on judgment against sheriff.
If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon his liability
as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole
or in part, the same proceedings may be had on the official bond
of the sheriff, to collect the deficiency, as in other cases of delin
quency.
§ 203. [178.] (Am'd 1849.) Bail liable to sheriff.
The bail taken upon the arrest shall, unless they justify, or
other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff by action
for damages, which he may sustain by reason of such omission.
§ 204. [179.] (Am'd 1858.) Vacating order of arrest, or reduc
ing bail.
A defendant arrested may, at any time before judgment, apply,
on motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount
of bail.
§ 205. [180.] Affidavits on motion.
If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the de
fendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by
affidavits, or other proofs, in addition to those on which the order
of arrest was made.
Claim and Delivery of Personal Property.
Section 206. Claim and delivery of personal property.
207. Affidavit and Its requisites.
208. Requisition to sheriff to take and deliver the property.
209. Security by plaintiff.
210. Exception to sureties.
211. Defendant, when entitled to re-delivery.
212. Justification of defendant's sureties.
213. Qualification and justification of sureties.
214. Property, how taken when concealed in building or lnclosure.
215. Property, how kept.
216. Claim of property by third person.
217. Notice and affidavit, when and where to be filed.
§206. [181.] (Am'd 1849.) Delivery of personal property.
The plaintiff, in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time
before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property, as
provided in this chapter.
§ 207. [182.] Affidavit and its requisites.
Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be made by the
plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, showing,
1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed (par
ticularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession
thereof, by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect
to which shall be set forth ;
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant ;
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his
best knowledge, information, and belief;
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
fine, pursuant to a statute ; or seized under an execution or attach
ment against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it
is, by statute, exempt from such seizure ; and
5. The actual value of the property.
§ 208. [183.] Requisition to sheriff to take and deliver the prop
erty.
The plaintiff may, thereupon, by an indorsement in writing
upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county where the
property claimed may be, to take the same from the defendant and
deliver it to the plaintiff.
§209. [184.] (Am'd 1849.) Security by plaintiff.
Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice, with a written
undertaking executed by one or more sufficient sureties, approved
by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in double the value
of the property, as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution of the
action, for the return of the property to the defendant, if return
thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as
may, for any cause, be recovered against the plaintiff, the sheriff
shall forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it
be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in
his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant
a copy of the affidavit, notice, and undertaking, by delivering the
same to him personally, if he can be found, or to his agent, from
whose possession the property is taken ; or, if neither can be
found, by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either, with
some person of suitable age and discretion.
§ 210. [185.] Exception to sureties.
The defendant may, within three days after the service of a
copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to the sheriff
that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to do
so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objection to them. When
the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice, in like
manner as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff shall be respon
sible for the sufficiency of the sureties, until the objection to them
is either waived as above provided, or until they shall justify, or
new sureties shall be substituted and justify. If the defendant ex
cept to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property, as provided in
the next section.
§ 211. [186.] (Am'd 1849.) Defendant, when entitled to re-deliv
ery.
At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintiff,
the plaintiff- may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plain
tiff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a written
undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to the
effect that they are bound in double the value of the property, as
stated in the affidavit of the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to
the plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to
him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the
defendant. If a return of the property be not so required, within
three days after the taking and service of notice to the defendant,
it shall be delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided in sec
tion 216.
§ 212. [187.] (Am'd 1849.) Justification of defendant's sureties.*
The defendant's sureties, upon a notice to the plaintiff of not
less than two nor more than six days, shall justify before a judge
or justice of the peace, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest ;
upon such justification, the sheriff shall deliver the property to
the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant's
sureties, until they justify, or until justification is completed or
expressly waived, and may retain the property until that time ; but
if they, or others in their place, fail to justify at the time and place
appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintiff.
§213. [188.] (Am'd 1849.) Qualifications and justification of
sureties.
The qualifications of sureties, and their justification, shall be as
are prescribed by sections 194 and 195 in respect to bail upon an
order of arrest.
§ 214. [189.] Property, how taken when concealed in building or
inclosure.
If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a building
or inclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery. If it
be not delivered, he shall cause the building or inclosure to be
broken open, and take the property into his possession ; and, if
necessary, he may call to his aid the power of his county.
§ 215. [190.] Property, how kept.
When the 'Sheriff shall have -taken, property, as in this chapter
provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the
party entitled thereto, upon receiving ht§ lawful fees for taking,
and his necessary expenses for keeping the^Sfljne.
§216. Claim of property by third person. s
If the property taken be claimed by any other person than the
defendant or his agent, and such person shall make affidavit of his
title thereto and right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds
of such right and title, and serve the same upon the sheriff, the
sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property, or deliver it to the
plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on demand of him or his agent, shall
indemnify the sheriff against such claim, by an undertaking, exe
cuted by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits,
that they are each worth double the value of the property as speci
fied in the affidavit of the plaintiff, and freeholders and horseholders
of the county. And no claim to such property, by ary
other person than the defendant or his agent, shall be valid against
the sheriff, unless made as aforesaid ; and notwithstanding such
claim, when so made, he may retain the property a reasonable
time to demaild such indemnity.
§ 217. Notice and affidavit, when and where to be filed.
The sheriff shall file the notice and affidavit, with his proceed
ings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the action is
pending, within twenty days after taking the property mentioned
therein.
Chapter III.
Injunction.
Section 218. Writ of injunction abolished, and order substituted.
219. Temporary injunction, in what cases granted.
220. At what time it may be granted. Copy affidavit to be served.
221. Injunction after answer.
222. Security upon injunction. Damages, how ascertained.
223. Order to show cause why injunction should not be granted.
224. Security upon 4njunction to suspend business of corporation.
225. Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
2'2G. Affidavits on motion.
§ 218. [191.] Injunction by order.
The writ of injunction, as a provisional remedy, is abolished,
and an injunction by order is substituted therefor. The order may
be made by the court in which the action is brought, or by a judge
thereof, or by a county judge, in the cases provided in the next
section, and, when made by a judge, may be enforced as the order
of the court.
§ 219. [192.] (Am'd 1849.) Injunction, in what cases.
[1] Where it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintiff is
entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof,
consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act
the commission or continuance of which, during the litigation,
would produce injury to the plaintiff; or [2] when, during the litiga
tion, it shall appear that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is
about to do, or procuring or suffering some act to be done in viola
tion of the plaintiff's rights respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction
may be granted to restrain such act. [3] And where, during the
pendency of an action, it shall appear by affidavit that the defend
ant threatens, or is about to remove or dispose of his property,
with intent to defraud his creditors, a temporary injunction may
be granted to restrain such removal or disposition.
§ 220. [193.] At what lime it may be granted. Copy affidavit to
be served.
The injunction may be granted at the time of commencing the
action, or at any time afterwards, before judgment, upon its ap
pearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, by the affidavit of the
plaintiff, or of any other person, that sufficient grounds exist
therefor. A copy of the affidavit must be served with the injunc
tion.
§ 221. [194.] (Am'd 1849). Injunction after answer.
An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant shall
have answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order to show
cause ; but in such case the defendant may be restrained until the
decision of the court or judge granting or refusing the injunction.
§ 222. [195.] (Am'd 1849.) Security upon injunction. Dam-
Where no provision is made by statute as to security upon an
injunction, the court or judge shall require a written undertaking
on the part of the plaintiff, with or without sureties, to the effect
that the plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined such damages, not
exceeding an amount to be specified, as he may sustain by reason
of the injunction, if the court shall finally decide that the plaintiff
was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a
reference, or otherwise, as the court shall direct.
§ 223. [196.] (Am'd 1849.) Order to show cause. Restraint in
mean time.
If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant, or any
of several defendants, should be heard before granting the injunc
tion, an order may be made requiring cause to be shown, at a
specified time and place, why the injunction should not be granted ;
and the defendant may, in the meantime, be restrained.
§ 224. [197.] (Am'd 1849.) Security upon injunction to suspend
business of corporation.
An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary business of a
corporation shall not be granted except by the court or a judge
thereof. Nor shall it be granted without due notice of the applica
tion therefor, to the proper officers of the corporation, except
where the people of this State are a party to the proceeding, and
except in proceedings to enforce the liability of stockholders in
corporations and associations for banking purposes, after the first
day of January, one thousand eight hundred and fifty, as such
proceedings are or shall be provided by law, unless the plaintiff
shall give a written undertaking, executed by two sufficient sure
ties, to be approved by the court or judge, to the effect that the
plaintiff will pay all damages, not exceeding the sum to be men
tioned in the undertaking, which such corporation may sustain by
reason of the injunction, if the court shall finally decide that the
plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascer
tained by a reference or otherwise, as the court shall direct.
§ 225. [198.] Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
If the injunction be granted by a judge of the court, or by a
county judge, without notice, the defendant, at any time before the
trial, may apply, upon notice, to a judge of the court in which the
action is brought, to vacate or modify the same. The application
may be made upon the complaint and the affidavits on which the
injunction was granted, or upon affidavits on the part of the de
fendant, with or without the answer.
§ 226. [199.] Affidavits on motion.
If the application be made upon affidavits on the part of the de
fendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff- may oppose the same by
affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on which the injunc
tion was granted.
§ 227. (Am'd 1857.) Property of foreign corporations, and of
non-resident or absconding or concealed defendants, may be attached.
In an action for the recovery of [the money against a corpora
tion created by or under the laws of any other State, government,
or country, or against a defendant who is not a resident of this
State, or against a defendant who has absconded or concealed him
self, or whenever any person or corporation is about to remove
any of his or its property from this State, or has assigned, dis
posed of, or secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of, or secrete,
any of his or its property, with intent to defraud creditors, as
hereinafter mentioned, the plaintiff, at the time of issuing the sum
mons, or at any time afterwards, may have the property of such
defendant or corporation attached in the manner hereinafter pre
scribed, as a security for the satisfaction of such judgment as the
plaintiff may recover.
§ 228. Warrant, by whom granted.
A warrant of attachment must be obtained from a judge of the
court in which the action is brought, or from a county judge.
§ 229. (Am'd 1857, 1860.) In what cases warrant may be issued
—Affidavits to bejiled.
The warrant may be issued whenever it shall appear by affida
vit that a cause of action exists against such defendant, specifying
the amount of the claim and the grounds thereof, and that the de
fendant is either a foreign corporation, or not a resident of this
State, or has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his credit
ors or to avoid the service of a summons, or keep himself con
cealed therein with the like intent, or that such corporation or
person has removed or is about to remove any of his or its property
from this State with intent to defraud his or its creditors, or has
assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of,
or secrete, any of his or its property, with the like intent, whether
such defendant be a resident of this State or not.
It shall be the duty of the plaintiff procuring such warrant,
within ten days after the issuing thereof, to cause the affidavits on
which the same was granted to be filed in the office of the clerk of
the county in which the action is to be tried.
§ 230. (Am'd 1862.) Security on obtaining warrant.
Before issuing the warrant, the judge shall require a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with sufficient surety, to
the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, or the attach
ment be set aside by the order of the court, the plaintiff will pay
all costs that may be awarded to the defendant and all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding
the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be. at least two
hundred and fifty dollars.
§ 231. (Am'd 1851.) Warrant, to whom directed, and what to re
quire.
The warrant shall be directed to the sheriff of any county in
which property of such defendant may be, and shall require him
to attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant within
his county, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the
plaintiff's demand, together with costs and expenses, the amount
of which must be stated in conformity with the complaint, to
gether with costs and expenses. Several warrants may be issued
at the same time to the sheriffs of different counties.
§ 232. Mode of proceeding in executing warrant.
The sheriff to whom such warrant of attachment is directed
and delivered, shall proceed thereon in all respects in the manner
required of him by law in case of attachments against absent
debtors ; shall make and return an inventory ; and shall keep the
property seized by him, or the proceeds of such as shall have been
sold, to answer any judgment which may be obtained in such ac
tion ; and shall, subject to the direction of the court or judge, col
lect and receive into his possession all debts, credits, and effects of
the defendant. The sheriff may also take such legal proceedings,
either in his own name or in the name of such defendant, as may
be necessary for that purpose, and discontinue the same at such
times and on such terms as the court or judge may direct.
§ 233. Proceedings in case of perishable property or vessels.
If any property so seized shall be perishable, or if any part of
it be claimed by any other person than such defendant, or if any
part of it consist of a vessel, or of any share or interest therein,
the same proceedings shall be had in all respects as are provided
by law upon attachments against absent debtors.
§ 234. Interest in corporations or associations liable to attach
ment.
The rights or shares which such defendant may have in the
stock of any association or corporation, together with the interests
and profits thereon, and all other property in this State of such
defendant, shall be liable to be attached and levied upon, and sold
to satisfy the judgment and execution.
§ 235. Attachment, how executed on property incapable of manual
The execution of the attachment upon any such rights, shares,
or any debts or other property incapable of manual delivery to the
sheriff, shall be made by leaving a certified copy of the warrant of
attachment with the president or other head of the association or
corporation, or the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof,
or with the debtor or individual holding such property, with a
notice showing the property levied on.
§ 236. Certificate of defendants interest to be furnished by cor
porations.
Whenever the sheriff shall, with a warrant of attachment, or
execution against the defendant, apply to such officer, debtor, or
individual, for the purpose of attaching, or levying upon such
property, such officer, debtor, or individual shall furnish him with
a certificate under his hand, designating the number of rights or
shares of the defendant in the stock of such association or corpor
ation, with any dividend or any incumbrance thereon, or the
amount and description of the property held by such association,
corporation, or individual, for the benefit of or debt owing to the
defendant. If such officer, debtor, or individual refuse to do so,
he may be required by the court or judge to attend before him,
and be examined on oath, concerning the same, and obedience to
such order may be enforced by attachment.
§ 237. (Am'd 1859.) Judgment, how satisfied.
In case judgment be entered for the plaintiff in such action, the
sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the property attached by him,
if it shall be sufficient for that purpose, —
1. By paying over to such plaintiff the proceeds of all sales of
perishable property, and of any vessel, or share or interest in any
vessel, sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or
so much as shall be necessary to satisfy such judgment ;
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been
issued on such judgment, he shall proceed to sell, under such exe
cution, so much of the attached property, real or personal, except
as provided in subdivision four of this section, as may be neces
sary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that purpose shall remain
in his hands ; and in case of the sale of any rights or shares in
the stock of a corporation or association, the sheriff shall execute
to the purchaser a certificate of sale thereof, and the purchaser
shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in respect
thereto which were had by such defendant.
3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant
shall have passed out of the hands of the sheriff without having
been sold or converted into money, such sheriff shall repossess
himself of the same, and for that purpose shall have all the author
ity which he had to seize the same under the attachment ; and any
person who shall willfully conceal or withhold such property from
the sheriff, shall be liable to double damages, at the suit of the
party injured.
4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be paid, the
sheriff may proceed to collect the notes and other evidences of
debt, and the debts that may have been seized or attached under
the warrant of attachment, and to prosecute any bond he may
have taken in the course of such proceedings, and apply the pro
ceeds thereof to the payment of the judgment.
At the expiration of six months from the docketing of the
judgment, the court shall have power, upon the petition of the
plaintiff, accompanied by an affidavit setting forth fully all the
proceedings which have been had by the sheriff since the service
of the attachment, the property attached, and the disposition
thereof, and also the affidavit of the sheriff that he has used dili
gence and endeavored to collect the evidences of debt in his hands
so attached, and that there remains uncollected of the same any
part or portion thereof, to order the sheriff to sell the same, upon
such terms and in such manner as shall be deemed proper. Notice
of such application shall be given to the defendant or his attorney,
if the defendant shall have appeared in the action. In case the
summons has not been personally served on the defendant, the
court shall make such rule or order, as to the service of notice and
the time of service, as shall be deemed just.
When the judgment and all costs of the proceedings shall have
been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand, shall deliver over
to the defendant the residue of the attached property, or the pro
ceeds thereof.
§ 238. When action to recover notes, &c, of defendant may be
prosecuted by plaintiff in the action in which the attachment issued.
The actions herein authorized to be brought by the sheriff may
be prosecuted by the plaintiff, or under his direction, upon the
delivery by him to the sheriff of an undertaking executed by two
sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff will indemnify
the sheriff from all damages, "costs, and expenses on account
thereof, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars in any one
action. Such sureties shall, in all cases, when required by the
sheriff, justify by making an affidavit that each is a householder,
and worth double the amount of the penalty of the bond, over and
above all demands and liabilities.
§ 239. Bond to sheriff on attachment, how disposed of on judg
ment for defendant.
If the foreign corporation, or absent or absconding or con
cealed defendant, recover judgment against the plaintiff in such
action, any bond taken by the sheriff, except such as are men
tioned in the last section, all the proceeds of sales and moneys
collected by him, and all the property attached remaining in his
hands, shall be delivered by him to the defendant, or his agent, on
request, and the warrant shall be discharged, and the property
released therefrom.
§ 240. (Am'd 1862.) Discharge of attachment, and return of
property or its proceeds to defendant, on his appearance in action.
Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in such action, he
may apply to the officer who issued the attachment, or to the
court, for an order to discharge the same ; and if the same be
granted, all the proceeds of sales and moneys collected by him,
and all the property attached remaining in his hands, shall be de
livered or paid by him to the defendant or his agent, and released
from the attachment.
And where there is more than one defendant, and several prop
erty of either of the defendants has been seized by virtue of the
order of attachment, the defendant whose several property has
been seized may apply to the officer who issued the attachment
for relief under this section.
§ 241. (Am'd 1857, 1862.) Undertaking on the part of the de
fendant.
Upon such application, the defendant shall deliver to the court
or officer an undertaking executed by at least two sureties, who
are residents and freeholders or householders in this State, ap
proved by such court or officer, to the effect that such sureties
will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of judgment that
may be recovered against the defendant in the action, not exceed
ing the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least
double the amount claimed by the plaintiff in his complaint. If
it shall appear by affidavit that the property attached be less than
the amount claimed by the plaintiff, the court, or officer issuing the
attachment, may order the same to be appraised, and the amount
of the undertaking shall then be double the amount so appraised.
And in all cases the defendant may move to discharge the attach
ment, as in the case of other provisional remedies.
And where there is more than one defendant, and several prop
erty of either of the defendants has been seized by virtue of the
order of attachment, the defendant whose several property has
been seized may deliver to the court or officer an undertaking, in
accordance with the provisions of this section, to the effect that
he will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of judgment
that may be recovered against such defendant. And all the pro
visions of this section applicable to such undertaking shall be ap
plied thereto.
§ 242. When sheriff to return warrant and proceedings thereon.
When the warrant shall be fully executed or discharged, the
sheriff shall return the same, with his proceedings thereon, to the
court in which the action was brought.
§ 243. Sheriff's fees..
The sheriff shall be entitled to the same fees and compensation
for. services, and the same disbursements, under this title, as are
allowed by law for like services and disbursements, under the pro
visions of chapter five, title one, and part two, of the Revised
Statutes.
Chapter V.
Provisional Remedies.
§ 244. [200.] (Am'd 1851, 1852, 1857, 1858, 1862.) Powers of
court as to receivers, deposit of money, &c, in court, and other pro
visional remedies. Judgment for sum admitted due.
A receiver may be appointed,—
1. Before judgment, on the application of either party, when
he establishes an apparent right to property which is the subject
of the action, and which is in the possession of an adverse party,
and the property, or its rents and profits, are in danger of being
lost, or materially injured or impaired ; except in cases where
judgment upon failure to answer may be had without application
to the court ;*
2. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect ;
3. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the
judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or
when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and the judg
ment-debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of the
judgment ;
4. In the cases provided in this Code, and by special statutes,
when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or in immi
nent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights ;
and in like cases, of the property within this State of foreign cor
porations. Receivers of the property within this State, of foreign
corporations, shall be allowed the same commissions as are allowed
by law to the trustees of the estates of absconding, concealed, and
non-resident debtors.
5. In such other cases as are now provided by law, or may
be in accordance with the existing practice, except as otherwise
provided in this act.
When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a par
ty, that he has in his possession or under his control any money
or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the
litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which
belongs or is due to another party, the court may order the same
to be deposited in court, or delivered to such party, with or with
out security, subject to the further direction of the court.
Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court shall have
ordered the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money or other
property, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing
the disobedience as for contempt, may make an order requiring
the sheriff to take the money or property, and deposit, deliver or
convey it, in conformity with the direction of the court.
When the answer of the defendant expressly, or by not denying,
admits part of the plaintiff's claim to be just, the court, on motion,
may order such defendant to satisfy that part of the claim, and
may enforce the order as it enforces a judgment or provisional
remedy.
TITLE VIII.
Of the Trial and Judgment in Civil Actions.
Chapter I. Judgment upon failure to answer, &c
II. Issues and the mode of trial.
III. Trial by jury.
IV. Trial by the court.
V. Trial by referees.
VI. The manner of entering judgment.
Chapter I.
Judgment upon failure to answer, &c
Section 245. Judgment defined.
246. Judgment on failure of defendant to answer, or for excess
over counter-claim.
247. Judgment on frivolous demurrer, answer or reply.
^ 245. [201.] Judgment defined.
A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the
parties in the action.
§ 246. [202.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1858.) Judgment on failure
of defendant to answer, or for excess over counter-claim.
Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the com
plaint, as follows :
1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of money
only, the plaintiff may file with the clerk proof of personal ser
vice of the summons and complaint on one or more of the defend
ants, or of the summons according to the provisions of section
1 30, and that no answer has been received. The clerk shall there
upon enter judgment for the amount mentioned in the summons,
against the defendant or defendants, or against one or more of sev
eral defendants, in the cases provided for in section 136. But if
the complaint be not sworn to, and such action is on an instrument
for the payment of money only, the clerk, on its production to him,
shall assess the amount due to the plaintiff thereon ; and in other
eases shall ascertain the amount which the plaintiff is entitled to
recover in such action, from his examination, under oath, or other
proof, and enter the judgment for the amount so assessed or ascer
tained. In case the defendant give notice of appearance in the
action, he shall be entitled to five days' notice of the time and
place of such assessment. . *. tplvLili\/vJr't* ltvL<k-r \t-la.^-
Where the defendant, by his answer in any such action, shall not
deny the plaintiff's claim, but shall set up a counter-claim, amount
ing to less than the plaintiff's claim, judgment may be had by the
plaintiff for the excess of said claim over the said counter-claim,
in like manner in any such action, upon the plaintiff's filing with
the clerk of the court a statement admitting such counter-claim,
which statement shall be annexed to and be a part of the judgment-roll.
2. In other actions the plaintiff may, upon the like proof,
apply to the court, after the expiration of the time for answering, .
for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an
or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court
to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the court
may take the account or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion,
brder a reference for that purpose. And where the action is for
the recovery of money only, or of specific real or personal prop
erty, with damages for the withholding thereof, the court may
the damages to be assessed by a jury, or, if the examination
of a long account be involved, by a reference as above provided.
If the defendant give notice of appearance in the action before
the expiration of the time for answering, he shall be entitled to
eight days' notice of the time and place of application to the court
for the relief demanded by the complaint.
3. In actions where the service of the summons was by publi
cation, the plaintiff may, in like manner, apply for judgment, and
the court must thereupon require proof to be made of the de
mand mentioned in the complaint ; and if the defendant be not a
resident of the State, must require the plaintiff or his agent to be
examined on oath respecting any payments that have been made
to the plaintiff, or to any one for his use, on account of such de
mand, and may render judgment for the amount which he is
entitled to recover. Before rendering judgment the court may,
in its discretion, require the plaintiff to cause to be filed satisfac
tory security, to abide the order of the court, touching the restitu
tion of any estate or effects which may be directed by such judg
ment to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution of any
money that may be collected under or,by virtue of such judgment,
in case the defendant or his representatives shall apply and be
admitted to defend the action, and shall succeed in such defence.
§ 247. Judgment on frivolous demurrer, answer or reply.
If a demurrer, answer or reply be frivolous, the party preju-
diced thereby, upon a previous notice of five days, may apply to a
judge of the court, either in or out of the court, for judgment
thereon, and judgment may be given accordingly.
Utis-i
Section 248.
249.
250.
251.
252.
253.
251.
255.
266.
257.
-Chapter II.
Issues, and the Mode of Trial.
The different kinds of issues.
Issue of law.
I t., » « '
Issue of fact.
On issues of both law and fact, the issue of law to be first tried.
Trial defined.
Issues, how tried.
Issues triable by the court.
Issues, where to be tried.
Either party may give notice of trial. Note of issue. Sten
ographer.
Order of disposing of issues on the calendar.
§ 248. [203.] The different kinds of issues.
Issues arise upon the pleadings when a fact or conclusion of
law is maintained by the one party and controverted by the other.
They are of two kinds :
1. Of law; and
2. Of fact.
§ 249. [204.] Issue of law.
An issue of law arises,
1. Upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply, or to
some part thereof.
<
X~L
§ 250. [205.] (Am'd 1849.) lame of fact.
An issue of fact arises,
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by
the answer ; or,
2. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the reply ;
or,
3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of law is
joined thereon.
§ 251. [206.] On issues of both law and fact, the issue of law to
be first tried.
Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different parts of
the pleadings in the same action. In such cases the issues of law
must be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct.
§ 252. [207.] (Am'd 1851, 1852.) Trial defined.
A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between the
parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.
§ 253. [208.] (Am'd 1849, 1852.) Issues, how tried.
An issue of law must be tried by the court, unless it be referred,
as provided in sections two hundred and seventy and two hundred
and seventy-one. An issue of fact( in an action for the recovery!
of money only, or of specific real or personal property! or for a
divorce from the marriage contract on the ground of adultery,-
must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be waived, as provided
in section two hundred and sixty-six, or a reference be ordered, as
provided in sections two hundred and seventy and two hundred
and seventy-one.
§ 254. [209.] (Am'd 1849.) Other issues to be tried by the
court.
Every other issue is triable by the court, which, however, may
order the whole issue, or any specific question of fact involved
therein, to be tried by a jury, or may refer it, as provided in
sections two hundred and seventy and two hundred and seventy-
one.
§ 255. [210.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852.) Issues, where to be tried.
All issues of fact, triable by a jury or by the court, must be
tried before a single judge. Issues of fact in the supreme court
must be tried at a circuit court when the trial is by jury, other
wise at a circuit court or special term, as the court may, by its
rules, prescribe. Issues of law must be tried at a circuit court or
special term, and shall, unless the court otherwise direct, have
preference on the calendar.
§ 256. [211.] (Am'd 1858, 1859, 1860, 1863.) Either party may
give notice of trial. Note of issue. Stenographer.
At any time after issue, and at least fourteen days before the
court, either party may give notice of trial. The party giving the
notice shall furnish the clerk, at least eight days before the court,
with a note of the issue, containing the title of the action, the
names of the attorneys, and the time when the last pleading was
served ; and the clerk shall thereupon enter the cause upon the
calendar, according to the date of the issue. / * ^-L*~ /**/ /vL*j-f
In the first judicial district there need be but one notice of
trial, and one note of issue from either party, and the action shall
then remain on the calendar until disposed of, and when called
may be brought to trial by the party giving the notice.
In every action in which issue of fact is now joined, and the
action is now placed upon the calendar of the supreme court of
the first judicial district, or of the superior court of the city of
New York, or of the court of common pleas for the city and county
of New York, the party who shall have filed such note of issue
shall, as a condition precedent to such action being brought to
trial, pay to the clerk of the court the sum of three dollars ; and
in every action in either of the said courts commenced after the
passage of this act, the party who shall file therein a first note of
issue of fact shall, as a condition precedent to such filing, pay to
the clerk of the court the sum of three dollars ; and the amounts
so received shall be accounted for and paid over, monthly, by the
clerk of each of said courts, to the comptroller of the city of New
York, and by him deposited in the couuty treasury, to be used as
a fund for the payment of the salaries of stenographers employed
in said courts, as provided for in this section. If the fund thus
created be inadequate to pay such salaries, the additional amount
necessary for such payment shall be appropriated and paid from
the fund of county contingencies, to which fund any surplus of the
sums so paid over to the Comptroller, as hereinbefore provided,
shall be credited.
Each of the courts hereinbefore named shall appoint a steno
grapher for the circuit, trial, term or special term, which consti
tutes a separate branch of such court, who shall be a sworn officer
of the court, shall hold office during the pleasure of the court, and
shall be paid a salary of fifteen hundred dollars per annum, in like
manner as the salaries of other officers of the courts are now paid.
It shall be the duty of every stenographer so appointed for any
circuit, trial, term or special term, under the direction of the pre
siding judge thereof, to take full stenographic notes of all pro
ceedings in every trial thereat ; and in case the presiding judge
shall require a transcript of said stenographic notes, he may order
the expense thereof to be paid equally by the parties to the action,
at the rate of ten cents for every one hundred words so transcribed,
and may enforce payment thereof; and the amount so paid, to
gether with the sum paid as a condition precedent to the cause
being brought to trial, or to the first note of issue being filed as
hereinbefore provided, shall be deemed a necessary disbursement
within the meaning of section three hundred and eleven of the
code of procedure, and shall be allowed as such to the prevailing
party in the action.
At any extra circuit, trial, term or special term of said courts,
the presiding judge thereof shall appoint a stenographer for such
extra circuit or term, who shall, in like manner as aforesaid, be a
sworn officer, and who shall be paid a compensation at the rate
and in the manner hereinbefore provided.
When a court of oyer and terminer shall be held in and for
the city and county of New York, the presiding judge thereof
shall desighate one of the stenographers of the supreme court to
act as stenographer of such court of oyer and terminer during its
session, who shall, in like manner as aforesaid, be a sworn officer,
hut who shall receive no compensation in addition to his salary as
hereinbefore provided, except that in case a transcript of his
stenographic notes, taken on the trial of any criminal cause, be
required for the use of the presiding judge or the district attor
ney, the expense thereof shall, on the order of such judge or dis
trict attorney, be paid as a county charge, at the rate hereinbefore
specified.
In other counties of this State, on trials of issues of fact, at
any circuit court, or court of oyer and terminer, it shall be lawful
for the presiding justice, in his discretion, ±o employ a steno
grapher, who shall be entitled to such compensation as shall be
certified by such justice, not exceeding five dollars for each day's
attendance at such court at the request of such justice, which
compensation shall be a charge upon the counties in which such
courts shall be held respectively, and shall be audited, allowed
and paid in like manner as other county charges are audited, al
lowed and paid. It shall be the duty of such stenographer to
furnish to any party to such trials, upon request, a copy of the
evidence and proceedings taken by him on such trials, or of such
part thereof as may be required, on payment, on behalf of such
party, of six cents for every one hundred words of the copy so
furnished. ^
§ 257. [212.] Order of disposing of issues on the calendar.
The issues on the calendar shall be disposed of in the following
order, unless, for the convenience of parties or the dispatch of busrness,
the court shall otherwise direct :
1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury ; JLa~^ r.... * ! 2.
Issues of fact to be tried by the court ; I ^
3. Issues of law. X"! »-
Chapter III.
Trial by Jury.
Skction 258. Notice of trial. Separate trials.
259. Court to be furnished with a copy of the pleadings.
260. General and special verdicts defined.
261. When jury may render either general or special verdict, and when
the court may direct a special finding.
262. On special finding with a general verdict, the former to control.
263. Jury to assess defendant's damages in certain cases.
264. Entry of the verdict. Motion for new trial.
265. Motion for new trial, or for judgment on special verdict, where to
be heard.
§ 258. [213.] (Am'd 1851.) Notice of trial. Separate trials.
Either party giving the notice may bring the issue to trial, and
in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court, for good
cause, otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dis
missal of the complaint, or a verdict or judgment, as the case may
require. A separate trial between a plaintiff and any of the sev
eral defendants may be allowed by the court, whenever, in its
opinion, justice will thereby be promoted.
§ 289. [214.] (Am'd 1851.) Court to be furnished with copy
pleadings, &c
When the issue shall be brought to trial by the plaintiff, he
shall furnish the court with a copy of the summons and pleadings,
with the offer of defendant, if any shall t have been made. When
— ' *
the issue shall be brought to trial by the defendant, and the plain
tiff shall neglect orrefuse to furnish the court with a copy of the
summons and pleadings and the offer of the defendant, the same
may be furnished by the defendant.
§ 260. [215.] (Am'd 1849.) General and special verdicts defined.
A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce gener
ally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintiff
or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury find
the facts only, leaving the judgment to the court.
§ 261. [216.] (Am'd 1849.) When jury may render either gen
eral or special verdict, and when court may direct special finding.
In an action for the recovery of specific personal property, if the
property have not been delivered to the plaintiff, or the defendant
by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury shall assess the value
of the property, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintiff; or if
they find in favor of the defendant, and that he is entitled to a re
turn thereof; and may at the same time assess the damages, if any
are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party
has sustained by reason of the detention or taking and withholding
such property.
In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real
property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or
special verdict. In all other cases, the court may direct the jury
to find a special verdict in writing, upon all or any of the issues ;
and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a general ver
dict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in writ
ing, and may direct a written finding thereon. The special verdict
or finding shall be filed with the clerk, and entered upon the
minutes.
§ 262. [217.] On special finding with general verdict, former to
control.
Where a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with the
general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court
shall give judgment accordingly.
§ 263. [218.] (Am'd 1851.) Jury to assess defendant's damages in
certain cases.
When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in an action for the
recovery of money, or for the defendant when a set-off for the re
covery of money is established beyond the amount of the plaintiff's
claim as established, the jury must also assess the amount of the
recovery ; they may also, under the direction of the court, assess
the amount of the recovery when the court give judgment for the
plaintiff on the answer. If a set-off, established at the trial, ex
ceed the plaintiff's demand so established, judgment for the de
fendant must be given for the excess ; or if it appear that the
defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment must
be given accordingly.
§ 264. [219.] (Am'd 1851, 1852.) Entry of the verdict. Motion
for new trial.
(1) Upon receiving a verdict, the clerk shall make an entry in
his minutes, specifying the time and place of the trial, the names
of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and either the judgment
rendered thereon, or au order that the cause be reserved for argu
ment or further consideration. If a different direction be not given
by the court, the clerk must enter judgment in conformity with
the verdict. (2) If an exception be taken, it may be reduced to
writing at the time, or entered in the judge's minutes, and after
wards settled as provided by the rules of the court, and then stated
in writing in a case, or separately, with so much of the evidence
as may be material to the questions to be raised, but need not be
sealed or signed, nor need a bill of exceptions be made. (3) If the
exceptions be in the first instance stated in a case, and it be after
wards necessary to separate them, the separation may be made un
der the direction of the court, or a judge thereof. (4) The judge
who tries the cause may, in his discretion, entertain a motion, to
be made on his minutes, to set aside a verdict and grant a new
trial upon exceptions, or for insufficient evidence, or for excessive
damages ; but such motion in actions hereafter tried, if heard
upon the minutes, can only be heard at the same term or circuit at
which the trial is had. When such motion is heard and decided
upon the minutes of the judge, and an appeal is taken from the de
cision, a case or exceptions must be settled in the usual form, upon
which the argument of the appeal must be had. ,,v , £/?.
§ 265. [220.] (Am'd 1851, 1852, 1857.) Motion for new trial,
&c, where to he heard.
A motion for a new trial, on a case or exceptions, or otherwise,
and an application for judgment on a special verdict or case re
served for argument or further consideration, must, in the first in
stance, be heard and decided at the circuit or special term, except
that when exceptions are taken,. the judge trying the cause may at
the trial direct them to be heard in the first instance at the general
term, and the judgment in the meantime suspended ; and in that
case they must be there heard in the first instance, and judgment
there given. And when, upon a trial, the case presents only ques
tions of law, the judge may direct a verdict subject to the opinion
of the court at the general term ; and in that case, the application
for judgment must be made at the general term. Every judgment
rendered upon a verdict taken, subject to the opinion of the court
at a general term, may be reviewed by the court of appeals in the
same manner, and with the like effect, as if exceptions had been
duly taken at the proper time ; provided it shall appear by the re
turn that questions of law were involved in the rendition of the
judgment.
r-
§ 266. [221.] (Am'd 1849.) Trial by jury, how waived.
Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an issue
of fact, in actions on contract, and, with the assent of the court, in
other actions, in the manner following
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the
clerk.
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
§ 26'7. [222.] (Am'd 1849, 1860.) On trial by the court, judg
ment, how to be given.
Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision
shall be given in writing, and shall contain a statement of the facts
found, and the conclusions of law separately ; and upon a trial of
an issue of law, the decision shall be made in the same manner,
stating the conclusions of law. Such decision shall be filed with
the clerk within twenty days after the court at which the trial took
place. Judgment upon the decision shall be entered accordingly.
§ 268. [223.] (Am'd 1851, 1852, 1860.) Exceptions, how and
-when taken. Judgment at general term.
[1.] For the purposes of an appeal, either party may except to a
decision on a matter of law arising upon such trial within ten days
after notice in writing of the judgment, in the same manner and
with the same effect as upon a trial by jury.
[2.] And either party desiring a review, upon the evidence ap
pearing on the trial, either of the questions of fact or of law may,
at any time within ten days after notice of the judgment, or withiu
such time as may be prescribed by the rules of the court, make a
case or exceptions in like manner as upon a trial by jury, except
that the judge, in settling the case, must briefly specify the facts
found by him, and his conclusions of law.
[3.] But the questions, whether of fact or of law, arising upon
the trial, can only be reviewed in the manner prescribed by this
section ; the questions of law in every stage of the appeal, and the
questions of fact upon the appeal to the general term of the same
court, as prescribed in section 348.
No finding of facts by the general term shall be required for the
purpose of review in the court of appeals ; and if the judgment be
reversed at the general term, it shall not be deemed to have been
reversed on questions of fact, unless so stated in the judgment of
reversal ; and in that case, the question, whether the judgment
should have been reversed either upon questions of fact or of law,
shall be open to review in the court of appeals.
The provisions of this section, and also of section two hundred
and seventy-two, as they are hereby amended, shall apply to ap
peals now pending, as well as to those hereafter brought.
§ 269. [224.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Proceedings upon judgment
on issue of law.
On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an issue of law, the plain
tiff may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two subdi
visions of section 246, upon the failure of the defendant to answer,
where the summons was personally served. If judgment be for the
defendant, upon an issue of law, and if taking of an account or the
proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to complete the
judgment, a reference or assessment by jury may be ordered, as in
that section provided.
Chapter V.
Trial by Referees.
Section 270. All issues referable by consent.
271. When a reference may be compulsorily ordered.
272. Mode of trial. Effect of report. Review.
273. Referees, how chosen.
§ 270. [225.] All issues referable by consent.
All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact or of law,
or both, may be referred, upon the written consent of the parties.
§ 271. [226.] (Am'd 1849.) When reference may be compuhorily
ordered.
Where the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the ap
plication of either, or of its own motion, except where the investi
gation will require the decision of difficult questions of law, direct
a reference in the following cases :
1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examina
tion of a long account on either side ; in which case the referees
may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report
upon any specific question of fact involved therein ; or,
2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for the
information of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a judgment
or order into effect ; or,
3. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings,
shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action.
§272. [227.] Am'd 1851, 1852, 1857, 1859, 1860.) Mode of
trial. Effect of report. Review,
The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same manner,
and on similar notice, as a trial by the court. They shall have
the same power to grant adjournments, and to allow amendments
to any pleadings and to the summons, as the court upon such trial,
upon the same terms and with the like effect. They shall have the
same power to preserve order and punish all violations thereof
upon such trial, and to compel the attendance of witnesses before
them by attachment, and to punish them as for a contempt for non-
attendance or refusal to be sworn or testify, as is possessed by the
court. They must state the facts found and the conclusions of law
separately; and their decision must be given, and may be ex
cepted to and reviewed in like manner, but and with like effect in
all respects as in cases of appeal under section 268 ; and they may
in like manner settle a case of exceptions. The report of the re
ferees upon the whole issue shall stand as the decision of the court,
and judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the
action had been tried by the court. When the reference is to re
port the facts, the report shall have the effect of a special verdict.
When the case on appeal shall have been heard and decided at
the general term, upon the report of the referee and exceptions,
without a case containing the evidence, the decision may be re
viewed in like manner on appeal to the court of appeals. If the
judgment be reversed at the general term, and a new trial ordered,
it shall not be deemed to have been reversed on questions of fact,
unless so stated in the judgment of reversal ; and in that case the
question whether the judgment should have been reversed, either
upon questions of fact or of law, shall be open to review in the
court of appeals.
§ 273. [228.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1862, 1863.) Referees, how
chosen.
In all cases of reference, the parties as to whom issues are
formed in the action (except when the defendant is an infant or an
absentee), may agree in writing upon a person or persons not ex
ceeding three, and a reference shall be ordered to him or them,
and to no other persons. And if such parties do not agree, the
court shall appoint one or more referees, not more than three, who
shall be free from exception. And no person shall be appointed
referee to whom all parties in the action shall object, except in ac
tions for divorce. And no justice or judge of any court shall sit
as referee in any action pending in the court of which he is judge,
and not already referred. Unless the court shall otherwise order,
or the parties otherwise stipulate, the referee or referees shall make
and deliver a report within sixty days from the time the action
shall be finally submitted ; and in default thereof, said referee or
referees shall not be entitled to receive any fees, and the action
shall proceed as if no reference had been ordered.
§ 274. [230.] (Am'd 1849, 1852, 1862.) Judgment may be for
or against any of the parties ; may grant defendant affirmative relief
Complaint may be dismissed for neglect to prosecute action. Judg
ment against married woman.
(1.) Judgment may be given for or against one or more of sev
eral plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants ;
and it may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each
side, as between themselves.
(2.) And it may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to
which he may be entitled.
(3.) In an action against several defendants, the court may, in
its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leav
ing the action to proceed against the others, whenever a several
judgment may be proper.
(4.) The court may also dismiss the complaint, with costs in
favor of one or more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect on
the part of the plaintiff to serve the summons on other defendants,
or to proceed in the cause against the defendant or defendants
served.
In an action brought by or against a married woman, judgment
may be given against her as well for costs as for damages, or both
for such costs and for such damages, in the same manner as against
other persons, to be levied and collected of her separate estate and
not otherwise. And in any proceeding to enforce such judgment,
the supreme court shall have jurisdiction, though the amount be
less than one hundred dollars.
§ 275. [231.] The relief to be awarded to the plaintiff.
The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no answer, cannot
exceed that which he shall have demanded iu his complaint ; but
in any other case the court may grant him any relief consistent
with the case made by the complaint and embraced within the
issue.
§ 276. [282.] Rate of damages where damages are recoverable.
Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff may claim
and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any rate of dam
ages which he might have heretofore recovered for the same cause
of action.
§ 277. Judgment in action for recovery of personal property.
In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession, or for the re
covery of possession, or the value thereof in case a delivery cannot
be had, and of damages for the detention. If the property have
been delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant claim a return
thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the pro
perty, or the value thereof in case a return cannot be had, and
damages for taking and withholding the same.
§ 278. [233.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852.) Judgment, Iww directed.
Judgment upon an issue of law or of fact, or upon confession,
or upon failure to answer (except where the clerk is authorized to
enter the same by the first subdivision of section 246, aud by sec
tion 384, and except where it may be given at the general term as
provided in section 265), shall in the first instance be entered upon
the direction of a single judge, or report of referees, subject to re
view at the general term, on the demand of either party, as herein
provided.
§ 279. [234.] Clerk to keep a Judgment-book.
The clerk shall keep, among the records of the court, a book
for the entry of judgments, to be called the "judgment-book."
§ 280. [235.] Judgment to be entered in Jvdgment^book.
The judgment shall be entered in the judgment-book, and
shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of
the action.
§ 281. [236.] (Am'd 1849, 1881, 1852.) Judgment-roll.
Unless the party or his. attorney shall furnish a judgment-roll,
the clerk, immediately after entering the judgment, shall attach
together, and file the following papers, which shall constitute the
judgment-roll :
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant,
the summons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof of service,
and that no answer has been received, the report, if any, and a
copy of the judgment.
2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies thereof,
and a copy of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the offer
of the defendant, exceptions, case, and all orders or papers in any
way involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment.
§ 282. [237.] (Am'd 1851.) Judgments, when and how to be
docketed.
On filing a judgment-roll upon a judgment directing in whole
or in part the payment of money, it may be docketed with the
clerk of the county where it was rendered, and in any other county
upon the filing with the clerk thereof a transcript of the original
" docket," and shall be a lien on the real property, in the county
where the same is docketed, of every person against whom any
such judgment shall be rendered, and which he may have at the
time of docketing thereof in the county in which such real estate
is situated, or which he shall acquire at any time thereafter, for
ten years from the time of docketing the same in the county where
it was rendered. But whenever an appeal from any judgment
shall be pending, and the undertaking requisite to stay execution
on such judgment shall have been given, and the appeal perfected
as provided in the Code, the court in which such judgment was
recovered may, on special motion, after notice to the person own
ing the judgment, in such terms as they shall see fit, direct an
entry to be made by the clerk on the dooket of such judgment,
that the same is " secured on appeal ;" and thereupon it shall
cease, during the pending of the appeal, to be a lien on the real
property of the judgment debtor as against purchasers and mort
gagees in good faith. 5
TITLE IX.
Of the Execution of the Judgment in Civil Actions.
Chapter L The execution.'
II. Proceedings supplementary to the execution.
Chapter I.
The Execution.
Section 283. Execution within five years of course.
284. Execution can only be issued by leave of court after five years.
Leave, how obtained.
285. Judgments, how enforced.
280. The different kinds of execution.
287. To what counties execution may be issued. Execution against a
married woman.
288. Execution against the person, in what cases.
2S9. Form of the execution. •
290. Execution to be returnable in sixty days.
291. Existing laws relating to execution continued.
§ 283. [238.] (Am'd 1849.) Execution within five years of
course.
Writs of execution for the enforcement of judgments, as now
used, are modified in conformity to this title, and the party, in
whose favor judgment has been heretofore or shall hereafter be
given may, at any time within five years after the entry of judg
ment, proceed to enforce the same as prescribed by this title.
§ 284. [239.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1858.) After five years, to be
issued only by leave of court. Leave, how obtained.
After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment, an
execution can be issued only by leave of the court, upon motion,
with personal notice to the adverse party, unless he be absent or
non-resident, or cannot be found to make such service, in which
case such service may be made by publication, or in such other
manner as the court shall direct. Such leave shall not be given
unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other satisfac
tory proof, that the judgmoti, or some part thereof, remains unsat
isfied and due. But the leave shall not be necessary when exe
cution has been issued on the judgment within the five years, and
returned unsatisfied in whole or in part.
When judgment shall have been rendered in a court of justice
of the peace, or in a justice's or other inferior court in a city, and
docketed in the office of the clerk of the County, the application
for leave to issue execution must be to the county court of the
county where the judgment was rendered, or in the city and
county of New York to the court of common pleas of that city and
county.
§ 285. [240.] (Am'd 1849.) Judgments, how enforced.
Where a judgment requires the payment of money, or the de
livery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced in
those respects by execution, as provided in this title. Where it
requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the
judgment may be served upon the party against whom it is given,
or the person or officer who is required thereby or by law to obey
the same, and his obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse, he
may be punished by the court as for a contempt.
§286. [241.] (Am'd 1849.) The different kinds of execution.
There shall be three kinds of execution ; one against the prop
erty of the judgment debtor ; another against his person ; and the
third for the delivery of the possession of real or personal prop
erty, or such delivery with damages for withholding the same.
They shall be deemed the process of the court, but they need not
be sealed nor subscribed, except as prescribed in section 289.
§ 287. [242.] (Am'd 1851, 1852, 1862.) To what counties execu
tion may be issued. Execution against a married woman.
When the execution is against the property of the judgment
debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county where judg
ment is docketed. When it requires the delivery of real or per-
sonal property, it must be issued to the sheriff of the county where
the property, or some part thereof, is situated. Executions may be
issued at the same time to different counties.
Real property adjudged to be sold must be sold in the county
where it lies, by the sheriff of the county, or by a referee ap
pointed by the court for that purpose ; and thereupon the sheriff
or referee must execute a conveyance to the purchaser, which con
veyance shall be effectual to pass the rights and interests of the
parties adjudged to be sold.
An execution may issue against a married woman, and it shall
direct the levy and collection of the amount of the judgment
against her from her separate property, and not otherwise.
§ 288. [243.] (Am'd 1849, 1862.) Execution against the person,
in what cases.
If the action be one in which the defendant might have been
arrested, as provided in section 179 and section 181, an execution
against the person of the judgment debtor may be issued to any
county within the jurisdiction of the court, after the return of an
execution against his property unsatisfied in whole or in part.
But no execution shall issue against the person of a judgment
debtor, unless an order of arrest has been served, as in this act
provided, or unless the complaint contains a statement of facts
showing one or more of the causes of arrest required by section
179.
§ 289. [244.] (Am'd 1849.) Form of the execution.
The execution must be directed to the sheriff, or coroner when
the sheriff is a party or interested, subscribed by the party issuing
it, or his attorney, and must intelligibly refer to the judgment,
stating the court, the county where the judgment-roll or transcript
is filed, the names of the parties, the amount of judgment, if it be
for money, and the amount actually due thereon, and the time of
docketing in the county to which the execution is issued, and shall
require the officer substantially as follows :
1. If it be against the property of the judgment-debtor, it
shall require the officer to satisfy the judgment out of the per
sonal property of such debtor ; and if sufficient personal property
cannot be found, out of the real property belonging to him on the
day when the judgment was docketed in the county, or at any
time thereafter.
i If it be against real or personal property in the hands of
personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, or tenants of
real property, or trustee*, it shall require the officer to satisfy the
judgment out of such property.
S. If it be against the person of the judgment-debtor, it shall
require the officer to arrest such debtor, and commit him to the
jail of the county until he shall pay the judgment or be dis
charged according to law.
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or per
sonal property, it shall require the officer to deliver the possession
of the same, particularly describing it. to the party entitled there
to, and may at the same time require the officer to satisfy any
costs, damages, or rents or profits recovered by the same judg
ment, out of the personal property of the party against whom it
was rendered, and the value of the property for which the judg
ment was recovered, to be specified therein ; if a delivery thereof
cannot be had, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found,
then out of the real property belonging to him on the day when
the judgment was docketed, or at any time thereafter, and shall in
that respect be deemed an exeeation against property.
j iSO. [Sti.] Acid l£t»J 7> jw rrtfcrwiw « *£rf» daw.
The execution shall be returnable withia sixty days, after its
receipt by the officer, to the clerk with whaaa the record of judgateai
is filed.
§ 391. [««.] \Aa«'d 1*4*. 1SSU ftiihaj kr* mm to at-
Tatil otherwise provided by the legislatore, she existing pro
visions of law. not is coaffict with this chapter, re&uixg to execu
tions and their ia^ivieats„ the property tiabie to saie cm execution,
the sale and redewpsion thereof, the jvwvrs and rights of officers,
their duties thereon, aad the r*ooco&6fS tc irn.s«ve those duties,
and the BabiKiy oc their sureties* siaC apfiy w the executions
presvribed by this chapwr.
Chapter II.
Proceedings Supplementary to the Execution.
Section 292. Order for discovery of property, examination of judgment debtor,
&c
298. Any debtor to execution debtor may pay his debt to sheriff.
294. Examination of debtors of judgment debtor, or of those having
property belonging to him.
295. Witnesses required to testify.
296. Compelling party or witnesses to attend.
297. What property may be ordered to be applied to the execution,
298. Judge may appoint receiver, and prohibit transfer of property.
299. Proceedings upon claim of another party to property, or on denial
of indebtedness to judgment debtor.
300. Reference by Judge.
301. Costs of proceeding.
302. Disobedience of order, how punished.
§ 292. [247.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1858, 1859, 1863.) Existing
suits. Order for Discovery of Property, Examination of Judgment
Debtor, &c
(1.) When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or of any one of the several debtors in the same judgment,
issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides or has a place
of business, or, if he do not reside in the State, to the sheriff of
the county where a judgment-roll, or a transcript of a justice's
judgment for twenty-five dollars or upwards, exclusive of costs, is
filed, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment
creditor, at any time after such return made, is entitled to an or
der from a judge of the court, or a county judge of the county to
which the execution was issued, or a judge of the court of com
mon pleas for the city and county of New York, when the execu
tion was issued to such city and county, requiring such judgment
debtor to appear and answer concerning his property, before such
judge, at a time and place specified in the order, within the county
to which the execution was issued. (2.) After the issuing of an
execution against property, and upon proof by affidavit, of a party
or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof,
or county judge, or any judge of the court of common pleas for
the city and county of New York, that any judgment debtor, re
siding in the county where such judge or officer resides, has prop
erty which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of
the judgment, such court or judge may, by an order, require the
judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place, to answer
concerning the same ; and such proceedings may thereupon be had
for the application of the property of the judgment debtor towards
the satisfaction of the judgment as are provided upon the return
of an execution. Whenever it shall satisfactorily appear, by affi
davit, to a justice of the supreme court, that such county judge,
or judge of said court of common pleas, is incapacitated from act
ing in any of the proceedings whatever herein authorized, from
any cause or causes whatsoever, such justice of the supreme court
shall have the same powers and authority, in all cases whatever,
as are herein conferred upon him as to cases of judgments in the
supreme court. (3.) On an examination under this section, either
party may examine witnesses in his behalf, and the judgment
debtor may be examined in the same manner as a witness. (4.)
Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment
debtor, the judge may, upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to his
satisfaction, that there is danger of the debtor's leaving the State,
or concealing himself, and that there is reason to believe he
has property which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment,
issue a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county where such
cfebtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before such judge.
Upon being brought before the judge, he may be examined on
oath, and, if it then appears that there is danger of the debtor's
leaving the State, and that he has property which he has unjustly
refused to apply to such judgment, ordered to enter into an under
taking, with one or more sureties, that he will, from time to time,
attend before the judge as he shall direct, and that he will not,
during the pendency of the proceedings, dispose of any portion of
his property not exempt from execution. In default of entering
into such undertaking, he may be committed to prison by warrant
of the judge, as for a contempt. (5.) No person shall, on examin
ation pursuant to this chapter, be excused from answering any
question on the ground that his examination will tend to convict
him of the commission of a fraud ; but his answer shall not be
used as evidence against him in any criminal proceeding or prose
cution. Nor shall he be excused from answering any question, oil
-
the ground that he has, before the examination, executed any con
veyance, assignment or transfer of his property for any purpose,
but his answer shall not be used as evidence against him in any
criminal proceeding or prosecution.
§293. [248.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits—Any debtor may pay
execution against his creditor.
After the issuing of execution against property, any person in
debted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount
of his debt, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy the
execution ; and the sheriff's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge
for the amount so paid.
§ 294. [249.] (Am'd 1849, 1863.) Existing suits—Examination of
debtors of judgment debtor, or of those having property belonging to
him.
After the issuing or return of an execution against property of
the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same
judgment, and upon an affidavit that any person or corporation has
property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an
amount exceeding ten dollars, the judge may, by an order, require
such person or corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to
appear at a specified time and place, and answer concerning the
same. The judge may also, in his discretion, require notice of
such proceeding to be given to any party to the action, in such
manner as may seem to him proper.
The proceedings mentioned in this section, and in section two
hundred and ninety -two, may be taken upon the return of an exe
cution unsatisfied, issued upon a judgment recovered in an action
against joint debtors, in which some of the defendants have not
been served with the summons by which said action was commenced,
so far as relates to the joint property of such debtors ;
and all actions by creditors to obtain satisfaction of jndgments out
of the property of joint debtors are maintainable in the like man
ner and to the like effect. These provisions shall apply to all pro
ceedings and actions now pending, and not actually terminated by
any final judgment or decree.
§295. [250.] Existing suits— Witnesses required to testify.
Witnesses may be required to appear and testify on any pro
ceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial
of an issue.
§296. [251.] (Am' d 1849.) Existing suits— Compelling party or
witnesses to attend.
The party or witness may be required to attend before the
judge, or before a referee appointed by the court or judge ; if be
fore a referee, the examination shall be taken by the referee, and
certified to the judge. All examinations and answers before a
judge or referee, under this chapter, shall be on oath, except that
when a corporation answers, the answer shall be on the oath of an
officer thereof.
§297. [252.] (Aiu'd 1851.) Existing suits— What property may
be ordered to be applied to (he execution.
The judge may order any property of the judgment debtor, not
exempt from execution, in the hands either of himself or any other
pereon, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the
satisfaction of the judgment; except that the earnings of the
debtor for his personal services, at any time within sixty days next
preceding the order, cannot be so applied when it is made to ap
pear, by the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are
necessary for the use of a family supported wholly or partly by
his labor.
§ 298. [253.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1862, 1863.) Existing suitsJudge
may appoint receiver and prohibit transfer, dec, of properly.
The judge may also, by order, appoint a receiver of the prop
erty of the judgment debtor, in the same manner, and with the
like authority, as if the appointment was made by the court, ac
cording to section 244. But before the appointment of such re
ceiver, the judge shall ascertain, if practicable, by the oath of the
party, or otherwise, whether any other supplementary proceedings
are pending against the judgment debtor, and if such proceedings
arc so pending, the plaintiff therein shall have notice to appear
before him, and shall likewise have notice of all subsequent pro
ceedings in relation to said receivership. No more than one re
ceiver of the property of a judgment debtor shall be appointed.
The judge may also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposi
tion of the property of the judgment debtor not exempt from exe
cution, and any interference therewith.
Whenever the judge shall grant an order for the appointment
of a receiver of the property of the judgment debtor, the same
shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the county whore the
judgment-roll in the action or transcript from justice's judgment,
upon which the proceedings are taken, is filed ; and the said clerk
shall record the order in a book to be kept for that purpose in his
office, to be called " Book of orders appointing receivers of judg
ment debtors," and shall note the time of the filing of said order
therein. A certified copy of said order shall be delivered to the
receiver named therein, and he shall be vested with the property
and effects of the judgment debtor from the time of the filing and
recording of the order as aforesaid. The receiver of the judgment
debtor shall be subject to the direction and control of the court in
which the judgment was obtained upon which the proceedings are
founded ; or if the judgment is upon a transcript from justice's
court, filed in county clerk's office, then he shall be subject to the
direction and control of the county court.
But before he shall be vested with any real property of such
judgment debtor, a certified copy of said order shall also be filed
and recorded in the office of the clerk of the county in which any
real estate of such judgment debtor sought to be affected by such
order is situated, and also in the office of the clerk of the county
in which such judgment debtor resides.
§ 299. [254.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits—Proceedings upon
claim of another party to property, or on denial of indebtedness to
judgment debtor.
If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have prop
erty of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest
in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, such interest or
debt shall be recoverable only in an action against such person or
corporation by the receiver ; but the judge may, by order, forbid
a transfer or other disposition of such property or interest, till a
sufficient opportunity be given to the receiver to commence the
action, and prosecute the same to judgment and execution ; but
such order may be modified or dissolved by the judge granting
the same, at any time, on such security as he shall direct.
§ 300. [255.] (Am'd 1849, 1857.) Existing suits—Reference by
The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a referee
agreed upon by the parties, or appointed by him, to report the
evidence or the facts, and may, in his discretion, appoint such ref
eree in the first order, or at any time.
§ 801. [256.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits— Costs of proceeding.
The judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to any party
so examined, whether a party to the action or not, witnesses' fees
and disbursements, and a fixed sum in addition, not exceeding
thirty dollars, as costs.
§ 302. [257.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Existing suits—Disobedience of
order, how punished.
If any person, party, or witness, disobey an order of the judge
or referee, duly served, such person, party, or witness, may be
punished by the judge as for a contempt. And in all cases of com
mitment under this chapter, or the act to abolish imprisonment for
debt, the person committed may, in case of inability to perform
4khe act required, or to endure the imprisonment, be discharged
from imprisonment by the court or judge committing him, or the
court in which the judgment was rendered, on such terms as may
be just. .
§ 303. [258.] Fee bill abolished.
All statutes establishing or regulating the costs or fees of at
torneys, solicitors, and counsel in civil actions, and all existing
rules and provisions of law restricting or controlling the right of
a party to agree with an attorney, solicitor, or counsel, for his
compensation, are repealed ; and hereafter the measure of such
compensation shall be left to the agreement, express or implied, of
the parties. But there may be allowed to the prevailing party,
upon the judgment, certain sums by way of indemnity for his ex
penses in the action, which allowances are in this act termed
costs.
§304. [259.] (Am'd 1849, 1862.) When allowed of course to ike*
plaintiff.
Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintiff, upon a recov
ery, in the following cases :
1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when a
claim of title to real property arises on the pleadings, or is cer
tified by the court to have come in question at the trial ;
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property ;
3. In the actions of which a court of justice of the peace has
no jurisdiction ; 9 *"•
4. In an action for the recovery of money, where the plaintiff
shall recover fifty dollars ; but in an action for assault, battery,
false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal
conversation, or seduction, if the plaintiff recover less than fifty
dollars, damages, he shall recover no more costs than damages.
And in action to recover the possession of personal property, if
the plaintiff recover less than fifty dollars damages, he shall re
cover no more costs than damages, unless he recovers also prop
erty, the value of which, with the damages, amounts to fifty dollars,
or the possession of property be adjudged to him, the value
of which, with the damages, amounts to fifty dollars ; such value
must be determined by the jury, court, or referee, by whom the
action is tried. When several actions shall be brought on one
bond, recognizance, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other
instrument in writing, or in any other case, for the same cause of
action, against several parties who might have been joined as de
fendants in the same action, no costs other than disbursements
shall be allowed to the plaintiff in more than one of such actions,
which shall be at his election, provided that the party or parties
proceeded against in such other action or actions have been within
this State, and not secreted.
§ 305. [260.] When allowed to defendant.
Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant, in the actions
mentioned in the last section, unless the plaintiff be entitled to
costs therein.
§ 306. [261.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) When allowed to either parti/,
in the discretion of the court.
In other actions, costs may be allowed or not, in the discretion
of the court.
In all actions where there are several defendants not united in
interest, and making separate defences by separate answers, and
the plaintiff fails to recover judgment against all, the court may
award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their
favor, or any of them.
In the following cases the costs of an appeal shall be in the
discretion of the court :
1. When a new trial shall be ordered ;
2. When a judgment shall be affirmed in part, and reversed in
part.
§ 307. [262.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1857, 1858, 1859, 1862,
1863, 1864.) Amount of costs allowed.
When allowed, costs shall be as follows :
1. For all proceedings before trial, including actions where judg
ment on failure to answer can only be taken on application to the
court, twenty-five dollars; where judgment may be taken upon
failure to answer without application to the court, ten dollars ^/or
each additional defendant served with process, not exceeding ten,
two dollars ; and for each necessary defendant in excess of that
number served with process, one dollar.
2. To the defendant for all proceedings before notice of trial,
ten dollars, and for all proceedings after notice of and before trial,
fifteen dollars.
3. To either party, where a new trial shall be had, for all pro
ceedings before such new trial and after the granting of such new
trial, twenty-five dollars ; for attending upon and taking the depo
sition of a witness conditionally, or attending to perpetuate his tes
timony, ten dollars ; for drawing interrogatories to annex to a com
mission for the taking of testimony, ten dollars ; for attending the
examination of a party before trial, ten dollars ; for making and
serving a case,'or case containing exceptions, twenty dollars, except
that where the case shall necessarily contain more than fifty folios,
there shall be allowed ten dollars, in addition thereto, and for mak
ing and serving amendments thereto, ten dollars.
4. To either party for the trial of an issue of law, twenty dol
lars ; for every trial of an issue of fact, thirty dollars ; and where
the trial shall necessarily occupy more than two days, ten dollars
in addition thereto.
5. To either party on appeal, except to the Court of Appeals,
and except appeals in the cases mentioned in section three hundred
and forty-nine, before argument, twenty dollars ; for argument, forty
dollars ; and the same costs shall be allowed to either party before
argument, and for argument on application for judgment upon spe
cial verdict, or upon verdict subject to the opinion of the court, or
for a new trial, on a case made, and in cases where exceptions are
ordered to be heard in the first instance, at a General Term, under
the provisions of section two hundred and sixtyfive.
6. To either party on appeal to the Court of Appeals, before
argument, thirty dollars ; for argument, sixty dollars ; and where a
judgment is affirmed, the court may, in its discretion, also award
damages for the delay, not exceeding ten per cent, on the amount
of the judgment ; for preparing and serving a case, or case con
taining exceptions, in appeals to the Court of Appeals, twenty
dollars.
1. To either party, for every circuit or term not exceeding
five circuits, and five special and five general terms, at which the
cause is necessarily on the calendar, and is not tried, or is post
poned by order of the court, ten dollars; but in an action hereafter
brought to recover dower, before admeasurement, of real property
aliened by the husband, the plaintiff shall not recover costs, unless
it appear that the dower was demanded before the commencement
of the action, and was refused. The same costs shall be allowed to
the plaintiff in proceedings under chapter two, title twelve, of the
second part of this Code (sections three hundred and seventy -five to
three hundred and eighty-one), as upon the commencement of an
action.
§ 308. [263.] (Am'd 1849, 1857, 1862.) Additional allowance.
In addition to these allowances, there shall be allowed to the
plaintiff, upon the recovery of judgment by him, in any action for
the partition of real property, or for the foreclosure of a mortgage,
or in any action in which a warrant of attachment has been issued,
or for an adjudication upon a will or other instrument in writing,
and in proceedings to compel the determination of claims to real
property, the sum of ten per cent, on the recovery, as in the next
section prescribed, for any amount not exceeding two hundred
dollars ; an additional sum of five per cent, for any additional
amount not exceeding four hundred dollars ; and an additional
sum of two per cent, for any additional amount not exceeding one
thousand dollars.
And in the actions above named, if the same shall be settled
before judgment therein, like allowances upon the amount paid or
secured upon such settlement, at one-half the rates above specified.
§ 309. [264.] (Am'd 1849, 1S51, 1858, 1859, 1862.) Allowance,
how computed. Difficult and extraordinary cases.
These rates shall be estimated upon the value of the property
claimed or attached, or affected by the adjudication upon the will
or other instrument, or sought to be partitioned, or the amount
found due upon the mortgage in an action for foreclosure. And
whenever it shall be necessary to apply to the court for an order
enforcing the payment of an installment falling due after judgment
in an action for foreclosure, the plaintiff shall be entitled to the
rate of allowance in the last section prescribed, but to no more in
the aggregate than if the whole amount of the mortgage had been
due when judgment was entered. Such amount of value must be
determined by the court, or by the commissioners in case of actual
partition. In difficult and extraordinary cases, where a trial has
been had, except in any of the actions or proceedings (other than
those for the partition of real estate) specified in section three
hundred and eight, and in actions or proceedings for the partition
of real estate, the court may also, in its discretion, make a further
allowance to any party not exceeding five per cent, upon the
amount of the recovery or claim, or subject matter involved.
§ 310. [265.] Interest on verdict or report, when allowed.
When the judgment is for the recovery of money, interest, from
the time of the verdict or report until judgment be finally entered,
shall be computed by the clerk, and added to the costs of the party
entitled thereto.
§ 811. [266.] (Am'd 1849, 1857, 1862.) Costs, how to be inserted
in judgment. Adjustment of interlocutory costs.
The clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment, on the applica
tion of the prevailing party, upon five days' notice to the other,
except when the attorneys reside in the same city, village, or town,
and then upon two days' notice, the sum of the allowances for costs,
as provided by this Code, the necessary disbursements, including
the fees of officers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses, the rea
sonable compensation of commissioners in taking depositions, the
fees of referees, and the expense of printing the papers for any
hearing when required by a rule of the court. The disbursements
shall be stated in detail and verified by affidavit. A copy of the
items of the costs and disbursements shall be served, with a notice
of adjustment
Whenever it shall be necessary to adjust costs in any interlo
cutory proceeding in an action, or in any special proceedings, the
same shall be adjusted by the judge before whom the same may be
heard, or the court before which the same may be decided or pend
ing, or in such other manner as the judge or court may direct
§ 312. [267.] Clerks fees.
The clerk shall receive,
On every trial, from the party bringing it on, one dollar ; on
entering a judgment by filing transcript, six cents ;
On entering judgment, fifty cents ; except in courts where the
clerks are salaried officers, and in such courts, one dollar.
He shall receive no other fee for any services whatever, in a
civil action, except for copies of papers, at the rate of five cents
for every hundred words.
§ 313. [268.] Referees' fees.
The fees of referees shall be three dollars to each, for every day
spent in the business of the reference ; but the parties may agree
in writing upon any other rate of compensation.
§314. [269.] Costs on postponement of trial.
When an application shall be made to a court or referees to
postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not
exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be im
posed, as the condition of granting the postponement.
§ 315. [270.] (Am'd 1849, 1857.) Existing mils— Costs on a
motion.
Costs may be allowed on a motion, in the discretion of the
court or judge, not exceeding ten dollars, and may be absolute or
directed to abide the event of the action.
§ 316. Costs against infant plaintiff.
When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintiff, the guar
dian by whom he appeared in the action shall be responsible there
for, and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment.
§ 317. (Am'd 1851, 1852.) Costs in action by or against an exec
utor or administrator, trustees of an express trust, or a person expressly
authorized by statute to sue. Security for costs.
(1.) In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, ad
ministrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly
authorized by statute, costs shall be recovered, as in an action by
and against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right ;
but such costs shall be chargeable only upon or collected of the
estate, fund, or party represented, unless the court shall direct the
same to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant personally, for mis
management or bad faith in such action or defence. But this sec
tion shall not be construed to allow costs against executors or ad
ministrators where they are now exempted therefrom by section
41 of title 3, chapter 6, of the second part of the Revised Statutes.
(2.) And whenever any claim against a deceased person shall be
referred, pursuant to the provisions of the Revised Statutes, the
prevailing party shall be entitled to recover the fees of referees
and witnesses, and other necessary disbursements, to be taxed ac
cording to law. (3.) And the court may, in its discretion, in the
cases mentioned in this section, require the plaintiff to give secur
ity for costs.
§ 818. (Am'd 1862.) Costs on review of a decision of an inferior
court in a special proceeding.
When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in a spe
cial proceeding, including appeals from surrogates' courts, shall be
brought before the supreme court for review, such proceedings
shall, for all purposes of cost, be deemed an action at issue, on a
question of law, from the time the same shall be brought into the
supreme court, and costs thereon shall be awarded and collected in
such manner as the court shall direct, according to the nature of
the case.
§ 319. Costs in action by the people.
In all civil actions, prosecuted in the name of the people of
this State, by an officer duly authorized for that purpose, the peo
ple shall be liable for costs in the same cases and to the same
extent as private parties. If a private person be joined with the
people as plaintiff, he shall be liable in the first instance for the
defendant's costs, which shall not be recovered of the people till
after execution issued therefor against such private party and re
turned unsatisfied.
§ 320. Costs in actions by the people.
In an action prosecuted in the name of the people of this
State, for the recovery of money or property, or to establish a
right or claim for the benefit of any county, city, town, village,
corporation or person, costs awarded against the plaintiff shall be
a charge against the party for whose benefit the action was prose
cuted, and not against the people.
§ 321. Costs against assignee after action brought of cause of
action.
In actions in which the cause of action shall, by assignment
after the commencement of the action, or in any other manner,
become the property of a person not a party to the action, such
person shall be liable for the costs, in the same manner as if he
were a party, and payment thereof may be enforced by attach
ment.
§ 322. Costs on a settlement.
Upon the settlement, before judgment, of any action mentioned
in section three hundred and four, no greater sum shall be demand
ed from the defendant as costs than at the rates prescribed by that
section.
§ 323. [271.] Existing Suits— Writs of error abolished, and ap
peals substituted.
Writs of error in civil actions, as they have heretofore existed,
are abolished ; and the only mode of reviewing a judgment, or
order, in a civil action, shall be that prescribed by this title.
§ 324. [272.] Existing Suits— Orders made out of court, how
vacated or modified.
An order, made out of court, without notice to the adverse
party, may be vacated or modified, without notice, by the judge
who made it, or may be vacated or modified on notice, in the
manner in which other motions are made.
§325. [273.] Existing suits— Who may appeal.
Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed in
this title.
§ 326. [274.] Existing Suits—Parties, how designated on appeal.
The party appealing shall be known as the appellant, and the
adverse party as the respondent. But the title of the action shall
not be changed in consequence of the appeal.
§ 327. [275.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing Suits—Appeal, how made.
(1.) An appeal must be made by the service of a notice in
writing on the adverse party, and on the clerk with whom the
judgment or order appealed from is entered, stating the appeal
from the same or some specified part thereof. (2.) When a party
shall give, in good faith, notice of appeal from a judgment or or
der, and shall omit, through mistake, to do any other act necessary
to perfect the appeal or to stay proceedings, the court may permit
an amendment on such terms as may be just.
§ 328. [276.] (Am'd 1858, 1863.) Existing Suits— Transmission
of papers to appellate court.
If the appellant shall not, within twenty days after his appeal is
perfected, cause a certified copy of the notice of appeal and of the
judgment-roll, or, if the appeal be from an order or any part
thereof, a certified copy of such order and the papers upon which
the order was granted, to be transmitted to the appellate court by
the clerk with whom the notice of appeal is filed, the respondent
may cause such certified copy to be transmitted by such clerk to
the appellate court, and recover the expenses thereof as a disburse
ment on such appeal in case the judgment or order appealed from
shall be in whole or in part affirmed ; and this provision shall ap
ply to all appeals heretofore taken, where the appeal has not been
dismissed in the manner provided by the rules of the appellate
court.
§ 329. [277.] Existing Suits—Intermediate orders affecting the
judgment may be reviewed on the appeal.
Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review any
intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily affecting
the judgment.
§330. [278.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing Suits—Judgment on appeal.
Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the appellate court
may reverse, affirm or modify the judgment or order appealed
from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal, and as to
any or all of the parties, and may, if necessary or proper, order a
new trial. When the judgment is reversed or modified, the appellate
court may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost
by the erroneous judgment.
§331. [279.] (Am'd 1857, 1858.) Existing suits— Time for
appealing.
The appeal to the court of appeals, under subdivision 2 of section
11 of this Code, must be taken within sixty days after written notice
of the order shall have been given to the party appealing ; every
other appeal allowed by the second and third chapters of this title
must be taken within two years after the judgment shall be per
fected by filing the judgment-roll.
§ 332. [280.] (Am'd 1849.) Other appeals within thirty days.
The appeal allowed by the fourth chapter of this title must be
taken within thirty days after written notice of the judgment or
order shall have been given to the party appealing.
Chapter II.
Appeals to the Court of Appeals.
Section 333. Appeal, Jn what cases.
884. On appeal, security must be given or deposit made, unless waived.
835. On judgment for money, security to stay execution. New under
taking in sureties on first becoming insolvent.
386. If judgment be to deliver document or personal property, it must
be deposited or security be given.
s 837. If judgment be to execute conveyance, it must be executed and
deposited.
338. Security where judgment is to deliver real property or for a sale
of mortgaged premises.
839. Stay of proceedings upon security being given.
340. Undertakings may be in one instrument or several.
841. Security to be approved and sureties to justify.
342. Perishable property may be sold, notwithstanding appeal.
848. Undertaking must be filed.
§ 333. [282.] (Am'd 1857.) Existing suits—Appeal, in what
cases.
An appeal may be taken to the court of appeals in the cases
mentioned in section 11. "When any of the courts mentioned
therein shall, at general term, render judgment upon a verdict
taken subject to the opinion of the court, the questions or conclu
sions of law, together with a concise statement of the facts upon
which they arose, shall be prepared by and under the direction of
the court, and shall be filed with the judgment-roll, and be deemed
a part thereof, for the purposes of a review in the court of appeals.
The provisions of the last preceding section [this] shall apply
to any judgment therein mentioned that has been heretofore ren
dered, and upon which an appeal has been brought and is now
pending, or upon which an appeal shall hereafter be brought.
When the return has already been filed with the clerk of the court
of appeals, such statement shall be filed with him, and be deemed
a part of such return.
§ 884. [283.] On appeal, security must be given or deposit made,
unless waived.
To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written under
taking must be executed on the part of the appellant, by at least
two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all costs and
damages which may be awarded against him on the appeal, not ex
ceeding two hundred and fifty dollars ; or that sum must be de
posited with the clerk with whom the judgment or order was
entered, to abide the event of the appeal. Such undertaking or
deposit may be waived by a written consent on the part of the
respondent.
§ 835. [284.] (Am'd 1859, 1862, 1863.) Existing suits— On judg
mentfor money, security to stay execution. New undertaking on sureties
in first becoming insolvent.
If the appeal be from a judgment directing the payment of
money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgment, unless a
written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by
at least two sureties, to the effect that, if the judgment appealed
from, or any part thereof, be affirmed, or the appeal be dismissed,
the appellant will pay the amount directed to be paid by the judg
ment, or the part of such amount as to which the judgment shall
be affirmed, if it be affirmed only in part, and all damages which
shall be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal. When
ever.it shall be made satisfactorily to appear to the court that since
the execution of the undertaking the sureties have become insol
vent, the court may, by rule or order, require the appellant to ex
ecute, file, and serve a new undertaking as above ; and in case of
neglect to execute such undertaking within twenty days after the
service of a copy of the rule or order requiring such new under
taking, the appeal may, on motion to the court, be dismissed with
costs. Whenever it shall be necessary for a party to any action or
proceeding to give a bond or an undertaking, with surety or sure
ties, he may, in lieu thereof, deposit with the officer or into court,
as the case may require, money to the amount for which such bond
or undertaking is to be given. The court in which such action or
proceeding is pending may direct what disposition shall be made of
such money, pending the action or proceeding. In any case where,
by this section, the money is to be deposited with an officer, a
judge of the court, at special term or at chambers, upon the appli
cation of either party, may, before such deposit is made, order it
to be deposited in court instead of with such officer ; and a deposit
made, pursuant to such order, shall be of the same effect as if made
with such officer.
§ 336. [285.] (Am'd. 1849.) Existing suits—If judgment be to
deliver document or personal property, it must be deposited, or security
be given.
If the judgment appealed from direct the assignment or delivery
of documents or personal property, the execution of the judgment
shall not be stayed by appeal, unless the things required to be as
signed or delivered be brought into court, or placed in the custody
of such officer or receiver as the court shall appoint, or unless an
undertaking be entered into on the part of the appellant, by at
least two sureties, and in such amount as the court, or a judge
thereof, or county judge, shall direct, to the effect that the appel
lant will obey the order of the appellate court upon the appeal.
§ 337. [286.] Existing suits — If to execute conveyance, it must
be executed and deposited.
If the judgment appealed from direct the execution of a convey
ance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment shall not
be stayed by the appeal until the instrument shall have been exe
cuted and deposited with the clerk with whom the judgment is
entered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.
§ 338. [287.] Existing suits — Security where judgment is to de
liver real property or for a sale of mortgaged premises.
If the judgment appealed from direct the sale or delivery of
possession of real property, the execution of the same shall not be
stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of
the appellant, with two sureties, to the effect that, during the pos
session of such property by the appellant, he will not commit, or
suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judg
ment be affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation
of the property, from the time of the appeal until the delivery of
possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment, not exceeding a sum
to be fixed by a judge of the court by which judgment was ren
dered, and which shall be specified in the undertaking. When the
judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment
of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall also
provide for the payment of such deficiency.
§ 339. [288.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Existing suits— Stay of pro
ceedings upon security being given.
Whenever an appeal is perfected as provided by sections 335,
336, 837, and 338, it stays all further proceedings in the court be
low upon the judgment appealed from, or upon the matter embraced
therein ; but the court below may proceed upon any other matter
included in the action and not affeoted by the judgment appealed
from. And the court below may, in its discretion, dispense with
or limit the security required by sections three hundred and thirtyfive,
three hundred and thirty-six, and three hundred and thirty-
eight, when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or
other person acting in another's right ; and may also limit such
security to an amount not less than fifty thousand dollars, in the
cases mentioned in sections three hundred and thirty-six, three
hundred and thirty-seven, three hundred and thirty-eight, where
it would otherwise, according to those sections, exceed that sum.
§ 340. [289.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits — Undertakings may
be in one instrument or several.
The undertakings prescribed by sections 334, 335, 336, and 338,
may be in one instrument or several, at the option of the appellant ;
and a copy, including the names and residence of the sureties,
must be served on the adverse party, with the notice of appeal,
unless a deposit is made as provided in section 334, and notice
thereof given.
§ 341. [290.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits — Security to be ap
proved and to justify.
An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect, unless it be
accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties that they are each
worth double the amount specified therein. The respondent may,
however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties, within ten days
after the notice of the appeal ; and unless they or other sureties
justify before a judge of the court below, or a county judge, as pre
scribed by sections 195 and 196, within ten days thereafter, the
appeal shall be regarded as if no undertaking had been given.
The justification shall be upon a notice of not less than five days.
§ 342. [291.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits—Perishable property
may be sold notwithstanding appeal.
In the cases not provided for in sections 335, 336, 337, 338, and
339, the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the undertaking men
tioned, in section 334, shall stay proceedings in the court below
upon the judgment appealed from, except that where it directs the
sale of perishable property, the court below may order the property
to be sold, and the proceeds thereof to be deposited or invested, to
abide the judgment of the appellate court.
§343. [292.] Existing suits— Undertaking must be filed.
The undertaking must be filed with the clerk with whom the
judgment or order appealed from was entered.
§ 344. [293.] (Am'd 1849, 1858, 1860.) Existing suits—Appeal,
in. what eases.
An appeal may be taken to the supreme court from the judg
ment rendered by a county court, or by the mayor's courts or the
recorders' courts of cities.
An appeal also may be taken to the supreme court from any or
der affecting a substantial right, made by a county court or a county
judge, in any action or proceeding ; and such appeal shall be heard
on a copy of the papers on which the order appealed from was
made.
§ 345. [294.] Existing suits—Security must be given as upon ap
peal to court of appeals.
Security must be given upon such appeal, in the same manner,
and to the same extent, as upon an appeal to the court of appeals.
§ 346. [295.] Existing suits—Appeals, where heard.
Appeals in the supreme court shall be heard at a general term,
either in the district embracing the county where the judgment or
order appealed from was entered, or in a county adjoining that
county, except that where the judgment or order was entered in
the city and county of New York, the appeal shall be heard in the
first district.
§347. [296.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits—Judgment on appeal,
where entered and docketed.
Judgment upon the appeal shall be entered and docketed with
the clerk in whose office the judgment-roll is filed. When the ap
peal is hoard in a county other than that where the judgment-roll
is filed, or is not from a judgment of a county court, the judgment
upon the appeal 'shall be certified to the clerk with whom the roll
is filed, to be there entered and docketed.
Chapter IV.
Appeals in the Supreme Court, and the Superior Court and Court of
Common Pleas of the City of New York, from a single Judge to
the General Term.
Section 843. Appeals from circuit and special term to same court in general
term. Security on appeals. Action on undertaking.
849. Appeals from orders at special term.
850. Appeals from orders at chambers.
§348. [297.] (Am'd 1849, 1881, 1852, 1859, 1862.) Appeals
from circuit and special term to same court in general term. Security
on appeal. Action on undertaking.
-In the supreme court, the superior court of the city of New York,
and the court of common pleas for the city and county of New York,
an appeal upon the law may be taken to the general term from a
judgment entered upon the report of referees or the direction of a
single judge of the same court, in all cases, and upon the fact when
the trial is by the cour(^|0»referees. Such an appeal, however, l
does not stay the proceedings, unless security be given as upon an
s appeal to the court of appeals, and such security be renewed as in
cases required by section 335 on motion to the court at special
term, or unless the court, or a judge thereof, so order, which order
may be made upon such terms, as to security, or otherwise, as may
be just, such security not to exceed the amount required on an ap
peal to the court of appeals. In the supreme court, the appeal
must be heard in the same manner as if it were an appeal from an
inferior court.
No action shall be commenced upon any undertaking given or
to be given in pursuance with the provisions of this section, until
ten days after the service of notice on the adverse party of the
entry of the order or judgment affirming the judgment appealed
from. And in case an appeal has been or shall be taken to the
court of appeals from such order or judgment of affirmance, and
security given according to law so as to stay the issuing of exe
cution, no action shall be commenced or recovery had upon any
undertaking given or to be given in pursuance of the provisions
of this section until after the final determination of such appeal.
§349. [299.] (Am'd 1849, 1881, 1852, 1862.) Appeals from
orders at special term.
An appeal may, in like manner, and within the same time, be
taken from an order made at a special term by a single judge of
the same court or county, or a special county judge, or by a re
corder, or by any recorder's court of any city, in any stage of the
action, including proceedings supplementary to the execution, and
may be thereupon reviewed in the following cases.
1. When the order grants or refuses, continues or modifies, a
provisional remedy.
2. When it grants or refuses a new trial, or when it sustains or
overrules a demurrer.
3. When it involves the merits of the action, or some part
thereof, or affects a substantial right.
4. When the order in effect determines the action and prevents
a judgment from which an appeal may be taken.
5. When the order is made upon a summary application, in an
action after judgment, and affects a substantial right.
§ 350. [300.] Appeals from orders at chambers.
The last section shall include an order made out of court upon
notice, but in such case the order must be first entered with the
clerk. And for the purpose of an appeal, any party affected by
such order may require it to be entered with the clerk, and it
shall be entered accordingly.
§ 351. [301.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits—Existing laws re
pealed, and this chapter substituted.
All statutes, now in force, providing for the review of judg
ments in civil cases, rendered by courts of justices of the peace, by
the marine court of the city of New York, by the justices' courts
in the city of New York, by the municipal court of the city of
Brooklyn, and by the justices' courts of cities, and regulating the
practice in relation to such review, are repealed ; and hereafter,
the only mode of reviewing such judgments shall be an appeal, as
prescribed by this chapter.
§ 352. [302.] (Am'd 1849, 1857, 1862, 1863, 1864.) Existing
suits By what courts judgments to be reviewed. New trial.
When a judgment shall have been rendered by the general
term of the marine court of the city of New York, or by a justice
of a justices' court of that city, the appeal shall be to the court of
common pleas for the city and county of New York.
The appeal from the general term of the marine court pre
scribed herein, shall be from an actual determination at such gene
ral term only, and shall be taken within twenty days after judg
ment by such general term. In the city of Buffalo, the appeals
from the courts of justices of said city shall be to the superior
court of said city. When rendered by any of the other courts
enumerated in section three hundred and fifty-one, the appeal shall
be to the county court of the county where the judgment was
rendered. On such appeal, when the amount of the claim or
claims of either party litigated in the court below shall exceed
fifty dollars, or when in an action to recover the possession of per
sonal property, the value of the property as assessed and the
damages recovered shall exceed fifty dollars, exclusive of costs, a
new trial shall be had in the county court in the following cases :
1. When the judgment was rendered upon an issue of law
joined between the parties.
2. When it was rendered upon an issue of fact joined between
the parties, whether the defendant was present at the trial or not.
And when the appeal is to the superior court of Buffalo, in the
cases in which, by the terms of this section, a new trial may be
had, such new trial shall be had in the said superior court.
Provided, however, that the appellant may, in cases when the
amount litigated exceeds fifty dollars, state in the notice of appeal
that such appeal is taken upon questions of law only, in which
case a new trial shall not be had in county court, but the appeal
shall be heard and determined in the same manner as if the amount
litigated in justices' court in said cause appealed was fifty dollars
or under.
§ 353. [303.] (Am'd 1851, 1852.) Masting mils—Appeal, wlten
to be taken.
The appellant shall, within twenty days after judgment, serve
a notice of appeal, stating the grounds upon which the appeal is
founded. If the judgment is rendered upon process not personally
served, and the defendant did not appear, he shall have twenty
days, after personal notice of the judgment, to serve the notice of
appeal provided for in this and the next section.
§ 354. [304.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1852, 1857, 1858.) Existing
suits—Notice of appeal to be served on justice, and costs of return to
be paid.
The notice of appeal must, within the same time, be served on
the justice personally, if living and within the county, or on his
clerk, if there be one, and on the respondent, personally, or by
leaving it at his residence, with some person of suitable age and
discretion ; or, in case the respondent is not a resident of such
county, or cannot, after due diligence, be found therein, in the
same manner, on the attorney or agent, if any, who is a resident
of such county, who appeared for the respondent on the trial ; and
if neither the respondent nor such agent or attorney can be found
in the county, the notice may be served on the respondent by
leaving it with the clerk of the appellate court ; and the appellant
must, at the time of the service of the notice of appeal on the jus
tice or on his clerk, as herein provided (except in cases of appeals
from the district courts in the city of New York and the general
term of the marine court of the city of New York), pay to such
justice or clerk the costs of the action, included in the judgment,
together with two dollars, costs of the return, which shall be in
cluded in the judgments for costs on reversal. In all cases of
appeal from the general term of the marine court of the city of
New York, and from the district courts of the city of New York,
to the court of common pleas for the city and county of New York,
the appellant shall, at the time of the service of the notice of ap
peal, pay to the clerk of the marine court, or to the justice or
clerk of the district court, two dollars, as" costs of the return to
such court of common pleas, which costs, so paid, shall be included
in the judgment for costs, in case the judgment of the court below
shall be reversed ; and the appellant shall also execute, on the
appeal, a written undertaking on his part, with one or more suffi
cient sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all costs,
disbursements, and extra costs, awarded against him in the court
below, if such judgment shall be affirmed by the appellate court,
on such appeal, together with all costs and damages which may be
awarded against him thereon ; such sureties to justify in double
the amount specified in the undertaking; such undertaking and
the sufficiency of the sureties to be approved by the justice of the
court below, or one of the judges of the court of common pleas ;
or the appellant may deposit, with the clerk of the court of com
mon pleas, the costs, disbursements, and extra costs, included in
the judgment in the court below, and the sum of fifteen dollars,
to meet any costs that may be awarded against him on such
appeal ; and such appeal from the general term of the marine court
and the district court shall be ineffectual, unless, within the time
specified for bringing the appeal, the appellant execute such un
dertaking or make such deposit ; the undertaking, when executed
and approved, to be filed with the clerk of the court of common
pleas ; the amount so deposited shall be repaid by said clerk to
the appellant, if he succeed on the appeal ; and in case the judg
ment be affirmed, the said clerk shall, after execution is issued, pay
over the amount, so deposited, to the respondent, which shall be
credited on the execution issued on the judgment of affirmance, to
the extent thereof, and the balance, if any, on the execution issued
on the judgment appealed from.
§ 355. [305.] (Am'd 1849, 1863.) Existing suits— Security to
stay execution.
When, by the terms of section three hundred and fifty-two, the
appellant is entitled to a new trial, in the appellate court, he shall,
at the time of taking his appeal, and in all other cases if he desires
a stay of execution of the judgment, give security as provided in
the next section.
§ 366. [306.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits—Form of under
taking.
The security shall be a written undertaking, executed by one
or more sufficient sureties, approved by the county judge or by
the court below, to the effect that if judgment be rendered against
the appellant, and execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in
whole or in part, the sureties will pay the amount unsatisfied.
§ 35Y. [30?.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits — Execution, how
The delivery of the undertaking to the court below shall stay
the issuing of execution ; or, if it have been issued, the service
of a copy of the undertaking, certified by the court below, upon
the officer holding the execution shall stay further proceedings
thereon.
§ 358. [308.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits—In case of death of
justice, undertaking to be filed.
Where, by reason of the death of a justice of the peace, or his
removal from the county, or any other cause, the undertaking on
the appeal cannot be delivered to him, it shall be filed with the
clerk of the appellate court, and notice thereof given to the re
spondent, or his attorney or agent, as provided in section 354 ;
it shall thereupon have the same effect as if delivered to the
justice.
§ 359. [309.] (Am'd 1849, 1852.) Existing suits—Filing inlieu
of service of notice of appeal.
When, by reason of the death of a justice of the peace, or his
absence from the county, or any other cause, the notice of appeal
cannot be served as provided by section 353, it may be served by
leaving the same with the clerk of the county.
§ 360. [311.] (Am'd 1849, 1852, 1862.) Existing suits—Return,
when and how made and compelled.
The court below shall thereupon, after ten days, and within
thirty days after service of the notice of appeal, make a return to
the appellate court of the testimony, proceedings and judgment,
and file the same in the appellate court. The return may be com
pelled by attachment. But no justice of the peace shall be bound
to make a return unless the fee prescribed by the last section of
this chapter be paid on the service of the notice of appeal.
g 361. [312.] Existing suits—How made if justice be out of
office.
When a justice of the peace, by whom a judgment appealed
from was rendered, shall have gone out of office before a return is
ordered, he shall, nevertheless, make a return in the samo manner,
and with the like effect, as if he were still in office.
§ 362. [313.] (Am'd 1857.) Existing mils—Further return.
If the return be defective, the appellate court may direct a
further or amended return as often as may be necessary, and may"
compel a compliance with its order by attachment. And the court
shall always be deemed open for these purposes.
§ 863. [314.] Existing suits—Justice dead, insane, or absent.
If a justice of the peace whose judgment is appealed from
shall die, become insane, or remove from the State, the appellate
court may -examine witnesses on oath, to the facts and circum
stances of the trial or judgment, and determine the appeal, as if the
facts had been returned by the justice. If he shall have removed
to another county within the State, the appellate court may com
pel him to make the return, as if he were still within the county
where the judgment was rendered.
§ 364. [315.] (Am'd 1862, 1863.) Existing suits—Hearing upon
return. Dismissing appeal if not brought on.
If a return be made, and the appeal is from a judgment where
a new trial may not be had, as provided by this chapter, it may be
brought to a hearing at a general term of the appellate court,
upon notice by either party of not less than eight days. It shall
be placed upon the calendar, and continue thereon without fur
ther notice until finally disposed of. But if neither party bring
it to a hearing before the end of the second term, the court shall
dismiss the appeal, unless it continue the same by special order,
for cause shown. If the appeal is from a judgment where a new
trial may be had, it may be brought to a hearing or trial at any
term of the county court at which a petit jury shall be summoned
to attend, upon the same notice as provided for actions in the su
preme court ; at least eight days before the court, the party desir
ing to bring on the appeal shall serve a note of issue on the clerk,
and the clerk shall thereupon enter the cause on the calendar, ac
cording to the date of the return.
And the provisions of this chapter for a new trial shall apply
as well to appeals heretofore taken and now pending, as those
hereafter to be brought.
§ 365. [316.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits— To be heard on ori
ginal papers.
The appeal shall be heard on the original papers, and no copy
thereof need be furnished for the use of the court.
§ 366. [317.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1862.) Existing suits—Judg
ment on appeal. New trial.
Upon the hearing of the appeal, the appellate court shall give
judgment according to the justice of the case, without regard to
technical errors and defects which do not affect the merits. In
giving judgment, the court may affirm or reverse the judgment of
the court below, in whole or in part, and as to any or all the par
ties, and for errors of law or fact. If the appeal is founded on an
error in fact in the proceedings, not affecting the merits of the
action, and not within the knowledge of the justice, the court may
determine the alleged error in fact on affidavits, and may, in its
discretion, inquire into and determine the same upon examination
of the witnesses. If the defendant failed to appear before the jus
tice, and it is shown by the affidavits served by the appellant, or
otherwise, that manifest injustice has been done, and he satisfac
torily excuses his default, the court may, in its discretion, set aside
or suspend judgment, and order a new trial before the same or any
other justice in the same county, at such time and place and on
such terms as the court may deem proper. "Where a new trial shall
be ordered before a justice, the parties must appear before him ac
cording to the order of the court, and the same proceedings must
thereupon be had in the action as on the return of a summons per
sonally served. If the appeal shall be from a judgment in which
a new trial may be had, as in this chapter provided, the court shall
proceed to the hearing of the cause, if the issue joined before the
justice was an issue of law, or to the trial thereof by jury, if such
issue was upon a question of fact.
1. If the issue joined before the justice was an issue of law,
the court shall render judgment thereon according to the law of
the case ; and if such judgment be against the pleadings of either
party, an amendment of such pleading may be allowed on the same
terms, and in like case, as pleadings in actions in the supreme court,
and the court may thereupon require the opposite party to answer
such amended pleading, or join issue thereon, as the case may re
quire, summarily.
2. If, upon an appeal in an issue of law, the court should ad
judge the pleading complained of to be valid, it shall, in like man
ner, require the opposite party summarily to answer such pleading
or join issue thereon, as the case may require.
3. Upon an issue of fact being so joined, the court shall pro
ceed to hear the same tried by a jury in the same manner as issues
joined in the supreme court.
4. Every issue of fact so joined or brought upon an appeal shall
be tried in the same manner as in actions commenced in the su
preme court.
5. The court shall have the same power over its own determi
nations, the verdict of the jury, and shall render judgment thereon
in the same manner as the supreme court in actions pending
therein.
6. Either party may move for a new trial in said court on a
case or exception, or otherwise, and such motion may be made be
fore or after judgment has been entered ;' and the provisions of this
act in relation to the proceedings on receiving the verdict of a
jury, exceptions to the decisions of the court, making and settling
case and exceptions, motions for new trials, and making up the
judgment-roll in the supreme court, are hereby made applicable to
all appeals brought up for trial, as in this chapter provided.
§ 367. [318.] (Am'd 1852.) Existing mils—Judgment-roll.
To every judgment upon an appeal there shall be annexed the
return on which it was heard, which shall be filed with the clerk
of the court, and shall constitute the judgment-roll.
§368. [321.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits— Costs, how awarded.
If the judgment be affirmed, costs shall be awarded to the re
spondent. If it be reversed, costs shall be awarded to the appel
lant. If it be affirmed in part, the costs, or such part as to the
court shall seem just, may be awarded to either party.
§ 369. [322.] (Am'd 1849, 1857.) Existing suits—Restitution.
If the judgment below, or any part thereof, be paid or collected,
and the judgment be afterwards reversed, the appellate court shall
order the amount paid or collected to be restored with interest
from the time of such payment or collection. The order may be
obtained on proof of the facts made at or after the hearing, upon a
previous notice of six days ; and if the order shall be made be
fore the judgment is entered, the amount may be included in the
judgment.
§370. [323.] Existing suits—Setting off costs and recovery.
If, upon an appeal, a recovery be had by one party, and costs
be awarded to the other, the appellate court shall set off the one
against the other, and render judgment for the balance.
§ 371. [324.] (Am'd 1849, 1851, 1862, 1863, 1864.) Existing suits
— The costs on appeal.
Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party in judgments
rendered on appeal, in all cases, with the following exceptions and
limitations : —In the notice of appeal, the appellant shall state in
what particular or particulars he claims the judgment should have
been more favorable to him. Within fifteen days after the service
of the notice of appeal the respondent may serve upon the appel
lant and justice an offer, in writing, to allow the judgment to be
corrected in any of the particulars mentioned in the notice of ap
peal. The appellant may thereupon, and within five days there
after, file with the justice a written acceptance of such offer, who
shall thereupon make a minute thereof in his docket, and correct
such judgment accordingly, and the same, so corrected, shall stand
as his judgment, and be enforced accordingly ; and any execution
which has been issued upon the judgment appealed from shall be
amended by the justice to correspond with the amended judgment ;
and no undertaking given to stay execution shall be enforced for
more than the amount of the corrected judgment. If such offer be
not made, and the judgment in the appellate court be more favor
able to the appellant than the judgment in the court below, or if
such offer be made and not accepted, and the judgment of the ap
pellate court be more favorable to the appellant than the offer of
the respondent, the appellant shall recover costs. If the offer be
made, and accepted by the appellant, the appellant shall recover
all his disbursements on appeal, and all his costs, in the conrt be
low. But the appellant shall not recover costs except as provided
in this chapter. The respondent shall be entitled to recover costs
where the appellant is not.
Whenever costs are awarded to the appellant, he shall be al
lowed to tax, as part thereof, the costs and fees paid to the justice
on making the appeal, as disbursements, in addition to the costs
in the appellate court; and when the judgment in the suit before
the justice was against such appellant, he shall further be allowed
to tax the costs incurred by him which he would have been en
titled to recover in case the judgment below had been rendered in
his favor.
If, upon an appeal, a recovery for any debt or damages be had
by one party, and costs be awarded to the other party, the court
shall set off such costs against such debt or damages, and render
judgment for the balance.
The following fees and costs, and no other, except fees of officers,
disbursements, and witnesses' fees, shall be allowed on appeal to
the party entitled to costs as herein provided, when the new trial
is in the county court :
For proceedings before notice of trial, ten dollars.
For all subsequent proceedings before trial, seven dollars.
For trial of an issue of law, ten dollars.
For every trial of an issue of fact, fifteen dollars.
For argument of a motion for a new trial on a case of bill of
exception, ten dollars.
In all cases, to either party, for every term, not exceeding five,
at which the appeal is necessarily on the calendar and is not
tried or is not postponed by the court, seven dollars.
In other appeals the costs shall be as follows : —To the appel
lant, on reversal, fifteen dollars ; to the respondent, on the affirm
ance, twelve dollars. If the judgment appealed from be reversed
in part and affirmed as to the residue, the amount of costs allowed
to either party shall be such sum as the appellate court may award,
not exceeding ten dollars. If the appeal be dismissed for want of
prosecution, as provided by section 364, no costs shall be allowed
to either party. In every appeal, the justice of the peace before
whom the judgment appealed from was rendered, shall receive two
dollars for his return. If the judgment be reversed for an error of
fact in the proceedings, not affecting the merits, costs shall be in .
the discretion of the court.
If, in the notice of appeal, the appellant shall not state in what
particular or particulars he claims the judgment should have been
made more favorable to him, he shall not be entitled to costs un
less the judgment appealed from be wholly reversed.
TITLE XII.
Of the Miscellaneous Proceedings in Civil Actions, and General
Provisions.
Chaptsb I. Submitting a controversy without action.
II. Proceedings against joint debtors, heirs, legatees, devisees, and ten
ants holding under a judgment debtor.
III. Confession of a judgment without action.
IV. Offers of the defendant to compromise the whole or a part of the
action.
V. Admission or inspection of writings.
VI. Examination of parties.
VII. Examination of witnesses.
VIII. Motions and orders.
IX. Entitling affidavits.
X. Computation of time.
XI. Notices, and filing and service of papers.
XIL Duties of sheriffs and coroners.
XIII. Accountability of guardians.
XIV. Powers of referees.
XV. Miscellaneous provisions.
Chapter I.
Submitting a Controversy without Action,
Section 372. Controversy, how submitted without action.
873. Judgment, how enforced.
874. Judgment, how enforced or appealed from.
§ 372. [325.] Controversy, how submitted without action.
Parties to a question in difference, which might be the subject
of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case containing
the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a sub
mission of the same to any court which would have jurisdiction if
an action had been brought. But it must appear by affidavit that
the controversy is real, and the proceeding in good faith, to deter.mine
the rights of the parties. The court shall thereupon hear
and determine the case, at a general term, and render judgment
thereon, as if an action were depending.
§ 3K. [326.] Judgment.
Judgment shall be entered in the judgment-book, as in other
cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior to notice of trial.
The case, the submission, and a copy of the judgment shall consti
tute the judgment-roll.
§ 874. [327.] Judgment, how enforced or appealed from.
The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it had
been rendered in an action, and shall be subject to ajppeal in like
manner.
Chaptek II.
Proceedings against Joint Debtors, Heirs, Devisees, legatees, and
Tenants holding under a Judgment Debtor.
Section 375. Parties, not summoned In action on joint contract, may be sum
moned after judgment.
876. If judgment debtor die, his representatives may be summoned.
877. Form of summons.
878. Summons to be accompanied by affidavit of amount due.
379. Party summoned may answer and defend.
880. Subsequent pleadings and proceedings the same as in an action.
881. Answer and reply to be verified as in an action.
§ 3Y5. [328.] (Am' d 1849.) Parties, not summoned in action on
joint contract, may be summoned after judgment.
When a judgment shall be recovered against one or more of
several persons jointly indebted upon a contract, by proceeding as
provided in section 136, those who were not originally summoned
to answer the complaint may be summoned to show cause why
they should not be bound by the judgment, in the same manner as
if they had been originally summoned.
I 1 .-.. J . .
§376. [329.] (Am'd 1849.) If judgment debtor die, his representatives
may be summoned.
In case of the death of a judgment debtor after judgment, the
heirs, devisees, or legatees of the judgment debtor, or the tenants
of real property owned by him and affected by the judgment, may,
after the expiration of three years from the time of granting letters
testamentary or of administration upon the estate of the testator or
intestate, be summoned to show cause why the judgment should
not be enforced against the estate of the judgment debtor in their
hands respectively ; and the personal representatives of a deceased
judgment debtor may be so summoned, at any time within one year
after their appointment.
§ 377. [330.] Form of summons.
The summons provided in the last two sections shall be sub
scribed by the judgment creditor, his representatives or attorney,
shall describe the judgment, and require the person summoned to
show cause within twenty days after the service of the summons ;
and shall be served in like manner as the original summons.
§ 378. [331.] To be accompanied by affidavit of amount due.
The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the per
son subscribing it, that the judgment has not been satisfied, to his
knowledge or information and belief, and shall specify the amount
due thereon.
§ 379. [332.] (Am'd 1849.) Party summoned may answer and
defend.
Upon such summons, the party summoned may answer within
the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up
any defence which may have arisen subsequently ; and, in addition
thereto, if he be proceeded against according to section 375, he
may make the same defence which he might have originally made
to the action, except the statute of limitations.
§380. [333.] (Am'd 1849.) Subsequent pleadings and proceed
ings same as in action.
The party issuing the summons may demur or reply to the an
swer, and the party summoned may demur to the reply ; and the
issues may be tried and judgment may be given in the same man
ner as in an action, and enforced by execution, or the application
of the property charged to the payment of the judgment may be
compelled by attachment, if necessary.
§ 381. [334.] (Am'd 1849.) Answer and reply to be verified as
in an action.
The answer and reply shall be verified in the like cases and
manner, and be subject to the same rules, as the answer and reply
in an action.
Chapter III.
Confession of Judgment without action.
Section 382. Judgment may be confessed for debt due or for contingent lia
bility. '
3S3. Statement in writing, and form thereof.
884. Judgment and execution.
§382. [835.] Judgment may be confessed for debt due or contin
gent liability.
A judgment by confession may be entered, without action,
either for money due or to become due, or to secure any person
against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in
the manner prescribed by this chapter.
§ 383. [336.] Statement in writing, and form thereof.
A statement in writing must be made, signed by the defendant,
and verified by his oath, to the following effect :
1. It must state the amount for which judgment may be en
tered, and authorize the entry of judgment therefor.
2. If it be for money due or to become due, it must state con
cisely the facts out of which it arose, and must show that the sum
confessed therefor is justly due, or to become due.
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against a
contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting
the liability, and must show that the sum confessed therefor does
not exceed" the same.
§ 384. [33'7.] (Am'd 1849, 1851.) Judgment and execution.
The statement may be filed with a county clerk, or with a clerk
of the superior court of the city of New York, who shall endorse
upon it, and enter in the judgment-book, a judgment of the supreme
or said superior court, for the amount confessed, with five dollars
costs, together with disbursements. The statement and affidavit,
with the judgment endorsed, shall thenceforth become the judg
ment-roll. Executions may be issued and enforced thereon, in the
same manner as upon judgments in other cases in such courts.
When the debt for which the judgment is recovered is not all due,
or is payable in installments, and the installments are not all due,
the execution may issue upon such judgment for the collection of
such installments as have become due, and shall be in the usual
form, but shall have endorsed thereon, by the attorney or person
issuing the same, a direction to the sheriff to collect the amount
due on such judgment, with interest and costs, which amount shall
be stated, with interest thereon, and the costs of said judgment.
Notwithstanding the issue and collection of such execution, the
judgment shall remain as security for the installments thereafter to
become due ; and whenever any further installments become due,
execution may, in like manner, be issued for the collection and en
forcement of the same.
Chapter IV.
Offer of the Defendant to Compromise the whole or a pari of the Action.
Section flS5. Offer of Compromise.
3SC. Defendant may offer to liquidate damages.
8S7. Effect of acceptance or refusal of offer.
§385. [338.] (Am'd 1851.) Offer of compromise.
The defendant may, at any time before the trial or verdict,
serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing to allow judgment to be
taken against him for the sum or property, or to the effect therein
specified, with costs. If the plaintiff accept the offer, and give
notice thereof in writing, within ten days, he may file the summons,
complaint, and offer, with an affidavit of notice of acceptance ; and
the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If the no
tice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed with
drawn, and cannot be given in evidence ; and if the plaintiff fail
to obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but
must pay the defendant's costs from the time of the offer.
§ 886. [339.] Defendant may offer to liquidate damages con
ditionally.
In an action arising on contract, the defendant may, with his
answer, serve upon the plaintiff an offer in writing, that if he fail
in his defence, the damages be assessed at a specified sum ; and if
the plaintiff signify his acceptance thereof in writing, with or be
fore the notice of trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the dam
ages shall be assessed accordingly.
§387. [340.] Effect of acceptance or refusal of offer.
If the plaintiff do not accept the offer, he shall prove his dam
ages as if it had not been made, and shall not be permitted to give
it in evidence. And if the damages assessed in his favor shall not
exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover
his expenses incurred in consequence of any necessary preparation
or defence in respect to the question of damages. Such expense
shall be ascertained at the trial.
Chapter V.
Admission or Inspection of Writings.
§ 388. [341, 342.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits—Inspection and
copy of books, papers, and documents, how obtained.
Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his attorney, at any
time before the trial, any paper material to the action, and request
an admission in writing of its genuineness. If the adverse party,
or his attornej', fail to give the admission, within four days after
the request, and if the party exhibiting the paper be afterwards
put to expense in order to prove its genuineness, and the same be
finally proved or admitted on the trial, such expense, to be ascer
tained at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing the admis
sion, unless it appear to the satisfaction of the court that there
were good reasons for the refusal. The court before which an ac
tion is pending, or a judge or justice thereof, may, in their discre
tion, and upon due notice, order either party to give to the other,
within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to
take a copy, of any books, papers, and documents, in his possession
or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of
the action or the defence therein. If compliance with the order be
refused, the court, on motion, may exclude the paper from being
given in evidence, or punish the party refusing, or both.
Chapter VI.
Examination of Parties.
Sbctioh 389. Action for discovery abolished.
390. A party may examine his adversary as a witness.
891. Such examination aiso allowed before trial. Proceeding there
for.
892. Party, how compelled to attend.
393. Testimony of party may be rebutted.
394. Effect of refusal to testify.
395. Testimony of a party not responsive to the inquiries may be re
butted by the oath of the party calling him.
396. Persons for whom action is brought or defended may be exam
ined.
897. Examination of co-plaintiff or co-defendant.
§389. [343.] Action for discovery abolished.
No action to obtain discovery under oath, in aid of the prose
cution or defence of another action, shall be allowed, nor shall any
examination of a party be had, on behalf of the adverse party, ex
cept in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
§ 390. [344.] Existing suits—A party may examine his adver
sary as a witness.
A party to an action may be examined as a witness, at the in
stance of the adverse party, or of any one of several adverse par
ties, and for that purpose may be compelled, in the same manner,
and subject to the same rules of examination, as any other wit
ness, to testify, either at the trial, or conditionally, or upon com
mission.
§391. [348.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits — Such examination
also allowed before trial. Proceedings therefor.
The examination, instead of being had at the trial, as provided
in the last section, may be had at any time before the trial, at the
option of the party claiming it, before a judge of the court, or a
county judge, on a previous notice to the party to be examined,
and any other adverse party, of at least five days, unless, for good
cause shown, the judge order otherwise. But the party to be examined
shall not be compelled to attend in any other county than
that of his residence, or where he may be served with a summons
for his attendance.
§392. [346.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits— Party, Iww compelled
to attend.
The party to be examined, as in the last section provided, may
be compelled to attend in the same manner as a witness who is to
be examined conditionally ; and the examination shall be taken
and filed by the judge in like manner, and may be read by either
party on the trial.
§393. [348.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits— Testimony of parly
may be rebutted.
The examination of the party, thus taken, may be rebutted by
adverse testimony.
§394. [347.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits— Effect of refusal lo
testify.
If a party refuse to attend and testify, as in the last four sec
tions provided, he may be punished as for a contempt, and his
complaint, answer, or reply, may be stricken out.
§395. [349.] (Am'd 1849, 1863.) Existing suits— Testimony by
a party not responsive to the inquiries may be rebutted by the oath of
the party calling him.
A party examined by an adverse party, as in this chapter pro
vided, may be examined on his own behalf, subject to the same
rules of examination as other witnesses. But if he testify to any
new matter, not responsive to the inquiries put to him by the ad-
verse party, or necessary to explain or qualify his answers thereto,
or discharge when his answers would charge himself, such adverse
party may offer himself as a witness on his own behalf in respect
to such new matter, subject to the same rules of examination as
other witnesses, and shall be so received.
§ 396. [350.] Existing suit.!—Persons for whom action is brought
or defended may be examined.
A person for whose immediate benefit the action is prosecuted
or defended, though not a party to the action, may be examined as
a witness, in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of
examination, as if he were named as a party.
§ 397. (Am'd 1851, 1852.) Existing suits—Examination of co-
plaintiff or co-defendant.
A party may be examined on behalf of his co-plaintiff, or of a
co-defendant, as to any matter in whicli he is not jointly interested
or liable with such co-plaintiff or co-defendant, and as to which a
separate and not joint verdict or judgment can be rendered. And
he may be compelled to attend in the same manner as at the in
stance of an adverse party ; but the examination thus taken shall
not be used in the behalf of the party examined. And whenever,
in the case mentioned in sections three hundred and ninety and
three hundred and ninety-one, one of several plaintiffs or defend
ants who are joint contractors, or are united in interest, is examined
by the adverse party, the other of such plaintiffs or defendants may
offer himself as a witness to the same cause of action or defence,
and shall be so received.
Chapter VII.
Examination of Witnesses.
Section 898. Interest not to exclude a witness.
399. Parties to actions and special proceedings may be witnesses on
their own behalf, except in certain cases.
§ 398. [351.] Existing suits—Interest not to exclude a witness.
No person offered as a witness shall be excluded by reason of
his interest in the event of the action.
§ 399. [352.] (Am'd 1851, 1857, 1858, 1859, 1860, 1862, 1863.)
Existing suits—Parties to actions and special proceedings may be exam
ined as witnesses on their own behalf, except in certain cases.
A party to an action or special proceeding, including proceed
ings in surrogates' courts and proceedings for the summary recov
ery of the possession of land, may be .examined as a witness on his
own behalf, or in behalf of any other party, in the same manner,
and subject to the same rules of examination, as any other wit
nesses ; provided, however, that the assignor of a thing in action
shall not be examined in behalf of said party, nor shall a party to
an action be examined in his own behalf in respect to any transac
tion or communication had personally by said assignor, or said
party, respectively, with a deceased person, against parties who
are the executors, administrators, heirs-at-law, next of kin, or as
signees of such deceased person, where they have acquired title to
the cause of action immediately from such deceased person, or have
been sued as such by the executors, administrators, heirs-at-law,
next of kin, or assignees. But where such executors, administra
tors, heirs-at-law, next of kin, or assiguees shall be examined on
their own behalf in regard to any conversation or transaction
had between the deceased person and said assignor, or said party,
respectively, then the said assignor or the said party may be ex
amined in regard to snch conversation or transaction, but not in
regard to any new matter.
But if the testimony of a party to the action or proceeding has
been taken, and he shall afterwards die, and after his death the
testimony so taken shall be used upon any trial or hearing, in be
half of his executors, administrators, heirs-at-law, next of kin, or
assignees, the other party, or the assignor of a thing in action, shall
be a competent witness, as to any and all matters to which the tes
timony so taken relates, notwithstanding anything in this section
contained to the contrary thereof.
§ 400. [357.] Definition of an order.
Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered in writing,
and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order.
§ 401. [358 to 362.] (Am'd 1849, 1852, 1858, 1859, 1862.) Defi
nition of a motion. Motions, how and where made. Motions in the
first district. Stay of proceedings. Compelling parties to testify.
(1.) An application for an order is a motion.
(2.) Motions may be made, in the first judicial district, to a
judge or justice out of court, except for a new trial on the merits.
(3.) Orders made out of court, without notice, may be made by
any judge of the court, in any part of the State ; and they may
also be made by a county judge of the county where the action is
triable, or by the county judge of the county in which the attor
ney for the moving party resides, except, to stay proceedings after
verdict.
(4.) Motions upon notice must be made within the district in
which the action is triable, or in a county adjoining that in which
it is triable ; except that where the action is triable in the first
judicial district, the motion must be made therein, and no motion
upon notice can be made in the first judicial district, in an action
triable elsewhere.
(5.) In all the districts, a motion to vacate or modify a provi
sional remedy, and an appeal from an order allowing a provisional
remedy, shall have preference over all other motions.
(6.) No order to stay proceedings for a longer time than twenty
days shall be granted by a judge out of court, except upon previous
notice to the adverse party.
When any party intends to make or oppose a motion in any
court of record, and it shall be necessary for him to have the affi
davit of any person who shall have refused to make the same, such
court may, by order, appoint a referee to take the affidavit or de
position of such person. Such person may be subpoenaed and
compelled to attend and make an affidavit before such referee; the
same as before a referee to whom it is referred to try an issue.
And the fees of such referee for such service shall be three dollars
per day.
§ 402. [363.] (Am'd 1849.) Notice of motion.
When a notice of a motion is necessary, it must be served eight
days before the time appointed for the hearing ; but the court or
judge may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a shorter time.
§ 403. [364.] In actions in the supreme court, county judge may
exercise powers of a judge at chambers. His orders, how reviewed.
In an action in the supreme court, a county judge, in addition
to the powers conferred upou him by this act, may exercise, withiu
his county, the powers of a judge of the supreme court at chambers,
according to the existing practice, except as otherwise provided in
this act. And in all eases where an order is made by a county
judge, it may be reviewed in the same manner as if it had been
made by a judge of the supreme court.
§404. [365.] (Am'd 1849.) In absence, Jbc, of judge at cham
bers, motion may be transferred by him to another judge.
When notice of a motion is given, or an order to show cause is
returnable before a judge out of court, and at the time fixed for the
motion he is absent or unable to hear it, the same may be trans
ferred, by his order, to some other judge, before whom the motion
might originally have been made.
§ 405. [366.] (Am'd 1849.) Enlarging time for proceedings in
an action.
The time within which any proceeding in an action must be
had, after its commencement, except the time within which 8n ap
peal must be taken, may be enlarged, upon an affidavit showing
grounds therefor, by a judge of the court, or if the action be in the
supreme court, by a county judge. The affidavit, or a copy thereof,
must be served, with a copy of the order, or the order may be dis
regarded.
Chapter IX.
§ 406. [367.] Existing suite—Affidavits defectively entitled, valid.
It shall not be necessary to entitle an affidavit in the action,
but an affidavit made without a title, or with a defective title, shall
be as valid and effectual, for every purpose, as if it were duly en
titled, if it intelligibly refer to the action or proceeding in which
it is made.
Chapter X.
Computation of Time.
§ 407. [368.] Existing suits— Time, how computed.
The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day, and including the
last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
Chapter XI.
Notices, and Filing and Service of Papers.
Suction 408. Notices, Ac, how served.
409. Service, how made.
410. Service by mail.
411. The like.
412. Double time where service by mail.
413. Notice of motion, Ac, where personally served.
414. When papers need not be served on defendant.
415. Service of papers where parties reside out of the State.
416. Summons and pleadings to be filed.
417. Service on attorney.
418. When this chapter does not apply.
§ 408. [369.] Existing suits—Notices, &c, how served.
Notices shall be in writing ; and notices and other papers may
be served on the party or attorney, in the manner prescribed in
the next three sections, where not otherwise provided by this act.
§ 409. [370.] Existing suits—Service, how made.
The service may be personal, or by delivery to the party or
attorney on whom the service is required to be made ; or it may be
as follows :
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from
his office, by leaving the paper with his clerk therein, or with a
person having charge thereof; or, when there is no person in the
office, by leaving it, between the houre of six in the morning and
nine in the evening, in a conspicuous place in the office ; or, if it
be not open so as to admit of such service, then by leaving it at
the attorney's residence, with some person of suitable age and dis
cretion.
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper at his
residence, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the
evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
S 410. [371.] Existing suits—Service by mail.
Service by mail may be made where the person making the
service and the person on whom it is to be made reside in dif
ferent places, between which there is a regular communication by
mail.
§411. [372.] Existing suits—Service by Mail.
In case of service by mail, the paper must be deposited in the
post-office, addressed to the person on whom it is to be served, at
his place of residence, and the postage paid.
§412. [373.] (Am'd 1849, 1859.) Existing suiis—Double time
when served by mail.
Where the service is by mail, it shall be double the time re
quired in cases of personal service, except service of notice of trial,
which may be made sixteen days before the day of trial, including
the day of service.
§413. [374.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits—Notice of motion, &c,
when personally served.
Notice of a motion, or other proceeding before a court or judge,
when personally served, shall be given at least eight days before
the time appointed therefor.
§414. [315.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits— When papers
not be served on defendant.
Where a defendant shall not have demurred or answered, serv
ice of notice or papers, in the ordinary proceedings in an action,
need not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of
a bail, but shall be made upon him or his attorney, if notice of
appearance in the action has been given.
§415. [376.] (Am'd 1849.) Existing suits—Service of papers
where parties reside out of the State.
Where a plaintiff or a defendant who has demurred or an
swered, or gives notice of appearance, resides out of the State,
and has no attorney in the action, the service may be made by
mail, if his residence be known ; if not known, on the clerk for
the party.
§416. [377.] Summons and pleadings to be filed.
The summons and the several pleadings in an action shall be
filed with the clerk within ten days after the service thereof, re
spectively, or the adverse party, on proof of the omission, shall be
entitled, without notice, to an order from a judge that the same be
filed within a time to be specified in the order, or be deemed
abandoned.
§ 417. [378.] Existing suits—Service on attorney.
Where a party shall have an attorney in the action, the service
of papers shall be made upon the attorney, instead of the party.
§ 418. [379.] Existing suits— When this chapter does not apply.
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the service of
a summons, or other process, or of any paper to bring a party into
contempt.
§419. [380.] (Am'd 1849.) Duty of sheriff and coroner in serv
ing or executing process, and hoic enforced.
Whenever, pursuant to this act, the sheriff may be required to
serve or execute any summons, order, or judgment, or to do any
other act, he shall be bound to do so in like manner as upon pro
cess issued to him, and shall be equally liable in all respects for
neglect of duty ; and if the sheriff be a party, the coroner shall be
bound to perform the service, as he is now bound to execute pro
cess where the sheriff is a party ; and all the provisions of this
act relating to sheriffs shall apply to coroners when the sheriff is
a party.
Chapter XIII.
Accountability of Guardians.
s; 420. [881.] GmanlMH not to receiec property until security
giren.
No guardian appointed for an infant shall be permitted to re-
wive property of the infant, until he shall have given sufficient
security, approved by a judge of the court or a county judge, to
account for and apply the same, under the direction of the court.
Chapter XIV.
Awn of Referees.
§421. [888.] /\sum of nfern*.
Kvery referee appointed pursuant to this act shall have power
to administer oaths in any proceeding before him, and shall have
generally the powers now vested in a referee by law.
§ 422. Papers lost or withheld, how supplied.
If an original pleading or paper be lost or withheld by any
person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and used
instead of the original.
§ 423. Where undertakings to be filed.
The various undertakings required to be given by this act must
be filed with the clerk of the court, unless the court expressly pro
vides for a different disposition thereof, except that the under
takings provided for by the chapter on the claim and delivery of
personal property, shall, after the justification of the sureties, be
delivered by the sheriff to the parties respectively for whose bene
fit they are taken.
§ 424. Judgment on bond and warrant of attorney executed before
July 1, 1848.
Upon any bond and warrant of attorney, executed and deliv
ered before the first day of July, 1848, judgment may be entered
in the manner provided by sections 382, 383, and 384, upon the
plaintiff's filing such bond and warrant of attorney, and the state
ment, signed and verified by himself, in the form prescribed by
section 382.
§ 425. Time for publication of notices, how computed.
The time for publication of legal notices shall be computed so
as to exclude the first day of publication and include the day on
which the act or event, of which notice is given, is to happen, or
which completes the full period required for publication.
§ 426. Laws of other States and governments, how proved.
Printed copies in volumes of statutes, code, or other written
law, enacted by any other State or Territory, or foreign govern
ment, purporting or proved to have been published by the author
ity thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the
existing law in the courts and judicial tribunals of such State,
. Territory, or government, shall be admitted by the courts and
officers of this State, on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of
such laws. The unwritten or common law of any other State or
Territory, or foreign government, may be proved as facts by parol
evidence ; and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their
courts may also be admitted as presumptive evidence of such law.
TITLE XIII.
Actions in Particular Cases.
Chapter I. Actions against foreign corporations.
II. Actions in place of scire facias, quo warranto, and of informa
tions in the nature of a quo warranto.
III. Actions for the partition of reai property.
IV. Actions to determine conflicting claims to real property, and for
waste and nuisance.
V. General provisions relating to actions concerning real property.
Chapter I.
Actions against Foreign Corporations.
§ 427. Where and by whom brought.
An action against a corporation created by or under the laws
of any other State, government, or country, may be brought in
the supreme court, the superior court of the city of New York, or
the court of common pleas for the city and county of New York,
in the following cases :
1. By a resident of this State, for any cause of action.
2. By a plaintiff not a resident of this State, when the cause
of action shall have arisen, or the subject of the action shall be
situated, within this State.
§ 428. Scire facias and quo warranto abolished, and this chapter
substituted.
The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto, and proceed
ings by information in the nature of quo warranto, are abolished;
and the remedies heretofore obtainable in those forms may be ob
tained by civil actions under the provisions of this chapter. But
any proceeding heretofore commenced, or judgment rendered, or
right acquired, shall not be affected by such abolition.
§ 429. Action may be brought by attorney-general to vacate a char
ter, by direction of the legislature.
An action may be brought by the attorney-general, in the name
of the people of this State, whenever the legislature shall so direct,
against a corporation, for the purpose of vacating or annulling the
act of incorporation, or an act renewing its corporate existence, on
the ground that such act or renewal was procured upon some
fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact, by the
person incorporated, or by some of them, or with their knowledge
and consent.
§ 430. Action to annul a corporation, when and how brought by
attorney-general, by leave of supreme court.
An action may be brought by the attorney-general, in the name
of the people of this State, on leave granted by the supreme court
or a judge thereof, for the purpose of vacating the charter or an
nulling the existence of a corporation, other than municipal, when
ever such corporation shall —
1. Offend against any of the provisions of the act or acts creat
ing, altering, or renewing such corporation ; or,
2. Violate the provisions of any law by which such corporation
shall have forfeited its charter by abuse of its powers ; or,
3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or franchises
by failure to exercise its powers ; or,
4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act which
amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges, and
franchises; or,
5. Whenever it shall exercise a franchise or privilege not con
ferred upon it by law.
And it shall be the duty of the attorney-general, whenever he
shall have reason to believe that any of these acts or omissions
can be established by proof, to apply for leave, and upon leave
granted to bring the action, in every case of public interest, and
also in every other case in which satisfactory security shall be
given to indemnify the people of this State against the costs and
expenses to be incurred thereby.
§ 481. Leave, how obtained.
Leave to bring the action may be granted upon the application
of the attorney-general ; and the court or judge may, at discretion,
direct notice of such application to be given to the corporation or
its officers, previous to granting such leave, and may hear the cor
poration in opposition thereto.
§ 432. Action upon information or complaint, of course.
An action may be brought by the attorney-general in the name
of the people of this State, upon his own information, or upon the
complaint of any private party, against the parties offending in the
following cases:
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully
hold or exercise any public office, civil or military, or any franchise
within this State, or any office in a corporation created by the au
thority of this State ; or
2. When any public officer, civil or military, shall have done
or suffered an act which, by the provisions of law, shall make a
forfeiture of his office ; or
3. When any association or number of persons shall act within
this State as a corporation, without being duly incorporated.
§ 433. Action, when and how brought to vacate letters patent.
An action may be brought by the attorney-general, in the name
of the people of this State, for the purpose of vacating or annulling
letters patent granted by the people of this State, in the following
cases :
1. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent
were obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or conceal
ment of a material fact, made by the person to whom the same
were issued or made, or with his consent or knowledge ; or
2. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent
were issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a material fact ;
or,
3. When he shall have reason to believe that the patentee, or
those claiming under him, have done or omitted an act, in viola
tion of the terms and conditions on which the letters patent were
granted, or have by any other means forfeited the interest acquired
under the same.
§ 434. Relator, when to be joined as plaintiff.
When an action shall be brought by the attorney-general, by
virtue of this chapter, on the relation or information of a person
having an interest in the question, the name of such person shall
be joined with the people as plaintiff.
§ 435. Complaint and arrest of defendant in action for usurping
an office.
Whenever such action shall be brought against a person for
usurping an office, the attorney-general, in addition to the state
ment of the cause of action, may also set forth in the complaint the
name of the person rightfully entitled to the office, with a state
ment of his right thereto ; and in such case, upon proof by affidavit
that the defendant has received fees or emoluments belonging to
the office, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order maybe
granted by a judge of the supreme court for the arrest of such de
fendant, and holding him to bail ; and thereupon he shall be ar
rested and held to bail, in the manner, and with the same effects
and subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in other civil ac
tions where the defendant is subject to arrest.
§ 436. Judgment in such actions.
In every such case, judgment shall be rendered upon the right
of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so alleged to
be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall
require.
§ 437. Assumption of office, &c, by relator, when judgment is in
his favor.
If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, he
shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office, and executing such
official bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself the
execution of the office ; and it shall be his duty, immediately there
after, to demand of the defendant in the action all the books and
papers in his custody, or within his power, belonging to the office?'
from which he shall have been excluded. r^
§ 438. Proceedings against defendant, on refusal to deliver
or papers.
If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver over sr
books or papers, pursuant to the demand, he shall be deemed g^
of a misdemeanor, and the same proceedings shall be had, and i
the same effect, to compel delivery of such books and paper,.
'fcg
at
chi
.f
:
are prescribed in article 5, title 6, chapter 6, of the first part of
the Revised Statutes.
§ 439. Damages, how recovered.
If judgment be rendered, upon the right of the person so al
leged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may recover, by
action, the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of the
usurpation by the defendant of the office from which such defend
ant has been excluded.
§ 440. One action against several persons claiming office or
Where several persons claim to be entitled to the same office or
franchise, one action may be brought against all such persons, in
order to try their respective rights to such office or franchise.
§ 441. Penalty for usurping office or franchise, how awarded.
When a defendant, whether a natural person or a corporation,
against whom such action shall have been brought, shall be ad
judged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully holding
or exercising any office, franchise, or privilege, judgment shall be
rendered that such defendant be excluded from such office, fran
chise, or privilege, and also that the plaintiff recover costs against
such defendant. The court may also, in its discretion, fine such
defendant a sum not exceeding two thousand dollars, which fine,
when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the State.
§ 442. Judgment of forfeiture against a corporation.
If it shall be adjudged that a corporation against which an ac
tion shall have been brought pursuant to this chapter, has, by
neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, privi
leges, and franchises, judgment shall be rendered that the corpo
ration be excluded from such corporate rights, privileges, and fran
chises, and that the corporation be dissolved.
§ 443. Costs against corporation, or persons claiming to be such,
how collected.
If judgment be rendered in such action against a corporation,
or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may
cause the costs therein to be collected by execution against the
persons claiming to be a corporation, or by attachment or process
against the directors or other officers of such corporation.
§ 444. Restraining corporation, and appointment of receiver.
When such judgment shall be rendered against a corporation,
the court shall have the same power to restrain the corporation, to
appoint a receiver of its property, and to take an account, and
make distribution thereof among its creditors, as are given in ar
ticle 3, title 4, chapter 8, of the third part of the Revised Statutes;
and it shall be the duty of the attorney-general, immediately after
the rendition of such judgment, to institute proceedings for that
purpose.
§ 445. Copy of judgment-roll against corporation, where to be
filed.
Upon the rendition of such judgment against a corporation, or
for the vacating or annulling of letters patent, it shall be the duty
of the attorney-general to cause a copy of the judgment-roll to be
forthwith filed in the office of the secretary of state.
§ 446. Entry ofjudgment relating to letters patent.
Such secretary shall thereupon, if the record relates to letters
patent, make an entry in the records of the commissioners of the
land office, of the substance and effect of such judgment, and of the
time when the record thereof was docketed ; and the real property
granted by such letters patent may thereafter be dispose^ of by
such commissioners, in the same manner as if such letters patent
had never been issued.
§ 447. Actions for forfeiture of properly to the people.
Whenever, by the provisions of law, any property, real or per
sonal, shall be forfeited to the people of this State, or to any officer
for their use, an action for the recovery of such property, alleging
the grounds of the forfeiture, may be brought by the proper officer,
in the supreme court.
\
Chapter III.
Action for the Partition of Real Property.
§ 448. Provisions of the revised statutes applicable to actions of
partition.
The provisions of the revised statutes relating to the partition
of lands, tenements, and hereditaments, held or possessed by joint
tenants or tenants in common, shall apply to actions for such par
tition brought under this act, so far as the same can be so applied
to the substance and subject-matter of the action, without regard
to its form.
Chapter IV.
Actions to Determine Conflicting Claims to Real Property, and for
Waste and Nuisance,
Section 449. Actions to determine claims to real property, how prosecuted.
450. Action of waste abolished. Waste, how remediable.
451. Provisions of revised statutes applicable to action for waste under
this act.
452. When judgment of forfeiture and eviction to be given.
453. Writ of nuisance abolished.
454. Remedy for injuries heretofore remediable by writ of nuisance.
§ 449. Action to determine claims to real property* how prosecuted.
Proceedings to compel the determination of claims to real
property, pursuant to the provisions of the revised statutes, may
be prosecuted by action under this act, without regard to the forms
of the proceedings as they are prescribed by those statutes.*
§ 450. Actum of waste abolished. Waste, how remediable.
The action of waste is abolished : but any proceeding hereto
fore commenced, or judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall
not be affected thereby. Wrongs heretofore remediable by action
of waste are subjects of action as other wrongs, in which action
there may be judgment for damages, forfeiture of the estate of the
party offending, and eviction from the premises.
§ 451. Provisions of revised statutes applicable to action for waste
under this act.
The provisions of the revised statutes relating to the action of
waste shall apply to an action for waste brought under this act,
without regard to the form of the action, so far as the same can be
so applied.
g 452. When judgment of forfeiture and eviction to be given.
Judgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given in favor
of the person entitled to the reversion, against the tenant in pos
session, when the iujury to the estate in reversion shall be ad
judged in the action to be equal to the value of the tenant's estate
or unexpired torn), or to have been done in malice.
§ 458. Writ of nuisance abolished.
The writ of nuisance is abolished ; but any proceedings here
tofore commenced, or any judgment rendered, or right acquired,
shall not be affected thereby.
§ 454. Remnbf for injuria heretofore remediable bg writ of mn-
MM(V.
Injuries heretofore remediable by writ of nuisance are subjects
of action, as other injuries; and in such action there may b* judg
ment for damages, or for the removal of the nuisance, or both.
Chapter V.
it
General Provisions relating to Actions concerning Real Property.
§ 455. Provisions of revised statutes applicable thereto.
The general provisions of the revised statutes relating to ac
tions concerning real property shall apply to actions brought under
this act, according to the subject-matter of the action, and without
regard to its form.
j TITLI../ TITLE XIV. , ./ .
Provisions relating to Existing Suits.
Section 456. Appeal from order at special term, on a summary application after
judgment.
457. Writ of error abolished, and appeal substituted.
458. Execution on judgment docketed prior to July 1, 1848.
459. Application of this act to actions pending. Extraordinary terms.
460. Appeal from certain final decrees allowed.
461. Issue of fact in county court, how tried.
§ 456. Appeal from order at a special term, on summary applica
tion after judgment.
The appeal mentioned in section 9 of the act to facilitate the
determination of existing suits in the courts of this State, may
also be taken from an order made at a special term, on a summary
application in an action after judgment, when such order involves
the merits of the application, or some part thereof.
§ 457. Writ of error in all cases abolished. Appeal substituted.
No writ of error shall be hereafter issued in any case whatever.
Wherever a right now exists to have a review of a judgment ren
dered, or order or decree made, before the first day of July, 1848,
such review can only be had upon an appeal taken in the manner
provided by this act ; and all appeals heretofore taken from such
judgments, orders, or decrees, under the provisions of the code of
procedure, which are still pending in an appellate court, and not
dismissed, shall be valid and effectual. But this section shall not
extend the right of review to any case or question to which it
does not now extend, nor the time for appealing, nor shall it apply
to a case where a writ of error has been already issued.
§ 458. Execution, when issuable on a judgment docketed before
July 1, 1848.
An execution may be issued, without leave of the court, upon
a judgment docketed before the first day of July, 1848, or now or
hereafter to be rendered in an action pending on that day, at any
time within five years after the rendering of the judgment.
§ 459. (Am'd 1851.) Application of this act to actions pending.
Extraordinary terms.
The provisions of this act apply to future proceedings in actions
or suits heretofore commenced and now pending, as follows :
1. If there have been no pleading therein, to the pleadings and
all subsequent proceedings ;
2. When there is an issue of law or of fact, or any other ques
tion of fact to be tried, to the trial and all subsequent proceedings ;
3. After a judgment or order, to the proceedings to enforce,
vacate, modify, or reverse it, including the costs of an appeal.
Whenever the judges of the supreme court in any district find that
the court at any term or circuit has not been, or will not be, able
to dispose of all the cases upon the calendar, they may request
the governor to' assign other judges, and, if necessary, appoint ex
traordinary terms and circuits, for the purpose of disposing of
such cases. The governor may thereupon make such assignment,
and the judges assigned must hold tho courts accordingly.
§460. (Am'd 1851, 1852, 1858.) Appeal from certain final de
crees allowed.
An appeal may be taken from any final decree entered upon
the direction of a single judge, in any suit in equity pending in
the supreme court on the first day of July, 1847, at any time be
fore the first day of November, 1852. But this provision shall not
apply to cases where a rehearing has already been had or ordered,
or to the case of a- decree entered before the passage of this act,
and to review which no attempt in good faith has been or shall
have been made within thirty days after notice of the entry of
euch decree. Such appeal shall be taken in the manner provided
in sections 327 and 348. In all cases of appeal to the court of
appeals, in actions which were originally commenced in the late
court of chancery of this State, the court of appeals shall review
the cause upon the facts and the law, without any statement or
specification of facts found, or any exception taken at the trial of
any or either of them. And it shall be, and is hereby declared to
be, the duty of the court of appeals, in any and all such cases, to
review the whole matter upon the evidence as well as the law.
§ 461. Issue of fact in county court, how tried.
An issue of fact joined in a county court, or court of common
pleas, "before the first day of July, 1848, or then pending in that
court on appeal, shall be tried by a jury, unless the parties other
wise agree.
Section 462.
483.
464.
405.
4613.
467.
4CS.
409.
470.
471.
472.
473.
TITLE XV.
General Provisions.
Definition of real property.
Definition of personal property.
Definition of property.
Definition of district.
Definition of clerk.

SEC. of construction.
Inconsistent statutory provisions repealed.
Inconsistent rules and practice abrogated.
Judges to meet and make general rules.
Certain proceedings and statutory provisions not affected by this
act.
Certain statutes repealed.
Act. when to take effect.
§462. [383.] Definition of " real property."
The words " real property," as used in this act, are co-extensive
with lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
§463. [384.] Definition of'" personal property"
The words " personal property," as used in this act, include
money, goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt.
§ 464. [385.] Definition of "property."
The word "property," as used in this act," includes property
real and personal.
§465. [886.] Definition of " district"
The word " district," as used in this act, signifies judicial dis
trict, except when otherwise specified.
§466. [387.] Definition of " clerk."
The word " clerk," as used in this act, signifies the clerk of the
court where the action is pending, and, in the supreme court, the
clerk of the county mentioned in the title of the complaint, or in
another county to which the court may have changed the place of
trial, unless otherwise specified.
§ 467. Rule of construction.
The rule of common law, that statutes in derogation of that
law are to be strictly construed, has no application to this act.
§468. [388.] (Am'd 1849.) Statutory provisions inconsistent with
this act repealed.
All statutory provisions inconsistent with this act are repealed
but this repeal shall not revive a statute or law which may have
been repealed or abolished by the provisions hereby repealed.
And all rights of action given or secured by existing laws may be
prosecuted in the manner provided by this act. If a case shall
arise in which an action for the enforcement or protection of a
right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had un
der this act, the practice heretofore in use may be adopted so far
as may be necessary to prevent a failure of justice.
§ 469. [389.] (Am'd 1849.) Rules and practice inconsistent with
this act abrogated.
The present rules and practice of the courts in civil actions,
inconsistent with this act, are abrogated; but where consistent
with this act, they shall continue in force, subject to the power o
the respective courts to relax, modify, or alter the same.
§ 470. (Am'd 1851, 1852.) Judges to meet and make general
rules.
The judges of the supreme court, of the superior court of the
city of New York, and of the court of common pleas for the city
and county of New York, shall meet in general session at the capitol
in the city of Albany, on the first Wednesday in August, 1862,
and every two years thereafter ; and at such sessions shall revise
their general rules, and make such amendments thereto, and such
further rules not inconsistent with this code, as may be necessary
to carry it into full effect. The rules so made shall govern the
supreme court, the superior court of the city of New York, the
court of common pleas for the city and county of New York, and
the county courts, so far as the same may be applicable.
§ 471. [390.] (Am'd 1849, 1852, 1862, 1863.) This act not to
affect certain proceedings and statutory provisions.
Until the legislature shall otherwise provide, the second part of
this act shall not affect proceedings upon mandamus or prohibi
tion ; " nor appeals from surrogates' courts, except that the costs on
such appeal shall be regulated and allowed in the manner pro
vided in section three hundred and eighteen of this act ; nor any
special statutory remedy not heretofore obtained by action ; nor
any existing statutory provisions relating to actions not inconsist
ent with this act, and in substance applicable to the actions hereby
provided ; nor any proceedings provided for by chapter five of the
second part of the Revised Statutes, or by the sixth and eighth
titles of chapter five of the third part of those statutes, or by chap
ter eight of the same part, excluding the second and twelfth titles
thereof, or by the first title of chapter nine of the same part ; ex
cept that when, in consequence of any such proceeding, a civil ac
tion shall be brought, such action shall be conducted in conformity
to this act ; and except, also, that where any particular provision
of the titles and chapters enumerated in this section shall be
plainly inconsistent with this act, such provision shall be deemed
repealed.
In actions or proceedings by mandamus, amendments of any
mistakes in the process, pleadings or proceedings therein may be
allowed, and shall be made in conformity to the provisions of chap
ter six, title six, of the second part of the Code of Procedure.
§ 472. Certain parts of Revised and other Statutes not repealed.
Nothing in this act contained shall be taken to repeal section
28 of article 2 of title 5 of chapter 6, part third, of the Revised
Statutes, or to repeal an act to extend the exemption of household
furniture and working tools from distress for rent and sale under
execution, passed April 11, 1842.
§ 473. [391.] (Am'd 1849.) This act, when to take effect.
This act shall take effect on the first day of July, 1 848 ; except
that sections 22, 23, 24 and 25 shall take effect immediately.

SEC. I. The return. —When the appeal is from a judgment, the
return of the clerk of the court below shall consist of certified
copies of the notice of appeal and the judgment-roll. When the
appeal is from such an order as is mentioned in the eleventh sec
tion of the code of procedure, the return shall consist of certified
copies of the notice of appeal, the order appealed from, and the
papers on which the court below acted in making the order.

SEC. II. Appellant to file return ; effect of his omission. —The
appellant shall cause the proper return to be made and filed with
the clerk of this court, within twenty days after the appeal shall
be perfected. If he fail to do so, the respondent may, by notice in
writing, require such return to be filed within ten days after ser
vice of the notice ; and if the return be not filed in pursuance of
such notice, the appellant shall be deemed to have waived the ap
peal ; and on an affidavit proving when the appeal was perfected,
and the service of such notice, and a certificate of the clerk that no
return has been filed, the respondent may enter an order with the
clerk dismissing the appeal for want of prosecution, with costs ;
and the court below may thereupon proceed as though there had
been no appeal.

SEC. III. Further return may be ordered. —If the return made
by the clerk of the court below shall be defective, either party
may, on an affidavit specifying the defect, apply to one of the
judges of this court for an order that the clerk make a further
return without delay.

SEC. IV. Attorneys and guardians below to continue to act. —
The attorneys and guardians ad litem of the respective parties in
the court below, shall be deemed the attorneys and guardians of
the same parties respectively in this court, until others shall be
retained or appointed, and notice thereof shall be served to the ad
verse party.
Rdxe V. Appellant to make a case ; its form.—In all calendar
causes a case shall be made by the appellant, which shall consist
of a copy of the return of the clerk, and the reasons of the court
below for its judgment, or an affidavit that the same cannot be pro
cured. If the case is voluminous, an index to the pleadings, ex
hibits, depositions, and other principal matters shall be added.
Every opinion in the cause, at special term as well as at gen- -
eral term, relating to the questions involved in the appeal, is in
cluded by the foregoing provisions.

SEC. VI. Cases and points to be printed ; mode of printing. —
All cases and points, and all other papers furnished to the court in
calendar causes, shall be printed on white writing paper, with a
margin on the outer edge of the leaf not less than one and a half
inch wide. The printed page, exclusive of any marginal note or
reference, shall be seven inches long and three and a half inches
wide. The folio, numbering from the commencement to the end
of the case, shall be printed on the outer margin of the page.
Small pica, solid, is the smallest letter and most compact mode of
composition which is allowed. No charge for printing the papers
mentioned in this rule shall be allowed as a disbursement in a
cause, unless the requirements of the preceding sentence shall be
shown by affidavit to have been complied with, in all papers printed
after August 1, Wd*l.

SEC. VII. Appellant to serve copies of case ; effect of his default.
—Within forty days after the appeal is perfected, the appellant
shall serve three printed copies of the case on the attorney of the
adverse party. If he fail to do so, the respondent may, by notice
in writing, require the service of such copies within ten days after
the service of the notice, and if the copies be not served in pursu
ance of such notice, the appellant shall be deemed to have waived
the appeal ; and on an affidavit proving the default, and the ser
vice of such notice, the respondent may enter an order with the
clerk dismissing the appeal for want of prosecution, with costs ;
and the court below may thereupon proceed as though there had
been no appeal.
Bule VIII. Notice of argument ; calendar. —Either party may
bring on the argument on a notice of eight days ; which notice, ex
cept in criminal cases, shall be for the first day of the term.
A copy of the notice, specifying the judicial district in which
the cause originated, shall be furnished to the clerk eight days
before the first day of the term.
The clerk shall make a calendar of the causes thus noticed,
arranging them in the order in which the returns were filed,
specifying the judicial district in which the causes originated
respectively.
Copies of the calendar for the use of the judges, and six other
copies to be delivered to the clerk, shall be printed, in like manner
aa cases and points are directed to be printed.

SEC. IX. Copies of cases for judges and copies of points for
the court and adverse party. —At the commencement of the argument
the appellant shall furnish a printed copy of the case to each of
the judges, and shall deliver six other copies to the clerk. Each
party shall, at the same time, furnish to each of the judges a
printed copy of the points on which he intends to rely, with a
reference to the authority which he intends to cite ; and shall de
liver six other copies to the clerk, and three copies to the counsel
of the adverse party.
The cases, points and calendars delivered to the clerk shall be
disposed of as follows : one copy of each shall be kept by the clerk
with the records of the court, one copy shall be deposited in the
State library, one copy shall be deposited in each branch of the
library of the court of appeals, one copy shall be deposited in the
library of the New York Law Institute, and one copy shall be de
livered to the reporter.

SEC. X. Statement of facts on the points. Discussion on ques
tions of fact. —In all cases each party shall briefly state upon his
printed points the leading facts which he deems established, with
a reference to the folios where the evidence of such facts may be
found. And the court will not hear an extended discussion upon
any mere question of fact.

SEC. XI. Judgment of affirmance or reversal by default. —The
party who has noticed and placed the cause on the calendar for
argument, may take judgment of affirmance or reversal, as the
case may be, if the other party shall neglect to appear and argue
the cause, or shall neglect to furnish and deliver cases of points as
required by the ninth and tenth rules.

SEC. XII. Only one counsel to be heard on each side, unless by
order. —In the argument of calendar causes and motions, only one
counsel shall be heard on each side, unless the court shall other
wise direct.

SEC. XIII. Criminal cases preferred on calendar. —Criminal
cases shall have a preference, and may be moved, on behalf of the
people, out of their order on the calendar.

SEC. XIV. Submitting case on printed arguments. — Causes
which have not been exchanged may be submitted at any time in
term on printed arguments. Exchanged causes cannot be sub
mitted until reached upon the calendar.

SEC. XV. Motions. —Motions will be heard on the morning of
the first day, and on the morning of each following Tuesday and
Friday during the term, before taking up the calendar.
Where notice has been given of a motion, if no one shall ap
pear to oppose, it will be granted as of course.
If a motion be not made on the day for which it has been
noticed, the opposing party will be entitled, on applying to the
court at the close of the motions for that day, to a rule denying
the motion, with costs.

SEC. XVI. Remittitur. —The remittitur shall contain a copy
of the judgment of this court, and the return made by the clerk
of the court below ; and shall be sealed with the seal, and signed
by the clerk, of this court.

SEC. XVII. On affirmance or reversal by default, remittitur to
be stayed. —When a decree or order shall be affirmed or reversed
by the default of either party, the remittitur shall not be sent to
the court below, unless this court shall otherwise direct, until ten
days after notice of the affirmance or reversal shall have been
served on the attorney of the party in default. Service of the
notice shall be proved to the clerk by affidavit, or by the written
admission of the attorney on whom it was served.

SEC. XVIII. Enlarging time. Revolting orders. — The time
prescribed by these rules for doing any act, may be enlarged by
the court or by either of the judges thereof; and either of the
judges may make orders to stay proceedings, which, when served
with papers and notice of motion, shall stay the proceedings ac
cording to the terms of the order. Any order may be revoked or
modified by the judge who made it, or, in case of his absence or
inability to act, by either of the other judges.

SEC. XIX. Rules, when to take effect. —These rules shall take
effect on the first day of July next, from which time all former
rules are abrogated, except so far as it may be necessary to follow
them upon appeals and writs of error which shall be then pend
ing.

SEC. XX. Call of Calendar. —Ten causes only will be called
on any day, but after such call, cause sready on both sides will be
heard in their order. Any cause which is regularly called and
passed without postponement by the court- for good cause shown,
at the time of the call, will be placed on all subsequent calendars
as if the return had been filed on the day when it was so passed.
Causes upon the calendar may be exchanged one for another of
course, on filing with the clerk in court a note of the proposed ex
change with the numbers of the causes, signed by the respective
attorneys or counsel. Upon all subsequent calendars, each of said
causes will take the place due to the date of the filing of the re
turn in the other.
Any cause, except the first ten upon the calendar, may be
struck therefrom before it is reached, of course tad without pre
judice, by the clerk in court, on consent of the parties who placed
the same upon the calendar, at any time during the first week of
the term.

SEC. XXI. Duty of clerk as to exchanged causes and calendar.
—The clerk must keep a memorandum of such exchanged and
passed causes, and place them upon all subsequent calendars, in
accordance with the foregoing provisions.
Rules VI., X., XX., and XII., with a notice that " 14 copies of
cases and points are required," must be printed on the first leaf of
the calendar.

SEC. XXII. Each counsel limited, to two hours. —In the argu
ment of a cause, not more than two hours shall be occupied Dy
each counsel, except by the express permission of the court.

SEC. XXIII. (Adopted June, 1860.) Preferred causes. —Ac
cording to existing laws, causes which are preferred take their
preference in the following order :
1. Criminal actions.
2. Cases of probate, in which the appeal prevents the issuing
of letters testamentary or of general administration.
3. Appeals in which the sole plaintiffs or defendants are execu
tors or administrators.
4. All other preferred cases.
Any party claiming a preference must so state in his notice of
argument to the opposite party, and to the clerk ; and he must also
state the ground of such preference, so as to show to which of the
above classes the case belongs. In making up the calendar, the
clerk will place the preferred causes at the head in the order above
prescribed. A preferred cause being once passed without reser
vation, will take its place in subsequent calendars without prefer
ence.

SEC. XXIV. (Adopted January, 1862.) Calendar to continue
one year. Causes to be noticed for January term. —The printed cal
endar for the present January term, and for each succeeding Jan
uary term, shall stand as the calendar for the entire year. Causes
noticed and placed upon the calendar for the January term of any
year, shall be considered as noticed for all the subsequent terms.
Additional causes may be noticed for the March term, 1862, which
shall be printed with their appropriate numbers, and annexed to
the calendar. After the January term in each year hereafter, no
causes, except such as are by law entitled to a preference, will be
permitted to be placed upon the calendar without the direction of
the court.

SEC. XXV. (Adopted January, 1862.) No defaults allowed. —
Judgment by dafault will not be allowed, nor wUl causes be re
served, or set down for hearing upon a particular day, except in
extraordinary cases. When a cause is called in its order upon the
calendar, it must be either argued, submitted or passed. If either
party appear alone, he may, at his option, be heard orally, or sub
mit the case upon his printed brief. If the appellant only appears,
he shall furnish the court with the usual number of printed copies
of the case, and of his points ; if the respondent, he shall hand to
the court the copies of the case served upon him, and fourteen
printed copies of his points. The party thus appearing and ar
guing or submitting his case, shall hand to the clerk a printed
copy of his brief, to be delivered, whenever called for, to the op
posite party, who may at any time within twenty days after the
hearing, furnish each member of the court, and serve upon the
opposite party, a printed answer to such brief, which may be re
plied to in like manner at any time within fifteen days after such
service.

SEC. XXVI. (Adopted January, 1862.) Call of calendar. —
The call of the calendar at the second, and each subsequent term
in the year, will commence at the point where it terminated at the
previous term, except that causes placed upon the calendar at the
next March term, if entitled by their date or otherwise to priority
over the causes remaining upon the calendar, will be first called.
Causes which are passed, and which, of consequence, go to the
foot of the calendar, will resume their original places upon the
calendar for the ensuing year.

SEC. XXVII. (Adopted January, 1864.) Proof of service of
notice of argument. —In all cases where the notice of argument is
filed with the clerk of this court, there shall be filed with the same
due proof or admission of the service of notice of argument upon
the adverse party. And the clerk is directed not to enter on the
calendar any cause in which proof of the service of said notice is
not filed with him.

SEC. XXVIII. (Adopted January, 1864.) Re-argued causes. —
All causes in which a re-argument is ordered, may, at the election
of either party, be placed on the calendar at the next term after
such re-argument is ordered, or the following term. The same to
take its original place in the calendar.

SEC. 1. Examination of candidates for admission. —Applicants
for admission to practice as attorneys and counselors of this court,
who are entitled to examination, shall be examined in open court ;
the examination shall be had at general term, and shall commence
on the first Wednesday of the second and fourth general terms
which shall be held in the several judicial districts in each year,
and at no other time or place ; and no private examination shall
he permitted.

SEC. 2. Proof of citizenship, &c. Applicants from other States.
To sign roll, &c, on admission. —To entitle an applicant to an ex
amination, he must prove to the court—
1. That he is a citizen of the United States, and that he is
twenty-one years of age, and a resident of the district in which he
applies, which proof may be made by his own affidavit of the fact.
2. The evidence of good moral character shall be the certificate
of a reputable counselor of this court, or of some other reputable
person known to the court ; but such certificate shall not be deemed
conclusive evidence, and the court must be satisfied on the point,
after a furl examination and inquiry.
3. Such applicant must sustain a satisfactory examination upon
the law of real and personal property, contracts, partnership, ne
gotiable paper, principal and agent, principal and surety, insur
ance, executors and administrators, bailments, corporations, per
sonal rights, domestic relations, wills, equity jurisprudence,
pleadings, practice and evidence.
4. Applicants for admission from other States shall conform to
the foregoing rules, unless they produce a certificate from a judge
of the highest court of original jurisdiction in the State from which
they come, to the effect that for three years, immediately preceding,
they have practiced as attorneys or counselors in such court, and
that they are in good standing as such attorneys or counselors.
5. Applicants admitted shall sign a roll, and subscribe and take
the constitutional oath of office.

SEC. 8. Where papers to be filed. Papers on special motion to be
filed. —Papers shall be filed in the county specified in the complaint
as the place of trial, or in the county to which the place of trial
has been changed. And in case the place of trial has changed for
the reason that the proper county is not specified, the papers on
file at the time of the order mating such change shall be trans
ferred to the county specified in such order; and all other papers
in the cause shall be filed in the county so specified.
When the affidavits and papers upon a non-enumerated motion
are required by law to be filed, and the order to be entered in a
county other than that in which the motion is made, the clerk shall
deliver to the party prevailing in the motion, unless the court shall
otherwise direct, a certified copy of the rough minutes, showing
what papers were used or read, together with the affidavits and
papers used or read upon such motion, with a note of the decision
thereon, or the order directed to be entered, properly certified.
And it shall be the duty of the party to whom such papers are de
livered to cause the same to be filed, and the proper order entered
in the proper county within ten days thereafter, or, in default
thereof, he shall lose the benefit of the said order.

SEC. 4. Undertakings and affidavits to be filed. —It shall be the
duty of the plaintiff's attorney forthwith to file with the clerk of
the proper county all undertakings given upon procuring an order
of arrest, an injunction order, or an attachment, with the approval
of the justice or judge taking the same endorsed thereon ; and in
case such undertakings shall not be filed within five days after the
order for arrest or injunction, or the attachment, has been granted,
the defendant shall be at liberty to move the court to* vacate the
proceedings for irregularity, with costs, as if no undertaking had
been given. It shall also be the duty of the attorney to file within
the same time, and under the like penalty, the affidavits upon
which an injunction or attachment has been granted, and also the
affidavit upon which an order for the service of a summons by pub
lication or an order for a substituted service of a summons has
been granted, together with the order for such service.

SEC. 5. Bail, where to justify. —Whenever bail are required to
justify, they shall justify within the county where the defendant
shall have been arrested, or where the bail reside.

SEC. 6. Sureties to justify, and value of security to be proved.
Undertakings to be acknowledged. —Whenever a justice or other offi
cer approves of the security to be given in any case, or reports
upon its sufficiency, it shall be his duty to require personal sureties
to justify, or, if the security offered is by way of mortgage on real
estate, to require proof of the value of such estate. And all bonds
and undertakings, and other securities in writing, shall be duly
proved or acknowledged, in like manner as deeds of real estate,
before the same shall be received or filed.

SEC. '1. Sheriff to file affidavits on arrest. —The sheriff shall file
with the clerk the affidavits on which an arrest is made, within
ten days after the arrest.

SEC. 8. Sheriff compelled to return process. —At any time after
the day when it is the duty of the sheriff, or other officer, to return,
deliver, or file any process, undertaking, order, or other paper, by
the provisions of the Code of Procedure, any party entitled to have
such act done may serve on the officer a notice to return, deliver,
or file such process, undertaking, order, or other paper, as the case
may be, within ten days, or show cause, at a special term to be
designated in said notice, why an attachment should not issue
against him.

SEC. 9. Clerks to keep books. Judgments to be filed, &c, only
during office hours. —The several clerks of this court shall keep in
their respective offices, in addition to the "judgment-book" re
quired to be kept by § 279 of the Code of Procedure, a book, pro
perly indexed, in which shall be entered the titles of all civil ac
tions and special proceedings, with proper entries under each,
denoting the papers filed and the orders made, and the steps taken
therein, with the dates of the several proceedings ; an index of all
undertakings filed in the office, stating, in appropriate columns, the
title of the cause or proceeding in which it is given, with a general
statement of its condition, or a reference to the statute under which
it is given; the date when and before whom acknowledged or
proved, by wjiom approved, and when* filed, with a statement of
any disposition or order made of or concerning it ; and such other
books, properly indexed, as may be necessary to enter the minutes
of the court, docket judgments, enter orders and all other neces
sary matters and proceedings ; and such other books as the courts
of the respective districts, at a general term, may direct.
Judgments shall only be filed and entered, or docketed, in the
offices of the clerks of the courts of this State, within the hours
during which, by law, they are required to keep open their respec
tive offices for the transaction of business.

SEC. 10. Attorneys to endorse name and residence on papers
served. —On process or papers to be served, the attorney, besides
subscribing or endorsing his name, shall add thereto his place of
business ; .and if he shall neglect to do so, papers may be served on
him at his place of residence, through the mail, by directing them
according to the best information which can conveniently be ob
tained concerning his residence.
This rule shall apply to a party who prosecutes or defends in
person, whether he be an attorney or not.
Bulk 11. What to be deemed an appearance. —Service of notice
of an appearance or retainer generally, by an attorney for the de
fendant, shall in all cases be deemed an appearance. And the
plaintiff, on filing such notice, at any time thereafter, with proof
of service thereof, may have the appearance of the defendant en
tered as of the time when such notice was served.

SEC. 12. Change of attorney. —An attorney may be changed by
consent, or upon cause shown, and upon such terms as shall be
just, upon the application of the client, by order of the justice of
the court, and not otherwise.

SEC. 13. Stipulation must be in writing or entei-ed. —No private
agreement or consent between the parties or their attorneys, in re
spect to the proceedings in a cause, shall be binding, unless the
same shall have been reduced to the form of an order, by consent,
and entered, or unless the evidence thereof shall be in writing, sub
scribed by the party against whom the same shall be alleged, or
by his attorney or counsel.

SEC. 14. Application for discovery, how made. —Applications
may be made in the manner provided by law to compel the pro
duction and discovery of books, papers, and documents relating to
the merits of any civil action pending in this court, or of any de
fence in such action, in the following cases :
1. By the plaintiff, to compel the discovery of books, papers, or
documents in the possession or under the control of the defendant,
which may be necessary t» enable the plaintiff to frame his com
plaint, or to answer any pleading of the defendant.
2. The plaintiff may be compelled to make the like discovery
of books, papers, or documents, when the same shall be necessary
to enable the defendant to answer any pleading of the plaintiff.
3. Either party may be compelled to make discovery as pro
vided by § 388 of the Code.

SEC. 15. Moving papers, what to state. — The moving papers
upon the application for such discovery, shall state the facts and
circumstances on which the same is claimed, and shall be verified
by affidavit, stating that the books, papers, and documents whereof
discovery is sought, aro not in the possession nor under the con
trol of the party applying therefor. The party applying shall show
to the satisfaction of the court, or judge, the materiality and ne
cessity of the discovery sought, and the particular information
which he requires.

SEC. 16. Order for discovery. —The order for granting the
discovery shall specify the mode in which the same is to be made,
which may be either by requiring the party to deliver sworn
copies of the matters to be discovered, or by requiring him to
produce and deposit the same with the clerk of the county in
which the trial is to be had, unless otherwise directed in the order.
The order shall also specify the time within which the discovery
is to be made. And when papers are required to be deposited, the
order shall specify the time that the deposit shall continue, and
shall also declare the consequences of an omission to comply with
the same ; and the court, at any special term, upon proof of the
default, may of course grant a rule absolute giving effect to such
order, either by non-suiting the plaintiff, striking out the defend
ant's answer, debarring him from a particular defence, excluding
the paper from being given in evidence, or punishing the party in
default as for a contempt, as the order for the discovery may re
quire.

SEC. 17. Order for discovery to operate as a stay ofproceedings.
—The order directing the discovery of books, papers or docu
ments, shall operate as a stay of all other proceedings in the cause,
until such order shall have been complied with or vacated ; and
the party obtaining such order, after the same shall be complied
with or vacated, shall have the like time to prepare his complaint,
answer, reply or demurrer, to which he was entitled at the
making of the order. But the justice, in granting the order, may
limit its effect, by declaring how far it shall operate as a stay of
proceedings.

SEC. 18. Affidavit of serving summons. —Where the service of
the summons and of the complaint, or notice, if any, accompanying
the same, shall be made by any other person than the sheriff, it
shall be necessary for such person to state, in his affidavit of ser
vice, when and at what particular place he served tiie same, and
that he knew the person served to be the person mentioned and
described in the summons as defendant therein ; and also to state,
in his affidavit, whether he left with the defendant such copy, as
well as delivered it to him.

SEC. 19. Numbering causes of action or grounds of defence. —
In all cases of more than one distinct cause of action, defence,
counterclaim or reply, the same shall not only be separately stated,
but plainly numbered.

SEC. 20. Folios to be marked, and title of cause endorsed. Plead
ings to be legibly written. Objections, when waived. —The attorney, or
other officer of the court, who draws any pleading, deposition,
affidavit, case, bill of exceptions, report, or other paper, or enters
any judgment, exceeding two folios in length, shall distinctly
number and mark each folio in the margin thereof; and all copies
either for the parties or the court, shall be numbered or marked
in the margin so as to conform to the original draft or entry and
to each other, and shall be endorsed with the title of the cause.
And all the pleadings and other proceedings, and copies thereof,
shall be fairly and legibly written ; and if not so written and folioed,
and endorsed, as aforesaid, the clerks shall not file such as
may be offered to them for that purpose ; nor will the court hear
any motion or application founded thereon. The party upon whom
the paper is served shall be deemed to have waived the objection,
unless, within twenty-four hours after the receipt thereof, he re
turns such paper to the party serving the same, with a statement
of the particular objection to its receipt.

SEC. 21. Advice of counsel, how stated. —Whenever it shall be
necessary, in any affidavit, to swear to the advice of counsel, the
party shall, in addition to what has usually been inserted, swear
that he has fully and fairly stated the case to his counsel, and shall
give the name and place of residence of such counsel.
Rule- 22. Time to answer not extended without affidavit ofmeriis.
Subsequent extension. —No order extending the time to answer or
demur to a complaint shall be granted, unless the party applying
for such order shall present to the justice or judge to whom the
application shall be made, an affidavit of merits, or an affidavit of
the attorney or counsel retained to defend the action, that, from
the statement of the case in the action made to him by the defend
ant, he verily believes that the defendant has a good and substan
tial defence, upon the merits, to the cause of action set forth in the
complaint, or to some part thereof.
And if any extension of time to answer or demur has been
granted, by stipulation or order, the fact shall be stated in the
affidavit.

SEC. 23. Subsequent application for order, after a refusal. —If
any application for an order be made to any judge or justice, and
such order be refused, in whole or in part, or be granted condi
tionally, or on terms, no subsequent application, upon the same
state of facts, shall be made to any other judge or justice ; and
if, upon such subsequent application, any order be made, it shall
bo revoked ; and in his affidavit for such order, the party shall
state whether any previous application for such order has been
made.

SEC. 24. Judgment on failure to answer, where to be applied for.
—When the plaintiff in the action is entitled to judgment, upon
the failure of the defendant to answer the complaint, and the relief
demanded requires application to be made to the court, such appli
cation may be made at any special term, in the district embracing
the county in which the action ia triable, or in an adjoining coun
ty ; such application may also be made at a circuit court in the
county in which the action is triable. But when a reference or
writ of inquiry shall be ordered, the same shall be executed in the
county in which the action is triable, unless the court shall other
wise order.

SEC. 25. Judgment after service by publication. —In actions for
the recovery of money only, when the summons has been served
by publication, under section 135 of the Code, no judgment shall
be entered, unless the plaintiff, at the time of making the applica
tion for judgment, shall show by affidavit that an attachment has
been issued in the action, and levied upon property belonging to
the defendant ; which affidavit shall contain a specific description
of such property, and a statement of its value, and shall be at
tached to and filed with the affidavits of publication ; nor unless
the plaintiff shall, at the same time, produce and file with the
clerk an undertaking, with two sureties to be approved by the
court, that the plaintiff will abide the order of the court touching
the restitution of any estate or effects which may be directed by
such judgment to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution of
any money that may be collected under or by virtue of such judg
ment, in case the defendant or his representatives shall apply and
be admitted to defend the action, and shall succeed in such
defence.

SEC. 26. Plaintiff may stipulate to proceed to trial. —Whenever
the plaintiff shall have neglected to bring his cause to trial ac
cording to the practice of the court, and the same shall not have
been noticed by the defendant, the plaintiff may, if he has not
before stipulated, tender a stipulation, and offer to pay the costs
to which the defendant is entitled up to that time.

SEC. 27. Dismissing complaint for not bringing cause to trial. —
—Whenever an issue of fact shall have been joined in any action,
and the plaintiff therein shall fail to bring the same to trial ac
cording to the course and practice of the court, the defendant
may move for the dismissal of the complaint with costs.
If it is made to appear to the court that the neglect of the
plaintiff to bring the action to trial has not been unreasonable,
the court shall permit the plaintiff, on payment of costs, to bring
the said action to trial at the next court where the same is
triable.

SEC. 28. Issues of fact, how tried. —Issues of fact to be tried
by the court, may be tried at the circuit or special term.

SEC. 29. In what eases inquests may he taken. —Inquests may
be taken in actions, out of their order on the calendar, in cases in
which they were heretofore allowed at the opening; of the court,
on any day after the first day of the court, provided the intention
to take an inquest is expressed in the notice of trial, and a suffi
cient affidavit of merits shall not have been filed and served.

SEC. 30. Examination of witnesses, how conducted. Time for
summing up.-—On the trial of issues of fact, one counsel only on
each side shall examine or cross-examine a witness, and one coun
sel only on each'side shall sum up the cause ; and during such ex
amination the examining counsel shall stand ; and the testimony,
if taken down in writing, shall be written by some person other
than the examining counsel ; but the justice who holds the court
may otherwise order, or dispense with this requirement.
No counsel shall occupy more than one hour in summing up,
unless by permission of the court.

SEC. 31. Catting plaintiff. Submitting to nonsuit. —It shall
not be necessary to call the plaintiff -when the jury return to the
bar to deliver their verdict ; and the plaintiff shall have no right
to submit to a nonsuit, after the jury have gone from the bar to
consider of their verdict.

SEC. 32. Submitting to nonsuit or dismissal before referees.
Form of referees' report. Proceedings on references other than of
the issues. —On a hearing before referees, the plaintiff may submit
to a nonsuit or dismissal of his complaint, or may be nonsuited, or
his complaint be dismissed, in like manner as upon a trial, at any
time before the cause has been finally submitted to the referees for
their decision. In which case the referee shall report according
to the fact, and judgment may thereupon be perfected by the de
fendant.
Upon a trial by referees, they shall, in their decision and final
report, state the facts found by them and their conclusions of law
separately ; a copy of which shall be served with notice of the
judgment; and the time within which exceptions may be taken to
the report shall be computed from the time of such service.
In references other than for the trial of the issues in an action,
upon the coming in of the report of the referee, the same shall be
filed, and a note of the day of the filing shall be entered by the
clerk in tho proper book, under the title of the cause, or proceed
ing, and the said report shall become absolute, and stand as in all
things confirmed, unless exceptions thereto are filed and served
within eight days after service of notice of the filing the same. If
exceptions are filed and served within such time, the same may be
brought to a hearing at any special term thereafter, on the notice
of any party interested therein.

SEC. 33. Issues, how settled. Issues on question of adultery.
Motion for new trial. —In eases where the trial of issues of fact is
not provided for in section 253 of the Code, if either party shall de
sire a trial by jury, such party shall, within ten days after issue
joined, give notice of a special motion, to be made upon the plead
ings, that the whole issue, or any specific questions of fact involved
therein, be tried by jury. With the notice of motion shall be
served a copy of the questions of fact proposed to be submitted to
the jury for trial, and in proper form to be incorporated in the
order ; and the court or judge may settle the issues, or may refer
it to a referee to settle the issues. Such issues must be settled in
the form prescribed in section 72 of the Code of Procedure.
In all actions for a divorce, when issue is joined by the plead
ings upon the question of adultery, such issue shall not be tried by
a jury until the issue to be tried shall be settled in like manner as
in other actions where issues arising out of the pleadings are re
quired to be settled.
When any specific questions of fact involved in an action, or
any question of fact not put in issue, is ordered to be tried by a
jury, as a substitute for a feigned issue, and has been tried, or a
reference other than of the whole issue has been ordered under
section 271 of the Code and a trial had, if either party shall desire
to apply for a new trial, on the ground of any error of the judge or
referee, or on the ground that the verdict or report is against evi
dence (except when the judge directs such motion to be made upon
his minutes, at the same term or court at which the issues are tried),
a case or exceptions shall be made, or a case containing exceptions,
as the case may require, which case or exceptions shall be served
and settled in the manner prescribed by the rules of court
for the settlement of cases and exceptions in other cases. Such
motions shall be made in the first instance at special term ; and
if neither party moves for a new trial in such case, they shall be
deemed to have acquiesced in the decision of the judge or referee,
and the verdict of the jury or report of the referee ; and the same
shall not be questioned upon the final hearing of the cause or in
any subsequent proceeding therein.

SEC. 84. Settling case, exceptions, and special verdicts. —When
ever it shall be intended to move for a new trial (except for irreg
ularity, surprise, or upon the minutes of the judge) or to review
by appeal, or otherwise, a trial by a jury, by the court, or by ref
erees, a case, or exceptions, or case containing exceptions, as may
be proper and the party may elect, shall be prepared by the party
intending to make the motion or to review the trial, and a copy
thereof shall be served on the opposite party within ten days after
the trial, if by a jury, or after written notice of the filing of the
decision or report, if the trial be by the court or by referees ; and
the party served may, within ten days thereafter, propose amend
ments thereto, and serve a copy on the party proposing the case
or exceptions, who may then, within four days thereafter, serve
the opposite party with a notice that the case or exceptions, with
the proposed amendments, will be submitted, at a time and place
to be specified in the notice, to the justice or referee before whom
the cause was tried, for settlement.^ The justice or referee shall
thereupon correct and settle the case, as he shall deem to consist
with the truth of the facts. The time for settling the case must
be specified in the notice, and it shall not be less than four nor
more than twenty days after service of such notice. The lines of
the case shall be so numbered that each copy shall correspond.
Cases reserved for argument, and special verdicts, shall be set
tled in the same manner.

SEC. 85. Case, how waived and when deemed settled. —If the par
ty shall omit to make a case within the time above limited, he
shall be deemed to have waived his right thereto ; and when a
case is made, and the parties shall omit, within the several times
above limited, the one party to propose amendments, and the other
to notify an appearance before the justice or referee, they shall
respectively be deemed, the former to have agreed to the case as
proposed, and the latter to have agreed to the amendments as pro
posed.

SEC. 36. Exceptions, what to contain. Amendments, how to be
marked. —Exceptions shall only contain so much of the evidence
as may be necessary to present the questions of law upon which
the same were taken on the trial ; and it shall be the duty of the
justice, upon settlement, to strike out all the evidence and other
matters which shall not have been necessarily inserted.
Whenever amendments are proposed to a case or exceptions,
the party proposing such case or exceptions shall, before submit
ting the same to the judge or justice for settlement, mark upon
the several amendments his proposed allowance or disallowance
thereof.

SEC. 87. Filing case or exceptions. Order declaring case aban
doned. —Where a party makes a case or exceptions, he shall pro
cure the same to be filed within ten days after the same shall be
settled, or it shall be deemed abandoned.
And on filing affidavit that such case or exceptions has not been
filed, and showing the time of the settlement thereof, and that
more than ten days has elapsed from the time of such settlement,
an order of course may be entered declaring the same abandoned,
and the party may proceed as if no case or exceptions had been
made.

SEC. 38. Statement of facts on appeal to court of appeals. —A
party desiring to appeal to the court of appeals, in an action tried
by the court or referees, may have the facts upon which the deci
sion of the general term was based settled for the purposes of such
appeal ; and, for the purpose of such settlement, the party shall,
within twenty days after notice of the judgment, propose and serve
upon the opposite party such a statement of the facts as he deems
proper.
The party upon whom such statement is served may, within
twenty days after such service, prepare such amendments to the
statement as he may deem proper, which amendments shall be in
writing and served on the moving party. The party preparing
the original statement may give eight days' notice that the state
ments and amendments will be presented for settlement to the jus
tice who delivered the opinion in the case ; or, if no opinion was
delivered, to the presiding justice of the court. Such justice shall
settle the facts ; and upon the statement, as settled by him, he
shall indorse an order that the statement be attached to the judg
ment-roll.

SEC. 39, Arguments and motions, how noticed, and defaults
thereon. Orders to show cause, when granted, and how returnable. A
stay of proceedings. Irregularities to be stated. Judgment in divorce
cases. —All questions for argument, and all motions, shall be brought
before the court on a notice ; or, when a notice less than eight
days is prescribed by the judge or court, under § 402 of the Code,
by an order to show cause ; and if the opposite party shall not
appear to oppose, the party making the motion or obtaining the
order shall be entitled to the rule or judgment moved for, on proof
of due service of the notice or order and papers required to be
served by him, unless the court shall otherwise direct.
Such order to show cause shall only be granted when a special
reason for a notice less than eight days appears on the papers pre
sented, and the party shall, in his affidavit, state the present con
dition of the action, and whether at issue, and the time appointed
for holding the next circuit in the county where the action is tri
able. The order shall also (except in the first judicial district) be
returnable only before the judge who grants it, or at a special
term appointed to be held in the district in which such judge re
sides.
No order served after the action shall have been noticed for
trial, if served within ten days of the circuit, shall have the effect
to stay the proceedings in the action, unless made at the circuit
where such action is to be tried, or by the judge who is appointed
or is to hold such circuit.
And when the motion is for irregularity, the notice or order
shall specify the irregularity complained of.
This rule, so far as it permits a judgment by default, or by the
consent of the adverse party, shall not extend to a complaint for a
divorce.

SEC. 40. Enumerated motions. Non-enumerated motions. Con
tested motions, where to be heard. —Enumerated motions are, motions
arising on special verdict ; issues of law ; cases ; exceptions ;
appeals from orders sustaining or overruling demurrers ; appeals
from an inferior court; and appeals by virtue of § 348 of the Code.
Non-enumerated motions include all other questions submitted
to the court, and shall be heard at special term, except when other
wise directed by law.
Contested motions shall not be noticed or brought to a hearing
at any special term held at the same time and place with the cir
cuit, except in actions upon the calendar for trial at such circuit,
and in which the hearing of the motion is necessary to the disposal
of the cause ; and except also that, in counties in which no special
term distinct from a circuit is appointed to be held, motions in ac
tions triable in any such county may be noticed and brought on
at the time of holding the circuit and special term in the county
in which such actions are triable.

SEC. 41. Filing notes of issues. General-term Calendar. Date
of issue. —Notes of issue for the general term shall be filed eight
days before the commencement of the court at which the causes
may be noticed. The clerk shall prepare a calendar for the gen
eral term, and cause the same to be printed for each of the justices
holding the court. Appeals shall be placed on the calendar ac
cording to the date of the service of the notice of appeal, and
other cases as of the time wnen the question to be reviewed arose.

SEC. 42. Enumerated motions, how noticed. Papers to be fur
nished. And by whom. —Enumerated motions shall be noticed
for the first day of term by either party.
The papers to be furnished on such motions shall be, a copy of
the pleadings, when the question arises on the pleadings or any
part thereof or of such parts only as relate to the question raised
by the demurrer ; a copy of the special verdict, return, or other
papers on which the question arises ; and the party whose duty it
is to furnish the papers shall serve a copy on the opposite party,
except upon trial of issues of law, at least eight days before the
time the matter may be noticed for argumment. If the party
whose duty it is to furnish the papers shall neglect to do so, the
opposite party shall be entitled to move, on affidavit and notice of
motion, that the cause be struck from the calendar (whichever
party may have noticed it for argument), and that judgment be
rendered in his favor ; provided, however, that in mortgage and
partition caaes, where the plaintiff's rights are not contested, no
copies of pleadings need be furnished to the court.
The papers shall be furnished by the plaintiff when the ques
tion arises on special verdict, and by the party demurring in cases
of demurrer, and in all other cases by the party making the mo
tion.
Rum 43. Papers to be furnished on appeal, and by whom. To
be printed. Points to be served. Striking cause from calendar. Cases
under s. 372. —When an appeal is noticed for a general term, in
cases embraced in chapter 3 of title II. of the Code, and of § 348
of the Code, the appellant shall furnish the papers for the court,
which consist of a copy of the judgment-roll, together with a case,
stating the time of the commencement of the suit, and of the serv
ice of the respective pleadings, the names of the original parties
in full, the change of parties, if any has taken place pending the
suit, to which shall be added the opinion of the court below, or an
affidavit that no opinion in writing was given, or if given, that a
copy could not be procured. At the commencement of the argu
ment the appellant shall furnish a printed copy of the papers to
each of the judges, together with a printed copy of the points on
which he intends to rely, with a reference to the authorities which
he intends to cite; and he shall also deliver to the attorney
of the adverse party, at least eight days before the first day of the
term, three printed copies of the said papers. And at the com
mencement of the argument, each party shall serve upon his ad
versary a printed copy of his points and authorities on which he
intends to rely. In case the appellant neglects so to furnish to
the adverse party the said number of copies of the papers, the
latter shall be entitled to move, on affidavit and notice of motion,
for the earliest practicable day in term for hearing non-enumerated
motions, that the cause be stricken from the calendar (whichever
party may have noticed it for argument), and that judgment be
rendered in his favor.
When a case is agreed upon by the parties, according to § 372
of the Code, the plaintiff shall furnish the necessary papers for
argument, duly printed, as in cases of appeal.
, Rule 44. Appeal from surrogate' s decision. Petition. Answer
to petition. Order to answer petition. Guardian ad litem, how ap
pointed. Order to deliver copy petition. Appellant to furnish papers.
—On an appeal to this court from the order, sentence, or decree of
a surrogate's court, the party appealing shall file a petition of ap
peal, addressed to this court, with the clerk of the county in
which the order, sentence, or decree appealed from was made,
within fifteen days after the appeal is entered in the court below,
or the appeal shall be considered as waived ; and any party inter
ested in the proceedings in the court below may thereupon apply
to this court, ex parte, to dismiss the appeal with costs. The peti
tion of appeal shall briefly state the general nature of the proceed
ings, and of the sentence, order, or decree appealed from ; and
shall specify the part or parts thereof complained of as erroneous,
except where the whole sentence, order or decree is alleged to be
erroneous, in which case it shall be sufficient to state that the same
and every part thereof is erroneous. And where the appeal is
from a sentence or decree on the settlement of the accounts of an
executor, administrator or guardian, if the appellant wishes to re
view the decision as to the allowance or rejection of any particular
items of the account, such items shall be specified in the petition
of appeal; or the allowance or disallowance of any such items
shall not be considered a sufficient ground for reversing or modi
fying the sentence or decree appealed from. The respondent, in
his answer to the petition of appeal in such cases, may also specify
any items in the account as to which he supposes the sentence or
decree is erroneous as against him and in favor of the appellant.
And upon the hearing of the parties upon such appeal, the sentence
or decree may be modified as to any such items, in the same man
ner as if a cross-appeal had been brought by such respondent.
The appellant may have an order of course that the respondent in
the petition of appeal answer the same within twenty days after
the service of a copy of the petition of appeal and notice of the
order, or that the appellant be heard ex parte. And where the re
spondent is an adult, upon filing an affidavit of such service upon
the attorney of the respondent, if he has appeared either in this
court or in the court below by an attorney of this court, or upon
the surrogate if he has not appeared by such attorney, and that
no answer to the petition of appeal has been received, the appel
lant may have an order of course that the appeal be heard ex parte
as against such respondent. Where the respondent is a minor, if
he does not procure a guardian ad litem upon the appeal, to be ap
pointed within twenty days after the filing of the petition of ap
peal, the appellant may apply to a justice of this court, ex parte,
for the appointment of such guardian. And if the minor has ap
peared by his guardian ad litem in this court, the appellant may
have an order of course that the guardian ad litem of the respond
ent answer the petition of appeal within twenty days after service
of a copy thereof and notice of the order, or that an attachment
issue against such guardian. When a petition of appeal is filed, if
it has not been served on the adverse party, the respondent may
have an order of course that the appellant deliver a copy of the
petition of appeal to the attorney, or to the guardian ad litem of
the respondent, within ten days after the service of notice of such
order, or that the appeal be dismissed ; and if the same is not de
livered within the time limited by such order, the respondent,
upon due notice to the adverse party, may apply at a special term
to dismiss the appeal with costs. Upon the hearing of any such
appeal as is referred to in this rule, it shall be the duty of the ap
pellant to furnish the court with a copy of the petition of appeal,
and of the answer thereto, if an answer has been received, and a
copy of the proceedings below, including a copy of the appeal as
entered.

SEC. 45. Points on motions. Discussion on facts. —In all enu
merated motions, each party shall briefly state upon his printed
points the leading facts which he deems established, with a refer
ence to the folios where the evidence of such facts may be found ;
and the court will not hear an extended discussion on a mere ques
tion of fact.

SEC. 46. Cases, points, &c, how printed. —The cases and points,
and all other papers furnished to this court at a general term in
calendar causes, shall be printed on white writing-paper, with a
margin on the outer edge of the leaf not less than one and a half
inch wide. The printed page, exclusive of any marginal note or
reference, shall be seven inches long and three and a half inches
wide. The folio, numbering from the commencement to the end
of the papers, shall be printed on the outer margin of the page.

SEC. 41. Certiorari, when heard. —Every case on certiorari to
subordinate courts, tribunals, or magistrates, may be brought to a
hearing by either party, upon the usual notice of argument ; and
shall be entitled to preference on the morning of any day during
the first week of term.

SEC. 48. Non-enumerated motions, hearing of. —Non-enumerated
motions, made in term time, at a general term, will be heard on
the first day, and Thursday of the first week, and Friday of the
second week, of the term, immediately after the opening of the
court on that day. Except in the first judicial district, a party
attending pursuant to notice, to oppose a non-enumerated motion,
if the same shall not be made on the day for which it is noticed,
may, at the close of that order of business, take a rule against the
party giving the notice, for costs for attending to oppose.
Motions in criminal cases may be heard on any day in term.

SEC. 49. Non-enumerated motions, how noticed. —Non-enumer
ated motions, except in the first district, shall be noticed for the
first day of the term or sitting of the court, accompanied with
copies of the affidavits and papers on which the same shall be
made ; and the notice shall not be for a later day, unless sufficient
cause be shown (and contained in the affidavits served) for not
giving notice for the first day.

SEC. 50. Motions to amend pleadings. —Motions to strike out
of any pleading matter alleged to be irrelevant or redundant, and
motions to correct a pleading on the ground of its being " so in
definite or uncertain, that the precise nature of the charge or de
fence is not apparent," must be noticed before demurring or an
swering the pleading, and within twenty days from the service
thereof

SEC. 51. Proceedings on return to mandamus, &e. —The return
to a writ of mandamus, or of prohibition, having been filed, the
party making such return may serve a notice upon the relator, re
quiring him to demur or plead thereto within twenty days after
such service ; and if no plea or demurrer to such return be inter
posed within that time, either party may notice the matter for a
hearing at the next or any subsequent special term at which the
same may, according to the practice of the court, be heard as a
non-enumerated motion, and the same shall be heard and disposed
of on the said return.

SEC. 52. Additional allowances. —Applications for an addition
al allowance, under the provisions of the 309th section of the Code
of Procedure, can only be made to the court before which the trial
is had, or the judgment rendered.

SEC. 53. Jvstice's return on appeal, amendment of. —On appeals
from a justice's judgment, where the county court has not jurisdic
tion, by reason of relationship, <fee, a notice of motion for an order
to compel the justice to amend his return may be given in twenty
days after the date of the certificate of the county judge, and not
after that time.

SEC. 54. Number of counsel, &c —At the hearing of causes at
a general or special term, not more than one counsel shall be heard
on each side, and then not more than one hour each, except when
the court shall otherwise order.

SEC. 55. Counsel to endorse proof of notice. —When a rule is
obtained, either at a general or special term, by default, the coun
sel obtaining the same shall indorse his name, as counsel, on the
paper containing the proof of notice ; and the clerk, in entering
the rule, shall specify the name of such counsel.

SEC. 56. Orders on petitions. —Orders granted on petitions, or
relating thereto, shall refer to such petitions by the names and de
scriptions of the petitioners, and the date of the petitions, if the
same be dated, without reciting or setting forth the tenor or sub
stance thereof unnecessarily. Any order or judgment directing
the payment of money, or affecting the title to property, if found
ed on petition, where no complaint is filed, may, at the request of
any party interested, be enrolled and docketed, as other judgments.

SEC. 57. Time for complying with orders. —In all cases where
a motion shall be granted on payment of costs, or on the perform
ance of any condition, or where the order shall require such pay
ment or performance, the party whose duty it shall be to comply
therewith shall have twenty days for that purpose, unless other
wise directed in the order. But where costs to be adjusted are to
be paid, the party shall have fifteen days to comply with the rule,
after the costs shall have been adjusted by the clerk, on notice,
unless otherwise ordered.

SEC. 58. Order to stay, with view to change venue. Revoking
stay. Notice of revocation. —No order to stay proceedings for the
purpose of moving to change the place of trial shall be granted
unless it shall appear, from the papers, that the defendant has used
due diligence in preparing the motion for the earliest practicable
day after issue joined. Such order shall not stay the plaintiff
from taking any step, except subpoenaing witnesses for the trial,
without a special clause to that effect. On presenting to and filing
with the officer granting the order an affidavit showing such facts
as will entitle the plaintiff, according to the settled practice of the
court, to retain the place of trial, the officer shall revoke the order
to stay proceedings ; and the plaintiff shall give immediate notice
of such revocation to the defendant's attorney.

SEC. 59. Affidavits to change venue. —In addition to what has
usually been stated in affidavits concerning venue, either party
may state the nature of the controversy, and show how his wit
nesses are material ; and may also show where the cause of action
or the defence, or both of them, arose ; and those facts will be
taken into consideration by the court, in fixing the place for trial.

SEC. 60. Guardians ad litem. —No person shall be appointed
guardian ad litem, either on the application of the infant or other
wise, unless he be the general guardian of such infant, or is fully
competent to understand and protect the rights of the infant, and
who has no interest adverse to that of the infant, and is not con
nected in business with the attorney or counsel of the adverse
party. And no person shall be appointed such guardian who is
not of sufficient ability to answer to the infant for any damage
which may be sustained by his negligence or misconduct in the
defence or prosecution of the suit.
This rule shall not apply to actions for the recovery of money
only, or of specific real or personal property, as specified in § 253
of the Code.

SEC. 61. Duty of guardian ad litem. —It shall be the duty of
every attorney or officer of this court to act as the guardian of
any infant defendant, in any suit or proceeding against him, when
ever appointed for that purpose by an order of this court. And it
-r^
shall be the duty of such guardian to examine into the circumstan
ces of the case, so far as to enable him to make the proper defence,
when necessary for the protection of the rights of the infant ; and
he shall be entitled to such compensation for his services as the
court may deem reasonable.

SEC. 62. Guardian not to receive property unless security has
been given. —No guardian ad litem for an infant party, unless he
has given security to the infant according to law, shall, as such
guardian, receive any money or property belonging to such infant,
or which may be awarded to him in the suit, except such costs and
expenses as may be allowed by the court to the guardian out of the
fund, or recovered by the infant in the suit. Neither shall the
general guardian of an infant receive any part of the proceeds of
a sale of real property belonging to such infant, sold under a de
cree, judgment or order of the court, until the guardian has given
such further security for the faithful discharge of his trust as the
court may direct.

SEC. 63. General guardian, how appointed. —For the purpose
of having a general guardian appointed, the infant, if of the age
of fourteen years or upwards, or some relative or friend, if the
infant is under fourteen, may present a petition to the court, stat
ing the age and residence of the infant, and the name and resi
dence of the person proposed or nominated as guardian, and the
relationship, if any, which such person bears to the infant, and the
nature, situation and value of the infant's estate.

SEC. 64. Age of infant, how ascertained. —Upon presenting
tho petition, the court shall, by inspection or otherwise, ascertain
the age of the infant, and if of the age of fourteen years or up
wards, shall examine him as to his voluntary nomination of a suit
able and proper person as guardian ; if under fourteen, shall ascer
tain who is entitled to the guardianship, and shall name a compe
tent and proper person as guardian. The court shall also ascertain
tho amount of the personal property, and the gross amount or value
of the rents and profits of the real estate of the infant during his
minority, and shall also ascertain the sufficiency of the security
offered by the guardian.

SEC. 65. Security by general guardian. —The security to be
given by the general guardian of an infant, shall be a bond in a
penalty of double the amount of the personal estate of his ward,
and of the gross amount or value of the rents and profits of the
real estate, during his minority, together with at least two suffi
cient sureties, each of whom shall be worth the amount specified
in the penalty of the bond, over and above all debts ; or, instead
of personal security, the guardian may give security by way of
mortgage on unincumbered real property of the value of the pen
alty of his own bond only. But the court, in its discretion, may
vary the security where, from special circumstances, it may be
found for the interest of the infant ; and may direct the principal
of the estate, or any part thereof, to be invested in the stocks of
the state of New York, or of the United States, or with the New
York Life Insurance and Trust Company, the United States Trust
Company, or on bond and mortgage for the benefit of the infant,
and that the interest or income thereof only be received by the
guardian.

SEC. 66. Application to appoint special guardian. —An infant,
by his general guardian, if he has any, and if there is none, by
his next friencT, may present a petition, stating the age and resi
dence of the infant, the situation and value of his real and personal
estate, the situation, value, and annual income of the real estate
proposed to be sold, and the particular reasons which render a
sale of the premises necessary or proper, and praying that a
guardian may be appointed to sell the same. The petition shall
also state the name and residence of the person proposed as such
guardian, the relationship, if any, which he bears to the infant, and
the security proposed to be given ; and the petition shall be ac
companied by affidavits of disinterested persons, or other proofs,
verifying the material facts and circumstances alleged in the peti
tion. And if the infant is of the age of fourteen, he shall join in
the application.

SEC. 61. Order on petition to appoint guardian. Proceedings
on such order. —If it satisfactorily appears that there is reasonable
ground for application, an order may be entered appointing a
guardian for the purposes of the application, on his executing and
filing with the clerk the requisite security, approved of as to its
form and manner of execution by a justice of this court or a
county judge, signified by his approbation endorsed thereon, and
directing a reference to ascertain the truth of the facts stated in
the petition, and whether a sale of the premises, or any and what
part thereof, would be beneficial to the infant, and the particular
reasons therefor ; and to ascertain the value of the property pro
posed to be sold, and of each separate lot or parcel thereof, and
the terms and conditions upon which it should be sold; and
whether the infant is in absolute need of any and what part of the
proceeds of the sale for his support and maintenance, over and
above the income thereof, and his other property, together with
what he might earn by his own exertions. And if there is any
person entitled to dower in the premises, who is willing to join in
the sale, also to ascertain the value of her life-estate in the prem
ises, on the principle of life annuities. But no proceedings shall
be had upon such reference, until the guardian produces a certifi
cate to the clerk, that the requisite security has been duly proved
or acknowledged, and filed agreeably to the order of the court ;
and which certificate shall contain the name of the officer by whom
it was approved, and shall be annexed to the report.
The said report shall contain, in itself, a statement of the par
ticular reasons which, in the opinion of the referee, render a sale
of the premises necessary or proper, and of all the facts required
to be ascertained and reported, and shall not refer to the petition
or affidavits for such statements.

SEC. 68. Security by special ffuardian. —The security required
on a sale of the real estate of an infant, shall Ik a bond of the
guardian, with two sufficient sureties, in a penalty of double the
value of the premises, including the interest on such value during
the minority of the infant, each of which sureties shall be worth
the penalty of the bond, over and above all debts ; or a similar
bond of the guardian only, secured by a mortgage on unincumbered
real estate, of the value of the penalty of such bond.

SEC. 69. Proceeds to be brought into court. —If the proceeds of
the sale exceed five hundred dollars, and the guardian has not
given security by mortgage upon real estate, he shall bring the
proceeds into court, or invest the same under the direction of the
court, for the use of the infant ; and the guardian shall only be
entitled to receive so much of the interest or income thereof, from
time to time, as may be necessary for the support and maintenance
of the infant, without the order of the court. If the infant's inte
rest in the property does not exceed one thousand dollars, the
whole costs, including disbursements, shall not exceed twenty-five
dollars. And where several infants are interested in the same
premises as tenants in common, the application in behalf of all
shall be joined in the same petition, although they may have sev
eral general guardians ; and there shall be but one reference to
ascertain the propriety of a sale as to all, and but one bill of costs
shall be allowed.

SEC. 70. When moneys may be paid to general guardian. Orders
to pay money. —No moneys arising from the sale of the real estate
of an infant, on a mortgage or partition sale, or under any decree,
judgment, or order of court, shall be paid over to his general
guardian, except so much thereof, or of the interest or income,
from time to time, as may be necessary for his support or mainte
nance ; unless such guardian has previously given sufficient secur
ity on unincumbered real estate, to account to the infant for the
same, in the usual form.
No order shall be made for the payment of any such moneys to
any person claiming the same, except upon petition, accompanied
by a certified copy of the order in pursuance of which the money
was brought into court, together with a statement of the county
treasurer, city chamberlain, or other depository of the money,
showing the present state and amount of the funds, separating the
principal and interest, and showing the amount of each ; and the
court may take such proof of the truth of the matters stated in the
petition as shall be deemed proper, or may refer the same to a suit
able referee to take proof and report thereon.

SEC. 71. Reference to compute amount due on mortgage. When
proof of facts to be also taken. Judgment at special term. Proof of
filing notice of lis pendens. —If in an action to foreclose a mortgage
the defendant fails to answer within the time allowed for that pur
pose, or the right of the plaintiff, as stated in the complaint, is ad
mitted by the answer, the plaintiff may have an order referring it
to the clerk, or to some suitable person as referee, to compute the
amount due to the plaintiff, and to such of the defendants as are
prior encumbrancers of the mortgaged premises, and to examine
and report whether the mortgaged premises can be sold in parcels,
if the whole amount secured by the mortgage has not become due.
If the defendant is an infant, and has put in a general answer by
his guardian, or if any of the defendants are absentees, the order of
reference shall also direct the person to whom it is referred to take
proof of the facts and circumstances stated in the complaint, and to
examine the plaintiff or his agent on oath as to any payments
which have been made, and to compute the amount due on the
mortgage, preparatory to the application for judgment of foreclosure
and sale.
Where no answer is put in by the defendant within the time '
allowed for that purpose, or any answer denying any material facts
of the complaint, the plaiutiff, after the cause is in readiness for
trial as to all the defendants, may apply for judgment, at any spe
cial term, upon due notice of such of the defendants as have ap
peared in the action, and without putting the cause on the calendar.
The plaintiff, in such case, when he moves for judgment, must
show, by affidavit or otherwise, whether any of the defendants who
have not appeared are absentees ; and, if so, he must produce the
report as to the proof of the facts and circumstances stated in the
complaint, and of the examination of the plaintiff or his agent, on
oath, as to any payments which have been made. And in all fore
closure cases, the plaintiff, when he moves for judgment, must show
by affidavit, or by the certificate of the clerk of the county in
which the mortgaged premises are situated, that a notice of the
pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties thereto,
the object of the action, and a description of the property in that
county affected thereby, the date of the mortgage, and the time
and place of recording the same, has been filed at least twenty
<Jays before such application for judgment, and at or after the time
of filing the complaint, as required by § 132 of tlie Code of Pro
cedure.

SEC. 12. Judgment for sale «/ mortgaged premises. Surplus
moneys. Report of sale. —In every judgment for the sale of mort
gaged promises, the description and particular boundaries of the
property to be sold, so far at least as the same can be ascertained
from the mortgage, shall be inserted. And, unless otherwise
specially ordered by the court, the judgment shall direct that the
mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to
raise the amount due to the plaintiff, for principal, interest and
costs, and which may be sold separately without material injury to
the parties interested, be sold by or under the direction of the
sheriff of the county, or a referee, and that the plaintiff or any other
party may become a purchaser on such sale ; that the sheriff or
referee execute a deed to the purchaser ; that, out of the proceeds of
the sale, he pay to the plaintiff, or his attorney, the amount of his
debt, interest and costs, or so much as the purchase money will pay
of the same, and that he take the receipt of the plaintiff, or his
attorney, for the amount so paid, and file the same with his report
of sale ; and that the purchaser at such sale be let into possession
of the premises on production of the deed.
All surplus moneys arising from the sale of mortgaged premises
under any judgment, shall be paid by the sheriff or referee making
the sale, within five days after the same shall be received and be
ascertainable, in the city of New York, to the chamberlain of the
said city, and in other counties to the treasurer thereof, unless
otherwise specially directed, subject to the further order of the
court ; and every judgment in foreclosure shall contain such direc
tions, except where other provisions are specially made by the -
court. No report of sale shall be filed or confirmed, unless accom
panied with a proper voucher for the surplus moneys, and showing
that they have been paid over, deposited or disposed of, in pur
suance of the judgment. The referee to be appointed in foreclosure
cases shall be selected by the court, and the court shall not appoint
as such referee a person nominated by the party to the action or his
counsel.

SEC. IS. Sale of lands in the city of New York. Sale of lands
out of the city. —"Where lands in the city of New York are sold
under a decree, order or judgment of any court, they shall be sold
at public vendue, at the Merchants' Exchange Sales-room, No. Ill
Broadway, between twelve o'clock at noon and three in the after
noon, unless other-wise specially directed. The notice of the sale
of lands lying in any of the cities of this State in which a daily
paper is printed, except where a different notice is required by
law, or by the order of tho court, shall be published in one or more
of the daily papers of that city, for three weeks immediately pre-
vious to the time of sale, at least twice in each week When lands
in any other part of the State are directed to be sold at auction,
notice of the sale shall be given for the same time and in the same
manner as is required by law on sales of real estate by sheriffs on
execution.

SEC. 14. How sheriff is to sell. —Where mortgaged premises
or other real estate directed to be sold consist of several distinct
lots or parcels, which can be sold separately without diminishing
the value thereof on such sale, it shall be the duty of the sheriff, or
other person conducting the sale, to sell the same in separate lots
or parcels, unless otherwise specially directed by the court. But if
the sheriff or other person is satisfied the property will produce a
greater price if sold together than it will in separate lots or par
cels, he may sell it together, unless otherwise directed in the order
of sale.

SEC. 75. Mortgage must be filed or recorded. —Whenever a sheriff
or referee sells mortgaged premises, under a decree or order or
judgment of the court, it shall be the duty of the plaintiff, before a
deed is executed to the purchaser, to file such mortgage in the office
of the clerk, unless such mortgage has been duly proved or acknow
ledged, so as to entitle the same to be recorded ; in which case, if it
has not been already done, it shall be thn duty of the plaintiff to
cause the same to be recorded, at full Icngti, in the county or coun
ties where the lands so sold are situated, b 'fore a deed is executed
to the purchaser on the sale ; the expense o ". which filing or record
ing, and the entry thereof, shall be allowed in the taxation of costs ;
and if filed with the clerk, he shall enter in the minutes the filing of
such mortgage, and the time of filing. But this rule shall not ex
tend to any case where the mortgage appears, by the pleadings or
proof in the suit commenced thereon, to have been lost or destroyed.

SEC. 76. Claims for surplus money. —On filing the report of the
sale, any party to the suit, or any person who had a lien on the
mortgaged premises at the time of the sale, upon filing with the
clerk where the report of sale is filed a notice stating that he is en
titled to such surplus moneys, or some part thereof, and the nature
and extent of his claim, may have an order of reference, to ascer
tain and report the amount due to him, or to any other person,
which is a lien upon such surplus moneys, and to ascertain the pri
orities of the several liens thereon ; to the end that, on the coming
in and confirmation of the report on such reference, such further
order may be made for the distribution of such surplus moneys as
may be just. Every party who appeared in the cause, or who shall
have filed such notice with the clerk, previous to the entry of the
order of reference, shall be entitled to service of a notice of the ap
plication for the reference, and to attend on such reference, and to
the usual notices of subsequent proceedings relative to such surplus.
But if such claimant has not appeared or made his claim by an at
torney of this court, the notice may be served by putting the same
into the postoffice, directed to the claimant, at his place of resi
dence, as stated in the notice of his claim.
Ruts 77- Partition of lands held in common. —Where several'
tracts or parcels of land lying within this State are owned by the
same persons in common, no separate action for the partition of a
part thereof only shall be brought without the consent of all the
parties interested therein ; and if brought without such consent, the
share of fcke plaintiff may be charged with the whole costs of the
proceeding, And when infants are interested, the petition shall
state whether o* not the parties own any other lands in common.

SEC. 78. Reference as to title where no defence interposed. —
Where the rights and interests of the several parties, as stated in
the complaint, are not denied or controverted, if any of the defend
ants are infants or absentees, or unknown, the plaintiff, on an affi
davit of the fact, and notice to such of the parties as have appeared,
may apply at a special term for an order of reference to take proof
of the plaintiff's title and interest in the premises, and of the several
matters set forth in the bill or petition, and to ascertain and report
the rights and interests of the several parties in the premises, and
an abstract of the conveyances by which the same are held.
Role 79. Order for reference. Sale in partition. —Where the
whole premises of which partition is sought are so circumstanced
that a partition thereof cannot be made without great prejudice te
the owners, due regard being had to the power of the court to deeree
compensation to be made for equality of partition, and to the
ability of the respective parties to pay a reasonable compensation
to produce such equality, or where any lot or separate parcel of the
premises, which will exceed in value the share to which either of
the tenants in common may be entitled, is so circumstanced, the
plaintiff, upon stating the fact in the affidavit whieh is to be filed
for the purpose of obtaining an order of reference under the next
preceding rule, may have a further provision inserted in such order
of reference, directing the officer or person to whom it is referred,
to inquire and report whether the whole premises, or any lot. or sep
arate parcel thereof, are so circumstanced that an actual partition
cannot be made ; and that if he arrives at the conclusion that the
sale of the whole premises, or of any lot or separate parcel thereof,
will be necessary, that he specify the same in his report, together
with the reasons which render a sale necessary ; and, in such a case,
that he also ascertain and report whether any creditor, not a party
to the suit, has a specific lien, by mortgage, devise, or otherwise,
upon the undivided share or interest of any of the parties in that
portion of the premises which it is necessary to sell ; and if he finds
that there is no such specific lien in favor of any person not a party
to the suit, that he further inquire and report whether the undi
vided share or interest of any of the parties in the premises is sub
ject to a general lien or incumbrance, by judgment or decree ; and
that he ascertain and report the amount due to any party to the
suit who has either a general or specific lien on the premises to be
sold, or any part thereof, and the amount due to any creditor, not a
party, who has a general lien on any undivided share or interest
therein, by judgment or decree, and who shall appear and establish
his claim on such reference. He shall also, if requested by the par
ties who appear before him on such reference, ascertain and report
the amount due to any creditor not a party to the suit, which is
either a specific or general lien or incumbrance upon all the shares
or interests of the parties in the premises to be sold, and which
would remain as an incumbrance thereon in the hands of the pur
chaser ; to the end that such directions may be given in relation to
the same, in the decree for the sale of the premises, as shall be most
beneficial to all parties interested in the proceeds thereof on such
sale.

SEC. 80. Staying sale in foreclosure or partition. —No order to
stay a sale under a judgment in partition, or for the foreclosure of
a mortgage, shall be granted or made by a judge out of court, except
upon a notice of at least two days to the plaintiff's attorney.

SEC. 81. Moneys brought into court to be paid to the county
treasurer. Where deposited. —All moneys brought into court by
order of this or any other court shall be paid to the county treas
urer of the county in which the action is triable, unless the court
shall otherwise direct. And all bonds, mortgages, and other securi
ties upon real estate heretofore required to be taken in the name of
the clerk of the court of appeals, shall, except as otherwise provided
by law, be taken to the treasurer of the county where such fund be
longs, or such other county treasurer as this court shall direct.
And all moneys received by the county treasurer, under and by
virtue of any law vesting him with the funds or securities belong
ing to any of the suitors, in any court of this State, shall be de
posited by the said county treasurer, in his name of office, in the
New York Life Insurance and Trust Company, the United States
Trust Company, or in such bank or trust company as the court for
the district shall from time to time direct, as a deposit bank, unless
the order or judgment under which such moneys are brought into
court shall direct such moneys to be deposited in some other bank
or company.

SEC. 82. [79.] Accounts of county treasurer. County treasurer
to report annually. —The accounts of the county treasurers, with re
epect to moneys or securities received by them under the foregoing
rule, or by virtue of any order of any court of this State, with the
banks and other companies in which moneys are directed to be de
posited, shall be kept in such manner that, in the cash books of the
banks and other companies, and in the bank books of the said treas
urers, it shall appear in what particular suit or on what account
the several items of money credited or charged were deposited or
paid out. The said county treasurer shall, at the first general term
of this court, for the district in which such treasurer resides, in each
year make a report to said court, containing a statement of his ac
counts, and of the funds and securities under his control, on the first
day of January, which statement shall show the amount in his
hands uninvested, and the times when received, and the suit or
matter in which the same was paid in, constituting the balance in
deposit in banks and other companies ; and also all stocks, bonds
and mortgages and other investments, for the benefit of suitors or
otherwise. The court to which such report shall be made shall
cause the same to be examined by some suitable and proper person,
to be appointed by them. The person so appointed shall forthwith
proceed to examine the account and statement, with the accounts in
banks and in other companies, and with the accounts and securities
in the office of such treasurer. He shall have the power to sum
mon witnesses before him, if necessary, to be examined with respect
to such accounts. He shall report whether such accounts have
been correctly kept and are truly stated, and shall, on or before
the first day of the next ensuing general term in such district, de
liver to the court of such district by which he shall be appointed,
er one of the justices thereof, his report upon the matters so re
ferred.

SEC. 83. Orders for paying moneys out of Court. Accounts
with trust companies. —Orders upon the banks or other companies
for the payment of moneys out of court shall be made payable to
the order of the person entitled thereto, or of his attorney duly au
thorized, and shall specify in what particular suit or on what ac
count the money is to be paid out, and the time when the order
authorizing such payment was made. When moneys are deposited
in the New York Life Insurance and Trust Company, or the United
States Trust Company, te the credit of the county treasurer, the
entry of such deposit, both in the books of the company and in
the accounts of the county treasurer with the company, shall con
tain a short reference to the title of the cause or matter in which
such deposit is directed to be made ; and specifying also the time
from which the interest or accumulation on such deposit is to com
mence, where it does not commence from the date of such deposit.
The secretary of the company shall transmit to the justices holding
the first general term for the first district, in January in each year,
a statement of the accounts of the said county treasurer, and to
the justices holding the first general term in the other districts, a
statement of the accounts of the county treasurer in each district,
showing the amounts standing to his credit on the first day of Janu
ary, including the interest or accumulation on the sums deposited
to the credit of each cause or matter. In every draft upon the Trust
Company by the county treasurer, for moneys deposited with the
said company or for the interest or accumulation on such moneys,
the title of the cause or matter on account of which the draft is
made, and the date of the order authorizing such draft, shall be
stated ; and the draft shall be made payable to the order of the
person or persons entjtled to the money, or of his or their attor
ney, who is named in the order of the court authorizing sudi draft.
And to authorize the payee or indorsee of such draft to receive the
money thereon from the Trust Company, the same shall be accom
panied by a certified copy of the order of the court authorizing such
draft, countersigned by the justice by whom such order was made.
But where periodical payments are directed to be made out of a
fund deposited with such company, the delivery to the secretary of
the compan y of one copy of the order authorizing the several pay
ments shall be sufficient to authorize the payment of subsequent
drafts in pursuance of such order.

SEC. 84. Gross sum, in payment of life-estates, how ascertained.
—Whenever a party, as a tenant for life, or by the courtesy, or in
dower, is entitled to the annual interest or income of any sum paid
into court and invested in permanent securities, such party shall be
charged with the expense of investing such sum, and of receiving
and paying over the interest or income thereof; but if such party
is willing and consents to accept a gross sum in lieu of such annual
interest or income for life, the same shall be estimated according to
the then value of an annuity of six per cent, on the principal sum,
during the probable life of such person, according to the Ports
mouth or Northampton tables.

SEC. 85. Fees on executing commission of lunacy. Committee
may pay taxed costs. —On the execution of a commission of lunacy,
*fec, the commissioners, for every day they are necessarily employed
in hearing the testimony and taking the inquisition, shall be en
titled to the same allowance which is made by law to commissioners
to make partition or admeasure dower. And for drawing the inqui
sition and process and serving notices, when no attorney is em
ployed, they shall have the fees to which an attorney would be en
titled for the same services. The committee of a lunatic, idiot or
drunkard may pay to the petitioner on whose application the com
mission was issued, or to his attorney, the costs and expenses of the
application, and of the subsequent proceedings thereon, including
the appointment of the committee, and without an order of the
court for the payment thereof, when the bill of such costs and ex
penses has been duly taxed and filed with the clerk in whose office
the appointment of such committee is entered, provided the whole
amount of such costs and expenses does not exceed fifty dollars.
But where the costs and expenses exceed fifty dollars, the commit
tee shall not be at liberty to pay the same out of the estate in his
hands without a special order of the court directing such payment.

SEC. 86. Action for divorce or separation. Complaint for di
vorce. —When an action is brought to obtain a divorce or separation,
or to declare a marriage contract void, if the defendant fail to an
swer the complaint, er if the facts charged in the complaint are not
denied»in the answer, the court to which application is made for
judgment shall order a reference to take proof of all the material
facts charged in the complaint.
The court shall in no case order the reference to a referee nom
inated by either party.
And, when the action is for a divorce on the ground of adultery,
unless it be averred in the complaint that the adultery charged was
committed without the consent, connivance, privity or procurement
of the plaintiff ; that five years have not elapsed since the discovery
of the fact that such adultery had been committed ; and that the
plaintiff has not voluntarily cohabited with the defendant since such
discovery ; and also where, at the time of the offence charged, the
defendant was living in adulterous intercourse with the person with
whom the offence is alleged to have been committed; that five
years have not elapsed since the commencement of such adulterous
intercourse was discovered by the plaintiff; and the complaint containing
such averments be verified by the oath of the plaintiff, in
the manner prescribed by the 1 57th section of the Code, —judgment
shall not be rendered for the relief demanded until the plaintiff's
affidavit be produced, stating the above facts.

SEC. 87. Reference in suit to annul marriage. —To obtain an
order of reference, if the complaint seeks to annul a marriage on
the ground that the party was under the age of legal consent, an
affidavit must be produced showing that the parties thereto have
not freely cohabited for any time as husband and wife after the
plaintiff had attained the age of consent. If the complaint seeks
to annul the marriage on the ground that the plaintiff's consent was
obtained by force or fraud, the plaintiff must show by affidavit that
there has been no voluntary cohabitation between the parties as
man and wife ; and, if it seeks to annul a marriage on the ground
that the plaintiff was a lunatic, an affidavit must be produced show
ing that the lunacy still continues, or the plaintiff must show bv
his affidavit that the parties have not cohabited as husband and
wife after the plaintiff was restored to his reason.

SEC. 88. Plaintiff may be examined on reference. —On a refer
ence to take proof of the facts charged in a complaint for separation
or limited divorce, the examination of the plaintiff on oath may he
taken as to any cruel or inhuman treatment, alleged in the com
plaint, which took place when no witnesses were present who are
competent to testify to the facts on such reference.

SEC. 89. Defence in action for divorce, &c—The defendant, in
the answer, may set up the adultery of the plaintiff, or any other
matter which would be a bar to a divorce, separation, or the annuling
of a marriage contract ; and if an issue is taken thereon, it
shall be tried at the same time and in the same manner as other
issues of fact in the cause.

SEC. 90. Questioning legitimacy of children. —On a complaint
filed by a husband for a divorce, if he wishes to question the legiti
macy of any of the children of his wife, the allegation that they
are or that he believes them to be illegitimate shall be distinctly
made in the complaint. If a reference is ordered, proofs shall be
taken upon the question of legitimacy, as well as upon the other
matters stated in the complaint ; and if the issue is tried by a jury,
an issue on the question of legitimacy of the children shall be
awarded and tried at the same time.

SEC. 91. Sentence of nullity or decree for divorce by default.
Pleadings or testimony not to be published. Judgment for divorce. —No
sentence or decree of nullity declaring void a marriage contract, or
decree for a divorce, or for a separation or limited divorce, shall be
made of course by the default of the defendant, or in consequence
of any neglect to appear at the hearing of the cause, or by consent.
And every such cause shall be heard after the trial of the issue, or
upon the coming in of the proofs, at a special term of the court ;
but where no person appears on the part of the defendants, the de
tails of the evidence in adultery causes shall not be read in public,
but shall be submitted in open court. No officer of this court with
whom the proceedings in an adultery cause are filed, or before whom
the testimony is taken, nor any clerk of such officer, either before
or after the termination of the- suit, shall permit a copy of any of
the pleadings or testimony, or ef the substance of the details there
of, to be taken by any other person than a party, or the attorney or
counsel of a party, wno has appeared in the cause, without a special
order of the court.
No judgment in an action for a divorce shall be entertained ex
cept upon the special direction of the court.

SEC. 92. Receiver of debtor's estates When allowed his costs.
May sell doubtful claims at auction. —Every receiver of the property
and effects of the debtor shall, unless restricted by the special order
of the court, have general power and authority to sue for and col
lect all the debts, demands, and rents belonging to such debtor, and
to compromise and settle such as are unsafe and of a doubtful char
acter. He may also sue in the name of a debtor, where it is neces
sary or proper for him to do so ; and he may apply for and obtain
an order of course that the tenants of any real estate belonging to
the debtor, or of which he is entitled to the rents and profits, attorn
to such receiver, and pay their rents to him. He shall also be per
mitted to make leases, from time to time, as may be necessary, for
terms not exceeding one year. And it shall be his duty, without
any unreasonable delay, to convert all the personal estate and effects
into money ; but he shall not sell any real estate of the debtor,
without the special order of the court, until after judgment in the
cause. He is not to be allowed for the costs of any suit brought by
him against an insolvent from whom he is unable to collect his
costs, unless such suit is brought by order of the court, or by the
consent of all persons interested in the funds in his hands. But he
may, by leave of the court, sell such desperate debts, and all other
doubtful claims to personal property, at public auction, giving at
least ten days' public notice of the time and place of such sale.

SEC. 93. Suits pending. Cases not provided for. When rides
take effect. —All actions depending on the first day of July, 1848,
may be conducted according to the rules of the supreme court,
adopted in July, 184'7, so far as the same are applicable.
In cases where no provision is made by statute, or by these
rules, the proceedings shall be according to the customary practice,
as it has heretofore existed in the court of chancery and supreme
court in cases not provided for by statute or the written rules of
the court.
These rules shall take effect on the first day of October, 1858.
1. Whenever any person shall claim any money awarded to un
known owners on the opening, widening, altering, improving or
laying out of any street, avenue, square, or public place, he shall
cause notice of his intention to apply to the court for such moneys
to be published in one of the daily newspapers in this city, at least
once a week for four weeks ; and shall serve notice of such inten
tion on the mayor of the city and the counsel to the corporation of
the city, at least fourteen days before such application. The court
at special term, or the judge at chambers, may hear the application,
and may hear the proofs or refer the matter to a referee to hear
and examine into the matter, and to report the substance of the
proofs, with his opinion. The applicant shall furnish to the court
or referee an abstract of title for at least twenty years prior to the
award, and carried down to the time of the examination ; and also
produce the originals or verified copies of all deeds and wills re
ferred to in the abstract, unless the court or judge, on proof that
the same cannot be furnished, shall authorize other proof to be re
ceived in place of such originals or copies ; and shall also furnish a
certificate of search for mortgages and conveyances against the
persons named in the abstract of title, made by a searcher in the
register's office, or by some other person experienced in making
such searches, and shall furnish his own affidavit, or that of his
agent, or of some other person likely to be acquainted with the truth,
to the effect that, according to his best knowledge, information and
belief, there were no mortgages, conveyances, judgments or liens of
any kind on the property to which the award was made, at the time
of the award, and of the payment of the money to the officer then
holding the money for the unknown owners, except such liens (if
any) as may be specially mentioned in such affidavit. The maps of
awards and assessments, or extracts from them, so far as relates to
the lots in question, shall also be produced to the court, or judge,
or referee. Whenever any money shall be paid to the clerk, or to
the chamberlain or county treasurer, for unknown owners, such offi
cer shall enter in his books of account a memorandum showing the
title of the matter in which payment is made, and the number of
the lot or lots on the map of awards or assessments to which the
award is made.
2. No application will be heard in regard to the disposition of
moneys awarded to unknown owners, until such moneys shall have
been actually paid.
3. Every petition for the payment of such moneys shall be veri
fied under oath ; shall set forth a statement of the title and the
grounds of the claim ; and shall also state the names and residences
of all persons, if any, whom the petitioner knows, or has been in
formed, or believes, to be claimants of such moneys or of any part
thereof, or in any manner or in any degree interested or claiming
to be interested therein.
4. Ten counselors-at-law, to be named by the presiding justice,
with the concurrence of one or more of the other judges, shall be
appointed referees, to one of whom such application shall be re
ferred ; and no application shall be referred except to one of the
persons so to be named.
5. The referee, before proceeding in the reference, shall require
proof of the service of notice of the reference upon all persons
named in the petition as interested, or as claimants, and if, upon
the reference, the referee shall consider that other persons should
be notified, he shall require notices to be served upon them. If any
such persons are infants, guardians must be appointed as in ordin
ary actions ; and if any are absent, non-resident, or cannot be found,
special application must be made to the court for direction in the
premises.
6. The referee shall require a full and complete abstract of the
title to be furnished to him, and which he shall verify for such
length of time as he may deem advisable, together with full, com
plete and original returns of searches for mortgages, conveyances,
and all other lions whatever, affecting the title of the property, and
such affidavits also as he may deem proper. And he shall annex to
and return with his report all such papers, together with the proofs
of service of notices upon adverse claimants, and all testimony
taken before him.
7. Notice of hearing, upon the report of the referee, shall be
served upon all persons who appeared upon the reference, and proof
shall be furnished to the court of the service of such notice.
Position on Calendar of Causes called and Passed in Courts inNew
York City.
When a cause placed upon a calendar of a court of record in the
city of New York shall be regularly called and passed, without a
postponement by the court for good cause shown, it shall thence
forth take its place on the same or any future calendar as if the
date of the issue where the time when it was thus passed. (Laws
of 1849, p. 708, s. 16.)
In the ease mentioned in the last section, it shall be the duty of
the party placing a cause upon the calendar for a subsequent term,
to state the date of the issue, as above prescribed ; and if he omit
to do so, by reason whereof the issue retains its priority on the cal
endar, the court, on the application of the adverse party, or of its
own motion, may strike the cause from the calendar. (Id. s. 17.)

SEC. 1. General and special terms, when held. —The general and
special terms of the court will be held on the first Mondays of
January, February, March, April, May, June, October, November,
and December, in each year, and will continue until the last Satur
day of such months respectively.

SEC. 2. Business at general term ; time of opening. —At the
feneral terms, the court will hear appeals and enumerated motions,
he general term will open at eleven o'clock A. M.

SEC. 3. Trial term. —The special term will consist of two or
more trial terms, held by two or more justices, severally, and a term
held by one justice, which will be designated the special (or equity)
term. For the trial terms the clerk will prepare a calendar for
each branch of the court, containing the issues of fact to be tried
by a jury. Such calendars will be called and regulated by the
justice presiding in each court. The trial terms will open at eleven
o'clock A. M.

SEC. 4. Special term. —For the special term the clerk will pre
pare a calendar, containing, first, the issues of law noticed for argu
ment at such term, and, second, all issues of fact noticed for trial,
which are designated on the notes of issues as causes not requiring
to be tried by a jury by section 253 of the Code of Procedure, or
in which a jury trial is waived. The special term will open at ten
o'clock A. ST., and the first hour will be devoted to the giving of
judgment in undefended causes, and the hearing of litigated nonenumerated
motions. The calendar will be taken up each day at
eleven o'clock A. M.

SEC. 5 (as amended January, 1862). Non-enumerated motions. —
At ten o'clock in the morning, daily, except Sundays, New Year's
day, Good Friday, Thanksgiving and Christmas dajTs, the Fourth
of July, and the days of annual election, special terms shall be held
at chambers to hear non-enumerated motions and applications re
quired to be made in open court ; also for the trial of causes which
the parties and the justice sitting in such term may consent to
have tried before him without a jury, and giving judgment
therein ; and also for giving judgment in actions under chapter
one, title eight, second part of the Code. And as many special
terms for such purposes may be held simultaneously as there may
be justices attending to hold the same.
Where the notice of a motion or application states that it will
be made at chambers, or at a special term at chambers, it shall be
heard there only, unless the parties otherwise agree ; and either
party may there take the other's default therein.

SEC. 6. Attendance of justices at chambers. —The justices desig
nated to hold the general terms will attend at chambers daily,
during their respective terms, from ten to eleven A. M.,to dispose
of ex-parte applications and of non-enumerated motions. All appli
cations for ex-parte orders, and for judgments upon failure to answer,
during the general terms, must be made before eleven o'clock
AM.

SEC. 7 (as amended October, 1858). Appeals from orders on
non-enumerated motions. —Appeals from all orders made on non-
enumerated motions will be heard on each Saturday during the
general terms, at eleven o'clock A. M. Such appeals may be no
ticed for that time. Appeals from orders sustaining or overruling
demurrers will also be then heard, and will be heard in their order
on the general term calendar. Six copies of the appeal papers
must be furnished to the court.

SEC. 8. Motion to set aside verdict as against evidence. —A party
intending to move to set aside a verdict as against the evidence,
must obtain from the justice who tried the cause an order staying
the proceedings for that purpose. Such a motion will not be en
tertained unless the stay of proceedings be obtained and served
within four days after the entry of the judgment by the clerk, or
before the insertion of the costs by the clerk in the entry of the
judgment. The court, by order, may permit the judgment to be
entered and collected, without prejudice to a motion to set aside
the verdict ; and may impose such terms on each party in respect
thereof as to the court may seem meet.

SEC. 9. Case and exceptions on motion to set aside verdict as
against evidence. —The party moving to set aside a verdict as against
evidence must prepare a case, and procure the same to be settled
in the usual manner. If the party making the case intends to ap
peal from the judgment, when entered on the verdict, because of
errors of law alleged to have occurred at the trial, or in the direc
tion for judgment, he must present such alleged errors in the case
made for setting aside the verdict. If the errors complained of
were excepted to in due season, when they occurred, the case may
be turned into exceptions, as of course, in the event of the applica
tion to set aside the verdict being denied.

SEC. 10. Hearing on motion to set aside verdict. —The motion to
set aside the verdict on the case when settled, must be brought on,
on the usual notice, at the special term. No alleged errors of law
presented by such case will be considered at the special terra, un
less by the express directions of the justice before whom the cause
was tried.

SEC. 11. Appeal from order granting or refusing a new trial. —
If either party appeal from an order of a justice granting or refus
ing a new trial on such case, the appeal may be brought on before
the general term, on the usual notice. If the order refuse a new
trial, and there be alleged errors of law contained in the case on
which the motion was made, the appeal from the judgment in re
spect to such errors of law must be brought on and argued at the
same time with the appeal from the order refusing a new trial, at
the special term.

SEC. 12. Costs on appeal. —The costs, on an appeal to the gen
eral term from a judgment, as well as from an order granting or
refusing a motion to set aside a verdict as against evidence, when
allowed by the court, shall be the costs prescribed in subdivision
six of section three hundred and seven of the amended Code, to
gether with the expenses specified in section three hundred and
eleven. But where an appeal from such order is heard at the same
time with an appeal from the judgment in the cause, the court may,
in its discretion, give costs on the former appeal, as if it were a
motion at special term.

SEC. 13. Motion for re-hearing before referees. —The party who
moves for a re-hearing or review of a cause or matter decided by a
referee or referees shall procure and furnish to the court a special
report of the referee or referees, setting forth distinctly the facts
found on the reference, and his or their decision upon the points
of law arising in the cause.

SEC. 14. (Adopted December, 1851.) Notes of issue. —That all
notes of issue hereinafter filed with the clerk, in causes which have
Once been on the calendar for trial or argument, shall specify the
number of the cause on the last preceding calendar on which it
was entered, and the date of such calendar. And every note of
issue shall state whether the cause is to be placed on the calendar
of the general term, the special term, or the trial term. No cause
shall be entered by the clerk on either calendar, unless the note
of issue conforms to this rule.

SEC. 15. (Adopted March 6, 1852.) Notes of issue. —That all
notes of issue hereinafter filed with the clerk, in causes which
have once been on the calendar for trial or argument, shall specify
the number of the cause on the last preceding calendar on which
it was entered, and the date on such calendar. And every note of
issue shall state whether the cause is to be placed on the calendar
of the general term, the special term, or the trial term. No cause
shall be entered by the clerk on either calendar, unless the note of
issue conforms to this rule.

SEC. 16. (Adopted March 19, 1853.) Notes of issue. —That all
notes of issue hereafter, for the general, special, and trial terms of
this court, must be filed with the clerk eight days before the com
mencement of the first day of the succeeding term.

SEC. 11. (Adopted March 10, 1855.) Inquests. —That when a
cause is placed on the day calendar for trial, the plaintiff may, at
the opening of the court each day, take an inquest therein, in any
case the court will consent to try, without the intervention of a
jury, though an affidavit of merits may have been filed, unless the
defendant shall appear and state that a defence is intended to be
made.

SEC. 18. (Adopted April 11, 1851.) Filing papers. Entering
orders. Motion for judgment. —The attorneys of the parties must
file immediately every paper read by them on a motion.
Every order hereafter entered must specify the papers on which
it was granted or opposed ; and the clerk is directed not to enter
any order unless such papers are exhibited to him and filed, or un
less they have been previously filed.
Either party, at the time of giving notice of trial for the spe
cial or trial term, may also give notice that he will move, on the
first day of term, for judgment upon the pleadings, or upon the
pleadings with such admission on his part as he may specify ; and
may thereupon bring on the action to be tried, and move for such
judgment as he may be entitled upon the pleadings, with or with
out such admission.

SEC. 19. (Adopted 19th October, 1861.) False defences. Short
causes. —In actions on contract, where there is reason to believe
that the defence is interposed for the purpose of delay, and that
the trial will not occupy more than one hour, the plaintiff may
apply by motion at chambers or special term, on a notice of four
days, to have the issue placed upon a special calendar for trial
(serving with such notice any affidavits or papers he may wish to
use on the motion, which have not already been served) ; and the
same may be so ordered in the discretion of the justice before
whom the motion shall be made.
If such motion be granted, the cause will be entered on a spe
cial calendar to be made by the clerk, on receiving a note of the
issue specifying the number of the cause on the general trial cal
endar, and the date of the order directing it to be placed on such
special calendar. Such note of issue to be filed with the clerk
four days before the day on which the cause shall be so entered.
The special calendar will be called on the second and last
Friday of each trial term, in part No. 1, for trials, by the justice
there presiding, and the causes may be tried in either part as may
be directed by such justice.
If the trial of the cause shall occupy more than one hour, the
trial may be suspended at the discretion of the court, and the
cause be placed at the foot of the general trial calendar.

SEC. 20. Regulations as to the calendars. —Causes may be gen
erally reserved by a written consent of the attorneys, filed at any
time before the case is on the day calendar. Cases so reserved
may afterwards be placed upon the day calendar, on the applica
tion of either party to the judge at chambers, provided two days'
previous notice of such application be given to the adverse party.
All causes marked "Off for the Term," shall have priority at
the succeeding term, and will be placed in their order at the head
of the calendar therefor.
Causes passed, or run down, will be placed upon the calendar
for the succeeding term, as of the date of issue when thus passed
or run down.
