§1. [1.] The distinction
designated.
heretofore existing between
forms of actions at law is abolished, and hereafter there
shall be but one form of action at law for the enforce
ment of private rights or the redress of private wrongs.

§2. [2.] In such action the party complaining shall
be known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the
defendant.

§3. [3.] Actions at law shall only be commenced gggzlgiclng
within the periods prescribed in this title, after the cause muons
of action shall have accrued; except when, in special
cases, a different limitation is prescribed by statute.
But the objection that the action was not commenced
within the time limited shall only be taken by answer,
except as otherwise provided in section 67.

§ 4. [4.] The periods prescribed in section three (3)
of this act for the commencement of actions shall be as
follows:—
Within ten years, action for the recovery of real prop
erty, or for the recovery of the possession thereof; and
no action shall be maintained for such recovery unless it
appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor, or
grantor was seised or possessed of the premises in ques- :
tion within ten years before the commencement of said
action; provided, that in all cases where a cause of action
has already accrued, and the period prescribed in this
section within which an action may be brought has ex
pired, or will expire within one year from the approval
of this act, an action may be brought on such cause of
action within one year from the date of the approval of
this act.

§ 5. [5.] Within ten years,—
1. An action upon a. judgment or decree of any court
of the United States, or of any state or territory within
the United States;
2. An action upon a. sealed instrument.

§ 6. [6.] Within six years,-—
1. An action upon a contract or liability, express or
implied, excepting those mentioned in section 5;
2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other
than a penalty or forfeiture;
3. An action for waste or trespass upon real property;
4. An action for taking, detaining, or injuring per
sonnl property, including an action for the speciﬁc recov
ery thereof.

§ 7. [7.] Within three years,—
1. An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable,
upon a liability incurred by the doing of an act in his
oiﬁcial capacity, and in virtue of his office; or by the
omission of an official duty; including the non-payment
of money collected upon an execution.
But this section
shall not apply to an action for an escape;
2. An action upon a statute for penalty or forfeiture,
where the action is given to the party aggrieved, or to
such party and the state, except where the statute im
posing it prescribes a different limitation.

§ 8. [8.] Within two years,
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false
imprisonment;
2. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty Yew‘
to the state.

§ 9. [9.] Within one year,— Wm
An action against a sheriff or other ofﬁcer, for the
escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil
process.

§ 10. [10.] An action upon a statute for a penalty given
in the whole or in part to the person who will prosecute
for the same shall be commenced within one year after
the commission of the offense; and if the action be not
commenced within one year by a private party, it may '
M commenced within two years thereafter, in behalf of
the state, by the district attorney of the county where
the offense was committed, or is triable.
§ 11. [11.] An action for any cause not hereinbefore
provided for shall be commenced within ten years after
the cause of action shall have accrued.
§ 12. [12.] In an action brought to recover a balance
due upon a mutual, open, and current account, where
there have been reciprocal demands between the parties,
the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued from
the time of the last item proved in the account on either
side; but whenever a period of more than one year shall
elapse between any of a series of items or demands, they
are not to be deemed such an account.

§13. [13.] The limitations prescribed in this title
shall apply to actions brought in the name of the state,
or any county or other public corporation therein, or
for its beneﬁt, in the same manner as to actions by pri
-vate parties.
§l4. [14.] An action shall be deemed commenced
as to each defendant, when the complaint is ﬁled and
the summons served on him, or on a co-defendant who
is a joint contractor, or otherwise united in interest with
him.
§ 15. [15.] An attempt to commence an action shall
be deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof,
within the meaning of this title, when the complaint is
ﬁled, and the summons delivered, with the -intent that it
shall be actually served, to the sheriff or other oﬂicer of
the county, in which the defendants or one of them usu
ally or last resided; or if a corporation be defendant, to
the sheriff or other officer of the county in which such
corporation was established by law, or where its general
business was transacted, or where it kept an office for
the transaction of business. But such an attempt shall
be followed by the ﬁrst publication of the summons or
the service thereof within sixty days.

§ 16. [16.] If, when the cause of action shall accrue
against any person who shall be out of the state or con
cealed therein, such action may be commenced within
the terms herein respectively limited, after the return of
such person into the state, or the time of his conceal
ment; and if, after such cause of action shall have
accrued, such person shall depart from and reside out
of this state, or conceal himself, the time of his absence
or concealment shall not be deemed or taken as any part
of the time limited for the commencement of such action.

§ 17. [17.] If any person entitled to bring an action
mentioned in this title, or to recover real property, or P-22
for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other
oﬁicer for an escape, be at the time the cause of action
accrued, either,
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or
2. Insane; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution
under sentence of a court for a term less than his natural
life; or
4. A married woman.
The time of such disability shall not be a part of the
time limited for the commencement of the action, but
the period within which the action shall be brought
shall not be extended more than ﬁve years by any such
disability, nor shall it be extended in any case longer
than one year after such disability ceases.‘

§ 18. [18.] If a person entitled to bring an action die
before the expiration of the time limited for the corn
mencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, on
action may be commenced by his personal representa
tives after the expiration of the time, and within one
year from his death.
If a person against whom an
action may be brought die before the expiration of the
time limited for the commencement thereof, and the
cause of action survives, an action may be commenced
against his personal representatives after the expiration
of that time, and within six months after the issuing of
letters testamentary or of administration.
§ 19. [19.] When a person shall be an alien subject
or citizen of a country at war with the United States, the
time of the continuance ‘of the war shall not be a part
of the period limited for the commencement of the
action.
§ 20. [20.] When the commencement of an action is
stayed by injunction or a statutory prohibition, the time
of the continuance of the injunction or prohibition shall
not be a part of the time limited for the commencement
of the action.
§ 21. [21.] If an action shall be commenced within
the time prescribed therefor, and a judgment therein for
the plaintiff be reversed on appeal, the plaintiff, or if he
die, and the cause of action survives, his heirs or per-_
eonal representatives, may commence a new action within
one year after the reversal.
§ 22. [22.] No person shall avail himself of a dis
ability unless it existed when his right of action accrued.
§23. [23.] When two or more disabilities shall co
exist at the time the right of action accrues, the limita
tion shall not attach until they all be removed.
§ 24. [24.] No acknowledgment or promise shall be
suiﬁcient evidence of a new or continuing contract,
whereby to take the case out of the operation of this
title, unless the same is contained in some writing, signed
by the party to be charged thereby; but this section shall
not alter the effect of any payment of principal or interest.
§‘25. [25.] Whenever any payment of principal or
interest has been or shall be made upon an existing con-
tract, whether it be bill of exchange, promissory note, 
bond or other evidence of indebtedness, if such payment 
be made after the same shall have become due, the limi- 
tation shall commence from the time the last payment
was made.

§26. [26.] When the cause of action has arisen in
another state, territory or country, between non-residents
of this state, and by the laws of the state, territory, or
country where the cause of action arose, an action can
not be maintained thereon by reason of the lapse of
time, no action shall be maintained thereon in this state.
§27. [27.] Every action shall be prosecuted in the
name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise
provided in section 29, but this section shall not be
deemed to authorize the assignment of a. thing in action
not arising out of contract.
§ 28. [28.] In the case of an assignment of a thing
in action, the action by the assignee shall be without
prejudice to any set-oﬁ' or other defense existing at the
time of or before notice of the assignment; but this
section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note
or bill of exchange transferred in good faith and upon
good consideration before due.
§ 29. [29.] An executor or administrator, a. trustee 
of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by 
statute, may sue without joining with him the person for
whose beneﬁt the action is prosecuted. A person with
whom, or in whose name a contract is made for the
beneﬁt of another, is a. trustee of an express trust within
the meaning of this section.

§ 30. [30.] When a married woman is a, party, her
husband shall be joined with her, except that,—
1. \Vhen the action affects her separate property, or
when the cause of action is for a. wrong committed
against her person or character, or is for wages due for
her personal services, she may sue or be sued alone;
2. \Vhcn the action is between herself and her hus
band, she may sue or be sued alone; and in no case nced
she prosecute or defend by a guardian or next friend.

§31. A wife may receive the wages of her personal
and maintain an action therefor in her own
name, and hold the same in her own right, and she
may prosecute and defend all actions at law or in equity,
for the erservation and rotection of her ri hts and
property as if unmarried.
§ 32. [31.] When an infant is a party, he shall appear
by guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which
the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, or a county
judge.

§ 33. [32.] The guardian shall be appointed as follows:
1. \Vhen the infant is plaintiﬁ‘, upon the application
of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years; or if
under that age, upon the application of a relation or
friend of the infant.
2. When the infant is defendant, upon an applica
tion of the infant, if he be of the age-of fourteen years,
and apply within ﬁfteen days after the service of the
Summons; if he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect
so to apply, then upon the application of any other party
to the action, or of a. relation or friend of the infant.

§ 34. [33.] A father, or in case of the death or desertion of his family, the mother, may maintain an action
as plaintiff for the injury or death of a child, and a guar
dian for the injury or death of his ward.

§ 35. [34.] A father, or in case of his death or desertion
of his family, the mother, may maintain an action as
plo.intiﬂ', for the seduction of a. daughter, and the guar
dian for the seduction of a. ward, though the daughter or
ward be not living with or in the service of the plaintiif
at the time of the seduction or afterwards, and there be
no loss of service.

§ 36. [35.] An unmarried female over twenty-one years
of age may maintain an action as plaintiff for her own
seduction, and recover therein such damages as may be
assessed in her favor; but the prosecution of an action
to judgment by the father, mother, or guardian, as pre
scribed in section 35 [34] shall be‘a bar to an action by
such unmarried female.

§ 37. [36.] Persons severally liable upon the same pmons 
obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills
of exchange and promissory notes, may all or any of
them be included in the same action, at the option of
the plaintiff.

§ 38.  No action shall abate by the death, mar
riage, or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of
any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or
continue.
In case of the death, marriage, or other dis
ability of a party, the court may, at any time within one
year thereafter, on motion, allow the action to be con
tinued by or against his personal representatives or suc
cessor in interest.

§ 39. [38.] An action for a wrong shall not abate by
the death of any party, after the verdict has been given
therein, but the action shall proceed thereafter in the
same manner as in cases where the cause of action sur
vives.
§ 40. [39.] In any action for the recovery of speciﬁc
personal property, if a. third person demand of the de
fendant the same property, the court in its discretion, on
motion of the defendant, and notice to such person and
the adverse party, may, before answer, make an order
discharging the defendant from liability to either party,
and substitute such person in his place as defendant.
Such order shall not be made but on the condition that
the defendant deliver the property or its value to such
person as the court may direct, nor unless it appears
from the affidavit of the defendant, ﬁled with the clerk
by the day he is otherwise required to answer, that such
person makes such demand without collusion with the
defendant. The aﬂidavit of such third person as to
whether he makes such demand of the defendant may
be read on the hearing of the motion.
§ 41 [40.] The court may determine any controversy
between parties before it, when it can be done without
prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their
rights; but when a complete determination of the con
troversy cannot be had without the presence of other
parties, the court shall cause them to be brought in.
§ 42. [41.] Actions for the following causes shall be
commenced and tried in the county in which the sub
ject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated:—
1. For the recover of real property, or an estate or
interest therein, or for injuries to real property; ,
2. For the recovery of any personal property dis
trained for any cause.
§43. [42.] Actions for the following causes shall be
commenced and tried in the county where the cause, or
some part thereof, arose:—
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed
by statute, except when it is imposed for an offense com
mitted on a lake, river, or other stream of water situated
in two or more counties, the action may be commenced
and tried in any county bordering on such lake, river,
or stream, and opposite to the place where the offense
was committed;
2. Against a public oﬁicer or person specially appointed
to execute his duties for an act done by him in virtue of
his oﬂice; or against a person who, by his command, or
in his aid, shall do anything touching the duties of such
officer.

§ 44. [43.] In all other cases, the action shall be com
menced and tried in the county in which the defendants
or either of them reside, or may be found, at the com
mencement of the action; or if none of the parties re
side in this state, the same may be tried in any county
which the plaintiff may designate in his complaint.

§45. [44.] The court or judge thereof may change
the place of trial, on the motion of either party to the
action, when it appears from the afiidavit of such party,
or if he is not a resident of the county the aﬂidavit of
any one on his behalf, cithcr,— .
1. That the action has not been commenced in the
proper county; or,
2. That the judge is a party to or directly interested
in the event of the action, or connected by consanguinity
or affinity within the third degree with the adverse party,
or those for whom he prosecutes of defends; or,
3. That the judge or the inhabitants of the county are
so prejudiced against the party making the motion that
he cannot expect an impartial trial before said judge, or
in said county, as the case may be; or,
4. That the convenience of witnesses and the parties
would be promoted by such change; and,
5. That the motion is not made for the purpose of
delay.
§ 46. [45.] The motion for a change of the place of
trial cannot be made or allowed in any action, until
after the cause is at issue on a question of fact only. If
the motion be allowed, the change shall be made to the
county where the action ought to have been commenced, if
it be for the cause mentioned in subdivision 1 of § 45 [44],
and in other cases to the most convenient county where
the cause alleged does not exist. Neither party shall be
entitled to more than one change of the place of trial,
except for causes not in existence when the ﬁrst change
was allowed.
§ 47. [46.] When the place of trial has been changed,
the clerk shall forthwith transmit to the clerk of the
proper court a transcript of the proceedings in such
cause, with all the original papers ﬁled therein, having
ﬁrst made out and ﬁled in his own otﬁce authenticated
copies of all such original papers.
§ 48. [47.] The costs of such change of venue shall be
paid by the applicant therefor, and not taxed as a part
of the costs of the case, and the clerk may require pay
ment of such costs before the transcript and papers shall
be transmitted as aforesaid.
§ 49. [48.] If such transcript and papers be not trans-
mitted to the clerk of the proper court within the time 
prescribed in the order allowing the change, and the de-
lay be caused by the act or omission of the party pro
curing the change, the adverse party, on motion to the
court or judge thereof, may have the order vacated, and
thereafter no other change of the place of trial shall be
allowed to such party.
§ 50. [49.] Upon the ﬁling of the transcript and 
papers with the clerk of the court to which the cause is 
transferred, the change of venue shall be deemed com
plete, and thereafter the action shall proceed as though_
it had been commenced in that court.
§51.[50.] Actions at law shall be commenced by 
ﬁling a complaint with the clerk of the court, and the 
- provisions of sections 14 and 15 shall only apply to this
subject for the purpose of determining whether an ac
tion has been commenced within the time limited by
this code. At any time after the action is commenced
the plaintiff may cause a summons to be served on the
defendant.
§ 52. [51.] The summons
shall contain the name of
the court in which the complaint is ﬁled, the names of the
parties to the action, and the title thereof. It shall be
subscribed by the plaintiff or his attorney, and directed
to the defendant, and shall require him to appear and
answer the complaint, as in this section provided, or
judgment for want thereof will be taken against him.
If the defendant be served within the county in which
the action is commenced he shall appear and answer
the complaint within ten days from the date of the
service, but if he be served in any other county in the
state, he shall appear and answer the complaint within
twenty days from the date of the service.
§53. [52.] There shall also be inserted in the sum- Oct.11,1u2.
mons a notice, in substance as follows:-— Sumrnonsto
. contain notice
1. In any action for the recovery of money or dam-
/ages only, that th_e plaintiff will take judgment for a
,1 speciﬁed therein, if the defendant‘ fail to answer the
i\ complaint; I,
\ 2. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to an
swer the complaint, the plaintiff will apply to the court
\
for the relief demanded therein.
§ 54. [53.] The summons
shall be served by the sher
iff of the county where the defendant is found, or by his
deputy, or by a person specially appointed by him, or
by the court or judge thereof, in which the action is
commenced. The summons shall be returned to the
clerk with whom the complaint is ﬁled, by the ﬁrst day
of the next term after its delivery to the oﬁicer or other
person for service, with proof of such service, or that the
defendant cannot be found. When served out of the
county in which the action is commenced, the summons
may be returned by mail. The sheriﬂ‘, or other person
to whom the summons is delivered shall indorse thereon =
the date of such delivery.

§ 55. The summons shall be served by deliver-
ing a copy thereof, together with a copy of the complaint
prepared and certiﬁed by the plaintiff, his agent or attor
noy, or by the county clerk, as follows:—
1. If the action be against a private corporation, to the
president or other head of the corporation, secretary, cash
ier, or managing agent, or in case none of the oﬂicers of
the corporation above named shall reside or have an ofﬁce
in the county when the cause of action arose, then to any
clerk or agent of such corporation who may reside or be
found in the county, or if no such oﬁicer be found, then
by leaving a copy thereof at the residence or usual place
of abode of such clerk or agent;
2. If against any county, incorporated town, school
district, or other public corporation in this state, to the
clerk of such county, incorporated town, school district,
or other public corporation;
3. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years,
to such minor personally, and also to his father, mother,
or guardian, or if there be none within this state, then
to any person having the care or control of such minor,
or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is em
ployed;
4. If against a person judicially declared to be of un
sound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs,
and for whom.a guardian has been appointed, to such
guardian and to the defendant personally;
5. In all other cases to the defendant personally, or if
he be not found, to some person of the family, above the
age of fourteen years, at the dwelling-house or usual
place of abode of the defendant.
§ 56. [55.] When service of the summons cannot be
made as prescribed in the last preceding section, and
the defendant after due diligence cannot be found within
the state, and when that fact appears by aﬁidavit to the
satisfaction of the court or judge thereof, or justice or
the peace in an action in a justice’s court; and it also
appears that a cause of action exists against the defend
ant, or that he is a proper party to an action relating to
real property in this state,—the court or judge thereof,
or a justice of the peace in an action in a justice’s court,
shall grant an order that the service be made by publi
cation of a. summons in either of the following cases:—
1. \Vhen the defendant is a foreign corporation, and
has property within the state, or the cause of action
arose therein;
2. When the defendant, being a. resident of this state,
has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his cred
itors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or with like
intent keeps himself concealed therein, or has departed
from the state and remainedabsent therefrom six con
secutive weeks;
3. When the defendant is not a resident of the state,
but has property therein, and the court has jurisdiction
of the subject of the action.
The summons published shall contain the name of
the court and the title of the cause, a succinct statement
of the relief demanded the date of the order for service
by publication, and the time within which the defendant
is required to answer the complaint.
§ 57. [56.] The order shall direct the publication to
be made in a. newspaper published in the county where the
action is commenced, and
if there be no newspaper
published in the county, then in a. newspaper to be
designated as most likely to give notice to the person to
be served, and for such length of time as may be deemed
reasonable, not less than once a week for six weeks.
‘case of publication, the court or judge shall also direct a.
copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith
deposited in the post-oﬂice, directed to the defendant at
his place of residence, unless it shall appear that such
residence is neither known to the party making the
application, nor can with reasonable diligence be ascer-
tained by him. When publication is ordered, personal 
service of a copy of the summons and complaint out 
the state shall be equivalent to publication and deposit
in the post-otﬁce. In either case, the defendant shall
appear and answer by the ﬁrst day of the term following
the expiration of the time prescribed in the order for
publication, and if _ he does not, judgment may be taken
against him for want thereof. In case of personal service
out of the state, the summons shall specify the time pre
scribed in the order for publication.
§ 58. [57.] The defendant against whom publication
is ordered, or his personal representatives, on application
and sufficient cause shown, at any time before judgment, 
shall be allowed to defend the action; and the defendant 
against whom publication is ordered, or his repre
sentatives, may in like manner, upon good cause shown
and upon such terms as may be proper, be allowed to
defend after judgment, and within one year after the
entry of such judgment on such terms as may be just;
and if the defense be successful, and the judgment or
any part thereof have been collected or otherwise en
forced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled as
the court shall direct. But the title to property sold
upon execution issued on such judgment, to a purchaser
in good faith, shall not be thereby affected.
§ 59. [58.] Whenever it shall appear by the return of
the sheriff, his deputy, or the person appointed to serve
a summons, that the defendant is not found, the plaintiff
may deliver another summons to be served, and so on,
until service be had; or the plaintiff may proceed by
publication as in this title provided, at his election.
§60. [59.] When the action is against two or more
defendants,and the summons is served on one or more,but
not all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows:—
1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted
. upon a contract, he may proceed against the defendants
served, unless the court otherwise direct; and if he re
cover judgment, it may be entered against all the defend
ants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be
enforced against the joint property of all and the sepa
rate property of the defendant served, and if they are
subject to arrest, against the persons of the defendants
served; or,
2. If the action be against the defendants severally
liable, he may proceed against the defendants served, in
the same manner as if they were the only defendants;
3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment
may be taken against any or either of them severally,
when the plaintiff‘ would be entitled to judgment against.
such defendant, or defendants, if the action had been
against them, or any of them alone.
§61. [60.] Proof of the service of the summons, or
of the deposit thereof, in the post-oﬁice, shall be as fol
lows:—
1. If the service or deposit in the post-oﬂice be by the
sheriff or his deputy, or by a constable or marshal, the
certiﬁcate of such oﬂﬁcer; or,
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,
3. In case of publication, the aﬁidavit of the printer
or his foreman, or his principal clerk, showing the same;
or,
4. The written admission of the defendant.
In case of service otherwise than by publication, the
certiﬁcate, afﬁdavit, or admission must state the time
and place of service; and in case of deposit in the post
oﬂice, the time and place thereof.
§ 62. [61.] From the time of the service of the sum
mons, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the court
shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to
have control of all the subsequent proceedings.
A vol
untary appearance of the defendant shall be equivalent
to personal service of the summons upon him.
§63. [62.] All the forms of pleading heretofore ex
isting in actions at law are abolished; and hereafter the
forms of pleading in courts of record, and the rules by
which the suﬂiciency of the pleadings is to be determined,
shall be those prescribed by this code.
§64. [63.] The only pleadings on the part of the
plaintiff shall be,—
1. The complaint;
2. The demurrer; or
3. The reply.
And on the part of the defendant,—
1. The demurrer; or
2. The answer.
§ 65. [64.] The ﬁrst pleading on the part of the plain-
till‘ shall be the complaint.
§ 66. [65,] The complaint shall contain,
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the
court, and the names of the parties to the action, plain
tiff and defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts consti
tuting the cause of action, without unnecessary repeti
tion.
3. A demand of the relief which the plaintiff claims.
If the recovery of money
or damages be demanded,
the amount thereof shall be stated.

§ 67. [66.] The defendant may dernur to the com
plaint within the time required by law to appear and
answer, when it appears upon the face thereof, either,——
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant, or the subject of the action; or,
2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue; or,
3. That there is another action pending between the
same parties for the same cause; or,
4. That there is a defect of parties plaintiff or defend
ant; or,
5. That several causes of action have been improperly
united; or,
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action;
7. That the action has not been commenced within
the time limited by this code.
§ 68. [67.] The demurrer shall distinctly specify the
grounds of objection to the complaint; unless it does so,
it may be disregarded. It may be taken to the whole
complaint, or to any of the alleged causes of action stated
therein.
§ 69. [68.] If the complaint be amended, a‘ copy 
thereof shall be served on the defendant or his attorney,
and the defendant shall answer the same within such 
time as may be prescribed by the court, and if he omit
to do so, the plaintiff may proceed to obtain judgment es
in other cases of failure to answer.
§ 70. [69.] When any of the matters enumerated in
section 67 [66] do not appear upon the face of the com
‘('M “on plaint, the objection may be taken by answer.
cc s, _, . . .
:;1r;*:;1e§uken by § 71. [I().] If no obJect1on be taken, either by demur
rer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have
on. 11,1861 . . . . .
we waived the same, exceptmg only the 0b_]ect1on to the Ju
Oll>]ject‘lion.s.Bd risdiction of the court and the objection that the complaint
W en eem . -
wa1ved- does not state facts suﬁicrent to constitute a cause of ac
tion.
§ 72. [71.] The answer of the defendant shall con
I -
What answer
shall contain.
tain,—
1. A speciﬁc denial of each material allegation of the
complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any
knowledge or information thereof suﬁicient to form a
belief.
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a de
fence or counterclaim, in ordinary and concise language
without repetition.
§ 73. [72.] The counterclaim mentioned in section 72 Oct.11,1862,
[71] must be one existing in favor of a. defendant, and
against a plaintiff, between
whom a. several judgment
might be had in the action, and arising out of one of the
following causes of action:—
1. A cause of. action arising out of the contract, or
transaction set forth in the complaint as the foundation
of the plaintiﬂ"s claim;
2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of
action arising also on contract, and existing at the com
mencement of the action;
The defendant may set forth by answer as many do
fences and counterclaims as he may have. They shall
each be separately stated, and refer to the causes of ac
tion which they are intended to answer in such manner
that they may be intelligibly distinguished.
§ 74. [7 3.] The defendant may demur to one or more
of several causes of actions stated in the complaint, and
answer the residue.
§75. [74.] Sham, frivolous, and irrelevant answers
and defenses may be stricken out on motion, and upon
such terms as the court may in its discretion impose.
§76. [75.] When the answer contains new matter, 07cg.11,1ss2,
constituting a defense or counterclaim, the plaintiff
may reply to such new matter, denying speciﬁcally each
allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge or
information thereof suiﬁcient to form a belief; and he
may allege in ordinary and concise language, without
repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with the
complaint, constituting a defense to such new matter in
the answer.
§77. [76.] The plaintiff may demur to an answer
containing new matter, when it appears upon the face
thereof that such new matter does not constitute a. de
fense or counterclaim; or he may, for like cause, demur
to one or more of such defenses or counterclaims and
reply to the residue.
§ 78. [77.] If the answer contain a statement of new
matter, constituting a defense or counterclaim, and the
plaintiff fail to reply or demur thereto within the time
prescribed by law, the defendant may move the court for
such judgment as he is entitled to on the pleadings, and
if the case require it, he may have a jury called to assess
the damages.
§ 79. [78.] The defendant may demur to any new
matter contained in the reply, when it appears upon the
face thereof that such matter is not a. sufficient reply to
the facts stated in the answer. Sham, frivolous, and ir
relevant replies may be stricken out in like manner and
on the same terms as like answers and defenses.
§80. [79.] Every pleading shall be subscribed by
the party or his attorney, and, except a demurrer, shall
also be veriﬁed by the party, his agent, or attorney, to the
effect that he believes it to be true. The veriﬁcation
must be made by the afﬁdavit of the party, or, if there
be several parties united in interest and pleading together,
by one, at least, of such parties, if such party be within
the county and capable of making the nfﬁdavit; other
wise, the afﬁdavit may be made by the agent or attorney
of the party. The affidavit may also be made by the
agent or attorney if the action or defense be founded on
a written instrument for the payment of money only,
and such instrument be in the possession of the agent
or attorney, or if all the material allegations of the plead
ing be within the personal knowledge of the agent or
attorney. When the aﬂidavit is made by the agent or
attorney, it inust set forth the reason of his making it.
When a corporation is a party, the veriﬁcation may be
made by any officer thereof upon whom service of a.
summons might be made, and when the state or any
officer thereof in its behalf is a. party, the veriﬁcation
may be made by any person to whom all the material
allegations of the pleading are known.
§81. [80.] When, in the judgment of the court, an
answer to an allegation in any pleading might subject
the party answering to a prosecution for felony, the veri
ﬁcation of the answer to such allegation may be omitted.
§ 82. [81.] The answer or deniurrer to the complaint
shall be ﬁled with the clerk by the time required to
motlonsto be answer, and the demurrer, or reply thereto, as the case
may be, must in like manner he ﬁled by the ﬁrst day of
the next term of the court, or within one day after the ﬁl
ing of the answer to the complaint, if the same be ﬁled
in term time.
A demurrer to a reply must be ﬁled in
the manner and within the time required to ﬁle a de
murrer to an answer. Amotion to strike out a pleading
for want of veriﬁcation or subscription, or because several
causes of action or defense therein are not pleaded sep
arately, or for other cause; or a sham, frivolous, or irrel
evant pleading, or redundant matter therein,-—shall be
made within the time for answering such pleading.
§ 83. [82.] A party may set forth in a pleading the
items of an account therein alleged, or ﬁle a copy thereof,
with the pleading veriﬁed by his own oath, or that of
his agent or attorney, if within the persdnal knowledge pa 11.1w.
of such agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it
to be true.
If he do neither, he shall deliver to the ad
verse party, within ﬁve days after a. demand thereof in‘
writing, a copy of the account, veriﬁed as in this [section
provided, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof.
The court or judge thereof may order a further account
when the one ﬁled or delivered is defective.
§ 84. [83.] In the construction of a pleading for the om. 
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall 
be liberally construed, with a view of substantial justice 
between the parties.
§ 85. [84.] If irrelevant or redundant matter be in-
sorted in a pleading, it may be stricken out on motion
of the adverse party; and when the allegations of a 
pleading are so indeﬁnite or uncertain that the precise
nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court
may require the pleading to be made deﬁnite and cer
tain by amendment.
§ 86. [85.] In pleading a judgment or other deter
mination of a court or oﬂicer of special jurisdiction, it
shall not be necessary to state the facts conferring juris
diction, but .such judgment or determination may be
stated to have been duly given or made. If such allega
tion be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound
to establish on the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.
§ 87. [86.] In pleading the performance of condi- 8g}; 11-1862
tions precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts showing such performance, but it may be
stated generally that the party duly performed all the
conditions on his part; and if such allegation be contro
verted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on
the trial the facts showing such performance.
§ 88. [87.] In pleading a private statute, or a right
derived therefrom, it shall be suﬁicient to refer to such
statute by its title and the day of its passage, and the
court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.
§ 89. In pleading an ordinance or enactment of any
incorporated city, town, or village, or a right derived
therefrom, in any action, suit, or proceeding, in any of
the courts of this state, including the courts of any such
incorporated city, town, or village, it shall be sufﬁcient
to refer to such ordinance or enactment by its title and
the date of its approval, and the court shall thereupon
take judicial notice thereof.
§ 90. [88.] In an action for libel or slander, it shall
not be necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic
facts for the purpose of showing the application to the
plaintiff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause
of action arose; but it shall be suﬁicient to state generally
that the same was published or spoken concerning the
plaintiff; and if such allegation be controverted, the
plaintiff shall be bound to establish on trial that it was
so published or spoken.
§ 91. [89.] In the actions mentioned in the last sec
tion, the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the
truth of the matter charged as defamatory and any mit
igating circumstances, to reduce the amount of damages;
and whether he prove the justification or not, he may
give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.
§ 92. [90.] In an action to recover the possession of og.n.1ss2.
property, distrained doing damage, an answer that the
defendant or person by whose command he acted was tlonto recover
lawfully possessed of the real property upon which the lined
distress was made, and that the property distrained was
at the time doing damage thereon, shall be good without
setting forth the title to such real property.
§ 93. [91.] The plaintiff may unite several causes of 0ct.11.1862,
action in the same complaint when they all arise out of
1. Contract, express or implied; or,
2. Injuries, with or without force, to the person; or,
3. Injuries, with or without force, to property; or,
4. Injuries to character; or,
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without
damages, for the withholding thereof; or,
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or with
out damages, for the withholding thereof; or,
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or
by operation of law.
But the causes of action so united must all belong to
one only of these classes, and must affect all the parties
to the action, and not require different places of trial,
and must be separately stated.
§ 94. [92.] Every material allegation of the com
11,1862,
plaint, not speciﬁcally controverted by the answer, and ————
every material allegation of new matter in the answer, Llli§ii:1nl>1l°'
not speciﬁcally controverted by the reply, shall, for the dggégdm
purpose of the action, be taken as true; but the allega
gation of new matter in a reply is to be deemed contro
verted by the adverse party as upon a direct denial or
avoidance, as the case may require.
§ 95. [93.] A material allegation in a pleading is one
essential to the claim or defense, and which could not
be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insu£ﬁ
cient as to such claim or defense.
§96. [9/1.] No variance between the allegation in a
pleading and the proof shall be deemed material, unless
it have actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice
in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits.
Whenever it shall be alleged that a party has been so
misled, that fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of
the court, and in what respect he has been misled; and
thereupon the court may order the pleading to be
amended upon such terms as shall be just.
597. [95.] When the variance is not material, as 0g!-11.1862.
provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact i
0
to be found according to the evidence, or may order an onimmuteria-1
immediate amendment, without costs.
§98. [96.] When, however, the allegation of the oa.n,ms2,
cause of action or defense to which the proof is directed
is unproved, not in some particular or particulars only,
but in its entire scope and meaning, it shall not be
deemed a case of variance within the two last sections,
but a failure of proof.
§99. [97.] Any pleading may be once amended by
the party of course, without costs and without prejudice
to the proceedings already had, at any time before the
period for answering it shall expire; in such case, a
copy of the amended pleading shall be served on the
adverse party before the expiration of said period.
§100. [98.] After the decision upon a demurrer if
it be overruled, and it appears that such demurrer was
interposed in good faith, the court may in its discre- p3‘§.11.1es2,
tion allow. the party to plead over upon such terms as '
may be proper. If the demurrer be sustamed, the court g€(prle;&}§leipg
. Amendment
may in its discretion allow the party to amend the plead
ing dcmurred to, upon such terms as may be proper.
§ 101. [99.] The court may, at any time before trial, o§;.11,1se2,
in furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may
proper, allow any pleading or proceeding to be amended
by adding the name of a party, or other allegation mate:
rial to the cause, and in like manner and for like reasons,
it may, at any time before the cause is submitted, allow
such pleading or proceeding to be amended, by striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in
the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect,
or when the amendment does not substantially change
the cause of action or defense, by conforming the plead
ing or proceeding to the facts proved.
§102. [100.] The court may likewise, in its discre
tion, and upon such terms as may be just, allow an an
swer or reply to be made, or other act to be done after
the time limited by this code, or by an order enlarge such
time; and may also, in its discretion, and upon such
terms as may be just, at any time within one year after
notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order, or
other proceeding taken against him through his mistake
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
§ 103. [101]. \Vhen the plaintiff shall be ignorant of
the name of a defendant, such defendant may be desig- ———='-'
nated in any pleading or proceeding by any name; and defendautby
when his true name shall be discovered, the pleading or name
proceeding may be amended accordingly.
§ 104. [102.] When any pleading or proceeding is
amended before trial, mere clerical errors excepted, it
shall be done by ﬁling a new pleading, to be called the
amended complaint, or otherwise, as the case may be.
Such amended pleading shall be complete in itself, with
out reference to the original or any preceding amended
one.
§ 105. [103.] Any pleading not duly veriﬁed and sub
scribed may, on motion of the adverse party, be stricken
out of the case. When any pleading contains more than
one cause of action or defense, if the same be not pleaded
separately, such pleading may, on motion of the adverse
party, be stricken out of the case. When a motion to
strike out is allowed, the court may, upon such terms as
may be proper, allow the party to ﬁle an amended plead
ing, or, if the motion be disallowed, and it appear to
have been made in good faith, the court may upon like
terms allow the party to plead over.
§ 106. [104.] The court shall, in every stage of an
action, disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or
proceedings which shall not affect the substantial rights
of the adverse party.
§ 107. [105.] The plaintiff and defendant respectively 
may be allowed on motion to make a. supplemental com
plaint, answer, or reply, alleging facts material to the
case, occurring after the former complaint, answer, or
reply.
§ 108. [106.] No person shall be arrested in an action
at law, except as provided in this section. The defend
ant may be arrested in the following cases: -—
1. In an action for the recovery of money or damages
on acause of action arising out of contract, when the
defendant is not a resident of the state, or is about to
remove therefrom, or when the action is for an injury
to person or character, or for injuring or wrongfully tak
ing, detaining, or converting property;
2. In an action for a ﬁne or penalty, or on a promise
to marry, or for money received, or property embezzled,
or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use,
by a public oﬂicer, or by an attorney, or by an officer or
agent of a corporation in the course of his employment
as such, or by any factor, agent, broker, or other person
in a ﬁduciary capacity, or for any misconduct or neglect
in office, or in a professional employment;
3. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property unjustly detained, when the property or any
part thereof has been concealed, removed, or disposed of,
so that it cannot be found or taken by the sheriff, and
with intent that it should not be so found or taken, or
with the intent to deprive the plaintiff of the beneﬁt
thereof;
4. \Vhen the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in
contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for
which the action is brought, or in concealing or dispos
ing of the property, for the taking, detention, or con
version of which the ‘action is brought;
5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his
property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors.
But no female shall be arrested in any action, except
for an injury to person, character, or property.
§ 109. [107.] The mode of proceeding to obtain the
Pgotflenedingzp arrest of the defendant, for any of the causes speciﬁed in
"I . l . - 0
ea section 108 [106] shall be as provided in this sect1on:—
1. At any time after the commencement of an action
at law, and before judgment, the plaintiff in such action
shall be entitled to a writ of arrest for such defendant,
whenever he shall make and ﬁle with the clerk of the
court in which such action is commenced, or is at the
time pending, an affidavit that the plaintiff has a sufﬁ
cient cause of action therein, and that the case is one of
those mentioned in section 108 [106]; and shall also
make and ﬁle with such clerk an undertaking, with one
or more sureties, in a sum not less than one hundred
dollars, and equal to the amount for which the plaintiff
prays judgment. Such undertaking shall be conditioned
that the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be adjudged
to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the arrest, if the some he wrongful or with
out suﬁicient cause, not exceeding the amount speciﬁed
in the undertaking.
2. The aﬂidavit may be either positive or upon infor
mation and belief; but if the latter, it shall state the
nature and sources of the information upon which the
belief is founded. The pla,intiﬂ' shall also ﬁle with his
undertaking the afﬁdavits of the sureties therein, from
which it must appear that such sureties are residents of
the state, and that they are, taken together, worth double
the amount of the sum speciﬁed in the undertaking, over Dec-%1865-W
all debts and liabilities and property exempt from execu- °P€<€:ie;<‘I;1r1g8:.o
tion. No person not qualiﬁed to become bail upon ar
rest is qualiﬁed to become surety in an undertaking for
an arrest.
3. The writ of arrest shall be issued by the clerk, and
shall require the sheriff of any county where the defend-I
ant may be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold him
to bail in the amount speciﬁed in the undertaking, and
that in default thereof, he keep him in custody until
discharged by law, and to return the writ to the clerk
from whom it issued, with his doings indorsed thereon,
when required by the plaintiﬂ' at any time before the‘
defendant may be arrested, or afterwards whenever the
defendant shall have been discharged from the arrest on
bail or otherwise.
4. The plaintiff shall deliver or cause to be delivered
to the sheriff, with the writ, a copy of the aﬂidavit upon
which the writ was issued, subscribed by himself or at
torney. The sheriﬁ‘ upon the delivery of the writ shall
indorse thereon the date of the receipt, and upon the
arrest of the defendant, shall deliver to him a copy of
the writ, and such copy of the aﬂidavit. The sheriif
shall execute the writ by arresting the defendant and
keeping him in custody, until discharged by law.
§ 110. [108.] The defendant, at any time before exe- ca. 11,1862,
cution, shall be discharged from the arrest, either upon ]g)%'—d——t—~
giving hail, or upon depositing the amount mentioned 1c1§\a§:'i>;;<i;1;
in the writ of arrest as provided in this title. 
§ 111. [109.] The defendant may give bail by causing
a written undertaking to be executed in favor of the
plaintiff by two or more sufﬁcient sureties, stating their
places of residence, to the effect that the defendant shall
at all times render himself amenable to the process of
the court, during the pendency of the action, and to
such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein,
or if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third
subdivision of section 108 [106], an undertaking to the
same effect as that provided by section 137 [135].
§ 112. [110.] At any time before a failure to comply
with the undertaking, the bail may surrender the de
fendant in their exoneration, or he may surrender him
self to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested,
in the following manner:—
1. A certiﬁed copy of the undertaking of the bail shall -
be delivered to the sheriff, who shall detain the defend
ant in his custody thereon as upon a writ of arrest, and
shall by a certiﬁcate in writing acknowledge the sur
render.
2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking
and sheriff's certiﬁcate, the judge of the court may upon
a notice to the plaintiﬂ‘ of eight days, with a copy of the
certiﬁcate, order that the bail be exonerated, and on ﬁl
ing the order and the papers used on said application
with the clerk of the court where the action is pending,
they shall be exonerated accordingly. But this section
shall not apply to an arrest for cause mentioned in the
third subdivision of section 108 [106] so far as to dis-'
charge the hail from an undertaking given to the effect
provided by section 137 [135].
§113. [111.] For the purpose of surrendering the p§{.111,1862.
defendant, the bail At any time and place, before they
are ﬁnally charged, may themselves arrest him, or by
a. written authority, indorsed on a certiﬁed copy of the
undertaking, may empower the sheriff or any other per
son of suitable age and discretion to do so.
§ 114. [112.] In case of the failure to comply with
the undertaking, the bail may be proceeded against by Bm,ho,,
action only. 
§ 115. [113.] The bail may be exonerated either by on. n,m2.
the death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in the 113'
penitentiary, or by his legal discharge from the obliga
tion to render himself amenable to the process, or by
his surrender to the sheriff of the county where he
was arrested, in execution thereof, within twenty days
after the commencement of the action against the bail,
or within such further time as may be granted by the
court.
§ 116. [114.] Within ﬁve days from the execution of
the undertaking of the hail, the sheriff shall deliver to
the plaintiff or his attorney, if either of them reside
within the county where the arrest was made, or other
wise to such person within said county as the plaintiff
may direct, a certiﬁed copy of the undertaking, with the
date of the arrest indorscd thereon. In any other case
the sheriff may mail such copy, within the same time,
to the plaintiff or his attorney, within the state, or to
either of them, as the plaintiff may direct. The plain
tiff, within ten days from the delivery of such copy, or
ﬁfteen days from the mailing of the same, if sent by
mail, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does
not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have ac
cepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liabil
ity. If no notice be served within ten days, the original
undertaking shall be ﬁled with the clerk of the court
where the action is pending.
§ 117. [115.] On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff
or defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to
the plaintiff or his attorney notice of the justification
of the same or other bail, specifying the places of resi
dence and occupation of the latter, before a judge of
the circuit court, or county court, or clerk of the court
where the action is pending, at a speciﬁed time and
place; the time to be not less than ﬁve nor more than
ten days thereafter. In case neither the plaintiff nor
his attorney reside within the county where the arrest
is made, the notice may be served upon the person and
in the manner provided for serving the copy of the un
dertaking in section 116 [114]. In case other bail be
given, there shall be a new undertaking, in the form and
to the effect prescribed in section 111 [109].
§ 118. [116.] The qualiﬁcations of bail shall be as p§{,611,1se2,
follow":—- ——'———
1. Each of them shall be a resident and householder 3:“i.>1aiii.mi°m
or freeholder within the state; but no counselor or at
torney at law, sheriﬁ', clerk of any court, or other oﬁicer
of any court, shall be permitted to become bail in any
action.
2. Each of them shall be worth the amount speciﬁed
in the writ of arrest, or the amount to which the same
may be reduced, as provided in this title, over and above
all debts and liabilities, and exclusive of property exempt
from execution; but the judge or clerk on justiﬁcation
may allow more than two sureties to justify severally in
amounts less than that expressed in the writ, if the whole
justiﬁcation be equivalent to that of two suﬂicient bail.

§ 119. [117.] For the purpose of justiﬁcation,each of oa.n,msz,
the bail shall attend before the judge or clerk, at the M17‘
time and place mentioned in the notice, and may be
examined on oath, on the part of the plaintiff, touching
his suﬂiciency, in such manner as the judge or clerk in
his discretion may think proper. The examination shall
be reduced to writing and subscribed by the bail, if re
quired by the plaintiff.
§ 120. [118.] If the judge or clerk shall ﬁnd the bail %>f§L11.18B¢.
sutﬁcient, he shall annex the examination to the under
taking, indorse his allowance thereon, and cause them 1_>alL
to be ﬁled with the clerk of the court in which the action
is pending; and the sheriif shall thereupon be exonerated
from liability.
§ 121. [119.] The defendant may, at the time of his
arrest, instead of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the
amount mentioned in the writ. Thereupon the sheriff
shall give the defendant a certiﬁcate of the deposit made,
and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.
§ 122. [120.] The sheriff shall, within four days
after the deposit, pay the same into court, and take
from the clerk receiving the same two certiﬁcates of
such payment, the one of which he shall deliver to the
plaintiff or his attorney, and the other to the defendant.
For any default in making such payment, the same pro
ceedings may be had on the official bond of the sheriff
to collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of delin
quency. ‘
§123. [121.] If money be deposited, as provided in
the last two sections, bail may be given and justiﬁed
upon notice, as prescribed in section 111 [109], at any
time before judgment, and on the ﬁling of the under
taking and justiﬁcation with the clerk, the money de
posited shall be refunded by such clerk to the defendant.
§ 124. [122.] When money shall have been so de
posited, if it remain on deposit at the time of an order
or judgment for the payment of money to the plaintiff,
the clerk shall, under the direction of the court, apply
the same in satisfaction thereof, and aftersatisfying the
judgment, shall refund the surplus, if any, to the defend
ant. If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the QJ2-211.1862
clerk shall refund to him the whole sum deposited and Deposit’ ho"
remaining unapplied. amused of
§ 125. [123.] If, after being arrested, the defendant 11,1362.
escape, or be rescued, or bail be not given, or justiﬁed, U I
or a deposit be not made iristead thereof, the sheriff sn:i’i:lii.W°t
himself shall be liable as bail; but he may discharge
himself from such liability by the giving and justiﬁca
tion of bail, as provided in sections 117 [115], 118 [116],
119 [117], and 120 [118], at any time before process
against the person of the defendant, to enforce an order
or judgment in the action.
§ 126. [124.] If a judgment be recovered against the Oct 11,1862,
sheriff upon his liability as bail, and an execution L
thereon be returned unsatisﬁed, in whole or in part, the §§$%'ﬁ%?me
same proceedings may be had on his oﬁicial bond for “M
the recovery of the whole or any deﬁciency, as in other
cases of delinquency.
§ 127. [125.] The bail taken upon the arrest shall, Oct 11,1862,
unless they justify, or other bail be given or justiﬁed, be M75‘
liable to the sheriﬁ' by action for any damages which he 1‘,"{§,“,*,.‘,‘,',’1‘,‘§,.11§-Z“
may sustain by reason of such omission.
§ 128. [126.] The fees which shall be allowed to the 0cL11,1as2,
sheriff for the food and maintenance of any defendant 9126'
arrested under the provisions of this act shall be as pro- lI':)1Ia1I:l;.1l?1:g€ble
vided by law, and the plaintiff shall be liable in the ﬁrst ggl1e(i:d(i:.frit.
instance for such fees, and if required by the sheriff,
shall pay the same weekly, in advance; and such fees so
paid shall be added to the disbursements taxed or accru
ing in the case, and be collected as other disbursements.
§ 129. [127.] If'the plaintiff shall neglect to pay such
gm fees for three days after a demand of payment, the sheriff
§’]f,kn“‘cf,‘_“’°' may discharge the defendant out of custody.
%):‘c.20.1865, § 130. [128.] A defendant arrested may, at any time
' before judgment, apply on motion to the court or the
Motion to . . . . . .
vacate write! Judge thereof, in which the action is pending, upon no
IITGIL . . ~ -
two to the plamt1ﬂ' to vacate the writ of arrest, except
where the cause of the arrest and the cause of action are
the same.
§ 131. [129.] If a motion be made upon aﬁidavits or
Pmmdhm other proofs on the part of the defendant, but not other
g:c1;1t%‘1‘;’;1n°g, wise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by aﬂidavits or
‘"°-°"~ other proofs, in addition to those upon which the writ
was issued. If upon the hearing of such motion, it shall
satisfactorily appear that there was not sufficient cause
to allow the writ, the same shall be vacated.
§ 132. [130.] In an action to recover possession ofper
sonal property, the plaintiff, at any time after the action is
commenced and before judgment, may claim the imme
eryof ersonal . . . . . .
prope y. diate delivery of such property, as provided in this title.
§ 133. [131.] When a delivery is claimed, an aﬂida-
vit shall be made by the plaintiff, or by some one in his
behalf, showing:—
1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property
claimed (particularly describing it), or is lawfully en
titled to the possession thereof by virtue of a special
property therein, the facts in respect to which shall be
set forth;
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant;
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, accord
ing to his best knowledge, information, and belief;
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assess
ment, or ﬁne, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an
execution or attachment against the property of the
plaintiff, or if so seized, that it is by statute exempt
from such seizure; and,
5. The actual value of the property.
§134. [132.] The plaintiff may thereupon, by an
indorsement in writing upon the aﬂidavit, require the
sheriff of the county where the property claimed may
be, to take the same from the defendant and deliver it
to the plaintiff.
§ 135. [133.] Upon the receipt of the aﬂidavit and
indorsement thereon, with a written undertaking exe_
cuted by two or more sufﬁcient sureties approved by
the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in double
the value of the property as stated in the affidavit for the
prosecution of the action, for the return of the prop
erty to the defendant if return thereof be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may for
any cause be recovered against the plaintiff, the sheriff
shall forthwith take the property described in the aili
davit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his
agent, and retain it in his custody. He shall also without
delay serve on the defendant a copy of the aiﬁdavit, in
dorsement thereon, and undertaking, by ‘delivering the
same to him personally if he can be found, or to his
agent from whose possession the property is taken; or if
neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual place
of abode of either with some person of suitable age and
discretion; or if neither have any known place of abode,
by putting them in the post-ofﬁce, directed to the de
fendant at the post-oiﬁce nearest to him.
§ 136. [134.] The defendant may, within three days Oct 11' 1862,
after the service-of a copy of the aﬂidavit and undertak
ing, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the suf
ﬁciency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he shall be
deemed to have waived all objection to them. \Vheu
the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice
in like manner as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff
shall be responsible for the sufﬁciency of the sureties
until the objection to them is either waived, as above
provided, or until they shall justify, or new sureties shall
be substituted and justify. If the defendant except to
the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided
in the next section.
§ 137. [135.] At any time before the delivery of the
property to the plaintiﬁ', the defendant may, if he do
not except to the sureties of the plaintiff, require the
return thereof upon giving to the sheriff a written un
dertaking, executed by two or more suﬂicient sureties,
to be approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are
bound in double the value of the property, as stated in
the afﬁdavit of the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to
the plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the
payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be
recovered against the defendant. If a return of the
property be not so required within three days after the
taking and service of a copy of the afﬁdavit and under
taking of the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plain
tiff, except as provided in section 141 [139].
§ 138. [136.] The defendant's sureties, upon a notice
to the plaintiff or his attorney of not less than two, nor
more than six days, shall justify before a judge of the
circuit or county court, or the clerk of the court in which
the action is pending, in the same manner as upon bail
on arrest; upon such justiﬁcation, the sheriff shall deliver
the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be re
sponsible for the dcfcndant’s sureties until they justify,
or until justiﬁcation is completed or expressly waived,
and may retain the property until that time; but if they or
others in their place fail to justify at the time and place
appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintiff.
§ 139. [137.] The qualiﬁcation of sureties and their pg-711.1862.
justiﬁcation shall be as prescribed by sections 118 [116] '
H _ _ Qualiﬁcations
and 119 [111], in respect to bail upon an order of arrest. ‘
§ 140. [138.] If the property or any part thereof be 
concealed in a building or inclosure, the sheriﬂ‘ shall L
publicly demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he 
shall cause the building or inclosure to be broken open, pmpmy'
and take the property into his possession; and, if neces
sary, he may call to his aid the power of his county.
§ 141. [139.] When the sheriff shall have taken 8%-911.1862,
property, as in this title provided, he shall keep it in a '-—'—_
secure place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto E
upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his neces- Pladnu sary
expenses for keeping the same.
§ 142. [140.] If the property taken be claimed by 0ct.u,1s62,
any other person than the defendant or his agent, and Mu
such person make aﬂidavit of his title thereto, or his 
right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of pmm
such title or right, and serve the same upon the sheriff
before the delivery of the property to the plaintiff, the
sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property, or de
liver it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on demand
of him or his agent, shall indemnify the sheriff against
such claim by an undertaking, executed by two suﬂicient
sureties, accompanied by their aﬁidavits that they are
each worth double the value of the property as speciﬁed
in the affidavit of the plaintiff, over and above their
debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from
execution, and freeholders or householders of the county.
And no claim to such property by any other person than
the defendant or his agent shall be valid against the
sheriff unless made as aforesaid; and notwithstanding
such claim, when so made, he may retain the property a
reasonable time to demand such indemnity.
§ 143. [141.] The sheriff shall ﬁle the aﬂidavit, with
his proceedings thereon, including an inventory of the
property taken, with the clerk of the court in which the
action is pending, within twenty days after taking the
property mentioned therein; or if the clerk reside in
another county, shall mail or forward the same within
that time.
§ 144. [142.] The plaintiff, at the time of issuing the reu2s,1is§5'tL_
summons, or any time afterwards, may have the property p-115
of the defendant attached, as security for the satisfaction When plaintﬂ!
of any judgment that may be recovered, unless the de- de end-M's
fondant give security to pay such judgment, as in this mwhe
chapter provided, in the following cases:-—
1. In an action upon a contract, expressed or implied,
for the direct payment of money, and which is not so
cured by mortgage, lien, or pledge upon real or personal
property, or if so secured, when such security has been
rendered nugatory by the act of the defendant.
2. ln an action upon a contract, expressed or implied,
against a defendant not residing in this state.
§ 145. [143.] A writ of attachment shall be issued by
the clerk of the court in which the action is pending,
whenever the plaintiff or any one in his behalf shall
make and ﬁle an aﬁidavit showing,—
1. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff
(specifying the amount of such indebtedness over and
above all legal set-offs or counterclaims) upon a contract,
expressed or implied, for the direct payment of money,
and that the payment of the same has not been secured
by any mortgage, lien, or pledge upon real or personal
property; and,
2. That the sum for which the attachment is asked is
an actual, bona ﬁde, existing debt, due and owing from
the defendant to the plaintiff, and that the attachment is
not sought nor the action prosecuted to hinder, delay,
or defraud any creditor of the defendant.
§ 146. [144.] Upon ﬁling the aﬂidavit with the clerk,
the plaintiff shall be entitled to have the writ issue as
soon thereafter as he shall ﬁle with the clerk his under
taking, with -one or more sureties, in a sum not less than
one hundred dollars, and equal to the amount for which
the plaintiff demands judgment, and to the effect that
the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be adjudged to
the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the attachment, if the same be wrongful or
without sufficient cause, not exceeding the sum speciﬁed
in the undertaking. With the undertaking the plaintiff
shall also ﬁle the affidavits of the sureties, from which
afﬁdavits it must appear that such sureties are qualiﬁed,
and that taken together they are worth double the amount
of the sum speciﬁed in the undertaking, over all debts
and liabilities and property exempt from execution. No
person not qualiﬁed to become bail upon an arrest is
qualiﬁed to become surety in an undertaking for an at
tachment.
§ 147. [145.] The writ shall be directed to the sheriff ';3.&11.1m
of any county in which property of such defendant may
be, and shall require him to attach and safely keep all
the property of such defendant within his county not
exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be
sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff ’s demand, the amount
of which shall be stated in conformity with the com
plaint, together with costs and expenses. Several writs
may be issued at the same time to the sheriffs of differ
ent counties.
§ 148. [146.] The rights or shares which such de
fendant may have in the stock of any association or cor
poration, together with the interest and proﬁts thereon,
and all other property in this state of such defendant,
not exempt from execution, shall be liable to be attached.
The sheriff shall note upon the writ the date of its deliv
ery to him, and shall make a full inventory of the prop
erty attached, and return the same with the writ.
§ 149. [147.] The sheriff to whom the writ is directed
and delivered shall execute the same without delay, as
follows : —
1. Real property shall be attached, by leaving with
the occupant thereof, or if there be no occupant, in a
conspicuous place thereon, a. copy of the writ certiﬁed
by the sheriff;
2. Personal property capable of manual delivery to
the sheriﬁ', and not in the possession of a third person,
Bhall be attached by taking it into his custody;
3. Other personal property shall be attached, by leav
ing e. certiﬁed copy of the writ, and a. notice specifying
the property attached, with the person having the pos
session of the same, or if it be a debt, then with the
debtor, or if it be rights or shares in the stock of an
association or corporation, or interest or proﬁts thereon,
then with such person or oﬁicer of such association or
corporation as this code authorizes a summons to be
served upon.
§ 150. [148.] From the date of the attachment until
it be discharged or the writ executed, the plaintiff as
against third persons shall be deemed a. purchaser in
good faith and for a valuable consideration of the prop
erty, real or personal, attached, subject to the conditions
prescribed in the next section as to real property. Any
person, association, or corporation mentioned in subdi
vision 3 of section 149 [147], from the service of a. copy
of the writ and notice as therein provided, shall, unless
such property, stock, or debts be delivered, transferred, €>]%_i1.186z or
paid to the sheriff, be liable to the plaintiff for the W
amount thereof until the attachment be discharged or §f§§‘,{”;f,‘,,:l‘°
any judgment recoverd by him be satisﬁed.
§ 151. [149.] If real property be attached, the sheriff g>'1:;.9;11.1862.
shall make a certiﬁcate containing the title of the cause, .
. . 0 ma te r_
the names of the parties, a description of such real prop- siiemrcgn °
erty, and a statement that the same has been attached at géglcllgggglagf
the suit of the plaintiff, and the date thereof. Within
ten days from the date of the attachment, the sheriff
shall deliver such certiﬁcate to the county clerk of the
county in which such real property is situated, who shall
ﬁle the same in his office, and record it in a book to be
kept for that purpose. When such certiﬁcate is so ﬁled
for record, the lien in favor of the plaintiff shall attach
to the real property described in the certiﬁcate from the
date of the attachment, but if ﬁled afterwards, it shall
only attach, as against third persons, from the date of
such subsequent ﬁling. Whenever such lien shall be
discharged, it shall be the duty of the county clerk, when
requested, to record the transcript of any order, entry of
satisfaction of judgment, or other proceeding of record, '
whereby it appears that such lien has been discharged,
in the book mentioned in this section. The clerk shall
also enter on the margin of the page on which the cer
tiﬁcate is recorded a minute of the discharge, and the
page and book where recorded.
§ 152. [150.] Whenever the sheriﬁ', with a writ of o,,,n,186;.;
attachment against the defendant, shall apply to any $150‘
person or oﬁicer mentioned in subdivision 3 of section 2,*;;3;,‘,1':,°,;§>,,,_
149 [147], for the purpose of attaching any property we‘ J
mentioned therein, such person or ofﬁcer shall furnish
him with a certiﬁcate, designating the amount and de
scription of any property in his possession belonging to
the defendant, or any debt owing to the defendant, or
the number of rights or shares of the defendant in the
stock of the association or corporation, with any interest
or proﬁts or encumbrance thereon. If such person or
oﬂicer refuse to do so, or if the certiﬁcate, when given,
be unsatisfactory to the plaintiff, he may be required by
the court, or judge thereof, where the action is pending,
to appear before him and be examined on oath concern
ing the same, and disobedience to such order may be
punished as contempt.
§153. [151.] If any of the property attached be
perishable, the sheriff shall sell the same in the manner
in which property is sold on execution. The proceeds
thereof and other property attached shall be retained by
him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in
the action, unless sooner subjected to execution upon
another judgment. Personal property mentioned in
subdivision 3 of section 149 [147] may be delivered,
transferred, or paid to the sheriff, without suit; and his
receipt therefor shall be a suﬂicient discharge accordingly.
§154. [152.] The sheriff may deliver any of the
property attached to the defendant, or to any other per
son claiming it, upon his giving a written undertaking
therefor, executed by two or more suﬂicient sureties,
engaging to redeliver it or pay the value thereof to the
sheriff, to whom execution upon a judgment obtained
by the plaintiff in that action may be issued.
§ 155. [153.] If an action be brought upon such under- 0.-¢,11,1a;¢,>,
taking against the principal or his sureties, it shall be a
defense that the property for which the undertaking was
given did not, at the execution of the writ of attachment,
belong to the defendant against whom it was issued.
§ 156. [154.] If any personal property attached be
claimed by a third person as his property, the sheriff
may summon a jury to try the validity of such claim,
and the same proceedings shall be had thereon with the
like effect as in case of seizure upon execution.
§ 157. [155.] If judgment be recovered by the plain
tiff, and it shall appear that the property has been,_at
tached in the action, and has not been sold as perishable
property or discharged from the attachment as provided
bylaw, the court shall order and adjudge the property to
be sold to satisfy the plaintiﬁ"s demands, and if execu
tion issue thereon, the sheriff shall apply the property
attached by him, or the proceeds thereof, upon the exe
cution, and if there be any such property or proceeds
remaining after satisfying such execution, he shall, upon
demand, deliver the same to the defendant.

§ 158. [156.] If judgment be not recovered by the
plaintiff, all the property attached, or the proceeds
thereof, or the undertaking therefor, shall be returned
to the defendant upon his serving upon the sheriff a
certiﬁed copy of the order discharging the attachment.
§ 159. [157.] Whenever the defendant shall have ap
peared in the action he may apply upon notice to the
plaintiff to the court or judge where the action is pend
ing, or to the clerk of such court, for an order to dis
charge the attachment upon the execution of the under
taking mentioned in the next section; and if the
application be allowed, all the proceeds of sales, and
property remaining in his hands, shall be released from
the attachment and delivered to the defendant upon his
serving a certiﬁed copy of the order on the sheriff.
§160. [l58.] Upon such application, the defendant 06.11.1862,
shall deliver to the court or judge to whom the applica- M58“
tion is made an undertaking executed by one or more ?.%‘3§1'3‘§‘““
sureties, resident householders or freeholders of this
state, to the eﬂ'ect that the sureties will pay to the plain
tiff the amount of the judgment that may be recovered
against the defendant in the action. If the plaintiff de
mand it, the sureties shall be required to justify in the
same manner as bail upon an arrest.
§ 161. [159.] The defendant may, at any time before
judgment, except where the cause of attachment and the
cause of action are the same, apply to the court or judge
thereof, where the action is pending, to discharge the at
tachment, in the manner and with the effect as provided
in sections 130 [128] and 131 [129] for the discharge of
a defendant from arrest.
§ 162. [160.] When the writ of attachment shall be g§§bI11.1862.
fully executed or discharged, the sheriff shall return the When wrlm
same, with his proceedings indorsed thereon, to the be returned.
clerk of the court where the action was commenced.
§ 163. [161.] The order provided for in section 152 \§>f(tS.1.11.1s62.
[150] shall require such person or ofﬁcer to appear before
such court or judge at a time and place therein stated.
In the proceedings thereafter upon such order, such per
son or association or corporation shall be known as the
garnishee.
§ 164. [162.] After the allowance of the order, and
before such garnishee or oﬂicer thereof shall be thereby
required to appear, or within a time to be speciﬁed in
the order, the plaintiff may serve upon such garnishee
or oﬁicer thereof written allegations and interrogatories
touching any of the property liable to attachment as the
property of the defendant, as provided in subdivision 3
of section 149 [147], and to which such garnishee or
officer thereof is required to give a certiﬁcate as provided
in section 152 [150]. .
§ 165. [163]. On the day when the garnishee or offi
cer thereof shall be required to appear before the court
or judge thereof, he shall return the allegations and in
terrogatories of the plaintiff to the court or judge, with
his written answer thereto, unless for good cause shown
a further time be allowed. Such answer shall be on
oath, and shall contain a full and direct response to all
the allegations and interrogatories.
§166. [164.] If the garnishee or officer thereof fail
to answer, the court or judge thereof, on motion of the
plaintiff, may compel him to do so, or the plaintiff may,
at any time after the entry of judgment against the
defendant in the action, have judgment against the gar
nishee for want of such answer. In no case shall judg
~ ment be given against the garnishee for a greater amount
than the judgment against the defendant in the action.
§ 167. [l65.] The plaintiff may except to the answer
of the garnishee or ofﬁcer thereof for insufﬁciency,
within such time as may be prescribed or allowed, and
if the same be adjudged insufﬁcient, such garnishee or
oﬂicer may be allowed to amend his answer, on such
terms as may be proper, or judgment may be given for
the plaintiff as for want of answer, or such garnishee or
oﬁicer may be compelled to make a suﬁicient answer.
§ 168. [166.] The plaintiff may reply to the whole or
part of the answer within such time as may be prescribed
or allowed, and the issues arising thereon shall be tried_
as ordinary issues of fact between plaintiff and defend- gm-;5_11-1862'
ant. If the answer be not excepted or replied to, within Reply m
the time prescribed or allowed, it shall be taken to be BD>'W¢Y
true and sufficient.
§ 169. [167.] If by the answer it shall appear, or if g)pg:/l1,186?.,|
upon trial it shall be found, that the garnishee, at the '
time of the service upon him or the ofﬁcer thereof 0fd;aii1%1l;!t,em
the copy of the writ of attachment and notice, had any gum“
property of the defendant’s liable to attachment as pro
vided in subdivision 3 of section 149 [147], and as to
which such garnishee or oﬁicer thereof is required to
give a certiﬁcate as provided in section 152 [150], beyond
the amount admitted in the certiﬁcate, or in any amount
if the certiﬁcate was refused, judgment may be given
against such garnishee for the value thereof in money.
The garnishee may at any time before judgment dis
charge himself by delivering, paying, or transferring the
property to the sheriff. ‘
§ 170. [168.] Executions may issue upon judgments pits mas
against a garnishee as upon ordinary judgments between
plaintiff and defendant, and costs and disbursements §;ﬁ3%€‘°“
shall be allowed and recovered in like manner. Wit- gum“
nesses, including the defendant and garnishee or officer
thereof, may be required to appear and testify upon such
proceeding against a garnishee, as upon the trial of an
issue of fact.
§ 171. [169.] The court or judge thereof in its dis- pﬁt5b11.1as2,
cretion may, at the time of the application of the plain- '
as for the order provided for in section 152[150], £1Ddgr?.isd:aligdl]11gst
at any time thereafter before judgment against the gar- gmushea
nishee, by order restrain the garnishee from paying,
transferring, or in any manner disposing of or injuring
any of the property of the defendant, alleged by the
plaintiff to be in the garnishee’s possession, control, or
owing by him to the defendant, and disobedience to
such order may be punished as a contempt.
§ 172. [170.] The proceedings provided for in titles §>f§b_11~1B62
XIII., XIV., and XV. shall be known as provisional mt
remedies. 
§173. [171.] Issues arise upon the pleadings when
a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one
party and controverted by the other. They are of two
kinds, —
1. Of law; and, 
2. Of fact. 
§ 174. [172.] An issue of law arises upon a demur-
rer to the complaint, answer, or reply, or to some part W2
thereof.
§ 175. [173.] An issue of fact arises,— pg.&u.1ss2.
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, con- m Hm‘
troverted by the answer; or,
2. Upon new matter 'in the answer controverted by
the reply; or,
3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of.
law is joined thereon.
§ 176. [174.] Issues both of law and of fact may arise 
upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action. 174'
In such cases the issues of law shall be ﬁrst tried, unless
the court otherwise direct.
§ 177. [175.] A trial is the judicial examination of of_:511,1s:_2:i
the issues between the parties, whether they be issues of
law or of fact.
§ 178. me] An issue of law shall be tried by the OM
court, unless referred as provided in title VI. of chapter 
An issue of fact shall be tried by a jury, unless tried
by the court or referred, as provided in titles V. and VI.
of chapter II.
§179. [177.] A motion to postpone a trial on the
ground of the absence of evidence shall only be made
upon aﬂidavit showing the materiality of the evidence
expected to be obtained, and what diligence has been
used to procure it, and also the name and residence of
the witness or witnesses. The court may also require
the moving party to state upon aﬁidavit the evidence
which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse party
thereupon admit that such evidence would be given, and
that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or
offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be
postponed. The court, when it allows the motion, may
impose such conditions or terms upon the moving party
as may be just.
§ 180. [178.] Trial juries shall be formed as fol1ows:— g>§§k11.1B62.
When the action is called for trial the clerk shall draw Fommonot
from the trial jury box of\the court, one by one, the bal- Inw
lots containing the names of the jurors until the jury is
completed or the ballots are exhausted. If the ballots
become exhausted before the jury is complete, the sheriff,
under the direction of the court, shall summon from the
by-standers, or the body of the county, so many qualiﬁed
persons as may be necessary to complete the jury.
Whenever, as in this section provided, the sheriff shall
summon more than one person at atime from the by
standers or the body of the county, he shall return a list
of the persons so summoned to the clerk. The clerk
shall write the names of such persons upon separate bal
lots, and deposit the same in the trial jury box, and then
draw such ballots therefrom, as in the case of the panel
of trial jurors for the term. The jury shall consist of
twelve persons, unless the parties consent to a less num
ber. Such consent shall be entered in the journal.
§ 181. [179.] No challenge shall be made or allowed
to the panel. A challenge is an objection to a particular
juror, and may be either,—
1. Peremptory; or,
2. For cause.
§ 182. [180.] A peremptory challenge is an objection
to a juror for which no reason need be given, but upon
, _ Peremptory
which the court shall exclude h1m. 
§ 183. [181.] A challenge for cause is an objection to
a juror, and may be either,
1. General; that the juror is disqualiﬁed from serving
in any action; or,
2. Particular; that he is disqualiﬁed from serving in
the action on trial.
§ 184. [182] General causes of challenge are,—
1. A conviction for felony;
2. A want of any of the qualiﬁcations prescribed by
law for a juror;
3. Unsoundness of mind, or such defect in the facul
ties of the mind, or organs of the body, as renders him
incapable of performing the duties of ajuror.
§185. [183.] Particular causes of challenge are of
1. For such a bias as, when the existence of the facts
is ascertained, in judgment of law disqualiﬁes the juror,
and which is known in this code as implied bias.
. For the existence of a state of mind on the part of é)fg.311.1as2,
the juror, in reference to the action, or to either party, '
which satisﬁes the trier, in the exercise of a sound dis- gégg-0.-“git
cretion, that he cannot try the issue impartially and en“
without prejudice to the substantial rights of the party
challenging, and which is known in this code as actual
bias.
§ 186. [184.] A challenge for implied bias may be é>ﬁ§-“11.1862.
taken for any or all of the following causes, and not
othcrwise:——
1. Consanguinity or aﬁinity within the fourth degree
to either party;
2. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, at
torncy and client, master and servant, or landlord and
tenant to the adverse party; or being a member of the
family of, or a partner in business with, or in the em
ployrncnt for wages of, the adverse party; or being surety
or bail in the action called for trial, or otherwise, for the
adverse party;
3. Having served as a juror on a previous trial in the
same action, or in another action between the same
parties for the same cause of action, or in a criminal
action by the state against either party, upon substan
tially the same facts or transaction;
for actual bias:
4. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the
action, or the principal question involved therein.
§ 187. [185.] A challenge for actual bias may be
taken for the cause mentioned in the second subdivision
of section 185 [183].
But on the trial of such challenge,
although it should appear that the juror challenged has
formed or expressed an opinion upon the merits of the
cause from what he may have heard or read, such opinion
shall not of itself be suﬁicient to sustain the challenge,
but the court must be satisﬁed, from all the circum
stances, that the juror cannot disregard such opinion
and try the issue impartially.
§ 188. [186.] An exemption from service on a. jury Oct.11,1B62,
shall not be cause of challenge, but the privilege of the
person exempted.
§ 189. [187.] A peremptory challenge or a challenge
for cause may be taken by either party. \Vhen there
are two or more parties plaintiffs or defendants, they
must join in the challenge or it cannot be taken. Either
party shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges,
and no more.
§ 190. [188.] All challenges shall be taken ﬁrst by
the defendant and then by the plaintiff, and the defend
ant shall exhaust his challenges to a particular juror be
fore the plaintiff begins.
All challenges shall be taken
to each juror as he is drawn and appears, and before an-_ 
other juror is drawn, unless the court, for good cause
shown, shall permit a challenge to be taken afterwards,
and before the number of the jury is completed.
§191. [1S9.] The challenges of either party shall
be taken separately, in the following order, including in
each challenge all the causes of challenge belonging to
the same class:—
1. For general disqualiﬁcation.
2. For implied bias.
3. For actual bias.
4. Peremptory; but either party may take peremptory
challenge at any time before his right of challenge ceases.
§ 192. [190.] The challenge may be excepted to by
the adverse party for insuﬁiciency, and if so the court
shall determine the sufficiency thereof, assuming the
facts alleged therein to be true.
The challenge may be
denied by the adverse party, and if so the court shall
try the issue and determine the law and the fact.
§ 193. [191.] Upon the trial of a challenge, the rules
of evidence applicable to testimony offered upon the trial
of an ordinary issue of fact shall govern. The juror
challenged, or any other person otherwise competent,
may be examined as a witness by either party. If a
challenge be determined to be suﬁicient, or found to be
true, as the case may be, it shall be allowed, and the
juror to whom it was taken excluded. But if determined
or found otherwise, it shall be disallowed.
§ 194. [192.] The challenge, the exception, and the %>v1:;~z11.1862.
denial may be made orally. The judge of the court 52%;
shall note the same upon his minutes, and the substance be 0m
of the testimony on either side.
§ 195. [193.] As soon as the number of the jury has <$>§g33_11.18B1.
been completed, an oath or aﬂirmation shall be admin- Wf
istered to the jurors, in substance that they and each of
them will well and truly try the matter in issue between
the plaintiff and defendant, and a true verdict give ac
cording to the law and evidence as given them on the
trial.
§ 196. [194.] When the jury has been completed and 0ct.22,1870,§8.
sworn the trial shall proceed in the order prescribed in 01-do, Qfpj-(p
. - . dlthis section, unless the court for special reasons other- fiiitngson
wise direct.
1. The plaintiff shall state brieﬂy his cause of action,
and the issue to be tried; the defendant shall then in
like manner state his defense or counterclaim.
2. The plaintiff shall then introduce the evidence on
his part, and when he has concluded the defendant shall
do the same.
3. The parties may then respectively introduce rebut
ting evidence only, unless the court, for good reason,
and in furtherance of justice, permit them to introduce
evidence upon the original cause of action, defense or
counterclaim.
4. Not more than two counsel shall be allowed to ad
dress the jury on behalf of the plaintiff or defendant;
and the whole time occupied on either shall not exceed
two hours, unless the court, for special reasons, shall
otherwise permit.
5. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case is
submitted to the jury on both sides without argument,
the plaintiff shall commence and conclude the argument
to the jury. The plaintiff may waive the opening argu
ment, and if the defendant then argue the case to the
jury, the plaintiff shall have the right to reply to the ar
gument of the defendant, and not otherwise.
6. The court may then charge the jury; and if either
party require it, and shall at the commencement of the
trial give notice of his intention so to do, the charge of
the court, so far as it relates to the law and the facts of
the case, shall be reduced to writing and given to the
jury by the court, as written, without any oral explana
tion. The charge, when reduced to writing, must be
ﬁled with the clerk.
§ 197. [195.] Whenever, in the opinion of the court,
it is proper that the jury should have a view of real
property which is the subject of the litigation, or of the
place in which any material fact occurred, it may order
the jury to be conducted in a body, in the custody of a
proper oﬂicer, to the place, which shall be shown to them
by the judge or by a. person appointed by the court for
that purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no person,
other than the judge or person so appointed, shall speak
to them on any subject connected with the trial.
§198. [196.] The jurors may be kept together in
charge of a proper ofﬁcer, or may, in the discretion of
the court, at any time before the submission of the cause
to them, be permitted to separate; in either case they
may be admonished by the court that it is their duty
not to converse with any other person, or among them
selves, on any subject connected with the trial, or to
express any opinion thereon, until the case is ﬁnally
submitted to them.
§ 199. [197.] If, after the formation of the jury,
before vcrdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to
perform his duty, the court may order him to be (118-juror.
charged.
In that case, unless the parties agree to pro
ceed with the other jurors, a new juror may be sworn,
and the trial begin anew; or the jury may be discharged,
and :1 new jury then or afterwards formed.
and
§i’OO. [198.] In charging the jury, the court shall %)gc.'.!0,1865,
state to them all matters of law which it thinks necessary
for their information in giving their verdict, but it shall
not present the facts of the case, but shall inform the
jury that they are the exclusive judges of all questions
of fact.
§ 201. [199.] A juror may be examined by either party g)g-.911,1862,
as a witness if he be otherwise competent.
If he be
not so examined, he shall not communicate any private witness.
knowledge or information that he may have of the mat
ter in controversy to his fellow-jurors, nor be governed
by the same in giving his verdict.
§ 202. [200.] After hearing the charge, the jury may 033,11, 1862,
either decide in the jury box or retire for deliberation. 9—‘__
If they retire, they must be kept together in a room
provided for them, or some other convenient place, under
the charge of one or more oﬂicers, until they agree upon
their verdict or are discharged by the court. The oth
cer shall, to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury
thus together separate from other persons, without drink,
except water, and without food, except ordered by the
court. He must not suffer any communication to be
made to them, nor make any himself, unless by the order
of the court, except to ask them if they have agreed
upon their verdict, and he shall not, before the verdict
is rendered, communicate to any person the state of
their deliberations or the verdict agreed on. Before any
officer takes charge of a jury, this section shall be read
to him, and he shall be then sworn to conduct himself
according to its provisions to the utmost of his ability.
§203. [201.] If, while the jury are kept together,
either during the progress of the trial or after their re
tirement for deliberation, the court order them to be
provided with suitable and sufficient food and lodging,
they shall be so provided by the sheriff, at the expense
of the county.
§ 204. [202.] Upon retiring for deliberation, the $3)-L11.m2
jury may take with them the pleadings in the cause, and wmpapm
all papers which have been received as evidence on the My my take
trial (except depositions), or copies of such parts of
public records or private documents given in evidence
as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be taken
from the person having them in possession. They may
also take with them notes of the testimony or other pro
ceedings on the trial taken by themselves, or any of
them, but none taken by any other person.
§ 205. [203.] After the jury have retired for delibera- 11,1862,
tion, if there be a disagreement between them as to any
part of the testimony, or if they desire to be informed of
any point of law arising in the case, they may require
the oﬂicer having them in charge to conduct them into
court.
Upon their being brought into court, the infor
mation required shall be given in the presence of or
after notice to the parties or their attorneys.
§ 206. [204.] Except as provided in sections 199 [197] 0%,‘ 11, um,
and 209 [207], or in case of some accident or calamity
requiring their discharge, the jury shall not be discharged
after the cause is submitted to them until they have
agreed upon a verdict and given it in open court, unless
by the consent of both parties entered in the journal, or
Dhchu.“ unless at the expiration of such period as the court deem
vimmsivlns proper, it satisfactorily appears that there is no proba
verdict.
bility of an agreement.
5 207. [205.] In all cases where a jury are discharged,
_or prevented from giving a verdict, by reason of accident
8%-i1L1w%
§£§§’fét‘?§ or other cause, during the progress of the trial, or after
"8 ' the cause is submitted to them, the action may be again
tried immediately, or at a. future time, as the court di
rects.
§ 208. [206.] While the jury are absent the court
——'_ may adjourn from time to time, in respect to other busi
Courtdeemed
0 nuntll ury ness, but it is nevertheless to be deemed open for every
(I scharge . . . .
purpose connected with the cause submitted to the jury
until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. A
ﬁnal adjournment of the court discharges the jury.
Oct, 11,1802, § 209. [207.] \Vhen the jury have agreed upon their
Lverdict, they shall be conducted into court by the ofﬁcer
jJ§§;‘§{,'§§,§{ having them in charge. Their names shall then be
iialﬁgnlury called, and if all do not appear the rest shall be dis
charged without giving a verdict.
Oct.11,1562, § 210. [208.] If the jury appear, they shall be asked
Lby the court or the clerk whether they have agreed upon
i)ii?;n\iJeei'ldl,1iLg1v- their verdict; and if the foreman answer in the aﬂirma
tive, he shall, on being required, declare the same.
§>§&)_11-186% §211. [209.] When a verdict is given and before it is
Pomngjuryi ﬁled, the jury may be polled on the request of either
party, for which purpose each shall be asked whether it
be his verdict; if any juror answer in the negative the
jury shall be sent out for further deliberation. If the
verdict be informal or insufficient, it may be corrected
by the jury under the advice of the court, or the jury
may again be sent out.
§ 212. [210.] When the verdict is given, and is such
as the court may receive, and if no juror disagree or the
jury be not again sent out, the clerk shall ﬁle the verdict.
The verdict is then complete, and the jury shall be
discharged from the case. The verdict shall be in writ
ing, and under the direction of the court shall be
substantially entered in the journal as of the,day’s pro
ceedings on which it was given.

§ 213. [210 a..] The verdict of a jury is either general 06.11.1862.
or special. A general verdict is that by which the jury
pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues, either
. . . . .
in favor of the plamtdf or defendant. A special verd1ct
_ _ _ .
is that by Wh1Ch the jury ﬁnd the facts only, leaving the
_
Judgment to the court.
§ 214. [211.] In an action for the recovery of speciﬁc
personal property, if the property have not been delivered
to the plaintiff, or the defendant by his answer claim a
return thereof, the jury shall assess the value of the
property, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintiff, or
if they ﬁnd in favor of the defendant, and that he is
entitled to a return thereof, and may at the same time
assess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint
or answer, which the prevailing party' has sustained by
reason of the detention or taking and withholding such
property.
§ 215. [212.] In every action for the recovery of
money only, or speciﬁc real property, the jury, in their
discretion, may render a general or special verdict. In
all other cases the court may direct the jury to ﬁnd a
special verdict upon all or any of the issues; and in all
cases may instruct them, if they render a general verdict,
to ﬁnd upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in
writing. The special verdict or ﬁnding shall be ﬁled
with the clerk and entered in the journal, as provided in
title III. of this chapter.
§ 216. [213.] When a special ﬁnding of facts shall be
inconsistent with the general verdict, the former shall
control the latter, and the court shall give judgment
accordingly.
§ 217. [214.] When a verdict is found for the plaintiff

in an action for recovery of money, or for the defendant
when a counterclaim for the recovery of money is estab
lished beyond the amount of the plaintiff's claim as
established, the jury shall also assess the amount of re
eovery; they may also, under the direction of the court,
assess the 0.m0unt of the recovery when the court give
judgment for the plaintiff on the answer.

§ 218. [215.] Trial by jury may be waived by the
several parties to an issue of fact, in actions on contract,
and with the assent of the court in other actions, in the
manner following: -—
1. By failing to appear at the trial;
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, ﬁled
with the clerk;
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the min
utes.
§ 219. [216.] Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the
court, its decision shall be given in writing, and ﬁled
with the clerk during the term or within twenty days
thereafter. The decision shall state the facts found and
the conclusion of law separately, without argument or
reason therefor. Such decision shall be entered in the
journal, and judgment entered thereon accordingly. The
court may deliver any argument or reason in support of
such decision, either orally or in writing, separate from
the decision, and ﬁle the same with the clerk.
§2‘20. [217.] The order of proceedings on a trial by
the court shall be the same as provided in trials by jury.
The ﬁnding of the court upon the facts shall be deemed
a verdict, and may be set aside in the same manner and
for the same reasons, as far as applicable, and a new trial
granted.
§ 221. [218.] All or any of the issues in the action,
whether of fact or law, or both, may be referred upon
the written consent of the parties.
§ 222. [219.] When the parties do not consent, the
court may, upon the application of either, or of its own
motion, direct a reference in the following cases:—
1. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the
examination of a long account on either side, in which
case the referees may be directed to hear and decide the
whole issue, or to report upon any speciﬁc question of
fact involved therein; or,
2. When the taking of ‘an account shall be necessary
for the information of the court, before judgment upon
an issue of law, or for carrying a judgment or order into
effect ; or,
3. When a question of fact, other than upon the plead
ings, shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of
the action; or,
4. When it is necessary for the information of the
court in a special proceeding.
1. Qualiﬁed as a juror as provided by statute;
2. Competent as a juror between the parties.
§225. [$222.] When the referees are chosen by the
court, each party shall have the same right of challenge,
as to such referees, to be made and determined in the
same manner and with like effect as in the formation of
juries, except that neither party shall be entitled to a
peremptory challenge.
§226. [223.] Subject to the limitations and direc-
tions prescribed in the order of reference, the trial by
referees shall be conducted in the same manner as a trial
by the court.
They shall have the same power to grant
adjournments, administer oaths, to preserve order and
punish all violations thereof upon such trial, and to com
pel the attendance of witnesses, and to punish them for
non-attendance or refusal to be sworn or testify as is
possessed by the court.
§ 227. [224.] The report of the referees shall state the
facts found, and when the order of reference includes an
issue of law, it shall state the conclusions of law sepa
rately from the facts. The referees shall ﬁle with their
report the evidence received upon thetrial. If evidence
offered by either party shall not be admitted on the trial,
and the party offering the same except to the decision
rejecting such evidence at the time, the exception shall
be noted by the referees, and they shall take and receive
such testimony, and ﬁle it with the report. Whatever
judgment the court may give upon the report, it shall,
when it appears that such evidence was frivolous or in
admissible, require the party at whose instance it was
taken and reported to pay all costs and disbursements
thereby incurred.
§ 228. [225.] The report shall be ﬁled with the clerk.
If it be ﬁled in term time, either party may within such
time as may be prescribed by the rules of the court, or
by special order, move to set the same aside or for judg
ment thereon, or such order or proceeding as the nature
of the case may require. If the report be ﬁled in vaca
tion, the like proceedings may be had at the next term
following.
§ 229. [226.] The court may aﬂirm or set aside the
report either in whole or in part. If it affirm the report,
it shall give judgment accordingly. If the report be set
aside either in whole or in part, the court may make
another order of reference, as to all or so much of the
report as is set aside, to the original referees, or others,
or it may ﬁnd the facts and determine the law itself, and
give judgment accordingly. Upon a motion to set aside
a report, the conclusions thereof shall be deemed and con
sidered as the verdict of a jury.
§230. [227 .] An exception is an objection taken at
the trial to a decision upon matter of law, whether such
trial be by jury or court, and whether the decision be
made during the formation of a jury, or in the admission
of evidence, or in the charge to the jury, or at any other
time from the calling of the action for trial to the ren
dering of the verdict or decision.
But no exception shall
be regarded on a motion for a new trial, or on an appeal,
unless the exception be material and affect the substan
tial rights of the parties.
§ 231. [228.] The point of the exception shall be par
ticularly stated, and may be delivered, in writing, to the
judge, or entered in his minutes, and at the time or
afterwards, be corrected until made conformable to the
truth. If an objection is made to any ruling of the
court in the progress of a trial, and the truth of the
statement thereof is not agreed upon between the coun
sel and the court, the counsel may verify his statement
thereof, by his own oath and that of two respectable and
disinterested by-standers, and ﬁle the same as an excep
tion to the ruling objected to. Such statement must be
ﬁled within the day that the objection is made, and not
otherwise. Within one day thereafter, the adverse party
may ﬁle a statement of the objection as prepared or
approved by the court, together with the affidavits of not
more than three respectable and disinterested by-standers
concerning the truth or falsity of the statement of the
exception as ﬁled by the, counsel, and prepared or ap
proved by the court. Each statement of the exception,
and all afﬁdavits concerning either of them when ﬁled
as herein required, shall be deemed a part of the record
of the cause, and upon an appeal or review, the appel
late court must ﬁrst ascertain therefrom the truth of
the matter, as far as possible, and then determine the
law arising thereon. The court must allow the counsel
a reasonable time to procure the veriﬁcation of his state
ment as herein required; and all atﬁdavits of by-standers
shall be taken by the clerk of the court, who must certify
thereon, if he is satisﬁed of the fact that the by-stander
is respectable and disinterested.
§ 232. [229.] No particular form of exception shall be
required. The objection shall be stated with so much
of the evidence or other matter as is necessary to explain
it, but no more.
§233. [230.] The statement of the exception, when
settled and allowed, shall be signed by the judge and
ﬁled with the clerk, and thereafter it shall be deemed and
taken to be a part of the record of the cause. No excep
tion need be taken or allowed to any decision upon a
matter of law when the same is entered in the journal,
or made wholly upon matters in writing and on ﬁle in
the court.
§234. [231.] A new trial is a re-examination of an
W'hen counter-aﬂidavits allowed.
issue of fact in the same court after a trial and decision
or verdict by a court or jury.
§235. [232.] The former verdict or other decision
may be set aside and a new trial granted, on the mo
tion of the party aggrieved, for any of the following
causes materially affecting the substantial rights of such
party:—
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury,
or adverse party, or any order of the court, or abuse of
discretion, by which such party was prevented from
having a fair trial;
2. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party;
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could
not have guarded against;
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
making the application, which he could not with reason
able diligence have discovered and produced at the trial;
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given
under the influence of passion or prejudice;
6. Insuﬁiciency of the evidence to justify the verdict
or other decision, or that it is against law;
7. Error in law occurring at the trial, and excepted to
by the party making the application.
§236. [233.] A motion
for a new trial, with the
aﬂidavits, if any, in support thereof, shall be ﬁled within
one day after giving the
sought to be set aside.
verdict or other decision
When the adverse party is en
titled to oppose the motion by counter-aﬂidavits, he shall
ﬁle the same within one day after the ﬁling of the motion.
The motion shall be heard and determined during the
term, unless the court continue the same for advisement,
or want of time to hear it.
When not so heard and de
termined or continued, it shall be deemed withdrawn,
and may be disregarded.
§237. [23/1.] Upon a trial by -the court, when the
decision is given in vacation, a motion for a new trial
shall be filed within twenty days from the time of ﬁling
such decision. If the next regular term of said court
shall commence within less than twenty days-' from the
time of ﬁling such decision, then such motion shall be
ﬁled by the ﬁrst day of said-term. In either case the
adverse party may, within four days after the ﬁling of
the motion, ﬁle counter-aﬁidavits where the same are
allowed.
§ 238. [235.] In all cases of motion for a new trial,
the grounds thereof shall be plainly speciﬁed, and no
cause of new trial not so stated shall be considered or
regarded by the court. When the motion is made for a
cause mentioned in subdivisions 1, 2, 3, or 4 of section
235 [232], it shall be upon aﬁidavit setting forth the
facts upon which such motion is based.
§ 239. [236.] If the motion be supported by aﬁidavits,
counter-afﬁdavits may be offered by the adverse
party; and if the cause be newly discovered evidence,
the aﬁidavits of any witness or witnesses showing what
their testimony will be shall be produced, or good rea
sons shown for their non-production; and in the consid
eration of any motion for a new trial, reference may be
had to any proceedings in the case prior to the verdict
or other decision sought to be set aside.
§ 240. [237.] Any party may, when the evidence is
. . . . . ..
closed, submit in distinct and concise propositions the
conclusions of fact which he claims to be established, or
the conclusions of law which he desires to be adjudged,
or both. They may be written and handed to the court,
or, at the option of the court, oral, and entered in the
judge’s minutes.
§241. [238.] All questions of fact other than those
'mentioi1ed in section 242 [239] shall be decided by the
jury, and all evidence thereon addressed to them.
§ 242. [239.] All questions of law, including the ad
missibility of testimony, the facts preliminary to such
admission, and the construction of statutes and other
writings, and other rules of evidence, are to be decided
by the court, and all discussions of law addressed to it.
And whenever the knowledge of the court is by this
code made evidence of a fact, the court is to declare such
knowledge to the jury, who are bound to accept it as con
elusive.
§ 243. [£240.] A judgment is the ﬁnal determination
of the rights of the parties in the action.
5 244. [241] Judgment

may be given for or against
one or more of several plaintiffs, and for or against one
or more of several defendants; and it may, when the
justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate
rights of the parties on each side as between themselves.
§ 245. [242.] In an action against several defendants,
the court may, in its discretion, render judgment against
one or more of them, whenever a several judgment is
proper, leaving the action to proceed against the others.
§246. [243.] A judgment of nonsuit may be given
against the plaintiff as provided in this title,-—
1. On motion of the plaintiff, at any time before trial
unless a counterclaim has been pleaded as a defense.
2. On motion of either party, upon the written con
sent of the other ﬁled with the clerk. I
3. On motion of the defendant, when the action is
called for trial, and the plaintiff fails to appear, or when
after the trial has begun, and before the ﬁnal submission
of the cause, the plaintiff abandons it, or when upon the
trial the plaintiff fails to prove a. cause sufﬁcient to be
submitted to the jury.
§ 247. [244.] A cause not suﬂicient to be submitted
to the jury is one where it appears that if the jury were
to ﬁnd a verdict for the plaintiff upon any or all of the
issues to be tried, the court ought, if required, to set it
aside for want of evidence to support it.
See § 246 [243], ante.
§ 248. [245.] When a judgment of nonsuit is given
the action is dismissed; but such judgment shall not
have the effect to bar another action for the same cause.
§ 249. [246.] Judgment may be had upon failure to
answer, as foll0ws:—- '
When the time for answering the complaint has expired,
and it appears that the defendant, or one or more
of several defendants, in the cases mentioned in section
60 [59], has been duly served with the summons and has
failed to answer the complaint, the plaintiff shall be en
titled to have judgment against such defendant or de
fend-ants,—
1. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery
of money or damages only; if no answer has been ﬁled
with the clerk of the court within the time speciﬁed in
the snmmons,_or such further time as may have been
granted by the court or judge thereof, the clerk, upon
the application of the plaintiff made in writing and ﬁled
with the clerk, shall enter the default of the defendant,
and immediately thereafter enter judgment for the
amount speciﬁed in the summons, including the costs of
the defendant, or against one or more of several defend
ants, in cases provided for in section 60 [59];
2. In other actions, if no answer has been ﬁled with
the clerk of the court within the time speciﬁed in the
summons, or such further time as may have been granted
by the court or judge thereof, the clerk shall, upon the
written motion of the plaintiff being ﬁled, enter the de
fault of the defendant, and thereafter the plaintiff may
apply at the ﬁrst or any subsequent term of the court
for the relief demanded in the complaint; and the court
shall, upon such demand, give judgment for the amount
claimed in the summons, or the relief demanded in the
complaint, unless it be necessary, to enable the court to
give judgment or carry the same into effect, to take proof
of any matter of fact, in which case the court may order
the entry of judgment to be delayed until such proof be
taken. The court may hear the proof itself, or make an
order of reference, or that a jury be called to inquire
thereof;
3. When the defendant has answered, and admits the
plaintiff’s claim, but sets up a counterclaim amounting
to less than the plaintiff’s claim, the plaintiff, on motion,
shall have judgment for the excess of his claim over such
counterclaim, as for want of answer thereto;
4. When in any action the service of the summons
appears to have been made by publication, the court
may, in its discretion, order the entry ofjudgment to be
delayed until the plaintiff ﬁle with the clerk an under-
taking, with one or more sureties, to be approved by the
clerk, in an amount equal to the sum for which judg
ment may be given, upon the condition that the plaintiff
will abide by and perform any order of the court requir
ing restitution to be made to the defendant or his repre
sentative in case either of them shall afterwards be
admitted to defend the action. The sureties in the
undertaking shall have the qualiﬁcations of bail, and
justify before the clerk as provided in section 118 [116].
250. [247.] On the confession of the defendant, with
the assent of the plaintiff or his attorney, judgment may
be given against the defendant in any action, before or
after answer, for any amount or relief not exceeding or
different from that demanded in the complaint.
§251. [248.] When the
action is against the state, a
county or other public corporation therein, or a private
corporation, or a minor, the confession shall be made by
sustains the relation to such
state, corporation, county, or minor as would authorize
the service of a summons upon him; or in the case of a
minor, if a guardian for the action has been appointed,
In all other cases the confession
shall be made by the defendant in person.
§252. [249.] When the action is upon a. contract,
and against one or more defendants jointly liable, judg-
ment may be given on the confession of one or more
defendants against all the defendants thus jointly liable,
whether such defendants have been served with the
summons or not, to be enforced only against their joint
property, and against the joint and separate property of
the defendant making the confession.
§ 253. [250.] The confession and assent thereto shall
be in writing, and subscribed by the parties or their at-
torneys making the same, and acknowledged by each
before some officer authorized to take acknowledgments
of deeds; but such acknowledgment is not required when
the parties or their attorneys shall appear in court when
the judgment is given, or before the clerk in vacation by
whom the judgment is entered. In all cases, the confes
sion and assent thereto, and the acknowledgment, if any,
shall be ﬁled with the clerk.
§ 254. [251.] On the confession of any person capa-
hle by this code of being made a party defendant to an
action at law, judgment may be given against such per-
son, without action, in term time or vacation, in favor
of any one, either for money due or to become due, or
to secure any person against contingent liability on be
half of the defendant in such judgment, or both if it be
in favor of the same person.
§ 255. [252.] The confession shall be made, a
to, and acknowledged, and judgment given in th
manner as a confession in
an action pending;
which, the confession shall be veriﬁed by the oatl
party making it, and shall authorize a. judgmen
given for a particular sum.
If it be for money
to become due, it shall state plainly and concis
facts out of which such indebtedness arose, an
show that the sum confessed therefor is justly (1!
become due.
§ 256. [253.]
If it be for the purpose of securing the
plaintiff in the Judgment against a contingent liability,
it shall state plainly and concisely the facts constituting
such liability, and shall show that the sum confessed
therefor does not exceed the same. When judgment
is given so as to be payable in installments, executions
may issue to enforce the payment of such installments
as they become due.
§ 257.
[254.] Parties to a question in controversy
Which might be the subject of an action at law in a court
of record, with such parties plaintiffs or defendants, may
submit the same to the determination of such court
without action, as in this title provided.
§ 258. [255.] The parties as plaintiff and defendant
shall state, in writing, a case containing the facts upon
which the controversy depends, and subscribe the same
in person or by their attorneys.
Such statement shall
be veriﬁed by the oaths of the parties, or where there is
more than one plaintiff or defendant, by at least one of
each, to the effect that the controversy is real, and the
proceeding is taken in good faith to determine the rights
22
of the parties. Where either party to the controversy is
the state, a county or other public corporation therein,
or a private corporation or minor, the statement of the
case maybe subscribed and veriﬁed by any person who
at the time sustains the relation to such state, corpora
tion, county, or minor as would authorize the service of
a summons upon him.
§259. [256.] The statement shall be ﬁled with the
clerk, and from the date of such ﬁling the court shall
have jurisdiction of the controversy as if the same were
an action pending after a special verdict found, and shall
proceed to hear and determine the same accordingly.
§ 260. [257.] All judgments shall be entered by the
clerk in the journal, and shall specify clearly the amount
to be recovered, the relief granted, or other determina
tion of the action. If entered in vacation, the entry
shall be entitled and dated substantially as follows:—
STATE or OREGON, '
Counrv or i
-— Court for the County of . In vacation, after
the—-— Term, A. D. 186—. the A. D. 186-—,
as the fact may be, and such entry shall have the same
effect as if entered in term time.
In the entry of all judgments, except judgments by
default for want of an answer, the clerk shall be subject
to the direction of the court.
§ 261. [258.] If a counterclaim established at the
trial exceed the plaintiff’s demand so established, judg-
ment for the defendant shall be given for the excess; or
if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other
aﬁirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.
§ 262. [259.] In an action to recover the possession
of personal property, judgment for the plaintiﬂ‘ may be
for the possession, or the value thereof in case a de-
livery cannot be had, and damages for the detention
thereof. If the property have been delivered to the
plaintiff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judg
ment for the defendant may be for a return of the prop
erty, or the value thereof in case a return cannot be had,
and damages for taking and withholding the same.
 263. [260.] When judgment is given for want of an-
swer, the entry shall state substantially that the defendant
has been duly served with the summons, and has failed
to answer the complaint. When judgment is given on
confession, with or without action, on the report of refer
ees, or on a controversy submitted without action, the
entry shall state in like manner the confession and assent
thereto, the report of the referees, or agreed case, as the
case may be.
§264. [261.] When a decision has been made sus-
taining or overruling a. demurrer, unless the party
against whom the decision is 1nade be allowed to amend
Or plead over, judgment shall be given for the plaintiff‘
or defendant, as the case may be, for such amount or re
lief, or to such effect, as it appears from the pleadings he
, . . . . .
is entitled to; but if the cause is otherwise at issue upon
a question of fact, the court may order the entry of judg
ment to be delayed until such issue be tried or otherwise
disposed of.
§ 265. [262] When judgment is given in any of the
cases mentioned in sections 263 [260] and 264 [261],
unless otherwise ordered by the court, it shall be entered
by the clerk within the day it is given. Except as in
this section hereinafter provided, when a trial by the
court has been had, judgment shall be entered by the
clerk in conformity with the decision within two days
from the time the same is ﬁled; or if the trial he by jury,
judgment shall be given by the court in conformity there
with, and entered by the clerk within two days from the
time the verdict has been received, and in either case
within the term at which such judgment is given,—
1. When the court is in doubt what judgment ought to
be given, it may order the question to be reserved for argu
ment or further consideration, and thereupon the entry
of judgment shall be delayed until judgment be given;
2. When, within the time allowed to ﬁle a motion for
new trial, either party shall ﬁle a motion for a particular
judgment, or for judgment notwithstanding the verdict
or decision; or,
3. When a motion for new trial is ﬁled within the time
prescribed, the entry of judgment shall be thereby de
layed until the motion is disposed of;
4. When, upon a trial by the court, its decision is ﬁled
in vacation, the entry ofjudgment shall be delayed until
the expiration of the time prescribed to ﬁle a motion for
a new trial.
§ 266. [263.] When it appears from the pleadings
that the court has not jurisdiction of the subject of the
action or the person of the defendant, or that the facts
stated in the pleadings of the plaintiff or defendant, as
the case may be, do not constitute a cause of action or
defense thereto, and that such objection has not been
taken by demurrer or answer, on motion judgment shall
be given for the plaintiff or defendant, as the case may
be, notwithstanding the verdict or decision.

§267. [264.] When a. motion for new trial, for a0c
particular judgment, or for a judgment notwithstanding
the verdict, is decided in vacation, the decision shall be l
in writing and filed with the clerk. Within the day of l
such ﬁling, judgment shall be entered by the clerk in f
conformity with the decision.
§268. [265.] When the clerk is unable or omits to
enter judgment within the time prescribed in this title,
if the judgment has been given in vacation it may be
entered at any time thereafter, of the date which it is
actually entered; if it has been given in term time, it
may be entered at any time during the term, of the day’s
proceedings on which it should have been entered, or,
on motion of the party entitled, at any subsequent term,
of the day on which it is actually entered.

§269. [266]. Immediately
ment in any action, the clerk shall docket the same in
0$
J
w
v
w
the judgment docket. At any time thereafter, while an
execution might issue upon such judgment, and the same
remains unsatisﬁed in whole or in part, the plaintiﬁ', or
in case of his death his representative, may ﬁle a certiﬁed
transcript of the original docket in the oiﬁce of the
county clerk of any county in this state. Upon the
ﬁling of such transcript, the clerk shall docket the same
in the judgment docket of his oﬂice. From the date of
docketing a judgment as in this title provided, or the
transcript thereof, such judgment shall be a lien upon
all the real property of the defendant within the county
or counties where the same is docketed, or which he may‘
afterwards acquire therein, during the time an execution
may issue thereon.
after the entry of judgment, 0
§270. [£267.] Whenever,
a period of ten years shall elapse without an execution
being issued on such judgment, the lien thereof shall 3
If afterwards leave is given to issue execution
thereon, a transcript of the docket of the order allowing
expire.
state, in the same manner
in any other county in the
the same may be docketed
as a judgment. From the
date of docketing such order or a transcript thereof, the
lien of the judgment shall begin anew and continue in
all respects as upon the ﬁrst docketing of the same.
§ 271. .[268.] A conveyance of real property or-any
portion thereof or interest therein shall be void as against
the lien of a judgment unless such conveyance be re
corded at the time of docketing such judgment orthe
transcript thereof, as the case may be, or unless it be re
corded within the time after its execution provided by
law, as between conveyances for the same real property.
§ 272. [269.] After docketing the judgment, and be
fore the next regular term of the court, the clerk shall
prepare and ﬁlc in his oiﬁce the judgment roll as pro
Vided in this section,
1. If the complaint has not been answered by any de
E
fendant, he shall attach together in the order 01
ﬁling, issuing, and entry, the complaint, summer
proof of service, and a copy of the entry of judgm‘
2. In all other cases, he shall attach together
manner the summons and proof of service, the plez
bill of exceptions, all orders relating to change of I
together with a copy of the entry of judgment, a
other journal entries or orders in any way involvi
merits and necessarily affecting the judgment.
3. In all cases, the clerk shall attach upon the (
of the judgment roll a blank sheet of paper, upon
he shall indorse the name of the court, the term at
judgment was given, the names of the parties to
tion and the title thereof, for whom judgment was
and the amount or nature thereof, and the date
entry and docketing.
§ 273. [270.] Instead of the judgment roll prescribed
in section 272 [269], there shall be a final record made
of the cause, as provided in this section,
1. When in any action it shall appear that the title to
real property, or any interest therein, or any easement,
franchise, or right in or to the same, is directly deter
mined or affected by the judgment therein, on motion of
either party the court shall order that a ﬁnal record be
made of the cause, and the expense of such record shall
be taxed as other disbursements of the action.
2. In all other actions, on motion of either party, the
court shall order that a ﬁnal record be made of the cause,
at the cost of the party moving for the same.
When a ﬁnal record is ordered, it shall be made by the
clerk within the time prescribed to prepare a judgment
roll, by recording the papers and journal entries, re
quired in such roll, in the order prescribed therefor.
§ 274. [271.] The party in whose favor a judgment
is given which requires the payment of money, the
delivery of real or personal property, or either of them,
may at any time after the entry thereof have a writ of
execution issued for its enforcement, as provided in this
title.
§ 275. [272.] There shall be three kinds of cxecutions:
one against the property of the judgment debtor,
another against his person, and the third for the delivery
of the possession of real or personal property, or such
delivery with damages for withholding the same.
§ 276. [273.] The writ of execution shall be issued
by the clerk and directed to the sheriff. It shall
contain thename of the court, the names of the parties
to the action, and the title thereof; it shall substantially
describe the judgment, and if it be for money, shall state
the amount actually due thereon, and shall require the
sheriff substantially as follows:—
1. If it be against the property of the judgment
debtor, and the judgment directs particular property to
be sold, it shall require the sheriff to sell such particular
property and apply the proceeds as directed by the judg
ment; otherwise it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the
judgment, with interest, out of the personal property of
such debtor, and if suﬂicient personal property cannot
be found, then out of the real property belonging to him
on the day when the judgment was docketed in the
county, or at any time thereafter.
2. If it be issued after the death of the judgment
debtor, and be against real or personal property, it shall
require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest,
put of any property in the hands of the debtor's personal
relatives [representatives], heirs, devisees, legatees, ten
ants of real property, or trustees as such.
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor,
it shall require the sheriff to arrest such debtor and
commit him to the jail of the county until he shall pay
the judgment, with interest, or be discharged according
to law.
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or
personal property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver
the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to
the party entitled thereto, and may, at the same time,
require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, charges, damages,
or rents and proﬁts recovered by the same judgment,
out of the personal property of the party against whom
it was rendered, and the value of the property for which
the judgment was recovered to be speciﬁed therein, if a
delivery thereof cannot be had; and if sufficient personal
property cannot be found, then out of the real property,
as provided in the ﬁrst subdivision of this section, and
in that respect it is to be deemed an execution against
property.
§ 277. [274.] When the execution is against the property
of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the6
sheriff of any county in this state.
\Vhen it requires
delivery of real or personal property, it shall be issued
to the sheriff of the county where the property or some
part thereof is situated. Executions may be issued at
the same time to different counties.
§ 278. [275.] The sheriff shall indorse upon a writ of
execution the time when he received the same, and such
execution shall be returnable, within sixty days after its
receipt by the sheriff, to the clerk’s oﬁice from whence it
issued.
§ 279. [276.] If the action be one in which the de
fendant might have been arrested, as provided by section,
108 [106], an execution against the person of the judg
ment debtor may be issued to any county within the
state after the return of the execution against his prop
erty unsatisﬁed in whole or in part, as follows:—
1. When it appears from the record that the cause of
action is also a cause of arrest, as prescribed in section
108 [106], such execution may issue of course;
2. When no such cause of arrest appears from the
record, such execution may issue for any of_ the causes
prescribed in section 108 [106] that may exist at the
time of the application therefor, upon leave of the court
or judge thereof;
3. When the defendant has been provisionally arrested
in the action, or an order has been made allowing such
arrest, and in either case the order has not been vacated,
such execution may issue of course;
4. When execution is issued against the person of the
defendant by leave of the court, it shall be applied for
and allowed in the manner provided in section 109 [107]
for allowing a writ of arrest, except that the undertaking
need not be for an amount exceeding the judgment. A
defendant arrested on execution, who has not been
arrested provisionally, may at any time be discharged
from such arrest for the causes and in the manner pro
vided in sections 130 [128] and 131 [129], for the dis
charge of a defendant who has been provisionally arrested.
See chapter 1, title 13, ante.
§ 280. [277.] A person arrested on execution shall be
imprisoned in the county jail, and kept at his own ex
pense until satisfaction of the execution or his legal dis
charge, but the plaintiff shall be liable in the ﬁrst in
stance for such expense, as in other cases of arrest, in
the same manner and to the same extent as prescribed
in sections 128 [126] and 129 [l27].
§ 281. [278.] Notwithstanding the death of a party
after judgment, execution thereon against his property,
or for the delivery of real or personal property, may be
issued and executed in the same manner and with the
same effect as if he were still living; but such execution
shall not issue within six months from the granting of
letters testamentary or of administration upon the estate
of such party, without leave of the county court or judge
thereof.
§ 282. [279.] All property, including franchises, or
rights or interest therein, of the judgment debtor, shall
be hable to an execution, except as 1n this section pro-
. . . . .
vided. The following property shall be exempt from
execution, if selected and reserved by the judgment
debtor or his agent at the time of the levy, or as soon
thereafter before sale thereof as the same shall be known
to him, and not otherwise: —
1. Books, pictures, and musical instruments owned by
any person, to the value of seventy-ﬁve dollars.
2. Necessary wearing apparel owned by any person, to
the value of one hundred dollars, and if such person be
a householder, for each member of his family to the value
of ﬁfty dollars.
3. The tools, implements, apparatus, team, vehicle,
harness, or library necessary to enable any person to
carry on the trade, occupation, or profession by which
such person habitually earns his living, to the value of
four hundred dollars. Also suﬂicient quantity of food
to support such team, if any, for sixty days; the word
“team” in this subdivision shall not be construed to
include more than one yoke of oxen, or a span of horses
or mules, as the case may be.
4. The following property, if owned by a householder,
and in actual use or kept for use, by and for his family,
or when being removed from one habitation to another
on a change of residence: Ten sheep, with one year’s
ﬂeece, or the yarn or cloth manufactured therefrom; two
cows and ﬁve swine, household goods, furniture and uten~
sils, to the value of three hundred dollars; also food suf
ﬁcient to support such animals, if any, for three months,
and provisions actually provided for family use, and
necessary for the support of such householder and family
for six months.
5. The seat or pew occupied by a householder or his
family in a place of public worship.
6. All property of the state, or any county, incorporated
city, town, or village therein, or of any other public or
municipal corporation of like character.
7. No article of property, or if the same has been sold
or exchanged, then neither the proceeds of such sale nor
the article received in exchange therefor, shall be exempt
from execution issued on a judgment recovered for its
price.
§ 283. [280.] When the writ of execution is against
the property of the judgment debtor, it shall be executed
by the sheriff as follows:—
1. If property has been attached, he shall indorse
on the execution, and pay to the clerk forthwith, the
amount, if any, of the proceeds of sales of perishable
property, or debts due the defendant received by him,
sufficient to satisfy the judgment.
2. If the judgment is not then satisﬁed, and property
has been attached and remains in his custody, he shall
sell the same or suﬂicient thereof to satisfy the judgment.
3. If then any portion of the judgment remains un
satisﬁed, or if no property has been attached, or the same
has been discharged, he shall levy on the property of the
judgment debtor sufficient to satisfy the judgment.
4. Property shall be levied on in like manner and
with like effect as similar property is attached, as pro
vided in sections 149 [147], 150 [148], and 152 [150],
omitting the ﬁling of the certiﬁcate provided for in sec
tion 151 [149].
5. Until a levy, property shall not be affected by the
execution. When property has been sold or debts re
ceived by the sheriff on execution, he shall pay the pro
ceeds thereof, or sufficient to satisfy the judgment, to
the clerk by the day which the writ is returnable.
6. When property has been attached, and it is prob
able that such property will not be sufficient to satisfy
the judgment, the execution may be levied on other
property of the judgment debtor, without delay. If after
satisfying the judgment any property or the proceeds
thereof remain in the custody of the sheriff, he shall de
liver the same to the judgment debtor.
.9
§ 284. [281.] In the case of property in the possession
of or owing from any garnishee mentioned in section
152 [150], the sheriﬂ' shall proceed as follows:—
1. If it appear from the certiﬁcate of the garnishee
that he is owing a debt to the judgment debtor, which is
then due, if such debt is not paid by such garnishee to
the sheriff on demand, he shall levy on the property of the
garnishee for the amount thereof, in all respects as if
the execution was against the property of the garnishee.
But if such debt he not then due, the sheriff shall sell the
same according to the certiﬁcate, as other property.
2. If in like manner it appear that the judgment
debtor has rights or shares in the stock of the garnishee
as provided in section 152, the sheriff shall sell the same
according to the certiﬁcate, as other property.
3. If in like manner it appear that the garnishee has
other personal property of the judgment debtor in his
possession, and the same has not been bailed to such
garnishee for a period then unexpired, unless the same
be delivered to the sheriff on demand, he shall levy upon
the same wherever he may ﬁnd it. But if such property
is in the possession of such garnishee upon a bailment
then unexpired, the sheriff shall sell the same, or the in
terest of the judgment debtor therein, according to the
certiﬁcate, as other property.
§ 285. [282.] When a sheriff with an execution levies
upon any of the personal property mentioned in sub
division 3 of section 149 [147], and if the same is not
delivered, paid, or transferred to him at the time, and
the garnishee furnish him the certiﬁcate required in sec
tion 152 [150], he shall proceed thereafter in reference
to such property as provided in section 284 [281]. Such
property may be delivered, paid, or transferred to the
sheriﬁ' at the time of levy, or suﬂicient thereof to satisfy
the execution, and the sheriﬂ"s receipt to the person,
association, or corporation, as the case may be, shall be a
suﬂicient discharge therefor.
§ 286. [283.] When personal property shall be seizedby virtue of any execution, and any person other than
the defendant shall claim such property, or any part
thereof, and shall give notice thereof in writing, the
sheriff may summon from his county six persons, quali
ﬁed as jurors between the parties, to try the validity of
the claim, giving ﬁve days’ notice of the time and place
of the trial to the plaintiff in the execution or his at
torney.
§287. [284.] The sheriff, at the request of either
party, shall subpoena. witnesses, and compel them to at
'tend and give testimony, and he shall administer the
'necessary oaths to the jurors and witnesses. On the
trial the defendant and the claimant may be examined
by the plaintiff as witnesses, and the verdict of such
jury being rendered in writing, and signed by the fore
man, shall be a full indemnity to the sheriff proceeding
in accordance therewith, but shall not preclude the
claimant from maintaining an action at law for the
recovery of the possession of such property, or for dam
ages for taking the same.
§ 288. [285.] The claimant, at any time before the
jury retire, may withdraw his claim, or the plaintiff in
the writ may, within the same time, direct the sheriff to
discharge the property from the execution, and there
upon the trial shall proceed no further. The costs and
disbursements of the trial shall be paid by the party
against whom the verdict is given, or if no verdict be
given, as in this section provided, then by the party who
withdrew his claim, or directed the property to be dis
charged, es the case may be. The sheriff shall collect
allsuch costs and disbursements, if not paid immedi
ately, by levying on the property of the party liable for
them, as on execution, and pay the same to the jurors,
witnesses, and others entitled to receive them.
§ 289. [286.] Notwithstanding the verdict of the jury
be for the claimant, yet the sheriff shall proceed to sell
the property seized in satisfaction of the execution, if
the plaintiff tender to him a. written undertaking, exe
cuted by two or more good and sufficient sureties, resi
dents of the state and householders or freeholders therein,
in double the value of the property, to the effect that
he will indemnify the sheriff against all damages and
costs which he may sustain in consequence of the seizure
and sale of such property, and moreover, that he will pay
to the claimant of such property all damages which he
may sustain in consequence of such seizure and sale. If
such undertaking be given, it shall be returned by the
sheriff with the execution.
§ 290. [287.] ‘When the sheriif shall levy upon per
sonal property by virtue of an execution, he may per
mit the judgment debtor to retain the same, or any part
thereof, in his possession until the day of sale, upon the
defendant executing a written undertaking to the sheriff,
with suﬂicient surety, in double the value of such prop
erty, to the effect that it shall be delivered to the sheriff
at the time and place of sale, and for non-delivery
thereof an action may be maintained upon such under
taking by tho sheriff or the plaintiff in the execution;
but the sheriff shall not thereby be discharged from his
liability to the plaintiff for such property.
§291. [288.] Before the sale of property on execu
tion, notice thereof shall be given as fo1lows:—
1. In case of personal property, by posting written or
printed notice of the time and place of sale in three
public places of the county where the sale is to take
place, not less than ten days successively;
2. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice,
particularly describing the property, for four weeks suc
cessively, in three public places of the county where the
property is to be sold, and publishing a copy thereof
once a week, for the same period, in a newspaper of the
county, if there be one, or if there be none, then in a
newspaper published nearest to the place of sale, or in
the newspaper published by the state printer.
§292. [289.] All sales of property upon execution
shall be made by auction, between nine o'clock in the
morning and four o'clock in the evening. \ After suﬁi
cient property has been sold to satisfy the execution,
-no more shall be sold. Neither the officer holding the
execution- nor his deputy shall become a purchaser, or
be interested in any purchase at such sale. When
the sale is of personal property capable of manual
delivery, and not in the possession of a third person,
association, or corporation, it shall be within view of
those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels
as are likely to bring the highest price, and when
the sale is of real property, and consisting of several
known lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately or
otherwise, as is likely to bring the highest price, or when
a portion of such real property is claimed by a. third per
son, and he requires it to be sold separately, such portion
of it shall be sold separately. Sales of real property
shall be made at the court-house door.
§ 293. [290.] If, at the time appointed for the sale,
the sheriff should be prevented from attending at the
place appointed, or being present should deem it for the
advantage of all concerned to postpone the sale for want
of purchasers, or other sufficient cause, he may postpone
the sale not exceeding one week next after the day ap
pointed, and so from time to time for the like cause,
giving notice of every adjournment by public proclama
tion, made at the same time. The sheriff for like causes
may also adjourn the sale from time to time, not exceed
ing thirty days beyond the day at which the writ is made
returnable, with the consent of the plaintiff indorsed
upon the writ.
§294. [291.] When the purchaser of any personal
property capable of manual delivery, and not in the
possession of a third person, association, or corporation,
shall pay the purchase-money, the sheriff shall deliver to
him the property, and if desired shall give him a bill of
sale containing an acknowledgment of the payment. In
all other sales of personal property, the sheriff shall give
the purchaser a bill of sale with the like acknowledgment.
§ 295. [292.] Whenever after the entry of judgment
a period of ﬁve years shall elapse without an execution
being issued on such judgment, thereafter an execution
shall not issue except as in this section provided.
1. The party in whose favor a judgment is given shall
ﬁle a motion with the clerk of the court where the judg
ment is entered for leave to issue an execution. The
motion shall state the names of the parties to the judg
ment, the date of its entry, and the amount claimed to
be due thereon, or the particular property of which the
possession was thereby adjudged to such party remaining
undelivered. The motion shall be subscribed and veri
ﬁed in like manner as a complaint in an action at law.
2. At any time after ﬁling such motion the party may
cause a summons to be served on the judgment debtor
in like manner and with like eﬂ‘ect as in an action at
law. In case such judgment debtor be dead, the sum
mons may be served upon his representatives by publi
cation, as in case of a non-resident, or by actual service of
the summons.
3. The summons shall be substantially the same as in
an action at law, but instead of the notice therein re
quired, it shall state the amount claimed or the property
sought to be recovered, in the manner prescribed in sub
division 1 of this section.
4. The judgment debtor, or in case of his death his
representatives, may ﬁle an answer to such motion within
the time allowed to answer a complaint in an action at
law, alleging any defense to such motion which may
exist. If no answer be ﬁled within the time prescribed,
the motion shall be allowed of course. The moving
party may demur or reply to the answer. The party
opposed to the motion may demur to the same or to the
reply. The pleadings shall be subscribed and veriﬁed,
and the proceedings conducted as in an action at law.
5. The word “representatives” in this section shall be
deemed to include any or all of the persons mentioned
in subdivision 2 of section 276 [273] in whose posses
sion property of the judgment debtors may be, which is
liable to be taken and sold or delivered in satisfaction of
the execution, and not otherwise.
6. The order shall specify the amount for which exe
cution is to issue, or the particular; property possession
of which is to be delivered; it shall be entered in the
journal and docketed as a judgment, and a roll thereafter
prepared and ﬁled, or a ﬁnal record mode of the proceed
ings, as the case may be, in the same manner as a judg
ment.
§ 296. [293.] Whenever real property is sold on exe-
cution, the provisions of this section shall apply to the
subsequent proceedings.
1. The plaintiff in the writ of execution shall be en
titled, on motion therefor, to have an order conﬁrming the
sale, at the term next following the return of the execu
tion, or if it be returned in term time, then at such term,
unless the judgment debtor, or in case of his death, his
representative, shall ﬁle with the clerk ten days before
such term, or if the writ be returned in term time, then
ﬁve days after the return thereof, his objections thereto.
2. If such objections be ﬁled, the court shall, notwith
standing, allow the order conﬁrming the sale, u:
the hearing of the motion it shall satisfactorily
that there were substantial irregularities in the 1
ings concerning the sale, to the probable loss 01
of the party objecting. In the latter case, the cor
disallow the motion, and direct that the properi
sold, in whole or in part, as the case may be, as 1
execution received of that date.
3. Upon the return of the execution, the sher
pay the proceeds of the sale to the clerk, who sh
apply the same, or so much thereof as may be ne
in satisfaction of the judgment. If an order of 1
afterwards made, and the property sell for a
amount to any person, other than the former pu
the clerk shall ﬁrst repay to such purchaser the
of his bid, out of the proceeds of the latter sale.
4. Upon a resale, the bid of the purchaser at th
sale shall be deemed to be renewed and con1
force, and no bid shall be taken except for a
amount. If the motion to conﬁrm be not heard
cided at the term at which it is made, it may
tinned and heard and determined before the jud,‘
any term thereafter. An order cohﬁrming a s:
be a conclusive determination of the regularit;
proceedings concerning. such sale, as to all per
any other action, suit, or proceeding whatever.
5. If after the satisfaction of the judgment t
any proceeds of the sale remaining, the clerk sl
such proceeds to the judgment debtor, or his rep
tive, as the case may be, at any time before the
made, upon the motion to conﬁrm the sale, I
such party ﬁle with the clerk a waiver of all ot
made or to be made to the proceedings coneerr
sale; but if the sale be conﬁrmed, such procee
be paid to such party of course, otherwise they 1
main in the custody of the clerk until the sail
property has been disposed of.
§297. [294.] If the purchaser of real property sold
on execution, or his successor in interest, be evicted
therefrom in consequence of the reversal of the judgment,
he may recover the price paid, with interest and the costs
and disbursements of the suit by which he was evicted,
from the plaintiff in the writ of execution.
§298. [295.] When property liable to an execution
against several persons is sold thereon, and more than a
due proportion of the judgment is levied upon the prop
erty of one of them, or one of them pays without a sale,
more than his proportion, he may compel contributions
from the others; and when a judgment is against several,
and is upon an obligation or contract of one of them as
security for another, and the surety pays the amount, or
any part thereof, either by sale of his property or before
sale, he may compel repayment from the principal. In
such cases, the person so paying or contributing shall
be entitled to the beneﬁt of the judgment to enforce con
tribution or repayment, if within thirty days after his
payment he ﬁle with the clerk of the court where the
judgment was rendered notice of his payment and claim
to contribution or repayment; upon ﬁling such notice,
the clerk shall make an entry thereof in the margin of
the docket where the judgment is entered.

§298. Upon a sale of real property, when the
estate is less than a leasehold of two years unexpired term,
the sale shall be absolute. In all other cases such prop
erty shall be subject to redemption, as hereinafter pro
vided in this title. At the time of sale the sheriff shall
give to the purchaser a certiﬁcate of the sale containing,
1. A particular description of the property sold;
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel; .
3. The whole price paid;
4. When subject to redemption, it shall be so stated.
The matters contained in such certiﬁcate shall be sub
stantially stated in the sheriff ’s return of his proceedings
upon the writ.
§ 300. [297 .] Property sold subject to redemption,
as provided in the last section, or any part thereof sep
arately sold, may be redeemed by the following persons
or their successors in interest:—
1. The judgment debtor or his successor in interest
in the whole or any part of the property separately sold;
2. A creditor having a lien by judgment, decree, or
mortgage on any portion of the property, or'any portion
of any part thereof, separately sold, subsequent in time
to that on which the property was sold.
The persons mentioned ip subdivision 2 of this sec
tion, after having redeemed the property, are to be
termed redemptioners.

§ 301. [298.] A lien creditor may redeerr-1 the prop
erty within sixty days from the date of the order con
. -
ﬁrmmg the sale, by paying the amount of the purchase
money, with interest at the rate of ten per centum per
annum thereon from the time of sale, together with the
amount of any taxes which the purchaser may have paid
thereon, and if the purchaser be also a creditor having
a lien prior to that of the rodemptioner, the amount of
such lien, with interest.
When lien creditor may re
1 §302. [299.] If the property be so redeemed, an
other lien creditor may, within sixty days from the las
redemption, again redeem it, on paying the sum paid on
the last redemption, with interest at the rate of‘ ten per
centum per aunum thereon from the date of the last pre_
ceding redemption in addition, together with any taxes
which the last redemptioner may have paid thereon, and,
unless his lien be prior to that of such redemptioner, the
amount of such lien, with interest. The property may
be again, and as often as any lien creditor or redemp
tioner is disposed, redeemed from the last previous re
demptioner, within sixty days from the date of the last
redemption, on paying the sum paid on the last previous
redemption, with interest at the rate of ten per centum
per annum thereon from the date of such previous re
demption, together with the amount of any taxes paid
thereon by such last redemptioner, and the amount of
any liens held by such last redemptioner prior to his
own, with interest.
§ 303. [300.] The judgment debtor, or his successor
in interest, may redeem the property at any time priorto the conﬁrmation of sale, on paying the amount of the
purchase-money, with interest at the rate of ten per
centum per annum thereon from the date of sale, together
with the amount of any taxes which the purchaser may
have paid thereon after the purchase. But if the judg
ment debtor do not redeem until after the conﬁrmation
of the sale, thereafter he shall redeem within four months
from such order of conﬁrmation, and not otherwise.
§304. [301.] If redemption be made as prescribed
in this act, or when redemption is made and a period of
24
sixty days shall have elapsed without any other redemp
tion, the purchaser or the redemptioner, as the case may
be, shall be entitled to a conveyance from the sheriff.
If the judgment debtor redeem at any time before the
time for redemption expires, the effect of the sale shall
terminate and he shall be restored to his estate.
§ 305. [302.] The mode of redeeming shall be as
Wprovided in this section.
1. The person seeking to redeem shall give the pur
chaser or redemptioner, as the case may be, two days’
notice of his intention to apply to the sheriff for that
purpose. At the time and place speciﬁed in such notice,
such person may redeem by paying to the sheriff the sum
required. The sheriff shall give the person redeeming a
certiﬁcate, as in case of sale on execution, adding therein
the sum paid on redemption, from whom redeemed, and
the date thereof. A party seeking to redeem shall sub
mit to the sheriff the evidence of his right thereto, as
follows:<
1. Proof that the notice required by this section has
been given to the purchaser or redemptioner or waived.
2. If he be a lien creditor, a copy of the docket of the
judgment, or decree under which he claims the right to
redeem, certiﬁed by the clerk of the court where such
judgment or decree is docketed, or if he seek to redeem
upon a mortgage, the certiﬁcate of the record thereof.
3. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his
claim, veriﬁed by the aﬁidavit of himself or agent; an
aﬂidavit by himself or agent showing the amount then
actually due on the judgment, decree, or mortgage.
4. If the redemptioner or purchaser have a lien prior
to that of the lien creditor seeking to redeem, such re
demptioner or purchaser shall submit to the sheriff the
like evidence thereof and of the amount due thereon, or
the same may be disregarded.
When two or more persons apply to the sheriff to
redeem at the same time, he shall allow the person hav
ing the prior lien to redeem ﬁrst, and so on. The sheriff
shall immediately pay the money over to the person from
whom the property is redeemed, if he attend at the re
demption, or if not, at any time thereafter when de
manded. Where a sheriff shall wrongfully refuse to allow
any person to redeem, his right thereto shall not be pre-judiced thereby, and upon the submission of the evi-
dence and the tender of the money to the sheriff as
herein provided, he may be required by order of the
court or judge thereof to allow such redemption.
§ 306. [303.] Until the expiration of the time allowed
for redemption, the court or judge thereof may restrain
the commission of waste on the property by order granted
with or without notice, on the application of the pur
chaser or judgment creditor; but it shall not be deemed
waste for the person in possession of the property at the
time of sale, or entitled to possession afterwards, during
the period allowed for redemption to continue to use it
in the same manner in which it was previously used; or
to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry; or to make
the necessary repairs to buildings thereon; or to use
wood or timber on the property therefor; or for the re
pair of fences; or for fuel in his family while he occupies
the property.
§ 307. [304.] The purchaser from the day of sale
until a. resale or a redemption, and a redemptioner from
the day of his redemption until another redemption,
shall be entitled to the possession of the property pur
chased or redeemed, unless the same be in the possession
of a tenant holding under an unexpired lease, and in
such case, shall be entitled to receive from such tenant
the rents or the value of the use and occupation thereof
during the same period.
§ 308. [305.] After the issuing of an execution agamst
property, and upon proof by the afﬁdavit of the plaintiff
in the writ, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court
or judge thereof, that the judgment debtor has property
liable to execution, which he refuses to apply towards the
satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may, by
an order, require the judgment debtor to appear and
answer under oath concerning the same, before such
court or judge, or before a referee appointed by such
court or judge, at a time and place speciﬁed in the order.
§309. [306.] On the appearance of the judgment
debtor, he may be examined on oath concerning his
property. His examination, if required by the plaintiff
in the writ, shall be reduced to writing, and ﬁled with
the clerk by whom the execution was issued. Either
party may_examine witnesses in his behalf, and if by
such examination it appear that the judgment debtor
has any property liable to execution, the court or judge
before whom the proceeding takes place, or to whom the
report of the referee is made, shall make an order re
quiring the judgment debtor to apply the same in satis
faction of the judgment, or that such property be levied
on, by execution, in the manner and with the effect as
provided in title I. of this chapter, or both, as may
seem most likely to affect the object of the proceeding.

§ 310. [307.] ‘At the time of allowing the order pre
scribed in section 308 [305], or at any time thereafter
pending the proceeding,
an order restraining the judgment debtor from selling,
transferring, or in any manner disposing of any of his
property liable to execution, pending the proceeding.
Disobedience to any order or requirement authorized by
sections 308 [305], 309 [306], and 310 [307], on the part
of the judgment debtor, may be punished as for a con
tempt.
§ 311. [308.] Instead of the order requiring the at
tendance of the judgment debtor, as provided in the last
two sections, the court or judge may, upon proof by
-aﬂidavit of a party, or otherwise to his satisfaction, that
there is danger of the debtor leaving the state, or con
cealing himself therein, and that there is reason to believe
he has property which he unjustly refuses to apply to
such judgment, issue a warrant requiring the sheriﬁ‘ of
any county where such debtor may be to arrest him and
bring him before the court or judge; upon being brought
before the court or judge, he may be examined on oath,
._ . .
and it it then appear that there is danger of the debtor
leaving the state, and that he has property which he has
unjustly refused to apply to such judgment, he may be
ordcrotl to enter into an t1ndcrtul<ing, with one or more
surctics, that he will from time to time attend before the
court or jtttlgc, as may be directed, and that he will not,
during the pcudcm-y of the proceedings, dispose of any
portion of his property not exempt from cxccution. In
dcfuttlt of entering into such undertaking, he may be
cotntnittcd to the jail of the county by warrant Of the
_jLIt,lQL‘.
§312. [fltlit] \Vhcncvcr the sheriff, with an execu
tion against the property of the judgment debtor, shall
apply to any person or oiiiccr mcntiohed in subdivision
3 of section 119 [1-17], for the purpose of levying on any
property thcrcin mentioned, such person or otiher shall
fortliwith give to the slicriif a certificate in the manner
p1'cstirt'il,>ctl in section 152 [150]. If such person or oﬁicer
refuse to do so, or if the certiﬁcate be unsatisfttctory to
the plaintitf in the writ, he nmy in like manner have
the order 1)i‘(‘$('l‘ll)0<l in such section against such person
or oiliccr. Tin;-t'caftct' the proceeding upon such order
shall be t-ondut-ted in the manner prescribed in title
XIV. of chapter 1., from section 162 [160] to section 171
[1435]], inclusi\'c.
3 3. [.‘31tt.] The earnings of a judgment debtor for
])0I‘!%Tt‘>I'1‘.tl st-twiccs, at any time within thirty days next
preceding the judgmcitt ttgaittst a Q'tl1‘lllSll(‘6, shall not be
‘ ‘ "
inchtdcd in sttch judgment, when it shall be made to
appcttr by the atlidavit of the judgment debtor, or other
wise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of a
family supported wholly or partly by his labor.
9‘ 31-1. [$11.] No state or county treasurer, sheriff,
ch-rl<, const-.tblc, or other public oﬁiccr shall be liable to
U11>IWt‘l‘ tti-‘ gttrnishcc for moneys in his possession as
sut-lt pttblic oilicc1‘,bclongit1g to or claimed by any judg
ment debtor.
§ 315. [3] 2.] The mode of proceeding in the actions
provided for in this chapter, from the commencement to
the determination thereof, and thereafter until satisfac
tion of the judgment be had, shall be according to the
general provisions of this code upon the subject of
actions at law, except as herein or otherwise specially
provided.
§316. [£313.] Any person who has a legal estate in
real property, and a present right to the possession
thereof, may recover such possession, with (lainages for
witlilioliliiig the same, by an action at law.
Suchaction
shall be coninicnccd against the person in the actual
possession of the property at the time, or if the property
be not in the actual possession of any one, then against
the person 1l(3tlll§§ as the owner thereof.
§317. [314.] A defendant who is in actual possession
may, for answer, plead that he is in possession only
as tenant of another, naming him and his place of res1dence,
and thereupon the landlord, if he apply therefor,
shall be made defendant in place of the tenant, and the
action shall proceed in all respects as if originally com
menced against him. If the landlord do not apply to be
made defendant within the day, the tenant is allowed to
answer; thereafter he shall not be allowed to, but he shall
be made defendant if the plaintiff require it. If the
landlord be made defendant on motion of the plaintiff,
he shall be required to appear and answer within ten
days from notice of the pendency of the action and the
order making him defendant, or such further notice as
the court or judge thereof may prescribe.
§ 318. [315.] The plaintiff in his complaint shall set
forth the nature of his estate in the property, whether it
be in fee, for life, or for a term of years, and for whose
life, or the duration of such term, and that he is entitled
to the possession thereof, and that the defendant wrong
fully withholds the same from him to his damage such
sum as may be therein claimed. The property shall be
‘described with such certainty as to enable the possession
thereof to be delivered if a recovery be had.
.
§ 319. [£116.] The defendant shall not be allowed to
give in e\'itle11ce any estate in hi1nsclf, or another in the
Iii-opt-1't_\', or any license or riglit. to the possession thereof,
unless the same be 1)lC‘tl(l(Nl in his answer. If so pleaded,
the nature and duration of such estate, or license or
riglit. to the possessioii, shall be set forth with the cer
tainty and }‘a1'tie11la1‘ity required in a complaint. If
the dt-f<~111la1it does not defend for the whole of the prop
e1't_\', he shall slieeify for what particular part he does
1lct'e1nl. In an action a;;ainst a tenant the judgment
sh.-ill to (‘(i]‘ﬂ3lllSl\'O 11g-.ii11st a landlord who has been
lllzlile <lel'e11tla1'it in place of the tenant, to the same
extent as if the action had been originally commenced
tlgziiiist him.
§ 320. [£317.] The jury by their Verdict shall ﬁnd as
follo\\'.<:»——
1. If the verdict be for the plaintiff, that he is entitled
to the possession of ‘the property described in the complaint,
or some part thereof,
or some undivided share or
interest in either, and the nature and duration of his
estate in such property, part thereof, or undivided share
or interest in either, as the case may be.
2. If the verdict be for the defendant, that the plaintiff
is not entitled to the possession of the property described
in the complaint, or to such part thereof as the defend
ant defends for, and the estate in such property or part
thereof, or license or right to the possession of either,
established on the trial by the defendant, if any; in
effect as the same is required to be pleaded.
§ 321. [318.] The plaintiff shall only be entitled to
recover damages for withholding the property for the
term of six years next preceding the commencement of
the action, and for any period that may elapse from suc
commencement to the time of giving a verdict therein,
exclusive of the use of permanent improvements made
by the defendant. When
permanent improvements
have been made upon the property by the defendant, or
those under whom he claims, holding under color of title
adversely to the claim of plaintiff, in good faith, the value
thereof at the time of trial shall be allowed as a set-off
against such damages.
h
§ 322. [319.] If the right of the plaintiff to the posses
sion of the property expire after the commencement of
the action, and before the trial, the verdict shall be given
according to the fact, and judgment shall be given only
for the damages.
§ 323. [320.] The court or judge thereof, on motion,
and after notice to the adverse party, may, for cause
shown, grant an order allowing the party applying
therefor to enter upon the property in controversy, and
make survey and admeusurement~ thereof, for the pur-
poses of the action.
§ 324. [321.] The order shall describe the property,
and a copy thereof shall be served upon the defend
ant, and thereupon the party may enter upon the prop
erty, and make such survey and admeasurement, but if
any unnecessary injury he done to the premises, he shall
be liable therefor.
§ 325. [322.] An action for the recovery of the posses
sion of real property against a person in possession can
not be prcjudiced by any alienation made by such person,
either before or after the commencement of the action;
but if such alienation be made after the commencement
of the action, and the defendant do not satisfy the judgment
recovered for damages, for withholding the posses
sion, such damages may be recovered by action against
the purchaser.
§ 326. [323.] A mortgage of real property shall not
be deemed a conveyance so as to enable the owner of
the mortgage to recover possession of the real property
- ,
without a foreclosure and sale according to law.
§ 327. [324.] In an action for the recovery of dower
before admeasurement, or by a tenant in common of real
property against a co-tenant, the plaintiﬁ' shall show in
addition to the evidence of his right of possession, that
the defendant either denied the plaintiﬁ"s right, or did
some act amounting to such denial.
§ 328. [325.] When in case of a lease of real property,
and the failure of tenant to pay rent, the landlord has a
subsisting right to re-enter for such failure, he may bring i
an action to recover the possession of such property, and
such action is equivalent to a. demand of the rent, and a
re-entry upon the property. But if, at any time before
judgment in such action, the lessee or his successor in
interest, as to the whole or a part of the property, pay to
the plaintiff, or bring into court the amount of rent then
in arrear, with interest, and the costs of the action, and -
perform the other covenants or agreements on the part
of the lessee, he shall be entitled to continue in the pos
session according to the terms of the lease.
§ 329. [326.] In an action to recover the possession of
real property, the judgment therein shall be Conclusive
as to the estate in such property and the right to the
possession thereof, so far as the same is thereby deter
mined, upon the party against whom the same is given,
and against all persons claiming from, through, or under
such party, after the commencement of such action, except
as in this section provided. When service of the
summons is made by publication and judgment is given
for want of answer, at any time within two years from
the entry thereof, the defendant or his successor in in
terest, as to the whole or any part of the property, shall,
upon application to the court or judge thereof, be enti
tled to an order vacating the judgment and granting him
a new trial upon the payment of the costs of the action.
§ 330. [327.] If the plaintiff has taken possession of
, the property before the judgment is set aside and a new
. . .
trial granted, as provided 111 section 329 [326], such pos
session shall not be thereby affected in any way, and if
judgment be given for the defendant in the new trial, he
shall be entitled to restitution by execution in the same
manner as if he were plaintiff.
§ 331. [£328.] In an action to recover the possession
of real property by a tenant in dower, or his successor
in interest, if such estate in dower has not been admeas
ured before the commencement of the action, the plaintiff
shall not have execution to deliver the possession thereof
until the same be admeasured, as follows:—
1. At any time after the entry of judgment in favor of
the plaintiff, he may, upon notice to the adverse party,
move the court for the appointment of referees to
admea-sure the dower out of the real property, of which
the possession is recovered by the action. The court
shall allow such motion, unless it appear probable on the
hearing that a partition of such property cannot be
made without prejudice to the interests of the other
owners. In the latter case the court shall disallow the
motion, and thereafter the plaintiff shall only proceed
for partition or sale of such real property as provided in
title V. of chapter V.;
2. If the court allow the motion, thereafter the pro
ceedings shall be conducted as provided in such title.
At any time after the conﬁrmation of the report of the
referees, the plaintiff may have execution for the de
livery of the possession of the property according to the
admeasurement thereof, and for the damages recovered,
if any, for withholding the same, if such damages remain
unsatisﬁed;
3. If the motion for admeasurement be made at the
term at which judgment was given, the notice thereof
shall be served on the adverse party at such time as the
court by general rule or special order may prescribe.
§ 332. [329.] In an action at law for the recovery of
the possession of real property, if either party claim the
property as donee of the United States under the act of
Congress approved September 27, 1850, commonly called
the donation law, or the acts amendatory thereof, such
party from the date of his settlement thereon, as pro
vided in said acts, shall be deemed to have a legal estate
in fee in such property, to continue upon condition that
he perform the conditions required by such acts, which
estate is unconditional and indefensible after the per
formance of such conditions. In such action, if both
plaintiff and defendant claim title to the same real prop
erty by virtue of settlement under such acts, such settle
ment and the performance of the subsequent conditions
shall be conclusively presumed in favor of the party hav
ing or claiming under the_ elder patent certiﬁcate or
patent, as the case may be, unless it appear upon the
face of such certiﬁcate or patent that the same is abso
lutely void.
25
§ 333. [330.] Any person whose property is affected
by a private nuisance, or whose personal enjoyment
thereof is in like manner thereby affected, may maintain
. -
an action at law for damages therefor. If judgment be
given for the plaintiff in such action, he may, in addition
.to the execution to enforce the same, on motion, have an
order allowing a warrant to issue to the sheriff to abate
such nuisance. Such motion must be made at the term
at which judgment is given, and shall be allowed of
course, unless it appear on the hearing that the nuisance
has ceased, or that such remedy is inadequate to abate or
prevent the continuance of the nuisance, in which latter
case the plaintiff may proceed in equity to have the de
fendant enjoined.
§ 334. [331.] If the order be made, the clerk shall
thereafter, at any time within six months, when requested
by the plaintiff, issue such warrant directed to the sher
iff, requiring him forthwith to abate the nuisance at the
‘expense of the defendant, and return the warrant as soon
thereafter as may be, with his proceedings ‘indorsed
thereon. The expense of abating the nuisance may be
levied by the sheriff on the property of the defendant,
and in this respect the warrant is to be deemed an exe
cution tiguiiist property
§ 335. [RS'Z.] At any time heforc the order is made,
or the \\'.‘11‘I‘ttl1t issues, the det'endunt nmy, on motion to
the court or jt1<,l;j_;e thereof, lmve an order to stay the issue
of stieh \\':trrzmt, for .sueh period as nmy he 111.-1-essary,
not ext-ecdin}_: six months, and to allow the defendant to
tthute the iittismiee himself‘, upon his giving an under
ttll\'iH_‘-_'_' to the pluintitt' in it suﬂicient amount, with one or
111(i1‘U st1i‘etie>‘, to the .<iiti.<t'uctioii of the court or judge
thereot', that he will nhatc it within the time and in the
manner spet-itied in sncli order.
§I;2-H3. [.‘}I}I3. It‘ the pl:1intit'F is not notiﬁed of the
time and place of the zippliczitioii for the order provided
. .
it)!‘ 111 .\'t.'t‘il()l1
.>.)._> [$32], the. sureties therein provided
for shell jt1.<tit'§' as huil upon arrest, otherwise such jus
titic-tttion 111:1)’ he omitted, unless the phiintitf require it.
ﬁnk
It‘ >'11('l1 order he made and undert:.d<in_; given, and the
deteiidzmt thils to uhutc sucli nuiszmee within the time
speeitied in suhl order, tliere;1t'te1",at ally time within six
liioiitlis, the \\'Zti'1'ttllt for the t1l>tti~0X11(‘l1'L of the nuisance
111:1)’ isstie us it‘ the sui‘|'ie had not heen stayed.
Justification of sureties; St-e [IN/P, §§ 117 [115] ct seq.
$337. [$131.] It‘ :1 }_"l1t1Wli:tll,lt‘l1t1]1t in severalty or in
t-ommon tor lit'e or for _\'e;11'.-‘, of re:d property, commit
\\';t.-'t.e tliert-en, tiny persoii injured tliereh_\f nluy main
tztiii ttlt tl(‘tlHll at law for tl;llll;,lf_"t“S illOI'L"i‘O1', agui11st such
glltl1'tll;llt o1'teii;tiit: in Which £l(JtitH1 there 111t1_Y he judg
ment "tor trehl-- tl;ii1'1;if_H.\.<. t‘o1't'eitui'e of the estate of the
pzirty (“tHl1llliltitlj_' or permittin_; the waste, t1l1(l of evic
tion l‘i'oi1i the pi-opert_\'. ‘mt jutlgment ot‘fo1‘t'“('iture and
t'\'it'iltti1 r'llt1llt)'l1l}'ltt,* ;;'i\'<-11 in t';t\'or of the person en
titled in the re\'er.-ion. :t_Qf.‘l.ill.~ii the tenant in possession,
\\'hen the iil_iUl'_\' t» the est.~it'- in re\'er.<io1i is deterinined
iii the action to he tgrltlitl to the \';1lue of the tenant’s
(‘>i:,lit' or uneXpirc<-l term, or to have heen done or suffered
in m;1li<;-e.
§338. [335.] Whenever any‘person shall cut down,
girdle, or otherwise injure, or carry off, any tree, timber, or
shrub on the land of another person, or on the street or
highway in front of any person's house, village, town
or city lot, or cultivated grounds, or on the commons
or public grounds of any village, town, or city, or on
the street or highway in front thereof, without lawful
authority, in an action by such person, village, town,
or city, against the person committing such trespasses,
or any of them, if judgment be given for the plaintiff,
it shall be given for treble the amount of damages
claimed, or assessed therefor, as the case may be.
§ 339. [336.]. If upon the trial of such action, it
shall appear that the trespass was casual or involuntary,
or that the defendant had probable cause to believe that
the land on which such trespass was committed was his
own, or that of the person in whose service or by whose
direction the act was done, or that such tree or timber was
taken from uninclosed woodland, for the purpose of repair
ing any public highway or bridge upon the land or adjoin
ing it, judgment shall only be given for single damages.
§ 340. [£337.] The oﬁieiul uiidertziking or other secu
rity of :1 puhlie ()ilit‘(‘1' to the state, or to any county, city,
town, or otlu-1' 1uunicipnl or puhlie corperntioii of like
elizlructer therein, shall he (leemed tLS(‘(f1lI‘it_\,' to the state,
or to such (-ount_v, (~it)', town, or other municipal or
public ce1'pe1'u.tiou as the case 111:i_\' he, and 11150, to all
pt-r<o1is >‘t‘\'t'*I‘;lih\' for the ollieizil ilelinqueneies, ugainst
Which it is iMen<le<l to p1‘0\'i(.le.
§ 31. [338.] \Vheu :1 public oflieer by ofliciul mis
conduct, or neglect of duty shall forfeit his oﬁiciul under
taking or other security, or ren<ler his sureties therein
liuhle upon such uu¢lei't:iki11g or other security, any
In-1‘s<,>11 iujur<-<l by sucli miseou<_luet or neglect, or who is
l»_\' huv cutith-(1 to the beneﬁt of the security, may main
tain an tl('ll()1l at lam thereon in his own name, against
the ellh-er and his sureties, to rec-'o\'cr the amount to
\\'lii<j-li he nmy hy I‘OttSOll thereof be entitled.

§ 340 [Sf‘,¥t.] B<'-thre an action can be cormneneed by
:1 plziiutil1'uther than the stut.e, or the niuliieipnl or pub
lie eorperutitiu mum‘-il in the ilmlcrtnkiilg or other secu
rity, leave slmll he ()l)i11l1l(‘d of the court or judge thereof
\\'l'i(~.1'e the zlvllnll is triuhle. Such leave shall he granted
upon the prwluti-tiou of 11. certified copy of the un¢.ler!aking
or other .sc<:1,1rit‘}', uml an utlhluvit, of the pluintifi‘or some
person on his l->ehu.ll' sliowing the delinquency. But if
the matters set forth in the affidavit be such that, if true,
the party applying would clearly not be entitled to recover
in the action, the leave shall not be granted. If 'it does
not appear from the complaint that the leave herein
provided for has been granted, the defendant on motion
shall be entitled to judgment of nonsuit; if it does, thedefendant may controvert the allegation, and if the issue
be found in his favor, judgment shall be given acc0rd-
ingly.

§ 343. [340.] A judgment in favor of a party for one
delinquency shall not preclude the same or another party
from maintaining ‘another action on the same under-
_. . .
takmg, or other security for another dehnquency.
See § 2229, Miscellaneous Laws.
§ 344. [341.] In an action upon an official undertaking
or other security, if judgments have already been
recovered against the surety therein, other than by
confession, equal in the aggregate to the penalty or anypart thereof of such undertaking or other security, andif such recovery be established on the trial, judgment
shall not be given against such surety for an amount
exceeding such penalty, or such portion thereof, as is
not already recovered against him.
§ 345. [342.] Fines and forfeitures may be recovered
by an action at law in the name of the oﬁicer or person
proportion to the offense.
. .
to whom they are by law given, or in the name of the
oﬁicer or person who by law is authorized to prosecute
for them.
§ 346. [343.] When an action shall be commenced
for a penalty, which by law is not to exceed a certain
.
amount, the action may be commenced for that amount,
and if judgment be given for the plaintiff, it may be for
such amount or less, in the discretion of the court, in
§ 347. [344.] A recovery of a. judgment for a penalty
or forfeiture by collusion between the plaintiff and de
fondant, with intent to save the defendant, wholly or
partially, from the consequences contemplated by law,
in case where the penalty or forfeiture is given wholly
or partly to the person who prosecutes, shall not bar the
recovery of the same by another person.
§ 348. [345.] Fines and forfeitures not specially
granted or otherwise appropriated by law, when recov
_ .
cred, shall be paid into the treasury of the proper county.
. .
Whenever, by the provisions of law, any property, real
or personal, shall be forfeited to the state, or to any offi
cer for its use, the action for the recovery of such prop
erty may be commenced in any county where the
defendant may be found, or where such property may be.
§349. [346.] An action at law may be maintained
by any county, incorporated town, school district, or
. . . . - -
other pubhc corporation of like character 1n this state in
its corporate name, and upon a cause of action accruing
to it in its corporate character, and not otherwise, in
either of the following cases:—
1. Upon a contract made with such public corpora
tion;
2. Upon a liability prescribed by law in favor of such
public corporation;
3. To recover a penalty or forfeiture given to such
public corporation;
4. To recover damages for an injury to the corporate
rights or property of such public corporation.
§350. [347.] An action may be maintained against
any of the organized counties of this state upon a con-
tract made by such county in its corporate character,
and within the scope of its authority, and not otherwise.
And an action may be maintained against any of the
other public corporations in this state mentioned in sec
tion 349 [346], in its corporate character, and within the
scope of its authority, or for an injury to the rights of
the plaintiff arising from some act or omission of such
other public corporation.
§ 351. [348.] In such actions the pleadings of the
public corporation shall be veriﬁed by.any of the ofﬁcers
representing it in its corporate capacity, in the_same
manner as if such oﬁicer were a defendant in the action,
or by the agent or attorney thereof, as in ordinary actions.
§ 352. [349.] If judgment be given for the recovery
of money or damages against a county or other public
corporation, mentioned or described in section 349 [346],
no execution shall issue thereon for the collection of such
_money or damages, but such judgment in such respect
shall be satisﬁed as follows:—
1. The party in whose favor such judgment is given
may, at any time thereafter, when an execution might
issue on a like judgment against a private person, present
a certiﬁed transcript of the docket thereof, to the officer
of such county or other public corporation who is au
thorized to draw orders on the treasurer thereof. '
2. On the presentation of such transcript, such oﬂicer
shall draw an order on such treasurer for the amount of
the judgment, in favor of the party for whom the same
was given. Thereafter, such order shall be presented for
payment, and paid, with like effect and in like manner
as other orders upon the treasurer of such county or. other
public corporation.
3. The certiﬁed transcript herein provided for shall
not he t'urnishcd by the clerk, unless at the time an exe
cution 1night issue on such judgment if the same were
against a private person, nor until satisfaction of the
_iud;-_'inent in respect to such money or damages be ac
kno\vledged as in ordinary cases. The clerk shall include
in the transcript a inelnoranduin of such acknowledg
ment ot' satisl'action and the entry thereof. Unless the
transcript contain such ineinoranduni, no order upon the
treasurer shall issue thereon.
§335Z3. [IL'>H.] .\n action at law may be maintained
by and against any puldic. otlicer in this state in his oth
cial character, when, as to such cause of action, such
ollicer does not represent any of the pul;>lic corporations
1n<-ntioned or ¢,les'e1'il)ed in section 3~l‘J [£346], for any of
the causes speeitied in such section and section l—l9[147].
It jud;_§1nent he given against any such otlicer in such
action, it may he ent'orced agraiiist him personally, and
the amount thereof shall be allowed to llllll in his official
accounts.
§ 354. [351.] The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo
- - . ,
warrzmto, and proceedings by information in the nature
of qua warranto are abolished, and the remedies hercto-
_ _
fore obtamable under those forms may be obtained by
action at law in the mode prescribed in this title.
§ 355. [352.] An action at law may be maintained
in the name of the state, whenever the governor thereof
' . . . . .
shall so direct, against a corporation either public or
- . - .
private, for the purpose of avoiding the act of mcorpora-
tion, or the act renewing or modifying its corporate existence,
on the ground that such act or either of them
was procured upon some fraudulent suggestion or con
cealment of a material fact by the persons incorporated,
or some of them, or with their knowledge and consent;
or for annulling the existence of such corporation, when
the same has-been formed under any general law of this
state therefor, on the ground that such incorporation,
or any renewal or modiﬁcation thereof, was procured in
like manner.
§ 356. [353.] An action at law may be maintained
in the name of the state against a corporation, other
than a public one, on leave granted by the court or judge
thereof where the action is triable, for the purpose of
avoiding the charter or annulling the existence of such
corporation, whenever it shall,
1. Offend against any of the provisions of the acts, or
either of them, creating, renewing, or modifying such
corporation, or the provisions of any general law under
which it became incorporated; or,
2. Violate the provisions of any law, by which such cor
poration forfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers; or,
3. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges or fran
chises, by failure to exercise its powers; or,
4. Whenever it has done or omitted any act whichamounts to a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges,
and franchises; or,
5. Whenever it exercises a franchise or privilege not
conferred upon it by law.
§357. [354.] An action at law may be maintained
in the name of the state, upon the information of the
prosecuting attorney, or upon the relation of a private
party against the person offending, in the following
cases:— '
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or un
lawfully hold, or exercise any public oﬂice, civil or mili
tary, or any franchise within this state, or any office in
a corporation either public or private, created or formed
by or under the authority of this state; or,
2. When any public oﬁicer, civil or military, has done
or suffered an act which, by the provisions of law, makes
a forfeiture of his oﬂice; or,
3. When any association or number of persons act
within this state, as a corporation, without being duly
incorporated.
§2358. [£355. An action at law may be maintained
in the name of the state for the purpose of vacating or
annulling letters patent issued by the state against the
person to whom the same were issued, or those claiming
under him, as to the subject-matter thereof, in the fol
lowing eascs:—— '
1. \\'hen such letters patent were issued by means of
some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material
fact by the person to whom the same were issued, or with
his knowledge and consent; or,
‘.2. \\'hen such letters patent were issued through mis
take or in ignorance of a material fact; or,
:1. When the patentee or those claiming under him
have done or omittt-<,l an act in violation of the terms
and conditions on which the letters patent were issued,
or have by any other means forfeited the interest ac
quired under the same.
§ 23.3%). [£356.] The aetions provided for in this title
shall be eomnieneed and prosecuted by the prosecuting
a.ttorney of the <listri<V_-t where the same are triable.
Wln.-n the aetion is upon the relation of a private party,
as allowed in section 357 [35-,1], the pleadings on behalf
of the state shall be veriﬁed by such relator as if he were
the plaintitl in the action, or otherwise as provided in
St'('ll()Il 8"’) [W]; in all other cases such pleadings shall
be verilied by the prosecuting attorney in like manner,
or ()lllt)l‘\\'l:'U as ]irovi(l£“'l in such section.
tl('llHll Ctlll l’\11l}' be ('<'llil1l’lQIlC(‘~(l by l0£L\'O HS I)I‘O‘\Tl<,lGd ill
section .'3.')l3 [I13], sueh leave shall be granted when it
appears bv atlidavit that the acts or omissions in such
set-tion >'pe<-ilh-ll have been done or suiiercd by such cor
]>or-ation. \\'hen an action is eommcnce<,l on the infor
iaation of a private person. as allowed in section 357
[3T»l_], having an interest in the question, such party, for
all the purposes of the action, and as to the etfect of any
\Vhen an
judgment that may be given therein, shall be deemed a
co-plaintiff with the state.
§ 360. [357.] \Vhen directed by the governor, as pre-
scribed in section 355 [352], it shall be the duty of the
prosecuting attorney to commence the action therein
provided for accordingly. In all other actions provided
for in this title it shall be the duty of the proper prose
cuting attorney to commence such action, upon leave
given where leave is required, in every case of public
interest, whenever he has reason to believe that a cause of
action exists and can be proven, and also for like reasons
in every case of private interest only in which satisfactory
security is given to the state to indemnify it against the
costs and expenses that may be incurred thereby.
§ 361. [358.] Whenever an action is brought against
a person for any of the causes speciﬁed in subdivision 1
of section 357 [354], the prosecuting attorney, in addition
to the statement of the cause of action, may also separately
set forth in the complaint the name of the person
rightfully entitled to the office or franchise, with a state
ment of the facts constituting his right thereto. In such
case, judgment may be given upon the right of the de
fendant, and also upon the right of the person, so alleged
to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant,
as justice may require.
§ 362. [359.] If judgment be given upon the right
of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be
in favor of such person, he shall be entitled to the possession
and enjoyment of such franchise, or to take upon
himself the execution of such oﬁice, after qualifying him
self therefor as required by law, and to demand and re
ceive the possession of all the books, papers, and property
of whatever nature belonging thereto.
§ 363. [360.] If judgment be given upon the right
and in favor of the person so alleged to be entitled, he
may afterwards maintain an action to recover the damages
which he may have sustained by reason of the
premises. In such action the defendant may be arrested
and held to bail in the same manner and with like effect
as in other actions at law where the defendant is subject
to arrest.
364. [$61.] Several persons may be joined as de
fendants in an action for the causes specified in subdivis
ion 1 of section 357 [S54], and in such action their
respective rights to such otlice or franchise may be de
termined.
§ 2305. 302.] When a defendant, whether a natural
person or a corporation, against whom an action has been
commenced for any of the causes specified in subdivision
1 of section 357 [I35-1], is determined to be guilty of usurp
ing, or intruding into, or unlawfully holding or exercis
in;_r any ot~lice or fr-.mchise, judgment shall be given that
such defen,dant be excluded therefrom. The court may
also in its discretion impose a ﬁne upon the defendant
not mceeding two thousand dollars.
§ 366. [3t.53.] If it be determined that a corporation,
against which an action has been commenced pursuant
to this title, has forfeited its corporate rights, privileges,
and francliiscs, judgment shall be given that such corpo
ration he excluded therefrom, and that the corporation be
dissolved. '
§ 3 37. [£364.] Ifjudgment be given against a corpora
tion, the effect of which is that such corporation ceased
to exist, or whereby any letters patent are determined
to he vacated or annulled, it shall be the duty of the
prosecuting attorney to cause a copy of the judgment roll
to he tiled in the otlice of the secretary of state.
§ 3(3S. [3(‘>-l a.] A judgment given in any action pro
vided for in this title, in respect to costs and disburse-.
1nents, may be enforced by execution as a judgment
which 1‘t'(1ttlI‘('S the payment of money, and in all other
I‘tI‘.~‘]’)('(‘lS ohcdience thereto may be enforced by attach
ment of the body of the defendant, or if the defendant
he a corporation, the body of any or all of the oﬁieers or
rnemhers of such corporation refusing or neglecting obe
(llt'11CO thereto.
§ 369. [365.] A cause of action arising out of an injury
to the person dies with the person of either party, except
as provided in section 371 [367]. But the provisions of
this title shall not be construed so as to abate the action
mentioned in section 39 [38], or to defeat or prejudice
the right of action given by section 34 [33].
See the next section.
§ 370. [366.] All other causes of action, by one per-
son against another, whether arising on contract or
otherwise, survive to the personal representatives of the
former and against the personal representatives of the
latter. When the cause of action survives as herein
provided, the executors or administrators may maintain
an action at law thereon against the party against whom
the cause of action accrued, or after his death against
his personal representatives.
§ 371. [367.] When the death of a person is caused
by the wrongful act or omission of another, the personal
representatives of the former may maintain an action at
. . .
law therefor agamst the latter, 1f the former might have
maintained an action, had he lived, against the latter, for
an injury done by the same act or omission. Such ac
tion shall he commenced within two years after the
death, and the damages therein shall not exceed ﬁve
thousand dollars, and the amount recovered, if any, shall
be administered as other personal property of the de
ceased person.
§ 372. [:3ﬁ8.] In an action against several executors or
administrators, they shall all be considered as one person
representing their testator or intestate, and judgment
may be given and execution issued against all of them
who are del'endants in the action, although the summons
he scrvc(,'l only on part of them, in the same manner and
with like ctlicct as it served on all; except as provided in
the next section.
373. [.'}(‘>‘.l.] When a judgment is given against an
executor or administrator for want of answer, such judg
ment is not to he deemed evidence of‘ assets in his hands,
unless it appear that the complaint alleged assets, and
that the sumnions \v-as served upon him.
§.‘tT-. [ilTtl.] In an action against executors or ad
ministrators, in which the fact of their having adminis
tcrcd the estate of their testator or intestate, or any part
thereof’, is put in issiic, and the inventory of the property
of‘ tho <h,-ceased rcturned by them is given in evidence,
the saine n1a§' he contradicted or avoided by cvidence,——
1. 'l‘l1-at any property has been omitted in such inven
tory, or was not returned therein at its full value, or that
since the return thereof such‘propcrt_v has increased in
value; U
2. That such p1‘opcrty has perished or been lost, with
out the fault of such executors or administrators; or that
it has l)t'L‘ll i;1i1'lj' and duly sold by tl1cn_1 at a less price
than the value so returned; or that, since the return of
the inventory, such property has deteriorated in value.
In such action the defendants cannot be charged for any
. . . . . . . .
things in action, speciﬁed in their inventory, unless it
appear that they have been collected, or with due dili
gence might have been.
§ 375. [371.] No person is liable to an action as executor
of his own wrong, for having taken, received, or
. . _
interfered with the property of a deceased person; but is
responsible to the executors or administrators of such
deceased person, for the value of all property so taken or
received, and for all injury caused by his interference
with the estate of the deceased.
See Rutherford v. Thompson, 14 Or. 236.
§376. [372.] An executor of an executor has I10,
authority as such to commence or maintain an action
or proceeding relating to the estate of the testator of
the ﬁrst executor, or to take any charge or control
thereof.
§ 377. [373.] An action may be commenced against
an executor or administrator at any time after the ex-
piration of six months from the granting of letters
testamentary or of administration, and until the ﬁnal
settlement of the estate, and discharge of such executor
or administrator from the trust, and not otherwise.
§ 378. [374.] Such action shall not be commenced
until the claim of the plaintiff has been duly presented
. . . .
to such executor or administrator, and by him disallowed.
If such claim is presented after the expiration
of such period of six months, the executor or adminis
trator in an action therefor shall only be liable to the
extent of the assets in his hands at the time the sum
mons is served upon him. -_
§ 379. [375.] In an action against an executor or ad-
rninistrator, as such, the provisional remedies of arrest
and attachment shall not be allowed on account of the
. . .
acts of his testator or intestate; but for his own acts as
_ _ ,
such executor or administrator such remedies shall be
allowed for the same causes, and in like manner, and
with like effect, as in actions at law generally.
§
380. [$376.] The enforcement or protection of a
private right, or the prevention Of or redress for an
injury thereto, shall be obtained by a suit in equity in
all cases where there is not a plain, adequate, and com
plete remedy at law; and may be obtained thereby in
all cases where courts of equity have been used to exer
cise concurrent jurisdiction with courts of law, unless
otherwise specially provided in this chapter. In a suit,
the party complaining shall be known as the plaintiﬂ',
and the adverse party as the defendant.
§ 381. [377.] Bills of rcvivor and bills of review, of
whatever nature, exceptions for insufficiency, imparti
nence, or irrelevancy,and cross-bills, except as hereinafter
mentioned, are abolished; but a decree in equity may
be impeached and set aside, suspended, avoided, or car
ried into execution by an original suit. And in an ac
tion at law, where the defendant is entitled to relief,
arising out of facts requiring the interposition of a court
of equity, and material for his defense, he may, upon
ﬁling his answer therein, also as plaintiff ﬁlo a complaint
in equity, in the nature of cross-bill, which shall stay
the proceedings at law, and the case thereafter shall pro
ceed as in a suit in equity, in which said proceeding may
be perpetually enjoined by ﬁnal decree, or allowed to
proceed in accordance with such ﬁnal decree. The mode
of proceedings in a suit, from the commencement to the
determination thereof, and thereafter until satisfaction
or performance of the decree be had, shall be as provided
in this chapter, and not otherwise.
§ 382. [£378.] A suit shall only be commenced with
in the time limited to commence an action as provided
in title II. of chapter I. of this code; and a suit for the
determination of any right or claim to or interest in
real property shall be deemed within the limitations pro
vided for actions for the recovery of the possession of
real property; but no suit shall be maintained to set
aside, cancel, annul, or otherwise effect a. patent to lands
issued by the United States or this state, or to compel any
person claiming or holding under such patent to convey
the lands described therein, or any portion of them, to
the plaintiff in such suit, or to hold the same in trust
for, or to the use and beneﬁt of, such plaintiff, or on ac
count of any matter, thing, or transaction which was had,
done, suffered, or transpired prior to the date of such
patent, unless such suit is commenced within ten years
from the date of such patent. In a. suit upon a new prom
ise, fraud, or mistake, the limitation shall only be deemed
to commence from the making of the new promise or the
discovery of the fraud or mistake; provided, this section
shall not be construed so as to bar an equitable owner in
possession of real property from defending his possession
by means of his equitable title; and in any action for the
recovery of any real property, or the possession thereof,
by any person or persons claiming or holding the legal
title to the same under such patent against any person
or persons in possession of such real property under any
equitable title, or having in equity the right to the pos
session thereof as against the plaintiff in such "action,
such equitable right of possession may be pleaded by
answer in such action, or set up by bill in equity to en
join such [action] or execution upon any judgment
rendered therein; and the right of such equitable owner
to defend his possession in such action, or by bill for in~
junction, shall not be barred by lapse of time while an
action for the possession of such real property is not by
the possession [provisions] of title II. of chapter I. of this
code.
§383. [379.] Every suit shall be prosecuted in the
name of the real party in interest, except as in this sec
tion otherwise provided. An executor or an administra
tor, a trustee _of an express trust, or a person expressly
authorized to sue by statute, may sue without joining
with him the person for whose beneﬁt the suit is prose
cuted. A trustee of an express trust within the meaning
of this section shall be construed to include a person
with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the
beneﬁt of another.
§ 384. [380] All persons having an interest in the
subject of the suit, and in obtaining the relief demanded,
may be joined as plaintiifs, except as in this chapter
otherwise provided. Any person may be made a de
fendant who has or claims an interest in the controversy
adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a necessary party to a
complete determination or settlement of the questions
involved therein.
or claim to or interest in real prop
Trustee of express trust; See
§ 29 [29], ante.
amoqm890!“‘nusmu0;sogwzdonl.10
['L\“'if]‘QM:§'
-puagap.10Sl}I1II§R[(Isvpaxxynfsqq.=nm1m.m1u;uppolguu
UGQQSA‘W{PI110[[S()l[,\\0110KIN?J(,)11‘.J‘I~‘II().);H{“-kM1W1£91111?
9Rm9(Kmnor‘mum(0muum:.w;:am:<191:).mml‘ .1..1.II..
-mooaqlugpannsihtgaq}u0.1‘.)q1m:)=m.1M11‘1TIP[)lI3_IO[)1:
-U93.10IIOLII[IIO.)1}J()mm9;110119011?»mp1.1.n[.~.\pm::1up2[(I
9.18sa;1.n*.(Impu.)1[‘\\.10‘su0.Q.m<IKmurru_w1s.w.1n1ng[mo
puapp.10onsKnm010m.10mm‘;.11\0:)sq;;).I(‘)‘}.')({H1:msnll
ﬁupq01a[qn0;10n.1<I11x§mlKnm1;pm:‘.<xm.munmJ\I1J.\
'‘)[0\[.\\mp‘In‘ma\1."»([muJO}
‘[98]L8‘[Z~8J88‘[1816-s:‘ozz‘SE-“1"‘*’!1>‘"S['7-err]'t)8fI§
"I-191d‘"‘[9.10‘III@I1!'13°‘[m~]I1-I’""‘[<::i:]or‘1:1]98
88920Sup\\0[[0_}mp11;511111,»)11;.'\~;;1\g[-{:_Q{;]'Lg§{i;§
'.\"1!11b.1)ug7<1§11i<H]‘\'[<I'h:Hm[.Q
—:o1nn11s9;‘_V100\1;n[';:1J1:(Imuos.1~‘1§n.<0r[‘1J<;>1.)0_Fqns
eqq9.Iaq.\\A'1un0001H11;1>(>gL11pm:po.)1z.wu1m.)mlHnqs
fX1JO¢l0.1(I{V0.1umlnnan“rtJ0€).II1I<('lYl3").1H']mp,.I<'»L,I'8
fA”110‘.l(u(I{'R;).IUmIl()U{11I?1[amJucl-[
9.')tI‘8tII.I0}.I0(I:)U§.)0(Is'mpJO‘;\‘1.10d0.uI{I20111;1.~".0.I0)II§.10
‘amuse‘Ium[.)99.1-o.\[,n:1112_;n11¢»;1nugm.1;)‘1.)[>mp.I0¢['3
of an agreement inrrelation thereto. In all other cases,
the suit shall be commenced and tried in the county in
which the defendants, or either of them, reside, or may
be found at the commencement of the suit, or if none of
the defendants reside in this state, the same may be
commenced and tried in any county in the state Which
the plaintiff may designate in his complaint.
See § 42 [41], ante, et seq., as to the venue of actions at law.
§ 388. [384.] The court may change the place of
trial on the motion of either party to the suit, where it
appears_from the affidavit of such party, either,—
1. That the suit has not been commenced in the
proper county; or,
2. That the judge is a party to, directly interested in,
the event of the suit, or connected by consanguinity or
aﬂinity, within the third degree, with the adverse party
or those for whom he prosecutes or defends; and,
3. That the motion is not made for the purpose of
delay.
Such change may be taken at any time before answer,
and not otherwise, and in the manner and with like
eﬂ'ect as in an action.
For provision respecting change of venue in actions at law, see §§ 45 [44]
and 46 [45], ante.
§ 389. [385.] The provisions of chapter I., from and
inclusive of title V., of such chapter, to and inclusive of
title XIII. thereof, shall apply to and govern the mode
of proceeding in suits, except as otherwise or specially
provided in this chapter.
§ 390. [3S6.] When there is more than one defendant
in the suit, service of the summons may be made by
serving only one copy of the corgplai_nt, the same to be
served on the defendant designated by the plaintiff or
his attorney by a direction indorsed on such summons.
§ 391. [387.] In addition to the cases enumerated in
the subdivisions of section 56 [55], service of the sum-
mons may be made by publication in the following
cases:—
1. When the subject of the suit is real or personal
property in this state, and the defendant has or claims a
lien or interest actual or contingent therein, or the re
lief demanded consists wholly or partly in excluding the
defendant from any lien or interest therein;
‘2. When the suit is for divorce, in cases provided for
in title VII. of this chapter.
§ 33.2. [$88.] The objection to the jurisdiction of the
court, or that the complaint does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of suit, if not taken by demurrer or
answer, may be made on the trial.
§ 393. [£389.] The counterclaim of the defendant
shall be one upon which a suit might be maintained by
the defendant against the plaintiff in the suit; ‘and in
addition to the cases specitied in the subdivisions of
section 73 [72], it is sutlieient if it be connected with the
subject of the suit.
Sections 90 [SS], 91 [89], 92 [90],
and S93 [01] shall not apply to suits in equity.
§ 394. [390.] The plaintiff in a suit may unite several
causes of suit in the same complaint, when they all arise
out of,
1. The same transaction, or transactions connected
with the same subject of suit;
2. Contract express or implied; or,
3. Injuries with or without force to property,
4. Claims to real property, or any interest therein,
with or without an account for the rents and proﬁts
thereof;
5. Claims to personal property, or any interest therein,
with or without an account for the use thereof;
6. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or
by operation of law.
But the causes of suit so united must all belong to
one of these classes, and must affect all the parties to the
suit, and not require different places of trial, and shall
be separately stated.
See § 93 [91], ante, as to what causes may be united in actions at law.
§395. [391.] The writ of ne exeat is abolished, and
instead thereof the plaintiff in a suit may have the de-
fendant arrested and held to bail in like manner and
with like effect as provided in title XIII. of chapter I.
of this code. A cause of arrest in a suit shall be the
same as those speciﬁed in section 108 [106],_so far as the
same may exist, and not otherwise.
,8 396. [I;‘.t'2.] The provisions of title I. of chapter
11. of this cetle shall apply to suits, except as in this
title ntln-l'\\'i>‘e er specially previtletl. Both issues of law
amt fact >.ha1l he tried hy the court, unless referred.
\\'ln-never it hc<-mm-s necessary or proper to inquire of
any l':i|‘I hy the \'<-rtlict of a _j111'}', the court niay direct a
>.-tan-int-nt tllt‘1'('t)l.. amt that a jury he f()PII10(_l to inquire
of the The statement shall be tried as an issue of
t‘.'n-t in an action, aml the verdict may he read as evi
5111111‘.
t1(.‘11(‘t‘, on the trial of the suit.
§ .‘)‘.>T. [$133.] All ISSLIOS of fact in suits in equity
1nay he tl'1w1 lg’ the court, antl it tried by the court, the
cvi<1cn¢-c shall 1HJI>1‘0S('1]t(‘t1 and the trial conducted in
the .~1an1e nianncr as actions at law; provzldal, that the
court niay, in its tliscrctien, refer the case to a referee,
]m1'sua1it tUt1l(‘]J1'U\'lSlt)11S 01' section 815 [805] Of this
('(>(lt‘. In all suits, the court, in rendering its decisions
t.h(~r<-in, shall set. out in writinc1r its ﬁndings of fact upon
all the Ill;tt(‘1‘1;ll isst1e ot' tin-t ]'irescntc<l hy the plea(lings,
l(h‘_f(‘tllt‘1‘ with its ('(lll(‘11lS1()lIS (ifl;i\\'tl1(:1'eo1i; but such
tiliiliiijgs of fact ainl ceiit-lusiens of law shall he separate
front the (1C“("‘l'L't‘,1lllt1 shall he tiled with the clerk, and
shall he in<-orpe1'a‘tc(l in, and constitute a part Of, the
j1tt1‘;;lllt'1ltv roll of said case; and such 1indi11gs of fact shall
1ui\'c the same three an<l ctt'cct, and he equally conclusive,
Exceptions
as the \'(-r<li<-t of’ a jury in an action at law.
may he taken il111‘in; the trial to the ruling of the court,
amt also to its ti1n1inj;sot' tact; ;l11tl1tSttltQl11C1ItOf such
("Xt‘L'I>t1Ul1:' prcparc<l and scttlctl as in [an] action at law,
and the same shall be ﬁled with the clerk within ten
days from the -entering of the decree, or such further
time as the court may allow.

al shall proceed in the order prescribed in subdivisions
1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 of section 196 [194], unless the court for
special reasons otherwise directs.
§ 399. [395.] Upon the trial either party may object
to the reading of a deposition or any part thereof, when
offered by the other, because the witness is incompetent,
or the testimony is so, or irrelevant, and not otherwise.
All other objections to depositions shall be taken by
written exceptions ﬁled with the clerk within ten days
from the closing of the testimony, and before the ﬁrst day
of the term next following thereto, and may be heard and
decided by the court or judge thereof at any time there
after before the trial of the suit.
§400. [396.] When it appears from the deposition
that a party was present at the examination of a witness,
sueh party shall not be heard to object to anything in or
concerning such deposition -not excepted to at the time
of taking the same, except the objections allowed to be
taken on the trial as provided in section 397 [393].
When any part of the examination of awitness is excluded
for any reason, so much of the cross-examination as re
lates to the same matter is excluded also.
§ 401. [397.] The provisions of title VI. and X. of
chapter II. of this code shall apply to suits, but the ﬁnal
determination of the rights of the parties thereto is called
a decree, and any intermediate determination is called
an order.
§ 402. [398.] A decree dismissing a suit may be
given against the plaintiff in any of the cases speciﬁed
in subdivisions 1, 2, and 3 of section 246 [243], except
the last clause of such subdivision 3. Such decree is a
determination of the suit, but shall not have the effect to
bar another suit for the same cause or any part thereof.
§ 403. [£399.] Whenever upon the trial it is determined
that the plaintiff is not entitled to the relief claimed or
any part thereof, a decree shall be given dismissing the
suit, and such decree shall have the effect to bar another
suit for the same cause or any part thereof, unless such
determination be on account of a failure of proof on the
part'of the plaintiff, in which case the court may, on
motion of such plaintiff, give such decree without preju
dice to another suit by the plaintiff for the same cause or
_ any part thereof.
§ 404. [400.] The provisions of title XII., also of title
XIII., of chapter II. of this code, from and inclusive of
section 250 [247], to and inclusive of section 253 [250],
shall apply to suits. The provisions of title XIV. of
such chapter shall apply to controversies which might
be the subject of a suit.
§ 405. [401.] When upon the submission of a suit
the court is unadvised as to what decree ought to be
given therein, it may reserve the case for further consid
eration, and may decide the same and give such decree
in vacation by ﬁling the same with the clerk. \Vhen a
decree is given in a suit, unless otherwise ordered by the
court, it shall be entered by the clerk within the day it
is given. Sections 260 [257], 261 [258], 263 [260], 264
[261], and 268 [265] of this code shall apply to suits.
The provisions of title XVI. of chapter II. of this code
shall apply to decrees and the ﬁnal record or roll thereof.
§ 406. [402] A decree requiring a party to make a
conveyance, transfer, release, acquittance, or other like
act within a period therein speciﬁed shall, if such party
do not comply therewith, be deemed and taken to be
equivalent thereto. The court or judge thereof may en
force an order or decree in a suit, other than for the pay
ment of money, by punishing the party refusing or
neglecting to comply therewith, as for a contempt.
Punishment of contempt; See chapter 7, title 4, post.
§407. [403.] The provisions of chapter III. of this
.code shall apply to the enforcement of decree so far as
the nature of the decree may require or admit of it; but
the mode of trial of an issue of fact in a proceeding
against a garnishee shall be according to the mode of
trial of such issue in a suit.
§408. [404.] An injunction is an order requiring a
defendant in a suit to refrain from a particular act; it is
only allowed as a provisional remedy, and when a decree
is given enjoining a defendant, such decree shall be
effectual and binding on such defendant without other
proceeding or process, and may be enforced if necessary
as provided in section 406 [402].
§409. [405.] An injunction may be allowed by the
court, or judge thereof, at any time after the commence
ment of the suit and before decree. Before allowing
the same, the court or judge shall require of the plaintiff
an undertaking, with one or more sureties, to the effect
that he will pay all costs and disbursements that may be
decreed to the defendant, and such damages, not exceed
ing an amount therein speciﬁed, as he may sustain by
reason of the injunction if the same be wrongful or
without suilicient cause.
thereon; except that the service shall be made upon the
defendant personally. The order may be ﬁled with the
clerk at once, and shall be deemed to be served upon the
defendant from the date of its allowance, if it appear
therefrom that the defendant appeared before the court
or judge at the allowance thereof.
Service of summons: See §§ 54 [53], ante, et seq.
§ 411. [407.] When it appears by the complaint that
the defendant is entitled to the relief demanded, and
such relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining
the commission or continuance of some act, the commis
sion or continuance of which during the litigation
would produce injury to the plaintiff; or when it appears
by aﬂidavit that the defendant is doing, or threatens or
is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done,
some act in violation of the plaintiﬁ"s rights concerning
the subject of the suit, and tending to render the decree
ineffectual; or when it appears by affidavit that the de
fendant threatens or is about to remove or dispose of
his property, or any part thereof, with intent to delay or
defraud his creditors,-—an injunction may be allowed to
restrain such act, removal, or disposition.

§ ll‘.2. [-108.] An injunction shall not be allowed after
the dcl‘unlant has 2lll:'\\'t_'l‘L‘tl, except upon notice, but in
such case the defendant nmy be restrained until the de
cision of the court or jLl(l}_§0 allowing or refusing the in
junction; and l,>efore ans\\'er, if the court or judge deem
it proper th-tit the deteinlaiit should he heard before al
lo\\'in;_g an injunction, an order inay he made requiring
the del'en<_lant to sliow cause, at a speciﬁed time and place,
\\'h)' the injunction should not he allowed; and in the
mean time the det'endtt11t~ Inay be restrained.
Injunction after judgment or appeal: See the preceding section.
§4l.‘3. [‘l(‘)‘.l.] if the injunction be allowed without
notice, the defendant Ina)‘, at any time after answer, and
before trial, apply, upon notice, to the court or judge
tliereof, to \'a(-ate or 1no<lif_\' the same. The application
inay he made upon nlli(la\'its in addition to the answer,
and it‘ so, the pl-iii1itill'1i1ay oppose the same by atiidavits,
or other e-\'i<'lence, in addition to those upon which the
injunction \\':1.s' allowed. If, upon the hearing of the mo
tion, it satisfaetoi-ilj' appears that the injunction should
not have been alloxvcd, either in whole or in part, it shall
be \'acate<l or niodilietl accordingly.
§ 414. [410.] A lien upon real or personal property,
other than that of a judgment or decree, whether created
by mortgage or otherwise, shall be foreclosed, and the
property adjudged to be sold to satisfy the debt secured
thereby, by a suit. In such suit, in addition to the de
cree of foreclosure and sale, if it appear that o. promis
sory note or other personal obligation for the payment
Of the debt has been given by the mortgagor or other
lion debtor, or by any other person as principal or other- I
wise, the court shall also decree a recovery of the amount
of such debt against such person or persons, as the case ,
may be, as in the case of an ordinary decree for the re
covery of money.

§-115. [~l1l.] Any person liuving at lien subsequent
to the ]il:ii1ititl' upon the some property or any part
tlicrcot‘, or Wllﬁ hu>‘ eivcii :1 pro1nisso1'_\' note or other
per.<oiiul ol>lig:dion for the 1'i;1}'1nci1t of the debt or any
p-tirt tlicrt-oi‘, 5t‘t'llI‘i-il hy the mortgage or other lien which
is the siilrjcct, of the suit, shall he nnnle it det'enda.nt in
the suit, and uny 1)t‘]'SOl1 litiviiig it prior lien may be
nizidc tl(‘l't‘~l1(l;ll1t at the option of the plziiiititf, or by the
order of the court when dee1n0d necessary.
§416. [412.] When it is adjudged that any of the
defendants have a. lien upon the property, the court shall
make a like decree in relation thereto, and the debt se
cured thereby, as if such defendant were a plaintiff in the
suit; and when a. decree is given foreclosing two or more
liens upon the same property or any portion thereof in
avor of ditl'ercnt persons not united in interest. Such
decree sh-all deter1nine and specify the order of time,
accordin;_r to their priority, in which the debts secured
11y stteh liens shall he satistied out of the proceeds of the
sale of t11e property.
§117. [-1121.] '1‘11e decree may be enforced by the
execution as an ordinary decree for the recovery of
111o11e_\', e.\'eept as i11 this section otlierwise or specially
].1t‘ti\'i\letl: —
1. \\l1<*t1 a decree of foreclosure and sale is given, an
execution niay issue thereon a;__511i11st the property ad-’
jtttlf_[t*tl in 110 >3()ltl.
If the decree is i11 favor of the plain
ti11' only, the e.\'eet1tio11 may issue in ordinary cases,
but if it he i11 favor of tlitfercttt persons, not united in
interest, it sltall issue upon the joint request of such
pro-r~'o11s, or upon the order of the court or jtidge thereof
on the tnotiou oft-it11eroftheni.
‘.3. \\'hen the dee1‘ee is also agailist the defendants 01'
atty one of the1n i11 persoti, and the proceeds of the sale
of the [t1‘opet‘ty upon \v11ic11 the lien is foreclosed is not
stttlit-it~11t to .<:tt'ist'ytl1e decree as to the stun remaining
uttsatistietl, the <11;-c1'ee 1na__\' be enforced by execution as
i11 ordiitary cases. \\'hen in sut-11 case the decree is in
favor of 1111111-rt-11t persoiis not united i11 interest, it shall
1»; deetned :1 separate decree as to such persons, and may
be enforced £1t‘('ti)1‘<ll1l_t1'l\'.
.
§-119. [41-1.] A decree of fo1'eelost1re shall have the
e11‘t-rt to 1>ar the etlttity of retleniption, and property sold
on t‘.\'('('11l1t111 issttwl upon :1 decree 11111)‘ he redeemed in
like u1:111t1er and with like effect as property sold on an
execution issued on a .]'t1t_lg111L‘11i1, and not otherwise.
I
§-119. [415.] When any of the proceeds of the sale
remains with the clerk unclaimed by the person who is
entitled to the same for the period of two months, the
court or judge thereof shall direct that the same be put
at interest by the clerk, subject to the order of the court,
for the beneﬁt of such person, his representatives or
assigns.
§ 420. [416.] During the pendency of an action tit‘
law for the recovery of a debt secured by any lien men
tioned in section 414 [410], a. suit cannot be maintained
for the foreclosure of such lien, nor thereafter, unless
judgment be given in such action that the plaintiff re
cover such debt or some part thereof, and an execution
thereon against the property of the defendant in the
judgment is returned unsatisﬁed in whole or in part.
§-421. [417.] When a suit is commenced to foreclose
a. lien, by phich a debt is secured, which debt is pay
able in installments, either of interest or principal, and
any of such installments is not then due, the court shall
decree a foreclosure of the lien, and may also decree a.
sale of the property for the satisfaction of the whole of
such debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy the installment then due, with costs of suit; and
in the latter case, the decree of foreclosure as to the re
‘mainder of the
property may be enforced by an order
of sale, in whole or in part, whenever default shall be
made in the payment of the installments not then due.

§ 422. [418] If, before a decree is given, the amount
then due with the costs of suit is brought into court and
paid to the clerk, the suit shall be dismissed, and if the
same be done after decree and before sale, the effect of
the decree as to the amount then due and paid shall be
l(‘l'lllllltllt.J('l, and the execution, if any have issued, be re
('allc<l by the clerk. When an installment not due is
a<ljiul_t1<-<1 to be paid, the court. shall determine and specify
in tln: (l(‘(‘l‘CC what sum shall be received in satisfaction
lll(‘l‘('(')l‘, \\'lll(‘ll sum may be equal to such installment-, or
otlu-1-wi.<e, aeco1'<.lin3._r to the present value thereof. The
]>ro\'i>ions of this title as to the liens upon personal
p1-opt-1-t_v are not to be con>'tI‘ue(l so as to exclude a per
son l1tl\'lll}I .<u<*-l1 a lien from any other remedy or right
in 1't-gj'.|1‘(.l to such property.

§ 423. [:1 19.] When several persons hold and are in
po.<s‘es‘sioii of real property as tenants in common, in
\\'hiCh one or more Oi‘ Ill(‘lll have an estate of inheritance,
or for life or years, a suit may be maintained by one or
more of smh persons for a partition thereof according to
the respective rights of the persons interested therein,
and for :1 sale of such property, or a part of it, if it appear
that a partition cannot be made without great prejudice
lo the o\\'Iic1's. .
§ 424. [420.] The interest of all persons in the property,
whether such persons be known or unknown, shall
be set forth in the complaint, speciﬁcally and particularly,
as far as known to the plaintiff; and if one or more of
the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of
the parties, be unknown to the plaintiff, or be uncertain
or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance de
pend upon an executory devise, or the remainder be a.
contingent remainder, so that such parties cannot be
named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.
§425. [421.] The plaintiff may, at his option, make
creditors having alien upon the property or any portion
thereof, other than by judgment or decree, defendants in
the suit. When the lien is upon an undivided interest
or estate of any of the parties, such lien, if a. partition
be made, is thenceforth a lien only upon the share as
signed to such party; but such share shall be ﬁrst
charged with its just proportion of the costs of the par
tition, in preference to such lien.
§ 426. [422]. The summons shall be directed by
name to all the tenants in common who are known, and
in the same manner to all lien creditors who are made
parties to the suit, and generally to all persons unknown
having or claiming an interest or estate in the property.
§427. [-123.] If 8. party, having a share or interest
in or lien upon the property be unknown, or either of
the known parties reside out of the state or cannot be
found therein, and such fact be made to appear by ath
davit, the summons may be served upon such‘ absent or
unknown party by publication, directed by the court or
judge, as in ordinary cases. When service of the sum
mons is made by publication, it must be accompanied by
a brief description of the property which is the subject
of the suit.
Service of summons by publication: See § 55 [54], ante, et seq.
§ 428. [424.] The defendant shall set forth in his
answer the nature and extent of his interest in the prop
erty, and if he be a lien creditor, how such lien was cre
ated, the amount of the debt secured thereby, and
remaining due, and whether such debt is secured in any
other way, and if so, the nature of such other security.
§ 429. [425.] The rights of the several parties, plain
tiifs as well as defendants, may be put in issue, tried, and
determined in such suit, and where a. defendant fails to
answer, or where a sale of the property is necessary, the
title shall be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction of
the court before the decree for partition or sale is given.

§430. [426.] If it be alleged in the complaint and
established by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence,
without such allegation in the complaint, to the satisfac
tion of the court, that the property or any part of it is
so situated that partition cannot be made without great
prejudice ' to the owners, the court may order a sale
thereof, and for that purpose may appoint one or more
referees. Otherwise, upon the requisite proofs being
made, it shall decree a partition according to the respect
ive rights of the parties, as ascertained by the court, and
appoint three referees therefor, and shall designate the
portion to remain undivided for the owners whose inter
ests remain unknown or not ascertained.

all divide the property, and allot the several portions
thereof to the respective parties, quality and quantity
relatively considered, according to the respective rights
.
of the parties as determined by the court, designating
the several portions by proper landmarks, and may em
ploy a surveyor with the necessary assistants to aid them
therein. The referee shall make a report of their pro
ceedings, specifying therein the manner of executing
their trust, describing the property divided and the
shares allotted to each party, with a particular descrip
tion of each share.
§ -132. [£28.] The court may confirm or set aside the
report in whole or in part, and if necessary appoint new
referees. Upon the report being confirmed, a decree
shall be given that such partition be effectual forever,
Which decree shall be binding and conclusive,—
1. On all parties named therein, and their legal repre
sentatives, who have at the time any interest in the prop
erty divided, or any part thereof, as owners in fee, or as
tenants for life or for years, or as entitled to the rever
sion, remainder, or inheritance of such property or any
part thereof after the termination of a particular estate
therein, or who by any contingency may be entitled to a
beneﬁcial interest in the property, or who have an in
terest in any undivided share thereof as tenants for years
or for life;
2. (,)n all persons interested in the property who may
be unknown, to Wholn notice shall have been given of
the application for partition by publication, as directed
by section 427 [423]; and,
3. ()n all other persons claiming from such parties or
persons, or either of them.
§ 433. [429.] But such decree and partition shall not
aifect any tenants for years or for life of the whole of the
property which is the subject of partition; nor shall such
decree or partition preclude any person, except such as
are speciﬁed in the last section, from claiming title to the
property in question, or from controverting the title of
the parties between whom the partition shall have been
made.
§ 434. [430.] The expenses of the referees, including
those of a surveyor and his assistants, when employed,
shall be ascertained and allowed by the court, and the
amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by law to
the referees, shall be paid by the plaintiff, and may be
allowed as part of the charges.
§ 435. [431.] If the referees report to the court that
the property of which partition shall have been decreed,
. . .
or any separate portion thereof, is so situated that a par-
tition thereof cannot be made without great prejudice to
the owners, and the court is satisﬁed that such report is
correct, it may thereupon, by an order, direct the referees
to sell the property or separate portion thereof so situated.
§ 436. [432]. When a part of the property only is ordered
to be sold, if there be an estate for life or years in
an undivided share of the property, the whole of such
estate may be set off in any part of the property not
ordered to be sold.
§ 437. [433.] Before making an order of sale, if lien
creditors, other than those by judgment or decree, have
not been made parties, the court, on motion of either
party, shall order the plaintiff to ﬁle a supplemental com-
plaint, making such creditorsparties defendant to the
suit. 
§ 438. [434.] If an order of sale be made, and before
a distribution of the proceeds thereof, the plaintiff shall
produce to the court the certiﬁcate of the clerk of the
county where the property is situated, showing the liens
remaining unsatisticd, if any, by judgment or decree
upon the property, or any portion thereof, and unless he
do so, the court shall order a referee to ascertain them.
§ -li“.). [4:33] If it appear by such certificate, or refer
ence in case the certiticate is not produced, that any
such liens exist, the court shall appoint a referee to ascer
tain what amount remains due thereon or secured there
by 1'especti\'ely, and the order of priority in which they
are entitled to be paid out of the property.
§ ~l-it). [4:J(3.] The plaintitf must cause a notice to be
ser\'cd, at least ten days before the time for appearance,
on each person having such lien by judgment or decree,
to appear before the referee at a specified time and place,
to make proof by his own atlidavit or otherwise of the
true amount due, or to become due, eontingently or abso
lutely, on his judglnent or decree.
5‘ ill. H37. The referee shall receive the evidence,
and report the names of the creditors whose liens are
e>'tablislied, the alnounts due thereon or secured thereby,
and their priority respeeti\'ely, and whether contingent
He shall attach to his report the proof of
OI‘ al_»solute.
ser\-ice of the notices and the evidence before him.
§-l-J2. [~1£35.] The report of the referee may be ex
ceptetl to by either party to the suit or to the proceed
ings before the referee, in like manner and with like
ctfect as in ordinary cases. If a lien creditor be absent
front the state, or his residence therein be unknown, and
that fact appear by atlida\'it, the court or judge thereof
may by order direct that service of the notice may be made
upon his agent or attorney of record, or by publication
tliercof for such time and in such manner as the order
1na_\' p1'es(;1'il>e.

§ 413. [4I,§‘1] 1f the report of the referee be conﬁrmed,
tlit- order of confirmation is binding and conclusive upon
all parties to the suit and upon the lien creditors who
have been duly served with the notice to appear before
_ _ .
the referee as provided 1n section 440 [436].
§ 444. [440.] The proceeds of the sale of the ~encum-
bered property shall be distributed by the decree of the
court as follows:—
1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of
the suit;
2. To pay the costs of the reference;
3. To satisfy the several liens, in their order of prior
ity, by payment of the sums due, and to become due,
according to the decree;
4. The residue among the owners of the property sold,
according to their respective shares.
§445. [441.] Whenever any party to the suit who
holds a lien upon the property or any part thereof has
other securities for the payment of the amount of such
lien, the court may, in its discretion, order such securi-
ties to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds
of sale, or may order a just deduction to be made from
the amount of the lien on the property on account
thereof.
§ 446. [442.] The proceedings to ascertain the amount
of the liens, and to determine their priority, as above
provided, or those hereinafter authorized to determine
the rights of parties to funds paid into court, shall not
delay the sale nor affect any other party whose rights
are not involved in such proceedings.
§ 447. [443.] The proceeds of sale, and the securities
taken by the referees, or any part thereof, shall be dis-
tributed by them to the persons entitled thereto when-
ever the court so directs. But if no such direction be
given, all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into
court or deposited as directed by the court.
§ 448. [444.] When the proceeds of sales of any shares
01' parcel belonging to persons who are parties to the suit,
. . and
who are known, are paid into court, the su1t may be
. . . .
contmued as between such parties for the determination
of their respective claims thereto, which shall be ascer
tained and adjudged by the court. Further testimony
may be taken i11 court, or by a referee, at the discretion
of the court, and the court may, if necessary, require
such parties to present the facts or law in controversy,
by pleading, as in an original suit.
§4~l‘J. [4-15.] All sales of real property made by the
referees shall he made by public auction to the highest
bidder, i11 the 111-.1nner required for the sale of real prop
erty on execution. The notice shall state the terms of
sale, 1111d if the property or any part of it is to be sold
subject to 11 prior estate, charge, or lien, that shall be
stated i11 the notice.

§~11'3t). [l~l(3.] The court shall, iii the order of sale,
direct the terins of credit which may be allowed for the
pn1'c11ase-nioney of any portion of the premises of which
it ntay direct a sale on credit; and for that portion of
which the purcltase-nioney is required by the provisions
liereinafter co11tained,to be invested for the beneﬁt of
unknown owners, infants, parties out of the state.
§—‘i-51. [4+lT.] The referees may take separate mort
gages and other securities for the whole or convenient
portions of the purchase-nioncy of such parts of the
property as are directed by the court to be sold on credit,
iii the 11111110 of the clerk of the court, and his successor
i11 ollice; and for the sltares of any known owner of full
age, in the name of such owner.
§ 45:’. [£148.] When the estate of any tenant for life
or years, i11 any undivided part of the property i11 ques
tio1'1,sl’111ll have been adn1ittcd by the parties, or ascer
tainetl by the court to be existing at the time of the
order of sale, and the person entitled to such estate shall
have been n111.de a party to the suit, such estate may be
1'11‘.-;t..'<et1 oil‘ out of any part of the property, and a sale
rnatle of such parcel, sttbject. to the prior unsold estate of
such lt'llflltt tltt-rein; but if in the _judgment of the court
11 due reg111'd to the lI1it"1‘('>t of all the parties require that
.sucl1 estate be also sold, the sale may be so ordered.
§ 453. [449.] Any person entitled to an estate for life
or years in any undivided part of the property, whose
estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to receive
such sum in gross as may be deemed upon principles of
law applicable to annuities a reasonable satisfaction for
such estate, and which the person so entitled shall con_
sent to accept instead thereof, by an instrument duly
acknowledged or proved in the same manner as deeds
for the purpose of record, and ﬁled with the clerk.
§454. [450.] If such consent be not given, as pro-
vided in the last section, before the report of sale, the
court shall ascertain and determine what proportion of
the proceeds of the sale, after deducting expenses, will
be a just and reasonable sum to be invested for the bene
ﬁt of the person entitled to such estate for life or years,
and shall order the same to be deposited in court for
that purpose.
§455. [451.] The proportion of the proceeds of the
sale to be invested as provided in section 454 [450] shall
be ascertained and determined in the several cases as
follows:—
1. If an estate in dower be included in the order of
sale, its proportion shall be one third of the proceeds of
the sale of the property, or of the sale of the undivided
share in such property upon which the claim of dower
existed;
2. If an estate by the courtesy, or other estate for life
or years, be included in the order of sale, its proportion
shall be the whole proceeds of the sale of the property,
or of the sale of the undivided share thereof in which
such estate may be;—
And in all cases, the proportion of the expenses of the
proceedings shall be deducted from the proceeds of the
sale.
§456. [452.] If the persons entitled to such estate
for life or years be unknown, the court shall provide for
the protection of their rights in the same manner, as far
as may be, as if they were known and had appeared,
§ 457. [453.] In all cases of sales in partition, when
it appears that a married woman has an inchoate right
of dowcr in any of the property sold, or that any person
has a vested or contingent future right or estate therein,
the court shall ascertain and settle the proportional value
of such inchoate, contingent, or vested right or estate,
according to the principles of law applicable to annuities
and survivorship, and shall direct such proportion of
the proceeds of sale to be invested, secured, or paid over
in such manner as to protect the rights and interests of
the parties.

§ 458. [~154.] In all cases of sales of property, the
terms shall be made known at the time; and if the prem
ises consist of distinct farms or lots, they shall be sold
Separately, or otherwise if the'court so directs.
§ -15‘.. [-155.] Neither of the referees, nor any person
for the benefit of either of them, shall be interested in
any purchase; nor shall the guardian of an infant party
be interested in the purchase of any real property, being
the sub_]cct of the suit, except for the benefit of the in
fant. All sales contrary to the provisions of this section
shall be void.
460. [-156.] After completing the sale, the referees
shall report the same to the court, with a description of
the different parcels of land sold to each purchaser, the
name of the purcli-aser, the price paid or secured, the
terms and conditions of the sale, and the securities, if
any, taken. The report shall be filed with the clerk.
461. [-157. The report of sale may be excepted to
by any party entitled t.o a share of the proceeds, in like
manner and with like effect as in ordinary cases. If the
sale be confirmed, the order of confirmation shall direct
the referees to execute conveyances and take securities
pursuant to such sale, which acts they are hereby author
ized to do. Such order shall have the effect to discharge
the property of the estate or interest of every person
mentioned in section 43‘). [42b’], and of tenants for life
or years of the property sold, and shall be binding and
conclusive upon all such persons as if the same were a
decree for the partition of such property, and upon all
persons whomsoever as to the regularity of the proceed-
ings concerning such sale, except as provided in section
459 [455].
§ 462. [458.] When a party entitled to a share of the
property, or an encumbrancer entitled to have his lien
paid out of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees
may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds of the
sale as belongs to him.
§ 463. [459.] When there are proceeds of sale belonging
to an unknown owner, or to a person without the
state who has no legal representative within it, or when
there are proceeds arising from the sale of an estate sub-
ject to the prior estate of a tenant for life or years, which
are paid into court or otherwise deposited by order of the
> court, the same shall be invested in securities on interest
for the beneﬁt of the persons entitled thereto.
§464. [460.] When the security for the proceeds of
sale is taken, or when an investment of any such pro-
. . .
ceeds is made, it shall be done, except as herein other-
Wise provided, in the name of the clerk [of the] court
and his successors in oﬂice, who shall hold the same
for the use and beneﬁt of the parties interested, subject
to the order of the court.
§ 465. [461.] When security is taken by the referees
on a sale, and the parties interested in such security, by
an instrument in writing under their hands delivered to
the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to
which they are respectively entitled, or when shares and
proportions have been previously adjudged by the court,
such securities shall be taken in the names of and pay
able to the parties respectively entitled thereto, and shall
be delivered to such parties upon their receipt therefor.
Such agreement and receipt shall be returned and ﬁled
with the clerk.
§ 466. [462.] The clerk in whose name a security is
. . .
taken, or by whom an mvestment is made, and his suc
cessors in oﬁce, shall receive the interest and principal
as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same as the
court may direct; and shall ﬁle in his oiﬁce all securities
taken, and keep an account in a book provided and kept
for that purpose in the clerk’s ofﬁce, free for inspection
by all persons, of investments and moneys received by
him thereon, and the disposition thereof.
§ 467. [463.] When it appears that partition cannot
be made equal between the parties, according to their
respective rights, without prejudice to the rights and in
terests of some of them, the court may adjudge com
pensation to be made by one party to another, on account
of the inequality of partition; but such compensation
shall not be required to be made to others by owners un
known, nor by infants, unless in case of an infant it
appear that he has personal property sufﬁcient for that
purpose, and that his interest will be promoted thereby.
§468. [464.] When the share of an infant is sold,
the proceeds of the sale may be paid by the referees
making the sale, to his general guardian, or the special
guardian appointed for him in the suit, upon giving
the security required by law or directed by order of the
court.
§469. [465.] The guardian who may be entitled to
the custody and management of the estate of an insane
person, or other person adjudged incapable of conduct
ing his own affairs, whose interest in real property shall
have been sold, may receive, in behalf of such person,
his share of the proceeds of such real property from the
referees, on executing, with suﬁicient sureties, an under
taking, approved by the judge of the court, that he will
faithfully discharge the trust reposed in him, and will
render a true and just account to the person entitled, or
to his legal representative.
§ 470. [466.] The general guardian of an infant, and
the guardian entitled to the custody and management of
the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged
incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is inter
ested in real estate held in common, or in any other
manner, so as to authorize his being made a party to an
action for the partition thereof, may consent to a partition
without suit, and agree upon the share to be set off to
such infant or other person entitled, and may execute a
release in his behalf to the owners of the shares of the
parts to which they may respectively be entitled, upon
an order of the court.

§ 471. [467.] The costs of partition, including fees of
referees and other disbursements, shall be paid by the
parties respectively entitled to share in the lands divided,
in proportion to their respective interests therein, and
may be included and speciﬁed in the decree. In that
case, they shall be a lien on the several shares, and the
decree may be enforced by execution against the parties
separately. When, however, a litigation arises between
some of the parties only, the court may require the ex
pense of such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto,
or any of them.
§4T‘2. [4t38.] The provisions of title VI. of chapter
IV. of this code shall apply to suits by and against exec
utors and administrators, except as in this title other
wise or specially provided. Sections 369 [365] 370
[£366], and 371 [367] of such title shall not so apply. All
causes of suit by one person against another, however
arising, survive to the personal representatives of the
former and against the personal representatives of the
latter. Wlien the cause of suit survives, herein pro
vided, the executors or administrators may maintain a
suit in equity thereon against the party against whom
the cause of suit accrued, or after his death against his
personal representatives.

§ 471.[-1160.] The next of kin of a deceased person
are liable to a suit in equity by a creditor of the estate
to 1‘e(-over the distributive shares received out of such
estate, or to so much thereof as may be nicressary to
satisfy his debt. The suit may be against all of the next
of kin jointly or against any one or more of them sever
allv.

§ 474. [‘l7().] In such suit, the plaintiff may recover
the value of all the assets received by all the defendants
in the suit if necessary to satisfy his debt; and the
amount of the recovery shall be apportioned among the
defendants, in proportion to the value of the assets re
ceived by each; and no allowance or deduction shall be
made from such amount on account of there being other
next of kin to xvhom assets have also been delivered.
§ 475. [471.] Any one of the next of kin against
whom a recovery is had pursuant to section 474 [470]
may maintain a suit against all the other next of kin of
the deceased person, to whom any such assets have been
delivered jointly, or against any of them separately, for
a just and equal contribution, and may recover of each
defendant such amount as shall be in the same propor
tion to the whole sum collected of the plaintiif as the
value of the assets delivered to such defendant bore to
the value of all the assets delivered to all the next of kin
of the deceased.
§476. [472.] Legatees are liable to a suit in equity
by a creditor of the testator to recover the value of any
legacy received by them. The suit may be maintained
against_all the legatees jointly or against any one or
more of them severally. In such suit the plaintiﬂ‘ shall
not recover unless he shows,—
1. That no assets were delivered by the executor or
administrator of the testator to his next of kin; or,
2. That the value of such assets has been recovered by
some other creditor;
3. That such assets are not suﬁicient to satisfy the
‘demand of the plaintiff.
And in the last case he shall recover only the deﬁciency.
The whole amount which the plaintiff shall recover shall
be apportioned among all the legatees of the testator, in
proportion to the value of their legacies respectively, and
his proportion shall only be recovered of each legatee.
§ 477. [473.] In a suit against several next of kin or o
legatees jointly, for assets delivered to them, if a recov- M
ery be had against such next of kin or legatees, the cost $
of such suit shall be apportioned among the several
defendants, in proportion to the amount recovered
against each of them.
§ 478. [474.] A decree against several next of kin or 0
legatees shall be satisﬁed as to any one of them by the M
payment or satisfaction of the amount recovered against g
such defendant. 

§ 479. [-175.] Ileirs and devisees are liable to a suit
by a creditor of a deceased person to recover the debt of
their ancestor or testator to the extent of the value of
any real property inherited by or devised to them. If
such suit be against the heirs, all the heirs who are liable
shall be made parties to the suit.
,8 -180. [~lT6.] But the heirs are not liable for the debt,
unless it appear that the personal assets of the deceased
were insullieient to discharge it, or that after due pro
ceedings the creditor has been unable to collect the debt
fro1n the personal representatives of the deceased, or
from his next of kin or lcgatees. If the personal assets
were sntlicient to pay a part of the debt, or in case a
part thereof shall have been collected, the heirs of such
deceased person are liable for the residue. _
_§1-.181. [471] Section 480 [476] shall not affect the
liability of heirs for a debt of their ancestor, where such
debt was, by his will, expressly charged exclusively on
the real property descended to such heirs, or where such
debt is by the will expressly directed to be paid out of
the real property descended before resorting to the per
sonal property.
§ 482. [478.] In cases where the next of kin, legatees,
heirs, and devisees are liable for the debts of their an
cestors, as herein provided, they shall be liable therefor,
without other priority or preference than such ancestors
would be. The word “debt,” as used in this title, shall be
construed to include all claims for the payment of money,
whether liquidated or otherwise, which survive against
the personal representatives of the deceased, as provided
in section 472 HOS].
[-179.] A decree against an heir or devisee, on
account of the debt of his ancestor or testator, may be
enforced by execution against the real property shown
to have descended to the heir or devisee, and not other
wise. Such decree shall have preference as a lien on
such real property to any judgment or decree obtained
against such heir or devisee on account of a debt or demand
due in his own right.
§484. [480.] When it appears in the suit, that before
the commencement thereof the heir ordevisee has
aliened the real property descended to him, or any part
thereof, he shall be personally liable for the value of the
property so aliened, and a decree may be given against
him therefor, to be enforced by execution, as if the de
cree were for his own debt. No real property aliened in
good faith and for a valuable consideration by an heir
or devisee before suit commenced against him is liable
to an execution for the debt of his ancestor or testator,
or in any manner affected by a decree therefor against
such heir or devisee.
§ 485. [481.] In a suit against several heirs jointly,
or several devisees jointly, the amount which the plain-
tiﬁ‘ recovers must be apportioned among all the heirs of
the ancestor or devisees of the testator, in proportion to
the value of the real property descended or devised, and
such proportion only can be recovered of each heir or
devisee.
§ 486. [482.] A devisee shall not be liable to the creditor
of his testator unless it appear that the personal
assets of the testator and the real property descended to
his heirs were insufficient to discharge the debt, or un-
less it appear that after due proceedings the creditor has
been unable to recover the debt or any part thereof from
the personal representatives of the testator, or from his
next of kin, legatees, or heirs.
§ 487. [483.] In either of the cases speciﬁed in section
486 [482] the amount of the deﬁciency of the personal
assets, and of the real property descended, to satisfy the
debt of the plaintiff, or the amount which such plaintiﬁ
may have failed to recover from the personal representa
tives of the testator, his next of kin, legatees, and heirs,
may be recovered of the devisees of such testator, to the
extent of the value of the real property devised to them
respectively.

§4SS. [4S4.] Sections 486 [482] and 487 [483] shall
not affect the liability of devisees for adebt of their
testator where such debt was by his will expressly
charged exclusively upon the real property devised, or
by the terms of the will made payable by the devisee, or
out of the real property devised, before resorting to the
personal property or to any other real property descended
or devised.

§4S9. [/185.] A husband or wife may maintain a
suit against the other for dissolution of the marriage
contract, or to have the same declared void, as provided
in this title.
§ 490. [486.] All marriages which are prohibited by
law, on account of consanguinity between the parties, or
on account of either of them having a former husband
or wife then living, or on account of either of them be
ing of one fourth or more of negro blood, shall, if
solemnizcd within this state, be absolutely void.
Void marriages generally: See the chapter on marriages, post, in the
Miscellaneous Laws.
§ 491. [4S7.] When either of the parties to a marriage
shall be incapable of making such contract or assenting
thereto, for Want of legal age or suﬂicient understand
-ing, or when the consent of either party shall be obtained
by force or fraud, such marriage shall be void, from the
time it is so declared by the decree of a court having
jurisdiction thereof.
Voidable marriages generally: See the chat ter on marria es post,
in the Miscellaneous Laws. P g ,
§ 492. [488.] A marriage may be declared void from
the beginning, at the suit of either party, for any of the
causes speciﬁed in section 490 [486], and whether so
declared or not shall be deemed and held to be void in
any action, suit, or proceeding whatever in which the
same may come in question; but a marriage once declared
to be valid by the decree of a court having jurisdiction
thereof, in a suit for that purpose, cannot afterwards be
questioned for the same cause directly or otherwise.

§ 493. [4S9.] A marriage shall not be declared void
‘for any of the causes speciﬁed in section 491 [487] ex
cept at the suit or claim of the party laboring under the
‘ disability, or upon whom the force or fraud was imposed
or practiced; nor at the suit or claim of such party if it
appears that the parties freely cohabited together as hus
band and wife after the party had arrived at legal age,
acquired sutﬁcient understanding, been restored to rea
son, freed from the force, or discovered the fraud, as the
case may he.
~l‘J~1. [-190.] When either husband or wife shall
claim or pretend that the marriage is void or voidable,
as provided in sections 490 [486] and 491 [487], the same
may he declared valid and lawful at the suit of the other;
and in such suit the court shall have power,ifthe pleadings
and proofs authorize it, to declare such marriage void from
the heginning or from the time of the decree, or that it
is valid and lawt'ul, and hinding on the parties thereto.
3'-195. [l‘Jl.] The dissolution of the marriage contract
may he declared at the suit or the claim of the injured
party in either of the following causes:—
1. linpoteney existing at the time of the marriage and
continuing to the commencement of the suit;
‘.3. Adultery;
3. ()i,i1i\'it'ti<)i1 of‘ felony;
4. llahitual gross drunkenness contracted since mar
riage and continuing for one year prior to the commence
ment of the suit:
5. \Villt'ul desertion for the period of one year;
6. Cruel and inhuman treatment or personal indig
nities rendering life hurdensomc.1

§ 493.[4‘.l2.]
When it marriage has been solemnized
in this state, ti suit 111:1)‘ he 1llt1ll1lttll1(3tl to declare it void
it‘ the 1ihiintill' is an iiilizihitunt of the state at the com
1neneement of the suit. If l.‘l10111t1I‘I‘lt1_f:‘__'(*) has not been
soh-innizt-il in this state, such suit eon only he maintained
wln-ii hoth the pnrties are inhabitants thereof at the com
iiit-1i<:einent of the suit, and the plaintiff for one year
prior thereto.
§ -197. [-193.] In at suit for the dissolution of the mar
riage (-oiitruet, the pluintitf tliert-in must be en inhabi
tant of the stuto nt the eoinineneeinent of the suit, and
for one §'t'1ll‘ prior thereto; which residence shall be suf
ll(‘lt‘Ill to _L‘§l\’O tlie('Ot11‘t juristlietion, without regard to
the pl-tiee \\'l1("l‘0 the 1l1tlI‘l‘lt1g0 was solemnized, or the
Cause of suit tirose. 

§-1%. [-10-1.] In :1 suit for the dissolution of the
m;ii‘1'i;i;_§e (,‘Hlll1‘£'t('l on ut-eount of adultery, the defendant
inuy u<l1nit the u<lul'ter_y, and Sl10\V in bar of the suit,
t‘lllN’I‘,——
1. ‘Tllttl, tlu: out was eommitted hy the procurement or
with the (‘t>lllll\';tllf't‘ of the pliiiiitilf; or,
L’. That the tlt‘l lms heen (.-‘\'press‘l.\f forgiven, or im
]»lie~ll_3'so, hy the \'olunt-ury eolinhitntion of the parties
ulh-1' l\'iio\\'lwl;ge t'lie1'<-<'>l’; or,
Ii. That lllt‘IllIlll1llllf.ll1lS heen giiilty of adultery also
uitliotit the proeureinent or CO1l1ll\'t1llCG of the defendant,
and not forgiven as provided in subdivision 2 of this
section; or, ‘
4. That the suit has not been commenced within one
year after the discovery of the act by the plaintiff. When
the suit is for any of the causes speciﬁed in subdivisions
3, 4, 5, or 6 of section 495 [491], the defendant may ad
mit the charge, and show in bar of the suit that the act
was committed by the procurement of the plaintiff, or
that it has been expressly forgiven, and in case the suit
is founded on subdivision 3 of said section 495 [491],
the defendant may also show in bar thereof that the
suit was not prosecuted within one year after the same
Occurred to the plaintiff.‘

§ 499. [495.] Whenever a marriage shall be declared
void or dissolved, the party at whose prayer such decree
shall be made shall in all cases be entitled to the undi-
vided one-third part in his or her individual right in fee
of the whole of the real estate owned by the other at the
time of such decree, in addition to the further decree for
maintenance provided for in section 501 [497]; and it
shall he the duty of the court in all such cases to enter a
decree in accordance Witl1 this provision.

§ 5110. 5100./\ilc1' the coinmencemelit of a suit, and
l,>cf'ore 11 decree therein, the court or judge thereof may,
in its discretion, provide by order as folloWs:—
1. That the l111.<l->;111(l pay, or secure to be paid, to the
clerk of the court, sucli an aniount of money as may be
11ccess;11~y to enable the wife to prosecute or defend the
suit, as the case 1'1‘1:1)' he:
‘2. For the cure, ciistmly, and maintcuaiice of the minor
children of the 11’]t1I‘I‘l2l§_‘f(‘, du1'1'11g the peiidency of the suit;
3. For the frt-c<lo1'1'1 of the wife from the control of the
l111sl)-.111<,l <l111‘i11gr the pr-11(l1-ncy of the suit.
§ 501. [497 .] Whenever a marriage shall be declared
void or dissolved, the court shall have power _to further
decree as follows:—
1. For the future care and custody of the minor chil
dren of the marriage, as it may deem just and proper,
having due regard to the age and sex of such children,
and unless otherwise manifestly improper, giving the
preference to the party not in fault;
2. For the recovery of the party in fault, and not
allowed the care and custody of such children, such an
amount of money, in gross or in installments, as may be
just and proper for such party to contribute towards the
nurture and education thereof;
3. For the recovery of the party in fault such an
amount of money, in gross or in installments, as may be
just and proper for such party to contribute to the main
tenance of the other; '
4. For the delivery to the wife, when she is not theparty
in fault, of her personal property in the possession or con
trol of the husband at the time of giving the decree;
5. For the appointment of one or more trustees to
collect, receive, expend, manage, or invest, in such man
ner as the court shall direct, any sum of money decreed
for the maintenance of the wife or the nurture and edu
cation of minor children committed to her care and
custody;
6. To change the name of the wife, when she is not
the party in fault.

§ 502. [498.] At any time after a decree is given, the
court or judge thereof, upon the motion of either party,
shall have power to set aside, alter, or modify so much of
the decree as may provide for the appointment of trus
tees for the care and custody of the minor children, or
the nurture and education thereof, or the maintenance of
either party to the suit.
§503. [499.] A decree declaring a marriage void or
dissolved at the suit or claim of either party shall have
the effect to terminate such marriage as to both parties,
except that neither party shall be capable of contracting
marriage with a third person, and if he or she does so
contract, shall be liable therefor as if such decree had
not been given, until the suit has been heard and deter
mined on appeal, and if no appeal be taken, the expiration
of the period allowed by this code to take such appeal.
§ 504. [500.] Any person in possession, by himself
or his tenant, of real property, may maintain a suit in
equity against another who claims an estate or interest
therein adverse to him, for the purpose of determining
such claim, estate, or interest.

§505. [501.] Whenever any person claims any real
- property as a donee of the United States, by virtue of a
settlement thereon, under the act of Congress approved
September 27, 1850, commonly called the donation law,
or the acts amendatory thereof, and the patent for such
property, or any portion thereof, shall have wrongfully
issued to another, such person may maintain a suit in
equity against the person to whom the patent may issue,
or those claiming under him, for the purpose of having
such patent canceled, and the estate or interest of the
plaintiff in the property ascertained and established. In
such suit, the party entitled to and making the settle
ment under such acts of Congress, and complying with
the subsequent conditioris thereby required, shall be
taken and deemed to have a legal estate in fee in the
property, although the patent therefor has issued to
another.

§ 506. In any case where any_dispute or controversy
exists, or may hereafter arise, between two or more owners
of adjacent or contiguous lands in this state, concerning
the boundary lines thereof, or the location of the line or
lines dividing such lands, either party, or any party to
such dispute or controversy, may bring and maintain a
suit in equity in the circuit court of this state in the
county where such lands, or some part thereof, are situ
ated, for the purpose of having such controversy or dis
pute determined, and such boundary line or lines, or
dividing lines, ascertained and marked by proper monu
ments, upon the ground where such line or lines may be
ascertained to be, and established in such suit.
In cﬂect from date of approval. ‘
\
§ 507. The complaint in such suit shall be suﬁicient,
if it appears therefrom that the plaintiff and defendant
or defendants are owners of adjacent lands, some part
of which is in the county in which said suit is brought;
that there is a controversy or dispute between the parties
concerning their boundary or dividing line or lines, and
it shall not be necessary to set forth the nature of such
dispute or controversy further than that the plaintiff
shall describe the boundary or dividing line as he shall
claim it to be. The defendant in his answer shall set
forth the nature of his claim, with reference to the loca
tion of the line in controversy.
§ 508. The mode of proceeding under this act shall be
analogous to that of other suits in equity. Provided, that
at the time of entering the decree ﬁxing the true location
of the disputed boundary or dividing line the court shall
appoint three disinterested commissioners, one of whom
shall be a practical surveyor, and shall direct said com
missioners to go upon the lands of the parties, and estab
lish and mark out upon the grounds, by proper marks
and monuments, the boundary or dividing line as ascer
tained and determined by the court in its decree.
§ 509. Before entering upon the discharge of their
duties, the said commissioners shall make and ﬁle their
oath in writing, to faithfully and impartially perform
their duties as such commissioners, and after designat
ing the said line by proper marks and monuments, they
shall ﬁle, in said court and cause, a report of their do
ings as such commissioners, and the same shall be, when
approved or conﬁrmed by the court, a part of the judg
ment roll in said cause.
§ 510. The report of the commissioners may be con
ﬁrmed by the court, upon written motion of either party
to such suit, whenever it shall appear to the court that
said motion was served upon the adverse party two days
before the presentation thereof, and that no exceptions
have been ﬁled to said report within two days after said
service. If exceptions are ﬁled as aforesaid, to said
report, said exceptions may be heard with the motion to
conﬁrm, and the court may conﬁrm, modify, or set aside
said report, as shall seem just, and in the latter case may
appoint a new commission or refer the matter to the
same commissioners, with appropriate instructions.
§511. [502-.] The provisions of this ch
apply to the proceedings in both actions ant
, . . .
§512. [503.] If an original paper or plead
cept as herein otherwise or specially provided
or withheld by any person, the court or jtlt
may order a copy thereof to be ﬁled and used
the original.
§515. [506.] No natural person is subject to the
jurisdiction of a court of this state, unless he appear in
the court, or be found within the state, or be a resident
thereof, or have property therein; and in the last case
only to the extent of such property at the time the ju
risdiction attached. But this section is not to be con
strued to limit the power of the courts of this state to
declare a marriage void, or a dissolution thereof, when
the defendant is a non-resident of the state, in the cases
provided for in title VII. of chapter V.
Jurisdiction obtained by appear service of rocess, §§ 55 [54] andonce: See § 62 [61], ante; on ap- [55]; juris 1ction on service by pub
pearance in pursuance of personal lication, and over property, § 56 [55].
§ 516. [507.] No corporation is subject to the juris
diction of a court of this state, unless it appear in the
court, or have been created by or under the laws of this
state, or have an agency established therein for the trans
action of some portion of its business, or have property
therein; and in the last case only to the extent of such
property at the time the jurisdiction attached.
Jurisdiction over corporations: See the note to § 55 [54], ante, pp.
179, 180.
§ 517. [508.] When the court has jurisdiction of the
parties, it may exercise it in respect to any cause of
action or suit, wherever arising, except for the speciﬁc
recovery of real property situated without this state, or
for injury thereto.
§ 518. [509.] Whenever there is more than one ref
eree, all must meet, but a majority of them may do any
act which might be done by all, and whenever any
authority is conferred on three or more persons, it may
be exercised by a majority of them, upon the meeting of
-all, unless expressly otherwise provided.
§ 519. |_510.] The time within which an act is to be
done, as provided in this code, shall be computed by
excluding the ﬁrst day and including the last, unless the
last day fall upon a Sunday, Christmas, or other non
judicial day, in which case the last day shall also be ex
cluded. The time for the publication of legal notices
shall be computed so as to exclude the ﬁrst day of pub
lication, and to include the day on which the net or event
of which notice is given is to happen, or which com
pletes the full period required for publication.
§ 520. [511.] The defendant may, at any time before
trial, serve upon the plaintiff an offer to allow judgment
or decree to be given against him for the sum, or the
property, or to the effect therein speciﬁed. If the plain
tiﬂ‘ accept the offer, he shall by himself or attorney in
dorse such acceptance thereon, and ﬁle the same with
the clerk before trial, and within three days from the
time it was served upon him; and thereupon judgment
or decree shall be given accordingly, as in case of a con
fession. If the offer be not accepted and ﬁled within
the time prescribed, it shall be deemed withdrawn, and
shall not be given in evidence on the trial; and if the
plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment or de
cree, he shall not recover costs, but the defendant shall
recover of him costs and disbursements from the time
of the service of the offer.
§ 521. [512.] The court, or judge thereof, while an
action or suit is pending, may order either party to give
the other, within a speciﬁed time, an inspection and
copy, or permission to take a copy, of any book, docu
ment, or paper in his possession, or under his control,
containing evidence or matters relating to the merits of
the action or suit, or the defense therein. If obedience
to the order be neglected or refused, the court may ex
clude the book, document, or paper from being given in
evidence, or if wanted as evidence by the party apply
ing therefor, may direct the jury to presume it to be
such as he alleges it to be; and the court may also pun
ish the party so neglecting or refusing as for a contempt.
This section is not to be construed to prevent a party
from compelling another to produce books, documents,
or papers, when he is examined as a witness.
§ 522. [513.] Every direction of a court orjudge made
or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment or
decree, is denominated an order. An application for an
order is a motion.
§ 523. [5l4.] Motions shall be made to the court or
judge as provided in other parts of this code. They shall
be made within the circuit where the action or suit is
triable, except when made to a judge of the court before
whom the action is pending, and without notice, in which
be made by such judge in any part of/
case an order may
the state. ' /
A/\
§ 524. [515.] When a notice of a motion is necessary,
it shall be served ten days before the time appointed for
the hearing; but the court, or judge thereof, may prescribe,
by order indorsed upon the notice, a shorter time. No-l
tics of a motion is not necessary except when this code
requires it, or when directed by the court or judge in pur
suance thereof.
§ 525. [889.] If an application for an order, made to
a judge of the court in which the action, suit, or proceed
ing is pending, be refused in whole or in part, or be
granted conditionally, no subsequent application for the
same order shall be made to any other judge. A viola
tion of this section is punishable as a contempt, and an
order made contrary thereto may be revoked by the judge
who made it, or vacated by the court, or ‘judge thereof,
in which the action, suit, or proceeding is pending.
§ 526. [516.] Notices shall be in writing, and notices
and other papers shall be served on the party or attorney
in the manner prescribed in this title, where not otherwise
provided by this code.
§ 527. [517.] The service or deposit in the post
ofﬁce, when served by mail, may be made by any person
other than the party himself. The proof of service shall
be the same as the proof of service of a summons, and
shall be returned with the original notice, or other paper
of which service is made, at the time and place therein
prescribed for the hearing or other proceeding to be had
thereon. The service may be personal, by delivery of a
copy of the notice or other paper to the party or attorney
on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be
as follows:—
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his
absence from his ofﬁce by leaving the copy with his clerk
therein, or with a person having charge thereof; or when
there is no person in the ofﬁce, by leaving it between the
hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening in
a conspicuous place in the ofﬁce, or if it be not open to
admit of such service, then by leaving it at the attorney’s
residence with some person of suitable age and discre
tion;
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leavmg the
copy at his residence between the hours of six‘ in the
morning and nine in the evening with some person of
suitable age and discretion.
§ 528. [518.] Service by mail may be made, when
the person for whom the service is made, and the person
on whom it is to be made, reside in different places, be
tween which there is a communication by mail, adding
one day to the time of service for every ﬁfty miles of
distance between the place of deposit and the place of
address.
§529. [519.] In case of service by mail, the copy
must be deposited in the post-oﬁice, addressed to the
person on whom it is to be served, at his place of resi
dence, and the postage paid. The service shall be deemed
to be made on the ﬁrst day after the deposit in the post
ofﬁce that the mail leaves the place of deposit for the
place of the address, and not otherwise.
See the preceding section.
§530. [520.] A defendant appears in an action or
. . . .
suit when he answers, demurs, or gives the pla1nt1ﬂ'
written notice of his appearance, and until he does so
appear he shall not be heard in such action or suit, or
in any'proceeding pertaining thereto, except the giving
of the undertakings allowed to the defendant in the pro
visional remedies of arrest, attachment, and the delivery
of personal property. When‘the defendant has not ap
peared, notice of a motion or other proceeding need not
be served upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want
of bail, or unless directed by the court, or judge thereof,
in pursuance of this code. 
§ 531. [521.] When a party is absent from the state,
and has no attorney in the action or suit, service mayl
be made by mail, if his residence be known; if not known,
on the clerk for him. When a party, whether absent or
. - .
not from the state, has an attorney in the action or suit,
service of notice or other papers shall be made upon the
attorney, if he reside in the county where the action or
suit is pending, instead of the party, and not other
wise.
§ 532. [522.] The foregoing provisions do not apply
to the service of a summons or other process, nor so
much thereof as allows service to be made of any notice
or other paper to bring a party into contempt, otherwise
than upon such party personally.
§533. [523.] A notice or other paper is valid and
effectual, although defective either in respect to the title
of the action or suit in which it is made, or the name of
the court or the parties, if it intelligibly refer to such
action or suit.
§534. [£324.] All undertakings,aﬁidavits, or otherpapers
required by or provided for in this code shall be ﬁled
with the clerk, except when this code otherwise specially
provides. A pleading or paper shall be ﬁled by deliver
ing the same to the clerk at his office, who shall indorse
upon it the day of the month and the year, and subscribe
his name thereto. The clerk shall not be required to
receive for ﬁling any paper unless the name of the
court, the title of the cause and the paper, and the
names of the parties, and the attorney, if there be one,
is intclligibly indorsed on the back of it, nor unless
the contents thereof can be read by a person of ordi
nary skill.
§ 535. [525] A judgment or decree may be reviewed
as prescribed in this title, and not otherwise. An order
atfecting a substantial right, and which in effect deter
mines the action or suit so as to prevent a judgment or
decree therein, or a ﬁnal order affecting a substantial
right, and made in a proceeding after judgment or
decree, for the purpose of being reviewed, shall be
deemed a judgment or decree.

§ 536. [526.] Any party to a judgment or decree
other than a judgment or decree given by confession, or
for want of an answer, may appeal therefrom. The
party appealing is known as the appellant, and the ad
verse party as the respondent; but the title of the action
or suit is not changed in consequence of the appeal.
537. [527.] An appeal shall be taken and perfected in
the manner prescribed in this section, and not otherwise.
1. The appellant shall cause a notice to be served on
the adverse party, and ﬁle the original, with proof of
service indorsed thereon, with the clerk where the judg
ment or decree is entered. Such notice shall state that
the appellant appeals from the judgment or decree of the
circuit court, or some speciﬁed part thereof, and in case
the judgment be one rendered in an action at law, shall
specify the grounds of error, with reasonable certainty,
upon which the appellant intends to rely upon the ap
peal; but in case the appeal be from a. decree, it shall
not be necessary to specify any such grounds of error.
2. \Vithin ten days from the service of notice of the
appeal, the appellant shall ﬁle with the clerk an under
taking as hereinafter provided. Within ﬁve days there
after, the adverse party shall except to the suﬁiciency of
the sureties in the undertaking, or he shall be deemed
to have waived his right thereto.
3. The qualiﬁcations of sureties, in an undertaking on
an appeal, shall be the same as in bail on arrest, and if
excepted to, they shall justify in like manner.
4. From the expiration of the time allow
to the snreties in the undertaking, or from 1
_ _ .
tron thereof, if excepted to, the appeal shal
perfected. When a party in good faith give
of an appeal from a judgment or decree, an
omits, through mistake, to do any other :11
the ﬁling of an undertaking or other act as
this section, necessary to perfect the appea
proceedings, the court or judge thereof, or 1
court, may permit an amendment, or per
such act, on such terms as may be just.
5. An appeal to the supreme court shall
serving and filing the notice of appeal withir
from the entry of the judgment or decree ap
or to the circuit court within thirty day:
entry, and not otherwise.
§ 538. [528.] The undertaking of the appellant shall
be given with one or more sureties, to the effect that the
appellant will pay all damages, costs, and disbursements
which may be awarded against him on the appeal; but
such undertaking does not stay the proceedings, unless
the undertaking further provides to the effect follow
mg:—
1. If the judgment or decree appealed from be for the
recovery of money, or of personal property; or the value
thereof, that if the same or any part thereof be afﬁrmed,
the appellant will satisfy it so far as aﬁirmed;
2. If the judgment or decree appealed from be for the
recovery of the possession of real property, for a partition
thereof, or the foreclosure of a lien thereon, that during
the possession of suohproperty by the appellant he will
not commit, or suffer to be committed, any
on, and that if such judgment or decree
thereof be afﬁrmed, the appellant Wlll pay
the use and occupation of such property, s
ﬁrmed, from the time of the appeal until th
the possession thereof, not exceeding a s
speciﬁed, to be ascertained and ﬁxed by t
judge thereof;
3. If the decree appealed from require th
delivery of any personal property, unless th
quired to be transferred or delivered be l
court, or placed in the custody of such oﬁice
as the court may appoint, that the appellal
the decree of the appellate court. The amc
undertaking shall be speciﬁed therein, and
the court or judge thereof;
4. When the decree appealed from is f
closure of a lien, and also against the pe
amount of the debt secured thereby, the
shall also be to the effect that the appellant
portion of such decree remaining unsatisﬁ
sale of the property upon which the lien is 1
When the decree appealed from requires t
of a conveyance or other instrument, execi
decree is not stayed by the appeal, unless th
is executed and deposited with the clerk
time allowed to ﬁle the undertaking, to abié
of the appellate court.

§ 539. [529.] When the proceedings a
perishable property has been seized to sati
the judgment or decree, or has been direct
thereby, the court or judge thereof may on
erty to be sold as if the proceedings were no
the proceeds thereof to be deposited or inve
the decision of the appellate court. The co
thereof, in its discretion, may dispense witl:
further undertaking required by subdivisior
4 of section 538 [528], when the appellant is
administrator, trustee, or other person at
other’s right. In cases not provided for in
visions, when an appeal is perfected, with an
for the appeal only, proceedings shall be sta
furthdr undertaking therefor had been give]
§ 540. [530.] If the judgment or deci
given in an action or suit upon a contract, I]
ing an appeal and undertaking for the stat:
ings, the respondent may proceed to e
judgment or decree, if within ten days fr
the appeal is perfected he ﬁled with the '
dertaking, with one or more sureties, to tl
if the judgment or decree be reversed or
respondent willlmake such restitution as
court may direct. Such undertaking may be excepted
to by the appellant in like manner and with like effect
as the undertaking of an appellant, and the sureties
therein shall have the same qualiﬁcations.
§541. [53l.j Upon the appeal being perfected, the
applicant [appellant] must, by the second day of the next
regular term of the appellate court thereafter, ﬁle with
the clerk of such court the transcript of the cause, as pro
vided in this section, and thereafter the appellate court
has jurisdiction of the cause, and not otherwise.
1. The transcript is a copy, certiﬁed by the clerk, of the
roll, or ﬁnal record, or the pleadings, orders, papers, and
journal entries that constitute such roll or record, to
gether with a copy of the notice of appeal, and any order
enlarging the time to ﬁle the transcript, and a certiﬁcate
of the ﬁling of the undertaking, whether by the appel
lant or respondent, the names of the suretics therein, the
amount thereof, if the same is speciﬁed, and if given by
the appellant, whether the undertaking is given for
appeal only, or a stay of proceedings also.
2. If the appeal is from a decree in a suit which has
been tried by the court pursuant to section 1 of this act,
the clerk shall deliver the original statement of excep
tions, if there be any, as provided in section 397 [393] of
this code, together with the transcript, to the appellant,
taking therefor his receipt in duplieate,—one of which
said clerk shall file in his oﬂice, and deliver the other to
the respondent when so requested. If the appeal is from
a decree in a suit where the cause has not been tried be
fore the court pursuant to section 1 of this act, and the
testimony has been reduced to writing, the clerk shall
attach together the depositions and other papers in his
office containing the evidence heard or offered on the
trial in the court below, and append thereto his certiﬁ
cate to that effect, and deliver them to the appellant with
the transcript, taking therefor his receipt in duplicate,-—
one of which he shall ﬁle in his oﬁice, and deliver the
other to the respondent when so required.
For the purpose of acquiring jurisdiction
late court, such evidence shall be deemed
transcript, and shall be ﬁled therewith for t
acquiring jurisdiction by the appellate con:
ment of exceptions shall be deemed a par
script, and shall be ﬁled therewith.
In all other respects an appeal in a suit i
be taken and perfected the same as an acti
cept that it shall not be necessary to specify
of appeal the grounds of error upon which
intends to rely in the appellate court.
3. If the transcript is not ﬁled with
court within the time provided, the app
deemed abandoned, and the effect thereo
but the court of [or] judge thereof may, u]
the respondent, and such terms as may be,
enlarge the time for ﬁling the same; but sm
be made within the time allowed to ﬁle tl
and shall not extend it beyond the term of
court next following the appeal.
4. If the appeal be abandoned as provi
vision 3 of this section, thereafter the jud
cree, so ‘far as it is for the recovery of m
enforced against the sureties ‘in the undo
stay of proceedings as if they were parties
ment or decree.

§542. [532.] When it appears by aﬂidavit to the
satisfaction of the court that the transcript is incomplete
in any particular substantially affecting the merits of
the judgment or decree appealed from, on motion of the
respondent the court shall make a rule upon the clerk
of the court below, requiring him to certify as to such
alleged omission, and if true, to transmit to the appellate
court a certiﬁed copy of the pleading, entry, order, or
other paper omitted in the
transcript; or, in such case,
the respondent may move to dismiss the appeal, and the
court shall allow such motion unless, on the cross-motion
of the appellant, it makes a rule upon the clerk concern
ing such omission, as provided in this sectioi
terms as may be just. At any time before
or trial, the court, on motion of the appella
miss the appeal; and thereupon the court
the judgment or decree appealed from as
course.
Lost papers. — In case of lost in a transcript: W01,
papers, copies may supply their place 73; and see § 512 [50
§543. [533.] Upon an appeal from a _‘
decree, where the suit has been tried as p
section 1, the same shall be reviewed only as
of law appearing upon the transcript and s]
bill of exceptions, and shall be reversed or n
for errors substantially affecting the rights <
lant; but upon an appeal from the judgmen
court or justice’s court, the action shall be
upon substantially the issues tried in the
And upon an appeal from a decree given 1
where the testimony has been reduced to
suit shall be tried anew upon the transcript :
accompanying it.
§54~l. [534.] Upon an appeal, the appellate court
may aﬁirm, reverse, or modify the judgment or decree
appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice,
and not otherwise, as to any or all of the parties joining
in the appeal, and may include in such decision any or
all of the parties not joining in the appeal, except a co
defendaut of the appellant against whom a several judg
ment or decree might have been given in the court
below; and may, if necessary and proper, order a new
trial.

§545. [£335.] Upon an appeal, the appellate court
may review any intermediate order involving the merits,
or necessarily alfccting the judgment or decree appealed
from; and when it reverses or modiﬁes such judgment
or decree, may direct complete restitution of all property
and rights lost thereby.

§ 546. [£536.] The decision of the appellate court
shall be given and enforced as provided in this section.
1. Upon an appeal to the supreme court, its decisions
shall be entered in the journal, and the c:
by mandate to the court below for furthe1
as therein directed. If a new trial be orde:
receipt of the mandate by the clerk of the
the decision and order shall be entered in
and thereafter the-cause shall be deemed
for trial in such court, according to the din
‘appellate court.
. If a new trial is not ordered, upon t
the mandate by such clerk, a judgment or
be entered in the journal and docketed in
the direction of the appellate court, in like
with like effect as if the same was given in
low.
3. Upon an appeal to the circuit court, ti
proceeding thereafter is the same as if the
had been commenced in such court; but if
from a decree of the county court, the a;
may give a ﬁnal decree in the cause or mat
forced as a decree of such court, or such 6
be proper, and direct that the cause or 1
mitted to the court below for further p1
accordance therewith.
4. If judgment or decree be given agai1
lant, it shall be entered against his suretie
manner and with like effect, according to tl
extent of their undertaking. An appeal 5
charge the lieu of a judgment or decree, ar
same be reversed, the lien thereof shall bl
continue in the aﬂirmed or modiﬁed judgm
given on appeal, from the time of the entr;
ing of the same in the court below.
§ 547. [531] Whenever ajudgment or decree is af
ﬁrmecl on appeal, and the same be for recovery of money
or personal property, or the value thereof, the judgment
or decree shall be given for ten per centum on the
amount thereof, for damages for the delay, unless it ap
pear evident to the appellate court that there was proba
ble cause for taking the appeal.
§ 548. [538.] The measure and mode
tion of attorneys shall be left to the agreem(
. . . _
or implied, of the parties, but there may 1
the prevailing party in the judgment or 6
sums by way of indemnity for his attorney
taining the action or suit, or defense there
lowances are termed costs.
§ 549. [539.] Costs are allowed of course to the plain-
tiff upon a judgment in his favor in the following cases:—
1. In an action for the recovery of the possession of;*)
real property, or where a claim of title or interest in
real property, or right to the possession thereof, arises
upon the pleadings, or is certiﬁed by the court to have
come in question upon the trial;
2. In actions for ﬁnes and forfeitures, and the actions
provided for in titles IV. and V. of chapter IV. of this
code;
3. In an action involving an open mutual account,
where it appears to the satisfaction of the court that the
sum total of such accounts of both parties exceeds one
hundred and ﬁfty dollars;
4. In an action for the recovery of personal property;
5. In an action not hereinbefore specified, for the re
covery of money or damages, when the plaintiff shall
recover ﬁfty dollars or more.
But in an action for assault, battery, false imprison
ment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal con
versation, seduction, or breach of promise of marriage,
if the plaintiff recovers less than ﬁfty dollars damages,
he shall recover no more costs and disbursements than
damages; and in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, if the plaintiff recover property or
the value thereof, as established on the trial, and damages
for the detention of the same, in all less than ﬁfty dol
lars, he shall recover no more costs and disbursements
than the sum of such value and damages.

§550. [540.] When several actions shall
cutcd for the same cause of action, against se*
ties who might have been joined as defender
same action, disbursements shall be allowed th
in each action if he prevail therein, but costs
be allowed such plaintiff in more than one 01
tions, which shall be at his election, unless thi
parties prosecuted in such other action or act
at the time of the commencement of the previc
have been without this state or secreted thereii
§551. [541.] Costs are allowed of course i
fendant in the actions mentioned in section l
unless the plaintiff be entitled to costs therein;
there are several defendants not united in int
making separate defenses by separate &DSWGTS,1
be allowed or not to each of such defendants
action were commenced against him separately
Joint defense. —In an action their defense, but one b‘
against several who do not sever in allowed: Tyler v. Trusts
§ 552. [542.] Costs, when allowed to either
as follows:—
1. In the supreme court, on an appeal to the prevailing
party, ﬁfteen dollars;
2. In the circuit court, to the prevailing party when
judgment is given without trial of an issue of law or
fact, or upon an appeal, ﬁve dollars; when judgment is
given after trial of an issue of law or fact, ten dollars;
' 3. In the county court, one half the amount allowed
in the circuit court.
But when on an appeal to the supreme or circuit
court a new trial is ordered, or a decision given modify
ing the judgment appealed from, the costs on appeal
shall be allowed or not, in-the discretion of the appellate
court.
§ 553. [£543.] A party entitled to costs shall also be
allowed for all necessary disbursements, including the
fees of oﬂicers and witnesses, the necessary expenses of
taking depositions by commission or otherwise, the expensc
of publication of the summons or notices, and the
postage where the same are served by mail, the compen
sation of referees, and the necessary expense of copying
any public record, book, or document used as evidence
on the trial.
§ 554. [544.] In a suit, costs and disbursement shall
be allowed to a party in whose favor a decree is given,
in like manner and amount as an action, without reference
to the amount recovered or the value of the subject
of the suit, unless the court otherwise directs.
§ 555. [545] Every oﬂicer, witness, or other person
required to do or perform any act or service for any
party to any action, suit, or proceeding whatever shall
be entitled to demand and receive from such party the
compensation which the law allows therefor in advance;
but a party to any action, suit, or proceeding in any
court of justice in this state, may at his option pay the
fees of the officers thereof in advance, or give such
oﬂicers an undertaking with suﬁicient suret
The costs and disbursements which a part
to recover from another may be collected b
tion to enforce the judgment or decree as a
The fees secured to the oﬁicers of the court,
them, by any party to the judgment or de(
collected by an execution against the prop
party and that of his sureties in the undert:
for. Such oﬂicers' execution may issue in 1
the clerk as plaintiff in the writ, and for th
all oﬂicers of the court to whom fees are so
cured, whenever an execution might issue to
judgment or decree at the instance of tilt
party therein.

§ 556. [546.] Costs and disbursements sl:
and allowed by the clerk. No disburseme:
allowed any party unless he shall ﬁle wit]
within ﬁve days from the entry of judgment
statement of the same, which statement mus
except as to fees of officers. A statement of dis
may be ﬁled with the clerk at any time afte
but in such case a copy thereof must be serv
adverse party. A disbursement which a part
to recover must be taxed, whether the san
paid or not by such party. The statement 1
ments thus ﬁled, and costs, shall be allowe
unless the adverse party, within two days frl
allowed to ﬁle the same, shall ﬁle his objecti
stating the particulars of such objections.
§ 557. [547.] When objections are made 1
for costs and disbursements, the clerk shai
pass upon the same, and indorse upon the veriﬁed statement,
or append thereto, the charges allowed or disal-
lowed. Any party aggrieved by the decision of the clerk
in the allowance of costs or disbursements may appeal
from such decision to the court within ﬁve days from
the date of such decision, by serving a notice of such ap
peal, and in what particulars, upon the adverse party or
his attorney, which appeal shall be heard and determined
by such court, or judge thereof, as soon thereafter as con
venient.
§ 558. [548.] Such appeal shall stay the proceedings
as to the costs and disbursements to which the appeal is
taken or relates, unless the respondent ﬁle with the clerk
an undertaking, with one or more sureties, to the eifect
that if the decision of the clerk be reversed or modiﬁed,
he will make such restitution as the court or judge may
direct. The suﬁiciency of the sureties in the undertak
ing may be excepted to by the appellant, and they be
required to justify in like manner and with like effect as
in an ordinary undertaking for an appeal.
§559. [549.] The fees of referees shall be four dollars
per day to each for every day spent in the business
of the reference, but the parties may agree in writing
upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon
such rate shall be allowed.
§ 560. [550.] Upon an application to postpone a trial,
the payment to the adverse party of a sum, not exceeding
ten
dollars, as costs may be nnposed by the court as a
condition of granting the postponement, and in all cases
where this code authorizes a court or judge to allow a
party to do any act in an action, suit, or proceeding upon
terms, such court or judge may, as a condition of such
allowance, impose upon such party the payment of a like
sum as costs.
§ 561. [551.] \Vhen in any action or suit for the recovery
of money or damages only, the defendant shall
allege in his answer that before the commencement
thereof he tendered to the plaintiﬂ a certainamount of
money in full payment or satisfaction of the cause of
action or suit, and now brings the same mto court and
deposits it with the clerk for the plaintiff, if such allega
tion of tender be found true, and the plaintiff do not
recover a greater sum than the amount so tendered, he
shall not recover costs off the defendant, but the defend
ant shall recover them off him.
§562. [552.] When costs or disbursements are ad
judged against an infant plaintiff, the guardian by whom
. . . -
he appeared in the action or suit shall be responsible
therefor, as if he were the actual plaintiff in such action
or suit, and payment thereof may be enforced against
him accordingly. I
§ 563. [553.] In an action or suit prosecuted or de
fended by an executor, administrator, trustee of an
express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute
to prosecute or defend therein, costs shall be recovered
as in ordinary cases, but such costs shall only be charge
able upon or collected off the estate, fund, or party rep
resented, unless the court or judge thereof shall order
the same to be recovered off the plaintiff or defendant
personally for mismanagement or bad faith in such ac
tion or suit or the defense thereto.

§ 564. [554.] When the decision of any oﬂicer, tri
bunal, or court of inferior jurisdiction is brought before
_ _
a court for review, such review shall, for all the purposes
of costs or disbursements, be deemed an appeal to such
court upon errors in law, and costs therein shall be
allowed and recovered accordingly.
§ 565. [555.] In all actions or suits prosecuted or
defended in the name and for the use of the state, or any
county or other public corporation therein, the state or
public corporation shall be liable for and may recover
costs in like manner and with like effect as in the case
of natural persons. Vt/hen a natural person is joined
with the state as plaintiff, or the action is upon the in
formation of such natural person, he shall be liable in
the ﬁrst instance for the defendant's costs; and such costs
shall not be recovered from the state until after exeeu-
tion issued therefor against such person and returned
unsatisﬁed in whole or in part.
§ 566. [556.] The attorney of a plaintiff who resides
out of the state, or is a foreign corporation, against whom
costs are adjudged in favor of a defendant, is liable to
such defendant therefor; and if he neglect to pay the
same, upon the information of such defendant shall be
punished as for a contempt. The attorney may relieve
or discharge himself from such liability by ﬁling an un
dertaking at the commencement of the action or suit, or
at any time thereafter before judgment or decree, for the
payment to the defendant of the costs and disbursements
that may be adjudged to him, executed by one or more
sufficient sureties.
§ 567. [557.] The sureties in such undertaking shall
possess the qualiﬁcations of sureties in an undertaking
for bail on arrest, and their sufficiency may be excepted
to by the defendant at any time within ﬁve days from
notice of ﬁling the same, and if so, they shall justify in
an amount not less than two hundred dollars, in like
manner and with like effect as such sureties for bail on
arrest. Until the time for excepting to the sufficiency of
the sureties has expired, or if excepted to, until they be
found sufficient, the attorney is liable as if no undertak
ing had been given. A deposit of two hundred dollars,
or other sum which the court or judge may direct, with
the clerk may be made in lieu of such undertaking.
§ 568. [558.] A sum not exceeding ﬁve dollars as
costs may be allowed to the prevailing party on a motion,
. . .
1n the discretion of the court, and may be absolute or
directed to abide the event of the action or suit. In any
action, suit, or proceeding as to which the allowance and
recovery of costs may not be provided for in this title or
elsewhere in this code, costs may be allowed or not,
according to the measure herein prescribed and appor
tioned among the parties, in the discretion of the court.
§569. [559.] The records of the circuit and county
courts are, a register, journal, judgment docket, execu
tion docket, fee-book, jury-book, and ﬁnal record. And
the records of the supreme court are, the register, jour
nal, and fee-book only; but this section does not include
the books and records of the county court, pertaining
to probate and county business.
§ 570. [£360.] The register is a book wherein the clerk
shall enter, by its title, every action, suit, or proceeding,
.
commenced 1n, or transferred or appealed to, the court
whereof he is clerk, according to the date of its com
mencement, transfer, or appeal; and thereafter, until the
entry of judgment, note therein, according to the date
thereof, the ﬁling or return of any paper or process, or
the making of any order, rule, or other direction in or
concerning such action, suit, or proceeding.
§571. [561.] The journal is a book wherein the
. _
, .
clerk shall enter the proceedmgs of the court durmg
. . . . .
term time, and such proceedmgs 1n vacation as this
code specially directs. Q
§ 572. [562.] The ‘judgment docket is a book wherein
judgments and decrees are docketed, as elsewhere pro
vided in this code. Each page thereof shall be divided
. . '
into eight columns, and headed as follows: Judgment
debtors; judgment creditors; amount of judgment; date
of entry in journal; when docketed; appeal, when taken;
decision on appeal; satisfaction, when entered.
§ 573. [563.] The execution docket is a book wherein
the clerk shall note, under the title of every cause, the
issue and return of execution, and generally the ﬁling
or return of any paper or process, or the making of any
order, rule, or other direction therein, from and after
the entry of judgment or decree, until satisfaction or
performance thereof.
§ 574. [564.] The fee-book is one wherein the clerk
shall enter, under the title of every cause, against the
party to whom the service is rendered, the clerk’s fees
earned, and received or not received, and none other,
except as specially directed by this code.
§ 575. [565.] The ﬁnal record is a book wherein the
clerk shall record the papers, pleadings, and proceedings
in a cause, as elsewhere provided in this code.
§ 576. [566.] The jury-book is one wherein the clerk
shall enter the names of the persons attending upon the
court at a particular term as grand or trial jurors, the
time of the attendance of each, and when discharged or
excused, and the amount of fees and mileage earned by
each.
§ 577. [567.] The ﬁles of the court are all papers or
process ﬁled with or by the clerk of the court, in any
action, suit or proceeding therein or before the judge
thereof. '
§578. [568.] The records and ﬁles of the court are
to be kept in the clerk's ofﬁce, in the custody of the clerk,
and he is responsible for them. They shall not be taken
out of the ofﬁce by any one, except. by the judge of the
court or an attorney thereof, when allowed by special
order of the court or judge, or some general rule therefor
prescribed by the court and entered in the journal.‘
§ 579. [569.] Whenever requested, the clerk shall
furnish to any person a certiﬁed copy of any portion of
such records or ﬁles, and no person other than such clerk
is entitled to make such copy, or to the use of the records
or ﬁles for such purpose. Whenever requested, the clerk
shall search such records and ﬁles, and give a certiﬁcate
_ . .
thereof according to the nature of the inquiry, and no
person other than such clerk or an attorney of the court
shall be entitled to search and examine such records
or ﬁles, unless he be a party in interest, as appears of
record, concerning the matter sought to be examined or
inquired of.

§580. [570.] The party prosecuting a special pro
ceeding shall be known as the plaintiff, and the adverse
party as the defendant.
§ 581. [£371.] A judgment in a special proceeding is
the ﬁnal determination of the rights of the parties there
in. The deﬁnition of a motion and an order in an
action are applicable to similar acts in a special proceed
ing.
. . . . . -
§ 582. [£372.] The writ heretofore known as the writ
of ccrtiorari is known in this code as the writ of review.
§ 583. [573.] Any party to any process or proceed
ing before or by any inferior court, ofﬁcer, or tribunal
may have the decision or determination thereof reviewed
for errors therein as in this title prescribed, and not
otherwise. Upon a review, the court may review any
intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily
affecting the decision or determination sought to be re
viewed.
See § (5751, post.
§ 584. [574.] The writ shall be allowed by the cir
cuit court or judge thereof, or by the county court or
judge of the county wherein the decision or determina
tion sought to be reviewed was made, upon the petition
of the plaintiff, describing the same with convenient
certainty, and setting forth the errors alleged to have
been committed therein. Such petition shall be signed
by the plaintiff or his attorney, and veriﬁed by the cer
tiﬁcate of an attorney of the court, to the effect that he
has examined the process or proceeding, and the decis
ion or determination therein, and that the same is erro
neous as alleged in said petition.
§585. [575.] The writ shall be allowed in all cases
where there is no appeal or other plain, speedy, and ade
quate remedy, and where the inferior court, ofﬁcer, or
tribunal in the exercise of judicial functions appears to
have exercised such functions erroneously, or to have
exceeded it or his jurisdiction, to the injury of some
substantial right of the plaintiff, and not otherwise.
§586. [576.] Before allowing the writ, the court or
judge shall require the plaintiff to give an undertaking
to its approval, with one or more sureties, in the sum of
one hundred dollars, to the effect that he will pay all
costs and disbursements that may be adjudged to the
defendant on the review. Such court or judge may
allow such undertaking to be given in a sum‘ not less
than ﬁfty dollars, when it is probable that such sum will
be sufficient.
§ 587. [577.] The writ shall be directed to the court,
oﬁicer, or tribunal whose decision or determination is
sought to be reviewed, or to the clerk or other person
having the custody of its records or proceedings, re
quiring it or him to return said writ to the circuit court,
and not elsewhere, within a time therein speciﬁed, with
a certiﬁed copy of the record or proceedings in question
annexed thereto, that the same may be reviewed by such
circuit court, and requiring the defendant to desist from
further proceedings in the matter to be reviewed.
§ 588. [578.] The -words in the writ requiring a stay
of proceedings may be inserted or omitted in the discre
tion of the court or judge issuing the same, and the pro
ceedings shall be stayed or not, accordingly. The writ
shall be made returnable at the next term of the circuit
court, or in vacation, and if the latter, the same may be
tried and judgment given therein, by the judge thereof,
in like manner and with like effect as in term time.
§ 589. [579.] Upon the ﬁling of the order allowing
the writ, and the petition and undertaking of the plain
tiff, the clerk shallissue the writ, according to the direc
tion of the order. The writ shall be served by delivering
the original, according to the direction thereof, and may
be served by any oflicer or person authorized to serve a
summons; and a certiﬁed copy of the Writ shall be served
by delivery to the opposite party in the suit or proceed
ing sought to be reviewed, at least ten days before the
return of the original writ.

§ 590. [$580.] If the return to the writ be incomplete,
the court may order a further return to be made. In no
case shall the writ be allowed unless the application
therefor be made within six months from the date of the
decision or determination complained of.
§591. [581.] Upon the review, the court shall have
power to aﬁirm, modify, reverse, or annul the decision or
determination reviewed, and if necessary, to award resti
tution to the plaintiff, or by mandate direct the inferior
'court, officer, or tribunal, to proceed in the matter re
viewed according to its decision.
From the judgment of
the circuit court on review, an appeal may be taken to
the supreme court in like manner and with like effect as
from a judgment of such circuit court in an action.

§592. [582.] The writ of mandamus is known in
this code as prescribed and regulated in this title, and
not otherwise.
§ 593. [583.] It may be issued to any inferior court,
corporation, board, oﬁicer, or person, to compel the per
formance of an act which the law specially enjoins, as a
duty resulting from an office, trust, or station. But
though the writ may require such court, corporation,
board, oﬁicer, or person to exercise its or his judgment,
or proceed to the discharge of any of its or his functions,
it shall not control judicial discretion. The writ shall
not be issued in any case where there is a plain, speedy,
and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of the law.

§ 594. [58-1.] The writ shall be allowed by the court,
or judge thereof, upon the petition, veriﬁed as a com
plaint in an action, of the party beneﬁcially interested.
It may be allowed, with or without notice to the adverse
party, as in the case of a writ of review. Upon the ﬁling
of the petition and order of allowance, the writ shall be
issued by the clerk in accordance therewith.
§ 595. [585.] The writ shall be directed to the court,
corporation, board, oflicer, or person mentioned or desig
nated in the order of allowance, and may be served
thereon, by any oﬂicer or person authorized to serve a
summons, by delivery of the original to such oﬁicer
or person, or to any member of such court, or to any
ofﬁcer of such corporation upon whom this code author
izes a. summons to be served. The proof of service shall
be the same as in a writ of review, and obedience to the
writ may be enforced in such manner as the court or
judge thereof shall direct.
§596. [586.] The writ is either alternative or per
emptory; when in the alternative, it shall state concisely
the facts, according to the petition, showing the obliga
tion of the defendant to perform the act, and his omission
to perform it, and command him, that immediately
after the receipt of the writ, or at some other speciﬁed
time, he do the act required to be performed, or show
cause before the court or judge thereof, by whom the
writ was allowed, at a time and place therein speciﬁed,
why he has not done so; and that he then and there re
turn the writ, with his certiﬁcate annexed, of having
done as he is commanded, or the cause of his omission
thereof. When peremptory, the writ shall be in a similar
form, except that the words requiring the defendant to
show cause why he has not done as commanded, and to
return the cause therefor, shall be omitted.
§ 597. [587.] When the right to require the perforrn-
ance of the act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid
excuse can be given for not performing it, a peremptory
mandamus shall be allowed in the ﬁrst instance; in all
other cases, the alternative writ shall be ﬁrst issued.
§598. [588.] On the return day of the alternative
writ, or such further day as the court or judge thereof
may allow, the defendant on whom the writ shall have
been served may show cause by demurrer or answer to
the writ, in the same manner as to a complaint in an
action.
§ 599. [589.] If the defendant do not show cause
by demurrer or answer, a peremptory mandamus shall
be allowed against him. If the answer contain new mat
ter, the same may be demurred or replied to by the plain
tiff, within such time as the court or judge may prescribe.
If the replication contain new matter, the same may be
demurred to by the defendant within such time as the
court or judge may prescribe, or he may countervail
such matter on the trial or other proceedings by proof,
either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.
§ 600. [590.] The pleadings in the proceeding by
mandamus are those mentioned in sections 598 [588] and
599 [589], and none other are allowed. They are to have
the same effect, and to be construed, and may be amended
in the same manner, as pleadings in an action. Either
party may move to strike out, or be allowed to plead over
after motion or demurrer allowed or disallowed, and the
issues joined shall be tried and the further proceedings
thereon had in like manner and with like effect as in an
action.
§ 601. [591.] If judgment be given for the plaintiff,
he shall recover the damages which he shall have sus
tained by reason of the premises, to .be ascertained in
the same manner as in an action, together with costs and
disbursements, and a peremptory mandamus shall be
awarded without delay. ,
§ 602. [592.] A recovery of damages by virtue of this
title against a party who shall have made a return to a.
writ of mandamus is a bar to any other action or suit
against the same party for the same cause.
§ 603. [593.] Whenever a peremptory mandamus is
directed to a public oﬂicer or body commanding the
performance of any public duty specially enjoined by
law, if it appear to the court or judge thereof that such
oﬂicer or any member of such body has without just
excuse refused or neglected to perform the duty so en
joined, the court or judge may impose a ﬁne, not exceed
ing ﬁve hundred dollars, upon every such oﬁicer or
member of such body; and the payment thereof is a
bar to any action for any penalty incurred by such ofﬁ-
.
cer or member by reason of his refusal or neglect to per-
form the duty so enjoined.

§ 604. [594.] The circuit court, or judge thereof, of
the county wherein the defendant, if a public oﬂicer or
. . . . . .
body, exercises his or its functions, or 1f a private person
or corporation, wherein such person resides or may be
found, or such private corporation might be sued in an
action, shall have exclusive jurisdiction of the proceed
ing herein prescribed, except that the supreme court
shall have jurisdiction of such proceeding in all cases
arising in the state where it may be necessary or proper
to enable such court to maintain its appellate jurisdic
tion.
§605. [595.] In the circuit court the writ may be
made returnable either in term time or vacation, and if
the latter, may be tried and determined before the judge
thereof in like manner and with like effect as in term
time. In the supreme court the writ may be allowed
by the court or any judge thereof, but shall only be tried
and determined by the court; and all issues of either fact
or law therein shall be tried by the court.
§ 606. [£596.] From the judgment of the circuit court,
or judge thereof, refusing to allow a mandamus, or direct-
ing a peremptory mandamus, an appeal may be taken to
the supreme court in like manner and with like effect
as in an action.

§607. [597.] The writ of habeas corpus ad subjic-ien
dam is the writ herein designated, and every other writ
of habeas corpus is abolished. Every person imprisoned,
or otherwise restrained of his liberty, within this state,
under any pretense whatsoever, except in the cases speci
ﬁed in the next section, may prosecute a writ of habeas
corpus according to the provisions of this title, to inquire
into the cause of such imprisonment or restraint, and if
illegal, to be delivered therefrom.
5 608. [59s.]
The following persons shall not be
allowed to prosecute the writ:—
1. Persons imprisoned or restrained by virtue of
process issued by a court of the United States, or a judge
or commissioner or other oﬂicer thereof, in cases where
such courts, or judges or officers thereof, have exclusive
jurisdiction under the laws of the United States, or have
acquired exclusive jurisdiction by the commencement of
actions, suits, or other proceedings in such courts, or be-
fore such commissioner or other ofﬁcer thereof;
2. Persons imprisoned or restrained by virtue of the
judgment or decree of a competent tribunal of civil or
criminal jurisdiction, or by virtue of an execution issued
upon such judgment or decree.
§ 609. [599.] The writ shall be allowed by the court,
or judge thereof, upon the petition of the party for whose
relief it is intended, or by some other person in his be
half, signed and veriﬁed by the oath of the petitioner,
to the effect that he believes it to be true.
§ 610. [600.] The petition shall state, in substance:—-
1. That the party in whose behalf the writ is applied
for is imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, the place
where, and officer or person by whom he is imprisoned
or restrained, naming both parties, if their names be
known, or describing them, if not known;
2. That such person is not imprisoned or restrained
by virtue of any order, judgment, decree, or process
speciﬁed in section 608 [598];
3. The cause or pretense of such imprisonment or
restraint, according to the best knowledge or belief of
the petitioner; 
4. If the imprisonment or restraint be in virtue of
any order, warrant, or process, a copy thereof shall be
annexed to the petition, or it must be alleged that, by
reason of the removal or concealment of the party before
the application, a demand of such copy could not be
made, or that such demand was made, and the legal fees
therefor tendered to the person having the party in his
custody, and that a copy was refused;
5. If the imprisonment or restraint be alleged to be
illegal, in what the alleged illegality consists;
6. That the legality of the imprisonment or restraint
has not been already adjudged, upon a prior writ of
habeas corpus, to the knowledge or belief of the peti
tioner.
§ 611. [601.] The court or judge to whom the peti
tion is presented must allow the writ without delay,
unless it appears from the petition itself, or from the
documents annexed thereto, that the person for whose
relief it is intended is by the provisions of this title
prohibited from prosecuting the writ. Upon the ﬁling
of the petition and the order of allowance with the clerk,
the clerk shall issue the writ immediately in accordance
therewith.

§ 612. [602.] The writ shall command the defendant
to produce the person imprisoned or restrained, by what
soever name he may be called or charged, and certify and
return therewith the time and cause of his imprisonment
or restraint, before the court or judge allowing the writ,
at a time and place therein speciﬁed, or immediately
after the receipt of the writ, to do and receive what shall
then and there be considered concerning the person so
imprisoned or restrained; or when it appears by the
petition and documents thereto annexed, and [that ?] the
cause or oﬁ'ense for which the person is imprisoned or
restrained is not bailable, the production of the party
may be dispensed with, though such production, be
prayed for in the petition, and the writ issued accord
iI1g1.v- .
§ 613. [603.] The writ shall not be disobeyed for any
defect of form. It is suﬁicient,—1. If the oﬁicer or person having the custody of the
party imprisoned or restrained be designated either by his
name or [of ‘?] oﬁice, if he have any, or by his own name,
or if both such names be unknown or uncertain, he may
be described by an assumed appellation; and any one
who may be served with the writ is to be deemed the oﬁi
cer or person to whom it was directed, although it may
be directed to him by a wrong name or description, or
to another person;
2. If the person who is directed to be produced be
designated by name, orif his name be uncertain or un
known, he may be described in any other way, so as to
designate the person intended.
§ 614. [604.] The oﬂicer or person upon whom the
writ shall have been duly served shall state in his re-
turn, plainly and unequivoca1ly,—
1. Whether he have or have not the party in his cus
tody or power or under his restraint, and if he have not,
whether he has had the party in his custody or under
his power or restraint at any and what time prior or
subsequent to the date of the writ;
2. If he have the party in his custody or power or
under his restraint, the authority and true cause of such
imprisonment or restraint, setting forth the same at
large;
3. If the party be detained by virtue of any writ,
warrant, or other written authority, a copy thereof shall
be annexed to the return, and the original shall be pro
duced, and exhibited on the return of the writ, to the
court or judge-before whom the same is returnable;
4. If the person upon whom such writ shall have been
served shall have had the party in his power or custody
or under his restraint at any time prior or subsequent
to the date of the writ, but has transferred such custody
or restraint to another, the return shall state particularly
to whom, at what time, for what cause, and by what
authority such transfer took place. The return shall be
signed by the person making the same, and except
where such person shall be a sworn public oﬂicer, and
shall make his return in his oﬁicial capacity, it shall be
veriﬁed by oath.
_ § 615. [605.] The person or oﬁicer on whom the
habeas corpus shall have been served shall also bring
the body of the person in his custody, according to the
command of such writ, except in the case of the sickness
of such person, as hereinafter provided.
§ 616. [606.] If the person upon whom such writ
shall have been duly served shall refuse or neglect to
. .
obey the same by producmg the party named in such
writ and making a full and explicit return thereto with
in the time required, and no sufﬁcient excuse be shown
therefor, it shall be the duty of the court or judge before
whom such writ shall have been made returnable, upon
due proof of the service thereof, forthwith to issue a.
warrant against such person, directed to the sheriff of
any county in this state, and commanding him forthwith
to apprehend such person and bring him immediately
before such court or judge; and on such person being so
brought, he shall be committed to close custody in the
jail of the county in which such judge shall be until he
shall make return to such writ and comply with any
order that may be made in relation to the person for
whose relief such writ shall have been issued.

§ 617. [607.] If a sheriff of any county shall have ne
glected to return such writ, the warrant may be directed
to any coroner or other person to be designated therein,
who shall have full power to execute the same, and such
sheriff, upon being brought up, may be committed to the
jail of any county other than his own.
§ 618. [608.] The court or judge by whom any such
warrant shall be issued may also, at the same time or
afterwards, issue a precept to the sheriff or other person
to whom such warrant shall have been directed, com-
manding him to bring forthwith before such court or
judge the party for whose beneﬁt such writ shall have
been allowed, who shall thereafter remain in the custody
of such sheriff or person until discharged or remanded.
§ 619. [609.] The court or judge before whom the
party shall be brought on such writ shall, immediately
after the return thereof, proceed to examine into the
facts contained in such return, and into the cause of the
imprisonment or restraint of such party, whether the
same shall have been upon commitment for any crimi-'
nal or supposed criminal matter, or not.
§ 620. [610.] If no legal cause be shown for such im-
prisonment or restraint, or for the continuation thereof,
the court or judge shall discharge such party from the
custody or restraint under which he is held.
§621. [611.] It shall be the duty of the court or
judge forthwith to remand such party if it shall appear
that he is legally detained in custody, either,—
1. By virtue of process issued by any court, or judge
or commissioner or other oﬁicer thereof, of the United
States, in a case where such court, or' judge or oﬁicer
thereof, has conclusive jurisdiction; or,
2. By virtue of the judgment or decree of any com
petent court of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or of any
execution issued upon such judgment or decree; or,
3. For any contempt, specially and plainly charged in
the commitment, by some court, oﬂicer, or body having
authority to commit for the contempt so charged; and,
4. That the time during which such party may be
legally detained has not expired.

§ 622. [612] If it appear on the return that the pris-
oner is in custody by virtue of an order or civil process
of any court legally constituted, or issued by an oﬁicer
in the course of judicial proceedings before him, author
ized by law, such prisoner shall only be discharged in
one of the following cases:—
1. When the jurisdiction of such court or oﬁicer has
been exceeded, either as to matter, place, sum, or person;
2. When, though the original imprisonment was law
ful, yet by some act, omission, or event which has taken
place afterwards, the party has become entitled to be
discharged;
3. When the order or process is defective in some
matter of substance required by law, rendering such
process void;
4. When the order or process, though in proper form,
has been issued in a case not allowed by law;
5. When the person having the custody of the pris
oner under such order or process is not the person em
powered by law to detain him; or,
6. When the order or process is not authorized by any
judgment or decree of any court, nor by any provision
of law.
»§ 623. [613.] But no court or judge, on the return
of a writ of habeas corpus, has power to inquire into the
legality or justice of any order, judgment, or process
speciﬁed in section 608 [598], nor into the justice, pro
priety, or legality of any commitment for a contempt
made by a court, ofﬁcer, or body, according to law, and
charged in such commitment, as provided in this code.
§624. [614.] If it appear that the party has been
legally committed for a criminal offense, or if he appear
by the testimony offered with the return, or upon the
hearing thereof, to be probably guilty of such oﬂ'ense,
although the commitment be irregular, he shall forth
with be remanded to the custody or placed under the
restraint from which he was taken, if the oﬂicer or per
son under whose custody or restraint he was be legally
entitled thereto; if not so entitled, he shall be committed
to the custody of the ofﬁcer or person so entitled.
§ 625. [615.] Until judgment be given upon the
return, the party may be either committed to the cus
tody of the sheriff of the county or placed in such care
or under such custody as his age and other circum
stances may require.
§626. [616.] When it appears, from the return to
the writ, that the party named therein is in custody on
an order or process under which another person has an
interest in continuing his imprisonment or restraint, no
order shall be made for his discharge until it shall ap
pear that the party so interested, or his attorney, shall
have had notice of the time and place at which such
writ shall have been made returnable.
§ 627. [617.] When it appears from the return that
the party is imprisoned or restrained on a criminal
accusation, the court or judge shall make no order for
his discharge until notice of the return is given to the
district attorney of the county where the party is im
prisoned or restrained.
§ 628. [618.] The plaintiff in the proceeding, on the
return of the writ, may, by replication, veriﬁed as in an
, _ _
action, controvert any of the material facts set forth In
the return, or he may allege therein any fact to show,
either that his imprisonment or restraint is unlawful, or
that he is entitled to his discharge; and thereupon the
court or judge shall proceed in a summary way to hear
such evidence as may be produced in support of the
imprisonment or restraint, or against the same, and to
dispose of the party as the law and justice of the case
may require.

§ 629. [619.] The plaintiff may demur to the return,
or the defendant may demur to the new matter, if any,
set forth in the replication of the plaintiff, or by proof
. . ,
controvert the same, as upon a direct demal or avo1dance.
The pleadings herein provided for shall be made
within such time as the court or judge shall direct, and
they shall be construed and have the same effect as in
an action.
§ 630. [620.] Whenever, from the sickness or inﬁrm~
ity of the party, he cannot, without danger, be produced,
the officer or person in whose custody he is may state
. _ _ _ _
that fact in his return to the writ, and 1f satisﬁed of the
truth of the allegation, and the return be otherwise sufﬁ~
cient, the court or judge shall proceed to decide on the
-return, and to dispose of the matter, in the same man
ner as if the party had been produced.
§ 631. [621.] If it appear that the party detained is
illegally imprisoned or restrained, judgment shall be
given that he be forthwith discharged; otherwise, judg
ment shall be given that the proceeding be dismissed
and the party remanded.
§ 632. [622.] Notwithstanding the issuing of the writ
without requiring the production of the person, the
court or judge before whom the same was returnable
may, before ﬁnal decision, issue a precept to the oﬁicer
or other person to whom the writ was directed, requiring
the production of the person.
§633. [623.] Obedience to a judgment for the dis
charge of a person imprisoned or restrained, pursuant
to the provisions of this title, may be enforced by the
court or judge by proceedings for a contempt. No 0111
cer or other person is liable to any action or proceeding
for obeying such judgment of discharge.
§ 634. [624.] N0 person who has been ﬁnally dis
charged upon a proceeding by habeas corpus, pursuant
to the provisions of this title, shall be again imprisoned,
restrained, or kept in custody for the same cause; but it
is not to be deemed the same cause,—- j
1. If he have been discharged from a commitment on
a criminal charge, and be afterwards committed for the
same offense by the legal order or process of the court
wherein he is bound by recognizance or undertaking to
appear, or in which he is indicted or convicted for the
same offense; or,
2. If, after a judgment of discharge for a defect of
evidence, or for a material defect in the commitment,
in a criminal case, the party be again arrested on suﬂi
cient evidence, and committed by legal process for the
same offense; or,
3. If, in a civil action or suit, the party have been dis
charged for any illegality in the judgment, decree, or
process hereinbefore-speciﬁed, and be afterwards impris-
oned for the same cause of action or suit; or,
_ _ _ _ _ _
4. If, 111 a civil action or suit, he have been discharged
_ _
from commitment on a writ of arrest, and be afterwards
committed on execution, in the same action or suit, or
on a writ of arrest in another action or suit, after the
dismissal of the ﬁrst one.
§ 635. [625.] Whenever it appears by satisfactory
evidence that any person is illegally imprisoned or re
strained, and that there is good reason to believe that he
will be carried out of the state, or suffer some irreparable
injury before he can be relieved by the issuing of a
habcas corpus, any court or judge authorized to issuesuch writ may issue a warrant reciting the facts, and
directed to any sheriff or other person therein designated,
commanding such oﬁicer or person to take such person,
and forthwith to bring him before such court or judge,
to be dealt with according to law. 

§ 636. [626.] When the proof mentioned in the last
section shall also be suﬂicient to justify an arrest of the
person having the party in his custody, as for a criminal
offense, committed in the taking or detaining of such
party, the warrant may also contain an order for the
arrest of such person for such offense.
§637. [627.] Any officer or person to whom such
warrant shall be directed shall execute the same by
. . .
bringing the party therem named and the person who
detains him, if so commanded by the warrant, before_
the court or judge issuing the same; and thereupon the
person detaining such party shall make a return in like
manner, and the like proceedings shall be had thereon,
as if a writ of habeas corpus had been issued in the ﬁrst
instance.
§ 638. [628.] If the person having such party in his
custody be brought before the court or judge as for a
criminal offense, he shall be examined,c0mmitted, bailed,
or discharged by the court or judge in like manner as in
other criminahcases of the like nature.
§ 639. [629.] Any oﬂicer or other person refusing to
deliver a copy of any order, warrant, process, or other
authority by which he shall detain any person, to any
one who shall demand such copy, and tender the fees
therefor, shall forfeit two hundred dollars to the person
so detained.
§ 640. [630.] Whenever a writ of habeas corpus is
required in any action, suit, or proceeding, civil or crim
inal, to which the state is a party, the application there
for may be made by the district attorney having charge
thereof, and whenever so issued the court or judge shall
state in the order of allowance that it was issued on such
application.
§ 641. [631.] A writ of habeas corpus may be served
by the sheriff of any county in the state within his
county, or by any other person therein designated in any
county within the state, and the service thereof shall not
be deemed complete, so as to require the prisoner to be
brought up before the court or judge issuing the same,
unless the p_arty serving the same shall tender to the per
son in whose custody the prisoner may be, if such per
son be a sheriff or other oﬂicer, the fees allowed by law
for bringing up such prisoner; nor unless he shall also
enter into an undertaking to such sheriff or other officer,
as the case may be, in a penalty double the amount of
the sum for which such prisoner may be detained, if he
be detained for any speciﬁc sum of money, and if not,
then in such a sum as the judge granting the writ shall
direct, not exceeding one thousand dollars, to the effect
that such person shall pay the charges for carrying back
such prisoner if he shall be remanded, and that such
prisoner will not escape by the way, either in going to
or returning from the place to which he is to be taken.
If such fees be not paid, or such security be not tendered,
the officer to whom the writ is directed shall make return
thereto, in the manner required by section 614 [604], and
shall state therein the reason why such prisoner is not
produced, and thereupon the court or judge granting
I
the writ may proceed as if the prisoner were produced.
But this section, from and inclusive of the words “and
the service thereof,” does not apply to a case wherein the
writ is issued on the application of the district attorney.

§ 642. [£532.] The writ of habeas cmpua may be
served by delivery of the original to the oﬂicer or per-
son to whom it is directed, or if he cannot be found, by
leaving it at the jail or other place in which the party is
imprisoned or restrained, with any under-oﬂicer or other
person having charge for the time of such party.
§ 643. [633.] If the oﬂicer or person on whom the
writ ought to be served conceal himself, or refuse admit
tance to the person attempting to serve it, it may be
served by aﬁixing it in some conspicuous place on the
outside, either of his dwelling-house or the jail or other
place where the party is conﬁned. .
§ 644. |_634.] It is the duty of every sheriff or other
otiiccr upon whom a writ of habeas corpus has been
served, whether such writ be directed to him or not,
upon payment or tender of the fees allowed by law, and
the delivery or tender of the undertaking herein pre
scribed, to obey and return the writ according to the
exigency thereof; and it is the duty of every other per
son upon whom the writ is served, having the custody
of the person for whose beneﬁt it is issued, to obey and
return it in like manner, without requiring the payment
of any fees, unless the payment of such fees has been re
quired by the court or judge allowing such writ.
§ 645. [635.] Every court or judge allowing awrit of
habeas covpus, directed to a person other than a sheriff
. . . . . .
or other oﬂicer, may, in its discretion, require, in order
.
to render the service effectual, that the charges of producing
the party be paid by the applicant; and in such
case the court or judge shall, in the order allowing the writ,
specify the amount of such charges, which shall not ex
ceed the fees allowed by law to sheriffs for similar services.
§ 646. [636.] The proof of service of the writ of
ha-bcas co-rpua shall be the same as in the service of a
summons, except that the same shall be indorsed upon a
copy of the writ made by the officer or person serving it,
and returned to the clerk who issued the writ.
_
§ 647. [£337.] If the writ be returnable at a certain
time, such return shall be made, and the party produced,
. . . .
if required, or there be no vahd excuse therefor, as herein
provided, at the time and place speciﬁed therein; if it be
returnable forthwith, and the place of return be within
twenty miles of the place of service, the return must be
made and the party produced within twenty-four hours,
and the same time is allowed for every additional twenty
miles.
§ 648. [638.] The circuit court of the judicial district
wherein the party is imprisoned or restrained, and the
county court and the county judge of each of the several
counties of this state wherein the party is imprisoned
or restrained, shall have concurrent jurisdiction of the
proceedings by habeas corpus herein provided for, and
the said courts and judges thereof may issue, hear, and
decide all questions arising upon habeas corpus. At any
time after the allowance of such writ or warrant, by the
court or judge thereof, the plaintiff therein, or the person
applying therefor on his behalf, may give notice to the
judge issuing the same, and thereupon, if necessary to
avoid delay, such judge shall by order require that the
return be made and the party produced before himat
such time and place, within the county or district, as
may be convenient.

§ 649. [639.] Any party to a proceeding by habeas
corpus, including the state when the district attorney
appears therein, may appeal from the judgment of the
circuit or county court refusing to allow such writ or
any ﬁnal judgment therein, either in term time or vaca
tion, in like manner and with like effect as in an action.
No question once ﬁnally determined upon a proceeding
by habeas corpus shall be re-examined upon another or
subsequent proceeding of the same kind.

§ 650. [640.] The following acts or omissions, in re-
spect to a court of justice, or proceedings therein, are
deemed to be contempts of the authority of the court:—
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior
toward the judge while holding the court, tending to
impair its authority or to interrupt the due course of
a trial or other judicial proceeding;
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or vio
lent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course
of a trial or other judicial proceeding;
3. Misbehavior in office, or other willful neglect or vio
lation of duty, by an attorney, clerk, sheriﬂ‘, or other per
son appointed or selected to perform a judicial or minis
terial service;
4. Deceit, or abuse of the process or proceedings of
the court, by a party to an action, suit, or special pro
ceeding; I
5. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, decree, order,
or process of the court;
6. Assuming to be an attorney or other oiﬁcer of the
court, and acting as such without authority in a particu
lar instance;
7. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of
an officer by virtue of an order or process of such court;
8. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an ac
tion, suit, or proceeding, while going to, remaining at,
or returning from the court where the same is for trial;
9. Any other unlawful interference with the process
or proceedings of a court;
10. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refus
ing to be sworn or answer as a witness;
11. When summoned as a juror in a court, improperly
conversing with a party to an action, suit, or proceeding
to be tried at such court, or with any other person, in re
lation to the merits of such action, suit, or proceeding, or
receiving a communication from a party or other person
in respect to it without immediately disclosing the same
to the court;
12. Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magistrate,
or oﬁicer of the lawful judgment, decree, order, or pro
cess of a superior court, or proceeding in an action, suit,
or proceeding contrary to law, after such action, suit, or
proceeding shall have been removed from the jurisdic
tion of such inferior tribunal, magistrate, or officer.
The conduct speciﬁed in subdivisions 1 and 2 of this
section, when committed before a judicial oﬁicer, or dis
obedience of the lawful order or process of such oﬁicer,
made in the cases speciﬁed in section 916 [890], is also
to be deemed a contempt of the authority of such oﬁicer.
§ 651. [641.] Every court of justice, and every judi
cial oﬁicer, has power to punish contempt, by ﬁne or
imprisonment, or both. But such ﬁne shall not exceed
three hundred dollars, nor the imprisonment six months;
and when the contempt is not one of those mentioned
in subdivisions 1 and 2 of the last section, or in subdi
vision 1 of section 916 [890], it must appear that the
right or remedy of a party to an action, suit, or proceed
ing was defeated or prejudiced thereby before the con
tempt can be punished otherwise than by a ﬁne not
exceeding one hundred dollars.
§ 652. [642.] When a contempt is committed in the
immediate view and presence of the court or oﬂicer, it
may be punished summarily, for which an order must
be made reciting ‘the facts as occurring in such imme
diate view and presence, determining that the person
proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contempt, and
that he be punished as therein prescribed.

§ 653. [643.] In cases other than those mentioned in
section 652 [642], before any proceedings can be taken
therein, the facts constituting the contempt must be
shown by an affidavit presented to thecourt or judicial
officer, and thereupon such court or oﬁiccr may either
make an order upon the person charged, to show cause
why he should not be arrested to answer, or issue a war
rant of arrest to bring such person to answer in the ﬁrst
instance.
Amdavit. -—If the aﬁidavit be de- alent to the utter absence of an affi
fective in stating the facts, it is eqniv- davit: Batchelder v. Moore, 42 Cal. 412.
§ 654. [644.] If the party charged be in the custody
of an oﬁicer, by virtue of a legal order or process, civil
or criminal, except upon a sentence for a felony, an
order may be made for the production of such person
by the ofﬁcer having him in custody, that he may
answer, and he shall thereupon be produced and held,
until an order be made for his disposal.
§ 655. [645] In the proceeding for a contempt, the
state is the plaintiff. In all cases of public interest, the
proceeding may be prosecuted by the district attorney,
on behalf of the state, and in all cases where the procecd-
ing is commenced upon the relation of a private party,
such party shall be deemed a co-plaintiff with the state.
§ 656. [646.] Whenever a warrant of arrest is issued,
pursuant to this title, the court or judicial officer shall
direct therein whether the person charged may be let to
bail for his appearance upon the warrant, or detained
in custody without bail, and if he may be hailed, the
amount in which he may be let to bail. Upon execut
ing the warrant of arrest, the sheriff must keep the
person in actual custody, bring him before the court or
judicial oiﬁcer, and detain him until an order be made in
the premises, unless the person arrested entitle himself
to be discharged as provided in section 657 [647].

§ 657. [647 .] The defendant shall be discharged from
the arrest upon executing and delivering to the sheriff,
at any time before the return day of the warrant, an
undertaking, with two sufficient sureties, to the effect
that the defendant will appear on such return day, and
abide the order or judgment of the court or officer there
upon, or pay, as may be directed, the sum speciﬁed in
the warrant.
§ 658. [648.] The sheriff shall return the warrant of
arrest, and the undertaking, if any, given him by the
defendant, by the return day therein speciﬁed. When
the defendant has been brought up or appeared, the
court or judicial oﬂicer shall proceed to investigate the
charge by examining such defendant, and witnesses for
or against him, for which an adjournment may be had
from time to time, if necessary.
§ 659. [649.] Upon the evidence so taken, the court
or judicial oﬁcer shall determine whether or not the
defendant is guilty of the contempt charged, and if it be
determined that he is so guilty, shall sentence him to be
punished as provided in this title.
§ 660. [650.] If any loss or injury to a party in anaction, suit, or proceeding, prejudicial to his rights
therein, have been caused by the contempt, the court or
judicial oﬁcer, in addition to the punishment imposed
for the contempt, may give judgment that the party
aggrieved recover off the defendant a sum of money suf
ﬁcient to indemnify him, and to satisfy his costs and
disbursements, which judgment, and the acceptance of
the amount thereof, is a bar to any action, suit, or pro
ceeding by the aggrieved party for such loss or injury.
§661. [651.] When the contempt consists in the
omission or refusal to perform an act which is yet in the
power of the defendant to perform, he may be impris
oned until he shall have performed it, and in such case
the act must be speciﬁed in the warrant of commitment.
§662. [652.] Persons proceeded against according
to the provisions of this title are also liable to indict
ment for the samemisconduct, if it be an indictable
offense, but the court before which a conviction is had
on the indictment, in passing sentence, shall take into
consideration the punishment before inﬂicted.
§ 663. [653.] \Vhen the warrant of arrest has been re
turned served, if the defendant do not appear on the
return day, the court or judicial officer may issue another
warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be
prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted,
and the aggrieved party join in the action, and the sum
speciﬁed therein be recovered, so much thereof as will
compensate such party for the loss or injury sustained
by reason of the misconduct for which the warrant was
issued shall be deemed to be recovered for such party
exclusively.

§664. [654.] Either party to a judgment in a pro
ceeding for a contempt may appeal therefrom, in like
manner and with like effect as from a judgment in an
action, but such appeal shall not have the effect to stay
the proceeding in any other action, suit, or proceeding,
or upon any judgment, decree, or order therein, concern
ing which or wherein such contempt was committed.
Oontempts of justices’ courts are punishable in the
manner specially provided in the procedure before them.
§ 665. [£355.] Judicial evidence is the means, sanc
tioned bylaw, of ascertaining in a judicial proceeding
the truth respecting a question of fact. Proof is the
effect of evidence, the establishment of a fact by evidence.
§ 666. [656] The law of evidence, which is the sub
ject of this chapter and chapters IX. and X., is a collection
of general rules established by law, —
1. For declaring what is to be taken as true without
proof;
2. For declaring the presumptions of law, both those
which are disputable and those which are conclusive; and,
3. For the production of legal evidence;
4. For the exclusion of whatever is not legal;
5. For determining in certain cases the value and
effect of evidence.
§667. [657.] The law does not require demonstra
tion; that is, such a degree of proof as, excluding possi
bility of error, produces absolute certainty, because such
proof is rarely possible. Moral certainty only is required,
or that degree of proof which produces conviction in an
unprcjudiced mind.
§ 668. [658.] There are four kinds of evidence:—
1. The knowledge of the court;
2. The testimony of witnesses;
3. \Vritings;
4. Other material objects presented to the senses.
§ 669. [659.] There are several degrees of evidence:—
1. Original and secondary;
2. Direct and indirect;
3. Primary, partial, satisfactory, indispensable, and
‘conclusive.
§ 670. [660.] Original evidence is an original writing
or n1atcrial object introduced in evidence.
§671. [661.] Secondary evidence is a copy of such
original writing or object, or oral evidence thereof.

§672. [662.] Direct evidence is that which proves
the fact in dispute directly, without an inference or pre
sumption, and which in itself, if true, conclusively estab
lishes that fact. For example: if the fact in dispute
be an agreement, the evidence of a witness who was
present and witnessed the making of it is direct.
§ 673. [663.] Indirect evidence is that which tends
to establish the fact in dispute by proving another, and
which, though true, does not of itself conclusively estab
lish that fact, but which aﬂbrds an inference or presump
tion of its existence. For example: a witness proves
an admission of the party to the fact in dispute. This
proves a fact, from which the fact in dispute is inferred.
§ 674. [664.] Primary evidence is that which suﬂices
for the proof of a particular fact until contradicted and
overcome by other evidence. For example: the certiﬁ
cate of a recording oiﬁcer is primary evidence of a record;
but it may be afterwards overcome upon proof that there
is no such record,
§ 675. [£565.] Partial evidence is that which goes to es
tablish a detached fact, in a series tending to the fact in
dispute. It may be received, subject to be rejected as
incompetent, unless connected with the fact in dispute,
by proof of other facts.
For example: on an issue of
title to real property, evidence of the continued posses
sion of a remote occupant is partial, for it is of a detached
fact, which may or may not be afterwards connected
with the main fact in dispute.
§ 676. [666.] That evidence is deemed satisfactory
which ordinarily produces moral certainty or conviction
in an unprejudiced mind. Such evidence alone will
justify a verdict. Evidence less than this is denomi
nated insuﬂicient evidence.
§ 677. [667.] Indispensable evidence is that without
which a particular fact cannot be proved.
§ 678. [£368.] Conclusive or unanswerable evidence
is that which the law does not permit to be contradicted.
For example: the record of a court of competent juris
diction cannot be contradicted by the parties to it.
§ 679. [£369.] Cumulative evidence is additional evi
dence of the same character to the same point.
§ 680. [670.] Corroborative evidence is additional
evidence of a different character to the same point.
.
§ 681. [671.] The direct evidence of one witness who
is entitled to full credit is suﬂicient for proof of any fact
except usage, perjury, and treason.
§ 682. [672.] A witness can be heard only upon oath
or affirmation, and he can testify of those facts only
which he knows of his own knowledge, that is, which
are derived from his own perceptions; except in those
few express cases in which his opinions or inferences;
or the declarations of others, are admissible.

§683. [673.] A witness is presumed to speak the
truth. This presumption, however, may be overcome
by the manner in which he testiﬁes, by the character of
his testimony, or by evidence affecting his character or
motives, or by contradictory evidence; and where the
trial is by the jury, they are the exclusive judges of his
credibility.
§ 684. [674.] The rights of a party cannot be preju
diced by the declaration, act, or omission of another,
except by virtue of a particular relation between them.
§ 685. [675.] Where, however, one derives title to
real property from another, the declaration, act, or omis
sion of the latter, while holding the title, in relation to
the property, is evidence against the former.
§ 686. [676.] Where, also, the declaratmn, act, or
omission forms part of a transaction which is itself the
fact in dispute, or evidence of that fact, such declaration,
act, or omission is evidence as part of the transaction.

§ 687. [677.] And where the question in dispute be-
tween the parties is the obligation or duty of third per
son, whatever would be evidence for or against such
person is primary evidence between the parties.
§688. [678.] The declaration, act, or omission of a.
member of a family, who is deceased or out of the state,
is also admissible as evidence of common reputation in
cases where, on questions of pedigree, such reputation is
admissible.
§689. [679.] The declaration, act, or omission of a
deceased person, having suﬁicient knowledge of the sub
ject, against his pecuniary interest, is also admissible as
evidence to that extent against his successor in interest.
§ 690. [680.] When part of an act, declaration, con
versation, or writing is given in evidence by one party,
the whole, on the same subject, may be inquired into by
the other; when a letter is read, the answer may be
given; and when a detached act, declaration, conversa
tion, or writing is given in evidence, any other act, dec
laration, conversation, or writing which is necessary to.
make it understood may also be given in evidence.
§ 691. [681.] There shall be no evidence of the con
tents of a writing, other than the writing itself, except
in the following cases:—
1. When the original is in the possession of the party
against whom the evidence is offered, and he withholds it
under the circumstances mentioned in section 759 [749];
2. When the original cannot be produced by the party
by whom the evidence is offered, in a reasonable time,
with proper diligence, and its absence is not owing to
his neglect or default;
3. When the original is a record or other document in
the custody of a public officer;
4. IVhen the original is a record or other document
of which a certiﬁed copy is expressly made evidence by
this code or some other statute of the state;
5. \Vhen the originals consist of numerous accounts,
or other documents, which cannot be examined in court
without great loss of time, and the evidence sought from
them is only the general result of the whole.
In the cases mentioned in subdivisions 3 and 4, a copy
of the original shall be produced; in those mentioned in
subdivisions 1 and 2, either a copy or oral evidence of
the contents.
$5692. [682.] When the terms of an agreement have
been reduced to writing by the parties, it is to be con
sidered as containing all those terms, and therefore there
can be, between the parties and their representatives or
successors in interest, no evidence of the terms of the
agreement, other than the contents of the writing,except
in the following cases:—
1. Where a mistake or imperfection of the writing is
put in issue by the pleadings;
2. Where the validity of the agreement is the fact in
dispute. But this section does not exclude other evi
dence of the circumstances under which the agreement
was made, or to which it relates, as deﬁned in section
696 [686], or to explain an ambiguity, intrinsic or ex
trinsic, or to establish illegality or fraud. The term
“agreement” includes deeds and wills as well as con
tracts between parties.

§693. [6S3.] The language of a writing is to be in
terpreted according to the meaning it bears in the place
of its execution, unless the parties have reference to a
different place.
§69-1. [(38-1.] In the construction of a statute or in
strument, the oﬂice of the judge is simply to ascertain
and declare what is, in terms or in substance, contained
therein, not to insert what has been omitted, or to omit
what has been inserted; and where there are several
provisions or particulars, such construction is, if possi
ble, to be adopted as will give effect to all.
§ 695. [685.] In the construction of a statute the in
tention of the legislature, and in the construction of an
instrument the intention of the parties, is to be pursued,
if possible; and when a general and particular provision
are inconsistent, the latter is paramount to the former.
So a particular intent shall control a general one that is
inconsistent with it.
§697. [687.] The terms of a writing are presumed
to have been used in their primary and general accepta
tion, but evidence is nevertheless admissible that they
have a technical, local, or otherwise peculiar signiﬁcation,
and were so used and understood in the particular
instance, in which case the agreement shall be construed
accordingly.
§ 698. [688.] When an instrument consists partly of
written words and partly of a printed form, and the two
are inconsistent, the tbrmer controls the latter.
§699. [689.] When the characters in which an in
strument is written are diﬂicult to be deeiphered, or
the language of the instrument is not understood by the
court, the evidence of persons skilled in deciphering the
characters, or who understand the language, is admis
sible to declare the characters or the meaning of the
language.
See Wk § 706 [696], note.
§ 700. [690] When the terms of an agreement have
been intended in a different sense by the different par
ties to it, that sense is to prevail, against either party,
in which he supposed the other understood it; and when
different constructions of a provision are otherwise
equally proper, that is to be taken which is most fa
vorable to the party in whose favor the provisionwvas
n1ade.
§ 701. [691.] A written notice is to be construed ac
cording to the ordinary acceptation of its terms. Thus
a notice to the drawers or indorsers of a bill of ex
change or promissory note that it has been protested for
want of acceptance or payment shall be held to import
that the same has been duly presented for acceptance or
payment, and the same refused, and that the holder looks
for payment to the person to whom the notice is given.
§ 702. [692] Where a statute is equally susceptible
of two interpretations, one in favor of natural right, and
the other against it, the former is to prevail.
§ 703. [693.] None but a material allegation need be
proved. §
7 04. [694.] Evidence shall correspond with the
substance of the material allegations, and be relevant to
the questions in dispute. Collateral questions shall
therefore be avoided. It is, however, within the discre
tion of the court to permit inquiry into a collateral fact,
when such fact is directly connected with the question
in dispute, and is essential to its proper determination,
or when it affects the credibility of a witness.

§ 705. [695.] Each party shall prove his own aﬁirma-
tive allegations. Evidence need not be given in support
. . .
of a negative allegation, except when such negative a1le-
- - - ,
gatwn is an essential part of the statement of the right
or title on which the cause of action or defense is
founded, nor even in such case when the allegation is the
denial of the existence of a document the custody of
which belongs to the adverse party.
§ 706. [696.] In conformity with the preceding pro
visions, evidence may be given on the trial, of the follow
ing facts:——
1. The precise fact in dispute;
2. The declaration, act, or omission of a party as evi
dence against such party;
3. A declaration or act of another, in the presence and
within the observation of a party, and his conduct in re
lation thereto;
4. The declaration or act, verbal or written, of 0. de
ceased person, in respect to the relationship, birth, mar
riage, or death of any person related by blood or marriage
to such deceased person; the declaration or act of a de
ceased person, made or done against his interest in re
spect to his real property; and also in criminal actions,
the declaration or act of a, dying person, made or done
under a sense of impending death, respecting the cause
of his death.
5. After proof of a partnership or agency, the declara
tion or act of a partner or agent of the party, within the
scope of the partnership or agency, and during its exist
ence; the same rule applies to the declaration or act of a
joint owner, joint debtor, or other person jointly inter
ested with the party;
6. After proof of a conspiracy, the declaration or act
of a conspirator against his co-conspirator, and relating
to the conspiracy;
‘
7. The declaration, act, or omission forming part of
the transaction, as explained in section 686 [676].
8. The testimony of a witness, deceased or out of the
state, or unable to testify, given in a former action, suit,
or proceeding, or trial thereof, between the same parties,
relating to the same matter;
9. The opinion of a witness respecting the identity or
handwriting of a person, when he has knowledge of the
person or handwriting; his opinion on a question of
science, art, or trade, when he is skilled therein;
10. The opinion of a subscribing witness to a writing,
the validity of which is in dispute, respecting the mental
sanity of the signer, and the opinion of an intimate ac
quaintance respecting the mental sanity of a person, the
reason for the opinion being given;
11. Common reputation, existing previous to the con
troversy, respecting facts of a public or general interest,
more than thirty years old, and in cases of pedigree and
boundary;
12. Usage, to explain the true-character of an act, con
tract, or instrument, where such true character is'n0t
otherwise plain; but usage is never admissible except as
a means of interpretation:
13. Monuments and inscriptions in public places as
evidence of common reputation, and entries in family
Bibles or other family books or charts, engravings on
rings, family portraits, and the like, as evidence of pedi
gree;
14. The contents of a writing when oral evidence
thereof is admissible;
15. Any other facts from which the facts in issue are
presumed or are logically inferable;
16. Such facts as serve to show the credibility of a
witness, as explained in section 683 [673].

§ 707. [697.] There are certain facts of such general
notoriety that they are assumed to be already known to
the court. Of those facts evidence need not be produced.
§ 708. [698.] The following facts are assumed to be
thus known:—
1. The true signiﬁcation of all English words and
phrases, and all legal expressions;
2. \Vhatever is established by law;
3. Public and private oﬂicial acts of the legislative,
executive, and judicial departments of this state and of
the United States;
4. The seals of all the courts of this state, and of the
United States;
5. The accession to ofﬁce, and the oﬂicial signatures
and seals of oﬁice of the principal oﬂicers of government
in the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of
this state, and of the United States;
6. The existence, title; national ﬂag, and seal of every
state or sovereign recognized by the executive power of
the United States;
7. The seals of courts of admiralty and maritime ju
risdiction, and of notaries public;
8. The laws of nature, the measure of time, and the
geographical divisions and political history of the world.
In all these cases, the court may resort for its aid to
appropriate books or documents of reference.

§ 709. [£399.] A witness is a person whose declaration
under oath or aﬁrmation is received as evidence for any
purpose, whether such declaration be made on oral ex
amination or by deposition or affidavit.
§ 710. [700.] All persons without exception, except
as otherwise provided in this title, who, having organs
of sense can perceive, and perceiving can make known
their perceptions to others, may be witnesses.
Therefore
neither parties nor other persons who have an interest
in the event of an action, suit, or proceeding are ex
cluded; nor those who have been convicted of crime; nor
persons on account of their opinions on matters of re
ligious belief; although in every case, except the latter,
the credibility of the witness may be drawn in question,
as provided in section 683 [673].

§ 711. [701.] The following persons are not admissi-
ble:—
1. Those of unsound mind at the time of their pro-
duction for examination;
2. Children under ten years of age, who appear in
capable of receiving just impressions of the facts respect
ing which they are examined, or of relating them truly.
§ 712. [702.] There are particular relations in which
it is the policy of the law to encourage conﬁdence, and
to preserve it inviolate; therefore a person cannot be
examined as a witness in the following cases:——
1. A husband shall not be examined for or against
his wife without her consent, nor a wife for or against
her husband without his consent; nor can either, during
the marriage or afterwards, be, without the consent of the
other, examined as to any communication mode by one
to the other during the marriage.
But the exception
does not apply to a civil action, suit, or proceeding, by
one against the other, nor to a criminal action or proceeding
for a crime committed by one against the other;
2. An attorney shall not, without the consent of his
client, be examined as to any communication made by
the client to him, or his advice given thereon, in the
course of professional employment;
3. A priest or clergyman shall not, without the con
sent of the person making the confession, be examined
as to any confession made to him in his professional
character, in the course of discipline, enjoined by the
church to which he belongs;
4. A regular physician or surgeon shall not, without
the consent of his patient, be examined in a civil action,
suit, or proceeding, as to any information acquired in
attending the patient, which was necessary to enable
him to prescribe or act for the patient;
5. A public oﬂicer shall not be examined as to com
munications made to him in otﬁcial conﬁdence, when
the public interest would suffer by the disclosure.
§713. [703.] If a party to the action, suit, or pro
ceeding offer himself as a witness, that is to be deemed
. . -
a consent to the examination also of a wife, husband,
attorney, clergyman, physician, or surgeon on the same
subject, within the meaning of subdivisions 1, 2, 3, and
4 of the last section.

§ 714. [704.] Writings are of two kinds:—
Public; and, ..
2. Private.
§ 715. [705.] Public writings are,--
1. The written acts, or records of the acts, of the
sovereign authority of oﬁicial bodies and tribunals, and
of public oﬂicers, legislative, judicial, and executive,
whether of this state, of the United States, of a sister
state, or of a foreign country.
§ 716. [706.] All other writings are private.
.
§ 717. [707.] Every citizen of this state has a right
to inspect any public writing of this state, except as
otherwise expressly provided by this code or some other
statute_
§ 718. [708.] Every public oﬂicer having the custody
of a public writing which a citizen has a right to in-
spect is bound to give him, on demand, a certiﬁed copy
of it, on payment of the legal fees therefor, and such
copy is primary evidence of the original writing.
§719. [709.] Public writings are divided into four
classes:—
1. Laws;
2. Judicial records;
3. Other ofﬁcial documents;
4. Public records, kept in this state, of private writings.
§ 720. [710] Laws, whether organic or ordinary, are
either written or unwritten.
§ 721. [711.] A written law is that which is promul
gated in writing, and of which a record is in existence.
§'"‘22. 712.] The organic law is the constitution of
the United States and of this state, and is altogether
written. Other written laws are denominated statutes.
The written law of this state is therefore contained in
its constitution and statutes, and in the constitution and
statutes of the United States.
§ 723. [713.] Statutes are public or private.
A pri
-vate statute is one which concerns only certain desig
nated persons, and affects only their private rights. All
other statutes are public, in which are included statutes
creating or affecting corporations.
§ 724. [7l4.] Unwritten law is the law not promul
gated and recorded, as mentioned in section 721'[711],
but which is nevertheless observed and adininistered in
the courts of the state. It has no certain repository, but
is collected from the reports of the decisions of courts
and the treatises of learned men.
§ 7_5. [715] Books, printed or published under. the
authority of a sister state or foreign country, and pur
porting to contain the statutes, code, or other written
law of such state or country, or proved to be commonly
admitted in the tribunals of such state or country as
evidence of the written law thereof, are admissible in
this state as e\.‘idcncc of such law.
§ 7%. [T1G.] The public seal of the state or country,
afiixed to a copy of a written law, is also admissible as
evidence of such law or writing.

§ 727. [7l7.] The oral testimony of witnesses skilled
therein is ad1nissible as evidence of the unwritten law of
a sister state or foreign country, as are also printed and
published books of reports of decisions of the courts of
such state or country, or proved to be commonly admitte
in such courts.
§ 728. [718.] The recitals in a public statute are conelusive
evidence of the facts recited for the purpose of
carrying it into effect, but no further.
The recitals in a
private statute are conclusive evidence of the facts re
cited between parties who claim under its provisions,
but no further.
§ 729. [719.] A judicial record is the record, oﬁicial
entry, or ﬁles of the proceedings in a court of justice, or
of the oﬂicial act of a judicial oﬁicer, in an action, suit,
or proceeding.
§ 730. [720.] A judicial record of this state or of the
United States may be proved by the production of the
original, or by a copy thereof, certiﬁed by the clerk or
other person having the legal custody thereof, with the
seal of the court aﬂixed thereto, if there be a seal. That
of a sister state may be proved by the production of a.
copy thereof, certiﬁed by the clerk or other person hav
ing the legal custody of the record, with the seal of the
court afﬁxed thereto, if there be a seal, together with the
certiﬁcate of the chief judge, or presiding magistrate,
that the certiﬁcate is in due form, and made by the clerk
or other person having the legal custody of the original.
d
§731. [721.] A judicial
record of a foreign country
may be proved by the production of a copy thereof, cer
tiﬁed by the clerk, or other person having the legal
custody of the record, with the seal of the court affixed
thereto, if there be a seal, together with the certiﬁcate of
the chief judge, or presiding magistrate, that the certiﬁ
cate is in due form, and made by the clerk or other per.
son having the legal custody of the original, and also,
together with the certiﬁcate of the secretary of state, or
other oﬁicer of the government having the custody of
the great or principal seal of such government, to the
effect that the court or oﬁicer whose judicial act or pro
ceeding is certiﬁed had jurisdiction to perform the same,
specifying generally the nature of the jurisdiction, and
verifying the signature of the clerk or other legal keeper
of the record, and also the signature of the chief judge
or presiding magistrate.

 732. [722.] A copy of the judicial record of a
foreign country is also admissible in evidence upon
proof,
1. That the copy offered has been compared by the
witness with the original, and is an exact transcript of
the whole of it;
2. That such original was in the custody of the clerk
or other legal keeper of the same; and,
3. That the copy has afﬁxed to it a seal, which is
proved to be the seal of the court where the original
record remains, or if there be no such seal, the signa
ture of the legal keeper of the record.
s
§ 733. [723.] The effect of a judgment, decree, or
ﬁnal order in an action, suit, or proceeding before a
court or judge thereof of this state or of the United States,
having jurisdiction to pronounce the same, is as follows :—
1. In case of a judgment, decree, or order against a
speciﬁc thing, or in respect to the probate of a will or
the administration of the estate of a deceased person, or
in respect to the personal, political, or legal condition or
relation of a particular person, the judgment, decree, or
order is conclusive upon the title to the thing, the will
or administration, or the condition or relation of the
person; 
. In other cases, the judgment, decree, or order is, in
respect to the matter directly determined, conclusive be
tween the parties and their representatives and succes
sors in interest by title subsequent to the commence
ment of the action, suit, or proceeding, litigating for the
same thing, under the same title, and in the same capacity.
§ 734. [724] Otherjudicial orders of a court orjudge
thereof of this state or of the United States create a
disputable presumption concerning the matter directly
determined between the same parties and their repre
scntatives and successors in interest by title subsequent
to the commencement of the action, suit, or proceeding,
litigating for the same thing, under the same title, and
in the same capacity.
§ 735. [725.] The parties are deemed to be the same,
when those between whom the evidence is offered were
adverse to each other in the former case, and a. judg
ment, decree, or other detcrniination could in that case
have been made between them alone, though other parties
were joined with both or either.
See § 733 [T23], ante.
§736. [226.] That only is deemed to have been
determined by a former judgment, decree, or order which
appears upon its face to have been so determined, or
which was actually and necessarily included therein or
necessary thereto.
§ 737. [7 27.] Whenever, pursuant to the last four
sections, a party is bound by a record, and such party
stands in the relation of surety for another, the latter is
also bound from the time that he has notice of the ae-
tion, suit, or proceeding, and a request from the surety
to defend against the same.

 738. [728.] The effect of a judicial record of a sis-
ter state is the same in this state as in the state where it
was made, except that it can only be enforced here by an
action, suit, or proceeding, and except also that the
authority of a guardian or committee, or of an executor
or administrator, does not extend beyond the jurisdiction
of the government under which he was invested with his
authority.
See United States Constitution, art. 4, sec. 1, and note, p. 37, ante.
§ 739. [729.] The effect of a judicial record of a court
of admiralty of a foreign country is the same as if it were
the record of a court of admiralty of the United States.
§ 740. [730.] The effect of the judgment, decree, or
ﬁnal order of any other tribunal of a foreign country,
having jurisdiction to pronounce the same, is as follows:—
1. In case of a judgment, decree, or order against a
speciﬁc thing, the same is conclusive upon the title to
the thing;
2. In case of a judgment, decree, or order against a
person, the same creates a disputable presumption of a
right as between the parties and their representatives
and successors in interest by title subsequent, and can
only be overcome by evidence of a want of jurisdiction,
want of notice to the party, collusion‘, fraud, or clear mis
take of law or fact.
§ 741. [731.] Any judicial record may be impeached
and the presumption arising therefrom overcome by evi
. . . . . . . .
dence of a want of jurisdiction in the court or ]I1d1cl8.l:€c11‘
oﬂicer, or collusion between the parties, or of fraud in
the party offering the record, in respect to the proceed
ings.
§ 742. [732] The jurisdiction sufficient to sustain a.
record is jurisdiction over the cause, over the parties,
and over the thing, when a speciﬁc thing is the subject
of the determination.
§ 743. [733.] Other official documents may be proved
as follows:—
1. Acts of the executive or administrative departments
of this state and of the United States by the records of
such departments, certiﬁed by the heads thereof respect~
ively; they may also be proved by public documents,
prepared or printed by order of the legislative assembly,
or congress, or either house thereof;
2. The proceedings of the legislative assembly of this
state, or of congress, by the journals of those bodies
respectively, or either house thereof, or by statutesor
resolutions published by their order, or by copies thereof
certiﬁed by the clerk or other legal keeper of the origi‘
na-ls;
3. The acts of the executive or administrative depart
ments, or the proceedings of the legislature of a sister
state, in the same manner;
4. The acts of the executive or administrative depart
ments, or the proceedings of the legislature of a foreign
country, by journals, statutes, or resolutions, published
by their authority respectively, or commonly received in
that country as such, or by a copy thereof certiﬁed under
the great or principal seal of such country or the sover
eign thereof, or by a recognition thereof, in or by some
public act of the executive of the United States;
5. Acts of a public corporation of this state, or of a.
board or department thereof, by a copy certiﬁed by the
legal keeper thereof, or by a printed copy published by
the authority of such corporation or department thereof;
6. Documents of any other class in this state or the
United States by the original, or by a copy certiﬁed by
the legal keeper thereof;
7. Documents of any other class in a sister state, by
the original or by a copy certiﬁed by the legal keeper
thereof, together with the certiﬁcate of the secretary of
state, judge of a court of record, or mayor of a city, of
such state, that the copy is duly certiﬁed by the oﬂicer
having the legal custody of the original;
8. Documents of any other class in a foreign country,
by the original or by a copy certiﬁed by the legal keeper
thereof, together with a certiﬁcate under the great or
principal seal of the country or sovereign thereof, that
the document is avalid and subsisting document of such
country, and that the copy is duly certiﬁed by the officer
having the legal custody of the original.
§ 744. [734.] A public record of a private writing
may be proved by the original record, or by a copy
thereof, certiﬁed by the legal keeper of the record.
.
§ 745. [735.] Entries in public "or other official books
or records, made in the performance of his duty by a
public oﬂicer of this state, or of the United States, or by
another person in the performance of a duty specially
enjoined by the law of either, are primary evidence of
the facts stated therein.
§ 746. [736.] A transcript from the record or docket
of a justice of the peace of a sister state, of a judgment
given by him, of the proceedings in the action or pro
eeeding before the judgment and subsequent 1heret0, if
any, veriﬁed in the manner prescribed in the next sec
tion, is primary evidence of the facts stated therein.
§ 747. [737.] There shall be attached to the tran
script a certiﬁcate of the justice having the legal custody
of the record or docket, that the transcript is in all
respects correct and complete, and that the justice who
gave the judgment had jurisdiction of the action, to
gether with the certiﬁcate of the clerk of the county,
having oﬂicial cognizance of the fact, in which the jus
tice resided at the time of giving the judgment, under
the seal of his office, that the person certifying the tran
script was, at the date thereof, a justice of the peace in
the county, and that the signature is genuine.
§ 748. [738.] Whenever a copy of a writing is certi
ﬁed to be used as evidence, the certiﬁcate shall state that
the copy has been compared by the certifying oﬁicer with
the original, and that it is a correct transcript therefrom,
and of the whole of such original, or of a speciﬁed part
thereof. The official seal, if there be any, of the certify
ing oﬂicer, shall also be afﬁxed to such certiﬁcate or any
other certiﬁcate, except when the certiﬁcate of a clerk of
a court is used in the same court, or before an officer
thereof.
§ 749. [739.] The provisions of this title applicable
to the public writings of a sister state are in like man
ner applicable to the public writings of the District of
Columbia or a territory of the United States.
§ 750. [740.] Private writings are either,—
1. Sealed; or,
2. Unsealed.
§751. [741.] A seal is a particular sign, made to
attest in the most formal manner the execution of an
instrument.
§ 752. [742.] A public seal in this state is a stamp
or impression made upon wax, wafer, paper, or any
other like substance, upon which a visible and permanent
impression can be made. A private seal may be made
in the same manner, or it may be made without an im
pression, by a. wafer or wax attached to the instrument,
or by a paper attached to it by an adhesive substance, or
by a scroll or other sign made with a pen. A scroll or
other sign made in a sister state, territory of the United
States, District of Columbia, or a foreign country, and
there recognized as a seal, shall be so regarded in this
state.
§ 753. [743.] The seal aﬂixed to awriting is primary
evidence of a consideration. In other respects there is
no difference between sealed and unsealed writings, ex
cept as to the time of commencing actions or suits there
on. A writing under seal may therefore be modiﬁed or
discharged by a writing not under seal or by an oral
agreement otherwise valid.
§ 754. [744.] The execution of a writing is the sub
3 0
scribing and dcl1\'cr1ng 1t, with or without afhxmg a seal.
§ 755. [7441] An agreement i11 writing, without a
soul, for the coniproniisc or sctt-lc1ncnt of £1 debt or con
troversy, is as obligato1'y as if 21. seal wcrc sflixcd.
§ 750. [Till] The last three sections shall not be con
strued to dispense with 11- soul to 21 deed or other writing
whcrc the sinnc is rcquircd by any stzitutc of this state.
§ 7-57. [741] A subscribing witiicss is one who sees
:1 writing cxccutml, or hours it nclinoxvlcdgcd, and at the
rcqucst of the party thereupon signs his 11111110 as a wit
ncss.
§ 758. [$18.] Historical works, books of science or
art, and pnblislicd maps or clmrts, wlicn niade by per
sons indill‘crcnt bctwccn tho partics, are primary evi
dcncc of facts of gcncrul notoricty and intcrcst.
§ 755). [T4$,‘l.] The origiiial writing,r shall be produced
and proved mccpt as pro\'idc<1l in scctioii (391 [(381]. If
the writing bc in the custody of tho adrcrsc party, he
111ustli1'st li-u\'c rcnsoiiablo notice to produce it. If he
then fail to do so, the contents of the writing may be
proved as in case of its loss. But thc notice to produce
it is not iicccssary wlicrc the writing itsclf is a notice, or
wlicrc it has been wrongfully obtziincd or withheld by
tho H(l\'01‘S0 Pdl‘i-y.
Evidence of contents of writing: Scc ante, §69l [G81].
§7GO. [750] Tliougli :1 writilig called for by one
. . .
party is produced by the other, and 1s thereupon 1n
spcctcd by the party culliiig for it, he is not obliged to
. . . .
oflcr it as cvnlcncc 1n the case.
'
§761. [751.] If there be a subscribing witness to a
writing offered in evidence, its execution shall be proved
by him, if he be living and within the state and can
testify. If there be more than one subscribing witness,
the evidence of one is suﬂicient. If all the subscribing
witnesses be dead, or out of the state, or incapable of
testifying, the handwriting of one of them, and that of
the party, shall be proved.
§ 762. [752.] If the subscribing witness denies, or
does not recollect, the execution of the writing, its exe
cution may then be proved by other evidence.
§ 763. [753.] Where, however, evidence is given that
the party against whom the writing is offered has at any
time admitted its execution, no other evidence of the
execution need be given, if the instrument be one men
tioned in section 766 [756], or one produced from the
custody of the adverse party, and has been acted upon
by him as genuine.
§ 764. [754.] The handwriting of a person may be
shown, by any one who believes it to be his, and who
has seen him write, or has seen writing purporting to
have been his, upon which he has acted or been charged,
and who has thus acquired a knowledge. of his hand
writing.
§ 765. [755.] Evidence respecting the handwriting
may also be given by a comparison, made by a witness
skilled in such matters, or the jury, with writings ad
mitted or treated as genuine by the party against whom
the evidence is offered.
O
'§
E
h
o
$
C
h
e
§766. [756.] When awriting is more than twenty
years old, the comparisons may be made with writings
_ _
purporting to be genuine, and generally respected and
acted upon as such by persons having an interest in
knowing the fact.
§ 767. [7 57.] The entries or other writings of a like
_
character of a person deceased or without the state,
. . .
made at or near the time of the transaction, and in a
position to know the facts stated therein, may be read as
primary evidence of the facts stated therein, in the fol
lowing cases:—
1. \-‘Vhen the entry was made against the interest of
the person making it; or,
2. When it was made in a professional capacity, and
in the ordinary course of professional conduct; or,
3. When it was made in the performance of aduty
specially enjoined by law. .
§ 768. [758.] When an entry is repeated, in the reg
-ular course of business, one being copied from another,
at or near the time of the transaction, all the entries are
equally regarded as originals.
§ 769. [7551] Whenever an object, cognizable by the
senses, has such a relation to the fact in dispute as to
afford reasonable grounds of belief respecting it, or to
make an item in the sum of the evidence, such object
may be exhibited to the jury, or its existence, situation,
and character may be proved by witnesses. The exhibi
tion of such object to the jury shall be regulated by the
sound discretion of the court.
§ 770. [760.] Indirect evidence is of two kinds:—
1. Inferences; and,
2. Presumptions.
§ 771. [761.] An inference is a deduction which the
reason of the jury makes from the facts proved, without
an express direction of law to that effect.
Circumstantial evidence in cussion in the note to Rippey v. Miller,
criminal cases: See the valuable dis- 62 Am. Dec. 179 et seq.
§ 772. [7 62.] A presumption is a deduction which
the law expressly directs to be made from particular facts.
§ 773. [7 63.] An inference must be founded,—
1. On a fact legally proved; and,
2. On such a deduction from that fact as is warranted
by a consideration of the usual propensities or passions
of men, the particular propensities or passions of the
person whose act is in question, the course of business,
or the course of nature.
§ 774. [764.] A presumption, unless declared by law
to be conclusive, may be overcome by other evidence,
direct-or indirect; but unless so overcome, the jury are
bound to ﬁnd according to the presumption.
§ 775. [765.] The following presumptions, and no
others, are deemed conclusive:—
1. An intent to murder, from the deliberate use of a
deadly weapon, causing death within a year;
2. A malicious and guilty intent, from the deliberate
commission of an unlawful act, for the purpose of injur
ing another;
3. The truth of the facts recited from the recital in a
written instrument, between the parties thereto, their
representatives or successors in interest by a subsequent
title; but this rule does not apply to the recital of a con
sideration;
4. Whenever a party has, by his own declaration, act,
or omission, intentionally and deliberately led another
to believe a particular thing true, and to act upon such
belief, he shall not, in any litigation arising out of such
declaration, act, or omission, be permitted to falsify it;
5. A tenant is not permitted to deny the title of his
landlord at the time of the commencement of the relation;
6. That the issue of a wife cohabiting with her hus
band, who is not impotent, is legitimate;
7. The judgment, decree, or order of a court, when de
clared by this code to be conclusive; but such judgment,
decree, or order shall be pleaded, if there be an opportu
nity to do so; and if there be no such opportunity, it
may be used as evidence with like effect;
8. Any other presumption which by statute is ex
pressly made conclusive.
§ 776. [766.] All other presumptions are satisfactory,
unless overcome. They are denominated disputable pre
sumptions, and may be controverted by other evidence.
The following are of that kind:—
1. That a person is innocent of crime or wrong;
2. That an unlawful act was done with an unlawful
intent;
3. That a. person intends the ordinary consequence of
his voluntary act;
4. That a person takes ordinary care of his own con
cerns;
5. That evidence willfully suppressed would be adverse
to the party suppressing it, if produced;
6. That higher evidence would be adverse from infe
rior being produced;
7. That money paid by one to another was due to t
latter;
8. That a thing delivered by one to another belonged
to the latter;
9. That an obligation delivered up to the debtor has
been Paid;
. . .
10. That former rent or installments of a debt have
been paid when a receipt for the latter is produced;
11. That things in the possession of a person are
owned by him;
12. That a person is the owner of property from exer
cising acts of ownership over it or from common reputa
tion of his ownership;
18. That a person in possession of an order on him
self, for the payment of money or the delivery of a thing,
has paid the money or delivered the thing accordingly;
14. That a person acting in a public oﬁice was regu
larly appointed to it,
15. That oiiicial duty has been regularly performed;
16. That a court, or judge acting as such, whether in
this state or any other state or country, was acting in the
lawful e:~;crcise of his jurisdiction;
17. That a judicial record, when not conclusive, does
still correctly determine or set forth the rights of the
parties;
18. That all matters within an issue were submitted
to the jury, and passed upon by them; -
19. That private transactions have been fair and
regular;
‘BU. That the ordinary course of business has been
followed;
‘.21. That a promissory note or bill of exchange was
given or indorscd for a suilicicnt consideration;
22. That an indorscmcnt of a negotiable promissory
note or bill of exchange was made at the time and place
of making the note or bill;
23. That a writing is truly dated;
‘.24. That a letter duly directed and mailed was received
in the regular course of the mail;
25. Identity of person from identity of name;
26. That a person not heard from in seven years is
dead;
27. That acquiescence followed from a belief that the
thing acquiesced in was conformable to the right or
fact;
28. That things have happened according to the ordi
nary course of nature ‘and the ordinary habits of life;
29. That persons acting as copartners have entered
into a contract of eopartnership;
30. That a man and woman deporting themselves as
husband and wife have entered into a lawful contract of
marriage;
31. That a wife acting with her husband in the com
mission of a felony other than murder acted by coercion
and without guilty intent;
32. That a child born in lawful wedlock, there being
no divorce from bed or board, is legitimate;
33. That a thing once proved to exist continues as
long as is usual with things of that nature;
34. That the law has been obeyed;
35. That a document or writing more than twenty
years old is genuine, when the same has been generally
acted upon as genuine, by persons having an interest
in the question, and its custody has been satisfactorily
explained;
36. That a printed and published book purporting to
be printed and published by public authority was so
printed or published;
37. That a printed and published book purporting
to contain reports of cases determined in the tribunals
of the state or country where the book is published
contains correct reports of such cases;
38. That an uninterrupted adverse possession of real
property for twenty years or more has been held pursu
ant to a written conveyance;
39. That a trustee or other person whose duty it was
to convey real property to a particular person has actu
ally conveyed it to him, when such presumption is neces
sary to perfect the title of such person or his successor
in interest;
40. Every sale of personal property, capable of imme
diate delivery to the purchaser, and every a.<signment of
such property, by way of mortgage or security, or upon
any condition whatever, unless the same be accompanied
by an immediate delivery, and be followed by an actual
and continued change of possession, creates a presump
tion of fraud as against the creditors of the seller or
assignor, during his possession, or as against subsequent
purchasers in good faith and for a valuable consideration,
disputablc only by making it appear on the part of the
person claiming under such sale or assignment that the
same was made in good faith, for a sufficient considera
tion, and without intent to defraud such creditors or
purclntsers; but the presumption herein speciﬁed does
not exist in the case of a mortgage duly ﬁled or recorded
as provided by law; -
41. \\-"hen two persons perish in the same calamity,
such as a wreck, a battle, or a conflagration, and it is not
shown who died first, and there are no particular cir
cumstances from which it can be inferred, survivorship
is presumed, from the probabilities resulting from the
strength, age, and sex, according to the following
rules: -—
Fz'mt. If both those who have perished were under the
age of ﬁfteen years, the older is presumed to have sur
Vi\‘0tl;
Second. If both were above the age of sixty years, the
younger is presumed to have survived;
Th.z'rr(I. lf one be under ﬁfteen, and the other above
sixty years, the former is presumed to have survived;
Fom'th. If both be over ﬁfteen and under sixty years,
and the sexes be different, the male is presumed to have
survived; if the sexes be the same, then the older;
1*‘ift»l2.. If one be under ﬁfteen or over sixty years, and
the other between those ages, the latter is presumed to
have survived.

§777. [767.] Certain evidence is necessary to the
validity of particular acts or the proof of particular facts.
§ 778- [768-] Usage, perjury, and treason shall be
. _
proved by the testimony of more than one w1tness;§7
usage by the testimony of at least two witnesses; treason
by the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act;
and perjury by the testimony of two witnesses, or one
witness and corroborating circumstances.
§ 779. [769.] A last will and testament, except when
made by a soldier in actual military service, or by a
mariner at sea, is invalid, unless it be in writing, and
executed with such formalities as are required by law.
Evidence, therefore, of such will shall not be received,
other than the written instrument itself, or secondary
evidence of its contents, in the cases prescribed by law.
'§ 780. [770.] A written will cannot be revoked or
altered otherwise than by another written will, or an-
other writing of the testator, declaring such revocation
or alteration, and executed with the same formalities re-
quired by law for the will itself; or unless the will be
burnt, torn, canceled, obliterated, or destroyed, with the
intent and for the purpose of revoking the same, by the
testator himself, or by another person, in his presence,
7. An agreement concerning real property, made by
an agent of the party sought to be charged, unless the
authority of the agent be in writing.
§786. [776.] No evidence is admissible to charge a
person upon a representation as to the credit, skill, or
character of a third person, unless, such representation;
or some memorandum thereof, be in writing, and either
subscribed by or in the handwriting of the party to be
charged.
§ 787. [777.] The party having the aﬂirmative of the
issue shall produce the evidence to prove it. Therefore
the burden of proof lies on the party who would be de-
. . . . .feated If no evidence were given on either side.

§ 788. [778.] The party producing a writing as genu-
ine which has been altered, or appears to have been
. - . . . _
altered, after Its execution or making, In a part material
to the question in dispute, shall account for the appear
ance or alteration. He may show that the alteration was
made by another without his concurrence, or was made
with the consent of the parties affected by it, or other
wise properly or innocently made, or that the alteration
did not change the meaning or language of the instru
ment. If he do that, he may give the writing in evi
dence, but not otherwise.

§ 789. [779.] The process by which the attendance
of a witness is required is a subpoena. It is a writ
. . . .
directed to person, and requiring h1S attendance, at a
particular time and place, to testify as a witness in a
particular action, suit, or proceeding therein speciﬁed,
on behalf of a particular party therein mentioned. It
may also require him to bring with him any books, doc
uments, or other things under his control which he is
bound by law to produce in evidence.
§ 790. [780.] The subpcena is issued as follows:—
1. To require attendance before a court of record, or
at the trial of an issue therein, or out of such court in
an action, suit, or proceeding pending therein, by the
clerk of such court;
2. To require attendance before a commissioner ap-
pointed to take testimony, by a court of the United
States, or a territory thereof, a sister state, or any for-
eign country, by any clerk of a court of record, in places
within the jurisdiction of such court;
3. To require attendance before the judge, justice of
the peace, or other person authorized by law to take the
testimony or aﬁidavit of another, by such judge, jus
tice of the peace, or other person, in the places within
their respective jurisdiction.
§ 791. [781.] The subpoenas authorized by subdivisions
1 and 2 of the last section, upon the request of a
party or an attorney of the court, shall be issued by the
clerk in blank, and delivered to such party or attorney,
who may thereafter ﬁll up such blank with the name of
the witness or witnesses that he may desire to be sub
poenaed, and cause the same to be served as in this title
required.
§ 792. [782.] A subpoena may be ser-ved by the party
or any other person over eighteen years of age. The
service is made by reading and showing the original, and
delivering a copy or ticket containing its substance to
the witness personally, giving or offering to him at the
same time the fees to which he is entitled for travel to
and from the place designated, and one day’s attendance
there. Such service must be made so as to allow the
witness a reasonable time for preparation and travel to
the place of attendance.
§793. [783.] A sheriff, his deputy, or some person
specially appointed by him, but none other, is authorized
and required to break into any building or vessel in
which a witness may be concealed, so as to prevent the
service of a subpoena, and serve the same upon such wit
ness.
§ 794. [784.] Proof of service of a subpoena shall be
. . .
made in the same manner as 111 the service of a sum
UIODS.
§ 795. [785] A witness is not obliged to attend for
oral examination or otherwise at a place outside of the
county in which he resides, or in which he may be served
with a St1l_)1)CDl11l, unless his residence he within twenty
miles of such place; except that, in an action, suit, or
proceeding pending in a court oi‘ record, the court or
judge thereof, upon the aflidavit of the party, or some
one on his behalf, showing that the testimony of the wit
ness is n1aterial, and his oral e.\an1ination important and
desirable, may indorse upon the subpoena an order for
the attendance of the witness; the service of such sub
pcena and order, and the payment of double fees to the
witness, are suflicient to require his attendance, if he be
served within the state, in the same manner as if he re
sided in the county.
§'T9t5. [Tt>’G.] Apersonpresentin court or before a.
judicial officer may he rc<1uiI‘cd to testify in the same
manner as if he were in attendance before such court or
oiliccr on a suhpoma.
§ T97. [T81] l)isol;iedience to a subpoena, or a refusal
to he sworn, or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an
atlidavit or deposition when required, may be punished
as a contempt hy the court or ollieer before whom he is
required to attend or the re-fusal takes place, and if the
witness he a pai‘ty, his complaint, answer, or reply may
be stricken out.
§ T98. [788] A witness disohe-\;'ing; a subpoena duly
. " ‘* . . .
served shall also torteit to the partv 1'eqt11r1ng ll1S attend
j , V ' .
ance the sum of htty dollars and all damages wh1ch he
may sustain by the failure of the witness to attend;
which i'ort‘eiture and danmges may he recovered by an
action at law.
§ T‘.‘l‘.l. [T;\'€l.] In case of the failure of a witness to
attend, the court or otlicer before whom he is required
to attend, upon proof of the due service of the subpcena
and the failure of the witness, may issue a warrant to
the sheriff of the county, requiring him to arrest the
witness and bring him before the court or oﬂicer where
his attendance was required.
§ 800. [790.] Every warrant of commitment issued
by a court or oﬂicer pursuant to this title shall specify
therein the cause of the commitment; and if it be for
refusing to answer a question, such question shall be
stated in the warrant. A warrant to arrest or commit a
witness shall be directed to the sheriff of the county in
Which the witness is attending or is required to attend.
§ 801. [791.] If the witness be a prisoner, conﬁned
in a prison within this state, an order for his examina
tion in the prison upon deposition, or for his temporary
removal and production, before a court or oﬂicer, for the
purpose of being orally examined, may be made as fol
lows:— \
1. By the court or judge thereof in which the action,
suit, or proceeding is pending, unless it be a court of a
justice of the peace;
2. By any judge of a court of record, when the action,
suit, or proceeding is pending in a justice’s court, or
when the witness’s deposition, affidavit, or oral examina
tion is required before a judge or other person out of
court;
3. Such order shall only be made upon the aiﬁdavit
of the party desiring the order, or some one on his be
half, showing the nature of the action, suit, or proceeding,
the testimony expected from the witness, and its materi
ality; ,
4. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where
the action, suit, or proceeding is pending, and for a cause
other than a sentence for felony, his production may be
required; in all other cases, his examination shall be
taken by deposition,
§ 8052. [T92] The testimony of a witness is taken in
three n1odes:——
1- B) dilI(ld\1i,
Y ‘ - f V. 0
‘Z. By deposition;
By oral examination.
§S()3. [T‘.,>3.] An affidavit is a written declaration
under oath, made without notice to the adverse party.
§8tl-I. [TUI] A deposition is a written deelaration
under oath, made upon notice to the adverse party, for
the purpose of enabling him to attend and cross-examine.
§ 805. [T‘.)5.] An oral exanﬁnation is an examina
tion in the presence of the jury or tribunal Whieh is to
decide the fact, or act upon it, the testimony being heard
by the jury from the mouth of the witness.
Oral examination must be under oath or aﬁirmation: See § G82 [G72].
§ 806. [T€)(‘3.] In all afﬁdavits and depositions, the
witness must be made to speak in the ﬁrst person. De
positions shall be taken in the form of question and
. . -.
answer, unless the parties agree to a ditierent mode.
§ 807. [T91] An atiidavit or deposition taken in an
other state of the United States or a territory thereof,
the Distriet of Columbia, or in a foreign country, other
wise than upon eoininission, must be authentieated as
follows, before it can be used in this state:—
1. It must be certiﬁed by a eoininissioner, appointed
by the governor of this state to take aﬁiclavits and dep
ositions in such other state, territory, district, or coun
try; or,
2. It must be certiﬁed, by a judge of a court having a
clerk and a seal, to have been taken and subscribed before
him, at a time and place therein speciﬁed, and the
. , _
existence of the court, the fact that suchqudge 1s a mem-
ber thereof, and the genuineness of his signature shall
be certiﬁed by the clerk of the court, under the seal
thereof.
§ 808. [798.] An affidavit may be used to prove the
service of a summons, notice, or other paper in an action,
suit, or proceeding to obtain a provisional remedy, the
examination of a witness, or a stay of proceedings, or
upon a motion, and in any other case expressly provided
by this code or other statute of the state, except as pro
vided in the next section.
§ 809. [799.] Whenever a provisional remedy has
been allowed upon affidavit, the party against whom it
is allowed may serve upon the party by whom it was ob-
tained a notice, requiring the person making the aﬂidavit
to be produced before some ofﬁeer authorized to
administer oaths, therein named, for cross-examination.
Thereupon the party to whom the remedy was allowed
shall lose the beneﬁt of the afﬁdavit and all proceedings
founded thereon, unless within eight days, or such other
time as the court or judge thereof may direct, upon a
- previous notice to his adversary of at least three days,
he produce the deponent for examination before the offi
cer mentioned in the notice, or some other of like au
thority, provided for in the order of the court or judge.
Upon such production, the deponent may be examined
by either party; but a party shall not be obliged to pro
duce awitness for examination as in this section pro
vided, except within the county where tho provisional
remedy was allowed.
§ 810. [S0O.] Proof of the publication of a document
or notice required by law, or by an order of court or a
judge, to be published in a newspaper, may be made by
the aflidavit of the printer of the newspaper, or his fore
man or principal clerk, annexed to a copy of the docu
ment or notice, specifying the times when and the paper
in which the publication was made. But such afﬁdavit
must be made within six months after the last day of
publication.
§ 811. [$01.] If such afﬁdavit he made in an action,
suit, or proceeding pending in a court, it may be ﬁled
with the clerk thereof; if not so made, it may be filed with
the clerk of the county where the newspaper is printed.
In either case, the original aili(,la\'it, or if the same be
ﬁled with the clerk, a copy thereof, duly certitied,‘is pri
mary evidence of the facts stated therein.

§ 812. [$02.] In all cases other than those mentioned
in section 805 [79S], where a written declaration under
oath is used, it must be a deposition as prescribed by
this code.
9' 813. [£303.] The testimony of a witness out of the
state may be taken by deposition in an action at law, at
any time after the service of the summons or the appear
ance of the defendant, and in a special procct-<;ling at
any time after a (picstion of fact has arisen therein.
814. [$04.] The testimony of a witness in this state
may be taken by deposition, in an action at law, at any
time after the service of the sunnnons, or the appearance
of the defendant; and in a special proceeding after a
question of fact has arisen therein, in the following
cases:— ~
.1. When the witness is a party to the action or pro
ceeding by the adverse party;
2. When the witness’s residence is such that he is not
obliged to attend in obedience to a subpoena, as provided
in section 795 [785];
3. When the witness is about to leave the county
and go more than twenty miles beyond the place of trial ;
4. When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the
trial, is nevertheless too inﬁrm to attend;
5. When the testimony is required upon a motion, or
in any other case where the oral examination of the wit
ness is not required.
Laws of 1874, p. 97.
§815. [805.] Whenever a suit in equity is at issue
upon a question of fact, the court may refer the same to
a referee, as provided in section 397 [393] of this code,
to take the testimony in the case, and report the same to
the court within such time as the court may direct; the
court may also direct the referee to state, in his report,
the conclusions of fact, or facts and law, as found by him.
In such case the witness shall be examined before the
referee, provided they reside within the county, or Within
twenty miles of the place of hearing of the said reference,
and their testimony reduced to writing and subscribed
in the same manner as in ordinary cases of reference,
and in case the referee is directed to state the conclusion
of fact, or of facts and law, found by him, the testimony
of witnesses residing out of the county, and more than
twenty miles from such place of hearing, may be heard
before the referee by deposition. The referee, in takingr
testimony in any case referred to him, shall have all the
power and authority conferred upon the court, so far as
ruling upon the admissibility of evidence; provided, how
ever, that either party may except to the ruling of the
referee, which exception shall be noted by the referee.
§ 816. [806.] The deposition of a witness out of the
state may be taken upon commission issued from the
court, or without commission before a commissioner
appointed by the governor of this state to take deposi
tions in other states or countries.
§ 817. [807.] The commission may be issued by the
clerk of the court, or by a justice of the peace in a cause
in his own court, on the application of either party, upon
ﬁve days’ previous notice to the other. It shall be issued
to a person agreed upon by the parties, or if they do not
agree, to a judge, justice of the peace, notary public, or
clerk of a court, selected by the oﬁicer issuing it.
§ 818. [£508.] Such interrogatories, direct and cross,
as the respective parties may prepare, to be settled by the
clerk or justice in a summary manner as to the form
thereof, if the parties disagree, may be annexed to the
commission, or when the parties agree to that mode, the
examination may be without written interrogatories.
§ 819. [809.] The commission shall authorize the
commissioner to administer an oath to the witness, and
to take his deposition in answer to the interrogatories,
or when the examination is to be without them, in re
spect to the question in dispute, and to certify the depo
sition to the court in a sealed envelope, directed to the
clerk or justice who issued the commission, or other per
son designated and agreed upon, and forwarded to him
by mail, or other usual channel of conveyance.
Form of certiﬁcate: See Clark v. Ellis, 9 Or. 128.
§ 820. [810.] A trial or other proceeding shall not be
postponed by reason of a commission not being returned,
except it appear by aﬁidavit that the testimony of the
witness is material and necessary, and that proper dili
gence has been used to obtain it.
See § 178 [177].
§ 821. [811.] The deposition of a witness out of this
state and in any other of the United States, a territory
thereof, or the District of Columbia, may also be taken
before a commissioner, appointed by the governor of
this state to take depositions in such other state, terri
tory, or district, upon giving to the adverse party eight
days’ notice of the time and place of examination, the
name of the commissioner and the witness, if the distance
of the place of examination from the place where the tes
timony is to be used do not exceed ﬁfty miles, and one
day in addition for every additional twenty-ﬁve miles.
Notice: See § 817 [807].
§ 822. [812.] Either party may attend upon such
examination, and examine the witnesses upon oral inter
rogatories, but if either party by written notice to the
other, within three days from the service of the original
notice, require it, it shall be taken upon written inter
rogatories, to be settled, if not agreed upon, by the same
ofiicer and in the same manner as in case of deposition
upon commission; and in such case the deposition‘ shall
be taken, certiﬁed, and directed by the commissioner in
the some manner as a deposition upon coinmission.

§ 823. [£13.] Either party may take the testimony of
a witiicss in this state by deposition, in the cases allowed
by this code, bcforc the clerk of the [a?] court of record,
or other pcr.~:on authorized to administer oaths, on giving
the :ufl\'(.~1'so }):11'ty prcvious notice of the time and place
of cxzlniinntion, the nnnic of tho oﬁiccr and the witness;
such notice shall be at least three days, if the distance
of the place of cxaiiiination from the residence of the
person to whom the notice is given do not exceed twenty
ﬁvo miles, and one day in addition for every additional
twc11tt\'-ﬁve miles, unless the court or judge thereof by
order prescribe a shorter time. \Vhcn a shorter time is
prcscril>ed the order shall be served with the notice.
Ila“-'5 of 1874, p. 98.
Service of notice: Soc 5'26 [516] to 533 [523] inclusive.
§ Sill. [SILL] Eitlicr party 111:1)’ nttcml upon such ex
aminz1l.i.on and examine the witness upon oral interroga
tories. The dcposition shall be written Irv the oﬁicer
takiiig the sonic, or by the witiicss, or by some disinter
cstcd pcrson, in the prcsciicc and under the direction of
such oﬁiccr. Wllcii coinplctcd, it shall be read to or by
the witness, and subscribed by him. Before subscrib-
ing it, the witness shall be allowed, if he desire it, to
correct or explain any statement in the deposition, but
such statement, although corrected and explained, shall
remain a part of the deposition.
§ 825. [$15.] The oﬁicer taking the deposition shall
append thereto his certiﬁcate, under the seal of his office,
if there be a seal, to the effect that the deposition was
taken before him, at a place mentioned, between certain
hours of a day or days mentioned, and reduced to writ
ing bya person therein named; that before proceeding
to the examination, the witness was duly sworn to tell
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth;
that the deposition was read to or by the witness, and
then by him subscribed.
Form of certiﬁcate: See Clark v. Ellis, 9 O1-. 128.
§ 826. [816.] The oiiicer taking the deposition shall
inclose the same in a sealed envelope, directed to the
clerk of the court or the justice of the peace before whom
the action, suit, or proceeding is pending, or such other
person as may by writing be agreed upon, and deliver or
forward the same accordingly, by mail or other usual
channel of conveyance.
§ 827. [817.] Adeposit-ion taken pursuant to the pro
visions of this chapter may be used by either party upon
the trial or proceeding, against any party giving or rc
ceiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions. But no
objections can be made at the trial to the relevancy of the
testimony or the form of the interrogatory, unless the
same appear by the deposition or written interrogatories
to have been taken at the time of the examination or the
settling ofsuch interrogatories. Section 824 [814], except
the ﬁrst sentence thereof, and' sections 825 [815] and
S26 [S16], shall apply to depositions taken out of the state
on oral interrogatories.
§828. [818.] If a deposition be taken under subdi
visions 2, ‘3, or 4 of section 814 [804], before the same
can be used, proof shall be made that the witness did
reside beyond the service of a. subpoena, or that he still
continues absent or inﬁrm, as the case may be. A depo
sition taken, whether in the state or without, upon insuf
cient notice or otherwise, not substantially in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, may be excluded from
the case, unless such insuﬂicient notice or other omis
sion has been waived by the consent or conduct of the
adverse party.
§ 829. [819.] When a deposition has been once taken,
it may be read in the same action, suit, or proceeding, or
in any other action, suit, or proceeding between the same
parties, or their representatives upon the same subject,
and is then to be deemed the evidence of the party read
ing it. When any portion of a deposition is excluded
from 'a case, so much of the adverse examination as
relates thereto is excluded also.
§ 830. [$20.]
by the sound discretion of the court.
The order of proof shall be regulated
Ordinarily, the
party beginning the case shall exhaust his evidence be-
fore the other begins.
§83l. [$21.] If either party require it, the judge
may exclude from the court-room any witness of the ad
verse party not at the time under examination, so that
he may not hear the testimony of other witnesses.
§S32. [821] When a witness does not understand
and speak the English language, an interpreter shall be
sworn to interpret for him.
§833. [823.] The court may exercise a reasonable
control over the mode of interrogation, so as to make it
as rapid, as distinct, as little annoying to the witness,
and as effective for the extraction of the truth as may be;
but subject to this rule, the parties may put such legal
and pertinent questions as they see ﬁt.
The court, how
ever, may stop the production of further evidence, upon
any particular point, when the evidence upon it is al
ready so full as to preclude reasonable doubt.
§ 834. [824.] The examination of a witness by
party producing him is denominated the direct examina
tion; the examination of the same witness upon the same
matter, by the adverse party, the cross-examination.
the
The direct examination must be completed before the
cross-examination begins, unless the court otherwise
direct.
§ 835. [825.] A question which suggests to the wit
ness the answer which the examining party desires is
denominated a leading or suggestive question.
direct examination, leading questions are not allowed,
unless merely formal or preliminary, except~in the sound
discretion of the court, under special circumstances,
making it appear that the interests of justice require it.

§ 836. [826.] A witness is allowed to refresh his
memory, respecting a fact, by anything written by him
self, or under his direction, at the time when the fact
occurred or immediately thereafter, or at any other time
when the fact was fresh in his memory, and he knew
that the same was correctly stated in the writing. But
in either case the writing must be produced, and may
be inspected by the adverse party, who may, if he choose,
cross-examine the witness upon it, and may read it to
So, also, a witness may testify from such a
the jury.
writing, though he retain no recollection of the particu
lar facts; but such evidence shall be received with
caution.
§ 837. [827.] The adverse party may cross-examine
the witness, as to any matter stated in his direct exami
nation, or connected therewith, and in so doing, may put
feading questions; but if he examine him as to other
matters, such examination is to be subject to the same
rules as a direct examination.
§ 837
s ass. [s~2s.]
O
'.l‘he party producing a witness is not
allowed to impeach his credit by evidence of bad char
acter, but he may contradict him by other evidence, and
may also show that he has made at other times state
ments inconsistent with his present testimony, as pro
vided in section 841. [C31].

§ 837
A witness once examined shall not be
re-examined as to the same matter without leave of the
court; but he may be re-e.\'amined as to any new matter
1 pon whi<-li he has been examined by the adverse party.
1\t'ter the e.\'aminations on both sides are concluded, the
witness shall not be 11;-callwl without leave of the court.
Leave is _<_;ra1ited or withheld in the exercise of a sound
tli.<(,'I‘('diH11.
§840. [830.] A witness
may be impeached by the
party against whom he was called, by contradictory
evidence, or by evidence that his general reputation for
truth is bad, or that his moral character is such as to‘
render him unworthy of belief, but not by evidence of
particular wrongful acts; except that it may be shown
by the examination of the witness or the record of the
judgment that he has been convicted of a crime. '
§ 841. [831.] A witness may also be impeached by
evidence that he has made, at other times, statements
inconsistent with his present testimony; but before this
can be done, the statements must be related to him, with
the circumstances of times, places, and persons present;
and he shall be asked whether he has made such state
ments, and if so, allowed to explain them.
If the'state
ments be in writing, they shall be shown to the witness
before any question is put to him concerning them.

§ 837 42. [$32.] lividcnce of the good clmracter of a‘
. . . .
partv is not admissible 111 a (‘l\'1l action, suit, or proceed
_ " , . . .
111g, unless the issue thcrc1n 1n\'ol\'c his clizimcter, nor
of a witness in any action, suit, or proceeding, until the
cliaractcr of such witness has been impeached.

§843. [$331.] Whenever writing is shown to a wit
ness, it 111:1)’ be inspected by the :id\'c1'se party, and if
proved by the witncss,sl1'.1ll be I'(‘(U.l to the jury before
his tcstilnony is closed, or it shall not be 1'cad, except on
recalling the witness.
§8~l-1. [$34.]
The judge himself‘, or any juror, may
be called as a witness by either party, but in the former
case it is in the discretion of the (:ou1't or judge to order
the trial to be postponed or suspended, and to take place
before anotlicr judge.

§ 845. [$35.] The jury, subject to the control of the
court, in the cases spccilicd in this code are the judges of
the effect or value of evidence addressed to them, except
when it is thereby declared to be conclusi"e. They are,
however, to be instructed by the court on all proper
occasions.
1. That their power of judging of the effect of evi
dence is not arbitrary, but to be exercised with legal dis
cretion, and in subordination to the rules of evidence;
2. That they are not bound to ﬁnd in conformity with
the declarations of any number of witnesses, which do
not produce conviction in their minds, against a less
number, or against a presumption or other evidence
satisfying their minds; .
3. That a witness false in one part of his testimony is
to be distrusted in others;
4. That the testimony of an accomplice ought to be
viewed with distrust, and the oral admissions of a party
with caution;
5. That in civil cases the affirmative of the issue shall
be proved, and when the evidence is contradictory, the
ﬁnding shall be according to the preponderance of evi
dence; that in criminal cases guilt shall be established
beyond reasonable doubt;
6. That evidence is to be estimated, not only by its
own intrinsic weight, but also according to the evidence
which it is in the power of one side to produce and of
the other to contradict; and therefore,
7. That if the weaker and less satisfactory evidence is
offered when it appears that stronger and more satisfac
tory was within the power of the party, the evidence
offered should be viewed with distrust.
§ 846. [$36.] It is the duty of a witness, duly served
with a subpoena, to attend at the time appointed, with
any papers, hooks, documents, or other thing under his
control required lay the subpcena, to answer all pertinent
and legal questions, and unless sooner discharged, to re
main till the t.estinion_\' is closed; but a witness, at the
end of each day’s atten<lanee, lnay demand of the party
or his tlti()I‘Il(‘§' the payinent of his legal fees for the next
following day, and it‘ not then paid, he is not obliged to
remain longer in attendance.
§ 8-117. [$37. A witness shall answer questions legal
and pertinent to the in-att-er in issue, though his answer
may establish a elaim against hi1nsell'. But he need not
give an answer whieh will have a direct tendency to sub
ject him to punislnnent for a felony, or to degrade his
eliaraeter, unless, in the latter ease, it be as to the very
faet in issue, or to a faet fI‘Oll1 which the fact in issue
would he presuined. This privilege is the privilege of
the witness, and the ol>‘jeet.ion cannot be 1nade by a party
or his attorney; but a witness must answer as to the fact
of his p1'e\'ious (‘(i)I1\'l('il(‘)1l for l‘elony.

§ 848. [$35.] It is the right ofa witness to be pro
teeted froin iwelevant, insulting, or improper questions,
and t'1'oni harsh or insultingr denieanor; to be detained
only so long as the interests of _iu.st'iee 1‘e<'lui1'e it; to be
exan1ine<;l only as to matters legal and pertinent to the
issue.
§*\'4"l- [\33tl] E\'<~1'_\;' person who has been, in good
faith, ser\'ed with a Slll)IHL‘llil to attend as a witness be
‘ , . .
tore a. eourt, nnlge, eo1ninissioner, ret"eree, or other officer,
. ,
ls e:\;one1‘ated f1'()1i1 arrest, 111. a (:1\'1l ease, wlnlo going 130
the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there,
The arrest of a witness contrary
returning therefrom.
to this section is void, and when willfully made, is a con
tempt of the court; and the officer making it is responsi
ble to the witness arrested, for double the amount of the
damages which may be assessed against him therefor,
and is also liable to an action at the suit of the party
serving the witness with the subpmna, for the damages
sustained by him in consequence of the arrest.
an (1
§ 850. [840.] But the oﬂicer making the arrest is not
liable in any way therefor, unless the person claiming
. . . . .
the exemption make, if required, an aﬂidawt stating,-—
1. That he has been served with a subpoena to attend
as a witness before a. court, judge, or other oﬂicer, speci
fying the samc, the place of attendance, and the action,
suit, or proceeding in which the subpoena was issued;
and,
2. That he has not been thus served by his own pro
curement, .with the intention of avoiding an arrest.
The affidavit may be taken by the officer, and exon
crates him from liability for not making the arrest, or
for discharging the witness when arrested.
§ 851. [841.] The court,judge, or officer before whom
the attendance of the witness is required may discharge
awitness from an arrest made in violation of section 849
[8391
§ 852. [842] An offer in writing to pay a particular
sum of money, or to deliver a written instrument or
speciﬁc personal property, is, if not accepted, equivalent
to the actual production and tender of the money, instrument,
or property.

§853. [843.] Whoever pays money, or delivers an
instrument or property, is entitled to a receipt therefor,
from the person to whom the payment or delivery is
made, and may demand a proper signature to such receipt
as a condition of the payment or delivery.
§ 854. [844.] The person to whom a tender is made
shall at the time specify any objection he may have to
the money, instrument, or property, or he must be
deemed to have waived it; and if the objection be to the
amount of money, the terms of the instrument, or the
amount or kind of property, he must specify the amount,
terms, or kind which he requires, or be precluded from
objecting afterwards.
§855. [845.] The following are the rules for construing
the descriptive part of a conveyance of real prop
erty, when the construction is doubtful, and there are
no other suﬁicient circumstances to determine it:—
1. Where there are certain deﬁnite and ascertained
particulars in the description, the addition of others,
which are indeﬁnite, unknown, or false, does not frustrate
the conveyance, but it is to be construed by such particulars,
if they constitute a suﬂicient description to ascer
tain its application;
2. When permanent and visible or ascertained boun-t
ldaries or monuments are inconsistent with the measure
ment, either of lines, angles, or surfaces, the boundaries
or monuments are paramount;
3. Between diﬁ'erent measurements which are incon
sistent with each other, that of angles is paramount to
that of surfaces, and that of lines paramount to both;
4. \Vhen a road or stream of water not navigable is
the boundary, the rights of the grantor to the middle of
the road, or the thread of the stream, are included in the
conveyance, except where the road or bed of the stream
is held under another title;
\ 5. When tide-water is the boundary, the rights of the
grantor to low-water mark are included in the convey
ance, and also the right of this state between high and
low water mark;
6. When the description refers to a map, and that
reference is inconsistent with other particulars, it con
trols them, if it appear that the parties acted with refer
ence to the map; otherwise the map is subordinate to
other deﬁnite and ascertained particulars.
§856. [846.] An offer of compromise is not an ad-
mission that anything is due; but admissions of particular
facts, made in negotiation for compromise, may
be
proved, unless otherwise specially agreed at the time.
§ s57.
[847.] In a suit for the dissolution of the mar
riage contract, onpthe ground of adultery, a confession of
adultery, whether in or out of the pleadings, is not of
itself suﬁicient to justify a decree of dissolution.

§ 858. [848.] The testimony of a. witness may be
taken conditionally and perpetuated, as provided in this
title.
"§ 859. [849.] The order for taking the testimony may
be made by any judge of the circuit or supreme courts,
upon the application of the party desiring it, when it
appears from the petition of such party, veriﬁed as a
complaint,-—
1. That the applicant is a party or expects to be a
party to an action, suit, or proceeding in a court in this
state, or that he has an interest in real property or some
easement or franchise therein, about which a controversy
may arise, which would be the subject of such an action,
suit, or proceeding;
2. That the testimony of a witness, whose name and
place of residence is stated, is material to the prosecu
tion or defense, as the case may be, of such action, suit,
or proceeding, or possible controversy, and generally the
question involved therein, and the facts expected to be
proved by the witness;
3. The names and residence of the adverse parties or
persons adversely interested, so far as the 1Applicant
knows or can ascertain them. The judge may thereupon
in his discretion make an order allowing the examina
tion, prescribing therein the place thereof, and how long
before the examination the order and notice of the time
and place therefor shall be served.
§ 860. [850.] If it appear that the adverse parties or
persons adversely interested, or any of them, reside out
of the state, or are unknown, the judge shall direct that,
as to such parties or persons, service of the order and
notice shall be made by publication, in the same manner
as a summons. Upon proof of the service, the deposition
may be taken conditionally by the judge who made the
order of examination, or by any other officer or person
therein designated.
§ 861. [851.] Every interrogatory or answer, or dec
laration of the witness, shall be taken down, unless the
parties otherwise agree. The deposition, when com
pleted, shall be carefully read to and subscribed by the
witness, and then certiﬁed by the judge or other oﬁicer
or person taking the same, and immediately thereafter
ﬁled in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the county where it was
taken, together with the order for the examination of the
witness, the petition on which the same was granted, the
notice, and the proof of service of the order and notice.
§ 862. [852.] The papers ﬁled with the deposition, as
required by the last section, or a certiﬁed copy thereof,
are primary evidence of the facts stated therein, to show
compliance with the provisions of this title.
§ 863. [853.] If thereafter a trial be had between the
persons named in the petition as parties actual, expect
ant, or possible, or their representatives or successors
in interest, upon proof of the death or insanity of the
witness, or that he is beyond the state and his residence
unknown, or of his inability to attend the trial by reason
of age, sickness, or settled inﬁrmity, the deposition or a
certiﬁed copy thereof may be given in evidence by either
party; but in a trial in a suit in equity, it may be given
in evidence without such proof.
§ 864. [854.] The deposition so taken, when produced
in evidence, may be objected to as if it was the oral testi-
mony of the witness, except that the form of the inter-
rogatory shall not be objected to.
§ 865. [855.] The judge, oﬁicer, or other person taking
the deposition shall control the examination, to the
end that the whole truth may be declared by the witness,
and if no one appears other than the applicant, he shall
_prevent leading and suggestive interrogatories by such
applicant, except when the same may be necessary or
merely formal, and shall himself cross-examine the wit
ness, concluding with the general interrogatory to the
effect whether the witness knows anything further in re
lation to the matter which would be of beneﬁt to either
party.
§866. [856.] Every court, judge, clerk of a court
justice of the peace, or notary public is authorized t
take testimony in any action, suit, or proceeding, and
such other persons in particular cases as this code else
where authorizes. Every such court or ofﬁccr is author
ized to administer oaths and affirmations generally, and
every such other person in the particular case authorized.
§867. [857.] An oath may be administered £1
follows: The person who swears holds up his hand
while the person administering the oath thus addresses
him: “ You do solemnly swear that the evidence you
shall give in the issue (or matter) now pending be
tween and shall be the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth, so help you God”; if the
oath be administered to any other than a witness, the
same form and manner may be used.
§868. [858.] Whenever the court or oﬂicer before
which a person is offered as a witness is satisﬁed that he
has a peculiar mode of swearing, connected with or in
addition to the usual form of administration, which, in
his opinion is more solemn or obligatory, the court or
oﬁicer may in its discretion adopt that mode.
§ 869. [859.] \Vhen a person is sworn who believes
in any other than the Christian religion, he may be
sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his reli
gion, if there be any such.
§ 870. [860.] Any person who has conscientious scru
ples against taking an oath may make his solemn affir
mation by assenting when addressed in the following
manner: “You do solemnly aﬁirm that,” etc., as in section
867 [857].
§871. [861.] Whenever by any provision of this
code an oath is required, an aﬂirmation, as prescribed in
the last section, is to be deemed equivalent thereto, and
a false aﬂirmation is to be deemed perjury equally with
a false oath.
§ 872. [862] The supreme court is created and or
ganized, and its jurisdiction limited and deﬁned, by the
organic law of the state, article VII. of the constitution.
The mode of bringing a cause into this court, and the
mode of proceeding therein, is elsewhere provided in this
code. The presence of a majority of all the judges of the
court is necessary for the transaction of any business
therein, but any less number may meet and adjourn
from day to day, or for the term, with the same effect as
if all were present.
§ 873. The duties and jurisdiction of said supreme
court and the judges thereof shall be such as are pro
vided by the constitution and the laws.
§ 874. The supreme court in term time, or a majority
of the judges thereof in vacation, shall appoint a clerk of
the court, who shall hold his oﬂice during the pleasure
of such court.

§ 875. The per diem due said clerk from the state, as
provided by law, shall be ascertained by the court, and
directed to be paid by an order of the court; and it shall
be the duty of the secretary of state, on the presentation
to him of a certiﬁed copy of such order, to draw his
warrant on the state treasurer in favor of such clerk for
the amount so directed to be paid, and he shall be allowed
to charge and receive the same fees as are now allowed
the clerk of the supreme court. 
§ 876. The clerk of the supreme court is prohibited,
during his continuance in oﬂ‘ice, from acting, or having
. .
a partner who acts, as an attorney 1n said court._
§ 877. [863.] The court in term, or a majority of the
judges thereof in vacation, shall appoint a clerk of the
_ _
court, who shall hold his ofﬁce durmg the pleasure of
such court or judges. The executive officer of the court
is the sheriff, for the time being, of the county in which
the court is being held. The court may appoint a crier,
and such number of bailiffs for the term as may be
necessary. The legal fees of such clerk, sheriff, crier,
and bailiffs for attendance on the court shall be ascertained
by the court, and directed to be paid by an order
of the court. The amount of such fees so ascertained
and ordered are payable out of the state treasury, and it
is the duty of the proper officer, on the presentation of a
certiﬁed copy of such order, to draw his warrant on such
treasury therefor.
§ 878. [864.] The circuit courts are created and organized,
and their several jurisdictions limited and de
ﬁned, by the organic law of the state, article VII. of the
constitution. The terms of the court are either those
appointed by law, or others appointed by the judge of
the court.
Terms of court: See post, § 891 [865].
§879. The duties and jurisdiction of said circuit
courts and the judges thereof shall be such as are provided
by the constitution and the laws.
§880. The duties and jurisdiction of the circuit
courts of the sixth judicial district, and of the judge
thereof, shall be such as are provided by the constitution
and the laws.

§ ss1.
The duties and jurisdiction of the seventh
judicial district and of the judge thereof, and the duties
of the prosecuting attorney thereof, shall be such as are
provided by the constitution and the laws.

§ 882. The duties, jurisdiction, and powers of said
circuit judge [the additional circuit judge of the fourth
district] shall be such as are prescribed by the constitu-
.
tion and laws of the state, except as heremafter otherwise
expressly provided, and his salary shall be the same
as that of other circuit judges, and payable in the same
manner.
§883. The business of the circuit court of said dis-€'
trict shall be divided, and for convenience one division
thereof shall be designated as department No. 1, and the
other as department No. 2. All actions at law now pend
ing in said circuit court, or that may hereafter be pend
ing, including all actions commenced therein, or that
may be brought there by appeal, or otherwise, from any
inferior court, oﬂicer, or tribunal, or any other court,
shall be heard and determined in department No. 1, in
the same manner, to the same extent, and with like effect
as though this act had not passed, except as herein other
wise expressly provided. All suits in equity and all
applications to the equity side of the court now pending
in said court, or that may hereafter be commenced or
otherwise pending there, including appeals from the
county courts in the nature of equitable proceedings,
and all suits or proceedings in divorce and for the disso
lution of the marriage contract, and partition, shall be
heard and determined in department No. 2, in the same
manner and to the same extent, and with like eﬁ‘ect, as
though this act had not passed, except as herein otherwise
provided. All indictments now pending in said court, or
that may hereafter be found or pending therein, and all
criminal proceedings, and all business relating to criminal
proceedings of every nature or description conimenced
or brought into said court, shall be transacted, heard,
and determined in department No. 2, in the same man
ner and to the same extent, and with like effect as though
this act had not passed, except as herein otherwise ex
_
pressly provided. 

§ 884. All business found in one department belong
ing to the other, according to_the above classiﬁcation,
may be transferred by order of the court, so as to be
heard and determined in the proper department; but it
shall be lawful to do any of the business of said court in
either department.
§ 885. It shall be the duty of the clerk of said court
to arrange the papers and ﬁles in his oﬂice, so as to carry
out the purposes of this act.
§ 886. The judges of said court shall jointly and sev
erally have power to make all needful rules and regula-V
tions not inconsistent with law to effectuate the object of
this act and facilitate the transaction of business.
§887. The senior judge in commission, or if other
[their] commissions are of even date, the senior judge in
, .
age, shall act in department No. 1, and the other judge
in department No. 2; but either judge may act in either
department. 
§ 888. In addition to the circuit judges now provided
for by law, there shall be elected on the ﬁrst Monday of
June, 1888, and on the same day of J une every six years
thereafter, a circuit judge in and for the sixth judicial
district of the state of Oregon, who shall possess the
qualiﬁcations prescribed by law for circuit judges of this
state, and whose term of office shall begin on the ﬁrst
Monday, of July, 1888, and who shall hold oﬁice and dis
charge the duties thereof for six years from said day, and
until his successor is elected and qualiﬁed.
§ 889. The duties, powers, and jurisdiction of said
judge shall be such as are prescribed by the constitution
and laws of this state, and his salary shall be the same as
that of other circuit judges of this state, and payable in
the same manner.
See the note to the preceding section.
§ 890. The duties and judicial labors of the judges of
said district shall be divided and apportioned as they
may agree between themselves; provided, that each judge
of said district shall perform as nearly as possible one
half of the judicial duties of said district; provided fur-
th-er, that nothing in this act shall be construed to inter
fere with or abrogate any of the powers or duties vested
in or required of Hon. Luther B. Ison, present circuit
judge of said district, except as to division of labor, as
herein provided.
See the note to § 888.
§ 891. [865.] When a term of the court is appointed
by a judge it shall be done by a general order to that
effect, made and entered in the journal during term time,
or by a special order, made and ﬁled in vacation, for the
trial of a particular cause or the transaction of certain
business therein speciﬁed; a certiﬁed copy of which lat
ter order shall be served on the parties to the cause or
business speciﬁed ten days prior to such term. In the
former case, at the court so appointed, any business may
be transacted as if the same were a term appointed by
law, but in the latter case only such as may be speciﬁed
in the order.
§892. [866.] Each circuit court has the power to
appoint a crier and such number of bailiffs as may be
necessary for the term. The legal fees of such crier,t\:
bailiffs, or other officer of the court for attendance there-
on shall be ascertained by the court and directed to be
paid by an order thereof, and not otherwise. Upon the_
presentation of a certiﬁed copy of such order to the
proper oiﬁcer of the county wherein such court is holden,
it shall be the duty of such oﬂicer to draw his warrant
on the treasurer of such county for the amount therein
speciﬁed
§ 893. [867.'| The county court is created by the or
ganic law of the state, article VII. constitution, and its
organization is provided for, and its jurisdiction limited
and deﬁned, by such organic law, and the provisions of
this title. The court is held by the county judge, except
when county business is being transacted therein, and
then it is held by such judge and two commissioners
designated by law, or a majority of such persons.
§ 894. [868.] The county court has jurisdiction, but
not exclusive, of actions at law, and all proceedings
therein, and connected therewith, where the claim or
subject of the controversy does not exceed the value of
ﬁve hundred dollars, and exclusive jurisdiction of actions
for forcible entry and detainer, without reference to the
value of the property.
§ 895. [£569.] The county court has the exclusive ju
risdiction, in the ﬁrst instance, pertaining to a court of
probate; that is,——
1. To take proof of wills;
2. To grant and revoke letters testamentary of admin
istration and of guardianship;
3. To direct and control the conduct and settle the
accounts of executors, administrators, and guardians;
4. To direct the payment of debts and legacies, and
the distribution of the estates of intestates;
5. To order the sale and disposal of the real and per
sonal property of deceased persons;
6. To order the renting, sale, or other disposal of the
real and personal property of minors;
7. To take the care and custody of the person and
estate of a lunatic or habitual drunkard, and to appoint
and remove guardians therefor; to direct and control the
conduct of such guardians, and to settle their accounts;
8. To direct the admeasurement of dowcr.
§896. [870.] The county court has the authority and
powers pertaining to county commissioners, to transact
. -
county business; that 1s,—
_ _ _ ,
1. To provide for the erection and repairing of court
houses, jails, and other necessary public buildings for the
use of the county;
2. To provide oﬂices and furniture, books, stationery,
fuel, and light therefor, for the sheriff, county clerk, and
treasurer, or other county oﬂieers;
3. To establish, vacate, or alter county roads or high
ways within the county, or any other necessary act relat
ing thereto, in the manner provided by law;
4. To provide for the erection and repairing, within
the county, of public bridges upon any road or highway
established by public authority;
5. To license ferries and ﬁx the rates of ferriage;
6. To grant grocery and all other licenses authorized
by law, where the authority to do so is not expressly
given to some other tribunal;
7. To estimate and determine the amount of revenue
to be raised for county purposes, and to levy the rate
necessary therefor, together with the rate required by law
for any other purpose, and cause the same to be placed
in the hands of the proper oﬁicer for collection;
8. To provide for the maintenance and employment
of the county or transient paupers, in the manner pro
vided by law;
9. To have the general care and management of the
county property, funds, and business, where the law does
not otherwise expressly provide;
10. To compound for or release in whole or in part
any debt or damages arising out of contract due the
county, and for the sole use thereof, upon such terms as
may be just and equitable.
§ 897. [871._| All actions, suits, or proceedings by or
against a county are in the name of such county, but
the county is represented by the county court, and such
court has authority and power to control and direct the
proceeding therein, as if it were plaintiff or defendant,
as the case may be.
Bection followed in Weiss v. Jackson, 9 Or. 470, as to bringing the action
in the name of the county.
§898. Any proceedings commenced in the county
court, whether actions at law or proceedings in probate,
in which the county judge is a party or directly inter
ested, may be certiﬁed to the circuit court in and for the
county in which proceeding may be pending, where the
action at law shall be proceeded with, as upon appeal
from the county to the circuit court; if the matter be a
matter in probate, then all of the original papers, and
the proceedings had shall be certiﬁed to the circuit
court, and the judge of said circuit court shall proceed
in the manner now prescribed for the county judge had
the same remained in said court.
An act entitled “An act to provide for the transfer of proceedings from
the county court to the circuit court in certain cases:” Laws of 1885, p. 64.
§ 899. [872.] The county court is held at such times
as may be appointed by law, and at such other times as
the court in term, or the county judge in vacation, may
appoint, in like manner and with like effect as the cir
cuit court or judge thereof is authorized by section 891
[865].
Terms of court: See note to § 891 [S65], ante.
§ 900. [87 3.] When in the transaction of county
business only two of the persons authorized to hold the
court are present, and there shall be a disagreement be
tween them, upon any question or matter before them,
the same shall be continued until the next term, or until
the third person authorized to sit is present.
§ 901. [874.] The county court has the same power
and authority to appoint a crier and bailiﬂ's as the cir
cuit court, and shall ascertain and order the payment of
their legal fees therefor in like manner and with like
effect.
§902. [875.] The provisions of title IV. of chapter
VI. relating to appeals are intended to apply to judg
ments and decrees of the county court in all cases, but
not to its decisions given or made in the transaction of
county business. In the latter case, the decisions of the
court shall only be reviewed upon the writ of review pro
vided by this code.
§ 903. [876.] The business of the court at each term
shall be docketed and disposed of in the following
Qrde1';-
1. Cases at law, including motions or other proceed
ings connected therewith;
2. The business pertaining to a court of probate as
deﬁned and speciﬁed in section 895 [869];
3. County business.
The proceedings and records of the court pertaining
to or concerning the three classiﬁcations of business
speciﬁed in subdivisions of this section shall be entered
and kept in separate books.
§ 904. [877.] The court is always open for the tran
saction of the business mentioned in subdivision 2 of
the last section, whenever the particular proceeding or
_ 0 _ _
transaction is authorized to be had or done Without the
presence of or notice to another.
§905. [878.] The county judge of any county of
this state shall grant preliminary injunctions or orders
in any suit in the circuit court commenced in such
county, upon application to him by the plaintiff or his
attorney, duly made in the manner prescribed by title III.,
of chapter V., of the Code of Civil Procedure, which order
of injunction shall by him be made returnable to the cir
cuit court of such county where said suit is commenced,
to be then heard and determined, and such county judge
has such other jurisdiction, authority, and power as is
elsewhere expressly given to it or him by this code or
other statute.
§906. [879.] A justice’s court is a court held by a
justice of the peace, within the precinct for which he
may be chosen.
court, but the same is always open for the transaction
of business, according to the mode of proceeding pre
scribed for it.
§ 907. [880.] The mode of proceeding and the rules
of evidence are the same in a justice’s court as in a like
action or proceeding in a court of record, except where
otherwise specially provided.
§908. [881.] A justice’s court has jurisdiction, but
not exclusive, of the following actions:-—
1. For the recovery of money or damages only, when
the amount claimed does not exceed two hundred and
ﬁfty dollars;
2. For the recovery of speciﬁc personal property, when
the value of the property claimed and the damages for
the detention do not exceed two hundred and ﬁfty dol
lars;
3. For the recovery of any penalty or forfeiture,
whether given by statute or arising out of contract, not
exceeding two hundred and ﬁfty dollars;
4. Also, to give judgment without action, upon the
confession of the defendant for any of the causes speci
ﬁed in this section, except for a penalty or forfeiture
imposed by statute.
There are no particular terms of such
malicious prosecution, criminal conversation, seduction,
or upon a promise to marry..
§910. [883.] In an action to recover a penalty or
forfeiture given by statute, the cause of action or some
part thereof must have arisen within the county where
the action is commenced, or upon a lake, river, or other
water bordering upon such county and opposite thereto;
but otherwise than this the jurisdiction of a justice’s
court does not depend upon where the cause arose, pro
vided that the plaintiﬁ‘ or defendant shall reside in the
precinct where the action is commenced, or personal
service can be had on the defendant in any precinct in
the county; and if the defendant do not reside in the
state, the action may be commenced in any precinct in
the state.
§ 911. [884.] Every court of justice has power,—
1. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate
presence;
2. To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or
before a person or body empowered to conduct a judicial
investigation under its authority;
3. To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings
before it or its oﬁicers;
4. To compel obedience to its judgments, decrees,
orders, and process, and to the orders of a judge out of
court, in an action, suit, or proceeding pending therein;
5. To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct of
its ministerial oﬂicers, and of all other persons in any
manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it,
in every matter appertaining thereto;
6. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in
an action, suit, or proceeding therein, in the cases and
manner provided by this code;
7. To administer oaths in an action, suit, or proceed
ing pending therein, and in all other cases where it may
be necessary in the exercise of its powers or the per
formance of its duties.
§ 912. [885.] For the effectual exercise of the powers
speciﬁed in the last section, the court may punish for
contempt in the cases and the manner provided in this
code.
§ 913. [886.] A judicial oﬂicer is a person authorized
to act as a judge in a court of justice. Such oﬂicer shall
not act as such in a court of which he is a member in
any of the following cases:——
' 1. In an action, suit, or proceeding to which he is a
party, or in which he is directly interested;
2. When he was not present and sitting as a member
of the court at the hearing of a matter submitted for its
decision;
3. When he is related to either party by consanguinity
or aﬂinity within the third degree;
4. When he has been attorney in the action, suit, or
proceeding in question for either party.
But this section does not apply to an application to
change the place of trial, or the regulation of the order
of business in court. ln the cases speciﬁed in subdi
visions 3 and 4, the disqualiﬁcation may be waived by
the parties, and, except in the supreme court, shall be
deemed to be waived, unless an application for a change
of the place of trial be made as provided in this code.
§914. [887.] Any judicial officer may act as an at
torney in any action, suit, or proceeding to which he is a
party or in which he is directly interested. A judge of
the county court or justice of the peace, otherwise an
thorized by law, may act as an attorney in any court
other than the one of which he is judge, except in an
action, suit, or proceeding removed therefrom to another
court for review; but no judicial oﬁicer shall act as
attorney in any court, or otherwise other than as in
this section allowed.
§ 915. [888.] A judge may exercise, out of court, all
-the owers ex ressl f '
P P y con erred upon a Judge as contra/'
distinguished from a court, and not otherwise.
§ 916. [890.] Every judicial officer has power,-—
,1. To preserve and enforce order in his immediate
presence, and in the proceedings before him, when he
is engaged in the performance of a duty imposed upon
him by this code or other statute;
2. To compel obedience to his lawful orders, as pro
vided in this code;
3. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in a.
proceeding pending before him in the cases and manner
provided in this code;
4. To administer oaths to persons, in a proceeding
pending before him, and in all other cases where it may
be necessary, in the exercise of his powers and the per
formance of his duties.
§ 917. [891.] For the effectual exercise of the powers
speciﬁed in the last section, a judicial oﬂicer may punish
for contempt, in the cases and manner provided in this
code.
§ 918. [892.] The judges of the supreme court and
circuit courts have power in any part of the state to take
and <=e1'tif>’»—
1. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of
real property, or any other written instrument authorized
or required to be proved or acknowledged;
2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment
in any court;
3. An afﬁdavit or deposition to be used in any court
of justice or other tribunal of this state;
4. To exercise any other power and perform any other
duty conferred or imposed upon them by this code or
other statutes.
. § 919. [893.] Every other judicial ofﬁcer may, within
the county, city, district, or precinct in which he is
chosen,
1. Exercise the powers mentioned in subdivisions 1,
2 and 3 of the last section;
2. Exercise any other power and perform any other
duty conferred or imposed upon him by this code or
other statutes.
§920. [894.] Each of the following courts, and no
other, has a seal:—
1. The supreme court;
2. Each circuit court;
3. Each county court.
§ 921. [895.] The seals now used by these courts shall
continue to be so used until and including the ﬁrst day
of May, 1863. After that day, the seals devised as pro
vided in the next section shall be the seals thereof.
§ 922. [896.] At least thirty days before the ﬁrst day
of May, 1863, the secretary of state shall procure and
transmit, at the expense- of the state, to the clerks of the
several courts mentioned in section 920 [894], seals, with
the arms of the state engraved in the center thereof, and
with the following inscription surrounding the same:—
1. For the supreme court, “Supreme Court, State of
Oregon ”;
2. For the circuit court, “Circuit Court, County,
State of Oregon,” inserting the name of the particular
county;
3. For the county court, “County Court, County,
State of Oregon,” inserting the name of the particular
county. '
§923. [897.] The clerk of each court mentioned in
section 920 [894] shall keep the seal thereof, and aﬁix it
to any process, transcript, certiﬁcate, or other paper re
quired by this code or other statute.
§924. [898.] The sittings of every court of justice
are public, except as provided in this section. Upon the
agreement of the parties to a civil action, suit, or pro
ceeding, ﬁled with the clerk or entered upon the journal,
the court may direct the trial of an issue of law or fact,
or any other proceeding therein, to be private; and upon
such order being made, all persons shall be excluded,
except the ofﬁcers of the court, the parties, their witnesses
and counsel.
See Constitution, art. 1, § 11.
§ 925. Each of the several circuit judges of this state
shall have authority to hold circuit courts in any of the
judicial districts of the state, where, for any reason, the
circuit judge elected for such district cannot attend, or
is disqualiﬁed to try any cause pending therein at the
time appointed for holding said court or trying said
cause.
§ 926. In the absence of any circuit judge from his
judicial district, or from any county in such district,
whereby inconvenience or delay would be occasioned in
obtaining orders from him in any suit or action pending
therein, or in case of his inability to act, any other cir
cuit judge, whether within or without such district, may
grant all necessary orders, to have effect in any cause
pending therein, to all intents and purposes as if made
by the circuit judge ‘of the said district; provided, that
the question shall not have been presented to or passed
upon by any other circuit judge in this state.
See note to last preceding section.
§ 927. All such orders may be enforced in this [the]
district where the same are pending by any of the cir
cuit judges of this state.
See note to § 925.
§ 928. [899.] The courts of justice may be held, and
judicial business transacted, on any day, except as pro
. . . .
vlded 1n this section. No court can be opened, nor can
any judicial business be transacted, on a Sunday, on
the ﬁrst day of January, on the ﬁrst Saturday in June,
on the fourth day of July, on Christmas day, on the
thirtieth day of May, on a day on which a general elec
tion is held, or on a day appointed by the executive
authority of the United States or of this state as a. day
of fasting or thanksgiving, except for the following pur
poses:—
1. To give instructions to a jury then deliberating on
their verdict;
2. To receive the verdict of a jury;
3. For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate in
criminal actions, or in proceedings of a criminal nature.
Laws of 1887, p. 86.
§929. [900.] If any of the days mentioned in the
last section happen to be a day appointed for holding
acourt, or to which it is adjourned, it is deemed ap
pointed for or adjourned to the next judicial day.
§ 930. [901.] Every court of justice shall sit at the
place designated by law for that purpose, except as provided
in the next two sections.
§ 931. [902.] Upon the agreement of the parties to
a civil action, suit, or proceeding, ﬁled with the clerk or
entered upon the journal, the court may direct that the
trial of an issue of law or of fact, or any other proceeding
therein, be had elsewhere within the county than at
the court-house.
§ 932. [903.] A judge authorized to hold or preside
at a court may, by an order ﬁled with the clerk thereof,
and published as he may prescribe, direct that the
court he held or continued at any other place in the
county than that appointed, when war, pestilence, or
other public calamity, or the danger thereof, may render
it necessary; and may, in the same manner, revoke the
order, and in his discretion appoint another place in
the same county for holding the court.
§ 933. [904.] If the proper authority neglects to pro-
vide any court with rooms, furniture, fuel, lights, and
stationery, suitable and sufficient for the transaction of
its business, and for the jury attending upon it, if there
be one, the court may order the sheriff to do so, at the
place within the county designated by law for holding
such court; and the expense incurred by the sheriff in
carrying such order into effect, when ascertained and
ordered to be paid by the court, is a charge upon the
county.
§934. [905.] When a court is held at a place ap-
pointed as provided by section 932 [903], every person
held or required to appear at the court shall appear at
the place so appointed.
§ 935. [906.] If no judge attend on the day appointed
for holding a court, before four o’clock in the afternoon,
the court shall stand adjourned until the next day at nine
o’clock; and if no judge attend on that day, before four
o’clock in the afternoon, it shall then stand adjourned
for the term.
§ 936. [907.] No proceeding in a court of justice, in
action, suit, or proceeding pending therein, is af
fected by a vacancy in the ofﬁce of any or all of the
judges, or by the failure of a term thereof.
§ 937. [908.] An application or other proceeding ad
dressed to a court shall be addressed to it by its style as
given in this code; an application or other proceeding
addressed to a judicial ofﬁcer shall be addressed to him
by his name, without any other title than his style of
oiﬁce.
§938. [909.] Every writing in any action, suit, or
proceeding whatever, in a. court of justice of this state, or
before a judicial oﬂicer, shall be in the English language;
but such abbreviations as are now commonly used in
that language may be used, and numbers may be ex
pressed by ﬁgures or numerals, in the customary manner.
§ 939. [910.] A court or judicial oﬂicer has power to
adjourn any proceeding before it or him, from time to
time, as may be necessary, unless otherwise expressly
provided by this code.
§940. [911.] When jurisdiction is, by the organic
, .
law of this state, or by this code or any other statute,
. . .
conferred on a court or judicial oﬁicer, all the means to
carry it into effect are also given; and in the exercise of
the jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be not spe
ciﬁcally pointed out by this code, any suitable process or
mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear
most conformable to the spirit of this code.

§941. [912.] A jury is a body of men temporarily
selected from the qualiﬁed inhabitants of a particular
district, and invested with power,-—
1. To present or indict a person for a public offense;
or,
2. To try a question of fact.
§ 942. [913.] A jury is of three kinds:—
1. A grand jury;
2. A trial jury;
3. A jury of inquest.
§943. [914.] A grand jury is a body of men, seven
in number, drawn by lot from the jurors in attendance
upon the court at the particular term, and sworn to in
quire of public offenses committed or triable within
the county.
See the chapter on grand juries in the Miscellaneous Laws, post.
§ 944. [915.] A trial jury is a body of men, twelve in
number in the circuit court, and six in number in the
county court and courts of justice of the peace, drawn.
by lot from the jurors in attendance upon the court at a
particular term, and sworn to try and determine a ques
tion of fact; but in a justice’s court the jury is drawn
according to the mode specially provided for such court.
Trial by jury: See title 3 of chap- title 2, chapter 2, ante, pp. 286
ter 2, ante, pp. 293 et seq. et seq.
Formation of tria. jury: See
§ 945. [916.] A jury of inquest is a body of men, six
in number, summoned from the qualiﬁed inhabitants of
a particular district, before the sheriif, coroner, or other
ministerial oﬁiccr, to inquire of particular facts.
Inquest: See the chapter on this subject in the Miscellaneous Laws, post.
§946. [917.] All other juries than those herein de
scribed are abolished. A grand jury may present or
indict a person with a concurrence of ﬁve of their num
ber, and not otherwise. The verdict of a trial jury shall
be unanimous, but the verdict of a jury of inquest is
suﬂicient if two thirds of the jurors concur therein.
§947. [918.] A person is not competent to act as a
juror unless he be,——
1. A citizen of the United States;
2. A male inhabitant of the county in which he is
returned, and who has been an inhabitant thereof for
the year next preceding the time he is drawn or called;
3. Over twenty-one years of age;
4. In the possession of his natural faculties and of
sound mind.
Nor is any person competent to act as a juror who has
been convicted of any felony, or a misdemeanor involv
ing moral turpitude. No person shall be summoned as
a. juror in any circuit court more than once in one year,
and it shall be suﬁicient cause of challenge to any juror
called to be sworn in any cause that he has been sum
moned and attended said court as a juror at any term of
said court held within one year prior to the time of such
challenge, or that he has been summoned from the by
standers or body of the county, and has served as a juror
in any cause upon such summons within one year prior
to the time of such challenge.
Laws of 1882, p. 61. \
§ 948. [919.] A person'is exempt from liability to act
as a. juror if he be,-—
1. A judicial oﬂicer, as deﬁned in this code;
2. Any other civil oﬂicer of this state, or the United
States, whose duties are at the time inconsistent with his
attendance as a juror;
3. An attorney;
4. A minister of the gospel or a priest of any denomi
nation;
5. A teacher in a college, academy, or school;
6. A practising physician;
7. An acting non-commissioned oﬁicer, musician, or
private of a military organization, duly enrolled in the
service of the United States or of this state;
8. An acting member of a company of ﬁremen duly
organized, and who has been such member for a period
of six months next preceding the time when the exemp
tion is claimed;
9. A person who has served, within this state, as an
acting member of a company of ﬁremen for the period
of seven years;
10. Acting ferrymen or millers.
§ 949. No exempt ﬁreman, nor any person who has
been an active member of any volunteer ﬁre company of
this state for one year immediately preceding the time
the exemption is claimed, and who then is such member,
shall be required to perform any jury duty, or to pay any
poll tax, or road tax, excepting a property road tax.
An act entitled "An act exempting ﬁremen from certain duties and taxes,"
approved February 20, 1885. This section is placed § 1 of the act, where it
logically belongs.
§ 950. Every person who for seven consecutive years
has been an active member of any organized volunteer
ﬁre company in this state, and any person who has re
ceived an exempt certiﬁcate from any ﬁre department in
this state, shall be deemed an exempt ﬁreman, within
the|meaning of this act.
See note to last preceding section.
§ 951. [920.] A person may be excused from acting
as a juror when, for any reason, his interests or those of
the public will be materially injured by his attendance;
or when his own health, or the death or sickness of a.
member of his family, requires his absence; but no per
son shall be excused on account of the causes in this
section mentioned unless it appear that after he was
summoned he could not, by reasonable precaution, have
provided against them.

§ 952. [921.] The county court of each county shall,
at its ﬁrst term of each year, or in case of omission or
neglect to do so, then at any following term, make from
the last preceding assessment roll of the county a list,
denominated the jury list, containing the names of per
sons to serve as grand and trial jurors until the follow
ing year, or new lists be made.
§ 953. [922] In preparing the jury list, the names of
those persons only must be selected who are known or
believed to be possessed of the qualiﬁcations prescribed
in section 947 [918], and not entitled to exemption as
provided in section 948 [919].
§ 954. [923.] The jury list shall contain the names
of two hundred persons, if there are that number of
qualiﬁed jurors upon the assessment roll. They shall be
selected from the different portions of the county, in
proportion to the number qualiﬁed upon the assessment
roll, as much as practicable.
§ 955. [924.] The jury list shall contain the christian
and surname, and the place of residence and occupation,
of each person named therein, and shall be certiﬁed by
the clerk of the county court, and placed on ﬁle in the
office of the county clerk, within ten days from the time
it is prepared.
§ 956. [925.] The county clerk shall keep in his oﬂice
a suilicient box, carefully secured, which is denominated
the jury-box. On receiving the jury list, he shall destroy
all ballots remaining in the box, and prepare and de-
posit in such box separate ballots, containing the name,
place of residence, and occupation of each person em
braced in the list, and folded as nearly alike as practi
cable, and so that the name cannot be seen.
§ 957. [926.] The jurors for every term of the circuit
and county court in the county shall be drawn from the
'
names deposited in the jury-box; but no jury shall be
drawn for such county court, at any term thereof, unless
upon the order of the county judge, previously ﬁled with
the county clerk; provided, that a jury may be summoned
to attend the county court by order of the judge thereof,
for the trial of an issue in such court, as in the court of
a justice of the peace.
See note to § 968.
§ 958. [927.] For the circuit court, thirty-one names
shall be drawn, from which number the grand and trial
juries for the term are selected, as elsewhere provided
in this code. For the county court, twelve names shall
be drawn, from which number the trial juries for the
term are selected in like manner.
See note to § 968.
§959. [928.] The drawing shall take place at the
oﬁice of the county clerk, not less than ten nor more
than twenty days before the holding of the term of the
court at which the jurors are to serve; but if the term he
one appointed by the court or judge thereof, the drawing
may be at any shorter time before such term, as such court
or judge may prescribe in the order appointing such term.
§960. [929.] Whenever jurors are to be drawn, the
county clerk shall take to his assistance the sheriff or a
justice of the peace for the county, and proceed with the
drawing as follows:—-—
1. The clerk shall shake the box containing the bal
lots, so as to mingle them as much as possible;
2. He shall then publicly draw out of the box as many
ballots as there are jurors required;
3. A minute of the drawing shall be kept, in which the
name contained on each ballot drawn shall be entered
before another ballot can be drawn;
4. If, when the whole number of ballots required is
drawn, it appear that a person whose name is drawn is
dead, or resides out of the county, that fact shall be en
tered in the minute of the drawing, and the ballot con
taining the name destroyed;
5. Another ballot must then be drawn in the place of
that destroyed, and the name contained thereon shall in
the same manner be entered in the minute of the draw-
ing;
6. The same proceeding shall be had as often as neces
sary until the requisite number of ballots is drawn, ex
clusive of those appearing to be dead or non-resident;
7. The minute of the drawing shall -then be signed by
the clerk and the attending oﬂicer, and immediately ﬁled
in the oﬁice of the former.
See note to § 968.
§961. [930.] A panel of the names of the persons
drawn as jurors, with their places of residence and occupation,
and stating for what court and the particular
term thereof they were drawn, shall then be made and
certiﬁed by the clerk, and delivered without delay to the
sheriff of the county.
See note to § 968.
§ 962. [931.] At least ﬁve days before the ﬁrst day of
the term the sheriff shall summon the persons named in
[the] panel delivered to him to attend the court, by giving
written notice to each of them personally, or by leaving
the same at his place of residence with some person of
suitable age and discretion.
See note to § 968.
§ 963. [932.] The sheriff shall return such panel to
the court at its opening, specifying the persons sum-
moned, and the manner in which each was notiﬁed, and
the date thereof.
See note to § 968.
§ 964. [933.] The court to which the panel of jurors
is returned by the sheriff may impose a ﬁne not exceed-
ing twenty dollars for each day a juror, without reasonable
cause, neglects to attend. If, however, the notice to
attend were not personally served, the ﬁne shall not be
imposed until, upon an order to show cause, an oppor
tunity is afforded him to be heard. The oath of the
juror shall be received in his favor in any proceeding
under this section.
§965. [934.] The county clerk shall preserve the
ballots drawn as provided in section 960 [929] 1'1’nti
after the adjournment of the court, and shall then,—
1. Destroy the ballots containing the names of those
who were discharged for want of a qualiﬁcation men_
tioned in section 947 [918], or by reason of an exemption
mentioned in section 948 [919];
2. Deposit in the jury-box the ballots containing the
names of those who did not appear, or were discharged
for any other reason than those mentioned in the last
subdivision; ,
3. Deposit in a box to be denominated the box of
drawn jurors, the ballots containing the names of those
who attended and served.
§ 966. [935.] The clerk of the court shall, within one
week after its adjournment, make and ﬁle in the oﬁice
of the county clerk a certiﬁed list of all the jurors re
turned to the court, specifying, ——
1. Those who were discharged for want of qualiﬁcation,
or by reason of exemption;
2. Those who did not appear, or were discharged for
any other reason;
3. Those who attended and served, and the per diem
and mileage of each.
§ 967. [936.] Until the ballots in the jury-box have all
been drawn, including those returned, as provided in
subdivision 2 of section 965 [934], the ballots deposited
in the box of drawn jurors are not to be drawn from,
but whenever the ballots in the jury-box have all been
drawn, and a new jury list has not been furnished, the
ballots of drawn jurors shall all be returned to the jury
box, and the jury drawn therefrom as before, until a new
list is furnished.
§ 968. [937.] Whenever, for any reason, the number
of jurors, either in whole or in part, required by this
code, do not attend a term of court, the court has power
to direct the sheriff to summon forthwith, from the body
of the county, persons having the qualiﬁcations of jurors,
to serve as such during the term.

§ 969. [938.] A referee is a person appointed by the
court or a judicial oﬁicer, with power,
1. To try an issue of law or of fact in a civil action,
suit, or proceeding, and report thereon;
2. To ascertain any other fact in a civil action, suit, or
proceeding, when necessary for the information of the
court, and report the fact, or to take and report the evi
denee in a suit in equity;
3. To execute an order, judgment, or decree, or to
exercise any other power or perform any other duty ex
pressly authorized by this code.
§970. [939.] The appointment of a referee is de-
nominated a reference.
The manner and occasion of
making an order of reference are elsewhere provided for
in this code.
§971. [940.] The governor may appoint as many
commissioners in each of the other states, or in a terri
tory of the United States, or in the District of Columbia,
as he may deem expedient, who shall hold their oiﬁces
for four years, and may, within the state, territory, or
district for which they are appointed, and not otherwise,
take and certify,——
1. The proof or acknowledgment of a conveyance of
_ . _ _
real property within this state, or of any other written
instrument to be used or operate therein;
2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of any judg
ment or decree of a court of this state;
3. An affidavit or deposition to be used in any court of
justice or before any judicial oﬂicer of this state; and,
4. To exercise any other power, and perform any other
duty, conferred or imposed upon them by this code or
other statutes.
§ 972. [941.] A commissioner appointed under the
last section shall, before he can exercise the powers therein
conferred, provide himself with a seal of oﬂice, with the
arms of this state engraved in the center thereof, and with
the following inscription surrounding the same: “Com
missioner for Oregon,——”; the blank following the word
“Oregon” to be ﬁlled with the name of the state, territory,
or district for which such commissioner is appointed, and
take and subscribe an oath before a judicial oﬂicer in the
county, city, or town where he resides, faithfully to per
form the duties of the oﬁice of a commissioner to take
aﬂidavits, depositions, and the proof and acknowledg
ment of deeds, out of this state, according to the laws
thereof, and ﬁle such oath and an impression of such seal
in the ofﬁce of the secretary of this state.
§ 973. [942.] The district attorney in each district is
the public prosecutor therein.
§ 974. [943.] He shall attend the terms of all courts
having jurisdiction of public offenses within his district,
and conduct, on behalf of the state, all prosecutions for
such offenses therein.
§ 975. [944.] He shall institute proceedings before
magistrates for the arrest of persons charged with or
reasonably suspected of public offenses, when he has in
formation that any such offense has been committed,
and attend upon and advise the grand jury when re
quired. I
§ 976. [945.] He shall prosecute for all penalties and
forfeitures to the state, which may be incurred in any
county in his district, and for which no other mode of
prosecution and collection is expressly provided by stat
ute, and in like case, prosecute or defend, as the case
may be, all actions, suits, or proceedings in any county
in his district to which the state or such county may be
a party.
§977. [946.] In any suit for the dissolution of the
marriage contract, or to have the same declared void,
the state is to be deemed a party defendant, and the
party plaintiff in such suit shall cause the summons to
be served upon the district attorney of the district with
in which the suit is commenced at least ten days before
the term at which the defendant is required to appear
and answer. It shall be the duty of such district attorney,
so far as may be necessary to prevent fraud or collusion
in such suit, to control the proceedings on the part of
the defense, and in case the defendant does not appear
therein, or defend against the same in good faith, to
make a defense therein on behalf of the state.
§978. [947.] \Vhen he receives money or property
in his official capacity, he shall deliver a receipt therefor
to the person from whom he receives it, and ﬁle a du
plicate thereof with the treasurer of the county for which
the same is received.
§ 979. [948.] He shall, on or before the ﬁrst Monday
in January and July of each year, file in the office of the
county treasurer of the proper county an account in
writing, veriﬁed by his own oath, of all money’ received
by him in his official capacity during the preceding half
year, and shall at the same time pay it over to such
county treasurer.
- § 980. [949.] If he refuse or neglect to account for
and pay over money so received, as required by the last
section, the county treasurer shall commence an action
against him therefor in the name of the county.
§ 981. [950.] He shall not receive any fee or reward
from any private person for his services in any criminal
. . .
action, nor durmg the pendency of such prosecution can
. . . . ,
he act as attorney for either party in any civil act1on,1n
suit, or proceeding involving substantially the same con
troversy.
§ 982. [951.] The district attorney must keep a regis-
ter of his oﬁicial business, in which he shall make a note
of every action, suit, or proceeding commenced or de-
. . . . .
fended by him in his oﬁicial capacity, and the proceed-
ings therein. The register shall, at the expiration of his
term of oﬂice, be delivered by him to his successor in
oﬂice.
§ 983. 952. He shall, on or before the ﬁrst Monda
in September of each year, ﬁle in the oﬁice of the secre~
'tary of state a written report of the amount and kind of
ofﬁcial business by him transacted during the preceding
year; specifying therein the number of persons indicted
for public offenses, the number tried therefor, the result
thereof, and the punishment awarded, together with such
particular statements and suggestions as he may deem
useful and interesting.
§984. [953]. If the district attorney fail to attend
any court at which he is required to be, such court shall
appoint another person to perform the duties of such
attorney during his absence from the court, who shall
receive the legal fees for the business which he may
transact at such term, and a reasonable compensation
for his attendance, to be paid from the county treasury
upon the order of the court.
0
y
§ 985. [954.] The oﬂice of the clerk of the supreme
court is kept at the seat of government, in such building
or room thereat as such court may by order designate.
The rent thereof, and the cost of such fuel, lights, books,
and stationery as may be necessary therefor, shall be
ascertained and ordered to be paid by such court, from
the treasury of the state, in the same manner as the
compensation of the crier and bailiffs of such court is
ascertained and paid.
§ 986. [955.] The oiﬁce of the county clerk is kept
in such building or room at the place appointed by law
for holding the courts therein as the county court may
by order designate.
§ 987. [956.] Each clerk shall keep his ofﬁce open
for the transaction of business as follows:—
1. A county clerk, on every judicial day, from eight
to twelve in the forenoon, and from one to ﬁve in the
afternoon;
2. The clerk of the supreme court, as such court may
by order direct.
§ 988. [957.] Each county clerk and the clerk of the
supreme court may have a deputy, to be appointed by
such clerk in writing, and to continue during his pleas
ure. Such deputy has the power to perform any act or
duty relating to the clerk’s oﬂice that his principal has,
and his principal is responsible for his conduct.
§ 989. [958.] Each county clerk is prohibited during
his continuance in oﬁice from acting, or having a part-
ner who acts, as an attorney of the court of which he is
0l9l‘l(.

§ 990. [959.] The clerk of the supreme court and each
county clerk has power to take and certify the proof and
acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property or any
other written instrument, authorized or required to be
proved or acknowledged, and it is the duty of the clerk
of the supreme court, and of each county clerk for each of
the courts for which he is clerk,—
1. To keep the seal of the court, and aﬂix it in all cases
where he is required by law;
2. To record the proceedings of the court;
3. To keep the records, ﬁles, and other books and
papers appertaining to the court;
4. To ﬁle all papers delivered to him for that purpose
in any action, suit, or proceeding in the court;
5. To attend the terms of the court of which he is
clerk, to administer oaths, and receive the verdict of a
jury in any action, suit, or proceeding therein, in the
presence and under the direction of the court;
6. To keep the journal of the proceedings of the court
at its terms, and under the direction of the court to enter
its orders, judgments, and decrees;
7. To authenticate, by certiﬁcate or transcript, as may
be required, the records, ﬁles, or proceedings of the court,
or any other paper appertaining thereto, and ﬁled with
him;
8. To exercise the powers and perform the duties con
ferred and imposed upon him elsewhere by this code or
other statute;
9. In the performance of his duties, to conform to the
direction of the court.
§991. [960.] The sheriﬂ' of each county shall keep
an oﬁice in such room or building, at the place appointed
by law for holding courts therein, as the county court
may by order designate. The sheriﬁ"s oﬁice shall be
kept open on the days and during the hours required for
the county clerk’s office to be so.
omce hours: See § 987 [956].
§ 992. [96l.] Service of a paper upon the sheriﬂ' may
. . . . .
be make by dehvermg it to a person belongmg to and in
the oﬁice during oﬂice hours, or if no such person be
. . . .
there, by leavmg 1t 1n the oﬁice, or if the oﬂice be not
open, by delivering it to the county clerk or his deputy,
at the county clerk’s oﬂice. The service in the cases pro
vided in this section is equivalent to a personal service
on the sheriif.
§ 993. [962] A sheriff may have a deputy, to be ap
pointed by him in writing, and to continue during his
_ .
pleasure. A certiﬁed copy of the appointment of a
deputy sheriff shall be ﬁled with the county clerk, and
the person appointed shall, before entering upon the
duties of the office, take and ﬁle with the county clerk
the oath of oﬂicc.

§994. [963.] A sheriff may also, by special written
_
appointment, authonze any other person to do any par
ticular act. A certiﬁed copy of such appointment shall
be ﬁled with the county clerk, unless indorsed upon the
process, order, or other paper so authorized to be served
or executed. A deputy has the power to perform any
act or duty that his principal has, and a person specially
appointed to do a particular act has the same power in
relation to the particular act authorized, and the princi
pal is responsible for the conduct of such deputy or per
son specially appointed.
§995. [964.] When any process, order, or paper is
delivered to an oﬂicer, to be executed or served, he shall
deliver to the person delivering it, if required, on pay
ment of his fee, a written memorandum, specifying the
names of the parties in the process, order, or paper, the
general nature thereof, and the day on which it was re
ceived. He shall also, when this code or other statute
requires it, or upon the request of the party served, with
out fee, deliver to him a copy thereof.
§ 996. [965.] An oﬁicer to whom any process, order,
or paper is delivered shall execute or serve it according
to its command or direction, or as required by this code
or other statute, and must make a written return of the
execution or service thereof.

§ 997. [966.] When an oﬁicer ﬁnds, or has reason to
apprehend, that resistance will be made to the execution
or service of any process, order, or paper delivered to
him for execution or service, and authorized by this code
or other statute, he may command as many male inhab
itants of his county as he may think proper and neces
sary, and any military company or companies in the
county, armed and equipped, to assist him in overcoming
the resistance, and if necessary, in seizing, arresting,
and conﬁning the resistors and their aiders and abettors,
to be punished according to law.
§ 998. [967.] Every person commanded by an oﬁcer
to assist him, as provided in the last section, who, with
out lawful cause, refuses or neglects to obey the com
mand, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
5 999. [968.] The sheriff is the chief executive oiﬁcer
and conservator of the peace of the county. In the execu
tion of his oﬂice, it is his duty,—
1. To arrest and commit to prison all persons who
break the peace, or attempt to break it, and all persons
guilty of public offenses;
2. To defend his county against those who, by riot or
otherwise, endanger the public peace or safety;
3. To execute the process and orders of the courts of
justice or of judicial oﬁicers, when delivered to him for
that purpose, according to the provisions of this code or
other statute;
4. To execute all warrants delivered to him for that
purpose, by other public ofﬁcers, according to the pro
visions of particular statutes.
5. To attend the terms of the supreme, circuit, or
county court held within his county, and to obey its law
ful orders or directions.
§ 1000. [969.] The county is not responsible for the
acts of the sheriﬁ‘.

§ 1001. [970.] A prisoner committed to the county
jail for a contempt, or for trial, or upon a conviction for
a public offense, or in default of security to appear as a
witness in a criminal action, shall be actually conﬁned
in the jail until he is legally discharged; and if he be
permitted to go at large out of the jail, except by virtue
of a legal order or process, it is an escape, and the sheriff
or jailer permitting it is guilty of a misdemeanor; and
when the prisoner escaping is also held until he pay a
sum of money to a private party, or a ﬁne or penalty to
the state, such party or the state may recover, in a civil
action against the sheriff, the damages sustained by rea
son of the escape.
§ 1002. [971.] A sheriff who suifers the escape of a
prisoner, arrested or in jail, without the consent or con-
nivance of the party on whose behalf the arrest or im-
prisonment was made, is liable to an action by such
party therefor, as follows:—
1. When the arrest is upon an order of arrest in a
civil action, suit, or proceeding; when the presence of
the defendant at the return of the summons is necessary
to enable the plaintiff to proceed therein, and the defend
ant does not appear at the time and place speciﬁed in the
summons;
2. When the arrest or imprisonment is upon an order
of arrest in any other civil action, suit, or proceeding, or
upon a surrender in exoneration of the sheriff or of bail,
and the defendant is not found upon an execution against
his person issued to the proper county on a judgment or
decree in such action, suit, or proceeding;
3. When the arrest is on an execution or commitment
to enforce the payment of money, and the party arrested
is not recaptured or surrendered into custody at the ex
piration of the time limited for the service thereof, or
legally discharged therefrom;
4. When a person is imprisoned on an execution or
commitment to enforce the payment of money, and he
escapes after the time limited for the service, and is not
recaptured or surrendered before an action is commenced
for the escape.
§ 1003. [972.] The measure of damages in an action
of escape, as provided in the last section, is as follows:—
1. For the escape mentioned in subdivision 1, the
actual damages sustained;
2. In any other case, the amount expressed in the exe
cution or commitment.
§ 1004. [973.] The county court of each county shall
designate a reasonable space of ground, adjacent to the
jail of the county, to be denominated the jail liberties,
as follows:———
1. The liberties shall be laid out as nearly as may be
in a square; except that a stream of water or highway may
be adopted as an exterior line, though not in a straight
line, or at right angles with the other exterior lines;
2. They shall not exceed ﬁve hundred acres in ex
tent, and shall include the court-house and the oﬂice of
the county clerk;
3. A description of their boundaries and extent shall
be contained in the order establishing them;
4. The boundaries and limits shall be designated by
visible and permanent objects.
§ 1005. [974.] Subject to the restrictions and limi
tations prescribed in the last section, the county court
may alter the jail liberties not oftener than once in two
years. A certiﬁed copy of the order establishing or
altering the jail liberties shall be immediately delivered
by the county clerk to the sheriﬁ', who shall post the
same in some conspicuous place in the county jail.
§ 1006. [975.] A person in the custody of the sheriff,
in a civil action, suit, or proceeding, by virtue of an
order of arrest, or an execution, or upon a surrender in
exoneration of bail, or upon a commitment for not pay
ing money, may go at large within the jail liberties,
with the consent of the sheriff. He must, however, be
admitted to the jail liberties, upon giving security there
for, as provided in the next section.
§ 1007. [976.] The security for the jail liberties is
taken by the sheriff, and shall be by written under
. , ,
taking, executed by one or more suﬂ5c1ent sureties, to
the eﬂ'ect that the prisoner will not go beyond the jail
liberties until legally discharged, or that the sureties
will pay to the person at whose suit the prisoner is in
custody a sum mentioned in the undertaking, and which
must be as follows:—
1. If upon an order of arrest, or a surrender in exon
eration of bail in a civil action, suit, or proceeding,
before judgment or decree, the sum recovered therein,
not exceeding that mentioned in the writ of arrest, with
interest and the sheriff's fees;
2. If upon an execution in a civil action, suit, or pro
ceeding, or a commitment for not paying money, a sum
not exceeding that mentioned therein, with interest and
the shcriﬂ"s fees.
§1008. [977.] The sheriif is to determine the suﬁiciency
of the sureties in the undertaking, and if at any
time after the giving of the undertaking he discover that
the sureties are insuﬁicient, he may recommit the prisoner
to jail until other sufficient surety be given.
§1009. [978.] The sureties, at any time before the
judgment against them upon their undertaking, may
surrender the prisoner, or he may surrender himself to
the sheriff or jailer, in exoneration of his sureties from
a future liability, but not from a liability incurred before
the surrender. The sheriff or the jailer shall thereupon, on
the written request of the sureties, receive the prisoner
into custody, and shall indorse the surrender upon the
undertaking, and if required, give the sureties a certiﬁ
cate thereof.
§ 1010. [979.] If a prisoner, allowed by the sheriff to
go at large within the jail liberties, go beyond them, the
. . .
sheriff in whose custody he is may pursue and retake
him, as if he had escaped from jail.
§ 1011. [980.] An action for the escape of a prisoner
conﬁned in a jail, or admitted to the jail liberties, for
either of the causes mentioned in section 1006 [975],
may be maintained by the party entitled thereto, against
either the sheriff or the sureties for the jail liberties; but
the election to sue the sureties discharges the sheriff.
§1012. [98].] If the action mentioned in the last
section be commenced against the sheriff, and he give
written notice thereof to the prisoner or his sureties, a
judgment in such action against the sheriff is conclusive
evidence of his right to recover against the prisoner or
his sureties, as to any matter which was or might have
been controvcrted in the action against the sheriff; and
such judgment is evidence of the damages sustained by
the sheriff, whether the same has been collected of him
or not; and he is also entitled to recover his costs and
reasonable expenses in defending the action against him,
as part of his damages.
§ 1013. [982.] A sheriff, jailer, or other ofﬁcer, who
. . . .
demands or receives a reward or gratuity to aid or assist,
. . . .
or who connives at, the escape of a prisoner in his cus
tody, for any of the causes mentioned in section 1006
[975], is guilty of a misdemeanor.

§ 1014. [983.] When a new sheriff is elected or ap
pointed, and has qualiﬁed, the county clerk shall give
him a certiﬁcate of that fact, under his seal of office.
. . .
Whenever thereafter the new sheriff is authorized by
statute to enter upon the duties of the oﬂicc, he shall
serve such certiﬁcate upon the former sheriff, from which
time his powers cease, except when otherwise specially
provided.
§ 1015. [984.] Within one day after the service of the
certiﬁcate upon the former sheriﬁ‘, he shall deliver to his
1. The jail of the county, with its appurtenances and
the property of the county therein;
2. The prisoners then conﬁned in the county jail;
3. The process or other papers in his custody, author
izing or relating to the conﬁnement of the prisoners, or
if they have been returned, a written memorandum of
them and the time and place of their return;
4. All process for the arrest of a party, and all papers
relating to the summoning of jurors which have not been
fully executed;
5. All executions and ﬁnal process,'except those which
he has executed, or has begun to execute, by the collec
tion of money or a levy on property;
6. All process or other papers for the enforcement of
a provisional remedy not fully executed.
§ 1016. [985.] He shall also at the same time deliver
to the new sheriff a written assignment of the property,
process, papers, and prisoners delivered. The new sher-
iﬂ' shall thereupon acknowledge in writing, upon the assignment,
the receipt of the property, process, papers,
and prisoners therein speciﬁed, and furnish the former
sheriff a certiﬁed copy thereof, and ﬁle the original in the
county clerk's ofﬁce.
§ 1017. [986.] The former sheriff shall return all pro-
cess, whether before or after judgment or decree, which
he has fully executed, and shall complete the execution
of all ﬁnal process which he has begun to execute; previded,
that in all cases where real property has been or
may be sold under execution by any sheriff, and he shall
fail or neglect, during his term of office, by virtue of the
expiration thereof, or otherwise, to make or execute a
proper sheriff ’s deed conveying said property to the pur
chaser; or if, through mistake in its execution, or other
wise, any sh'eriﬁ"s deed shall be inoperative, the court by
which said sheriﬁ"s sale has been, or shall be, conﬁrmed
may, upon motion, order that the sheriff in office at the
time of making such order shall execute such convey
ance, and such conveyance, so executed, shall have the
same force and effect as if made by a sheriff who made
the sale.

§ 1018. [987.] The sheriff shall receive and keep in
the county jail every prisoner who is committed thereto
under civil or criminal process issued by a court of the
United States, until he be discharged according to‘ the
laws thereof, as if he had been committed under process
issued by the authority of this state. He may also re
ceive for his own use the sum payable by the United
States for the use of the jail.
. § 1019. [988.] A sheriff or jailer to whose custody a
prisoner is committed, as provided in the last section, is
answerable for his safe-keeping in the courts of the
United States, according to the laws thereof.
§ 1020. [989] No direction or authority by a party
or his attorney to a sheriff or his officer, in respect to the
execution of process or the return thereof, or to any act
or omission relating thereto, can be shown to discharge
or excuse the sheriff from a liability for neglect or mis-
conduct, unless it be contained in a writing signed by
the party to be charged or affected thereby or his
attorney.
§ 1021. [990.] When a sheriff is legally required to perform
a service on behalf of the state, which is not charge
able to his county or some other person, his account
therefor must be audited by the secretary of state, and
paid out of the state treasury.
§ 1022. [991.] A sheriff is justiﬁed in the execution of
process regular on its face, and appearing to have been
issued by competent authority, whatever 'may be the de-
feet in the proceedings in which it was issued.
_§ 1023. [992.] A sheriff executing process of any
kind is then, and at all times subsequent, so long as
he retains it, bound to show the same, with all papers
attached, to any person legally interested therein.
§ 1024. [993.] A sheriff or any sheriff's oﬂicer is prohibited
during his continuance in oﬁice from acting or
having a partner who acts as an attorney.
§ 1025. [994.] A sheriff or his officer upon whom a
paper in a judicial proceeding, directed to a prisoner in
his custody, is served, shall forthwith deliver it to the
prisoner, with a note thereon of the time of its service.
For a neglect to do so, the sheriff is liable to the prisoner
for all damages occasioned thereby, and by a willful
omission in this respect, the sheriff or his officer upon
whom the paper is served is guilty of a misdemeanor.
§l()26. [995.] The sheriff may appoint a keeper of
the county jail, to be denominated the jailer, for whose
acts as such he is responsible. The appointment shall
be in writing, and the sheriff shall ﬁle a certiﬁed copy
thereof in the oﬂice of the county clerk.
§1027. [996.] A coroner has power, and it is his
duty,
1. When he is informed that a person has been killed
or dangerously wounded by another, or has suddenly
died, under such circumstances as to afford a. reasonable
ground to suspect that his death has been occasioned by
criminal means, or has committed suicide, to inquire,
by the intervention of a jury, into the cause of the death
or wound, and to perform the other duties incidental
thereto, in the manner prescribed by statute;
2. To execute any process in any action, suit, or pro
ceeding, when the sheriff is a party, as prescribed in this
title;
3. To exercise the powers and perform the duties con
ferred and imposed upon him by other provisions of this
code or other statute.
§ 1028. [997 .] When the sheriff is a party to any
action, suit, or proceeding, the process therein, which
it would otherwise be the duty of the sheriff to execute,
shall, except when otherwise expressly provided by this
code, be executed by the coroner of the county.
§ 1029. [998.] A coroner who executes process in
any action, suit, or proceeding in the cases provided in
this title, must execute it in the same manner as the
sheriff should execute similar process, and in the execu
tion thereof, and in every matter incidental thereto, he
is invested with the powers, duties, and responsibilities
of the sheriff.
§ 1030. [999.] Crie-rs are appointed by the court in
which they act, as elsewhere provided in this code. It
is the duty of the crier,
1. To attend the sittings of the court for which he is
appointed;
2. To call parties and witnesses, and all other persons
bound to appear at the court;
3. To make proclamation of the opening or adjourn
ment of the court, or of any other matter under its di
rection.
§ 1031. [1000.] An attorney is a person authorized
to appear for and represent a party, in the written pro
ceedings in any action, suit, or proceeding, in any stage
thereof. An attorney, other than the one who represents
the party in the written proceedings, may also appear
for and represent a party in court, before a judicial
oﬁicer, and then he is known, in the particular action,
suit, or proceeding, as counsel only, and his authority is
limited to the matters that transpire in the court or be
fore such officer at the time.
§ 1032. [1001.] Any action, suit, or proceeding may
be prosecuted or defended by a party in person, or by
attorney, except that the state or a corporation, either
public or private, appears by attorney in all cases; and
where a party appears by attorney, the written proceed
ings must be in the name of the attorney, who is the
sole representative of his client as between him and the
adverse party, except as provided in the last section.
§ 1033. [1002.] An attorney is a public officer, but
any person may act in that capacity who has been ad
mitted as such by the supreme court of this state, or may
be hereafter admitted, as provided in this title.
§ 1034. [1003.] An applicant for admission as attor
ney must apply to the supreme court, and must show,
1. That he_ is a citizen of the United States and of this
state, and of the age of twenty-one years, which proof
may be made by his own affidavit;
2. That he is a person of good moral character, which
may be proved by any evidence satisfactory to the court;
3. That he has the requisite learning and ability,
Which must be shown by the examination of the appli-
cant, by the judges, or under their direction, in open
court, at the term at which the application is made.
§ 1035. Hereafter women shall be admitted to prac-
tice law as attorneys, in the courts of this state, upon the
. .
same terms and conditions as men.
§ 1036. [1004.] If, upon the examination, he be found
qualiﬁed, the court shall administer an oath to the appli-
cant, to support the constitution and laws of the United
States and of this state, and to faithfully and honestly
demean himself in otﬁce. The court shall then direct
an order to be entered to the effect that the applicant is
a citizen of the United States and of this state, of the
age of twenty-one years, of good moral character, and
possesses the requisite learning and ability to practice
as an attorney in all the courts of this state, and has
taken the oath of olﬁce; and upon the entry of the order,he
is entitled to practice as such attorney, and not otherwise.
§ 1037. [1005.] Whenever it appears that a person
of any other state or country is an attorney of the high-
est court of record in such state or country, he may ap-
pear as counsel for a party in a particular action, suit,
or proceeding then pending in court, or before a judicial
officer of this state, but not otherwise.
§ 1038. [1006.] It is the duty of an attorney,—
1. To support the constitution and laws of the United
States and of this state;
2. To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice
and judicial oﬂicers;
3. To counsel or maintain such actions, suits, or pro
ceedings or defenses only as may appear to him legal
and just, except the defense of a person charged with a
public oifense;
4. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the
causes conﬁded to him, such means only as are consist
ent with truth, and never to seek to mislead the court or
jury by any artiﬁce or false statement of law or fact;
5. To maintain inviolate the conﬁdence, and at every
peril to himself to preserve-the secrets, of his clients;
6. To abstain from all offensive personality, and to
advance no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of
a party or witness, unless required by the justice of the
cause with which he is charged;
7. Not to encourage either the commencement or the
continuance of an action, suit, or proceeding from any
motives of passion or interest; and,
8. Never to reject, for any consideration personal to
himself, the cause of the defenseless or the oppressed.
§ 1039. [1007.] An attorney has authority,—
1. To bind his client, in any of the proceedings in an
action, suit, or proceeding, by his agreement, ﬁled with
the clerk or entered upon the journal of the court, and
not otherwise;
2. To receive money or property claimed by his client
in an action, suit, or proceeding, during the pendency
thereof, or within three years after judgment or decree,
and upon the payment or delivery thereof, and not other
wise, to discharge the claim or acknowledge satisfaction
of the judgment or decree.
But this section does not prevent a party from
employing a new attorney to issue execution upon 0.
judgment or decree, or to take the other proceedings
prescribed by this code for its enforcement, and when he
does so, the authority of the former attorney ceases.

§ 1040. [1008.] If it be alleged, by a party for whom
an attorney appears, that he does so without authority,
and the allegation be veriﬁed by the aﬂidavit of the
party, the court may, if it ﬁnd the allegation true, at any
stage of the proceedings, relieve the party for whom the
attorney has assumed to appear from the consequences
of his acts.
See the ﬁrst subdivision of the note to the preceding section.
§ 1041. [1009.] The court or judge thereof may, on
motion of either party, and on showing reasonable
grounds therefor, require the attorney for the adverse
party, or for any one of several adverse parties, to pro
duce or prove the authority under which he appears, and
until he does so, may stay all proceedings by him on be
half of the party for whom he assumes to appear.
§ 1042. [1010.] The attorney in an action, suit, or
proceeding may be changed at any time before judgment
or decree, or ﬁnal determination, as follows:—
1. Upon his own consent, ﬁled with the clerk or
entered upon the journal; or,
2. Upon the order of the court or judge thereof, on
the application of the client or the attorney, for suﬁicient
cause.
§ 1043. [1011.] When an attorney is changed as pro
vided in the last section, written notice of the change
and of the substitution of a new attorney, or of the ap
pearance of the party in person, shall be given to the
adverse party. Until then he is bound to recognize the
former attorney.

§ 1044. [1012.] An attorney has a lien for I118 com
pensation, whether specially agreed upon or implied, as
provided in this section.
1. Upon the papers of his client which have come
into his possession in the course of his professional
employment;
2. Upon money in his hands belonging to his client;
3. Upon money in the hands of the adverse party, in
an action, suit, or proceeding in which the attorney was
employed, from the time of giving notice of the lien to
that party;
4. Upon a judgment or decree to the extent of the
costs included therein, or if there be a special agreement
to the extent of the compensation specially agreed on,
from the giving notice thereof to the party against
whom the judgment or decree is given, and ﬁling the
original with the clerk where such judgment or decree is
entered and docketed.
This lien is, however, subordinate to the rights exist
ing between the parties to the action, suit, or proceeding.
§ 1045. [1013.] An attorney may at any time ﬁle in
the oﬁice of the county clerk of the county in which he
resides a. written resignation; and after the ﬁling thereof
he is not entitled to the rights nor subject to the disabili
ties or prohibitions incident to that relation, except that
he is still subject to the power of the court in respect to
matters arising while he was an attorney.

§ 1045. [1013.] An attorney may at any time ﬁle in
the oﬁice of the county clerk of the county in which he
resides a. written resignation; and after the ﬁling thereof
he is not entitled to the rights nor subject to the disabili
ties or prohibitions incident to that relation, except that
he is still subject to the power of the court in respect to
matters arising while he was an attorney.
§1046. [1014.] The clerk of the county with whom
such resignation is ﬁled shall immediately forward a
certiﬁed copy thereof to the clerk of the supreme court,
who shall ﬁle the same in his oflice. An attorney who
has resigned may, at any time thereafter, be readmitted
to practice as such in the same manner as if he had
never been so admitted.
§ 1047. [1015.] An attorney may be removed or sus
pended by the supreme court for either of the following
causes, arising after his admission to practice:—
1. Upon his being convicted of any felony or of a mis
demeanor involving moral turpitude, in either of which
cases the record of his conviction is conclusive evidence;
2. For a willful disobedience or violation of the order
of a court requiring him to do or forbear an act con
nected with or in the course of his profession;
3. For being guilty of any willful deceit or misconduct
in his profession;
4. For a willful violation of any of the provisions of section 1038 [1006].

§1048. [1016.] The proceeding toremoveanattorney,
as provided in the last section, shall be taken by the
court, of its own motion, for matters within its knowl
edge, or that of any of the judges thereof; otherwise it
may be taken upon the information of another.
§ 1049. [1017.] If the proceedings be upon the mo
tion of the court or judges thereof, for matters within its
knowledge, the accusation shall be made by an order of
the court reciting the facts charged. If upon the infor
mation of another, the accusation must be presented to
the court, in writing, and veriﬁed by the oath of the per
son making it, or of some other person, to the effect that
the charges therein contained are true, as he believes.
§ 1050. [1018.] After the accusation has been made
or received, the court shall forthwith make an order
requiring the accused to appear and answer the accusa
tion, at a speciﬁed time in the same or a subsequent
term, and shall cause a copy of the order and of the ac
cusation to be served upon the accused, within a pre
scribed time, before the day appointed in the order to
appear and answer. But when the proceeding is upon the
information of another, the accusation shall be dismissed
at once, unless it appear therefrom that the accused
should be required to appear and answer the same.
§ 1051. [1019.,] The accused must appear at the time
appointed in the order, and answer the accusation, un
less, for suﬂicient cause, the court assign another day for
that purpose. If he do not appear, the court may pro
ceed and determine the accusation in his absence.
‘ § 1052. [1020.] The accused may demur to the accu
sation for insufficiency, or controvert it by answer. The
demurrer and answer shall be in writing, and the latter
shall be veriﬁed by the oath of the accused in the same
manner as a pleading in an action at law.
§1053. [1021.] If a demurrer, for insuﬁiciency, be
not sustained, the accused shall answer forthwith. If he
. -
plead guilty, or refuse to answer the accusation, the court
shall proceed to judgment of removal or suspension. If
he controvert the matters charged, the court shall then,
or at such time as it may appoint, proceed to try the ac
cusation, and give a judgment of removal, suspension, or
acquittal, according to law and the right of the case.
§1054. [1022.] When an accusation is made upon
the knowledge of the court or the judges thereof, the
‘facts therein stated are presumed to be true, but if the
accused controvert the accusation, he is allowed, on
the trial, to overcome such presumption by the introduc-
tion of any proper or pertinent evidence therefor.
§ 1055. [1023.] Any circuit or county court may sus-
pend an attorney from practicing therein for any of the
causes mentioned in section 1047 [1015], for a period not
beyond the adjournment of the next term of the supreme
court. The mode of proceeding shall be the same as pro-
vided in like proceedings in the supreme court. The
court giving the judgment of suspension shall cause a
certiﬁed copy of the judgment, pleadings, and proceedings
to be transmitted to the supreme court at the next term
thereof, and thereupon such court shall proceed against
the party suspended as if the proceeding had originated
in that court.
§ 1056. |_1024.] When an attorney refuses to deliver
over money or papers to a person from or for whom he
has received them in the course of professional employ-
ment, whether in a judicial proceeding or not, he may be
required by an order of the court in which a judicial
proceeding was prosecuted or defended, or if none were
prosecuted or defended, then by an order of the circuit
court or judge thereof for the county where such attor
ney resides or may be found, to do so within a speciﬁed
time, or show cause why he should not be punished for
a contempt.

§ 1057. [1025.] If, however, the attorney claim a lien
upon the money or papers, under the provisions of section
1044 [1012], the court shall,—
1. Impose, as a condition of making the order, that
the client give security, in form and amount to be
directed, to satisfy the lien, when determined in an ac
tion or suit; or,
2. Summarily inquire into the facts on which the
claim of a lien is founded, and determine the same; or,
, _ .
3. Direct the trial of the controversy by a Jury, or re
. . .
fer 1t, and upon the verdict or report, determine the
same as in other cases.

§1058. [1026.] Process in any action, suit, or pro
ceeding may be executed by a person specially appointed
by the court or judge thereof, who is denominated an
elisor, in either of the following cases:—
1. When the sheriff and coroner are parties;
2. When either of those oﬂiccrs is a party, and the
process is against one of them for a disobedience of an
order or process. against the other;
3. When the office of sheriff and coroner are vacant,
or when it appears to the satisfaction of such court or
judge that such process should be executed immediately,
and before the sheriff or coroner could be reached.
§1059. [lO27.] An elisor may be required to give
security in such manner as the court may direct. When
process is delivered to him, he must execute it in the
same manner as the sheriff should execute similar
process, and in the execution thereof, and in every mat
ter incidental thereto, he is invested with the powers,
duties and res onsibilities of the sheriff.
§1060. [1028.] A receiver is a person appointed by
-a court or judicial oﬁiccr to take charge of property
during the pendency of a civil action, suit, or proceeding,
or upon a judgment, decree, or order therein, and to
manage and dispose of it as the court or oﬂicer mav
direct.
§ 1061. [1029.] A receiver may be appointed in any
civil action, suit, or proceeding, other than an action for
the recovery of speciﬁc personal property,
1. Provisionally, before judgment or decree, on the
application of either party, when his right to the prop
erty, which is the subject of the action, suit, or proceed
ing, and which is in the possession of an adverse party,
is probable, and the property or its rents or proﬁts are
in danger of being lost or materially injured or impaired;
2. After judgment or decree, to carry the same into
eﬁ‘e<;t;
3. To dispose of the property according to the judg
ment or decree, or to preserve it during the pendency of
an appeal, or when an execution has been returned un
satisﬁed, and the debtor refuses to apply his property in
satisfaction of the judgment or decree;
4. In cases provided in this code, or by other statutes,
when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent,
or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its
corporate rights;
5. In the cases provided in this code when a debtor
has been declared insolvent.
§ 1062. [1030.] A receiver, before entering upon his
duties, shall be sworn faithfully to perform his trust, to
the best of his ability, and shall also ﬁle with the clerk 8
‘of the court an undertaking, of one or more suﬁicient,
r
sureties, in a speciﬁed sum, to be ﬁxed by the court or
judge thereof, to the effect that he will faithfully dis
charge the duties of receiver, and will obey the orders of
the court or judge thereof in respect thereto. The sure
ties must justify in the same manner as bail upon an
arrest.

§ 1063. [1031.] Parties to a judicial proceeding are
required to contribute towards the expense of maintain
. . . I . -
1ng courts of justice, or a particular action, su1t, or pro
ceeding therem, by the payment of certam sums of
money, as provided in this title, which are denominated
trial and district attorney fees.
§ 1064. [1032.] The trial fee in the several courts is
as follows: —
1. In the supreme court, upon each appeal heard and
determined, six dollars;
2. In the circuit court, for every trial by jury, twelve
dollars; for every trial by the court, six dollars; for every
judgment or decree given without trial, three dollars;
3. In the county court, one half the amount required
in the circuit court in like cases;
4. In jnstice’s court, for every trial by jury, six dollars.
§ 1065. [1033.] The trial fee is to be paid by the
plaintiff, appellant, or moving party, before he is entitled
to or can claim the trial or other proceeding upon which
such fee is imposed, and if the party paying such fee
prevail in the action, suit, or proceeding, so as to be en
titled to recover costs therein, such fee shall be allowed
and taxed as a. disbursement, and collected off the ad
verse party.

§ 1066. [1034.] When the state or any county therein
is a party to a judicial proceeding, it need not pay the
trial fee in advance, and if it be entitled to recover costs
therein, such fee shall be allowed and taxed in its favor
as a disbursement, and collected oﬂ‘ the adverse party as
in ordinary cases.
§ 1067. [1035.] The trial fee in a justice’s court shall
be paid to the justice upon the demand ‘for a jury, and
unless so paid, the demand shall be disregarded, and the
trial proceed as if no such demand had been made, ex-
cept when a party is prosecuted in a criminal action at
the suit of the state, in which case the party is entitled
to a jury trial without the prepayment of such fee; and
if judgment be given against him, the fee shall be
allowed and taxed in favor of the state as other disburse
ments in ordinary cases.
§ 1068. [1036.] Whenever any action, suit, or proceeding
is commenced in the circuit court, which might
have been commenced in the county court, the plaintiff
therein shall pay the trial fees required in the circuit
court, but shall not be entitled to recover off the adverse
party any more of such fees than an amount equal to
the fees in the county court in like cases.
§ 1069. [1037.] ‘If at any time it appear to the satis
faction of the court or judge thereof, from the aﬂidavit
of the party or other evidence, that he cannot pay the
_ _ _
tr1al fee, such court or judge may direct that he be al
lowed to proceed without the prepayment thereof; but
if such party prevail so as to be entitled to collect such
fee, as a disbursement, off the adverse party, when col
lected it shall be retained by the clerk as if paid in
advance.
§ 1070. [1038.] The trial fees shall be paid tothe clerk
of the court, who shall keep a regular account of them,
and by whom paid, in his fee-book, and pay the amount
of such fees received to the treasurer of the county, as
often as once a month, taking his receipt therefor in
duplicate, one of which such clerk shall ﬁle in his
oﬁice, and the other he may retain as his private prop
erty. At the annual accounting of the county ofﬁcers
with the county court, the clerk shall exhibit to such
court a detailed statement of the trial fees received by
him in the course of the year, veriﬁed by his own oath.
§ 1071. [1039.] The trial fees in the supreme court
shall be paid, deposited, and accounted for as provided
in the last section, except that they shall be paid by the
clerk to the treasurer of the state, and that the veriﬁed
statement of the clerk shall be made to the secretary of
state on or before the ﬁrst Monday in September, for the
year preceding.
§ 1072. [1040.] In justice’s court, the trial fee is paid
to the justice. He shall keep an account of them, and
b whom aid, and distribute the amount amon the
Y P g
jury in the particular case, in payment of their legal
fees.
§ 1073. [1041.] The district attorney, in addition to
the salary and per diem allowed him by law, shall receive
the following fees:—
1. In a criminal action when the punishment is death
or imprisonment for life, if the defendant is convicted,
twenty-ﬁve dollars, or if acquitted, one half thereof;
2. In a criminal action when the punishment is im
prisonment in the penitentiary for a term of years, if
the defendant is convicted, ﬁfteen dollars, or if acquitted,
one half thereof;
3. In a criminal action for a misdemeanor, if the de
fendant is convicted, ten dollars, or if acquitted, one half
thereof;
4. In a civil action for the recovery of any ﬁne, pen
alty, or forfeiture, ten per centum on the amount actually
collected;
5. For prosecuting or defending any other civil action,
suit, or proceeding not herein mentioned, to which the
state or any county in his district is a party, twenty-ﬁve
dollars;
6. For actually defending, on behalf of the state, a suit
for the dissolution of the marriage contract, or to declare
the same void, ten dollars;
7. For prosecuting or defending any action, suit, or
proceeding herein mentioned, or appeal to the supreme
court, twenty dollars.

 1074. [1042.] The fees provided for in the last sec-
tion shall be paid to the district attorney by the county
where the services are rendered, excepting the fees in the
prosecution or defense of a civil action, suit, or proceed
ing to which the state is a party, and in divorce suits.
At each term of the court, the court shall ascertain the
fees to which the district attorney is entitled for the
term, and direct an order to be entered upon the journal
that the same be paid. Upon presentation of a certiﬁed
copy of such order to the proper oﬁicer of the state or
county, it shall be his duty to draw his warrant upon
the treasurer of the state or county for amount therein
\
speciﬁed, excepting his fees in divorce suits. It is hereby
made the duty of the plaintiff in every divorce suit to
deposit with the clerk of the court in which the suit is
instituted, before the complaint is ﬁled, the sum of ten
dollars, which sum shall be paid to the district attorney
by the clerk as his fee in such suit, when his fee therein
is allowed by the court as aforesaid; and if the plaintiff
prevail in such suit, he or she shall be allowed such sum
of ten dollars as a disbursement against the defendant.
The clerk shall not receive or ﬁle the complaint in any
suit for divorce until such fee be deposited.
Laws of 1878, p. 98.
§1075. [1043.] In a criminal action, if the defend_
ant is convicted, the clerk shall allow and tax in favor of
the county the amount of the district attorney fee in
the action, which shall be collected off the defendant.
Such fees shall be paid by the clerk to the treasurer of
the county, and accounted for in the same manner as
‘trial fees.
§1076. [1044.] In an action, suit, or proceeding,
other than a criminal action, the fee of the district at
torney is not taxed as a disbursement, but the county
that is liable to pay such fee is entitled to costs oﬂ‘ the
adverse party, as in ordinary cases. Such costs, when
collected, shall be paid by the clerk to the treasurer of
the county, and accounted for in the same manner as
trial fees. Fees earned in the supreme court are to be
paid by the county from whence the appeal was taken,
upon the order of the court, as in the courts below, and
when collected are disposed of in the same manner.
§ 1077. [1045.] There are no particular pleadings or
forms thereof in the county court, when exercising the
jurisdiction of probate matters, as speciﬁed in section
895 [869], other than as provided in this chapter.
Jurisdiction of county court as court of probate: See ante, § 895 [$69].
§ 1078. [1046.] The mode of proceeding is in the nature
of that in a suit in equity as distinguished from an
action at law. The proceedings are in writing, and are
had upon the application of a party or the order of the
court. The court exercises its powers by means of, —
1. A citation to the party;
. An affidavit or the veriﬁed petition or statement of
a party;
3. A subpoena to a witness;
4. Orders and decrees;
5. An execution or warrant to enforce them.
Power of court is wholly statu- the means provided in this section:
tory, and is brought into action only by See Wright v. Edwards, 10 Or. 301.
§ 1079. [1047.] The proceedings in probate matters
shall be entered and recorded in the following books:—
. . .
1. A register, in which shall be entered a memoran
dum of all ofﬁcial business transacted by the court or
judge thereof, appertaining to the estate of each person
deceased underthe name of such person; that pertaining
to the guardianship of an infant under the name of such
infant; that pertaining to an insane person or a drunk
ard under his name;
2. A record of wills, in which shall be recorded all
wills proven before the court or judge thereof, with the
order of probate thereof, and of all wills proved else
where upon which letters of administration are issued by
the direction of such court or judge;
3. A record of the appointment of administrators,
whether general or special, or of a partnership and of
executors;
4. A record of the appointment of guardians of infants,
insane persons, and drunkards;
5. A record of accounting and distribution, in which
shall be entered a summary balance sheet of the accounts
of administrators, executors, and guardians, with the
orders and decrees relating to the same; a memorandum
of executions issued thereon, with a note of satisfaction
when satisﬁed; also orders and decrees relating to the
sale of real property and to the distribution of the pro
ceeds thereof; and notices of all money or securities paid
or deposited in court as proceeds of such sales or other
wise; and a statement showing the names of creditors,
and the debts established and entitled to distribution,
the amount to which each person is entitled out of such
funds, and the amount actually paid to each person, and
when paid;
6. A record of the appointment of admeasurer of
dower, with all orders and decrees relating to the same,
and the admeasurer’s report;
7. An order-book, in which shall be entered orders
directing the conduct of executors, administrators, or
guardians; orders for publication of notice to creditors;
orders in behalf of creditors directing debts to be paid,
or allowing an execution to be issued; appointments of
special guardians, appraisers, and referees; orders relat
ing to the production of a will, to removal of executors,
administrators, or guardians, or to sureties therefor; and
generally, all other orders not required to be entered in
some other book.
§ 1081. [1049.] Costs may be awarded in favor of one
party against another, to be paid personally or out of the
. .
estate or fund m an roceedm s contested adversel Y
but such costs cannot exceed those allowed in the trial
7 ),
of a civil action in the county court. Witness’s fees and
other disbursements similar to those allowed on the trial
of a civil action may also be allowed, to be paid in like
manner.
Amount of costs: See § 552 [542].
§ 1082. [l050.] Orders or decrees for the payment of
money may be enforced by execution or otherwise, in
the same manner as orders or decrees for the payment
_ . _
of money in the circuit court.
§ 1083. [1051.] Proof of a will shall be taken by the
county court as follows:—
1. When the testator, at or immediately before his
death, was an inhabitant of the county, in whatever place
he may have died;
2. When the testator, not being an inhabitant of this
state, shall have died in the county, leaving assets therein;
3. When the testator, not being an inhabitant of this
state, shall have died out of the state, leaving assets in
the county;
4. When the testator, not being an inhabitant of this
state, shall have died out of the state, not leaving assets
therein, but where assets thereafter came into the county;
5. When real property, devised by the testator, is situ
ated in the county, and no other county court has gained
jurisdiction under either of the preceding subdivisions
of this section.
§ 1084. [1052.] When a will is proven, letters testa-
. ,
mentary shall be issued to the persons therein named as
, _ .
executors, or to such of them as give notice of their ac-
. V
ceptance of the trust and are quahﬁed. If all the persons
therein named decline to accept, or be disqualified, letters
of administration with the will annexed shall be issued
to the person to whom the administration would have
been granted if there -had been no will.
§ 1085. [1053.] Administration of the estate of an
intestate shall be granted by the county court, authorized
to take proof of a will as prescribed in section 1083 [1051],in case such intestate had made a will. Administration
shall be granted, and letters thereof issued, as follows:-—
1. To the widow or next of kin, or both, in the dl-l3~!~
cretion of the court;
2. To one or more of the principal creditors; or,
3. To any other person competent and qualiﬁed whom
the court may select.
§ 1086. [1054.] The persons named in the subdivis
. . . .
ions of the last section, if quahﬁed and competent for
the trust, shall be entitled to the administration in the
order therein named. If those named in subdivision 1
do not apply for the administration within thirty days
from the decease of the intestate, they shall be deemed
to have renounced their right thereto; but the court or
judge thereof in its discretion may, if they reside within
the county, direct that a citation issue to them, requir
ing them within such period to apply for or renounce
their right of administration; and if the persons named
in subdivision 2 do not make such application within
forty days from such decease, they shall be deemed to
have renounced their right to the administration also.
§ 1087. [1055.] If the deceased wereamarried woman,
the administration of her estate shall in all cases be
granted to her husband, if he be quahﬁed and competent
for the trust, and apply therefor within thirty days from
her decease, unless by force of a marriage settlement, or
otherwise, she shall have made some testamentary dis
position of her property which shall render it necessary
and proper to grant the administration to some other
person.
§ 1088. [1056.] No executor or administrator is au
thorized to act as such until he shall ﬁle with the clerk
of the county court having jurisdiction of the estate an
undertaking in a sum not less than double the probable
value of the estate, with one or more sufﬁcient sureties,
to be approved by the county judge, to be void upon the
condition that such executor or administrator shall faith
fully perform the duties of his trust according to law;
provided, that when by the terms of his will a testator
shall expressly declare that no bonds shall be required
of his executors, such executors may act upon taking an
oath to faithfully fulﬁll his trust without ﬁling the uh-
dertaking in this section mentioned; provided further,
that such executor shall be criminally and civilly liable
as other executors and administrators are for any dere
liction of duty.
§ 1089. [1057.] Whenever the penal sumpmentioned
in the undertaking prescribed in the preceding section
exceeds two thousand dollars, three or more sureties may
become severably liable for portions of said sum, if the
aggregate sum for which such sureties become liable
shall equal the penal sum required in the undertaking.
§ 1090. [1058.] If a person be named in a will as ex-
ecutor who is a non-resident of the state or a minor,
upon the removal of such disability he is entitled to
qualify as such executor, if he apply therefor within
thirty days from the removal of such disability, if other-
wise competent. If, in the mean time, an administrator
with the will annexed has been appointed, his powers
and duties cease with the qualiﬁcation of such executor;
but if another executor has qualiﬁed and is acting as
such, they thereby become joint executors.
§ 1091. [1059.] When for any reason there shall be
delay in issuing letters testamentary or of administra
tion, and the property of the deceased is in danger of
being lost, injured, or depreciated, the court or judgé
thereof may appoint a special administrator to take
charge of the estate, who shall qualify in like manner,
and have the powers and perform the duties of an ad
ministrator generally, except that he is not authorized
to pay the debts of or otherwise discharge any obligation
against the deceased. Upon the issuing of letters testa
mentary or of administration, the powers of the special
administrator cease.
§1092. [1060.] In an application to prove a will or
for the appointment of an executor or administrator, the
petition shall set forth the facts necessary to give the
court jurisdiction, and also state whether the deceased
left a will or not, and the names, age, and residence, so
far as known, of his heirs.

§ 1093. [1061.] If, after administration has been
granted upon an estate, a will of the deceased be found
and proven, the letters of administration shall be revoked
and letters testamentary or of administration with the
will annexed shall be issued; and if after a will has been
proven, and letters testamentary or of administration
with the will annexed have been issued thereon, such
will should be set aside, declared void or inoperative,
such letters shall be revoked, and letters of administra—
tion issued. .
§ 1094. [1062.] Any heir, legatee, devisee, creditor,
or other person interested in the estate may apply for
the removal of an executor or administrator who has
become of unsound mind, or been convicted of any
felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or
who has, in any way, been unfaithful to or neglected
his trust, to the probable loss of the applicant. Such
application shall be by petition, and upon notice to the
executor or administrator, and if the court ﬁnd the
charge to be true, it shall make an order removing such
executor or administrator, and revoke his letters.
§1095. [lO63.] If an executor or an administrator
become a non-resident of this state, he may be removed
and his letters revoked in the manner prescribed in the
last section, except that the notice may be given by pub-
lication for such time as the court or judge thereof may
direct.
§ 1096. [1064.] Whenever the amount of an executor’s
or administrator's undertaking is insuﬁicient, or
the sureties therein or either of them have become nonresidents
of this state, or are likely to or have become
insolvent, such executor or administrator shall be re
quired to give a new and sutﬁcient undertaking. The
application for such new undertaking may be made by
any heir, legatee, devises, creditor, or other person in
terested in the estate, and in the manner prescribed in
section 1094 [1062] for the removal of executors and ad
ministrators.
Inmmciency of bond: See note to § 1088 [1056.]
§1097. [1065.] Such new undertaking, when given
and received, shall discharge the sureties in the former
undertaking from any liabilities on account of their
principal, arising from his acts or omissions subsequent
thereto. When a new undertaking is ordered, if the
executor or administrator fail to comply therewith within
ﬁve days from the entry thereof, or such further time as
the order may prescribe, thenceforward the authority of
such executor or administrator shall cease, and he shall
be deemed removed and his letters revoked.
§1098. [1066.] Whenever an executor or administrator
shall die, resign, or be removed, if there be a
co-executor or administrator he shall thenceforward
. exerc1se
the powers and perform the duties of the trust;
- . . .and if all the executors or administrators shall die,
resign, or be removed, administration of the estate re-~
maining unadministered shall be granted to those next
entitled, if they be competent and qualiﬁed.
§ 1099. [1067.] The surviving or remaining executor
or administrator, or the new administrator, as the case
may be, is entitled to the exclusive administration of
the estate, and for that purpose may maintain any
necessary and proper action, suit, or proceeding on ac
count thereof, against the executor or administrator
ceasing to act, or against his sureties or representatives.
§ 1100. [1068.] Whenever it appears probable to the
court or judge that any of the causes for removal of an
. . . .
executor or administrator exist or have transpired, as
speciﬁed in section 1094 [1062], it shall be the duty of
such court or judge to cite such executor or administra
tor to appear and show cause why he should not be re
moved, and if he fail to appear or to show suﬂicient
cause, an order shall be made removing him and revok
ing his letters; and it is the duty of the court or judge
thereof to exercise a supervisory control over an execu
tor or administrator, to the end that he faithfully and dili_
gently perform the duties of his trust according to law.
§1101. [1069.] The executor or administrator of a
deceased person, who was a member of a copartnership,
. . . , .
shall include in the inventory of such person s estate, in
a separate schedule, the whole of the property of such
partnership; and the appraisers shall estimate the value
thereof, and also the value of such person’s individual
interest in the partnership property, after the payment
or satisfaction of all the debts and liabilities of the
partnership.
§ 1102. [1070.] After the inventory is taken, the part
nership property shall be in the custody and control of the
executor or administrator, for the purposes of administra
tion, unless the surviving partner shall, within ﬁve days
from the ﬁling of the inventory, or such further time as
the court or judge may allow, apply for the administra-
tion thereof, and give the undertaking therefor hereinafter
prescribed.
§ 1103. [1071.] If the surviving partner apply there-
for, as provided in the last section, he is entitled to the
administration of the partnership estate, if he have the
qualiﬁcations and competency required for a general
administrator. He is denominated an administrator of
the partnership, and his powers and duties extend to the
settlement of the partnership business generally, and the
payment or transfer of the interest of the deceased in
the partnership property remaining after the payment or
satisfaction of the debts and liabilities of the partnership,
to the executor or general administrator within six
months from the date of his appointment, or such further
time, if necessary, as the court or judge may allow. In
the exercise of his powers and the performance of his
duties, the administrator of the partnership is subject
to the same limitations and liabilities, and control and
jurisdiction of the court, as a general administrator.

§ 1104. [1072.] The undertaking of the administra-
tor of the partnership shall be in a sum not less than
double the value of the partnership property, and shall
be given in the same manner and be to the same effect
as the undertaking of a general administrator.
§ 1105. [1073.] In case the surviving partner is not
appointed administrator of the partnership, the admin-
istration thereof devolves upon the executor or general
administrator; but before entering upon the duties of
_ _ . . _ _
such administration he shall give an additional under-
_
taking in double the value of the partnership property.
' § 1106. [1074.] Every surviving partner, on the de-
mand of an executor or administrator of a deceased
partner, shall exhibit and give information concerning
the property of the partnership at the time of the death
of the deceased partner, so that the same may be cor
rectly inventoried and appraised; and in case the ad
ministration thereof shall devolve upon the executor or
administrator, such survivor shall deliver or transfer to
him on demand all the property of the partnership, in
cluding all books, papers, and documents pertaining to the
same, and shall afford him all reasonable information and
facilities for the performance of the duties of his trust.
§ 1107. [1075.] Any surviving partner who shall re
fuse or neglect to comply with the requirements of the
last section may be cited to appear before the court or
judge, and unless he show cause to the contrary, the court
or judge shall require him to comply with such section
in the particular complained of.
§ 1108. [1076.] The following persons are not quali
ﬁed to act as executors or administrators: non-residents
of this state; minors; judicial otﬁcers, other than justices
of the peace; persons of unsound mind, or who have
been convicted of any felony, or of a misdemeanor in
volving moral turpitude; or a married woman.
§1109. [1077.] Letters testamentary may be in the
following form:—
STATE or OREGON,
SS.
Counrr or
To all persons to whom these presents shall come, greeting:
Know ye, that the will of —, deceased, a copy of
Which is hereto annexed, has been duly proven in the
county court, for the county aforesaid, and that ,
who is named executor therein, has been duly appointed
such executor by the court aforesaid; this therefore
authorizes the said to administer the estate of
the said -—— , deceased, according to law.
In testimony whereof, I, -—— , clerk of the
[L. s.] county court, have hereunto subscribed my name
and afﬁxed the seal of said court, this —— day of
, A. D. 18-. A B, Clerk County Court.
§ 1110. [107 8.] Letters of administration may be in
the following form:——
STATE or OREGON) SS
COUNTY or . § '
T0 all persons to whom these presents shall come, greeting:
Know ye, that it appearing to the court aforesaid, that
has died intestate, leaving at the time of his
death property in this state, such court has duly appointed
administrator of the estate of such ;
this therefore authorizes the said to administer
the estate of the said —— , deceased, according to
law. _
In testimony whereof, etc., the same as in letters tes
tamentary. Letters to an administrator of the partner
ship with the will annexed, or to a special administrator,
may be issued according to the foregoing forms, with
such variations as may be proper in the particular case.

§ 1111. [1079.] The court or judge thereof, in its dis
cretion, may allow an executor or administrator to resign,
when it appears that such executor or administrator has
published a notice of his intention to apply therefor in
some newspaper in general circulation in the county, for
the period of four weeks prior to such application, and
that he is not in default in any matter connected with
the duties of his trust. Such executor or administrator
shall pay the cost of the proceeding, and if the applica
tion is allowed, he shall surrender his letters to be can
celed, and his powers as such shall cease from that time
forward.
§ 1112. [1080.] An executor or administrator shall,
within one month from the date of his appointment, or,
if necessary, such further time as the court or judge
thereof may allow, make and ﬁle with the clerk an inven
tory, veriﬁed by his own oath, of all the real and per
sonal property of the deceased which shall come to his
possession or knowledge.
§ 1113. [1081.] The inventory shall contain an ac
count of all money belonging to the deceased, or a state
ment that none has come to the possession or knowledge
of the executor or administrator; also a statement of all '
debts due the deceased, the written evidence thereof, and
the security therefor, if any exist, specifying the name
of each debtor, the date of each written evidence of debt,
and security therefor, the sum originally payable, the in
dorsements thereon, if any, and their dates, and the sum appearing then to be due thereon.

§1114. [1082.] Before the inventory is ﬁled, the
property therein speciﬁed shall be appraised at its true
cash value by three disinterested and competent persons,
who shall be appointed by the court or judge thereof;
but if any part of the property shall be in a county other
than that where the administration is granted, the appraisers
thereof may be appointed by such court or judge,
or the court or judge thereof of the county where the
property shall be; in the latter case, a certiﬁed copy of
the order of appointment shall be ﬁled with the inventory.
§ 1115. [1083.] Before making the appraisement, the
appraisers shall each take and subscribe an aﬁidavit, to
be ﬁled with the inventory, to the effect that he will honestly
and impartially appraise the property which shall
be exhibited to him according to the best of his knowl
edge and ability.
§ 1116. [1084.] The appraisers shall appraise each
article of property separately, and set down the value
thereof in dollars and cents, opposite the entry of the
article in the inventory. Money, of whatever nature,
that is a legal tender, is to be appraised at its nominal
value; but debts, of all descriptions or kinds, are to be‘
appraised at that sum which, in the judgment of the ap
praisers, may be realized from them by due process of
law. When the appraisement is completed, the inven
tory shall be signed by the appraisers.
§ 1117. [1085.] The naming any one executor in a
will shall not operate to discharge such executor from
any claim which the testator had against him, but the
claim shall be included in the inventory; and if the person
so named afterwards take upon himself the admin
istration of the estate, he shall be liable for such claim
as for so much money in his hands at the time the claim
became due and payable; otherwise he is liable for such
claim as any other debtor of the deceased.
§ 1118. [1086.] The discharge or bequest in a will
of any claim of the testator against a person named as
executor therein, or against any other person, shall, as
against the creditors of the deceased, be invalid. Such
claim shall be included in the inventory, and for all the,
purposes of administration is to be deemed and treated
as a speciﬁc legacy of that amount.
§1119. [1087.] If, after the ﬁling of the inventory,
property not mentioned therein shall come to the knowl
edge or possession of the executor or administrator, it is
his duty immediately to make an inventory thereof, and
cause the same to be appraised in the manner prescribed
in this title, and ﬁle the same with the clerk.
§ 1120. [1088.] The executor or administrator is en
titled to the possession and control of the property of
the deceased, both real and personal, and to receive the
rents and proﬁts thereof until the administration is com
pleted, or the same is surrendered to the heirs or dev
isees by order of the court or judge thereof; but where
such property, or any portion thereof, is in the posses
sion of a third person, by virtue of a valid subsisting
lease or bailment, the possession and control of the ex
ecutor or administrator is subordinate to the right of the
lessee or bailee. During the time the property is in
the possession or control of the executor or administra
tor, it is his duty to keep the same in repair, and pro
serve it from loss or decay as far as possible.

§1121. [1089.] Whenever it appears probable from
the aﬂhlavit of an executor or administrator, or that of
an heir or other person interested in the estate, that any
person has concealed or in any way secreted or disposed
of any property of the estate, or any writing relating or
pertaining thereto, or that such person has knowledge of
any such property or writing being so concealed, secreted,
or disposed of, and refuses to disclose the same to the
executor or administrator, the court or judge thereof,
upon the application of such executor or administrator,
may cite such person to appear and answer under oath
concerning the matter charged.
v. Grant,
§1122. [1090.] Such examination may be oral or
upon written interrogatories ﬁled by the applicant, but
. . .
an either case the answers of the person cited shall be
reduced to writing, and subscribed by him and ﬁled. If
such person be not in the county where administration
is granted, the proceeding may be either before the court
or judge thereof of such county, or before the court or
judge thereof of the county where such person resides or
may be found. In the latter case, a certiﬁed copy of the
written interrogatories, if any, and the examination or
other proceeding thereon or connected therewith, shall
be ﬁled with the clerk of the court where administration
is granted.
§ 1123. [1091.] If the person so cited refuse to ap-gJ
pear, or to answer such interrogatories as may be allowed
to be put to him touching the matter charged, he may
be punished for a contempt, or may at once be committed,
by the warrant of the judge, to the county jail, there to
remain in close custody until he submits to the order of
the court or judge.
§ 1124. [1092.] The court or judge thereof, upon the
application of the executor or administrator, may cite
any person who has been intrusted with any of the prop.erty
of the deceased, to appear and answer concernmg the
same when it appears probable that such person refuses
or neglects to render to the executor or administrator a
true account thereof. The application shall be made and
the proceeding conducted in the manner prescribed in
sections 1121 [1089], 1122 [1090], and 1123 [1091], con
cerning property or writings alleged to be concealed, and
with like eﬂ‘ect.
§ 1125. L109:-3.] If any person shall, before administration
is granted, embezzle, alien, or in any way convert
to his own use any of the property of a deceased person,
he is liable to the executor or administrator in double
_
the amount of damages Wh1Ch may be assessed therefor.
§ 1126. [1094.] Until administration of the estate
has been granted and the inventory ﬁled, the widow and
minor children of the deceased are entitled to remain in
the possession of the homestead, all the wearing apparel
of the family and household furniture of the deceased,
and also to have a reasonable provision-for their support
during such period, to be allowed by the court or judge
thereof.

§ 1127. [1095.] Upon the ﬁling of the inventory, the
court or judge thereof shall make an order, setting apart,
_ . . -
for the widow or minor children of the deceased, if any,
all the property of the estate by law exempt from execu
tion. The property thus set apart, if there be a widow,
is her property, to be used or expended by her in the
maintenance of herself and minor children, if any; or
if there be no widow, it is the property of the minor
child; or if more than one, of the minor children in
equal shares, to be used or expended in the nurture and
education of such child or children, by the guardian
thereof, as the law directs.
§ 1128. [1096.] If the property so exempt is insuiﬁ
_ . . .
ment for the support of the W1dOW and minor children,
. . . . . . .
according to their circumstances and condition in life,
for one year after the ﬁling of the inventory, the court
or judge thereof may order that the executor or adminis
trator pay to such widow, if any, and if not, then to the
guardian of such minor children, an amount suﬁicient
for that purpose; but such order shall not be made unless
it appear probable that the estate is suﬁicient to satisfy
all the debts and liabilities of the deceased, and pay the
expenses of administration in addition to the payment
of such amount.
§ 1129. [1097.] If from the inventory of an intes-
tate’s estate, who died leaving a; widow or minor children,
it appears that the value of the estate does not exceed
one hundred and ﬁfty dollars over and above property
exempt from execution, upon the ﬁling of the inventory
the court or judge thereof shall make a decree providing
that the whole of the estate, after the payment of funeral
expenses and expenses of administration, be set apart for
such widow or minor children, in like manner and with
like effect, as in case of property exempt from execution.
There shall be no further proceeding in the administra
tion of such estate, unless further property be discovered.
§ 1130. [1098.] If an intestate leave neither widow
nor minor children, all the property of the estate is
assets in the hands of the administrator, for the payment
. . .
of funeral expenses, expenses of administration, payment
of the debts of the deceased, or distribution according to
law.
§ 1131. [1099.] Every executor or administrator shall,
immediately after his appointment, publish a notice
thereof, in some newspaper published in the county, if
there be one, or otherwise in such paper as may be des
ignated by the court or judge thereof, as often as once
a week, for four successive weeks, and oftener if the court
or judge shall so direct. Such notice shall require all
persons having claims against the estate to present them,
with the proper vouchers, within six months from the
date of such notice, to the executor or the administrator,
at a place within the county therein speciﬁed.
§ 1132. [1100.] Before the expiration of the six
months mentioned in the last section, a copy of the notice
as published, with the proper proof of publication, shall
be ﬁled with the clerk. A claim not presented within
six months after the ﬁrst publication of the notice is not
barred, but it cannot be paid until the claims presented
within that period have been satisﬁed; and if the claim
be not then due, or if it be contingent, it shall neverthe
less be presented as any other claim. Until the adminis
tration has been completed, a claim against the estate
not barred by the statute of limitations may be pre
sented, allowed, and paid out of any assets then in the
hands of the executor or administrator not otherwise
appropriated or liable.
§ 1133. [1101.] Every claim presented to the execu_
tor or administrator shall be veriﬁed by the aﬂidavit of
the claimant, or some one on his behalf, who has per
sonal knowledge of the facts, to the effect that the amount
claimed is justly due, that no payments have been made
thereon, except as stated, and that there is no just coun
terclaim to the same, to the knowledge of the afﬁant.
When it appears or is alleged that there is any written
evidence of such claim, the same may be demanded by
the executor or administrator, or that its non-production
be accounted for.
§ 1134. [1102.] When the claim is presented to the
executor or administrator as prescribed in the last sec
tion, if he shall be satisﬁed that the claim thus presented
is just, he shall indorse upon it the words “examined
and approved,” with the date thereof, and sign the same
ofﬁcially, and shall pay such claim in due course of ad
ministration; but if he shall not be so satisﬁed, he shall
indorse thereon the words “ examined and rejected,” with
the date thereof, and sign the same oﬂicially. Every
executor or administrator shall keep a list of all demands
legally exhibited against the estate of the testator or
intestate, and shall, every three months, ﬁle with the
county court a statement of all such claims as have been
presented, and whether the same have been allowed or
rejected by him. If any executor or administrator shall
refuse to allow any claim or demand against the deceased,
after the same may have been exhibited to him in ac
cordance with the provisions of this act, said claimant
may present his claim to the county court for allowance,
giying the executor or administrator ten days’ notice of
such application to the court. The court shall have
power to hear and determine in a summary manner all
demands against any estate agreeably to the provisions
of this act, and which have been so rejected by the ex
ecutor or administrator, and shall cause a concise entry
of the order of allowance or rejection to be made on the
record, which order shall have the force and effect of a
judgment from which an appeal may be taken as in
ordinary cases; provided, that no claim which shall have
been rejected by the executor or administrator, as afore
said, shall be allowed by any court, referee, or jury, ex
cept upon some competent or satisfactory evidence other
than the testimony of the claimant. No claim shall be
allowed by the executor or administrator or the county
court which is barred by the statute of limitation.
Laws of 1885, p. 44.
§ 1135. [1103.] The effect of a judgment or decree
against an executor or administrator, on account of a
claim against the estate of his testator or intestate, is
only to establish the claim, as if it had been allowed by
him, so as to require it to be satisﬁed in due course of
administration, unless it appear that the complaint al
leged assets in his hands applicable to the satisfaction of
such claim, and that such allegation was admitted or
found to be true, in which case the judgment or decree
may be enforced against such executor or administrator
personally.
§ 1136. [1104.] A claim established by judgment or
decree against the deceased in his lifetime need not be
veriﬁed by aﬁidavit, but it is sufficient to present a certi
ﬁed copy of the judgment docket thereof to the executor
or administrator for allowance or rejection, as in other
cases; but this section is not to be construed to prevent
an execution from being issued upon such judgment or
decree, as elsewhere provided in this code,
§ 1137. [1105.] If the executor or administrator doubt
the validity of any claim presented to him, he may agree
in writing with the claimant that an order of reference
be made by the court or judge thereof concerning the
same. Upon the ﬁling of such agreement, such court or
judge shall make the order accordingly.
§ 1138. [1106.] The referee shall proceed to hear and
determine the matter, and report thereon to the court,
where the order of reference was made, in the same man
ner and with like effect as if the order was made in an
action or suit upon such claim.

§ 1139. [l107.] If the executor or administrator is
himself a creditor of the testator or intestate, his claim,
duly veriﬁed, may be presented to the court or judge
thereof, for allowance or rejection; but the allowance of
such claim by such court or judge does not conclude a
creditor, heir, or other person interested in the estate, in
any action, suit, or proceeding between such executor
or administrator and such creditor, heir, or other person.
§1140. [1108.] If the court or judge thereof reject
the claim of the executor or administrator, either in
whole or in part, or in case the same is not presented for
allowance as provided in the last section, the executor or
administrator may retain the amount thereof until the
ﬁnal settlement of his accounts, when, if the same is
controverted or objected to by any person interested in
the estate, the right of the executor or administrator to
have the allowance claimed shall be tried and deter
mined by the court. If the claim is not presented to the
court or judge, as provided in section 1139 [1107], before
it is barred by the statute of limitations, such claim can
not be allowed, retained, or recovered
§ 1141. [1109.] No sale of the property of an estate
is valid unless made by order of the court or judge
thereof, as in this title prescribed, unless herein other
wise provided. The application for an order of sale shall
be by the petition of the executor or administrator, and
in case of real property, a citation to the heirs and others
interested in such property.
§ 1142. [1110.] Upon the ﬁling of the inventory, or
at the next term of court, the executor shall make an
application to sell the personal property of the estate, or
so much thereof as may be necessary to pay the funeral
charges, expenses of administration, and the claims, if
any, against the estate; and it shall be the duty of the
court or judge to grant such order, and to direct and
prescribe therein the terms of sale upon which such
property shall be sold, whether for cash or on credit, or
both.
§ 1143. [1111.] Thereafter the executor or administrator
shall sell such personal property from time to time
for the purposes speciﬁed in the last section, and as often
and as much thereof as may be necessary. Such sale
shall be conducted in the same manner as a sale of per-
sonal property on execution, unless otherwise provided
in this title.
§ 1144. [1112.] If, upon the application for an order
of sale, or upon a subsequent application for that pur
pose, it appears to the court or judge that it would be
for the interest of the estate, it may order that the execu-
tor or administrator may sell all the personal property
of the estate or any article thereof at private sale. If
any articles of personal property have been specially be
queathed, they are to be exempt from the operation of
the order of sale so long as any property of the estate
not specially devised or bequeathed remains unsold or
appropriated to the purposes speciﬁed in section 1142
[1110].
§ 1145. [1113.] When the proceeds of the sale of personal
property have been exhausted, and the charges, ex
penses, and claims speciﬁed in section 1142 [1110] have
not all been satisﬁed, the executor or administrator shall
sell the real property of the estate, or so much thereof as
may be necessary for that purpose. If any of such real
property have been specially devised, it shall be exempt
from the operation of the order of sale in the same man
ner as personal property specially bequeathed.

§ 1146. [1114.] The petition for the order of sale of
real property shall state the amount of the sales of per
sonal property, the charges, expenses, and claims still
unsatisﬁed, so far as the same can be ascertained, a de
scription of the real propertyof the estate, the condition
and probable value of the different portions or lots
thereof, the amount and nature of any liens thereon,
the names, ages, and residence of the devisees, if any,
and of the heirs of the deceased, so far as known.
§ 1147. [1115.] Upon the ﬁling of the petition a cita
tion shall issue to the devisees and heirs therein men
tioned, and to all others unknown, if any such there be,
to appear at a term of court therein mentioned, not less
than ten days after the service of such citation, to show
cause, if any exist, why an order of sale should not be
made as in the petition prayed for.
§ 1148. [1116.] Upon an heir or devisee known and
resident within this state such citation shall be served
and returned as a summons, and upon an heir or devisee
unknown or non-resident it may be served by publica
tion, not less than four weeks, or for such further time
as the court or judge may prescribe. When service of
the citation is made by publication, there shall be pub
lished with it a brief description of the property de
“scribed in the petition.
§ 1149. [1117.] If, upon the hearing, the court ﬁnd
that it is necessary that the real property, or any por
tion thereof, should be sold, it shall make the order
accordingly, and prescribe the terms thereof, whether of
cash or credit, or both; and if the court ﬁnd that such
property cannot be divided without probable injury and
loss to the estate, it may order that it, or any speciﬁc
lot or portion thereof, shall be sold wholly, whether other
wise necessary or not.
§ 1150. [1118.] Upon the order being made, the exe
cutor or administrator shall sell the property therein
speciﬁed, upon the terms therein directed, and in the
manner herein otherwise provided. Such sale shall be
made in the same manner as like property is sold on
execution; provided, however, that the judge may, if
thought best, order said property to be sold on the
premises. When the sale is upon credit, the executor or
administrator shall take the note of the purchaser for
the purchase-money, with a mortgage upon the property
to secure the payment thereof.

§ 1151. [1119.] At the term of court next following
the sale of real property, the executor or administrator
shall make a return of his proceedings concerning such
sale. At such term, any of the persons cited to appear
on the application for the order of sale may ﬁle his ob
jections to the conﬁrmation of such sale.
§1152. [1120.] Upon the hearing, the court shall
conﬁrm the sale, and decree that the executor or admin
istrator make a conveyance to the purchaser, unless it
appear that there were irregularities in the sale, or that
the sum bidden for the property is disproportionate to
the value thereof, and that a sum exceeding such bid at
least ten per centum, exclusive of the expenses of a new
sale, may be obtained therefor, in either of which cases
the court shall make an order vacating the sale, and
directing that the property be resold; and upon such
second sale, the property or any speciﬁc portion or lot
thereof ordered to be resold shall be sold as if no pre
vious sale had taken place. In case no objections are
made to the conﬁrmation of the sale as provided in sec
tion 1151 [1119], the court shall nevertheless examine
the proceedings concerning such sale, and if it appear
proper, may make the order of resale provided for in this
section, in the same manner and with like effect as if ob
jections had been ﬁled thereto.
§ 1153. [1121.] A conveyance executed by an execu-
tor or administrator shall set forth the date of the order
directing the rate [sale], and the book, number thereof,
and page containing the same, and the date of the order
conﬁrming the sale and directing the conveyance, and
the book, number thereof, and page containing the same,
and the title of the court making such orders, and shall
operate to convey all the estate, right, and interest of the
testator or intestate in the premises at the time of his
death.
Laws of 1882, p. 55.
§ 1154. [1122.] When a testator shall have specially
bequeathed any speciﬁc article of personal property, or
given any legacy by will, and there shall not be suﬁicient
personal property, besides such speciﬁc article or the
value of such legacy, to pay the funeral charges, expenses
of administration, and claims against the estate, the
executor or administrator shall obtain an order to sell
the real property sufﬁcient to make up the deﬁciency, in_
the manner hereinbefore provided.
§ 1155. [1123.] When the testator shall make provis
ion in his will for the sale or disposition of all or any
particular portion of his estate, for the payment of
funeral charges, expenses of administration, or of claims
against the estate, the property so appropriated may be
sold or disposed of as directed, by the executor or admin
istrator with the will annexed, without an order of the
court therefor; but he shall be bound to conduct the sale
and make a return thereof in all respects as if it were
made by order of the court, unless there are special direc
tions in the will concerning the manner and terms of
sale, in which case he shall be governed by such direc
tions in such respects.

§ 1156. [1124.] If the provision made by the will, or
the property thereby appropriated, be insuﬁcient for the
purpose intended, the remaining portion of the estate
may be sold for that purpose, according to the provisions
of this title.
§ 1157. [1125.] The property, real and personal, given
by the will to any devisee or legatee, is liablefor the pay-
ment of the funeral charges, expenses of administration,
. . .
and of claims agamst the estate, and If there be more
than one such devisee or legatee, then in proportion to
the value or amount of the several devises or legacies;
except that speciﬁc devises and legacies shall be exempt
from such liability, if such appear to have been the in
tention of the testator, and there be other sufﬁcient prop-\
erty to satisfy such charges, expenses, and claims.
§ 1158. [1126.] If the deceased was, at the time of
his death, a party to a contract for the purchase of real
property, his interest in such real property by virtue of
such contract may be sold in the same manner as if such
contract had been executed in the lifetime of the de
ceased, by a conveyance to him of such property accord
ing to the legal effect and terms of such contract.
§ 1159. [1127.] If there be any payments due, or to
become due, on such contract to the vendor of the de-
ceased, the sale is made subject thereto, and before the
same can be conﬁrmed, or the contract assigned to the
purchaser, such purchaser shall execute an undertaking
_ _ _ .
with one or more sufﬁc1ent sureties, 1n an amount not
less than double the value of all the payments then due,
or to become due, for the beneﬁt of whom it may concern,
to be void upon the condition that such purchaser will
make all such payments according to the terms of such
contract, and indemnify the executor or administrator,
or others whom it may concern, against all damages, costs,
and expenses, by reason of any covenant or agreement
contained in such contract.
§ 1160. [1128.] The order of conﬁrmation of such
sale shall direct the executor or administrator to make
an assignment of such contract to the purchaser, which
assignment shall vest in the purchaser, his heirs and as-
signs, all the estate, right, and interest of the deceased
at the time of his death in such real property, and give
to the purchaser the same rights and remedies against
the vendor thereof as the deceased would have had or
been entitled to if living.
§ 1161. [1129.] If the deceased left any property, real
or personal, under mortgage, and did not devise or pro
vide for the redemption of the same by will, the court or
judge thereof, upon the application of the executor or
administrator, or the application of an heir or creditor,
or other person interested in the estate, may order the
executor or administrator to redeem such property out 01
the proceeds of the other personal property, if it appear
that such redemption would be for the interest of the es
tate, and not prejudicial to creditors.
§1162. [113().] If, upon such application, such re
demption be deemed not proper, or inexpedient, the court
shall order such property to be sold, in like manner and
with like effect as is provided in other cases of the sale
of real property by this title; and the conveyance to the
purchaser shall operate to convey to him all the estate,
right, and interest which the deceased would have had
in the property had not the same been mortgaged by him.
§ 1163. [1131.] Ten days before making an order for
the application of the proceeds of such sale, the mortga
gee, or other person to whom the debt which is secured
by such mortgage is payable, shall be cited to appear and
show the amount of his debt, and make his objections, if
any, to the report of the expenses of the proceeding and
sale as claimed by the executor or administrator, and
thereupon the court shall order that the proceeds of the
sale be ﬁrst applied to the payment of the proper ex
penses of the proceeding and sale, and secondly, to the
satisfaction of such debt, and the residue, if any, in due
course of administration.

§ 1164. [1132.] Sections 1161 [1129], 1162 [1130],
and 1163 [1131] shall not be construed to include a mort~
gage which has been foreclosed, or upon which a suit has
been commenced for foreclosure, before the application
for theorder of redemption or sale is made,'nor to any
other hen 8.1‘1$1I1g upon Judgment or decree given against
the deceased in his lifetime.
§ 1165. [1133.] If the debt secured by the mortgage
mentioned in section 1161 [1129] be not due at the time
of the making of the order for redemption or application
of the proceeds of sale, the party to whom it is payable
shall be entitled to receive in satisfaction thereof such
sum as may be ascertained to be equal to the present
value thereof.
§ 1166. [1134.] The order of conﬁrmation of sale in
this title mentioned is conclusive as to the regularity of
the sale, and no further. All purchasers of the property
- .
of the estate by an executor or administrator, however
made, whether directly orindirectly, are prohibited, and
if made are void.
§ 1167. [1135.] Whenever the assets of the estate are
insufficient to satisfy the funeral charges, expenses of administration,
and the claims against the estate, and the
deceased shall in his lifetime have made or suffered
any conveyance, transfer, or sale of any property, real or
personal, or any right or interest therein, with intent to
delay, hinder, or defraud creditors, or when such con
veyanee, transfer, or sale has been so made or suffered
that the same is void in law as against creditors, or when
the deceased in his lifetime has suffered, consented, or
procured any judgment or decree to be given against
him with such intent or in such manner as to be like
wise void, it is the duty of such executor or administra
tor to make application by petition to the county court
or judge thereof for leave to commence and prosecute
to ﬁnal judgment or decree the necessary and proper
actions, suits, or proceedings to have such conveyance,
transfer, sale, judgment, or decree declared void, and the
property affected thereby discharged from the effect
thereof.
§1168. [1136.] If upon the application it appear to
such court or judge that the assets are msuﬁicient for
the purposes speciﬁed in the last section, and that it is
probable that the conveyance, transfer, judgment, or
decree was made, suffered, consented to, or procured
with the intent or in the manner speciﬁed in the last
section, it shall make the order directing the proceedings
to be commenced and prosecuted as to any or all of the
matters alleged in the petition and necessary to supply
the deﬁciency in the assets.
§ 1169. [1137.] The property recovered by means of
any proceeding in pursuance of the last two sections is
. .
to be sold and appropriated to supply the deﬁciency men
tioned in section 1166 [1134], in the same manner as
other like property; but the right to or interest in the
surplus, if any, remains as if such proceeding had not
been allowed or commenced.

§ 1170. [1138.] An executor or administrator shall
within six months from the date of the notice of his
appointment, and every six months thereafter, until the
. . . . . .
adm1n1strat1on 1s completed and he 1s discharged from
his trust, render an account, veriﬁed by his own oath,
and ﬁle the same with the clerk, showing the amount of
money received and expended by him, from whom received
and to whom paid, with the proper voucher for
.
such payments, the amount of the claims presented
against the estate, and allowed or disallowed, and the
name of the claimants of each, and any other matter
necessary to show the conditions of the affairs thereof.
§ 1171. [1139.] An executor or administrator who
shall fail to ﬁle an account as required in the last sec-
tion, may be required by a citation, ordered by the court
or judge, to appear and do so, either upon the application
of an heir or creditor, or other person interested in the
estate, or without it. If the executor or administrator
refuse or neglect to appear when cited, or to ﬁle the ac
count as required, he may be punished for a contempt,
or by warrant of the judge be committed at once to close
custody in the jail of the county, until he consent to do
so.
§ 1172. [1140.] At the ﬁrst term of the court after
the ﬁling of the ﬁrst semi-annual account and each semi-
.
annual account thereafter, the court shall ascertam and
determine if the estate be suﬁicient to satisfy the claims
presented and allowed by the executor or administrator,
within the ﬁrst six months or any succeeding period of
six months thereafter, after the date of the notice of his
appointment, after paying the funeral charges and ex
penses of administration; and if so, it shall so order and
direct; but if the estate be insufficient for that purpose,
it shall ascertain what per centum of such claims it is
suﬁicient to satisfy, and order and direct accordingly.
§ 1173. [1141.] When the estate is fully administered,
it shall be the duty of the executor or administra-
tor to ﬁle his ﬁnal account. Such account shall be
veriﬁed by his own oath, and contain a detailed state-
ment of the amount of money received and expended by
him, from whom received and to whom paid, and refer
to the vouchers for such payments, and the amount of
money and property, if any, remaining unexpended or
appropriated. Upon the ﬁling of the ﬁnal account, the
. . .
court or judge thereof shall make an order directing
. . .
notice thereof to be given in the same manner as the
notice of an appointment of an executor or administrator,
and appoint a day at some term subsequent thereto for
the hearing of objections to such ﬁnal account and the
settlement thereof.
§ 1174. [1142.] An heir, creditor, or other person in
terested in the estate may, on or before the day appointed
_ . . .
for such hearing and settlement, ﬁle his objections there
to, or to any particular item thereof, specifying the par
ticulars of such objections; but no creditor shall be
allowed to object to such account whose claim has been
satisﬁed, as allowed by the executor or administrator, or
established by judgment or decree.
§ 1175. [1143.] Upon the hearing, the court shall
give a decree allowing or disallowing the ﬁnal account
eithef in whole or in part, as may be just and right; and
such decree in any other action, suit, or proceeding be
tween the parties interested or their representatives is
primary evidence of the correctness of the account as
thereby allowed and settled.

§ 1176. [1144.] An executor or administrator is
chargeable in his account with all the property of the
estate which may come into his possession, at the value
of the appraisement contained in the inventory, except
as in this title otherwise provided.
§ 1177. [1145.]' He shall not make proﬁt by the in
crease in value of the property of the estate, nor suffer
loss for the decrease in value or the destruction thereof,
without his fault; and if any of the property of the estate
sell for more than its appraised value, he shall account
for the excess, and if any such property sell for less than
its appraised value, he shall not be responsible for the
loss, unless occasioned by his fault. He shall not be ac
countable for the debts due the estate, if it appear that
they remain uncollected without his fault. He shall not
purchase any claim against the estate which he represents,
and if he satisﬁes any such claim for less than its nominal
value, he is only entitled to charge in his account the
sum actually paid. 7
§ 1178. [1146.] An executor or administrator shall
be allowed, in the settlement of his account, all necessary
expenses incurred in the care, management, and set—(]3£(;
tlement of the estate, including reasonable attorney fees
in any necessary litigation or matter requiring legal ad
vice or counsel. For his services he shall receive such
compensation as the law provides; but when the de
ceased, by his will, has made special provision for the
compensation of his executor, such executor is not en
titled to any other compensation for his services, unless
he shall, within ten days after his appointment, subscribe
and ﬁle with the clerk a written declaration renouncing
the compensation provided by the will.
§ 1179. [1147.] Notwithstanding the provision in
the will for the compensation of an executor, if the'estate
be insuﬂicient to satisfy the claims against it, the courtshall reduce such compensation so far as may be neces-
sary to satisfy such claims, to an amount equal to what
the executor would have been entitled if no such provis
ion had been made.

§ 1180. [1148.] The compensation provided by law
for an executor or administrator is a commission upon
the whole estate accounted for by him, as follows:—
1. For the ﬁrst thousand dollars, or any less sum, at
the rate of seven per centum thereof; -
2. For all above that sum and not exceeding two thou
sand dollars, at the rate of ﬁve per centum thereof;
3. For all above two thousand and not exceeding four
thousand dollars, at the rate of four per centum thereof;
4. For all above the last mentioned sum, at the rate of
two per centum thereof.
In all cases, such further compensation as is just and
reasonable may be allowed by the court or judge thereof,
for any extraordinary and unusual services, not ordi
narily required of an executor or administrator in the
discharge of his trust.
§ 1181. [1149.] Before the time appointed for the
hearing and- settlement of a ﬁnal account, the executor
or administrator shall ﬁle with the clerk a copy of the
notice thereof, with the proper proof of its publication
as directed. An executor or administrator who shall fail
to ﬁle his ﬁnal account as provided in section 1173 [1141]
may be proceeded against in like manner and with like
effect as provided in section 1171 [1139], in case of fail
ure to ﬁle a semi-annual account.
§ 1182. [1150.] Whenever a debtor of a deceased
person is unable to pay all his debts, an executor or an
administrator, by order of the court or judge thereof,
may compound with him and give him a discharge upon
receiving a fair and just proportion of his effects; but if
such compounding is procured or induced by the false
or fraudulent representations or conduct of such debtor,
such payment shall only operate to discharge a like
amount of the debt.

§ 1183. [1151.] The charges and claims against the
estate which have been presented and allowed, or pre
sented and disallowed, but subsequently established by
judgment or decree within the ﬁrst six months after
the date of the notice of appointment of the executor or
administrator, shall be paid in the following order, and
those presented and allowed or established in like man
ner within each succeeding period of six months there
after, during the continuance of the administration, in
the same manner:—
1. Funeral charges;
2. Taxes of whatever nature due the United States;
3. Expenses of last sickness;
4. Taxes of whatever nature due the state, or any
county or other public corporation therein;
5. Debts preferred by the laws of the United States;
6. Debts which, at the death of the deceased, were a
lien upon his real property, or any right or interest
therein, according to the priority of their several liens;
7. All other claims against the estate. ' I
§ 1184. [1152.] The preference given by subdivision
6 of the last section shall only extend to the proceeds of
. . .
the property upon which the hen exists, and as to such
proceeds such debt is to be preferred to any of the classes
mentioned in such section, other than the taxes upon
such property.
§ 1185. [1153.] If such debt has been established by
judgment or decree against the deceased in his lifetime,
such judgment or decree, if the proceeds of the personal
property be not suﬁicient to satisfy it, may, in the dis-
cretion of the court or judge thereof, be either satisﬁed
from the proceeds of the sale of the property by the
executor or administrator, upon which it is a lien, or
enforced by execution against such property. Such sale
by the executor or administrator discharges the property
from the lien of the judgment or decree, but the same
attaches to the proceeds thereof, after deducting there
from the expenses of sale.
§ 1186. [1154.] Except as specially provided in the
-last three sections, if the estate be insuﬂicient to pay all
the claims and charges of any one class, payable within
any period of six months during the administration, as
provided in section 1183 [1151], each creditor of such
class shall be paid in proportion to the amount of his
claim, and not otherwise.
§ 1187. [1155.] The executor named in the will, or
if there be none, or if he do not attend to it, then the
husband, widow, or next of kin, in the order herein
named, are authorized to incur funeral charges, on ac
count of the estate, in the burial of the deceased before
administration of the estate is granted; and the burial
of the deceased may be in a manner and at a cost accord
ing to his circumstances and condition in life, but no
funeral charges, except those necessary to give the de
ceased a plain and decent burial, shall be allowed out of
the estate where the assets are not suiﬁcient to satisfy
all other claims against it, including the legacies and
devises, if there be any.
§ 1188. [1156.] The executor or administrator may
retain in his hands, in preference to any claim or charge
against the estate, the amount of his own compensation
and the necessary expenses of administration.
§1189. [1157.] A debt due and payable is not en
titled to preference over one of the same class not due,
if the latter be presented within the same period. A
debt not due, whether contingent or absolute, upon be
ing presented shall, if absolute, be satisﬁed by the pay
ment of such sum as the court or judge thereof may
prescribe by order, to be equal to its present value, and
if contingent, by the payment into court for the beneﬁt
of the creditor, subject to the contingency, of a sum to
be ascertained in like manner, equal to its present value.
§1190. [1158.] When, upon the ﬁling of a semi
annual account, an order is made determining and pre
scribing the amount of assets applicable to the claims
then presented, as provided in section 1172[1140], there
after the executor or administrator is personally liable
to each creditor included in such order for such amount.
§1191. [1159.] If all the charges and claims shall
have been satisﬁed upon the ﬁrst distribution of the
assets, or as soon thereafter as they may be, the court or
judge thereof shall direct the payment of legacies and
the distribution of the remaining proceeds of the per
sonal property among the heirs or other persons entitled
thereto.
§ 1192. [1160.] The real property of the deceased is
the property of those to whom it descends by law or is
devised by will, subject to the possession of the executor
or administrator, and to be applied to the satisfaction of
claims against the estate, as by this chapter provided;
but upon the settlement of the estate, and the termina
tion of the administration thereof, so much of such real
property as remains unsold or unappropriated is dis
charged from such possession and liability without any
order or decree therefor. But if there be any surplus
of the proceeds of the sale of such real property, or any
part thereof, the court or judge thereof shall order and
direct a distribution of such surplus among those who
would have been entitled to such land if the same had‘
not been sold.

§ 1193. [1161.] At any time after the ﬁling of theg§1
ﬁrst semi-annual account, any heir, devisee, or legatee
may apply to the court, by petition, for an order that he
_ o
have the possession and rents and proﬁts thereof of the
portion of the real property to which he may be entitled,
and that payment be made to him of his legacy or dis
tributive share of the personal property of such estate, as
the case may be.
§ 1194. [1162.] Notice of the application shall be
given to the executor or administrator ten days before
the term at which it is made. If upon the hearing it
appear that the estate is but little in debt, the court in
its discretion may grant the petition or some part thereof,
upon the condition that such applicant ﬁle with the clerk,
within a time in the order speciﬁed, an undertaking,
with one or more sufﬁcient sureties, for the beneﬁt of
whom it may concern, in a sum double the value of such
real property, legacy, or distributive share, to be void
upon the condition that such heir, legatee, or devisee will
pay, when required, his proportion towards satisfying
any claim against the estate.
§1195. [1163.] The sureties in such undertaking
shall have the same qualiﬁcations as sureties in bail
upon arrest, and shall justify before the court or judge
thereof in like manner. The costs of the proceeding
shall be paid by the applicant.
§ 1196. [1164.] If, after the giving of such under
taking, it shall become necessary to satisfy any claim
against the estate, to require the payment of all or any
part of the sum therein speciﬁed, it shall be the duty of
the executor or administrator to apply by petition to the
court for a decree to that effect. Notice of the applica
tion shall be given to the party ﬁling the undertaking,
ten days before the term at which the application is
made.
§1197. [1165.] If, upon the hearing, it appear
necessary and proper that such payment should be
made, the court shall decree accordingly, specifying
therein the amount to be paid, and within what time;
and if the amount be not paid within the time speciﬁed,
the decree may be enforced against such party and the
sureties in the undertaking, by execution, in the same
manner as a decree in the circuit court.
§ 1198. [1166.] All process authorized by this code,
to be issued by any court or officer thereof, shall run in
the name of the state of Oregon, and be signed by the
oﬁicer issuing the same; and if such process be issued by
a clerk of a court, he shall aﬂix thereto his seal of oﬁce.
In all actions, suits, or proceedings by or against the
state, it is to be styled the state of Oregon.

§ 1199. [1167.] This act shall take effect from and
after a day to be appointed by the governor, when the
same is printed and distributed, and notice thereof shall
be given by the governor, by proclamation, published in
three weekly newspapers in this state, for three weeks
before the day appointed for the same to take effect.


