zittornqy and Counsellor at Law.
IT IS ORDERED, that no person
shall be hereafter admitted to practise as
an Attorney or Counsellor in this court,
unless he hath served a regular Clerkship
within this State to some practising Attor
ney, or Gentleman of the Law, of -known
abilities, for the term of four years, and
afterwards practised as an Attorney in
some of the County Courts of common
for the term of one year; or served
** r ;t'sﬁ:r<t<t‘‘¢l
such Clerkship for the term of three years,
and practised two years: nor then, un
less it be certiﬁed by two Attornies or
Counsellors of the court, by them to be
appointed for that purpose, that, on a full
and impartial examination, such person
appears to be well grounded in the prin
ciples of the law, and acquainted with
the practice.
“PROVIDED always, that in the case of
a person applying to be admitted, who shall
appear to have studied the law with assi
iduity, under the direction of some practis
ing Attorney, or Gentleman of the Law,
of this State, for the term of two years
after his arrival at the age of twenty one
years, and afterwards practised in some or
one of the county courts of common pleas
two years, and to be a person of integrity,
and certiﬁed in manner aforesaid to be Well
qualiﬁed, he may be admitted.
SEC. 2. IT is further ordered, that no person,
now residing and inhabiting within any
other of the United States of America,
shall be admitted an Attorney or Counsel
lor at law of this court, who has not taken
the oath or afﬁrmation of allegiance and.
ﬁdelity to some one of the said States,
within the time and in the manner pre
' scribed by the Laws of such State, and
who hath not also taken the oath or af
ﬁrmation of allegiance and ﬁdelity to this
State, and resided therein for the space of
two years next preceding hisuapplication
for admission; excepting Attorneys at
law residing, practising, and originally ad
mitted and sworn, in the States of New
yersey, Delaware, or Maryland. And
that no Alien or Foreigner, coming into
this State from and after the ﬁrst day of
this Term, shall be admitted to practise
as an Attorney or Counsellor within this
court, until he shall have taken the oath
or afﬁrmation of allegiance and ﬁdelity to
this Commonwealth, and have also resid
ed four years within the same next before
his application for admission.
SEC. 3. IT is ordered, that, from and after
the last day of this Term, no Attorney
of this, or any other Court, or Sherif¥’s
oflicer, bailiﬁ, or other person concerned.
in the execution of process, shall be per
mitted or suffered to become special Bail
in any action or suit depending in this
court, unless he shall obtain the leave of
the sour
SEC. 4. No person, who has not been attend
ing his employment in court as an At
torney for the space of one year, unless
hindered by sickness, shall be allowed his
privilege of an Attorney.
ﬂttacbment in Rem.
SEC. 5. IT is ordered, that, in the case of
common Informers, a stipulation or re
cognizance shall be entered into at the
time of suing out the Attachment; and.
that claimants of goods, &c. seized or at
tached by virtue of any Act of Assembly,
Shall, at the time of ﬁling their claim, en
ter into a stipulation or recognizance to
secure the payment of all costs and dam
ages, that may accrue by reason of the
claim, upon a condemnation. But all
persons, who make a seizure by virtue of
their oﬂice, shall be excused from enter
ing into any suchstipulation, or recogni
zance.
SEC. 6. No Bail is to be tendered or put in
upon any babeas corpur, until the habea:
corpur, and causes for which bail is to be
put in, be returned, to the end it may
appear what the causes are, for which the
defendant is detained, and bail be duly
taken, and the babeas corpus and bail duly
ﬁled.
SEC. 7. UPON the return of a babeas corpus,
the plaintiff may have a Rule in Term.
time for a proeedendo, unless good bail be
put in within six Weeks from the ﬁrst day
of the Term to which the same is return
able, and, after the last day of the said
six weeks, may take out the proeedenda
accordingly.
SEC. 8. COMMISSIONERS of Bail shall takea re
cognizance or bail-piece fairly drawn and
‘ engrossed on parchment or paper, when
applied to within the counties wherein
they 'respectively reside, in the following
or like form, as the case shall be, to
.wit,
Covmrr ss.
A. B. is delivered on bail
upon a cepi corpus (or upon
an babeas corpus) to C. D. of
the township of Eastown, in
the county of Cbester, Teo
man, and E. F. of Marl
borough township, in the same
county, Blackmzit/.1.
K. Attor- At the suit of G! H.
ney for the
defendant.
Taken and acknowledged
the 12th day of April,
1787, de bene esse; be
fore me
L. M. Commissioner
of Bail for said county.
Am) at the taking the recognizance
shall express the condition to the Bail as
follows,
“ You do jointly and severally under
“ take, that if the defendant A. B. shall
“ be condemned in this action at the suit
“ of the plaintiff G. H. he shall satisfy
“ the costs and condemnation, or render
“ himself into the custody of the Sheriff
“ of the county of Chester, or you will pay
“ the costs and condemnation for him.”
IF on a writ of error, as follows,
“ You severally acknowledge to owe
“(the plaintiff in the action below) the
“ sum of (double the sum recovered
“ upon condition that A. B. prosecute his
“ writ of error with effect; and if judg
“ ment be aﬂirmed, shall satisfy and pay
“ the debt, damages and costs recovered,
“ together with such costs as shall be a
“ warded, by occasion of the delay of
“ execution, or else you will do it for
“ him.
AND all recognizances, taken by any
Commissioner within the distance of one
hundred miles from the city of Philadel
phia, shall be transmitted to the oﬂice of
the Prothonotary of this court, and be de
livered to, and forthwith ﬁled with the.
proper oﬂicer, within thirty days after
the taking thereof; and all recognizanccs,
iitaken by any Commissioner above the
distance of one hundred miles from the
said city of Philadelphia, shall be trans
mitted within sixty days after the taking
thereof, and ﬁled with the Prothonotary ;
or otherwise it shall be as no bail, and the
plaintiff shall be at liberty to proceed on
the Sheriff's Bail-bond, as if no such bail
were ever put in. And the defendant, in
case he be admissible to plead to the orig
inal action, shall not be suffered' so to do,
unless he ﬁrst pay the full costs to the
plaintiff for the prosecution on the Bail
bond ; and plead as of the time when the
Bail should have been duly entered.
io. EVERY Commissioner shall have a
book kept purposely for entering ex
actly the names of the defendants and
their Bail, and of the Plaintiffs, as it is in
the respective Bail-pieces, and the time of
the taking thereof, and the name of him
by whom such Bail shall be transmitted.
1 1. AND it is further ruled, that the Plain
tiﬂ"s Attorney shall be at liberty to repair
to the Commissioner’s Book for the names
of the Bail, to the end that he may en
quire of the suﬂiciency of them, and if
they are found insuilicient, he may except
against them, within twenty days after the
recognizance or Bail-piece is transmitted,
and notice to the Plaintiff or his Attorney,
of the taking thereof: And in that case
the defendant must either put in better
bail, or the cognizors of such bail must
justify themselves in open court, either by
affidavit taken before such Commissioner
that took the said bail, or by oath made
in court, or before one of the Judges of
the Court.
I2.’ A1.so, that if special bail put in by
the defendant, or Bail by a Plaintiff in a
writ of error, be excepted to, the party
shall perfect his bail within ten days after
such exception taken; in default whereof
the Plaintiff in the ﬁrst case may proceed
upon the bail bond, _and in the latter the
Prothonotary of this Court shall nonpros
such writ of error.
SEC. 13. IT is further ordered, that, if the
same bail shall be put in above as were
taken by the Sheriﬁ‘, nevertheless the
Plaintiff may except against such bail.
SEC. 14. SPECIAL Bail may be required in all
causes removed by habeas corpus out of
inferior courts, except the defendant be
an executor or administrator, or the ac
tion be for words or small trespasses.
SEC. 15. WHEN exception is taken to Bail, it
must be entered with the Prothonotary,
or on the Bail-piece, and also notice in
writing given thereof to the Defendant,
or his Attorney.
Certiorari.
SEC. 16. RULED, that all writs of Certiorari and
Habeas Corpus shall be returned within the
ﬁrst four days of the term, or upon motion
a procedendo or attachment may issue, and"
until they shall be returned no other rule
shall be taken in the cause.
SEC. 17. WHEN any Plaintiﬁ‘ removes his cause
into this court from the common pleas by
Certiorari, notice shall be given to the de
fendant or his Attorney of such writ; and
if the defendant will not appear gratis per
sonally, or by Attorney in this court, with
in the ﬁrst four days of the Term to which
the writ is returnable, then on aﬂidavit of
such notice, a capias may issue against the
defendant, returnable on the eighth day af
terwards, or on the ﬁrst day of the next
Term, at the election of the Plaintiff, to
compel an appearance, and special Bail,
where, by law it may be required.
SEC. 18. All causes, removed into this court
by'writs of Certiorari, shall be brought
up in the condition or situation in which
they shall be in the inferior court at the
time of the delivery of the writs, and that
the proceedings here begin upon the last
rule in the cause in the court below.
SEC. 19. THAT, on the return of any writ of
Certiorari issued out of this court to any
of the county courts of (luarter Sessions
of the peace and gaol delivery, for the re
moval of any orders, judgments or pro
ceedings, relating to the laying out or
conﬁrming any public or private road,
this court will not suffer the merits of the
case to be entered into, nor reverse the
orders of such court, unless for some ap
parent irregularity in the record; or that
the court below have exceeded their juris
diction, or erred in their judgments in
point of law; or due proof be made of
some corruption or partiality in thetioes of the said court; or of fraud or
undue practice in the viewers or parties,
which the party complaining of such fraud
or undue practice had not neglected to
make appear to the court below.
SEC. 20. Tnxr, on a Cerfiorari directed to any
justice of the peace, the said Justice, or,
in case of his death, his executor or ad
ministrator, shall return the cause of action
'which was before him, together with all
his proceedings, in order that the court
may judge of his jurisdiction, as well as
the legality and regularity of his process
and decision.
SEC. 21. N0 such Certiorari shall be a supersede
as, unless the party, who sues it, gives
good bail for the amount of the demand
and costs, adjudged by the Justice of the
peace, to the use of the opposite party,
that the same shall be prosecuted with ef.
feet; 'nor even then, where execution hath
been executed, or the goods and chattels
levied upon.
SEC. 22. IT is ordered, that the Counsel for the
Plaintiff and Defendant do furnish two
Paper-books, or States of the points in
controversy, for the use of the Judges of
this court, on all Law arguments arising
on demurrers, reserved points, special ver
dicts, or cases stated for the opinion of
the court ; that one of them be delivered
to the Chief Justice and senior puisne
Judge by the Plaintiff, and the other to'
the two other ]udges_by the Defendant,
at least two days before the day appointed
for the argument; and that the Prothon
otary do charge in the bill of costs what
the court shall think reasonable for the
same. If either party neglects to deliver,
as before directed, such party will not be
heard when the cause comes on to be ar
gued .
SEC. 23. ALL law arguments shall be had on the
Mondays and Saturdays of each’ week,
which shall be set apart.by the Judges for
that purpose as often as there shall be oc
casion.
SEC. 24. IN arguing of points reserved, the Plain
ti{f’s Counsel shall begin the argument.
Q5; IT- is ordered, that, when a cause is
removed by habeas corpus, all the pro
ceedings in this court shall be do now, and
bail must be put in do now, the person
and the cause, and not the pleadings,
&c. being thereby removed.
SEC. 26. No habear corpus shall be brought to
remove a cause, after interlocutory judg
ment in the inferior Court.
yury.
SEC. 27. IT is ordered, that no trial be put off
on account of a view not being had by
six ofthe ﬁrst twelve of the jury, as they
stand in the panel,- provided any six of
them have viewed, and some of them do
appear to try the cause, and that such
of them, who have viewed and do ap
pear, shall be ﬁrst sworn or aﬁirmed on
the trial; and that the form of the venire
facias’s and distringas’s be altered accord
ingly.
SEC. 28. THAT, on all -uenire: or other process
for summoning juries, issued out of this
I
Court, the sheriff, to whom the same
shall be direﬁted, do cause each juror to
be served with personal notice to attend;
that such service be- at least ten days be
fore the day of appearance speciﬁed in
such writs respectively; and that it be
particularly mentioned in the notice, that
the juror is summoned to serve on the
general jury, or a special jury, (naming
the Plantiff and Defendant) as the case
'may be. '
SEC. 29. THAT if it shall happen, that the same
juror shall be summoned on dgfkrent
'venires, &c. on the same day, the Sheriff i
in that case do serve the said juror with
distinct notices, inserting the names of
the parties to the suits in the margin of
the notice, in the same manner as they
are indorsed on the venires.
SEC. 30. AND wnsnaas the late act for the bet
ter regulation of juries directs, that ‘on
due proof, by oath or affirmation of the
Sheriff or other credible person, that such
person, as may make default, hath been
lawfully summoned, the court shall pro
c'eed to ﬁne such defaulter; it is order
ed, that the Sheriff do cause the ofﬁcer,
who shall have served the process, to
attend the court on the day whereon
the venire is returnable, in order that
the aforesaid proof. may be had, when
ever it fhall be deemed requisite.
3 1 . IT is further ordered, that the person who
shall summon any jury upon any process
out of this Court, {hall make a minute
or memorandum, on the panel, of the
day of the month and year of summon
ing each juror, and {hall subscribe the
-same, in order that due proof may be
had thereof agreeably to the preceding
rules.
yudgment.
SEC. 32. It is ordered, that no motion shall be
made for a new trial, after a motion in ar
rest of judgment,
SEC. 33. No motion in arrest of judgment will
be received on the last day of a Term,
unless notice of the motion be previous
ly given to the opposite party or his
Attorney.
Q.
SEC. 34. ALL motions in arrest of judgment’,
or for a new trial, in causes tried at
Nisi Prim, shall be made within the ﬁrst
four days of the next succeeding Term;
but no such motion shall even thenbe
received or admitted, unless notice in_
writing of such intended motion hath ﬁrst
been given to the adverse party, or his
Attorney, ten days at least before the
term commences.
SEC. 35. IF a \Varrant of Attorney to enter
-
judgment be above ten years old and
under twenty, the court in Term time,
or a Judge in the vacation, must be
moved for leave to enter judgment ; which
motion must be grounded on an A_ﬁida'vit'
of the due execution of the warrant, that
the money is unpaid and the party living :
But if the warrant be above twenty years
old, there mus-t be a Rule to shew cause,
and served on the party, if to be found
within the State.
P/ea.
SEC. 36.: IT is ordered _that no dilatory- plea
shall be received, unless the party offer»
ing such plea does by aﬂidavit prove the
truth thereof, or shew some probable
matter to the court, to induce them to
believe that the fact of -such dilatory plea
is true.
SEC. 37. IT having been the common practice
to plead the general issue, with leave to
give the special matter in evidence at the
trial of the cause ; in order for the future
that neither party may be taken by sur
prize, and that a fair opportunity may be
afforded to encounter the evidence intend
ed to be offered under such rules, the
party who proposes to take the beneﬁt of
it, shall at least ten days before the trial
give notice in writing to the other, what
are the special facts, or matters, on which
he will rely, and which he intends to urge
in support of his action, or by way of de-_
fence; otherwise he shall give no other
evidence than what is by law strictly ad
missible on a general issue plea, or what
has been received on such plea by solemn
and settled adjudications in this court..
SEC. 38. WHEN there have been mutual deal
ings between a plaintiff and defendant, and
the defendant intends on the general issue
to defalk his account against the plaintif¥’s
demand, or any part of it, he shall give
notice thereof in writing at least ten days
before the trial, and at the same time
furnish him with a copy of the account
which he intends to give in evidence and
rely on, and if the plaintiff ’s action is not
founded on a specialty or writing, he in
like manner shall be obliged on the de
fendant’s request at the same time, or on
a reasonable notice, to give him a copy
of his account and demand, so that there
shall be an exchange of copies at the same
time, otherwise the defendant {hall not
be compelled to a trial by the plaintiff or
vice-~versa.
SEC. 39. WHEREAS it has been adjudged in
the Supreme court, after solemn argument,
that on a plea of payment to a bond or
specialty, the defendant may on the trial in
avoidance of the deed give in evidence, that
it was’given without any,or a good consider
ation, or obtained by fraud, or by a'sugges
tion of a falsehood or suppression of the
truth, for the future it is ruled, that in all
such cases the defendent shall give the
plaintiff at least thirty days notice in writ
ing before the trial of the matter intended
to be objected in avoidance of the same,
or else he shall be precluded therefrom.
SEC. 40. To settle in future all disputes respect.-I  
ing the bringing of money into court in
causes depending in the Supreme court,
it is ruled, that the same practice shall pre
vail in all such cases as tbs Statute of I/so
fourt/1 and ﬁﬁiJ-'9’ Ann, c/mp. 16. pre
scribes, according to the usage, practice
and construction under it, in the court of
King’s Bench at I/Vexmzimter at the time of
the late Revolution.
SEC. 41. IF a declaration is ﬁled in or before any
term, a rule shall be made upon the de
fendant or defendants to put in a plea on
or before the ﬁrst day of the succeeding
term, and in case the same is not com
plied with, then a second rule may be
entered for a plea within eight days after,
or judgment, and if that is not complied
with, judgment may be entered on the next
day, without any application to the court.
Sb€7'fﬁ:
SEC. 42. IF any Sheriff, Under-sheriff, Deputy,
or Bailiff, shall wilfully delay the execu
tion of any procefs; or shall take or re-~
quire, any undue fees the same; or shall
give notice to the» Defendant, thereby to’
frustrate the execution of any writ or pro
cess, or having levied money in execution,
shall detain the same in his hands after the
return of the writ, the oflicer so offending
shall be liable to an attachment, informa
tion, commitment, or ﬁne, as the case may
require.
SEC. 43. EVERY Sheriff, Under-sheriff, Deputy
or Bailiff, shall upon reasonable notice
given to him, deliver a true Copy of
the inventory of any goods, chattels or
effects taken by him upon a fa, elegit,
or attachnzent, to the person requiring the
same, he paying for such copy not ex
ceeding one penny for every twelve words.
Trial.
SEC. 44. IT is ordered, that when a cause hath
been at issue in this court for the space of
one year, a Term’s notice of trial shall
be given.
SEC. 45. ALL motions for new tfials, and rea
sons in arrest of judgment, in causes tried
at Bar, shall be made and offered within
four days after the verdict, _unless in
causes tried within the last four days of
the Term, and in that case they must be
made before the Term ends.
SEC. 46. ALL causes shall be tried in the order
as they stand on the Issue Docket, and
the ﬁrst shall be tried on the ﬁrst day of
the Term, the next shall be 'tried ﬁrst on
the second day, the third the ﬁrst upon
the third day, and so on until the end of
the Term; and after one cause shall be
thus assigned for trial ﬁrst on the several
days, the next causes in order shall be
set down for trial in the second place, one
for each day, and the other causes at
issue in the like manner: Such causes as
shall be thus down, and cannot be tried
for want of time upon the day allotted for
them, must be continued over to the suc
ceeding Term, unless they can in the course
of the Term be brought on at another.
day, and that by consent of both par-;
ties.
SEC. 47. NorIcrz of 'trial shall be given in writ
ing to the Defendant, or to his Attorney,
or left at their houses or usual places of
abode, at least fourteen days before the
day of such intended trial, if the Defen
dant resides out of the county, or above
forty miles from the place where such
trial is expected; and at least ten days if
he resides within the county, or within
forty miles of such place of trial either in
Bank or at Nisi Prius : And in case the
Defendant or his Attorney is unknown,
or cannot be found, then such notice shall
be served upon the Defendant’s Bail, if
known, or to be found; and if not, then
it shall be stuck up in the Prothonotary’s
oﬂice fourteen days at the least before such
intended trial, and there remain open to
public inspection for that space of time.
The expences attending such notices shall
be allowed to the Attorney, in the taxing
of the Bill of costs.
W it/rem.
SEC. 48. NOTWITHSTANDING a rule of the
court hath been obtained for taking the
depositions of witnesses, and that they
shall be read in evidence at the trial of the
cause, in case of the death, absence out
of the State, or other legal inability of
such witnesses to attend, yet it is required
that the~party offering such a deposition
in evidence shall satisfy the court, that the
witness, if resident within' this State, and
within forty miles of the place of trial,
was duly subp¢eme’d, or could not be found
after reasonable pains taken for that pur
pose otherwise the same may not be admit
ted.
SEC. 49._ WHERE a commission or commissions
shall be taken out, for the examination of
witnesses residing out of the jurisdiction
of this court, the expences of executing
such commission shall be allowed in the
Bill of costs, provided it shall appear to
the court, that the persons examined were
material witnessess; but no greater sum
than ﬁve Pounds will be allowed in any
case, for the execution of any one com
mission.
3 Bail on Foreign /1z‘z‘acZ>menz‘.i.
SEC. 50. IN cases of foreign attachments, no spe
cial bail shall be taken in order to dissolve
the attachment, without notice ﬁrst given
to the plaintiff, or his attorney, of the
time and place of taking such bail, that
he may have an opportunity of excepting‘
to the sufficiency thereof.
W1LL"' A. ATLEE. T1-tot. M‘K.EAN.
G120. BRYAN. JACOB Rusn.
SEC. 51. 7 Oct. 1788. BY order of the Court,
The Prothonotary is to- receive for all sums
of 'money paid into Court, from the party
-paying in the same, at the rate of one per
Cent. for all sums of money not exceeding
.one hundred pounds, and at the rate of ten
shillings in the hundred pounds for all mon
;ies exceeding that sum.
SEC. 52. 7 january r789.—I'r IS onmznzn, that
divorce causes shall be tried next in point of
order,' to causes, wherein the Common
wealth is a party, which are always to have
the precedence.
SEC. 53. 8 April 1789.—PERCURIA1vr—If the
Commonwealth is not interested in the e
vent of a suit, such cause shall not be en
titled to a priority in the trial to other actions,
although the name of the Commonwealth
may be used as a party thereto.
SEC. 54. 4 April 1789.—OP.mzru:n, that injudg
ments given by Justices of the Peace and re
moved into this Court by certiorari, if the
judgments be affirmed, executions shall
issue for the debts and costs.
SEC. 55. 15 April179r.—Tm=. Counr DIRECT
.—That in the arrangement of the list of ar
guments, apriority shall be given in favour
of oertioraris removing into this Court in
dictments: or inquisitions of forcible entry
and detainer, disputes about the possession
between landlords and tenants, certioraris to
Justices of the Peace, and other cases, that
require festinum remedium.
SEC. 56. 17 September i791.—Ir IS ORDERED—
That no aﬂidavit of defence made by any
defendant shall prevent the plaintiff from_try
ing the cause by a common jury, unless such
aﬂidavit be ﬁled atleast six 'weeks pre
vious to the day assigned for the trial
thereof.
SEC. 57. 21 january 1792. Roman, that in all
actions or suits, originally commenced in
the Supreme Court, the manner of taking
bail shall be in speciﬁed sums, accord
ing to the mode at present practised in the
Court of Common Pleas; but on remov
als of actions by Habeas Corpus from the i
Court of Common Pleas into the Supreme
Court, bail shall be taken indeﬁnitely, ac
cording to the former course of the Su
preme Court, unless application shall be
made by the Defendant to have the quan-»
hm: of bail ascertained, which quantum
may be directed by the Court, or by a
single judge out of Court, and special bail
shall be taken inthe sum thus ordered. '
SEC. 58. Eod. Die—Ru1.Eo, that the Prothonota
. ries of the Courts of Common Pleas in the
several Counties in this State, except the
Prothonotary of Philadelphia County, shall
be and are hereby appointed Commission
ers of bail in the Supreme Court for the
Counties in which they respectively reside,
and shall be entitled to receive fees for
the particular services they shall perform
as such.
SEC. 59. 1 September 1794.—I7' 1.110!’--d€1’6’(Z' the
Court, that in all-actions returnable to any
'April-Term of this Court, rules may be taken
to declare in six weeks, plead in six weeks
after declaration ﬁled, and try the issue at
the next September Term, and that a Venire
Facias issue accordingly.
‘
SEC. 60. Eod. Die. RULED, that all eertioraris di
In
‘
rected to Justices of the Peace, commanding
them to certify into this Court their judg
' ments for debts not exceeding ten pounds,
' now -depending, or which may'hereafterj be
depending longer than three terms, shall
' be struck off the docket for want of prose
cution, and marked not to be brought for
ward, unless the Court specially order to
the contrary.
SEC. 61. 1 1 September 1795. A motion was made
" by Mr. Dunlein to alter the return of an orig
inal writ from the ﬁrst to the last day of
the term, and refused by the Court.
621 26 Dee. 1796. THE Court a’ireet—that
1
causes set down for‘argument at any time
shall be placed on the list according to their
eniority on the docket ; but that actions for
I
trial by jury set down or transferred from
one period to another after the commence
ment of the term shall go to the foot of the
list.
SEC. 63. 26 Dec. 1797. THE Court direct, that
in all cases, where judgments have been en
tered without bail, and the Plaintiff will not
accept the appearance, judgment may be
taken off.
SEC. 64. Dec. Term 1797. Roman, that no special
jury shall be directed on the application of
any defendant, unless an aﬂ-idavit of defence
be ﬁled in the ofiice, agreeably to the terms
of the act of Assembly, on or before the
ﬁrst term in which the issue shall be join-
'ed; nor unless there shall be subjoined to
such aﬂidavit, a certiﬁcate from Counsel to
'the following effect, “ I do certify t/iat I
-verily belie've tbe application for a’ special
jury in this care, is not made for the'pzrrpor-e
of delay, but for' the bearer invesfigatioﬂ of
lb: merit: of I1J: cause.”
SEC. 65. * JGREEMENT signed by tbe ')1’!
tornies of tbe Supreme Court-dated 1 Itb
Sqotenzber, 1795.
IT is agreed by the Attornies practising
in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, that
in' all actions now depending, or which
hereafter may be instituted, in the same
Court, either by original process, or by
removal from any inferior Court, the de
fendant’s attorney shall confess judgment
to the plaintiff, at the third Court, with
stay of execution for sixty days from the
ﬁrst day of the term, if the cause be re
moved or originally brought to the term of
September in any year: and if brought or
removed to December term, then with stay
of 'execution for thirty days from the ﬁrst
day of the third term (September) follow
ing: And, if removed or brought to March
term, then judgment to be confessed at the
September term following, with stay of
execution for sixty days from the ﬁrst day
of the term. Unless the defendant or l
some person for him or her, shall make
aﬁidavit at or before the second term,
that “ to Z‘/J6‘ best :.2f.lu's knowledge and
belicf, there is a .'/ust deﬁnes in whole or in
part, in the same cause”—And if the de
fence is to part only, then the defendant’s
Attorney shall confess judgment to the
Plaintiff (if the Plaintiﬁ"s Attorney will ac
cept the same in full satisfaction of_his
- demand) for so much as shall be acknowl
edged to be due to the Plaintiff.
SEC. 1.—-September Term 179 3. RULED, that all
motions for new’ trials, in arrest of judg
ment, exceptions to reports of referees and
the like, at the present term, which by the
rules of this Court, ought to be made within
the ﬁrst four days of the term, may be made
at any time within the last four days there
of.
JUDGMENTS ordered' to be entered on the
verdicts at Nisi' Briur, inquisitions return
ed, reports of Referees, &c. and award
execution made nisi subject to exception at
the close of the term, and no execution to
issue in the mean time.
JUDGMENTS ordered to be entered upon
summonses, &c. where no appearances ; but
if appearances 'before the end of the next
Court of N1...' Prius for Philadelphia Coun- ’
ty, then judgments -to be taken off.
SEC. 4.. September Term, r797. ON motion, the
Court enlarge the times f0r- ﬁling aﬁidavits
of defence to within three days of the re
spective stays of execution.
SEC. 5. RECOGNIZANCE respited till next term,
' and motions ini arrest of judgment and to
set aside verdicts, &c. deferred till next
term, and to be of the same solidity as if the
: motions, Sic. had been made at this term.
SEC. 6.' 4 Sept. 1797. T112 Court order, that ac
cording to the agreement of the Attornies
ﬁled in this Court, judgment be enteredin all
actions brought to December term 1796,
with stay of execution, till the Court of
Nisi Prius, to be\_ held on the 6th Novem- _
ber, and in all actions brought to March
1797, with stay of execution to the 13th
November next, to be taken off, if aﬂidavit
of defence be ﬁled on or before the 16th
instant. This order to extend only to such
cases, where the Attornies for defendant
have signed said agreement.
SEC. 7. Onnmuzn, that in all actions, brought to
March Term last, determined during the
sitting of this Court of Nisi Prius, if an af
fidavit of defence was made, on or before
September Term last, judgment shall be of
next December Term; but if aﬁidavit of
defence was made subsequent to said Sep
tember term, the judgment shall be entered
of September term last, but no execution to
issue till after the ﬁrst day of next term.
This rule not to extend to any express a
greement of the parties to the contrary.
SEC. 8. Tm: Court order and direct, that such of
the Jurors as are absent this Term, shall be
put on the special jury list, next term, and
upon every succeeding special jury list, until
they attend.
I. NO person shall be admitted to prac-'
tise as attorney, or counsellor at law,
unless he shall have served a regular clerk
ship, within the state, to some practising
attorney, or gentleman of known abilities,
for the term of three years ; or hath stud
ied the law with assiduity, under the direc
tion of some practising attorney, or gentle
man of the law, in this state, for the
term of two years, after his arrival at the
age of twenty one years; or hath served
such clerkship, or studied the law,
' partly in one of the neighbouring States of i
New-_-7er.rey, Delaware or Maryland, and
partly in this state, (the last year of which
service or study shall have been in this
state) ; and unless it be so certiﬁed by the
gentleman under whom he may have stud
ied, and also, that he is a person of in
tegrity and good behaviour. No person
shall be admitted in any other court, than
that- of the county in which he hath _stud- .
ied, unless he hath been before admitted
in the Court of that County, or can shew a
satisfactory reason for such non-admission.
And no citizen or inhabitant of any other
state shall be admitted, until he shall have
resided in this state for two years next pre
ceding his application for admission. Nor
shall any alien or foreigner be admitted until
he shall have taken the oath of ﬁdelityto this
state, and resided therein four years, next
before his application for admission. When
application shall be made for the admission
of any person, qualiﬁed as aforesaid, not be
fore admitted in any court within the State,
the Court shall appoint three gentlemen of
the law to examine him in the fullest man
ner, in the presence of the President, or any
judge; and, if it be unanimously certiﬁed,
by the gentlemen so appointed, that he is,
well qualiﬁed to practise, he may be admit
ted. But notwithstanding these regula
tions, attornies at law, residing, practising,
and originally admitted, in one of the neigh
bouring states aforesaid, of good charac
ter and known abilities, may be admitted
at the discretion of the Court.
SEC. 2. IT IS oanennn, That no attorney ofthis;
or any other Court,' or sheriff’s oﬂicer,
bailiff, or other person concerned in the
execution of process, shall be permitted,
or suffered to become special bail in any
action or suit depending in this court,
unless he shall obtain the leave of the
Court.
Security ﬁr Costs.
SEC. 3. IN cases where the Plaéntiﬁ resides out
of the state, in qui tam actions, in suits on
administration and oﬂiee bonds, the defen
dant, on motion and qﬁda'vi: of a just
defence against the whole demand, may
have a= rule, that the Plaintifl give secur
ity for costs at the next term: and for
want of such security, the Court, on mo
tion, may order judgment of nonsuit to
be entered.
Bail.
SEC. 4. IN all cases where a positive oath, of a
real subsisting debt, shall be made by the
plaintiff, or by a third person, whose
knowledge and situation shall enable him
to make such positive ajidawit ; it shall
be so far conclusive, that no counter 41$
da-vit shall be admitted; but the judge
shall, at his discretion, ask such further
questions, of the person making the qﬂzl
davit, as shall be necessary to satisfy his
conscience, as well to thecause of action,
as to the quantum of the bail.
SEC. 5. WHERE the qﬁidavit is not positive, but
yet suﬂicicnt to convince the judge that
there is good cause of action; especi
ally where it is founded on a bond, note,
letters, or other papers signed by the de
fendant, the judge may, at his discre
tion, hold the defendant to bail. And,
in cases where satisfaction cannot otherwise
be had, counter qﬂidavits may be admitted ;
so, nevertheless, that the merits of the
cause be not any further enquired into,
than shall appear absolutely necessary to
decide the question of bail.
THE actions, where bail is of course,
or wherein discretionary, shall be regula
ted by the books of practice.
. WHERE the plaintiff himself is not pres
ent and the evidence of the debt is brought
from a foreign country, founded on any
bonds, notes, bills of exchange, or other
papers signed by the defendant himself c;
if it appear, that due proof hath been
made of the execution, or acknowledgment
or signature before a lawful magistrate, or
’ other public oﬂicer, according to the forms
pof the country from whence -they came, .
._ and certiﬁed'under some known and public ‘
seal of that country ; the judge, being
satisﬁed that good cause of action appears,
may, at his discretion, hold the defendant
to bail; but no qﬁida-vit of the plaintiff
himself, or of any other person taken in
such foreign country, to prove any de
mands or accounts, not accompanied with
such writings, executed and acknowledged
or signed by the defendant, and proved as
aforesaid, shall be sufficient to-hold to
bail, although such aﬁida-uit be certiﬁed
under any public seal or seals, unlessit
shall likewise appear, in evidence to the
judge- that the defendant hath acknow
ledged such account to be just. - -
SEC. 8.' VVHE RE the plaintiff resides in some other
of the United States of /Imerica, and is not
present at the time of shewing cause of ac
tion, a positive qﬁdavit, of a subsisting
debt, being made before any Judge, Mayor,
or chief Magistrate of the city, town, or
place where the Plaintiff resides, and cer
tiﬁed under the common or public seal of
such city, town or place, shall be ad
mitted, to show the cause of action, and
shall have the same force and effect, as if
made in this state before a Judge of the
COUIT.
SEC. 9. THE manner of giving notice to the Plain
tiff, to show cause of action before a sin
gle Judge, shall be by a citation, issued
by the Judge for that purpose, appointing
a convenient time and place for the hear
mg.
xo. WHEN Attornies issue writs of capias
against defendants from» whom they do
not require-bail, they shall mark their
pnecipes with the words “no bail requir
ed ;” which the Prothonotary shall en
dorse on the writ; in which case the
Sheriff or his oﬂicer shall serve the de
fendant with a copy of the writ, as in case
of a summons; and the defendant, on
such service, and in all cases where com
mon bail is ordered- by a judge, shall
subscribe a note, with these or the like
words, “ I bereby empower tbe Prothono
tary to enter my appearance to this action ;’§
which subscription shall be tested by the
oﬁicer who serves the writ.
SEC. 11. A bail bond shall not be put in suit
until after six weeks from the return day
of the term to which the writ was return
ed.
1 2.- AFTER taking an assignment of the bail
bond, a plaintiff shall not have a rule to
bring in the body of the defendant; but
he may except to the same persons being
received as bail above, who were bail to
the Sheriff.
SEC. 13. IF special bail be excepted 'to, he shall
perfect his bail within ten days after notice
of the exception given to the defendant,
his attorney, or bail; and, in default
thereof, the plaintiff may proceed on the
bail bond.
SEC. 14. IN cases of foreign attachments, and
,
.
where special bail hath been before enter
ed, no special bail shall be taken, in or
der to dissolve the attachment, or dis-'
charge the former bail, -without notice
given to the plaintilf, or his attorney, of
the time and place of taking such bail,
that he may have an‘opportunity of ex
cepting to the suﬁiciency thereof.
Certiorari.
SEC. 15. ON a certiorari, directed to any justice
of the peace, the said justice, or, in case
of his death, his executor or administra
tor, shall return the cause of action which
W38 b€‘f0T6 him, together with all his pro
ceedings; in order that the Court may
judge of his jurisdiction, as well as the le
8‘ali’<7 and ‘fﬁgﬁlﬁrity of his process and
decision.
SEC. 16.-' 'No such certiorari shall be a superredeas,
unless the party, who sues it, gives good
bail for the amount of the demand and
costs, adjudged by the justice of the peace,
to the use of the opposite party; that the'
same shall be prosecuted with effect; nor
even then, where execution hath been ex
ecuted, or the goods and chattels levied
upon.
r7i The six weeks (or any other period)
from or after any term, shall be computed
from the ﬁrst day of the term.
- . fury.
SEC. 18. IT is ordered, that no trialbe put -oﬁ'
on account of a view not being had by
six of the ﬁrst twelve of the jury, as they
stand in the panel, provided any six of
them have viewed, and some of them do
appear to try the cause; and that such
of them, who have viewed and do ap
pear, shall be ﬁrst sworn or aﬁirtned on
the trial; and that the form of the wenire
faciar be altered accordingly.
SEC. 19. THAT, on all 'venire.r or other process
for summoning juries, issued out of this
Court, the sheriff, to whom the same
shall be direfted, do cause each juror to
be served with personal written notice to at
tend ; that such service be at least ten days
before the day of appearance speciﬁed in
such writs respectively; and that it be'
particularly mentioned in the notice, that
the juror is summoned to attend on the
general jury, or a special jury, (naming
the Plaintiff and Defendant) as the case
may be. '
SEC. 20. THAT if it shall happen,. that the same
juror shall be summoned on dyjrerent
venires, &c. on the same day, the Sheriff,
in that case do serve the said juror with
distinct notices; inserting the names of
the parties to the suits in the margin of
the notice, in the same manner as they
are indorsed on the .wnires.
SEC. 21. AND, whereas the late act, for the bet
ter regulation of juries, directs, that on
due proof, by oath or affirmation, of the
Sheriff or other credible person, that such
person, as may make default, hath been
\.
lawfully summoned, the court shall pro
ceed to ﬁne such defaulter; it is order
ed, that the Sheriff do cause the oﬂicer,
who shall have served the process, to
attend the court, on the day whereon
the oenire is returnable, in order that
the aforesaid proof may be had, when
ever it shall be deemed requisite.
SEC. 22. IT is further ordered, that the person,
who shall summon any jury upon any pro
cess out of this Court, shall make a minute
or memorandum, on the panel, of the
day of the month, and year of summon
ing each juror, and shall subscribe the
same; in order that due proof may be
had thereof, agreeably to the preceding
rules.
'7ur/gment. '
SEC. 23.' IT Is ORDERED, that no motion shall
be made for a new trial, after _a motion in
arrest of judgment. '
SEC. 24. No motion, in arrest of judgment, will
be received on the last- day of the term,
unless notice of the motion be previously
given to the opposite party or his attor
ney; without leave of the court.
2 5. Ir a warrant of Attorney to enter judg
ment, be above ten years old and under
twenty, the court, in term time, or fa
judge, in the vacation, must be moved
for leave to enter judgment; which mo
tion must be grounded on an qﬂidavit of
the due execution of the warrant, that
the money is unpaid, and the party liv
ing; but if the warrant is above twenty
years old, there must be a rule to show
cause, and served on the party, if to be
found within the state. '
Dec/arationi-'-P/ea.
SEC. 26. IF a defendant be in custody, or deliv
ered on bail in the term to which the writ
is returned, and do not, by having his
appearance recorded, praying over, de
manding a declaration, or otherwise man
ifest on record a purpose of setting up-a
defence; the plaintiff at the same -term,
having ﬁled» a declaration, may enter a
rule to put in a plea in six weeks after the
term; and for want of such plea may en
ter judgment. And if, during the term
to which the writ is returned, such de
fendant be not in custody, or delivered
on bail ; after he shall be so, within the
six weeks in which 'the bail bond cannot
be sued, the plaintiff may, in like manner,
enter a rule to put in a plea in two weeks
after the six weeks ; and, for want of
such plea, may sign judgment: And, ifwithin
the six weeks the defendant be not
in custody, or delivered on bail ; after he
shall be so, the plaintiff may, in like man
ner, enter a rule to plead in two weeks ;
and, for want of a plea, may enter judg
ment.
SEC. 27. IF a defendant hath had his appearance
recorded, the plaintiff may, in term time,
have a rule made on the defendant, to
put in a plea on or before the ﬁrst day of
the succeeding term; and, in case the
same is not complied with, a second rule
may be entered, for a plea within two
days after, or judgment; and, if not com
plied with, judgment may be entered the
next day, without any application to the
COUXT.
SEC. 28. Tun prothonotary shall endorse, on
each declaration, the time of its being
ﬁled in the office.
SEC. 29. IT IS oansann, that no dilatory plea
shall be received, unless the party offer-'
ing such plea does, by aﬂida'vit, prove’
the truth thereof, or show some probable
matter to the court, to induce them to
believe the fact of such dilatory plea is
true.
l'
SEC. 30. To setfle in future all disputes respecting
the bringing of money into court, in causes.
depending in the court of Common Pleas,
it is ruled, that the same practice shall
prevail in all such cases, as tbe Statute qf
tbefourt/J and ﬁfth Jnn, chap. 16. pre
scribes; according to the usage, practice'
and construction under it, in the court of
King’s Bench, at Westminster, at.the time of
the late Revolution.
SEC. 31. WHEN there have been mutual deal
ings between a plaintiff and defendant, and
the defendant intends, on the general issue,
to defalk his account against the plaintiff’s_
demand, or any part of it; he shall give
notice thereof in writing, at least ten days
before the trial; and, at the same time,
furnish him with a copy of the account
which he intends to give in evidence, and
rely on 2 And, if the plaintiff’s action is not
founded on a specialty, or writing, he, in
like manner, shall be obliged, on the de
fendant’s request, at the same time, or on
a reasonable notice, to give him a copy
of his account- and demand; so that there
shall be an exchange of copies at the same
time; otherwise the defendant shall not
be compelled to a trial by the plaintiff, or
'vice-=verm.
32, WHERE there is leave to alter a plea,
or under a general plea, to give the
special matter, fraud, want of eonsidera
ition, particular payments, .or defalcation,
in evidence; the alteration of the plea
shall be made, and a' speciﬁcation, in
writing, of the special matter, fraud,
want of consideration, payment, or defal-_
cation, shall, if demanded, be given to
the opposite party or attorney, in one‘
month after issue joined, or in some term
preceding that in which the trial shall be ;__
otherwise no alteration shall be allowed,‘
nor any evidence admitted of the special
matter hereby required to be speciﬁed.
Trial.
SEC. 33. IT is ordered, that, when a cause hath
been at issue in this court, for the space of
one year, without any rule or proceeding
upon it, a. Term’s notice of trial shall be
given.
SEC. 34. AT every term, the party having a
rule, and intending to bring on a cause,
shall have it set down in a list to be made
of causes to be tried at the ensuing term.
This list, which shall be put up in the
proth0notary’s oﬂice, immediately after
the term at which it is made, shall be suf
ﬁcient notice of the trial of all causes
contained therein; and such causes shall
be ﬁrst tried at the ensuing term. The
party having a rule, and intending to
bring on any cause, not contained in this
list, shall give written notice of trial to
the other party, or his attorney, or in per
son, or at their usual place of abode ; or,
if neither reside within the circuit, in like
manner, deliver it to the known agent, or.
special bail of the party, if to be found
resident therein, six weeks before the
court at which it is intended the trial shall
be. The expences of this notice, and all
other costs of the term shall be paid by
the party at whose request, or through
whose default, a cause set down on the list,
or of which notice of trial hath been
given, shall not be tried. But, if the
party setting down a cause, or giving no
tice of trial, countermand the same, three
weeks before the court, he shall pay only
intermediate costs.
W itnesses.
SEC. 35. NOTWITHSTANDING a rule of the
court hath been obtained, for taking the
depositions of witnesses, and that they
shall be read in evidence at the trial of the
cause, in case of the death, absence out
of the State, or other- legal inability of
such witnesses to attend ; yet it is required,
. that the party offering such _a deposition
in evidence, shall satisfy the court, that the
witness, if resident within this State, was
duly subpoenaed or could not be found,
after reasonable pains taken for that pur
pose; otherwise the same may not be ad
mitted. '
36-. No order shall be made for the sale of
property seized on a foreign attachment,
unless the plaintiff shall make qﬁdavif,
that the debt, stated in the declaration, is
just.
./frguments.
SEC. 37. IN all law arguments, arguing on de
murrers, reserved points, special verdicts,
motions in arrest of judgment, or cases
stated for the opinion of the court; the
counsel for the plaintiﬁ, and the counsel
for the defendant, shall, each of them, de
liver one paper book, orstate of the points
in controversy, as contended for, on their
respective sides, to the court, or the pre
sident, at least two days before the argu
ment: If either party neglect to do so,
he shall not be heard, when the cause comes
to be argued.
Bail.
December Term, 1 784.
I‘ THE Defendant shall have six weeks
from the ﬁrst day of the 'term to which
the writ is returnable, to enter special bail,
and if not then entered, the bail bond may
be sued.
SEC. 2. If special bail de bene en-e shall be en
tered, before the expiration of six weeks,
which the plaintiff shall not approve of,
he may within twenty days after the expi
ration of the six. weeks, give notice to the
defendant, or his attorney, that he excepts
to such bail, whereupon the Defendant
shall within eight days after such notice,
justify the bail before a Judge of the Court,
giving the plaintiff, or his-attorney, twenty
four hours notice of the time and place of
such justiﬁcation. If no special bail shall
be entered within the said six weeks, but
shall be entered before the commencement
of the succeeding term, the plaintiff shall
within the four ﬁrst days of that term,
make his exceptions to the suﬁiciency of
the bail, or it shall stand. But if special
bail shall not be entered before said suc
ceeding term, no special bail shall be
taken afterwards, without ﬁrst giving no
tice to the Plaintiff or his attorney, of
the time and place of taking the bail, or
obtaining the consent of the plaintiff or
his Attorney, in writing, to the suﬂiciency
of the bail.
SEC. 3. IN cases of foreign attachment, no
. special bail shall be taken, in order to dis
solve the attachment, without ﬁrst giving
notice to the Plaintiff or his Attorney, of
the time and place of taking such bail,
that he may have an opportunity of ex
. cepting to the»suﬂiciency thereof.
SEC. 4. IN all cases, where a positive aﬂidavit
-of a real subsisting debt, shall be made
by the plaintiff in the cause, or by a third
person whose knowledge Hand situation
shall enable him to make such positive
qﬁdmvit, it shall be so far conclusive, that
no counter aﬂidavit shall be admitted, but
the judge will at his discretion, 'ask such
further questions of the person making
the qﬁdavit, as shall be necessary to sat
i isfy his conscience, as well to the cause
of the action, as to the quantum of the
bail.
SEC. 5. WHEN an qﬂidaoit is not positive, but
yet suﬂicient to convince the judge, that
there is a good cause of action especially
where it is founded on a bond, note, let
ters, or other papers, signed by the de
fendant, the ]udge may, at his discretion,
hold the Defendant to bail, and in cases
where satisfaction cannot be otherwise ob
tained, counter uﬂdavits may be admit
ted, so nevertheless that the merits of
the cause be not any further enquired into,
than shall appear absolutely necessary to
decide the question of bail.
SEC. 6. THE actions, wherein bail is of course,
or where discretionary, shall be regulated
by the books of practice. ...
SEC. 7. WHEN the Plaintiff himself is not pre
sent, and the evidence of the debt is
brought from a foreign country, founded
on any bonds, notes, bills of exchange,
or other papers,“ executed, signed, or
acknowledged, by the defendant himself,
-if it shall appear, that due proof hath
-been made of the execution, acknowledg
ment, or signature, before a lawful mag
istrate or other public oﬁicer, according
to the forms of the country, from whence
they came, and certiﬁed under some known
and public seal of that country, the Judge,
being satisﬁed that a good cause of action
appears, may, at his discretion, hold the
defendant to bail, but no qﬂidavit of the
plaintiff himself, or any other person,
taken' in such foreign country, to prove
any demands or accounts not accompanied
with such writings, executed, acknowl
edged, or signed, by the defendant, and
proved as aforesaid, shall be suﬂicient to
hold the defendant to-bail, although such
aﬂidavit be certiﬁed under any public seal
or seals, unless it shall likewise appear in
evidence to the judge, that the defendant
hath acknowledged such demands or ac
counts to be just.
SEC. 8. WHERE the Plaintiff resides in some
other of the United States of America, and
is not present at the time of shewing cause
of action, a positive aﬂidavit of subsisting.
debt being made before any Judge, Mayor,
or Chief Magistrate, of the city, town, or
place, where the plaintiff resides, and cer
tiﬁed under the common or_publicﬂseal of
such city, town, or place, shall be admit
ted to shew the cause of action, and shall
have the same force and eﬂ"ect, as ifmade
in this state, before a‘judge of the Court.
SEC. 9. THE manner of giving notice to the
Plaintiﬂs, to shew cause before a single'judge,
shall be by application to the judge
himself, who will issue his citation for
that purpose, appointing such time and
place for the hearing, as he shall ﬁnd
convenient to himself and the parties con
cerned. 1
I0. Ir Plaintiff ﬁle his declaration within two
months after the return day of the writ, he
shall be entitled to a rule to plead, and if
no plea be entered before or at the time of
settling the continuance docket at the
succeeding Term, the Plaintiff may sign
judgment, which, however, to prevent sur
prize, the defendant may take off, on ﬁling
an issuable plea, and giving Plaintiff’s at
torney notice thereof within four days
after the judgment, but not afterwards,
without motion and qﬂida'vit of a defence.
II. IF the declaration be not ﬁled within
two months after the return day of the
writ, judgment shall not be taken at the
succeeding term, for want of a plea, un
less the Plaintiff, after ﬁling his declaration,
had made a demand of a plea in writing,
at least four days before the day of settling
the continuance docket.--If the declara
tion be not ﬁled, till after the commence
ment of the second term, there shall be
a six weeks rule to plead, of which, the de
fendant or his attorney (unless the rule be
entered at the time of settling the continu
ance docket) shall have four days notice be
fore judgment be entered.
1 2. Tnnsz rules are not meant to preclude
defendant in special cases from applying
either to the Court, or a single Judge,
for enlarging the time of pleading.
I 3. THE Prothonotary, to endorse on each
declaration the day of its being ﬁled.
December 6, 1780.
SEC. 14. RULED, that in all motions in ar
rest of judgment, reasons shall be ﬁled.
ﬂttorniex.
1- 5. DRDERED, that for the future, when
Jul! 1186-
any person, applying to be admitted an»
attorney of this Court, he shall be direct
ed to be examined; three gentlemen of
'the law shall be appointed by the Court
for that purpose, who, in the presence of
the President of the Court, if he can at
tend, or in case of his absence, in the pre
sence of two other of the judges, shall.
examine the person in the fullest manner,
-and unanimously certify to the Court, in
writing, that he is well qualiﬁed to practise,
before he shall be admitted.
SEC. 16. IT is ordered, that no person shall be
hereafter admitted to practise as an attor
ney or counsellor at law in this court,
unless he hath served a regular clerkship
within this state to some practising attor
ney or gentleman of the law, of known
abilities, for the term of three years, or
hath served such clerkship partly in one
of the neighbouring states of New-_‘7er.re_y,
Delaware, or Maryland, and -partly in
this State, the last year of which service
shall have been in this state.
PROVIDED however, that this part of the
rule shall have no retrospect as to such per
sons, who have studied part of their time
in other states than those alone mention
ed, and have begun their last years studies
in this state prior to the making of this rule,
nor until such person shall produce to the
court, a certiﬁcate from three gentlemen
of the law, to be appointed by the court,
for that purpose, that the said person
hath undergone an examination by them,
in the presence of the President or two
other judges of this Court, and hath satis
ﬁed them, that he is well qualiﬁed to
practise.
Provided always, that in case of a
person, applying to be admitted, who shall
appear to have studied the law with assidu
ity, under the direction of some practising
attorney or gentleman of the law in this
state for the term of two years after his
arrival at the age of twenty one years, or
partly in one of the said neighbouring
states, and partly in this state (the last year
being in this state) and being a person of
integrity, and certiﬁed in manner aforesaid
to be well qualiﬁed, he shall be admitted.
AND provided likewise, that attornies
at law, residing, practising, and originally
admitted in one of the said states of New
jersey, Delaware, or Maryland, and being
persons of good character and known abil
ities, may be admitted at the discretion of
the Court: But no Citizen or inhabitant
of any other state, shall be admitted un
til he shall have resided within this state
for two years next preceding his applica
tion for admission: Nor shall any
alien or foreigner be admitted to practise
as an Attorney or Counsellor in this
court, until he shall have resided four
years within the state next before his
application for admission : It is further or
dered, that persons who have studied the
law in this State in some other county
than Philadelphia, shall ﬁrst be admitted
in’ the county where they studied, be
fore they can be admitted here, unlessa
satisfactory reason is shewn to the Court
for such non-admission: but notwithstand
ing such admission, they shall undergo
the usual examination here, unless they
have been likewise admitted to the Su
preme Court.
Rejrorts.
February 1789.
SEC. 17. REPORTS of referrees are to be read in
open Court on the ﬁrst Saturday of the
term, and reasons for setting aside such re
ports are to be ﬁled within four days'after
wards, excluding Sundays, accompanied
with eﬁdavits as to facts, which do not
appear upon the face of the proceedings ;
as to reports not read on that day, whether
brought into Court or not, ﬁled in the oﬁice
in term time or vacation, no executions
are to issue thereon, till notice is given to
the opposite party; after which notice
such party is to have four days for ﬁling
reasons.
Bail.
September, 1790.
SEC. 18. YVHEN Attornies issue writs of Capias
against defendants, from whom they do
not require bail, they will mark their prai
cipes with the words “ No bail required”,
which the Prothonotary must endorse on
the writ, in which casethe Sheriff or his
officer is to serve the defendant with a
copy of the writ, as in cases of summons
es; and the Defendant, on such service,
must subscribe a note with these, or the
like words “ I hereby empower Ihe Pro
thonotary to enter my appearance to t/Jis
action”—which subscription is to be attest
ed by the ofﬁcer, who serves the writ, and
in all cases where common bail is ordered
by a judge, the like note to the Prothon
otary must be subscribed and attested by
the officer.
SEC. 19. IN taxing costs, where the bill is con
siderable, it will be proper to give notice
to the Attorney of the opposite party, of
the time of taxing, that he may attend
and make his objections.
SEC. 20. IN charging for witnesses, not only
those who did attend and were examined,
but those who attended formerly, if not
subpoenaed, although not attending at the
trial, are to be allowed for their former at
tendance, if the party swears they were
material.
2 I. THE party gaining is to be allowed his
costs at each term that the cause went
off ; provided it was not put off by him,
i or by his default.
SEC. 22. IN charging the mileage, where two or
more witnesses live at the same place, or
in the same neighbourhood, full mileage is
not to be charged on each, but full mileage
to the nearest, and from that one to the
next, &c.
