be liable to the party aggrieved for such damages as he may have 
sustained by such neglect or refusal. 
Sso, o. Every town sergeant and constable in the due execution
of his office, is empowered to command all necessary aid and
assistance in the execution of his said office; and if any person,
when so required, shall refuse or neglect to give such aid and
assistance, he shall be fined not exceeding twenty dollars. 
SEc. 6. Any person injured by the breach of any town ser­
geant's or constable's bond, may commence an action thereon in
the name of the town treasurer of the town, for his own use, under
like circumstances, and in the same manner, and subject to the
same provisions, as he might do in the name of the general treas­
urer upon a bond given by the sheriff, if he were injured by the
breach thereof. 
Of Actions and Process. 
CHAPTER 176. Of actions. 
TITLE XXVI. 
CHAPTER 177. Of the limitation of actions. 
CHAPTER 178. Of the forms of writs. 
CnAPTEll 179. Of the plaintiff's surety and the service of writs. 
CHAPTER 180. Of arrests and taking bail. 
CHAPTER 181. Of attachments. 
CHAPTER 182. Of the attachment of property of foreign corporations and
of corporate stock. 
CHAPTER 183. Of foreign attachment. 
[TITLE XXVL ACTIONS. 
~HA.PTER 178. Jz,: J t"f· J/1: 
OF ACTIONS. 
SECTION I SECTION 
1. Snits in 11\w and equity concerning , 6. Actions on note assigned or in<lorscd
real property, in whnt county brought. I against promisor, where. 
2. Other actions, in what county. 7, Effect of bringing actions in wrong 
3. Where, if parties reside out of state. county. 
-1 and 5. Trnnsitory actions by or against j 8. Promise, whtin to be in writing to
corporatiom, where. : maintain action. 
Digitized by Google 
I 
SECTION 1. All actions and suits, as well at law as in equity,
which concern the realty or any right, easement or interest therein,
or the possession thereof, all actions of trespass for the breaking
and entering the close of any plaintiff, and all other actions in
which title to real estate may be tried and determined, shall be
brought in the county in which the land lies. 
SEc. 2. All other actions and suits shall be brought either in the
county where the plaintiff or defendant, or some one of the parties
plaintiff or defendant shall dwell, or in the county in which the de­
fendant, or some one of the parties defendant shall be found. 
SEc. 3. If no one of the parties plaintiff or defendant shall dwell
in this state, such personal or transitory action may be brought in
any county. 
SEc. 4. Personal or transitory actions brought by or against cor­
porations, shall be brought either in the county in which the other
party, or some one of the other parties dwells, or in which the cor­
por:ition is located by its charter, or if not lo~ated by its. charter, in
wh1.ch the annual meetings of the corporation are required to be, 
or, if not required to be, are actually holden.
8Ec. 5. If no one of the parties plaintiff or defendant dwells 
within the state, and the corporation be established out of this
state, such personal or transitory action by or against it, may be 
brought in any county. . .
SEc. 6. All actions brought on any promissory note. in the name 
of the assignee or indorsee, against the original prormsor, shall be
brought in the same county in which the action ought by law to
be brought if no assignment or in<lorsement of such note had been 
made.
SEc. 7. All actions brought in other counties than is provided by 
the preceding sections of this chapter shall be abated.
8Ec. 8. No action shall be brought- 
First. Whereby to charge any person upon any contract for the 
sale of lands, tenements or hereditaments, or the making of any
lease thereof for a longer time that one year; 
Second: Whereby to charge any person upon any agreement
made upon consideration of marriage; 
Third. Whereby t.o charge any executor or administrator upon
his special promise to answer any debt or damage out of his own
estate; 
Fozirlh. Whereby to charge any person upon his special promise
to answer for the debt, default or miscarriage of another person; 
Fifth. Whereby to charge any person upon any agreement
which is not to be performed within the space of one year from
the making thereof; - 
Unless the promise or agreement upon which such action shall
be brought, or some note or memorandum thereof .shall be in
writing, and signed by the party to be charged therewith, or by
some other person by him thereunto lawfully authorized. 
SEC. 9. No action shall be brought against the Iudian tribe of
this state, or any member thereof resident in the town of Charles·
town, for the recovery of debt; but the court or justice befo!e
whom such action shall be brought, or may be pending,-shall, m
any stage thereof, dismiss the same with double costs against the 
~~~ . 
SEC, 10. In addition to the causes of action and actions which
survive at common law the death of the plaintiff or defendant
therein, the following causes of action and actions shall also
survive:- 
First. Causes of action and actions of waste ;
Second. Causes of action and actions of replevin and trover;
Tkird. Causes of action and actions of trespass and trespass 
.on the case for damages to the person, or to real and personal
estate. 
SEC. 11. All the causes of action and actions as well as appeals
therein in the next preceding section mentioned, may be ori~i~ally
brought and prosecuted by and against executors and adrniuistre­ 
tors ; appeals at any time during the term of the court to which
the appeal is given, which shall commence next after the lapse of a
month from the death of the testator or intestate, and if prosecuted
or brought by the testator or intestate in his lifetime, may be pros·
ecuted against or defended by his executors or administrators. 
SEC. 12. Whenever any of said causes of action or actions are
prosecuted or brought against the executor or administrator of the
party originally liable, the plaintiff shall be entitled to recover only
the value of the goods taken, or the damage actually sustained,
without any vindictive or exemplary damages, or damages for any
alleged outrage to the feelings of the injured party. 
SEC. 13. Actions of ejectment shall survive the death of the
plaintiff or plaintiffs, defendant or defendants, or any of them, and
may_ b: prosecuted or defended by the heir, devisee, executor or
administrator of the deceased party, as the right may descend or 
vest, 
SEC. 14. In no case shaJl the title to real estate be settled or af­
fected, except so far as relates to the case on trial, if, and so far as,
the same shall be prosecuted or defended by an executor or admin­
istrator. 
SEC. 15. Claims for damages on account of the laying out of
highways through lands of the claimants, and appeals from pro·
ceedings laying oat highways shall survive the death of the claim­
ant or appellant; and the executor, administrator, heir or devisee
of the claimant or appellant may jointly or severally, according to
their interest, prosecute such claim or appeal in any stage of the
proceedings in case of an appeal, giving bond, filing reasons of
appeal, and entering the same at any time during the term of the
court of common pleas in the same county next after the final 
action of the town council on the report of laying out, or next
after a month succeeding the death of the claimant or appellant,
whichever may last happen. 
SEC. 16. If the life of any person, being a passenger in any
stage-coach, or other conveyance, when used by common carriers,
or the life of any person, whether a passenger or not, in the care of
proprietors of, or common carriers by means of, railroad or steam­
boats, or the life of any person crossing upon a public highway
with reasonable care, shall be lost by reason of the negligence or 
carelessness of such common carriers, proprietor or proprietors, or
by the unfitness or negligence or carelessness of their servants or
agents, in this state, such common carriers, proprietor or proprie­
tors, shall be liable to damages for the injury caused by the loss of 
life of such person, to be recovered by action on the case, for the
benefit of the husband or widow and next of kin of the deceased
person, one moiety thereof to go to the husband or widow, and 
the other to the children of the deceased. 
SEc. 17. If in such case there shall be no children, the whole of 
such damages shall go to the husband or widow ; and if no hus­
band or widow, to the next of kin, according to the law of this
state regulating the distribution of intestate personal estate 
amongst the next of kirr. 
SEc. 18. In addition to such action in favor of the widow and
kindred of the deceased, a like action may be maintained for dam­
~ges for such loss of life, by any person having a direct pecuniary
interest. in the continuance of the life of such deceased person. 
SEc. 19. Actions for the benefit of the widow and next of kin
of such passenger or person, may, in all cases be brought by the 
executor or administrator of the deceased, whether such executor
or administrator be appointed and qualified as such within or with­
out this state; but where there is a widow only, she may, at her 
option, sue in her own name. _ 
SEc. 20. To maintain such actions itshall not be necessary first 
to institute criminal proceedings against the defendants. 
SEc. 21. In all cases in which the death of any person ensues
from i~jurr inflicted by the wrongful act o~ an?ther, and in which 
an action tor damages might have been maintained at the common 
law had death not ensued, the person inflicting such injury shall
be liable to an action for damages for the injury caused by the
death of such person, to be recovered by action of the case for the
use of his or her husband, widow, children, or next of kin, in like
manner and with like effect, as in the preceding five sections pro­
vided. 
SEC. 22. Whenever any person shall suffer any injury to his per­
son, reputation or estate, by the commission of any crime or
offence, he may recover .his damages for such injury, either in an
action of trespass or in an action on the case, against the offender, · 
SEC. 23. No such action except as provided in the five sections
preceding the last, shall be commenced for such injury until after
complaint has been made to some proper magistrate for such crime
or offence, and process issued thereon against the offender, except­
ing only those cases in which such actions may now be main­
tained at comrr;ion law; and whenever any person shall be con­
victed of larceny, he shall be liable to the owner or owners of the
money or articles taken, for twofold the value thereof, unless the
same be restored, and 011e fold the value thereof in case of resto­
ration, to be recovered by civil action. 
SEC. 24. The representatives of one jointly bound with another
for the payment of any debt, or for performance or forbearance of
any act, or for any other thing, and dying in the lifetime of the
latter, may be charged by virtue of such obligation in the. same
manner as such representative might have been charged, if the
obligors had been bound severally as well as jointly: Prodded,
that the plaintiff shall first pursue the surviving debtor to final
judgment and execution. · r 
SEC, 25. No judgment rendered against a part only of the de­
fendants in an action upon a joint contract, shall be a bar to any
future action on said contract against. such of the defendants upon
whom or whose estate the writ in the original action may not have 
been served. 
SEc. 26. Any innkeeper who shall provide a suitable safe in his
house for the safe-keeping of any money, jewels or ornaments be­
longing to his guests, and shall notify them thereof by po:-ting a
printed notice conspicuously in the rooms, that such safe has been
provided for said purpose, shall not be liable for the loss of any
money, jewels or ornaments, by theft or otherwise, which any
guest who has neglected to deposit the same in such safe may sus­
tain. 
. SECTION 1. Actions upon the case for words spoken shall be
commenced and sued within two years next after the words
spoken, and not after. 
SEc. 2. Actions of trespass shall be commenced and sued within
four years next after the cause of action shall accrue, and not 
after. . . 
SEc. 3. All actions of account, except on such accounts as con·
cern trade or merchandise between merchant and merchant, their
factors and servants, all actions of the case, except for words spo-,
ken, all actions of debt founded upon any contract without spe­
cialty, or brought for arrearages of rents, and all actions of detinue 
and replevin, shall be commenced and sued within six years next
after the cause of such action shall accrue, and not after. 
SEc. 4. All actions of debt other than those in the next -preced­ 
ing section specified, and all actions of covenant shall be com·
menced and sued within twenty years next after the cause of
action shall accrue, and not after. 
SEc. 5. If any person, a resident of this state, against whom
~here is or shall be cause for any action hereinbefore enumerated,
m favor of a resident therein, shall, at the time such cause accrue,
be without the limits of this state, or being within said state at the
time such cause accrue shall go out of said state before said ac­
tion shall be barred by the provisions of this chapter, and shall not
have or leave property or estate therein that can, by the common
and ordinary process of Jaw, be attached, then the person entitled
t? ~uch action may commence the same, within th~ time before 
limited after such person shall return into this state m such man­
ner _that ~n action may, with reasonable diligence, be commenced
agamst him by the pe~son entitled to the same. . 
S~c. 6. lf any person at the time any such action shall accrue
lo him, shall be within the age of twenty-one years, feme co~ert, 
non compos rnentis, imprisoned, or beyond the limits of the United 
States, such person may bring the same, within such time as is 
hereinbefore limited, after such impediment is removed. 
SEc. 7. If any person, for or against whom any of said actions
shall accrue, shall die before the time limited for bringing the same,
or within sixty days after the expiration of said time, and the
cause of said action shall survive, such action may be commenced
by or against the executor or administrator of the deceased person,
as the case may be, at any time within one year after the granting
of letters testamentary or of administration, and not afterwards,
if barred by the provisions of this chapter. 
SEc. 8. If any action duly commenced within the time limited
and allowed therefor, in and by this chapter, shall be abated or
otherwise avoided or defeated by the death of any party thereto, or
for any matter, or if after verdict for the plaintiff, the judgment
shall be arrested, the plaintiff may commence a new action for the
same cause, at any time within one year after the abatement or
other determination of the original suit as aforesaid; and if the
cause of action does by law survive, his executor or administrator
may, in case of his death, commence said new action within the 
said one year.
SEC. 9. No action shall be brought against any executor or ad· 
ministrator in his said capacity, within one year after the will
shall be proved or administration granted ; except for medicines
and attendance in the last sickness, and funeral charges of the
deceased, and excepting also actions brought in pursuance of the
seventh section of this chapter; nor shall any action be brought
against any executor or administrator in his said capacity, unless
the same shall be commenced within three years next after the
will shall be proved or administration shall be granted : Provided,
such executor or administrator shall give notice of his appoint­
ment, by publishing the same in some public newspaper in this
state, nearest to the place in which the deceased person last dwelt,
and in such other manner as the court of probate shall direct; said
periods to be reckoned from the time of giving such notice. . 
SBc. 10. No action shall be brought against any heir or devisee
of a deceased person, for the payment of the debts of the ancestor,
or testator within three years next after administration granted or
probate of the will made. · 
SEc. 11. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
case in which, by special provision, a different time is limited . 
SECTION 1. All original writs, and writs of mesne process issued
by the supreme court, or by the court of common pleas, shall issue 
in the name of the state of Rhode Island and Providence Planta­
tions ; shall be under the seal of the court from which they issue,
and shall be signed by the clerk of the court ; but if the clerk be a
party to the suit, by some one of the justices of the supreme 
court. 
SEc. 2. They shall bear teste of the chief justice of the supreme
court, but in case the office of chief justice be vacant, or the chief
justice be a party to the suit, of the senior or presiding justice of
the supreme court, not a party. 
SEc. 3. They shall run throughout the state, and shall be di­
rected to the sheriffs of all the counties in the state, or their dep­
uties ; but, if the sheriff of any county be a party to the suit, the
process, if to be served in that county, shall in addition to the
former direction, be directed to the town sergeants in the. county,
and may be served by any one of them, not a party thereto. 
SEc. 4. Writs issued by justices of the peace, or by magistrates
or courts exercising the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, shall
also issue in the name of the state of Rhode Island and Provi­
dence Plantations, shall be under the hand and seal of such justice,
magistrate or court, shall be made returnable before such justice,
magistrate or court, at a day, hour and place named therein, and
shall be directed to the sheriff his deputy, or to either of the town
sergeants, or constables of the county in which the suit shall be
brought ; and every such original writ shall contain the plaintiff's
declaration at length. . 
SEc. 5. The forms of the original writs to be used m the. sev­
eral courts of this state, shall be substantially as follows, to wit :- 
Writ of arrest.
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[SEAL] so. - To the sheriffs of our several counties or to tl,eir dep-
uties greeting : - 
We· command you to arrest the body of (if may be
found in your precinct,) and for want of body to attach
goods and chattels to the value of dollars, and or
those in safe custody keep, to answer the complaint of at the
next court to be holden at within and for our said
county of on the Monday of next ensuing the
date hereof, in an action of as by declaration to be filed in
court will be fully set forth: to the damage of the plaintiff
dollars. Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ with
your doings thereon. Witness, Esq. at this 
d~y of in the year Clerk. 
SEC, 6. ll,..rit of summons.
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[SEAL] sc. - To the sheriffs of our several counties or lo tlieir dep-
uties greeting : - 
We command you to summon - (if may be found in
your precinct,) to answer the complaint of at the next 
court to be holden at within and for our said county
of on the Monday of next ensuing the date her~-
of, in an action of as by declaration to be filed in court will
be fully set forth: to the damage of the plaintiff dol~ars.
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ with your doings
thereon. Witness, Esq. at this day of in 
the year ' Clerk. 
SEc. 7. JVrit of arrest to be issued by a justice of the peace. 
[SEAL] sc. - To the sheriff, his deputy, or to either of the town
sergeants or constables in the county of
greeting: - 
You are hereby, in the name of the state of Rhode Island an~
Providence Plantations, required to arrest the body of [if 
may be found in your precinct,) and for want of body
to attach goods and chattels, to answer the complaint of 
at a justices' court to be holden at in on the day
of at o'clock in the noon, in an action of to 
the damage of the plaintiff (as says) dollars. ~ere· 
of fail not, and make true return of this writ with your doings
thereon. 
Given under my hand and seal, at
of in the year 
day
aforesaid, the 
Justice of the Peace, 
SEc. 8. Writ of repleuin.
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[SEAL,] so, To the sheriffs of our several counties and to their
deputies, greeting: - 
We command you, that you replevy, if to be found within your
precinct, the goods and chattels fo1lowing, viz. : (here enumerate
and particularly describe them) belonging to of now
taken (detained or attached as the case may be) by of
at in the county of and them deliver unto the said 
provided the same are not taken, attached or detained upon
mesne process, warrant of distress, or upon execution as the prop-
erty of the said and summon the said that he appear
before our court next to be holden at within and
for the county of on the Monday of to answer
unto the said in a plea of replevin ; that the said on
the day of at said unlawfully, and without justi-
fiable cause, took the goods and chattels of the said as afore­
said, and them unlawfully detained unto this day, (or unlawfully
detained the goods and chattels aforesaid, as the case may be.) to
the damage of the said as he says, dollars. Hereof fail
not, and make true return of this writ with your doings thereon,
together with the bond you shall take of the plaintiff. 
Witness, Esq., at this day of in the year
Clerk. 
SEc. 9. Scire f acias. 
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[SEAL.] so, To the sheriffs of our several counties, and to tlieir
deputies, g-,:eeting: - 
Whereas, of by the consideration of the
holden at in said county, on the day of 
covered judgment against of for the sum of
dollars and cents, and costs taxed at as appears of
record, and execution thereof remains to be done:·- · 
We command you therefore to summon the said· to appear
before the court to be holden at in said county
of on the day of to show caus? if any he hath,
wherefore, the said should not have execution agamst
for the sums aforesaid. Hereof fail not, and make true return of 
this writ with your doings thereon.
Witness, Esq., at this , 
SEc. 10. The form of a writ of scire· facias may be varied from
the above to adapt it to service bJ arrest or attachment. 
SEC. 11. An original writ issued by the supreme court or, court
of common pleas against a person whose body or pe~ona! estate 
cannot be found within this state, may be altered by inserting the
~ords" or real estat.e," next after the words "goods and chattels," 
in order to attach the real estate of the defendant. 
day of 
re-
court 
in the year
Clerk. 
SEC. 12. Every original writ issued against a female, founded on 
a contract not under seal, shall be a writ of summons and not a 
writ of arrest; and in such case, if the female be not found within
this state, her real estate liable to attachment, may be attached by
a writ of swnmons altered, by inserting after the words " if to be
found in your precinct," the words " and if not to be found, to
attach her goods and· chattels or real estate to the value of
dollars, and them in safe custody keep, &c." 
SEC, 13. Whenever an original writ shall issue against more
than one defendant, the forms hereinbefore given, may be altered
so as to combine both the writ of arrest and the writ of summons;
in order that the same may be served on one or more of the de­
fendants by a writ of summons, and on the other or others, by at­
tachment of real or personal estate. 
SEC, 14. In cases where no form of process is prescribed by law,
such process shall be made conformable to the forms prescribed in 
this chapter, so far as the nature of the case will admit. 
SEc. 15. When the name of any defendant or respondent is not
known to the plaintiff, the writ may issue against him by a fieti­
tious name, or by such description as the plaintiff or complainant
may select, and if duly served it shall not be abated for that cause,
but may be amended with or without terms, as the court may 
order. 
OF THE PLAINTIFF'S SURETY, AND THE SERVICE OF WRITS. 
SECTION I SECTION 
I. Writs, when to be indorsed. 5. Of service on Sunday.
2. N?w .i?do"":r, when may be requi~.. 6. Writ of summons, how.sen-cd. 
3. Liability of indorser for costs, and limi- 7. ,v rit of summons against a corpora·
tation of. 
4, Writs of supreme court and court of
common pleas, when to be served and 
when returnable. 
• SE~TION 1. A!l original writs in which the plaintiff is n?t an
~habitant of this state, shall, before the service of such writ, ~e
mdorsed by some sufficient person who is an inhabitant of this
state; or the plaintiff may be required, at the first term of the
court, to give such indorser. 
S~c. 2. In any case, the court, justice of the peace or ot~er
magistrate before whom the same is pending, may, upon motion
of any defendant, and for cause shown, require the plaintiff ~o pro­
cure anot~er or a · sufficient inderser ; and upon his neglecting to
comply with such order, the case shall be dismissed, with costs for 
the defendant. 
VDA.PTER 179. Jo 6 r 
tion, how.
8. Writs of scire facias, how. 
SEC. 3. Every such indorser shall be liable, in case the plaintiff
make not his plea good, to pay all costs that shall be awarded
against the plaintiff: Provided, suit be brought therefor within one
year after final judgment in such suit. 
SEC. 4. All original writs and writs of mesne process for bring­
ing any civil cause or writ to a trial, at any term of the supreme
court or of any court of common pleas, except a special court of
common pleas, shall be returnable to the term of such court which
will commence next after twenty days or more from the date
thereof; and shall' be served twenty days before the return day
thereof, except in those cases in which special provision shall be 
made to the contrary. 
SEc. 5. No civil proce1:1s whatsoever shall be served on Sunday;
but every such service shall be utterly void. 
8Ec. 6. An original summons shall be served by reading the
same to the person to be summoned, or by leaving an attested
copy. thereof with him, or at his last and usual place of abode, by
the officer to whom the same shall be directed. 
SEc. 7. Writs of summons issued against any company ineor-
porated in this state, shall be served by leaving an attested copy 
thereof, if a bank, with the cashier thereof, if an insurance com-
pany, with the president or secretary thereof, and if any other cor-
porate body, with the treasurer or person executing the duties of
treasurer thereof, and in such other mode as by the charter of such
corporation or by law may be provided. . 
SEC. 8. Writs of scire facias may be served by summons, arrest
or attachment ; but no attachment of real or personal estate, or by
garnishee process, shall be made thereon, except in cases by law
provided for such attachment on writs of arrest. 
"SECTION 
CHAPTER 180. 
OF ARRESTS AND TAKING BAIL. 
1. Females not subject to arrest, when.
2. Voters exempted, when.
3. Military officers and privates, when.
4. Right to be let to bail, what.
G and 6. Bail, how taken. 
SECTION 
7. Bail of persons committed on mesne
process out of county of Providenes, 
how taken.
8 and 9. Bail of such pcnons committed 
to jail in Providence, when and how. 
SECTION 1. No female shall be arrested on original writ in any
action founded on contract not under seal. 
SEc. 2. No person entitled to vote shall be liable t<;> arrest .upon
. any civil process on the days of election for the choice of city or 
town officers, of state officers, representatives to ~ongress, or of
electors of president and vice-president <?f the Umted. States, or
on the day preceding or on the day followmg such election. 
SEc. 3. No officer, non-commissioned officer or private shall be
arrested on civil process, while going to or coming from, or remain·
ing at any place which he shall have been ordered to attend, for
the election of any military officer, or the performance of any mili­
tary duty. 
SEc. 4. Every sheriff, deputy sheriff, town sergeant and consta­ 
hie, who shall arrest any person by virtue of any writ or mesne
process in a civil action, shall let the person so arrested to bail, 
upon his giving sufficient surety for his appearance at the court to
which such writ or process shall be returnable, and to abide the 
final judgment which shall be rendered thereon. 
SEC. 5. He who becomes bail for any person shall give bond to
the sheriff, if the writ or process shall be served by the sheriff or
his deputy; and if the writ or process shall be served by a town
sergeant or constable, the bail bond in such case shall be given to
the officer serving the same. 
SEC. 6. Instead of giving bond as aforesaid the person becom­
ing bail may indorse his christian and surname on the back of the
writ or process which shall hold him as bail to the same extent as
if he had executed and delivered a formal bail bond. 
SEC. 7. Any person committed to jail in any county, except the
count.y of Providence, by virtue of an arrest on any writ or mesne
process in any civil action, or by surrender of former bail in the
same action, shall be let to bail or to new bail, as the case may be,
in manner before provided, at any time before the rendering of final 
judgment on the original wr~t on whi~h. t~e arrest was made. . 
SEJ. 8. Any person committed to Jail in the county of Provi­
dence, on any writ or mesne process in any civil action, or by sur­
render of former bail in the same action, may be let to bail or to
new bail, as the case may be, by the keeper of said jail, or by the
officer who served the process, at any time before final judgment
shall be rendered on the writ on which the arrest was made, upon
his giving sufficient surety for his appearance at the court to which
such writ is returned, and to abide the final judgment which shall
be rendered thereon. 
SEc. 9. In case bail be taken by said keeper, the person becom·
ing bail shall give bond to the keeper ill a penal sum equal to the.
damages laid in said writ; but if bail be taken by the officer who
served said writ, the person becoming bail may give such bond to
t.he officer, or may indorse his christian and surname on the back
of said writ or process, which shall hold him as bail, as in other 
cases. 
SECTION 1. All property, real and personal, which is liable to be
~ken in execution, may be attached and held as security for the
Judgment which the plaintiff may recover, in the manner and
under the circumstances hereinafter set forth. 
SEc. 2. The following goods and property shall. be exempted
from attachment and execution on any warrant of distress, or any 
other writ original or judicial: -
. 1. The necessary wearing apparel of a debtor, or of his family,
if he have a family; 
2. 'I'he working tools of a debtor necessary in his or her usual
occupation, not exceeding in value the sum of fifty doJlars; 
3. The household furniture and family stores of a housekeeper,
in the whole, including beds and bedding, not exceeding in value
the sum of two hundred dollars; 
4. The bibles and school-books in use in the family ;
5. One cow, and one and a half tons of hay, of a housekeeper;
6. One hog and one pig, and the pork of the same, when 
slaughtered, of a housekeeper.
7. The uniform, arms, ammunition and equipments of every 
officer, non-commissioned officer and private in the militia;
8. 'I'he debtor's interest in one pew, in any church or meeting­ 
house, in which he or his family usually worship; .
9. Thedebtor's interest in one lot, or right of burial, as the case 
may be, in any cemetery; .
10. Mariners' wages, until after the termination of the voyage m 
which such wages shall have been earned; . .
11. Debts secured by bills of exchange or negotiable promissory 
notes; · 
12. Such other property, real, personal, or mixed, in possession 
or action, as is or shall be exempted from attachment and execu­
tion, either permanently or temporarily, by general or special acts,
charters of incorporation, or by the policy of the law. 
SEC, 3. Whenever a writ of arrest, or other writ authorizing an
arrest, shall be delivered to an officer for . service, he shall use his
best endeavors to arrest the body of the defendant. · 
SEc. 4. If in such case the officer cannot find the body of the
defendant within his precinct, or, in case the writ lawfully orders
an attachment of the goods and chattels of. the defendant in the
first instance, he shall attach his goods and chattels, to the value
commanded in the writ, if so much can be found, and may attach
any less value if the plaintiff or his attorney shall give order
therefor on the back of such writ. 
SEC. 5. When any attachment is made in manner aforesaid, the
same shall be sufficient to bring the cause to trial ; and the officer
who shall make any attachment as aforesaid, shall immediately
after, leave an attested copy of such writ, with a copy of his
doings thereon, at the defendant's usual place of abode, if any he
have in the precinct of the officer, with some person there, and
otherwise with the person in the possession of the property, that
the defendant may have knowledge of the suit. . 
SEC. 6. When any officer shall attach any goods or chattels on
original writ, he shall keep the same in his hands, as security to
sarisf y such judgment as the plaintiff may recover. . 
SEc. 7. When any officer shall attach on original writ any hve
animals, or any goods or chattels which are liable to perish or
waste, or to be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or which can· 
.not be kept without great and disproportionate expense, the court
in which the same may be pending, in term time, or either of the
justices of the supreme court, in vacation, may, on the written ap·
plication of any person interested in such property, cause the de·
fendant and the attaching creditor, their att.orneys or agents, to be
notified to appear at a time and place appointed for that purpose,
to show cause why the same should not be sold. 
SEC. 8. If, after reasonable notice, no person appear, or no suffi·
cient cause to the contrary be shown, the court or justice may
direct the officer to sell the same, in the manner prescribed by law
for selling goods and chattels on execution ; and such officer shall
hold the proceeds of such sales, after deducting therefrom the
necessary charges thereof, as security to satisfy such judgment as
the attaching creditor may recover, in the same manner as if he
held the property itself. 
SEc. 9. In case any officer for taxes, or by any warrant of dis­
tress whatsoever, shall distrain the goods and chat.tels of any per­
son, he shall proceed in the same manner, and be holden. t? 
the same rules as hereinbefore directed in attachments in cml
-actions. 
SEc. 10. Personal estate, when mortgaged and in the possessi~n
of the mortgagor, and. while the same is redeemable at. law or m
~quity, may be attached on mesne process against the mortgagor
m the same manner as his other personal estate. 
8.EC, 11. When attached, such mortgaged estate may be sold,
upon the application of the mortgagee, or of either of the parties 
to the suit, in the manner provided for the sale of perishable goods
and chattels when attached on mesue process. . 
SEC. 12. Upon any such sale, the attaching officer shall first ap­ 
ply so much of the proceeds of the sale as may be necessary to
pay the amount for which the said property was mortgaged, with
such deduction for interest for the anticipated payment or allow­
ance for damages for such anticipated payment, as may be allowed
by the court or judge directing the sale; and the officer shall hold
only the balance, for the purposes of the attachment. 
SEC. 13. 'I'he plaintiff in any such attachment may redeem the
mortgaged estate in the same manner as the mortgagor might
have done; and in case of such redemption, the plaintiff shall
have the same lien on the property for the amount paid by him,
with interest, as the mortgagee had. . 
SEC. 14. If the mortgage be not redeemed by the plaintiff, or
sold as before mentioned, before the time of redemption expires,
the attachment shall become void. 
SEc. 15. The officer to whom a writ may be delivered for service,
with the words "or real estate" added in the writ next after the
words" goods and chattels," shall, in case the body or personal 
estate of the debtor cannot be found in this state, or, in case the
goods and chattels or real estate of the defendant are lawfully
ordered to be attached in the first instance, attach the real estate
of the defendant in the same manner as is directed by law for
attaching personal estate. 
SEc. 16: The officer attaching any real estate as aforesaid, shall
leave a copy of the writ by which the same shall be attached, and
of his doings thereon, with the person in possession, and also with
the town clerk of the town in which said real estate lies; but if no
person be in possession, then the officer shall set up notifications
t~ereof in three public places in the town where such real estate 
lies. 
SEc. 17. The return of any officer that the body of the defend­
ant named in any writ of arrest, served by the attachment of goods
and chattels or real estate, cannot .be found within his precinct, or
within this state, shall be prirnfl facie evidence only, of such fact;
which return may be rebutted by other evidence on issue joined
upon such fact, in the snit in which such attachment shall be
made : Provided, that such fact shall be deemed and taken to be
conclusively proved by a judgment for the plaintiff in said suit,
whether the same shall be put in issue therein, or not. 
SEC. 18. Whenever final judgment shall be rendered for the
plaintiff in anv suit in which the writ was served by attachment
of real estate, 
0or
goods and chatteJs, or stock or f..~ares in any in­ 
corporated company, the execution issued on such Jndgf!lent at the
same term such judgment was returned, shall be levied on the 
property so attached, as soon as may be; but if the same shall not
be so levied before the return day thereof, the property attached 
shall be discharged of such attachment. 
SEc._19. In all attachments of real estate, or goods and chattels,
stock or shares in any incorporated company, and in all foreign
attachments, he who first procures any such attachments to be 
made for any just debt or damages, shall be entitled to have his
said debt or damages satisfied before any other demand for which
the same may be attached, or taken by execution, at the suit of
any other person; and all others in order of attachment. 
SEC. 20. The officer who shall make any such attachment, shaU,
in his return, set forth the time of the day when such attachment
was made, to the end that the priority of attachment may be 
known. 
OF THE ATTACHMENT OF PROPERTY OF FOREIGN CORPORA·
TIONS AND OF CORPORATE STOCK. 
SECTION 
I. Property of foreign corporations attach-
able. 
2. How, to be attached.
3 and 4. Notice of, how to be given. 
5. Corporate stock, belonging to foreign 
SECTION 1. When any incorporated company established with·
out this state shall be indebted or liable to any person, the personal
and real estate of such company within this state shall be liable to
be attached and held to answer any just debt, claim or demand. 
SEc. 2. The writ, for such purpose, shall command the officers
to whom it is directed, to attach the goods and chattels or real
estate of suoh corporation, to the amount named in such writ; and
to summon said corporation to appear at the proper court, by leav­
ing a copy of the summons with any known agent of the corpora· 
tion in this state. 
SEc. 3. Upon making such attachment, the officer shall leave an
attested copy of such writ, with the person in possession of ~uch
goods and chattels or real estate, if any person be in possess10n;
and if real estate be attached, he shall also leave an attested copy
with the town clerk of the town in which the real estate is situ· 
ated. 
l'DA.PTEB 18~. 
SKCTION 
SEC. 4. If there be no agent or attorney of such corporation
within this state known to such officer, upon whom such summons
can be served, he shall publish a notification of such attachment
for the space of two weeks, once a week in some newspaper
printed in the town nearest the place where the real or personal
estate may be situated, and state all the facts in his return, to the
end that the court may order further notice if they shall deem the 
sarne necessary. · 
corporations or absent or concealed
persons, attachable. 
6 and 7. Attachment of, bow made.
8. Corporation served with writ' in, bow 
to answer.
9. Saving of corporation's lien from. 
SEc. 5. The stock or shares of any body corporate established
out of this state, and the stock or shares of any rerson who shall 
reside or be absent out of this state or shall concea himself therein,
in any bank, insurance company or other incorporated company
within this state, shall be liable to be attached to answer any just
debt, claim or demand. 
SEC. 6. Upon the back of the writ sued out for the purpose of
such attachment, the plaintiff or his attorney shall direct the officer
who may be charged with the service thereof, to attach the defend­
ant's stock or shares in such incorporated company. 
SEC. 7. The leaving an attested copy of such writ, with a copy
of the plaintiff's direction thereon, if a bank, with the cashier
thereof, if an insurance company, with the president or secretary
thereof, and if any other corporate body with the treasurer thereof
or person executing the duties of treasurer, shall be sufficient to 
attach such defendant's stock or shares in said company, and the
same shall be held to answer the said debt, claim or demand. 
SEc. 8. Whenever any incorporated company as aforesaid shall
be served with a copy of such writ as aforesaid, it shall be the
duty, if a bank, of the cashier thereof, if an insurance company,
of the president or secretary thereof, and if any other corporate
body, of the treasurer thereof or person executing the duties of
treasurer, to render an account, upon oath, to the court to which
said writ shall be returnable, of what stock or shares the defendant
had in said company at the time of the service of such writ, as
aforesaid ; and the said cashier, or president, or secretary, or treas­
urer, or person executing the duties of treasurer as aforesaid, may
be compelled to testify like witnesses in other cases. 
SEC. 9. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to destroy
or impair any lien or claim of any person or body corporate upon
any stock or shares attached under the provisions of this chapter. 
SECTION 1. When any person shall reside or be absent out of
this state, or shall conceal himself therein so that his body cannot 
be arrested, or shall not be liable to arrest by reason of having taken
the poor debtor's oath, or of having obtained his discharge as an
insolvent, and when any incorporated company established out of
this state, shall be indebted or liable to any person, then the ~er·
sonal estate of such person or foreign corporation, lodged or lymg
in the hands of their attorney, agent, factor, trustee, or debtor, shall
be liable to be attached, the plaintiff giving special order therefor
on the back of his writ, to answer any just debt or demand. 
SEC. 2. The serving of any person or body corporate, or any
member of any firm or copartnership, who have such personal estate.
in their hands, with an attested copy of a writ taken out against
such person or foreign corporation, shall be a good service of the 
writ, for the purpose of such attachment; said copy, in case ~f a
corporation, to be left with the officer or person hereinafter reqmred 
to make oath relative to the personal estate designed to be attached
thereby. 
SEC. 3. The person, corporation, firm or copartnership so served
with a copy, shall be obliged to render an account upon oat~, of
what estate they had of the defendant in their hands at the time
such writ was served, if any, or otherwise to make oath that they
had not, directly or indirectly, any such estate in their hands. . 
SF.c. -l. Such oath shall be made before the court to which
such writ shall be brought, or before any justice of the supreme
court, and be filed in the clerk's office in the county where the 
action shall be brought, before the sitting of the court.
SEC, 5. H the oath be made out of court, the plaintiff or his at· 
torney shall be first notified by such justice of the time and place
of taking the same; and in all cases, the person so making oath
shall be subject to examination by either party to the suit. 
SEc. 6. When a body corporate shall be served with a copy .of
a writ as aforesaid, it shall be the duty, if a bank, of the cashier 
thereof, if an insurance company, of the president or secretary
thereof, and if any other corporate body, of the treasurer thereof, 
or person executing the duties of treasurer, to render the accowtt
upon oath aforesaid. 
SEC. 7. If it shall appear by the account or oath of any person
or body corporate or by the account or oath of any member of a~J. 
firm or copartnership served with a copy 'of a writ as aforesat ,
that at the time of the service of said writ, such person, body cor­
porate, firm or copartnership, had any of the personal estat~ of the
def~ndant in their hands, then and in such case, the plainti~, aJ~r
ha~tng rec?vered judgment against such. defendant, may. brmg.lus
action against such garnishee, to recover so much as will satis(Y 
· such judgment with interest and costs, if there shall appear by said 
account to be a sufficiency for the same ; otherwise, for so much 
as shall appear by said account t.o be in his hands. 
SEC. 8. When it shall appear that several garnishees had prop­
erty of the defendant as aforesaid, the plaintiff may sue each sepa­
rately, and recover the amount in his hands, until such plaintiff
receive full payment of his judgment against the original defend­ 
ant, with interest and costs.
SEc. 9. Any garnishee, after final judgment against the defend­ 
ant, may satisfy such judgment or any part thereof to the amount
of the estate attached in his hands, before any suit shall be brought
against him therefor; and such payment shall avail for his dis­
charge as against both plaintiff and defendant, for the amount
thereof. 
SEc. 10. If by the garnishee's oath it appears that the personal
estate in his hands, or in that of the body corporate for which he
acts, belonging to the defendant, did not consist of money, but of
one or more specific articles, it shall be lawful for such garnishee,
after final judgment shall be rendered against the defendant, to sur­
render or deliver to the officer charged with the execution issued
on said judgment, such specific articles, that the same may be
taken thereon. 
SEc. 11. Such surrender or delivery shall be a good discharge
to the garnishee for such articles, as to both plaintiff and defendant
in the action. 
SEC. 12. If any person, body corporate, firm or copartnership, after ·
being served with a copy of any writ against any person or foreign 
corporation as afore~~1id having tendered at the time of such
service or previoufto e itting of the court, two dollars and his 
travelling fees as a ~tness in the supreme court or court of com·
mon pleas, and one dollar and like travelling fees in any other
court, shall neglect or refuse to render an account on oath 9:s afor~­ 
said of what personal estate of the defendant they had m their
han?s at the time of the service of such copy, su~h _garnishee sh~ll
be ~1able to satisfy the judgment that the plaintiff sh3:.ll ob~m 
against the defendant in such writ, to be recovered by special action
on the case. 
SEc. 13. H several garnishees shall neglect or refuse to rend~r ~n.
account upon oath as aforesaid in the same case, then the plaintiff 
shall bring his action against all such garnishees, jointly, and in no
other manner. 
SEc. 14. Any attorney, agent, factor, trustee or debtor, who sh~ll
be served with a copy of a. writ against any defendant as aforesaid, 
sh~ll. have liberty to file an answer to such action and defend the
suit 111 behalf and in the name of the defendant. · 
SEc. 15. If it shall appear by the oath of the person or body c~r­
porate or by the oath of any member of any firm or eopartnership 
as aforesaid, who have been served with a copy of any wnt as
aforesaid, that they had not any of the personal esta~e ?f the de­ 
fendant ill' their bands then such action shall be dismissed, and
the person who shall appear to defend the same, shall recover his 
costs. 
SEC. 16. Every person, body corporate, firm or copartnership,
served with a copy of a writ for attaching the estate of another in
their hands, shall be paid all lawful costs and charges which they
shall be at, in consequence of their being served with such writ of
attachment, by the person who brings the action ; and so much of
said charge as shall be judged reasonable by the court before whom
the cause shall be pending, shall be allowed in the bill of costs. 
SEC. 17. The proceedings in foreign attachment shall be the
same in justices' courts as in the supreme court or court of com·
mon pleas. 
SECTION 1. All actions and appeals shall' be entered in the su­
preme court and court of common pleas, on the first or second days
of the term, and not afterwards, without special leave of the court. 
SEC, 2. Such leave may be granted in case the party whose duty
it was to enter the action or appeal, was prevented from so doing
by accident, mistake or misfortune. 
SEC. ::I. No action or appeal shall be deemed to be entered until the
necessary papers are filed with, and the legal entry paid to the clerk. 
SEc. 4. No summons, writ, declaration, return, process, judgment
or other proceeding in civil causes, in any of the courts, shall be
abated, arrested, quashed or reversed for any defect or want of
form ; but the courts respectively shall proceed and give judgment
according as the right of the cause and matter in law shall appear
unto them, without regarding any imperfections, defects or want of
form in such writ, declaration or other pleadings, return, process,
judgment or proceeding whatsoever. 
SEc. 5. The courts, respectively, shall and may, from time to 
time, amend all and every such imperfections, defects and want of
form, and may, at any time, permit either of the parties to amend
any defect in the process or pleadings, upon such conditions as
said courts, respectively, shall, in their discretion, or by general rule, 
prescribe. ·
SEc. 6. If any writ or process shall be brought against any 
trading or manufacturing company, not incorporated, which shall 
not be served on all the partners, or in which the name of any
partner shall be omitted, the court on motion of any person, party
thereto, may, and in case the same be pleaded shall, issue a sum­
mons to the partner omitted or not served, if within this state ;
said motion or plea being accompanied with an affidavit of the
person making the same. 
8Ec. 7. Such omitted partner, being served with such summons
twenty days at least before trial, shall be deemed to be a party to
the suit, to all intents and purposes, and the writ and decl~ration
shall _be amended accordingly; and such partner may file his plea 
1~ said action at any time within said twenty days, or after that
time, by leave of court, upon cause shown. 
SEc. 8. If it shall be found that the party summoned was ~ot a
partner with the original defendants, the court shall render judg­
~enl against the party summoning him, in favor of such party for
his costs, and in favor of the plaintiff against the original defend­ 
ants for the damages or debts proved, with .costs, u~le:4s so.ch pa~ty
sum~oned was made party on motion of the plaintiff"; in which 
case Judgment shall be rendered in favor of aJl the defendants for
their coats against the plaintiff. 
SEC. 9. H there shall in any case be two or more plaintiffs, or
defendants, and one or more of them shall die, if the cause of
action shall survive to the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, or against
the surviving defendant or defendants, the writ or action shall not
be thereby abated, but such death being suggested upon the record,
the action shall proceed at the suit of the surviving plaintiff or
plaintiffs, or against ~e surviving defendant or defendants. 
8.KOTIOM 
OF PLEADINGS, TENDER AND SET-OFF. 
1. Declaration, when and where to be
filed. 
2. Pleas, when and where to be filed.
3. Of special leave to file picas. 
· 4. Pleas of absent defendants in case of
attachment of real estate, or of foreign 
attachment, when to be filed.
5. Of double pleas and replications. 
6. Of plea of payment in debt on bond,
or in debt or scire faclu on judg- 
ment. · 
~RAPTEB 18'1. 
SECTION 
7. Of plea of payment of debt on bond
after day. 
8. Of disclaimer and tender in court, and
of amends. 
9. Effect of receipt of tender in part sat·
isfaction only. 
10. Of filing account of particulars.
11. Of filing account in set-off.
12. Of set-off'. 
13. Statement of demands in set-off, when 
to be filed, and of judgment in case
of set-off. 
SECTION 1. In all civil causes or suits at law originally brought
· in the supreme court or court of common pleas, except in a special 
court of common pleas, the plaintiff shall declare·therein and file
· his declaration in the clerk's office of the court, twelve days before 
the sitting of the court, to which the writ in such cause or suit is
returnable. 
SEC. 2. The defendant shall file his plea or answer with the
clerk, six days before the sitting of the court, or judgment shall
pass against him as for a default. 
SEC. 3. The court may, for cause shown, permit the defenda~t,
· on the first or second day of the term, to file his plea or answ~r in 
-court, upon such terms and conditions as the court may prescribe- 
SEC, 4. In case any action commenced by attachment of real 
· estate or by foreign attachment shall not be answered, and the
defendant shall not return into this state before the return day of
the writ, the court shall continue the action one term, and the de­
fendant shall have a right to answer the same six days previous to
the term to which such action shall be continued, or may be per·
!°'it~ed to answer the same on the first or second day of said tenn,
m like manner as is provided in the next preceding section . 
• SEc. 5 ", It shall and may be lawful for any defendant in any ac­
tion or suit, and for any plaintiff in replevin, in any court or before 
any justice of the peace, with· leave of such court or justice, to
plead as many several matters thereto as he shall think necessary
to his defence; and, with like leave, any plaintiff may reply as
many several matters t.o the defendant's plea or pleas as be shall
think necessary. . 
SEC. 6. When any action of debt shall be brought upon any
bond without condition, or when an action of debt or writ of scire
facias shall be brought on any judgment, if the defendant hath
paid the money due upon such bond or judgment, such payment
shall and may be pleaded in bar of such action or suit. 
SEC. 7. When any action of debt shall be brought upon any
bond which has a condition or defeasance t.o make void the same
upon the payment of a less sum at a day or place certain, if the
obligor, his heirs, executors or administrators, have, beforr the ac­
tion brought, paid to the obligee, his executors or administrators,
the principal and interest due by the defeasanee or condition of
such bond, though such payment was not made strictly according
to the condition or defeasance, yet it shall and may, nevertheless,
be pleaded in bar of such action ; and shall be as effectual a bar
thereof as if the money had been paid at the day and place, ac­
cording to the condition or defeasance, and had been so pleaded. 
SEc. 8. The defendant in every action of debt, action of cove­
nant, and in every action on the case grounded on an express or
implied contract, in every action of trespass for breaking and en·
tering the plaintiff's close, wherein the defendant shall, in his plea,
disclaim all right, title and interest in and to the said close, and in
every action of trespass or trespass on the case for any injury done
to personal property, or of trover, that may be pending before any
court or before any justice of the peace, shall have right t.o make
and plead a tender ; or may have leave to bring into court the
money which he shall acknowledge to be due on such contract or
sufficient amends for such trespass or injury, together with the
plaintiff's lawful costs expended up to the time of the tender ma_de
or pleaded, or the bringing of the money into court ; and the plain­
tiff shall have a right to take the same in fu]l or in part satisfaction 
of the demand made in such suit. 
SEc. 9. If the plaintiff, in either of the above cases, shall r~ceive
the same in part satisfaction only, and shall proceed further m the
same suit, and the court or jury or justice of the peace, who shall
finaHy assess the damages in such case, shall determine that no
more was due on the demand made in such suit than was tendered
or brought into court as aforesaid, at the time the same was ten­
dered or brought in, the plaintiff shall not recover costs, but shall
be obliged to pay the defendant his costs, after said tender or after 
the money was brought into court as aforesaid, as the case 'may be. 
SBC. 10. When an action shall be brought to reco~er a debt ~ue
on any book account, the plaintiff shall annex to his declaration 
on filing the same, an account of particulars. . . 
SEc. 11. The defendant in such case, and also m all actions on
an account stated by the parties, a quantum meruit, quant!-lm
valebat, or for goods sold, or for services done at an agreed pnce, 
may plead the general issue and may file any account he hath
with his said plea; and the court or jury who shall assess the
damages in such case shall determine the balance due to either
party; and the party in whose favor the balance shall be found
shall recover judgment therefor, together with his costs, and shall 
have execution accordingly. 
SEc. 12. If any defendant shall have a demand on the plaintiff
for any sum liquidated, or for one which may be ascertained by
calculation, and which is founded on a judgment., or upon an ac­
count or upon any contract, whether express or implied, and
whether with or without a seal, and which existed at the time of 
the commencement of the action and then belonged to the defend­
ant in his own right, and for which he might maintain a seit in 
his own vame, he may set off the same in any action founded upon
any demand which could itself be set off. 
SEc. 13. To entitle the defendant to a set-off, he shall file a
statement of his demands in court, or in the clerk's office, at the
term in which the action is entered, on or before the second day
of said term, or within such further time as the court shall allow,
and shall set forth his demands with as much certainty as would
be required in a declaration; and the court in which the action
may be pending may render judgment for the defendant for the
balance due to him with costs. 
SECTION 
~BAPTER 186. 
1. Whnt interest in euit disqualifies judge
or justice. 
2. Bills and petitions in equity, where
may be heard and decided. 
3. Of transfer of matters in equity. 
4. Hearings before single judge, where to 
be had.
5. PrO( .. 'Ccdings in case of, how to be eer- 
OF TRIALS. 
SECTION 
tified, and papers where to be re­ 
turned.
6. Of right to become nonsuit, or to dis· 
continue. 
7. Damages in case of judgment by de­
fault, discontinuance. submission or
demurrer, how to ho assessed. 
8. Of right to waive jury trial, and be
tried by court. 
SECTION 1. No judge of any court, or justice of the peace, shall
sit in judgment in any cause in the event of which he is inter·
ested : Provided, that residence and payment of taxes in any town,
or an interest in common with all the inhabitants of such town
shall not exclude a judge or justice from sitting in any cause 1? 
which such town is a party, or i11 which the same or the inhabi­
tants of the same are interested. 
SEC. 2. Bills and petitions in equity commenced in one county,
may be heard and decided in any other county, at the discretion of 
the supreme court, if in session, and in case of motions, at the
discretion of a single justice in vacation; and said court shall
have po\\~er to make all such rules and orders as may, in their opin­
ion, be necessary or expedient to carry this provision into full
effect. 
SEc. 3. By consent of all parties, or their counsel, indorsed on
the papers, in any matter in equity pending before said court, the
same may be transferred to, and heard and determined in any 
other county, at the discretion of the court; and after such trans­
fer, such matter may, in all respects, be proceeded with 88 if orig­
inally commenced in the county to which the same shall have
been transferred, or by like consent, sent back in any stage, to the
county in which such matter originated. • 
SEC, 4. In all cases in which power is conferred on a single jus­
tice of the supreme court to hear and determine on any matter,
such hearing shall be, unless otherwise ordered by the justice, in
the office of the clerk of the court in the county in which the same.
shall be heard. 
SEc. 5. Said justice shall certify his proceedings to the clerk of
the court in the county in which the matter or cause shall be pend·
ing, and return to him the original papers in such matter or cause, 
to be by him kept on tile in his office.
SEc. 6. The plaintiff or appellant in any cause shall not have a 
right to become nonsuit or to discontinue the same, in the supreme
court, after the same shall be submitted to the decision of the
jury ; but the· cause shall, in the discretion of the court, proceed,
and the verdict of the jury be taken therein, whether the plaintiff
or appellant shall appear or not. 
SEc. 7. In all cases, in the supreme court and court of common
pleas, except when otherwise provided, if judgment be rendered on
default, discontinuance, submission or demurrer, damages shall be
assessed by the court, with or without the intervention of a jury, 
at the discretion of the court. 
SEc. 8. In all actions or suits, which shall be pending before any
court in this state, the parties therein may waive the right of trial
by jury ; and in such case the court shall hear, try and determine
the said case, both as to the law and as to the facts, and render
judgment therein ; any law, rule or usage to the contrary notwith­
standing. 
SECTION 1. In a1l cases relating to the realty, either party may
have the jury to view the place in question, if the court shall be of 
opinion that such view is necessary. 
Views. 
SEC. 2. To entitle himself to such view, the party moving there­
for shall advance such reasonable sum of money to the sheriff to
defray the expenses of the jury on such view, as the court s~1all
order; and the amount of such expenses shall be taxed agamst
the adverse party, if he who advanced the same shall recover costs
in the suit. 
Witnesses. 
SEC. 3. The form of a writ of summons to-a witness shall be 
substantially as follows : -
so. To of greeting: - 
You are hereby required, in the name of the state of Rhode
Island and Providence Plantations, to make your appearance be·
fore the court next to be holden at within and
for our county of on the Monday of to give evi· 
deuce of what you know relating to an action or plea of then
and there to be heard and tried, betwixt plaintiff, and 
defendant. Hereof fail not, as you will answer your default un­
der the penalty of the law, in that behalf made and provided. 
Dated at the day of in the year 
SEc. 4. Clerks of courts may issue writs of summons to wit­
nesses in all cases pending in such courts. 
SEc. 5. Auditors, referees, arbitrators, masters in chancery and 
Clerk. 
commissioners may issue writs of summons to witnesses in all
cases and matters pending before them respectively .. 
SEC. 6. A summons to a witness shall be served by reading the
same to him. 
SEc. 7. Every witness who shall be duly served with a sum­
mons, in behalf of any party to a suit or proceeding, civil or
crimingl, and shall have his lawful fees tendered to him for his
travel from his place of abode to the place at which he shall be
summoned to attend, and for one day's attendance, shall be
obliged to attend accordingly. 
SBC. 8. A witness summoned in behalf of the state shall have
no right to have his fees paid or tendered to him before he shall
be bound to obey the same. 
SEc. 9. Any witness who does not appear according to the
tenor of such summons, having no reasonable Jet or hinderance to · 
the contrary, shall be liable to the action of the aggrieved party
for all damages sustained in consequence of such default. 
SEC. 10. The court, magistrate or tribunal before which any
witness is summoned to appear, shall have power, by writ of at·
tachment, to bring any witness duly summoned to appear: to ap·
pear before them, and to fine him, not exceeding twenty dollars,
and to order him to pay the costs of such attachment, and to be
committed to prison until such fine and costs be paid. 
SEc. 11. Whenever any witness duly summoned to appear be­
fore the grand jury, or on any indictment, at any term of the
supreme court or court of common pleas, shall neglect to appear
according to the tenor of such summons, such court may order a
writ of attachment to issue against him, returnable either at said
term or the next term of the same court; and may direct the same
to each and all sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, town sergeants and con­
stable, within the state. 
SEc. 12. If the court from which such writ of attachment is­
sues shall not be in session at the time of the service of such writ,
the officer charged with the service thereof shall commit such wit­ 
~ess t~ jail, either in the county from which the writ m~y issue or 
J~ which such witness may be ; there to be kept, until he shall
give recognizance before some magistrate of the same county,
with sufficient surety, in the sum of one hundred dollars, to ap·
pear before said court on the second day of the next term thereof,
which recognizance shall be returned by said magistrate unto the 
clerk of said court. 
SEc. 13. Such witness may give such recognizance while in cus­
tody of the officer, before he is committed to jail, and thereupon
the officer shall discharge him from custody. 
SEc. 14. Every witness, previous to his obtaining any fees, :X· 
cept the amount which in certain cases must be tendered to him
before he can be compelled to attend, shall give a certificate to the
c~erk of the court or justice of the peace wherein or before whom
his attendance shall be given, certifying the number of days he
shall have attended and the number of miles he shall have trav­
elled, in pursuance ~f a summons issued for that purpose, which 
certificate shall be subject to the examination of the court or jus­
tice, and such allowance shall be made thereon as shall be lawfully
due. 
Depositions. 
SEC. 15. It shall be lawful for any justice of the suprem~nut.,
justice of the peace or public notary, to take the deposition of any
witness to be used in the trial of any civil suit or action in which
he is not interested, nor of counsel nor the attorney of either party, 
and which shall then be commenced or pending in this state or in 
any other state or government. 
SEC. 16. It shall be the duty of every magistrate, and officer,
previous to the taking of any deposition as aforesaid within this
state, to cause the adverse party, if residing in this state, or within
one hundred miles of the place of caption, or in case of his ab­
sence, his attorney known to be such, to be notified of the time
and place appointed for taking the same, that he may attend and
put interrogatories to the deponent if he thinks fit. 
SEC. 17. In the taking of all depositions without the limits ~f
this state, it shall be the duty of the party causing such deposi­
tions to be taken, to notify the adverse party or bis known attorney
of the time and place appointed for taking the same ; and such
notification, issued by any justice or notary in this state, shall. be
served in the manner hereinbefore provided such reasonable time
before the taking of such depositions, as will give the adverse
party a full opportunity to be present in person, or by attorney, and
put interrogatories to the deponent if he think fit. 
SEC. 18. The notification shall be issued by the magistrate,
officer or commissioner who shall take such deposition, and shall
be directed to any proper officer or to any impartial and disinter·
ested person ; and in case of depositions taken within this state
shall be served not less than twenty-four hours, before the time of
taking such deposition. 
SKc. 19. The officer or other person charged as aforesaid with
such notification, shall serve the same by reading it to the party 
to be cited, if to be found, and if not to be found, by leaving a
copy thereof at his usual place of abode ; and shall in his return
state the hour of the day when the service was made; and when
such service shall be made by any person other than a sworn
officer, he shall verify the same under oath before some justice or 
notary.
. 8Ec. 20: Every person before deposing shall be carefully exam· 
med,_ cautioned and sworn to testify the truth, the whole truth, a~d
nothrng but the truth. He shall subscribe the testimony by him
given after the same shall be reduced to writing, which s_hall be 
done only by the magistrate, officer or commissioner taking the
deposition, or by the deponent in his presence. . 
SEc. 21. The deposition so taken shall be retained by such JU~· 
tice, notary or commissioner, until he deliver the same with ~ts 
own hand to the court for which it is taken, or shall, together with 
a certificate of its having been duly taken, be by said justice, no·
tary or commissioner, sealed up and directed to such court, and
remain so sealed until opened in court; and any person may be
compelled to appear and depose as aforesaid within this state, in
the same manner as to appear and testify in court. 
SEC, 22. The deposition of any person taken pursuant to this
chapter, shall be used as evidence in the trial of any cause in
which it shall have been taken to be used; and if the party that
took the same shall neglect to produce or use it, the adverse party
may use in such trial the original, or a copy of such deposition,
certified by the magistrate before whom it was taken, with the
same effect as if the original deposition had been produced and
used by the party taking the same. 
8Ec. 2::J. If any witness shall be induced to go out of this state
in order that his deposition may be taken without the adverse
party's having due notice, the deposition of such witness taken by
such undue means, shall not be used or admitted as evidence in
any court in this state. 
SEc. 24. Depositiena taken without this state to be used in the
trial of any cause pending in any court in this state, shall be re­
ceived as evidence: Provided, such depositions shall be taken with
the formalities required by the law of the state or country in which
the same shall have been.tsken, or before some commissioner ap·
pointed by the governor, or by some judge, chancellor or other civil
magistrate of such state or country, in conformity to the provisions 
of this chapter. 
SEc. 25. The supreme court, or court of common pleas may, on
the motion of either party in any civil suit pending therein, grant
a commission t.o take depositions according to common usage,
when it may be necessary to prevent a failure or delay of justice. 
Sso, 26. No deposition taken within one hundred miles of the
place of trial shall be used on the trial of any cause in any court
in this state, which shall have been taken during the sitting of the
court before which the cause may be pending, unless the same
shall have been taken by order of such court. 
SEC, 27. Depositions may be taken in this state, to be used on .
the trial of any cause pending in any other state or government, by
a~y person residing in this state, to whom a comc:n~ssion shall be 
directed and sent by such court, with such formalities as shall be
prescribed in such commission, or as are prescribed in this chapter. 
Depositions in perpetuam rei memoriam. 
·SBc. 28. Any justice of the supreme court, or master in chan­ 
cery, as well before as after the commencement of any civil suit or 
action, on application, shall be authorized to take depositions in
perpetuam rei memoriam; which depositions in case of the death
of any deponent, his becoming non comprn~ mentis, his_ absen~e
from this state or inability to attend, may be used ad evidence m
any court in this state against any person who shall have had due 
notice of the taking of such deposition, his heirs, executors, ad·
ministrators or assigns, 
SEC, 29. The same formalities shall be observed in taking depo­
sitions in perpetuam rei memoriam, as in taking other depositions. 
SEC. 30. The justice or master taking such deposition, shall seal
up and direct the same to the clerk of the supreme court. in the
county in which some one of the persons notified of the taking of
the same shall reside; which clerk on receiving such deposition so
directed and sealed up, upon payment of legal fees for recording
as in other cases, shall open and record the same, and the cer­
tificate of the caption thereof, in a book to be specially kept for
that purpose ; noting on said deposition the time when he re·
ceived it and the page of the book in which it is recorded; after
which he shall deliver the original deposition to the party who
took it; and no such deposition, not so recorded, shall be received
as evidence in any court in this state, unless the same shall be
opened in such court. 
Certain provisions respecting evidence.
SEC. 31. In all equity causes the proof shall be by deposition, 
according to the course of courts of chancery, unlees otherwise 
ordered by the supreme ceurt in session or by a justice thereof in 
vacation.
SEC. 32. Depositions taken in conformity to the provisions of 
this chapter, may be used on the trial of any bastardy case before 
any court or magistrate. 
SEC. 33. No person, offered as a witness, shall be excluded from
giving evidence either in person or by deposition in any civil pro­
ceeding in any court, or before any person having authority to
receive evidence, by reason of incapacity from interest, but every
person so offered shall be admitted to give evidence, notwithstand·
ing he may have an interest in the matter in question. . 
SEC, 34. Parties to. any civil suit or proceeding at law or 1.n
equity, or persons for whose benefit any such suit or proceeding is 
brought or defended, may testify in open court, and may be cof!l•
pelled to testify or depose in such suit or proceeding, as other wit­ 
nesses : Provided, that when an original party to the contract or
cause of action is dead, or when an executor or administrator is _a
party to the suit, the other party may be called as a witness by his 
opponent, but shall not be admitted to testify upon his own offer,
or upon the call of his co-plaintiff or co-defendant, otherwise than
now by law allowed, unless a nominal party merely. 
SEc. 35. Nothing in the preceding two sections shall render the
husband or wife, during marriage or after divorce, competent to 
testify for or against each other, otherwise than now by law
allowed ; nor be applicable to the attesting witnesses of any la.et
will or codicil. 
SBC. 36. In all courts of law, and before all tribunals, a copy of
any newspaper or extract of any newspaper contained in either of 
the bound volumes deposited with the Rhode Island Historical
Society for the northern district, or with its cabinet keeper, under
the provisions of chapter three, sections seven and eight, certified
by the said cabinet keeper, shall be of equal value with the paper
itself; and said cabinet keeper shall be entitled to the same fees
for copies and certificates allowed by law therefor to town clerks. 
OF REFEREES, AUDITORS AND MASTERS IN CHANCERY. 
SECTION 
1. Of rule for reference of suit, in su­
preme court and court of common 
picas. 
2. Of rule, where no suit. 
3. Agreement of parties as to, conclusive.
4. Power to discharge or recommit rule.
~ and 6. Of petition for rule in vacation, 
and proceedings on, and report. 
7. Of referring case before justice of the
peace. 
SECTION 1. The supreme court and court of common pleas may
permit the parties in any suit pending in said courts respectively, 
to enter into a role of such court to refer such suit to the decision
of one or more referees, to be agreed upon by the parties ; and also 
to refer in the same rule, any other actions or causes of action that
may subsist between them, either jointly or severally, generally or 
specially. 
SEc. 2. Though no suit be brought, said courts shall have power
to permit any persons who may have causes of action subsisting
between them, to enter a rule of said court, to refer the same
to a decision of a referee or referees as aforesaid, generally or 
specially. 
£DAPTEB 188. J JI. 6 60. 
8Ec. 3. The parties to any role may agree upon the time and
manner of making report and of issuing execution on the judg­
ment that may be rendered thereon, conforming to law; and every
such agreement, made in manner aforesaid, shall be conclusive
upon the parties ; and the court shall render judgment upon the
report of the referees conformable thereto, and issue execution
accordingly. 
S~c. 4. The court may, at any time, in their ~iscretion, or on
motion of either party discharge a rule or recommit a rule and re­
port to the same refor:es · but a rule shall remain in full force until
so discharged, and shall' be so continued from term to term until 
report shall be made thereon. 
SBCTI01' 
8. Of referee's oath.
9. Power of referees and arbitrators to 
administer oaths and summon wit.­
nesses. 
10. Auditors, when to be appointed. 
11. Masters in chancery, bow many and
by whom appointed. 
12. Power of mastera in chancery, auditors
and referees to issue writa of protec­
tion. 
SEc. 5. Any persons having any action or cause of action sub· 
sisting between them, may file with the clerk of the supreme court
or court of common pleas in the county where either or all of them
reside, in the vacation of the said courts, a petition, setting
forth said facts, and that they have mutually agreed to refer the
same to the decision of certain persons named therein as referees;
whereupon the clerk shall enter said petition on the docket of the
business of said court for the next term ; make out a writ to said
referees, annex thereto or embody therein said petition, which shall
authorize them to hear and determine said dispute, with the same
powers, in the same manner and with the same effect as though
said petition had been filed in open court. 
SEC. 6. The report of referees made under a petition and rule
entered in vacation, shall be made to the next or some other term
of the court in which the same are entered : and the court shall
have the same power over a petition and rule so entered, as if en·
tered in open court. 
SEC. 7. The parties to any suit that may be pending before any
justice of the peace shall have a right to enter into a rule to refer
the same, and to include therein any other demands between them,
not exceeding in the whole on either side, the amount of twenty
dollars, and in which the title to real estate shall not be concerned;
and the justice shall have like power, and similar proceedings shall
be had thereon, as are given and prescribed in this chapter respect·
ing rules that may be entered in the supreme court and court of
common pleas. 
SEC. 8. Each referee, before he proceeds to the business of the
reference, shall take an oath faithfully and impartially to hear and
examine the cause, and make a true and just report, according to
the best of his skill and understanding; which oath may be taken
before any judge of any court of record, or any justice of the peace
or public notary. 
SEC. 9. Referees and arbitrators shall have power to administer
oaths to all witnesses in any matter tried before them, and shall
also have power to compel the attendance of witnesses before them,
in the same manner and by a similar process as courts of record
are authorized to compel the attendance of witnesses; and any 
summons for witnesses may be issued and signed by any one ref·
eree or arbitrator, or by the clerk of the court from which the rule 
is issued. 
SEc. 10. In all actions relative to partnerships and all other joint
accounts, and in all actions involving matters of book account, the
supreme court and court of common pleas are authorized a~d em·
powered upon motion of either party, to appoint an auditor or
auditors, who shall have the same powers, and be sworn, and pro­
ceed in the same manner as auditors in a proper action of account;
and the court upon the reception and allowance of the rePorl
of the auditor or auditors, shall render judgment in pursuance 
thereto. 
SEc. 11. The supreme court shall appoint in each county one or
more standing masters in chancery, to hold office during the pleas­
ure of the court; and said court shall have power to make all such 
mies and orders with regard to proceedings by and before such
masters, their reports, and exceptions to, and hearings on the same,
as to them shall seem expedient. 
SEc. 12. Masters in chancery, auditors and referees, duly ap­
pointed, shall have the same power to issue writs of protection to
parties and witnesses in matters pending before them, as is pos­
sessed by the courts from which they derive their appointment;
and the signing of such writs by any one master, auditor or referee,
who has been duly sworn, shall be sufficient. 
OF JUDGMENTS, AND OF INTEREST ON JUDGMENTS, VERDICTS,
AW ARDS AND REPORTS. 
SECTION 
1. J udgrnent of court, when to be entered,
and time of, how noted. 
2. In actions for breach of bond or for
penalty of agreement, judgment how 
to be entered.
3, 4 and 5. Execution in such case, for I 
how much, and how to issue.
6. Action for covenant broken in such 
case saved. 
~DAPTER 189. 
SECTION 
7. Judgment in ejectment on mortgage,
what. 
8. Of set-off of judgments.
9. Of interest on judgments.
10. Of interest on verdict!', awards and re­ 
ports of masters in chancery and an­
ditors. 
SECTION 1. Every judgment shall be entered as of the last day
of the term in which it is rendered, unless there be an express
order of the court for the entry thereof on some other day;
in which case the day shall be noted by the clerk on his docket. 
SEc. 2. In all actions brought for the breach of the condition of
a bond, or to recover a penalty for the non-performance of any
covenant, contract or agreement, when it shall appear by verdict,
default, submission or otherwise, that the condition is broken or
the penalty forfeited, judgment shall be entered in the common
form for the penal sum, but no execution shall issue thereon, ex­ 
cept as is provided in the two following sections. 
SEc. 3. The court shall award an execution in such case for so
much of the penal sum as shall then be due and payable in equity
and good conscience for the breach of the condition, or other non­
performance of the contract, which sum shall be ascertained an~
determined by the court, unless either party shall. move to have it
assessed by a jury, or unless the court shall think it proper to have
the question so decided; in which case the sum so due shall be
assessed by a jury. 
SEc. 4. If any further sum shall afterwards become due ~n .such
bond or other contract, the plaintiff, or his executor or administra- 
tor, may have a scire facias on the judgment from the court in
which it was rendered, against the original defendant, or his
executors, administrators, heirs, devisees or assigns, as the case
may be, suggesting such further breaches of the contract as shall
have occurred, and summoning the adverse party to show cause
why execution should not be awarded upon the judgment for the
damages caused by such f urtber breaches. 
SEC. 6. The sum due in such suit shall be assessed and deter·
mined in the same manner as in the original suit, and execution
shall be awarded accordingly; and the like proceedings may be re·
peated upon occasion of any further breaches of the same contract,
as often as they shall occur, until the whole of the penalty is ex·
hausted. · 
SEC. 6. Nothing herein contained shall prevent any person from
bringing an action for the breach of any covenant. or other contract,
instead of suing for the penalty by which the performance of the
covenant or contract may have been secured. 
SEC. 7. In every action of ejectment or trespass and ejectment
for possession of any real estate mortgaged, in which the defend·
ant by his plea shall aver a right of redemption in himself or in
the person under whom he claims, which averment shall not be
traversed by the plaintiff, or if traversed shall be found true, the
court before which the same shall be pending shall, by themselves
or by one or more judicious and disinterested men, by them ap·
pointed, ascertain, according to the rules of equity, the just sum
due on such mortgage ; and shall thereupon render a conditional
judgment, that if the mortgagor, his heirs, executors, administra·
tors or assigns, shall pay unto the plaintiff in such action, or de·
posit in the clerk's office for him, the sum adjudged due as afore·
said, within two months from the time of entering up judgment,
with interest, then the mortgage or deed operating as such, sh~l
be void and discharged, otherwise that the plaintiff shall have his
writ of possession. 
SEC, 8. Whenever any court shall, at the same term, render
final judgment for debts or damages in two or more personal ac­
tions, in which the parties shall be reversed and shall sue and be
sued in the same right and capacity, such court shall set off the
deb~ or damages recovered in such judgments, and shall is~ue ex·
ecution for the balance only, in favor of the party to whom it shall
be due, with costs, if costs were recovered, and for costs only, if no
bal~nce upon such set-off be left; and a separate execution shall
be issued in favor of the other party for costs, if costs were recov­ 
ered by him. 
SEC. 9. Every judgment for debt or damages to the amount of
twenty dollars or upwards shall draw interest on such debt or
damages, from the time of its rendition to the time of its discharg:e, 
SEC. 10. Verdicts, awards of referees, and reports of masters m
chancery, or of auditors ascertaining amounts of twenty dollars or
~pwar~s due from party to party by way of debt or damagee shall,
if, and m so far as confirmed by judgment or decree, draw mterest
on such debt or damages, if of the amount of twenty dollars or 
upwards ; if a verdict, from the time the same is rendered, and if 
an award or report, from the time the same is dated or made up: 
Provided, there be nothing in the verdict, award or report to the
contrary thereof, or plainly inconsistent therewith. 
OF COSTS, DOUBLE COSTS AND DOUBLE INTEREST, AND OF TAX­
ATION OF COSTS. 
SECTION 
1. In general, prevailing party recovers. 
2. Of costs in actions of partition. 
3. Of surveyor's fees, &c. 
4. Of costs, in actions for slander, mali­ 
cious prosecution, and usault and
battery. 
5. In actions of assumpsit, trespess and
case, when appealed. 
6. In cases triable before single justice in
vacation. 
7. In case of discontinuance by plaintiff. 
8. In actions of trespass or ejectment
against two or more, and discontinu­
ance as to, or judgment in favor of,
one. 
SECTION 1. In civil causes at law, the party prevailing shall
recover costs, except where otherwise specially provided. 
SEC. 2. In all actions of partition, the court before which the
same may be pending, may adjudge and determine as to them
shall appear equitable and just, relative to the apportionment of
costs among the parties, plaintiff and defendant, by dividing the
same equally or subjecting either party to the payment of the 
whole or any part thereof. 
SEC. 3. The supreme court and court of common pleas shall
have power to divide or apportion between the parties in a suit
pending, the fees of surveyors and other persons performing ser- 
vices therein by direction of the court. . 
SEc. 4. In all actions of the case for slanderous words or mah·
cious prosecution, and in all actions for trespass for assault and
battery or imprisonment, that shall be commenced in the supreme
court or court of common pleas, if the court or Jury who shall finally
assess the damages in such case, shall assess the same at a less sum
than seven dollars, the plaintiff in such case, shall recover no more 
costs than damages. 
£BAPTER 190. «ss. 4 'I .J · 
SECTION 
9. Travel and attendance, how taxed in
ease of partners. 
10. In actions on promissory note as­
signed, costs, how taxed. 
11. Witness's fees bow tooted, if no certi­ 
ficate. 
12. Double costs, when may be given
against appellant from judgment on
bond, note or bill of exchange. 
13. When, in case of new trial, of course. 
14. Costs, by whom taxed,
15. Disallowancc of items of, when made.
16. Revision of costs in court of common 
pleas, on appeal, in supreme court. 
SEc. 5. In all actions of assumpeit, trespass or trespass on ~he
?ase in which judgment is rendered on appeal, the court rendering
Judgment may award costs for or against the plaintiff or defendant, 
or for neither, in their discretion, according to the circumstances of
the case. 
SEc. 6. In all cases in which power is conferred upon a single
justice of the supreme court to hear and determine any matter in
vacation, said justice may, in his discretion, award costs to either
or neither party thereto, or divide the same, in any proportion be­ 
tween the parties ; said costs to be taxed by the clerk, allowed by
the justice, and collected by execution, returnable to the next term 
of said court in the county.
SEC. 7. If the plaintiff in any case shall file his declaration in 
either of the clerk's offices of the supreme court or court of common
pleas, as is by law provided, and shall afterwards withdraw or dis·
continue his suit before the sitting of the court, but after answer
filed, the defendant in such case shall recover his costs. 
SEc. 8. When several persons shall be made defendants in an
action of trespass or ejectment, and the same shall be discontinued
as to any one or more of said defendants; or if upon the trial
thereof, any one or more of them shall be acquitted by verdict, or
upon a demurrer, every defendant so discharged or acquitted, shall
have and recover his costs. 
SEC, 9. Tn all civil actions brought by or against a firm, company
or copartnership, and where there is a joint cause of action, or joint
defence, costs for travel and attendance of one only of the parties
recovering judgment shall be taxed. 
SEc. 10. In all actions on promissory notes in the name of the
assignee or indorsee of the note against the original promisor, no
more costs shall be taxed than would by law be taxable if such
action had been brought in the name of the payee of the note. 
SEa. 11. Unless the certificate of a witness, for his attendance
and travel, be filed with the clerk of a court or justice of the peace
rendering judgmeut, within four days after the rendition of judg­
ment in the cause in which he shall have attended, or been sum·
moned, no more fees shall be taxed in favor of the party procuring
such witness than his travel, and one day's attendance. 
~Ee. 12. The appellee, in any case appealed from the court of
comn.wn pleas to the supreme court brought upon any bon~ or 
promissory note for money, or upon any bill of exchange agamst
the acceptor thereof, whether interest be payable thereon or not,
who shall recover in the supreme court, shall recover double costs
in said court, and double interest on the debt from the day of the
judgment of the court of common pleas appealed from, to the
time of the final trial in the supreme court : Provided, that if the
supreme court on such final trial shall be satisfied that the appel­
lant had reasonable ground of defence, and that such appeal was
not solely for delay, they shall allow only single interest from the
day of the judgment of the court of common pleas appealed from,
to the time of such final trial, with single costs. . 
SEC. 13. If in any action for such cause originally brought U1 
the supreme court, a verdict be recovered by the plaintiff, and a
motion for a new trial be filed therein by the defendant and al­ 
lowed as of course, and judgment be afterwards rendered in favor 
of the plaintiff upon verdict, by default or on submission, the de­
fendant may, in the discretion of the court, be adjudged to pay
double costs and double interest on the debt accruing or taxable
after the filing of such written motion. 
SEC. 14. All bills of costs shall be taxed by the clerks of the
respective courts, and shall be examined and allowed by one of the 
justices thereof; except that in justices' courts they shall be taxed
and allowed by the justice who signed the original writ, except as
provided in chapter one hundred and sixty-eight, section seven­ 
teen. 
SEC. 15. The justice of any court who shall examine and allow
any bill of cost shall strike out and disallow any sum that may be
taxed or demanded for the expense of any witness or any evidence
whatsoever that shall appear to such justice overcharged, frivolous
or not material to the issue of the cause ; and no costs shall be
allowed for any written evidence unless the fees be. noted thereon
or certified by the officer who issued or made out the same. 
SEc. 16. Costs taxed in the court of common pleas may be re­
vised, in case of appeal to the supreme court, in the taxation of
costs there. 
OF APPEALS IN CIVIL CASES AT COMMON LAW, AND OF NEG­
LECT TO PROSECUTE THE SAME. 
SECTION 
1. Appeal from justice's court to court of
common picas in civil action, how 
taken.
2. From the court of common pleas to 
the supreme court, when to be taken 
by defendant.
3. By plaintiff', when. 
CHA.PTER 191. 64~. 6 J~. 
•· Appeals from court of common pleas
to supreme court, how taken. 
5. Costs to be paid down, on appeal from 
SECTION 
judgment on bond, promissory note
and bill of exchange. 
6. Reasons of appeal and copy of case,
when t.o he filed for an appeal. 
'i. or special leave to file reasons of
appeal. 
8 . .Appeal, how to be tried.
9 and 10. or proceedings, in case of neg­ 
lect to enter appeal. 
SECTION 1. Any party aggrieved by the judgment of any justice
of the peace rendered in any civil action, may appeal therefrom to
the next term of the court of common pleas to be holden in the 
sa.m~ county, for a final hearing of said ac.tion : Provided, he shall,
"'.1thm five days after rendition of such Judgment, ~ay costs and
give h?nd in said justice's court. to the other party, ~n a sum not 
exceedmg fifty dollars, with sufficient surety or sureties, to prose·
cute such appeal with effect, or in default to pay costs. 
SEc. 2. Any party defendant aggrieved by the jud.gment of ~he
court of common pleas, in any civil action bringing into question 
the title to real estate, or any right, easement or interest therein, or
in which the debt or damages or value of the property recovered
shall amount to the sum of one hundred dollars or upwards, may
appeal to the supreme court at the term thereof next to be holden
in the same county after the expiration of five days from the rising
of the court of common pleas at said term. 
SEc. 3. Any party plaintiff thus aggrieved by the judgment of
the court of common pleas, in any civil action bringing into ques·
tion the title to real estate, or any right, easement or interest there·
in, or in which the debt or damages or value of property claimed
shall amount to the sum of one hundred dollars or upwards, may,
in like manner, appeal from any judgment rendered therein: Pro­ 
vided, that if upon such appeal he shall not recover in the supreme
court the sum of one hundred dollars or upwards, or property to
the value of one hundred dollars or upwards, exclusive of costs,
he shall recover no costs in such action, unless the title to real
estate, or to some right, easement or interest therein be brought in
question in such action. 
SEc. 4. In case of such appeal, and as the condition thereof, the
appellant shall give bond in the clerk's office of the court of com· 
mon pleas appealed from, in the sum of one hundred dollars,
within five days after the rising of said court at the term in which
judgment therein shall have been rendered against him, to prose­
cute his appeal with effect, and in default thereof to pay costs. 
SEC. 5. If judgment be rendered upon any bond for money or
upo!1 any promissory note for money, or upon any bill of exchange
against the acceptor thereof, whether interest be expressed to be
payable in the same or not, the appellant shall pay down the costs
of the court of common pleas, and give bond to prosecute the
appeal so made. 
SEC. 6. The appellant shall, in all cases, file his reasons of ap·
peal in the clerk's office of the court appealed to, at least ten d~y~ 
before the sitting of such court; and shall, at the time of entering
his appeal, file in the same office a certified copy of the whole 
case. 
SEc. 7. If any party appealing to the supreme court or court ~f
con~mo~ pleas, shall, through mistake, accident or misfortnn~, omit
to .file his reasons of appeal at the time prescribed as aforesaid, the
~aid courts respectively, in their discretion, on sufficient cause he­
m~ shown therefor, may, at the term of the court appealed to, per­
mit such party to file his reasons of appeal in court: on such terms
as they shall prescribe. . 
SEc. 8. If the appellant in any case of appeal shall enter Ins
appeal .in the court appealed to, the cause shall be tried and de· 
cided m the same manner as if both parties had appealed, and
both parties shall have the benefit of any new and further evt­ 
dence,
SEC. 9. If the appellant shall neglect t.o enter his appeal as by 
law required, the adverse party, in case he <lid not also appeal, n~ay
at any time during the term appealed to, or at the next ~ucc1::ed111g
term, enter his complaint and obtain a confirmation of the former 
judgment, as of the third day of the said term, with double interest
from the time of the rendition of the judgment appealed from, to
said third day, if damages were therein given, and double costs. 
SEC. 10. In case of such neglect., if the court appealed to shall
be satisfied that the appellant had reasonable grounds of appeal,
and that the appeal was not taken solely for delay, single interest
on the damages and single costs only shall be required of him. 
OF TAKING QUESTIONS or LAW, IN CASES CIVIL AND CRIMINAL,
TO THE SUI>REME COVRT. 
SECTIO~ 
UDAPTER 19~. :J-t J'- 
1. Act of general assembly to be declared
constitutional in first instance, ex·
eept in supreme court. 
2. In case of judgment against pnrty
raising constitutional question, cause
how and when to be certified to su­
preme court for deciding constitu­ 
tional question.
3. Obligation of parties to follow cause, 
and right to be heard in question
raised. 
4. Of hearing question in supreme court,
and proceedings in cause. 
5. Obligation of parties to follow cause
baek, without notice. 
6. Of recognizuncc to be given by party
raising constitutional question in a
criminal cause, and effect of refusal 
to give.
7. Consequence of party raising question, 
not appearing in supreme court.
8. Expenses of determining constitu­ 
tionnl question to be taxed in costs.
9. Right of appeal in case in which con­ 
stitutional question raised, saved, and
when and how to be exercised. 
SECTION 
10. Rulings of court of common pleas in
mutter of law, when and how to be
reheard in supreme court. 
11. Rulings of special court of common
pleas in matter of law, when aud 
how.
12. Bond to be given hy defendant in 
special court case, in case of question
of law taken to supreme court. 
13. Bill of exceptions, how to he drawn,
and when to be presented for allow­ 
ance.
14. Of extension of time for presentation 
of exceptions.
15. Remedy in case judge refuses to allow 
bill of exceptions. 
16. Bill of exception, when and where to
he filed. 
17. Of bond or recognizance to be given
hy party taking question of law to 
supreme court.
18. Power of supremo court to affirm or 
reverse judgment below, in such case,
and of procee1lings thereon. 
19. Proceedings in case of neglect to enter
and file copy in supreme court. 
• SECTION 1. If in auy cause or proceeding, civil or criminal, pend­
ing before any court or magistrate other than the supreme court,
the constitutionality of any act of the general assembly shall ?e 
brought into question, it shall be the duty of such court or magis­
trate to rule said act to be constitutional, and to go on and try the 
cause as though such question had not been raised. . 
.s.i::c. 2. If judgment be rendered i11 the cause agau~st the party
rrusmg the constitutional question, the court or magistrate shall 
,11, I-. 
forthwith certify the cause to the supreme court for their decision
of the constitutional question, if in session ; and if not in session,
then to the session thereof next to be holden in any county of the 
state, by adjournment, or at a regular term. 
SEC, 3. The parties to such cause shall be bound to follow the
same to the supreme court without further notice ; and shall there
be heard by said court, on the constitutional question raised in 
such cause. 
SEc. 4. The supreme court shall give precedence to such cause
over all other business pending before them, and if practicable
shall have the opinion of all the justices of said court on the ques­
tion certified to them; and after deciding such constitutional
question, shall send back said cause, with their decision, to the
tribunal where it originated, and shall appoint a time, and if ne~d
be, a place where said tribunal shall assemble, to proceed in said
cause; and at the appointed time and place, said tribunal shall
meet and proceed to re-try said cause or to enter up judgment
therein, pursuant to the certified decision of the supreme court. 
SEc. 5. 'l'he parties in said cause shall be bound to follow the
same from the supreme court to the tribunal where it originated, 
without further notice. 
SEc. 6. The court or magistrate rendering judgment shall re·
q~ire .of the party to a criminal cause or proceeding raising a C?~· 
stitutional question, a recognizance, and of such party to a civil
cause or proceeding, a bond, in the sum of one hundred dollars,
with sufficient surety, with condition that he will follow sai~ ca?s.e 
to the supreme court, and thence to the tribunal where it ongi­
nated, and appear before said tribunal at the time and place ap·
pointed by the supreme court, and abide or perform the final
judgment or sentence of said tribunal in said cause; and upon the
refusal or neglect of the party to give such recognizance or bond,
shall proceed as if no such question had been raised. 
SEC. 7. If the party raising such constitutional question s~all
not appear before the supreme court at the time and place to which
the cause in which it shall be raised shall have been certified to
said court, said cause shall be remanded to the tribunal where it
or~gin~ted, as in t.he fourth section of this chapter is provided, and
said tribunal shall then proceed in said cause in the· same manner 
as though such question had not been raised in said cause. . 
. SEC. 8. All the expenses arising in the procuring of the d~c1s·
ion of any constitutional question as aforesaid, shall ente~ m~ 
and make a part of the costs in the suit in which the querltion is
raised. 
SEc. 9. If the party against whom any court or magistrate sl~all
render judgment in a cause in which a constitutional question
s~1all be raised, have a right of appeal to any other tribunal, such
right shall not be affected by the preceding provisions of this ch~p­
ter, but may be exercised within the same time after the eutermg
ul? of_ judgment in the cause, pursuant to the decision of the con·
etitutional question by the supreme court, and in the same manner, 
and upon the same terms, as is or may be provided by law, in simi­
lar cases, in which no such question is raised. 
SEC. 10. Any person convicted of an offence in any criminal
proceeding, commenced in, or brought by appeal before the court
of common pleas, and either party to a civil suit, or suit in form
civil, including suits for flowage caused by mill-dams, commenced
in or brought by appeal before. such court, upon which judgment
shall be rendered, may, if there be no appeal from such conviction
or judgment to the supreme court, and if such convict or party be
aggrieved by any opinion, direction, ruling, or judgment of the
court of common pleas on any matter of law raised by the plead·
ings, or by an agreed statement of facts, or apparent upon or
brought upon the record by a bill of exceptions, shall be entitled to
have such matter of law heard before, and decided by the supreme
court, for the same county in which such conviction shall be had
or judgment rendered. 
SEC. 11. Either party aggrieved by any opinion, direction, rul­
ing, or judgment of a special court of common pleas in any mat­
ter of law raised by the pleadings, or by an agreed statement of
facts, or apparent upon or brought upon the record by a bill of
exceptions, shall be entitled to have such matter heard before and
decided by the supreme court in the same county, provided such
right be claimed in open court, and bond to prosecutebe filed, and
motion for time to present to the justice trying the cause a bill of
exceptions, if a bill of exceptions be necessary, made within three
hours after the rendition of judgment in the action. 
SEc. 12. In case such right be claimed by a defendant to an
action in such special court, he shall, in addition to the ordinary
bond to prosecute, within three hours as aforesaid, give bond to
the plaintiff with sufficient surety or sureties to the satisfaction of 
said justice, in such sum as the justice may order, that he will pay 
all rent or other moneys due or which may become due pending
the action, and such damages and costs as may be awarded against 
him.
SEC. 13. Every bill of exceptions shall be summarily drawn up 
in writing by the person or party aggrieved, or by h~s counsel, and
shall be presented to the judge who shall have tried the ca?se,
within five days of the time of conviction in a criminal ~r~ce~d10g,
and of judgment in a civil cause, or cause in form ?1v1l, if the
court shall so long continue in session, and if not, durmg the ses­
sion of the court, unless, for cause shown, further time be given, 
and shall be allowed and signed by such judge. . 
8Ec. 14. Such judge may in any civil cause, or cause m form
?ivil, upon notice and° for cau'se shown, extend the ~me fo~ p~esent·
mg such bill of exceptions for allowance, to a~y t!me w1th111 five
days after the termination of the term at which Judgment. shall
have been rendered. 
SEc. 15. In case the judge trying the cause or proceedin_g shall,
for any reason, be unable to allow and sign a bill of exceptions, or
shall refuse so to do the matter of the same may be proved by
affidavits, subject to counter affidavits, to the satisfaction of the 
supreme court, with the same effect as if such bill of exceptions 
had been allowed and signed by the judge. 
SEC. 16. All bills of exception shall be filed with the clerk be­
low, during the term at which the cause shall have been tried, or,
in case of special allowance of time, within five days of the time 
of the allowance, and signature thereof by the judge. 
SEC. 17. The person convicted or party aggrieved in matter of
law by any opinion, decision, ruling, other than one concerning the 
constitutional validity of any act of the general assembly, brought
in question in the causes or judgment as aforesaid, may and shall
enter into recognizance, or give bond, and proceed in and enter.the
cause at the next term of the supreme court for the county, if a
criminal proceeding, in the same manner, and subject to like lia­
bilities as provided in case of criminal appeals from magistrates
and justices of the peace to the court of common pleas; and if a
civil cause, or cause in form civil, in the same manner, in all
respects as provided in case of appeals from the court of common 
pleas to the supreme court. 
SEc. 18. In all such proceedings and causes, duly entered by the
person convicted or the party aggrieved, in the supreme court, the
court, in a civil cause, or cause in form civil, may affirm the for·
mer judgment with additional debt, penalty, or damages at the
rate of six per cent. per annum, or may reverse the same in whole
or part, or may, in a proceeding or cause, civil or criminal, after
deciding all the questions of law raised therein, remit the same to 
the court of common pleas for trial or new trial, or may order a
new trial to be had in the supreme court; and in such cases may
enter such judgment, order, sentence or decree, and take such order
therein as the court of common pleas ought to have done, and
shall cause such other proceedings to be had in the cause, as to 
law and justice shall appertain. . 
SEC. 19. In case of neglect duly to enter and file the copy in 
any such proceeding or cause, in the supreme court, like procee?·
i!lgs shall be had in all respects and with like effect, as provided m
like cases against persons convicted, and parties who neglect duly
!o ~rosecute appeals, and the supreme court may and shall proceed
m hke manner to carry the conviction or judgment into full effect,
with additional costs. · 
SECTION 1. In all cases in which actions.originally commenced
in the supreme court shall be answered, the plaintiff against whom
a verdict has been rendered, shall, by filing a written motion with
the clerk of the court in which such verdict is rendered, within
forty-eight hours after the rendition of such verdict and payment
of the entry fixed by law for the entry of appeals in the supreme
court, be entitled, as of course, to a new trial in such action ; and
the defendant shall in such case be entitled to a like new trial,
upon like motion, and upon payment to the clerk of the costs of
the plaintiff in addition to the entry; such payment to be made,
in either case, at the time of filing such written motion. 
SEc. 2. Whenever it shall be made to appear, to the satisfaction
of the supreme court, by any party or garnishee in a suit which
shall have been tried or decided therein or which shall have been
tried or decided in the court of common pleas, within one year
previous to such application, that by reason of accident, mistake
or any unforeseen cause, judgment has been rendered in such suit,
on discontinuance, nonsuit, default, or report of referees, or that
such party or garnishee had not a full, fair and impartial trial in
such suit, and thereupon shall think it reasonable to grant a trial,
or in case a trial has been had in such case, to grant a new trial
therein, they shall have power to grant or to refuse to grant the 
same, upon such terms and conditions upon either party, as they
shall prescribe. . 
SEc. 3. The supreme court shall have like power to grant, or ~e­
fuse to grant a new trial in any case in which there bas been a trial 
by jury, for reasons for which new trials have been usually granted
at common law. 
~EC. 4. If the application for such trial or new trial of a s~t
decided in the supreme court shall be made at the same term m
which such suit shall have been tried or decided, the adverse 
party shall be holden to answer the same, without further notice
thereof . 
. SEc. 5. If s~ch application shall be made at any oJher te~m of
said court in a suit decided therein, or shall be made m a smt. de­
cided in the court of common pleas, notice thereof shall be given
to the adverse party, in such manner as the court shall, by general
rule or otherwise direct to appear at such time as the court shall 
appoint to answ~r the s~me. 
SEc. 6. Whenever a trial or a new trial shall be granted, the 
same shall be had before any court in any county, at such term
thereof, and under such restrictions and conditions, as the supreme
court may prescribe. 
SEc. 7. If the application for a new trial shall be made by the
plaintiff, no goods or chattels or real estate attached, or bail given
upon the original writ, shall be holden to respond to the judgment
in such case, unless the application for a new trial be made at the
term in which such cause shall have been decided, if in the supreme
court; but if the same shall have been decided by the court of
common pleas, the plaintiff shall file his petition for a trial, or a
new trial, with the clerk of the supreme court for the same county,
and notify the adverse party thereof within ten days after the ris­
ing of the court at which the same shall have been decided, or the
bail or property aforesaid shall be discharged. 
SEc. 8. The supreme court shall and may exercise the same
powers in granting a trial in all cases decided at a special court of
common pleas, or before any justice of the peace, if no trial shall
have been had therein, and may exercise the like powers in grant­
ing a trial in all cases decided by any probate court, wherein the
party shall have neglected to prosecute his appeal according to
law; and shall also have power in their discretion, on the petition 
of the accused, to grant trials or new trials upon indictments or
other criminal prosecutions in which verdict or judgment shall have
been rendered against such petitioner : Provided, application there­
for shall be made within one year after such cause shall have been
tried or decided. 
SEc. 9. Whenever it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction
of the court of common pleas, by any party in any suit commenced
in said court in which there is not by law a right of appeal, or m
any suit brought into said court by appeal from a justices' court,
and which shall have been tried and decided in said court of com·
mon pleas, within one year previous to such application, that by
reason of any accident, mistake or unforeseen cause, judgment h~s
been rendered in such suit on discontinuance, nonsuit, default or
report of referees, or that such party had not a full, fair and i~­
partial trial in such suit, and the court shall thereupon think it
reasonable to grant a trial, or in case a trial has been had in such
case to grant a new trial therein, they shall have power to grant or
to refuse to grant the same, upon such terms and conditions upon
either party, as the said court. shall prescribe. 
SEc. 10. If the application for such trial or new trial shall be
made at the same term in which such suit shall have been tried or
decided, the adverse party shall be holden to answer the same,
without further notice. 
SEc. 11. If such application shall be made at any other term of
said court, notice thereof shall be given to the adverse party in such
manner as shall be directed by general rule, or otherwise in such
manner as the court may direct. 
SEc. 12. If the application for a new trial shall be made by th.e
plaintiff no goods or chattels attached or bail given upon the origi­ 
nal writ, shall be holden to respond to the judgment in such case, 
unless the application for a uew trial be made at the term of said
court in which such cause shall have been decided. 
SEC. 13. All petitions for a trial or new trial shall be filed, heard
and tried only in the county in which the original suit or prosecu·
tion was commenced or tried. 
SEc. 14. If any party shall obtain a trial or new trial in any
cause by order of the supreme court or court of common pleas, and
shall neglect to enter such action for trial on the first or second day
of the court at which such trial was to be had by such order, or at
the time which such order shall prescribe, or shall not otherwise
comply with the terms of such order, the adverse party may enter
his complaint, and the said court shall thereupon affirm the last
judgment rendered in said cause, with interest, if damages or debt
were therein recovered, and additional costs. 
SECTION 1. Executions issued by the supreme court or court of
common pleas, shall issue in the name of the state of Rhode
Island and Providence Plantations, and shall be signed, sealed,
bear teste, and run throughout the state, in like manner as original 
writs. 
SEC. 2. 1'hey shall be issued on judgments rendered by said
courts, at the expiration of five days next after the rising of the
court at which judgment shall have been rendered, unless other· 
wise ordered, 
SEC. 3. The supreme court may, in their discretion, on motion,
direct execution to issue at any time <luring the term of the court 
at which judgment shall be rendered. 
SEC, 4. The court of common pleas may, on motion, direct e~e·
~ution to issue at any time during the term of the court at ~h1~h 
Judgment shall be rendered, on any judgments rendered t.herem,. in 
cases in which there is, by law, no appeal, and in the trial of which
no questions of law, by statement of facts, upon demurrer, bye~·
eeptions to the ruling of the court, or otherwise, are raised, or. m
which, there being a right of appeal, or questions of law berng
raised as aforesaid, the appellant shall not, within the time pre·
scribed by law, have given bond as required in cases of appeal; or
in case of a bill of exceptions, shall not have presented the same 
to the court for allowance, or filed the same as allowed, within the
time prescribed by law, or appointed by the court. 
SEc. 5. The supreme court or court of common pleas may,
upon motion, and for cause shown, stay execution upon any judg­
ment or decree rendered in said court, until further order. 
_SE~. 6. No execution shall issue, on any judgment rendere_d ?Y
a justice of the peace, or court or magistrate exercising the Juris· 
diction of a justice of the peace, within five days from the day
such judgment was rendered. 
SEC. 7. Executions, original or alias, may be issued by any
court, justice or magistrate authorized to issue such executions,.at
!lny time within six years from the rendition of the judgment orig· 
inally, or from the return day of the last execution. . 
~Ec. 8. Any judge of the supreme court, at any time, on ap~h·
cation made to him by the plaintiff in any original, alias or pluriee 
execution, issued from the clerk's office of the supreme court or
court of common pleas in any county, which has been lost or de­
stroyed previous to the satisfaction thereof, upon proof to his satis­
faction of the loss or destruction of such execution, after giving
such notice as he may think proper to the defendant in such exe­
cution, may authorize the clerk of the court, from whose office
said execution was issued, to issue another execution in the place
of the one so lost or destroyed. 
SEc. 9. Every execution issued by tbe supreme court, or by the
court of common pleas, shall be made returnable to the next suc­
ceeding term thereof, and shall be returned by the officer charged
therewith, within five days from the day appointed by law for the
sitting of the court from whence it issued ; and if such officer
shall not return the same within that time, he shall be liable there­
for, as by law prescribed. 
SEC. 10. Executions issued by justices of the peace, or courts or
magistrates exercising the jurisdiction of justices of the peace,
shall be returnable in three months after the date thereof, and shall
be returned to the justice who issued them, if he then retains his
office, and if not, to the town clerk. 
SEc. 11. No execution can be demanded until the clerk's fees,
or justice's fees, have been paid. 
SEC. 12. The clerks of the supreme court and court of common
pleas, shall note on the margin of every execution, the time when
the judgment recited in the same was rendered; also, whether the
execution was awarded against the defendant, in any suit brought
against him for-trespass or other injuries attended with force, or for
any malicious injury to the person, health, liberty or reputation of 
the plaintiff in the snit. 
SEc. 13. No execution shall issue against the body of any fe­ 
male, on any judgment founded on a contract not under seal,
where the debt or damages do not exceed fifty dollars ; but in such
case the execution shall issue against the goods and chattels or real
estate of the female against whom such judgment shall have been
rendered. 
SEc. 14. Writs of execution issued by the supreme court or
court of common pleas shall be substantially in the following
form:- 
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[SEAL.] sc, - To the sheriffs of our several counties or to their
deputies greeting: - 
Whereas of by the consideration of our court of
holden at within and for our county of on the
Monday of recovered judgment against of for the 
mm of debt or damages and costs of suit, as to us
appears of record, whereof execution remains to be done: we com­
mand you, therefore, that of the goods and chattels and re~l estate
of the said within vour precinct, you cause to be lev1e? and
paid unto the said • the aforesaid sums, being m the 
whole, with twenty-five cents more for this writ; and thereof also
to satisfy yourself for your own fees: and for want of the goods
and chattels and real estate of the said to be found in your
precinct., to satisfy and pay the same as aforesaid, we command
you to take the body of the said and commit unto our
county jail in your precinct, therein to be kept until pay the
full sums above mentioned, with your fees, or that be dis-
charged by the said or otherwise by order of law. Hereof
fail not, and make true return of this writ and of your doings
thereon, to our next to be holden at within and for
our county of on the Monday of next. Witness, 
Esq., at this day of in the year ,
Clerk. 
SEC. 15. Writs of possession shall be substantially in the follow-
ing form:- · 
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[SEAL.] so. - To the sheriffs of our several counties or to their
deputies greeting : - 
Whereas by the consideration of our court holden
at within and for our said county of on the Monday
of recovered judgment for the possession of with the
privileges and appurtenances thereto belonging, against · who 
had unjustly withholden him from the possession thereof; and also,
by the consideration of the same court recovered judgment against
the said · for the sum of costs of suit, as to us appears
of record, whereof execution remains to be done : we command
you, therefore, that without delay, you cause the said to have
possession of and in the said with the privileges and appur· 
tenances thereunto belonging. We also command you, that of 
the goods and chattels and real estate of the said within your
precinct, you cause to be levied and paid to the said the
aforesaid sum of with twenty-five cents more for this writ;
and thereof also to satisfy yourself for your own fees : and for
want of the goods and chattels and real estate of the said .to
be found in your precinct, to satisfy and pay the same as aforesaid,
we command you to take the body of the said and com·
mit to our county jail in your precinct, therein to be kept until
pay the full sum above mentioned, with your fees, or that be
di~charged by the said or otherwise by order of law. Hereof
fail not and make true return of this writ and of your doings there·
on, to our next to be holden at within and for our
county of on the Monday of next. Witness, 
Esq., at this day of in the year · 
SEC. 16. Writs of execution issued by justices of the peac~ and
courts and magistrates exercising the jurisdiction of a justice of 
the peace, shall be substantially in the following form:- 
Clerk. 
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[SEAL.] sc. - To the slteriff, his depu(IJ, or to either of the town
sergeants or constables in the county of 
necessary. 
Execution to be issued by a Justice of the Peace. 
greeting:- 
Whereas at a justice's court holden at on the
day of recovered judgment of said court against for
the sum of debt ( or damages,) and costs of suit, taxed at 
as of record of said court doth appear; which sums, in the
whole, amount to for which execution remains to be done: 
We command you, therefore, that of the goods and chattels and real
estate of the said within your precinct you levy the said sum
of together with for this execution, as also your lawful
fees for serving the same, and therewith satisfy and pay the said 
; and for want of sufficient goods and chattels and real estate
of the said to be by you found, to satisfy and pay the same
sums as aforesaid, we command you to take the body of the said 
into your custody, and safely secure in our jail in
until satisfy and pay the said the sums aforesaid and
your fees, or until be by the said therefrom discharged,
or otherwise by order of law. Hereof fail not, and make true re·
turn of this writ, in three months from the date hereof, and of your
doings thereon. Given under my hand and seal, at afore-
said, this day of in the year 
Justice of the Peace. 
SEc. 17. In cases where by law execution doth 1101. run against
the body, or other form of execution is specially directed, or is
necessary to conform to law, the court.justice or magistrate issuing
the execution shall vary from the above forms so far as may be 
SECTION 1. The body of any deceased person shall not be liable
to be taken for debt or damages on execution or upon any process
whatever; and if any officer shall, under color of any execution or
process, seize or take the body of any deceased person for debt. or
damages, he shall, upon conviction, be fined not exceeding five
hundred dollars, or be imprisoned not exceeding six months, at the
discretion of the court. 
SEC. 2. If any officer shall, at the same time, have two or more
executions delivered to him to serve, in which the parties shall be 
reversed, and shall sue and be sued in the same right and capacity,
he shall set off the debts or damages in the same, and levy and
collect the balance only that shall remain due thereon, with the
costs on all said executions. 
SEc. 3. Personal estate, when mortgaged and in the possession
of the mortgagor, and while the same is redeemable either at law
or in equity, may be levied on by execution against the mortgagor,
in the same manner as on his personal estate. 
SEC. 4. When levied on, whether by virtue of an attachrnentot
otherwise, it shall be sold by the officer as in other cases of levies 
on personal property on executions. 
SEC. 5. The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to th~ paym~nt
of the amount due on the mortgage, with such deduction for ID· 
terest for the anticipated payment or allowance for damages for
such anticipated payment, as may be ascertained and allowed by
the court to which the execution is returnable, and the balance
shall be applied to the payment of the amount due on the execu- 
fu~ . 
SEC. 6. In case of such levy, the plaintiff in execution may re·
deem the mortgaged property in the same manner as the mort­
gagor might have done; and upon such redemption shall hav_e the
same lien on the property for the amount paid by him, with rnter·
est, a~ the mortgagee had. . . 
SEc. 7. If the mortgage be not redeemed by the plainhfi_, or
sold as before mentioned, before the time of redemption expires,
the attachment shall become void. 
SEc. 8. In all cases when execution shall be levied on any goods
or chattels, such goods and chattels shall be kept in the otlirds
hands, and be advertised at least ten days before they !-hall
be exposed and offered for sale, in order that the person who
owned such goods or chattels may, if he thinks fit, pay the money 
due, together with the costs which shall have accrued thereon, and
thereupon have his said goods or chattels restored to him again. 
SEC. 9. In case such owner shall not redeem them as aforesaid,
the officer shall sell the same at public auction, to the highest bid­
der ; and if any overplus shall remain after the debt or <lamages,
and costs and charges are paid, the same shall be delivered by the
officer to the owner, or to any person legally qualified on his be­
half, to receive the same. 
SEc. 10. When the goods and chattels of the defendant sufficient
to answer the amount of the execution, cannot be found by the
officer charged with the service thereof, his real estate may be
levied on by execution ; but when real estate is attached in the
original writ, the word " attached " shall be inserted in the execu­
tion after the words " and real estate." 
SEc. 11. The officer charged with the service of the execution,
if he shall levy the same on real estate, shall set up notifications
of said levy, in three or more public places in the town where said
real estate lies, for the space of three mouths after such levy, and
before the same shall be exposed to sale, notifying all persons con­
cerned of the levy, and intended sale of said estate, that the owner
thereof may have an opportunity to redeem the same ; and he
shall also notify said sale, by causing an advertisement thereof to
be published, once a week, for the space of three weeks next before
the time of such sale, in some newspaper in the county where
said estate lies ; and if no newspaper be printed therein, then in
some newspaper printed in Newport or Providence. 
SEc. 12. In case of accidents or extraordinary storms or tern­ 
pests, it shall and may be lawful for the sheriff, from time to time,
to adjourn the sale of the estate levied on, giving one week's notice
thereof in manner aforesaid. 
SEc. 13. If no person appear to redeem the said estate, the
officer shall sell the same, or so much thereof as shall be sufficient
to satisfy the judgment obtained, and the costs and charges, at
public auction; and a deed thereof, by him given, shall vest in the
purchaser all the estate, right and interest which the debtor had
therein at the time such estate was attached, or, in case there were
no attachment, levied on, as aforesaid ; and the surplus of the
money that shall arise from the sale of said estate, after satisfying
the execution and the costs and charges, shall be lodged in the
general treasury for the owner thereof, and be liable to be attached
for his other debts. 
SEc. 14. Such sale shall be made under the execution levied
thereon, although the return day thereof may have passed, 
SEc. 15. The following shall be substantially the form of the
deed to be given when real estate is levied upon and sold as afore­ 
said, that is to say: -
To all people to whom these presents shall come, 
Whereas, an execution against
by, me the said on the day of 
send greeting : -
at the suit of was 
levied on (here de· 
scribe the prernises.) and whereas on the day of all the
estate, right, title, interest and property of the said in the
premises aforesaid, were by me the said sold at public auc-
tion, for the satisfaction of the said execution, to who was
the highest bidder, for the sum of which the said hath
since well and truly paid to me the said Now know ye, that
by force and virtue of the law in such ease made and provided, I
the said in consideration of the sum of money paid unto
me as aforesaid, do, by these presents, bargain, sell, assign and set 
over unto the said heirs and assigns forever, all the estate,
right, title, interest, property, freehold and inheritance of the said 
of, in and to the said premises and appurtenances at the
time of the levy thereon ; To have and to hold the said premises
and appurtenances to the said heirs and assigns .forever. In 
witness, &c. 
SEC. 16. When attachment shall have been made by original
writ, the officer shall insert the time thereof, and vary his deed ac­
cordingly. 
SEc. 17. When execution issues against a defendant whose
stock or shares in any body corporate established within this state
shall have been attached, the officer charged therewith shall se~Ye
a copy of the same, if a bank, upon the cashier thereof, if an 1~­ 
surance company, upon the president or secretary thereof, and if
any other corporate body, upon the treasurer thereof or person ex·
ecuting the duties of treasurer, which shall be deemed a good and
sufficient levy of such execution upon the stock or shares of the
defendant in such company. 
SEc. 18. The said stock or shares shall be advertised and sold
(or so much thereof as shall be necessary) in the same manner as
other personal property levied on by execution ; and a deed or
deeds thereof given by the officer aforesaid shall vest in the pur·
chaser, all the defendant's right, title and interest in such shares so
sold as aforesaid, and shall be recorded by the recording officer of 
such company. 
SEc. 19. The stock or shares of any body corporate established
without this state, or of any person whatsoever in any incorporated
company within this state, shall be liable to be levied on by execu­
t!on du_Iy ob~ained, like other personal property; and such execu­
tion being directed to the proper officer, according to law, he may
levy the same in the manner set forth in the two sections next pre·
ceding, upon any stock or shares of the defendant to be found
":ithin his precinct, and shall proceed to advertise, and sell, and
give deeds thereof, in the manner therein prescribed. 
Sso. 20. Whenever final judgment for any sum shall be r~n­
dered by. any court against any incorporated company, execution
on such Judgment shall be issued against the goods, chattels and
real estate of such corporation; and when any such exccutwn shall
be, by the officer charged with the service thereof, returned that he
cannot find sufficient property of such corporation whereon to levy
the same, it shall and may be lawful for the party in whose favor 
such judgment shall have been rendered, to sue out of the clerk's
office of the court in which such judgment was rendered, a writ of
scire facias against the president and directors, trustees, managers
or other like officers of such corporation, if any such there be, and
if none, then against so many of the stockholders or members
thereof as he may think fit; returnable to the next term of said
court. 
SEC. 21. On the return thereof, unless such president and direc­
tors, trustees, managers, other like officers, stockholders or mern­
hers shall make it appear that they had not, at the time of the ser­
vice of such writ of scire facias, within their possession and control,
sufficient.property of such corporation to satisfy said judgment or
any part thereof, said court shall issue execution against such pres­
ident, directors, trustees, managers or other like officers or stock·
holders or members, for the amount of such judgment, with interest
and costs, as for their own private debt; but if it shall appear
that such officers, stockholders or members had property as afore·
said to satisfy part of said judgment only, then an execution as
aforesaid shall issue for such amount only and costs. 
SEC. 22. Im all levies on execution upon real estate, goods and
chattels, stock or shares or other subject of levy on execution what­
soever, he who first procures the attachment or levy to be made
shall be entitled to have his debt or damages satisfied, before any
other demand for which the same may be subsequently attached
or levied on by execution at the suit of any other person, and all
others in order of their attachments or levies. 
SEc. 23. As divers levies of the same real or personal estate
may happen to be made on the same day, the officer who shall
make any such levy, whether of real or personal estate, shall be
obliged in his return to set forth the time of the day when such
levy was made, to the end that the priority of the attaching and 
levying creditors may be known . 
. SEc. 24. Every sheriff, deputy sheriff and town sergeant, charged
with the service of any execution issued by the supreme court or
court of common pleas, for twenty dollars or uewards, debt or
damages, shall levy, collect, receive and pay over, interest o.n the
same debt or damages, from the date so entered on the margm, up 
to the time of its discharge by him. . 
S~c. 25. When judgment shall be rende!ed agamst any person
holding the office of sheriff. the execution issued thereon, directed 
in t?e ordinary form, may 
1be
delivered to. the s~eri.ff or a deputy 
sheriff of some other county, who is authorized, within the county
of the defendant sheriff, to levy on the goods and chattels and !eal 
estate of the defendant as the proper sheriff of the county might
do in other cases, and to proceed and sell the same according to 
law. 
SEc. 26. For want of goods and chattels and real estate, such
sheriff or deputy shall take the body of the defen?a.nt sheriff and
him commit to the jail in the county of the eomrnitting officer. 
SECTION 1. Any person who shall become bail in any civil a?·
tion, either by giving bail bond to the officer serving the writ
therein, or by indorsing such writ, may, during the pen<lency of the
action, discharge himself as bail, by bringing his principal into ~he
court in which the action shall be pending, and there delivering 
him into the custody of such court. .
SEC, 2. Such person may also, at any time before final JUd~­ 
ment against him, as bail, on scire facias, dischasge himself as bail
in either of the two following modes : - . 
First. By committing his principal to the jail in the county in
which he became bail, or in which the original writ was return·
able; paying or tendering to the creditor or his attorney the c~sts,
if any, which may have accrued on a writ of scire facias agarnst
him as bail, and leaving with the keeper of such jail, a certifi_ed
copy of the original writ and the officer's return thereon, and giv­
ing to the plaintiff, if in this state, or his agent or his attorney ?f
record, notice in writing, of the time and place of such commit· 
ment, within six days after making the same ; or, · . 
Second: By bringing his principal into the court where the writ
of scire facias against him as bail shall be pending, before fin~l
judgment shall be rendered thereon; paying the costs on s~ch writ
of scire facias to the clerk, and delivering his principal into the
custody of said court. 
SEC. 3. If the principal shall be surrendered by his bail to t~e
court in which the original action is pending, he shall be by s~id 
court committed to jail, and there remain to be taken in execution
or to be discharged in the same manner as though committ~~ f?r 
want of bail in the first instance ; and he shall remain in Jail in
like manner if committed by his bail before final judgment be ren·
dered in such action. 
SEC. 4. H the principal shall be committed by the bail to jail 
after such final judgment, or if, being surrendered by his bail to
the court before which scire facias is pending against the- bail he
shall be committed by said court to jail, he shall there remain for
the space of thirty days, unless sooner discharged by order of
law. 
SEC, 5. If the principal be not taken in execution within thirty
days after final judgment against him when committed for want
of bail, or when committed by his bail, or by the court to which
his bail shall have surrendered him before such final judgment, or,
within thirty days after he shall have been committed by his bail,
or by the court to which his bail shall have surrendered him, pend­
ing scire facias against his bail, such principal shall be discharged
from jail upon payment of prison fees. 
SEC. 6. The death of the principal before the return day of the
execution against him shall discharge the bail. 
SEc. 7. When the principal shall avoid, so that his goods and
chattels or real estate cannot be found to satisfy the execution, nor
his body be found to be taken thereby, the plaintiff in the original
writ may sue out his writ of scire facias against the bail, from the
same court wherein final judgment was rendered against the prin­
cipal, returnable to the term of court which shall commence next
after twenty days after such writ shall be served ; and in case no,
legal cause be shown to the contrary, judgment shall be given
against the bail for the debt or damages and costs recovered 
against the principal, with interest and costs, and execution shall
be awarded accordingly. 
SEc. 8. The plaintiff in any suit wherein judgment shall be
rendered at any justice's court, and the amount of debt, costs and
interest due upon said judgment shall exceed fifty dollars, shall be
entitled to his writ of scire facias against the bail from the court
of common pleas in the county in which such judgment shall ~e
rendered; upon which writ the proceedings shall be the same m 
all respects, as if the judgment had been rendered in said court of
common pleas. 
SEc. 9. No writ of scire facias shall be served upon the bail
~nless it be within two years next after the entering up of final
Judgment against the principal : Provided, that if by reason of the 
absence of the bail from the state, service of the writ of scire facias
could not have been made within the time before mentioned, the
said writ may be served at any time within two years next after 
the return of the bail into the state. 
SEc. 10. The bail may have remedy by action on the case
ag~inst his principal for all damages sustained by his becoming 
bail. 
SECTION 1. Whenever any person shall be imprisoned for want
of bail in any civil action; or upon surrender or commitment by
bail in any such action ; or for non-payment of any military fine,
or state or town tax; or on execution in any civil action, (except
on executions awarded in actions on penal statutes or on bonds
given in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, or in any ac­
tions of trover, detinue or trespass, other than trespass quare
clausum fregit, in which title to the close was in dispute between
the parties, and trespass and ejectment; ) the sheriff or keeper of
the jail may grant to such person a chamber or lodging in any of
the houses or apartments belonging to such jail, and liberty of the
yard within the limits thereof, upon reasonable payment to be
made for chamber room, and upon bond being given by such per·
son as hereinafter provided. 
SEc. 2. Such person shall first leave with such sheriff or keeper
of the jail, a bond to the creditor, with two or more sufficient
sureties, being inhabit.ants of this state, bounden jointly and sev~r­
ally at least in double the sum· for which he is imprisoned, with 
condition in form following: " That if the above now a
pri.soner in the jail in within the county of ~t the 
snit of shall from henceforth continue to be a true pnsoner
in the custody, guard and safe-keeping of keeper of t~e
said jail, and in the custody, guard and~afe-keeping of his 
deputy, officers and servants, or some one of them, within the
limits of the said jail, and keeping the said jailer advised of the
place of his usual residence and abode therein, until be shall be
lawfully discharged, without committing any manner of escape or 
escapes, during the term of his restraint, then this obligation shall
be void, or else shall remain in full force and virtue." 
SEC. 3. Any person confined in any jail who may give bond as
aforesaid, may go into any building or place within the exterior
limits of the yard, complying with said bond and conforming to
law. 
SEC. 4. No person committed on execution shall have the liberty
of the prison yard for more than thirty days after his said commit·
ment, unless he shall within the said thirty days execute an assign·
ment of all his estate of every kind not exempted from attachment
by law, and wherever the same may be, to such keeper of said jail,
and his successor in said office, and his heirs and assigns, in trust
for the equal benefit of all his creditors in proportion to their de·
mands. 
SEc. 5. The keeper receiving an assigpment as aforesaid shall
not be held responsible to any person for any property of any
assignor, except such as he bas actually received into his posses.
sion ; provided he shall assign all the interest he shall obtain there·
by, to the committing creditor, if a resident of this state, upon his
request, or to such person, being a resident thereof, as such creditor
shall name, to be held by such creditor or person so named, his
heirs, executors, administrators and assigns for the purposes and
uses set forth in said deed, and a record of such assignment and
of said transfers shall be made by said keeper. 
SEC. 6. If any person so committed shall neglect to render him·
self to the keeper of the jail, in said jail, within said thirty days, or
make an assignment as hereinbefore provided, he shall be deemed
to have committed an escape under his bond for the liberty of the
prison yard. 
SEC. 7. Any person who shall become surety in any bond given
by any debtor for the liberty of the jail yard as aforesaid, shall
have a right at any time to deliver up the principal in said bond to
the sheriff of the county in which such debtor may have been com·
mitted, or to the keeper of the jail therein, and within such jail ;
whereupon he shall be detained by such sheriff or keeper in close
jail, in the same manner as though he had not been liberated on
bond, until he shall give other bond according to the provisions of
this chapter, or be otherwise discharged according to law; and
none of the sureties, after the principal has been delivered up as
aforesaid, shall be liable for any escape thereafter committed by the
principal. 
SEc. 8. H the creditor shall obtain judgment on such bond for
the breach of the condition thereof, he shall recover his just debt
wi!h interest from the time judgment was rendered in. the origina~
suit, and twelve per cent. interest on such debt f'?r his damages, 
and the court shall render judgment thereon accordingly. 
BEc. 9. No action shall be maintained for the breach of any
bond given for the liberty of the jail yb.rd as aforesaid, unless the
same be brought within one year after the time such breach was
committed. 
SBC. 10. Every justice of the peace and the clerk of any court 
41 
issuing an execution against any person, shall note on the margin
thereof the cause of action on which the same issued; to the end
that the keeper of the jail may ascertain whether such person, if
committed, be •ntitled to the liberty of the jail yard; and every
officer committing any person to jail on such execution shall note
in his commitment the cause of action on which the execution is
founded, according to the note or memorandum of the justice of
the peace or clerk. 
SEC. 11. If no such memorandum be made by such justice or
clerk on any execution, or if the officer shall not note the same in
his commitment, the keeper of the jail shall be held harmless if he
permit the person committed to have the liberty of the jail yard,
or discharge him on his producing a certificate of having taken the
oath prescribed by law for poor debtors. 
SEc. 12. All assignments, transfers and conveyances of property
made by a debtor during imprisonment for the payment or security
of any debt, except that of the committing creditor, shall be utterly
void, unless made for the benefit of all his creditors in proportion 
to their respective demands. 
SEC. 13. If any sheriff, deputy sheriff, town sergeant, constable
or keeper of any jail, shall take or receive from any prisoner in his
custody, any bond, obligation, covenant, promise or assurance
whatever, to indemnify and save harmless the person taking the
same, for the enlargement or ease of such prisoner, in any other
form or manner than is prescribed by law for taking bail on mesne
process in a civil action, or is prescribed in this chapter, every such
bond, obligation, covenant, promise or assurance whatever shall be 
utterly void. 
SEc. 14. The limits of each county shall be the limits of the jail
yard thereof. 
Relief of debt-Ors imprisoned. 
SECTION 1.. Any person who shall be imprisoned for debt,
whether on mesne process or execution, or for non-payment of
military fine, or town or state taxes, or on execution awarded
against him as defendant in any action of trespass and ejectment,
or trespass quare clausum fregit, in which title to the close was
in dispute between the parties, may complain to any justice of the
supreme court or to any justice of the peace in the county where
such person shall be committed, t.hat he has no estate, real or per­
sonal, wherewith to support himself in jail, or to pay jail charges,
and may request to be admitted to take the poor debtor's oath. 
SEc. 2. Such justice shall forthwith issue a citation to the credi­
tor, if within this state, or if such creditor does not live within
this state, then to his agent or attorney of record within this state,
to appear at such time and place as the said justice shall appoint,
to show cause, if any he have, why the person complaining as
aforesaid should not be admitted to take such oath. 
SEc. 3. The citation shall be served on the creditor, his agent
or attorney as aforesaid, seven days at least before the time ap­ 
pointed as aforesaid, by reading the same to him, or by leaving an
attested copy at his last and usual place of abode, by the sheriff,
his deputy or either of the town sergeants or constables in the
county in which such creditor, his agent or attorney shall reside. 
SEc. 4. Such creditor, his agent or attorney as aforesaid, shall, if
personally served with said citation, upon reasonable demand 
therefor pay to the officer serving the same, the sum of two dollars
for the past and future board of such prisoner in full to the return
day of such citation, which sum the officer shall immediately pay
over to the keeper of the jail to which said prisoner is committed. 
SEc. 5. The officer serving any creditor, his agent or attorney, 
with a citation by personal service, shaJl set forth in his return
thereon, that he has demanded as aforesaid of the person so
served the sum of money for the past and future board of such
prisoner provided by law, and that the person so served has paid,
or neglected and refused to pay the same, as the case may be;
and unless it appear by the return of the officer upon the citation,
that the money has been demanded and refused as aforesaid, the 
prisoner shall not be entitled to his discharge. 
SEC. 6. If service of the citation is made by leaving a copy
thereof, the person served therewith shall pay the sum as aforesaid
to the keeper of said jail, within twenty-four hours after such
service. 
SEC. 7. The creditor, his agent or attorney as aforesaid shall, in
addition, pay to the keeper of said jail the sum of two dollars per
week for the future board of such prisoner, counting the first week
for said last-mentioned payment from and including the day on
which said citation is made returnable ; which payment in advance
shall continue thereafter to be made by such creditor, during the
time the said prisoner shall be detained at his suit. 
SEc. 8. In case of any default on the part of such creditor, his
agent or attorney, to make payment as aforesaid, the keeper of
said jail shall discharge such prisoner from jail, stating in his formal
discharge on the jail book, the reason thereof: Provided, that no
prisoner shall be discharged by reason of such default who has
been refused the poor debtor's oath, and who shall, at the time of
such default, have the liberty of the jail yard. 
SEc. 9. The amount paid by the creditor for the board of the
person imprisoned at his suit, shall be added to and form a part of
the costs of commitment and detention, and as such costs shall be
paid by the prisoner in the then existing or any future proceeding
which may be lawfully instituted against him for the recovery of
the debt and costs of said suit. 
SEc. 10. Any justice of the supreme court with any justice of
the peace in the county where the prisoner is committed ; or a!1y
justice of the court of magistrates in the city of Providence with
any justice of the peace in the county of Providence, (when _the
prisoner shall be committed in said county;) or any two justices
of the peace in any other county in which the prisoner 1s. com­
mitted, may, at the time and place appointed as aforesaid, ex·
amine the return of said citation, and if it shall appear to ~ave
been duly served, may administer the oath hereinafter prescnbed
to the party imprisoned as aforesaid, if, after fully examining the
prisoner under oath, and hearing the parties, the said justices shall
think it proper so to do : Provided, such applicant shall t~en and
there first make and execute a deed of assignment of all his estate
of every kind, and wherever the same may be, except what ts
exer?pted from attachment by law, to such keeper and his succee­
sor in his said office and his heirs and assigns in trust, for the
benefit of all his creditors in proportion to their respective demands. 
SEc. 11. The oath to be administered in such a case shall be as
follows: I do solemnly swear, (or affirm,) that I have not any es- 
tate, real or personal, in possession, remainder or reversion, over
ten dollars, (or except what is exempt from attachment by law,)
and that I have not, since the commencement of this suit against
me, or at any other time, directly or indirectly, sold, leased or
otherwise conveyed or disposed of to, or intrusted any person or
persons whomsoever with, all or any part of the estate, real or per­
sonal, whereof I have been the lawful owner or possessor, with
any intent or design to secure the same, or to receive, or to expect
any profit or advantage therefrom, for myself or for any of my
children or family, or any other person ; or have caused or suffered
to be done any thing else whatsoever, whereby any of my creditors
may be defrauded; so help me God: (or, this affirmation I make
and give upon peril of the penalty of perjury.) 
SEC. 12. The oath aforesaid being administered by said justices,
and taken by said prisoner, the said justices shall deliver to him a
certificate thereof, under their hands and seals, in the following 
form:-
To keeper of the jail at in the county of 
We, the subscribers, authorized by the statute in such case made
and provided, do certify, that a poor prisoner confined
upon mesue process, ( or otherwise as the ewe may be,) in the
prison at aforesaid, has caused the party at
whose suit he was so confined, to be notified according to law, of
his the said desire of being admitted to take the poor
debtor's oath ; that in our opinion the said has not any
estate, either real or personal, except what is exempt from attach­
ment by law, (or over ten dollars, as the case may be;) and that
he has not conveyed or concealed his estate with design to secure
the same to his own use, or to defraud his creditors; and that we
have, after due caution to the said administered to him
the oath, (or affirmation,) prescribed by law to be administered to
poor debtors. 
Witness our hands and seals this day of A. D. 
1 
Justice of the supreme court, (or
Justice of the court of magistrates,) 
Justice of the peace. 
SEC. 13. Whenever any prisoner shall present such a certificate,
as is prescribed in the next preceding section, to the keeper of the
jail in which he is imprisoned, such keeper shall forthwith ~is­ 
charge him from his commitment at the suit of the creditor
named therein. 
SEc. 14. No person who has been admitted to take the oath
aforesaid, shall be retained in jail for the prison fees, or for the
fees of the justices before whom he may have taken such oath. 
SEc. 15. No keeper of any jail receiving an assign~ent under
the tenth section of this chapter shall be held responsible to any
person for anyproperty of any assignor, except such as he h.as act­
uallr received into his possession: Provided, ~e. shall a~s1gn_ all
the interest he shall obtain thereby to the committing cre.d1tor, if !1' 
resident of this state, on his request, or to such person being a res!­
dent thereof as such creditor shall name; to be held by such credi- 
tor or person, his heirs, executors., administrators and assigns, for
the purposes and trusts set forth in said deed. 
SEc. 16. No person who shall be committed on execution
awarded against him as plaintiff in replevin, or as defendant in
any action on a penal statute, or in any action of trover or detinue,
or for any malicious injury to the person, health or reputation of
the plaintiff in such suit, or for breach of promise of marriage, or 
for seduction, or for any trespass excepting only such as are partic­
ularly named in the first section hereof, shall be deemed to be 
within the meaning of the provision of that section or entitled to
be admitted to take the oath aforesaid. 
SEc. 17. If a debtor take out a citation to his committing credi­
tor and has the same served and subsequently withdraws the same,
or if upon trial he shall not be admitted to take the oath above
prescribed, he shall not be entitled to another citation to the same
creditor unless on proof of some change of circumstances after the
taking out of the first citation ; which change of circumstances
shall be annexed to or recited in the second citation and form a
part thereof. 
Relief before the court.
SEC. 18. The court before which any action is pending _for the 
recovery of any debt or demand, for which the defendant, if com·
mitted to jail thereon, would be entitled to be admitted to take the
oath aforesaid, may administer the said oath to the defendant as
hereinafter provided. 
SEC. 19. The defendant, in such case, may apply to any Justice
of the peace in the county in which he resides for a cit.at1on. to
the creditor to appear at the court in which such action is pendmg,
to show cause why the defendant should not be admitted to take
said oath. 
SEc. 20. Such citation shall be served by any sheriff, deputy
s~erifl~ town sergeant or constable, at least four days before the
time therein appointed for taking said oath, by reading the same
to the plaintiff, or by leaving an attested copy thereof at his last and
usual place of abode in this state ; and such citation shall be ~­
t~rned to the court in which such action is pending. If the plain·
tiff does not reside in this state, service of said citation may be 
made in like manner upon the agent or attorney of record of the
plaintiff, in this state. · 
SEc. 21. If it shall appear to the court in which the said action
is pending, that notice has been given as before provided, said court
shall examine the defendant on his oath concerning his estate and
e~ects and the disposal thereof, and may also receive any other
ev1de~ce ?ffered by the defendant or the plaintiff; and upon such
examination, the court may, in its discretion, administer to the de· 
fendant the said oath.
SEc. 22. If said oath be administered, the execution w~ich 
may be issued against the defendant in said action shall run against
the goods and chattels or real estate of the defendant, and not 
against his body. 
Relief of .debtors liable to imprisonment on execution. 
SEC, 23. Any defendant in any execution, who would, if com­
mitted to jail thereon, be entitled to be admitted to take the oath
aforesaid, may apply in the manner hereinbefore mentioned, for a
citation to his creditor to show cause why he should not be admit­
ted to take said oath. 
SEC. 24. Such citation shall be served in the same manner as is
provided in the twentieth section of this chapter. 
SEC. 25. Upon the return of such citation, the magistrates author­
ized to administer said oath by section ten of this chapter, in the
county in which such defendant is liable to be imprisoned, may
administer said oath to the defendant, if upon examination of the
defendant on oath, and of such other evidence as either party may
produce, they may think proper. 
SEC. 26 .. If the defendant be admitted to take the said oath, he
shall thereafter be exempt from imprisonment on said execution or
any future execution that may be issued on said judgment; and
execution on said judgment shall issue only against the goods and
chattels and real estate of the said defendant. 
SEC. 27. 'l'he justices administering the oath aforesaid pursuant
to the provisions of the twenty-fifth section of this chapter, shall
give a certificate to that effect under their hands and seals to the
said defendant. In all cases, the justices who commence the ex- 
•amination of the prisoner under the provisions of this chapter, shall
alone have the power to sign and seal the certificate of his dis­
charge. 
8Ec. 28. When the oath aforesaid shall be administered to any
defendant under the provisions of the ten sections next preceding, he
shall then and there make an assignment of all his estate, real and
personal, not exempted from attachment by law, to some responsi­
ble- inhabitant of this state, his heirs and assigns, to be approved
by the magistrates administering said oath, in trust for the benefit
of all his creditors, in proportion to their demands, and a copy of
which assignment shall be filed by the assignee in the office of the
clerk of the court, or magistrate issuing such execution. 
. SEC. 29. The person to whom tbe debt appears by the process 
to belong at the time complaint is made, shall be deemed the ered­
itor within the meaning of the provisions of this chapter. Neither
the commitment of the prisoner nor his discharge shall be a satis­
faction of the debt for which he was committed. If committed on
execution, the plaintiff may take out another execution, whic?
shall not however run against the body of the defendant. If suit
be brought on the judgment, execution in such suit shall not run
against the body of the defendant, nor shall the defendant be _held
to bail on the writ in such case. If the defendant be committed
on mesne process, when he receives a certificate as aforesaid, if that
fact be shown bv plea to the court or justice before whom the
action is pending, then execution shall not issue against the body 
of the defendant ; but in all such cases, execution shall issue
against the goods and chattels and real estate of such defendant. 
SEc. 30. Any justice of the supreme court, or any justice of the
peace in the same county, who shall be present at the time and
place to which any citation in behalf of any poor prisoner Issued
under the provisions of this chapter shall be duly returned, may m
the absence of another magistrate, adjourn the hearing thereon to
any other time or place, as he may think proper, with the same
effect as if another justice were present. 
SEc. 31. Any one of the Narragansett tribe of Indians com·
mitted to jail for debt, upon mesne process or execution, shall be
considered as a poor prisoner, within the true intent and meaning
of this chapter notwithstanding such prisoner may have estate, ~eal
or personal, in common with the said tribe; and shall be entitled
to and may receive all the benefits and advantages hereof. 
SECTION 
~DA.PTER 199. JI if: 
OF POOR TORT DEBTORS. 
l. Persons imprisoned in actions on penal
statutes, &c., entitled to citation, 
2. Citation, when and to whom issued.
3. What the citation shall set forth. 
SECTION 
4. How it shall be served.
5. Duty of keeper if board is not paid. 
6. Boord paid in such rose to form a part
of costs of commitment. 
SECTION 1. ~ny person who shall be imprisoned upon mesne
process, execution, or surrender, or commitment by bail in any ac­
tion on penal statutes, or in any action of trover, detinue, tresp~ss,
trespass and ejectment, or trespass quare clausum fregit in which
the title to the close was not in dispute between the parties, and
who shall complain, on oath, to the keeper of the jail in which he
is imprisoned, that he has no estate real or personal, wherewith to
s?pp~rt himself. in jail or pay jail charges, shall be entitl('d to a
citation as hereinafter provided. 
SEc. 2. 1f such keeper shall believe said complaint to be true,
he shall forthwith issue a citation under his hand and seal to the
plaintiff at whose suit the complainant is imprisoned, if the plain·
tiff resides in this state, or if he does not reside within this state, 
then to his agent or attorney of record, or if he have no a~en~ ?,r
att?rney of record, then to the person who indorsed the plarntift s
writ as surety. 
SEc. :J. Such citation shall set forth that said prisoner has made
complaint as aforesaid, and that said prisoner will be discharged
unle~s the sum of two dollars per week be within ten days fro!11
the time of the service of said citation, paid to the said keeper in 
advance for the board of said prisoner, reckoning said board from
the expiration of said ten days after said service, which payment
in advance shall continue to be made by said creditor <luring the
time said prisoner shall be detained at his suit. 
SEC. 4. Said keeper upon issuing the citation shall at the ex­
pense of the state, cause service thereof to be made by the sheriff,
bis deputy, or any town sergeant or constable, on the person to
whom such citation shall be directed as aforesaid, by reading the
same to him in his presence and hearing, or by leaving a true and
attested copy thereof at his last and usual place of abode. 
SEC. 5. In case of default made in payment of said prisoner's
board as required in the third section of this chapter, the keeper
shall discharge such prisoner from jail, stating in his formal dis­
charge oa the jail book, the reason thereof. 
SEC. 6. The amount thus paid by the creditor for the board of
the prisoner so imprisoned at his suit, shall be added to and form a
part of the costs of commitment and detention, and as such costs
shall be paid by the prisoner in the then existing or any future pro­
ceedings which may be lawfully instituted against him for the re·
covery of the debt and costs of said suit. 
SECTION 1. Any inhabitant of this state, who shall have resided
and been domiciled therein for the space of three years next pre·
ceding the preferring of his petition, and who shall be insolvent,
may prefer his petition for relief as an insolvent, to the supreme
court, to be holden in and for the county in which such peti~ioner
shall be resident or domiciled ; which petition shall be filed m the
office of the clerk of said court three weeks, at least, before the 
sitting thereof.
SEc. 2. Said court may, in their discretion, dispense with the 
aforesaid term of residence. 
SEC. 3. Each petitioner shall exhibit and file with his petition,
under oath, to be taken by him before any judge, justice ~f the 
peace or public notary of the county in which he may reside, a
just and true statement of all his debts and to whom due, and of
the losses and misfortunes by which his insolvency has been
caused; and also a just and true inventory of all his propert~ and
estate of every kind and nature, in possession or action, remainder
or reversion, excepting wearing apparel not exceeding in value the 
sum of one hundred dollars.
SEc. 4. In addition to the oath required in the preceding section, 
the petitioner shall, on preferring his petition as aforesaid, take the 
following oath to his inventory:- You do solemnly s,~ear,
(or affirm,) that the inventory on file with your petition is a JUSt,
true and perfect inventory and account of all your property ~nd 
estate of every kind and nature, in possession or action, reversion
or remainder, excepting wearing apparel; and that you h_ave not
at any time, directly or indirectly, sold, leased or otherwise con·
veyed or disposed of to, or intrusted any per!mn or persons whom· 
soever with, all or any part of the property or estate, real or per­ 
sonal, whereof you have been the owner or possessor, to defraud 
your creditors or any of them, or with any intent or design to
secure the same, or to secure or expect any profit, benefit or ad­
vantage therefrom, for yourself or any of your children or family,
or any other person; nor done, nor caused, nor suffered to be done,
any act, matter or thing whatever, whereby any of your creditors
may be defrauded; so help you God: (or, this affirmation you
make and give upon peril of the penalty of perjury.) 
SEC. 5. The clerk shall notify the creditors of such petitioner of
the pendency of such petition, by publishing a notification thereof
at least three successive weeks next before the sitting of said
court, to which said petition shall be preferred, in some public
newspaper printed in this state ; the cost of such publication being
first advanced by the petitioner. 
SEc. 6. The court, upon inspection of the schedules of the peti­
tioner attached to his petition, may order such other and further
notice to all or any of the creditors as they may deem necessary. 
SEC. 7. The court, good cause being shown therefor, may permit
any such petition to be preferred and received in term time,
although not filed as aforesaid ; and in such case the petition shall
be continued to the next term of the court, and notice thereof
given to the creditors in the manner hereinbefore prescribed. 
SEC. 8. Each petitioner shall be strictly examined by the court,
and by any of the creditors who may think proper, in order to
obtain from him under oath, a full, true and undisguised disclosure
of his actual condition and circumstances ; the amount of his
property and debts, the extent and nature of his losses, and the
conveyances, transfers or other dispositions which may have been
made of his property or any part thereof; and how and in what
manner, at what time or times, to whom, and on what con·
sideration, terms or conditions; and the court shall strictly and
thoroughly examine into the conduct and proceedings of such
petitioner, so far as the interest of his ereditors may have been or
are -liable to be prejudiced or affected thereby; and in addition to
his disclosures and answer under oath, to require him if they think
proper, to produce satisfactory evidence of all such facts as they
may deem material to a full understanding of the merits of his case. 
8Ec. 9. Said examination being accurately taken down in writ· 
ing, by order of the court, in a suitable record book, shall in open
court, be read to and signed by the petitio~er. . . 
SEc. 10. No such petitioner shall receive a discharge by virtue
of this chapter unless upon full investigation as aforesaid .of his
conduct and proceeding, and upon a hearmg of such testimony
as. his cred_itors may present, he shall,in the opinion of the court, be 
fairly and Justly entitled thereto .
. 8Ec. 11. Whenever the court shall grant such petition, the _P~ti­ 
ti~ner shall in open court, at the same term and before re~e1vmg
hIS certi!i,cate of discharge, execute, ~cknowledge a~d deliver to
such assignee or assignees (not exceedmg three) as S&.Jd court may 
appoint, upon the nomination of the major part in value, of the
creditors present, if they shall think proper so to nominate, an as·
signment conveying and transferring to him, his heirs and assigns,
his successor, his heirs and assigns, in trust for the benefit of all
the creditors, all and singular the estate and effects, real and per· 
sonal of every description, in possession, or action, reversion or
remainder, to which said petitioner may be entitled, in law and
equity, (excepting wearing apparel as aforesaid,) with all the mu·
nirnents and evidences thereof; and all debts due to him, andall
debts, claims and demands, rights and credits of every description,
together with all his books of account, papers and writings, and
evidences relating to such debts or claims; all which muniments,
evidences, books and papers, and if the court shall so require, all
which effects, goods and chattels, shall be actually delivered up~ 
said assignee, before such petitioner shall be entitled to receive bis
certificate of discharge. . 
SEC. rn. Such petitioner shall, upon the appointment of his
assignee, take the oath prescribed to be taken by him to bis inven· 
tory in the fourth section of this chapter.
SEC. 13. The court shall not grant such petition t.o any debtor 
whose debts do not exceed one hundred dollars.
SEC. 1.t. On the reception of any such petition, the court may, 
in their discretion, stay all proceedings against the body and estate, 
or either, of the petitioner, for the collection of debts; and may
cause such petitioner to be liberated from jail, if confined in the
jail in the county of Providence, on his giving bond with surety or
sureties, to the satisfaction of the keeper of said jail ; and if con·
fined in jail in any other county, on his giving bond with surety or
sureties, to the satisfaction of the sheriff of such county, with con·
dition to return to jail in ten days after the rising of the co~rt at
which the petition shall be finally disposed of, unless the peti_t1oner
shall be discharged by the court, and shall receive a certificate
thereof, by order and under the seal of the court. , 
SEc. 15. If any petitioner, against whose person, proceedings for
the C?llection of debts shall be stayed, and whose petition shall be 
pend.mg, shall be committed to jail by his bail, such star ~f _pr~
ceedmgs shall not prevent the detention of such prisoner rn jail, m 
the same manner as he would be detained, if no such stay of
.proceedings bad been ordered ; and if any such petitioner ~hall be 
surrendered in court by bail, said petitioner shall be eornmitted to
and detained in jail, in the same manner as if 110 such stay of pro­
ceedings had been granted. 
SEC. 16. Any petitioner who- shall be committed or surrendered
b~ bail as aforesaid, shall be discharged from jail on givi_ng b~nd 
with sureties to the satisfaction of the sheriff of the county m which
such petitioner shall be committed, if committed to any jail other 
~h~n. the jail in the county of Providence; and if commit.ted to the
Jail m the county of Providence, then to the satisfaction of the
keeper of said jail, with condition to return to jail within ten days
after the rising of the court at which the petition shall be finally 
disposed of, unless the petitioner shall be discharged by the court,
and shall receive a certificate thereof by order, and under the seal
of the court. 
SEc.17. Any surety in a bond given in pursuance of the four·
teenth, or the sixteenth sectien of this chapter, shall, at all times be·
fore the expiration of the time limited in said sections for the return
of the principal to jail, have the same power and authority over his
principal, as though he were his bail in a civil cause, and may com­
mit him to jail in the same county in which he was committed
when he gave the bond; upon which commitment, such surety shall 
be discharged from all liability for any act done by the principal
subsequent thereto. 
SEC, 18. The principal so surrendered shall hve the same right
to give bond that he would have had if he had not given the first 
bond. 
SEc. 19. No man who shall intermarry with any woman, whose
petition shall have been granted pursuant to, and who shall have com­
plied with the provisions of this chapter, shall be liable in any way
in his person or estate, for any debt incurred, or on any contract,
covenant, bond or agreement, entered into by his wife, before her
petition was granted, for any greater amount than the value of
such property as actually came into his possession or under his
control, by her marriage, other than her wearing apparel. 
SEc. 20. Every insolvent debtor who shall, without fraud or per­
jury, obtain a certificate of discharge by order and under the seal
of said court, shall forever thereafter be exonerated and protected
from arrest, imprisonment, or any manner of bodily restraint on
account of any debt, covenant, contract, ( except a promise of mar­
~age,) agreement or pecuniary obligation of any kind, not originat­ 
ing in tort or in criminal conduct, contracted, entered into or in­
curred prior to the filing of his petition. 
SEc. 21. Any creditor of such insolvent may sue out an original
summons or process of summons and attachment against him, and
upon final judgment rendered thereon in favor of such creditor, ex­
ecution shall issue to be levied and served as in ordinary cases :
Provided, that such execution shall not run against the body of
said insolvent, but shall issue against his goods, chattels and real 
estate. 
SEc. 22. In no case shall the plaintiff in any suit against such
i~solvent be permitted to dispute the validity of such insolvent's
discharge, unless he shall give notice thereof, and of the grounds of
his objection, in writing on the back of his original writ; which
notice shall be read to the defendant as part of said writ, or be in­
serted in the copy left at his last and usual place of abode . 
. SEC. 23. Upon the trial of such action, t.he defendant shall be at 
li~erty to plead specially his said discharge, in. bar thereto., or !"ay
give the same in evidence under the general issue; and m e1t~er
case, his certificate under the seal of the court shall be conclusive 
?f his legal discharge, and the validity thereof shall noJ be call~d
m question except upon sufficient legal proof produced. m ~he trial
of the charges, specified as aforesaid in the original writ, either of 
wilful perjury in his examination before the court, or on any other
occasion before said court, during the pendency of his petition, or
before said assignee, or before the magistrate in swearing to his
inventory list of debts or other statements; or of any other fraudu­
lent proceeding or practices on the past of said defendant, and by
him concealed from said court, for the purpose of fraudulently ob­ 
taining his said discharge. 
SEC. 24. If any one of said charges shall on trial be found true,
then the plaintiff shall have judgment for his debt or dam~ges,
(being first proved and aseertained.) in the same manner as if no
such discharge had ever been granted to the defendant ; and said
discharge shall, in all cases forever thereafter, be considered null 
and void. • 
SEC. 25. In case the plaintiff shall fail to invalidate as aforesaid
said discharge, the defendant shall be entitled to his costs; and the
plaintiff upon paying the same to the defendant, or to the clerk in
open court for the defendant's use, shall be entitled to his judgment
and execution as is provided in section twenty-one of this chapter;
but if the plaintiff shall fail so to pay said cost before the las~ day
of the same term of the court, then the defendant shall have Judg- 
ment and execution for the cost against the plaintiff. . 
SEc. 26. Whenever any such insolvent shall be a partner m
trade or business as a joint contractor with any other person, then
the original writ against such partners or joint contractors s~all
run against said insolvent, as is hereinbefore prescribed, and agamst
all the other partners or joint contractors, as in ordinary cas~s i 
and in any such case the final judgment., if in favor of the pla~n­
tiff, shall be against the property of said insolvent as is herern­
before provided, and against the other defendants in the usual
form ; and separate executions shall issue in conformity to such 
judgment. 
OJ assignees. 
SEc. 27. The assignee appointed as aforesaid shall, before pro­
ceeding to act, be sworn before the court, and if required, shall
give bond with surety for the faithful performance of the trus~ i 
and being so qualified, he shall immediately give notice thereof m
:iome newspaper published in or near the place of residence of the
msolvent, to the end that all his creditors may, if they see fit, ap­ 
pear ~nd prov~ their claims against his estate, whether paya.ble at
that time or 111 future ; for which purpose not less than six 1~or 
more than eighteen months from the first publication of the notice
shall be allowed, at the discretion of the court ; and those only
who shall prove their claims within that time shall be entitled to a 
dividend out of the insolvent's estate. 
SEc. 28. No claim shall be allowed without sufficient legal
~roof of its justice ; and it shall be the duty of the assignee, f~om 
time to time to examine the insolvent touchinz the claims against
his estate, and to require him to produce and deliver up any receipt, 
~oucher, account stated, letter or other paper which may be of use
m deciding upon any of said claims. 
. SEc .. 29. If the insolvent shall in any case refuse to be so exam­
ined, or to produce the papers called for and in his possession,
the court may cause him to be committed to prison, there to re­
main until he shall furnish and produce the information and docu­
ments required. 
SEc. 30. If any person shall fraudulently or collusively claim as
his property any estate or effects of the insolvent, or any debt,
every such person shall forfeit double the amount so claimed, for
the benefit of the creditors. 
SEc. 31. The assignee may, in his own name, collect and take
possession of, by suit or other legal means, all such estate, property
and debts; may prosecute to final judgment and execution all suits
previously commenced in the name or for the benefit of said peti­
tioner, and pending at the date of said assignment; and may re­
deem all lands, goods and estates which may have been previously
mortgaged or in any way pledged or incumbered, and in which
said petitioner may have any interest. 
~EC. 32. If any such petitioner, prior to making his assignment
as aforesaid, shall convey to any of his children or others, any land
or goods, or transfer any of his debts or demands or the evidences
thereof, with intent to defraud his creditors, all such property and
claims shall nevertheless vest in the assignee appointed as afore· 
said. 
SEc. 33. Every trustee or other person who shall receive any
such conveyance or transfer and shall wilfully conceal any such
property or evidences of debt, shall forfeit double the value thereof, 
for the benefit. of the creditors. 
• SEc. 34. Whenever any person shall be sus~e~ted of _conceal­
~ng, as aforesaid, any property or debts of the petitioner, said court,
if sitting, or either justice thereof out of term time, shall have
power, upon the application of an assignee, to cause such sus­ 
pected person to come before them, and to examine him under
oath respecting the same. 
SEc. 35. If such person shall refuse to be sworn so as to make
ans~er to Ruch questions as shall be administered touc~ing the
subject of said examination, then it shall be lawful for said court
or justice to commit him to prison, there to be detained until he 
shall submit to be examined as aforesaid. 
SEc. 36: In all cases where there shall be mutual debts or de­
mands subsisting between the insolvent and any of his creditors,
previous to the reception of his petition as aforesaid, the assignee
shall (the just amount thereof being first ascertained) set off such
mutual claims, and the balance only shall be paid or claimed on 
either side, respectively. 
SEc. 37. The assignee may submit any and all claims an~ ~e·
mands against said estate, or in favor thereof, to the final decision 
of referees under a rule of any competent court. 
SEc. 38. After the expiration of the time allowed for the proof 
of the claims against the estate of the insolvent, the assignee
shall forthwith divide and distribute the net produce of the said
insolvent's estate and effects in his hands, to and among his eredi­
tors who shall have duly proved their claims, in proportion to their
several and respective debts; allowing, however, to said insolvent,
such articles of household furniture and implements of trade or
husbandry, and such other articles as are exempted from attach·
ment by law, and deducting such necessary expenses of settling
the estate, and such reasonable compensation to the assignee for
his services as the court shall allow. 
SEC. 39. Before any dividend as aforesaid, all debts dee to the
United States or this state or any town therein for taxes, (if any,)
shall be paid, so far as the property of the insolvent will go towards
paying the same, in the order above named; and nothing in this
chapter shall be taken to impair any bona fide lien existing prior
to the reception of any such petition upon any land, estate or
effects of any such insolvent. 
SEC. 40. 'fhe supreme court may at all times call any su_ch
assignee to account, and at their discretion may discharge him
and appoint others, one or more, in his stead; and no suit at law
or in equity shall be abated by such removal and new appoint­
ment, but shall thereafter be prosecuted in the name of the new 
assignee. 
SECTION 1. Every person imprisoned in any common jail, or
otherwise restrained of his liberty, by any officer or other person,
except in cases mentioned in the following section, may prosecute
a writ of habeas corpus, according to the provisions of this chapter,
to obtain relief from such imprisonment or restraint, if it shall
prove to be unlawful. 
SEc. 2. The following persons confined in any jail shall not be
entitled of right to demand and prosecute said writ : - 
First. Persons convicted of treason against this state, murd~r,
rape, robbery, arson, burglary or as accessories before the fact. m
either of those crimes, or committed on suspicion of being gmlty
of either of those crimes, or as accessories thereto before the fact,
when the cause is plainly and specifically expressed in the warrant 
of commitment; 
Second. Persons convicted, or in execution upon legal process,
civil or criminal; 
Third: Persons committed on mesne. process in any civil action
on which they were liable to be arrested and imprisoned, unless 
when excessive and unreasonable bail is required.
SEc. 3. Application for such a writ shall be made to the su­ 
preme court, if in actual session in any county, and if not, to any
justice of said court, by complaint in writing, signed by the party
for whose relief it is intended, or by some person in his behalf, set­ 
ting forth-
First. The person by whom, and the place where, the party is 
imprisoned or restrained; naming the prisoner and the person de·
taining him, if their names are known, and describing them if they
are not known ; 
Second. The cause or pretence of such imprisonment or re·
straint, according to the knowledge and belief of the persofl. ap­ 
plying;
Third. If the imprisonment or testraint is by virtue of any war· 
rant or other process, a copy thereof shall be annexed, or it shall be 
made to appear that a copy thereof has been demanded and re­
fused, or that for some sufficient reason a demand of such copy 
could not be made ; and
Fourth. The facts set forth in the complaint shall be verified by 
the oath of the person making the application, or by that of some
other credible witness; which oath may be administered ~y ~he 
court or justice to whom the application is made, or by any JUstice
of the peace or public notary. 
SEC. 4. The court or justice to whom such complaint· shall be
made, shall, without delay, award and issue a writ of habeas ~or·
pus ; if against any sheriff or deputy sheriff of this state, or agamst
the keeper of any jail or prison in this state, or against any mar.shal
-or deputy marshal of the United States, it shall be substantially 
-of the following form: - • 
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[ SEAL.] SC. - To {ffeeting: -
. .. We command you, that the body of of in our P!is~n, 
an y~ur custody, (or, by you imprisoned and restrained of his lib­
·erty, as the case may be,) as it is said, together with the day a~d 
cause of his taking and detaining, by whatsoever name the said
shall be called or charged, you have before our supreme 
·c~urt, holden at within and for the county of 1mme·
.d1~tely after the receipt of this writ, to do and receive. wh9:t our 
said court shall then and there consider concerning him in this be- 
ha:1f; and have there this writ. Witness, Esq., at
this day of in the year · 
And if not against such officer it shall be substantially in the
:following form: - ' 
Clerk, 
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[BEAL.] so. - To the slteriffs of our several counties and their
deputies, .. gree°ting: - 
We command you, that the body of of by of
imprisoned and restrained of his liberty, as it is said, you 
take and have before our supreme court, holden at within
and for the county of immediately after the receipt of this
writ, to do and receive whatever said court shall then consider con­
cerning him in this behalf; and summon the said then and
there to appear before our said court, to show the cause of the tak-
ing and detaining of the said and have you there this writ
with your doings thereon. Witness at this day
of in the year Clerk. 
SEC. 5. When the writ is issued by the supreme court in ses­
sion, it shall be signed by the clerk and tested like other writs in
this state ; when issued by a justice, it shall be signed by him. 
SEC. 6. If the court to which the writ is returnable shall be ad­
journed before its return, the return shall be made before any one
of the juetices of said court. If issued if a single justice, and the 
court shall be in session before its return, he may and shall ad­
journ the case into court, to be there heard and determined in like
manner as if it had been returned into the court. 
SEC. 7. If the party is confined in a common jail, or in the cus­
tody of any civil officer, the court or justice who grants the writ,
shall certify thereon the sum to be paid for the expense of bringing
him from the place of imprisonment ; and the officer to whom the
writ is directed shall not be bound to obey it unless that sum be 
paid or tendered to him. 
SEc. 8. Any person to whom the writ is directed shall receive
it, and upon payment. or tender of charges, if any be demandabls
for the execution of it, he shall make due return thereof within 
three days after receiving it. 
SEC. 9. If the writ be directed to any sheriff, deputy sheriff,
keeper of any jail, marshal or deputy marshal, as herein provided,
such officer shall state in his return thereon : - 
First. Whether he has or has not the party in his custody or
power, or under restraint; 
Second. If he has the party in his custody or power, or under
restraint, he shal1 set forth at large the authority, and the true and
whole cause of such imprisonment or restraint, with a copy of the
writ, warrant or other process, if any, upon which the party is de­
tained; and 
Third. If he has had the party in his custody or P°'":er, or
under restraint, and has transferred such custody or restraint to
another, he shall state particularly to whom, at what time, for 
what cause, and by what authority such transfer was made. If
the writ. be directed to no such officer, the person summoned shall
state the same particulars in writing to the court or justice before 
whom the writ is returnable. 
SEc. 10. The return or statement shall be signed by the person 
making it, and it shall also be sworn to by him, unless he be a
sworn public officer, and shall make the return in his official ca· 
pacity.
SE<.;. 11. The person who makes the return or statement, shall 
at the same time bring the body of the party, if in his custody or
power, or under his restraint, according to the command of the
writ, unless prevented by the sickness or infirmity of the party. 
SEC. 12. When, from the sickness or infirmity of the party, he
cannot, without danger, be brought to the place appointed for_ th_e 
return of the writ, that fact shall be stated in the return ; and if it
be proved to the satisfaction of the court or justice, the said cou~
or justice may proceed to the jail or other place where the party is
confined, and there make the examination; or may adjourn the
same to another time, or may make such other order in the case as 
law and justice shall require. 
SEc. 13. When the writ of habeas corpus is returned, the court
or justice shall, without delay, proceed to examine the causes of 
the imprisonment or restraint; but the examination may be ad·
journed from time to time as circumstances may require. 
SEC. 14. When it appears, from the return of the writ o~ other·
wise, that the party is detained on any process under which any
other person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment or~~­
straint, the party shall not be discharged until sufficient no~1ce
shall have been given to such other person or his attorney, if with·
in the state, or within thirty miles of the place of examination,. to
appear and object to such discharge if he thinks fit; which n~t1ce
shall be given by the party imprisoned, in the manner prescribed
by the court or justice ; or in default thereof he shall be remanded 
to the custody of the person against whom the writ of habeas
corpus issued, 
_8Ec. 15. When it appears from the return of the writ or_ other·
wise, that the party is imprisoned on any criminal accusat101~, he
shall not be discharged until sufficient notice shall have been given
to the attorney-general, or to the complainant in the m,atter, t~at
he ~ay appear and object to the discharge, if he thinks tit; which
no~1ce shall be given by the party imprisoned, in the manner pre·
scribed by the court or justice ; or in default thereof he sha~l be
remanded to the custody of the person against whom the writ of
habeas corpus issued. 
SEC. 16. The party imprisoned or restrained may deny any of
the facts set forth iu the return or statement, and may alle~e a_ny
other facts that may be material in the case; and the court or _Justi~.e
shall proceed in a summary way to examine the causes of 11npri:;·
onment or restraint, and to hear the evidence that may be produced
by any person interested and authorized to appear, both in support
of s~ch imprisonment or restraint and against it, and thereupon 
to dispose of the party as law and justice shall require. 
SEc. 17. If no legal cause can be shown for the imprisonment
or restraint, the court or justice shall discharge the party therefr0~· 
SEc. 18. If the party is detained for any cause or offence. tor
which he is bailable of right, he shall be admitted to bail if sufficient 
bail be offered ; and if not, he shall be remanded, with an order of
the court or justice, expressing the sum in which he shall be held
to bail, and the court at which he shall be required to appear; and
any justice of the peace authorized thereto may, at any time before
the sitting of said court, bail the party pursuant to such order. 
SEc. 19. If the party is committed on mesne process in any civil
action, for want of bail, and if it shall appear that the sum for which
bail is required is excessive and unreasonable, the court or justice
shall decide what bail is reasonable, and shall order, that on giving
such bail the party shall be discharged. 
SEC. 20. If the party is lawfully imprisoned or restrained and is
not entitled to be enlarged on giving bail, he shall be remanded to
the person from whose custody he was taken, or to such other per·
son or officer as by law is authorized to detain him. 
SEc. 21. Until judgment be given, the court or justice may re·
mand the party, or may bail him to appear from day to day, or
may commit him to the sheriff of the county, or place him under
such other care and custody as the circumstances of the case may
require. 
SEc. 22. Any officer who shall refuse or neglect, for six hours,
to deliver a true copy of the warrant or process, by which he de·
tains any prisoner, to any person who shall demand such eopy, and
tender the fees therefor, shall forfeit and pay t.o 1\ldl p,,iwner the
sum of one hundred dollars. · . 
SEC. 23. H any person to whom such writ of babeas OOIFUB shall
be directed, shall refuse to receive the same, or shall neglect to
obey and execute it according to the provisions of this chapter,
and no sufficient excuse shall be shown for such refusal or neglect,
the court or justice before whom the writ is returnable shall proceed
forthwith, by process of attachment as for a contempt, to compel
obedience to the writ, and to punish the person guilty of the con·
tempt. 
SEc. 24. If such attachment shall be issued against a sheriff or
his deputy, it may be directed to any town sergeant, or to any
other person, to be designated therein, who shall have full power 
to execute the same ; and if the sheriff or deputy should be com·
mitted upon such process, he may be committed to the jail of any
other county than his own. 
8Ec. 25. Upon such refusal or neglect of the person ~ whom
the writ of habeas corpus is directed, the court or justice may
also issue a precept to any officer or other person designated ~her~in,
commanding him to bring forthwith before such court or Justice,
the person for whose benefit the writ of habeas corpus was issued ;
and the prisoner shall be thereupon discharged, bailed or remanded, 
in like manner as if he had been brought in upon the writ of habeas 
corpus. 
SEc. 26. Every person guilty of such refusal or neglect. to receive
and execute a writ of habeas corpus, shall moreover forfeit and pay
to the party aggrieved thereby, a sum not exceeding one thousand 
dollars. 
8Ec. 27. If any one who has in custody or under his power any 
person entitled to any writ of habeas corpus, whether any writ has
issued or not, shall, with intent to elude the service of such writ,
or to avoid the effect thereof, transfer such prisoner to the custody,
or place him under the power or control of any other person, or
conceal him, or change the place of his confinement, the person so
offending shall forfeit and pay to the party aggrieved thereby a sum
not exceeding one thousand dollars. 
SEC. 28. The recovery of any penalty imposed by this chapter
shall not bar any action at the common law for false imprisonment,
or for false return to the writ of habeas corpus, or for any other
injury or damage sustained by the aggrieved party. 
SEc. 29. No person who has been discharged upon a writ of
habeas corpus shall be again imprisoned or restrained for the
same cause, unless he shall be indicted therefor, or convicted thereof,
or committed for want of bail by some court of record having juris­
diction of the cause; or unless after a discharge for defect of proof,
or for some material defect in the commitment, in a criminal case,
.he shall be again arrested on sufficient proof, and committed by 
legal process for the same offence. 
SEc. 30. Nothing .contained in this chapter shall be construed 
to restrain the power of the supreme court, or any one of the jus­
tices thereof, to issue a writ of habeas corpus at their discretion i 
and thereupon te bail any person, for whatever cause he may .be
committed or restrained, or to discharge him, as law and justice
shall require. · 
SEC. 31. When any person is committed to jail on any criminal
accusation, for want of bail, any justice of the supreme court, or 
an.y justice of the peace of the same county, specially app?in~ed by
said supreme court, or by either justice thereof, may admit him to
~ail in like manner as might have been done by the court or mag·
istrate who committed him; and the said justices respectively, shall
have power to issue a writ of habeas corpus, and to cause such
prisoner to be brought before them, when it shall be necessary for 
the purpose expressed in this section. 
SEc. 32. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed
to restrain the power of any court to issue a writ of habeas corpus, 
w~en necessary to bring before them any prisoner for trial, _in a~y
criminal case lawfully pending in the same court; or to brrng. in 
a!1~ priso~er. to he examined as a witness in any suit or proc.eedrng,
civil or criminal, pending in such court, when they shall think the
personal attendance and examination of the witness necessary for 
the attainment of justice. 
SECTION 1. The widow of any person dying intestate, or other­
wise, shall be endowed of one full and equal third part of all the
lands, tenements and hereditaments, whereof her husband, or any
other to his use, was seized of an estate of inheritance, at any time
during the intermarriage, to which she shall not have relinquished
her right of dower by deed, except in the cases provided for in the 
twenty-first section of this chapter. 
SEc. 2. Of inheritances that are entire, where no division can 
be made by metes and bounds, so that a woman can be endowed
of the thing itself, and of woodlands, she shall be endowed in a
special and certain manner, as of a third part of the rents, issues,
growth or profits thereof, to be computed and ascertained in man­
ner by this chapter directed. 
SEc. 3. Where dower is legally demandable in more than one
lot or parcel of land belonging to the same person, such assign­ 
ment n~ed not be of a part of each lot or pa~cel, but may ~e to­
gether m one lot, as the interest and convemence of the widow
and the heir or person having the next immediate estate of free­ 
hold shall require. 
SEc. 4. The heir or person having the next immediate estate of
freehold in all or any of the lands, tenements or hereditaments
which belonged to the deceased during the intermarriage, wher~of
the widow is dowable, may, in writing and under his hand, ass1~n
and set off to such widow her dower or just third part of and m
all such lands, tenements and hereditaments, according to the pro- 
visions of this chapter, at any time after the decease of the
husband. 
SEC. 5. The tenant in possession, though having hut a term for
years, first giving notice to the owner or owners of the next estate
of freehold or inheritance, and inviting them to join with him, if
they will, in assigning and setting .off dower, may, upon demand
of the widow upon him and them, assign and set off dower as
aforesaid ; and the same, if fairly and honestly done, shall bind
his landlord or co-tenants of the freehold and all others. 
SEC. 6. Until such dower be assigned or until she elect to re· 
ceive her jointure in lieu of dower, it shall be lawful for any widow
to remain and continue in the mansion-house, and the messuage 
thereto belonging, without being chargeable to pay the heir a~y
rent for the same : Provided she bring her writ of dower withm
twelve months after the probate of the will or the granting of 
letters of administration on her husband's estate. 
SEC. 7. If after one month's demand; made by the widow, of
the persons empowered to set off dower, the same shall not be set
off to her in all the lands, tenements and hereditaments in which
they are empowered to set off the same, or the dower assigned and
set off shall be less in value than the widow is entitled to, or shall
be assigned and set off in a manner inconsistent with the provis·
ions and true intent of this chapter, such widow may sue for and
recover her dower and damages for the detention of the same by
writ of dower, to be brought either against the tenant in posses·
sion, or the tenant or tenants of the estate of freehold subsisting at 
the time of the demand. 
SEC. 8. The leaving of the demand with the tenant or person i~
possession of the premises out of which dower is demanded, or, if
no person be in possession, the posting up of the same in any con·
spicuous place upon the premises, shall be sufficient service of the
demand upon all persons not within the state at the time of such
demand. 
SEc. 9. Whenever judgment for dower shall be rendered by any 
court of common pleas in favor of a plaintiff in an action of d~wi:r,
the said judgment shall set forth the manner in which the plamtiff
shall be endowed ; and either party aggrieved by such jud~ment
may appeal therefrom to the next term of the supreme court in the
same county. 
SEC. 10. If no such appeal be prayed in open court within two
days after such judgment, the same shall be final, and sha~ ~nu?l
the dower before that time set off and assigned to the plaintiff 
the case, if any had been set off and assigned. . 
SEC. 11. When final judgment for dower shall be reudere~ in 
any action of dower in favor of the plaintiff, the court renderrng
the same shall appoint three disinterested commissioners, wh? shall
be under oath, to be administered by said court, or by any Justice
of the peace or public notary, equally and impartially to set _forth
by ~etes an~ bounds, or to ascertain in the special manner po111ted
out m such Judgment, the dower of the plaintiff, and also the dam· 
10 
ages sustained by the plaintiff by detention thereof after demand
therefor. 
SEc. 12. Said commissioners shall appoint time and place to
meet the parties in the said action, and give them notice thereof;
and at such time and place, notwithstanding the absence of either
or both of said parties, and unless good cause is shown, proceed to
discharge their duties and make report of the same under their
hands with a plat of the premises and of the dower set off, if set 
off by metes and bounds, as soon as may be, to the court appoint­
ing them. 
SEc. 13. No sufficient cause to the contrary being shown, said
court shall confirm said report, and enter up judgment according
to the same, and Issue a writ of execution for said damages, and
to put the plaintiff in possession of her dower or perception of
rents and profits, as the case may require. 
SEc. 14. Such execution shall not be issued until after the plain­
tiff produces to the court, or clerk, if the court be adjourned, a cer­
tificate that the judgment of said court, confirming said report, has
been duly recorded in the office of the town clerk of the town in
which the premises lie ; the expense of which shall make part of
the costs in the action of dower. 
SF.c. 15. No act.ion of dower shall abate by the death of the de­
fendant named therein, where the defendant is tenant of the free­
hold, if the property passes by devise or descent from him ; but
such death being suggested, the heir or devisee shall be summoned
to appear at the same or at the next term, in the discretion of the
court in which the action is pending, and take upon him the de­
fence of the suit; and the suit shall proceed against him in the
flame manner as if he had been the original defendant, 
SEc. 16. Any court of probate in this state which shalJ have
granted letters of administration or letters testamentary on the
estate of any deceased person, shall have power, upon the joint
application of the widow of the deceased, and of all the heirs at
law or devisees having the next immediate estate of freehold, and
all persons interested in all or any of the lands, tenements or
hereditaments, lying within this state, which belonged to the de­
ceased during his intermarriage, whereof such widow is dow­
able, to cause her dower therein to be assigned and set off to 
her. 
SEC. 17. When such an application shall be made to such cou_rt
of probate, said court, upon hearing the parties thereto, shall, m
the first instance, decree in what manner the dower ought to be
assigned in the premises described in the application, whether by
metes and bounds or in some special and certain manner as set
forth in the second section of this chapter ; and any person
a~grieved by such decree may appeal therefrom to the next _term
of the supreme court to be holden in the same countr ; but if .no
~ppeal be made within the time prescribed by law, or if the part1~s · 
in writing within that time waive their right to appeal, then said
decree shall be final. 
SEc. 18. Upon the rendering of a final decree on such applica- 
tion, prescribing the manner in which the dower shall be assigned,
the court rendering the same shall appoint three disinterested men,
who shall have and exercise the same duties and powers, and in
the same manner and under the same restrictions as though they
were appointed to set off dower in an action of dower according to
the provisions of this chapter; and their report being made to said
court, like proceedings shall be had thereon, and with like effect as 
in an action of dower. 
SEC. 19. No damages for detention of dower shall be allowed
on such application, nor shall any appeal be had from a decree of
a court of probate affirming any report to said court, made by the
men appointed to set off dower upon such application. 
SEc. 20. No woman who shall be endowed of any lands, tene­ 
ments, or hereditaments as aforesaid, shall commit or suffer any
strip or waste thereon, upon penalty of forfeiting the whole of that
part of the estate upon which such strip or waste shall b~ made,
and the damages assessed for waste, to him who has the irnmedi­
ate estate of freehold or inheritance, remainder or reversion, by an
action of waste to be brought therefor ; and all tenants in dower
shall maintain the houses and tenements, with the fences and ap­
purtenances whereof they may be endowed, in good repair during
the term, and shall leave them so at the expiration thereof. 
SEC. 21. If any estate, real or personal, be conveyed by de~d, ?r
the same be devised or. bequeathed for the jointure of the w~fe m 
lieu of her dower, to take effect in her own possession immed1ate)y
on the death of her husband, and to continue during her life, or m
fee, determinable by such acts only as would forfeit her dower ~t 
the common law, such conveyance shall bar her d?wer of t~e rest­ 
due of the lands, tenements and hereditaments which her said bus·
band at any time possessed: but if the said conveyance was
before marriage and during the infancy of the woman, or a~ter
marri~&e, in either case the widow may, at her election, waive
such jointure, and demand her dower : Provided, the same be ~on.e
in writing within twelve months after the probate of the will, if
there be one, and if not, then within twelve months after the grant·
ing of letters of administration on her deceased husband's estate. 
SEc. 22. When any conveyance or devise intended to be in lieu
of dower shall, through any defect, fail to be a· legal bar thereto,
and the widow availing herself of such defect, shall demand her
dower, the estate so conveyed with intention to bar her dower, 
shall thereupon cease and determine . 
. • SEC. 23. If any widow be lawfully expelled or evicted from her
jointure, or any part thereof, without any fraud or eovm, by _lawful
entry or action, she shall be endowed of so much of the residue of 
her husband's lands, tenements and hereditarnents whereof she
was dowable, as the same lands, tenements or hereditaments, 
wherefrom she was so evicted and expelled shall amount and
extend to. 
SEc. 24. Widows may bequeathe the crops as well of .their
dower as of their other lands and tenements; and if any widow
shall erect any fence on or around her dower land, her executors or 
~dministrat:ors may enter thereon and remove the same: doing as
little damage as may be to the freehold, at any time within six
months after the death of such widow. 
OF PARTITION OF EST ATES rn COMMON AND JOINT-TEN.ANCY
AND OF OTHEU. ACTIONS COXCEH.NING SUCH I~STATES. , 
SECTIO~ 
I. Actions bronght by tenants in com­
mon, and who to join in 811 plaintiffs. 
2, 3 and 4. Who compellable to make par­
tition of estates in common, &c., and
by whom. 
5. How pnrtition made, in case rever­
sioner or remainder-man joins in suit, 
and effect of tenant for life or years, on. 
6. Suit for, where brought when joint
estate situated in two or more coun­
ties. 
7. Notice of to non-resident, how may be
~iven, and effect of. 
8. Service of writ or subpeena, how made
on persons temporarily absent. 
9. Proceedings in caso of temporary ab­
sence of defendant. 
10. Proceedings i.n case omission of party
is pleaded. 
11. Proceedings in, in case of defendant I 
infant, non compos, &c.
12. Proceedings in, in case of death of I 
party. • I 
13. Of voluntary appearance in, of heirs
or devisees. 
SECTION 1. In actions of ejectrnent or other actions concerning
any estate holden or claimed in coparcenary, common or joint-ten· 
ancy, where the possession of such estate claimed is the object of
the suit, the same may be commenced by all or any two or more
of the coparceners, tenants in common, or joint-tenants, or the
same may be brought by each one for his particular share of such
estate ; and the same rules shall prevail in actions of trespass for 
mesne profits. 
CHAPTER ~3. 3 , a. 1, J J t jt f. 
SEC. 2. All joint-tenants, coparceners and tenants in common,
who now are or hereafter may be actually seized or pos.~esse<l of 
~ny estate of inheritance in any lands, tenements or here<l1taments,
m their own right, or in the right of their wives, may be com·
pelled to make partition between them of such lands, tenements 
and hereditaments, by writ of partition. 
1 
SECTION 
14. Parties in, may severally plead. 
15. Shares in joint estate, how may be set
off'. 
16. Joint estate, when may be sold by court
of equity, for partition of. 
17. Who bound by sale, and how persons
interested made parties to decree for. 
18. Proceeds of sale, how to be disposed of. 
19. Of costs in actions for partition. 
20. Costs a lien on joint estate, and lien
how may be enforced. 
21. Of appeal in actions at law for parti­
tion, and of appointment of commis­
sioners to make partition. 
22. Of notice to be given by commission- 
en. 
23. Of notice by, in ease of non-resident,
absent or unknown parties. 
24. Of report of commissioners, how made,
of judgment, &c., and record of. 
25. Of judgment in supreme court in par­ 
tition, on appeal, and proceedings
thereupon. 
SEc. 3. All joint-tenants, coparceners and tenants in common,
who now are or hereafter may be actually seized or possessed of
any estate for life or years, in any lands, tenements or heredita­
merits, in their own right, or in the right of their wives, may be 
compelled to make partition between them of such lands, tene­
ments and hereditaments, to continue until the estate of some of
the parties to the same shall determine, and no longer, by writ of
partition. 
SEC. 4. All joint-tenants, coparceners and tenants in common,
who now are or hereafter may be actually seized or possessed of
any estate for life or years, in any lands, tenements or heredi!a·
ments, in their own right., or in the right of their wives, with
others who have estates of inheritance in possession in the same
lands, tenements and hereditarnents, may compel or be compelled
to make partition of such lands, tenements and hereditaments, to
continue until the estate of some of the parties shall determine, 
and no longer, by writ of partition. . 
SEc. 5. If the tenant in reversion or remainder in fee join with
the said tenant for life or years in compelling partition of any such
lands, tenements or hereditaments, against the other co-tenants, 
the partition shall be of the whole estate and binding on the heirs
and assigns of all parties; and no such action shall abate by the
deat h of the tenant for life or years, or the expiration of the ~rm
for years; but the surviving plaintiff may prosecute the said action 
to final judgment and execution. . 
SEc. 6. Partition of real estate holden in joint-tenancy or in
common, and situate in two or more counties in this state, may be 
sued for by action at law or by bill in equity in either county ~n
which any of the real estate is situate ; and such action or bill
shall be conducted in the same manner in all respects as if all the 
real estate therein named was situate in the same county. 
SEc. 7. In suits at law, or in equity, for partition of real estate, 
!11 which it may. be alleged or may appear, that any party o~ person
m!erested therein, not a party plaintiff, may not be a resident of 
!his state, or where it is alleged or may appear, that any person
~nterested has left this state, and it may not be knov:rn wh~re he 
is, or whether alive or dead, and if dead, whether leavrng clu.ldren
or not, or that some person unknown to the plaintiff may be inter­
ested therein, the court before whom the suit is pending may order 
notice. to be given to any such party or person, by or~ering ~ co~y
of their order to be published in some newspaper printed 1ll this 
state for such length of time as they may deem proper; and n1ay
also, in their discretion, order letters post paid and directed to such
party, or person, to be deposited in the post-office; and, where
noti~e is given as ordered by the court, they may proceed and ren­
der Judgment in said suit in the same manner and with the same
etfe:'t as if such party or person had received actual or personal 
notice, or had appeared and answered to the suit. . 
81,:c. 8. If 11 person named defendant in a writ or bill for part.I·
tion, being an inhabitant of this state, shall be temporarily ahse~t 
therefrom, so that, although it may be known where he i::1, the writ 
or subpoena cannot be personally served upon him, legal service
thereof may be made by leaving a copy thereof with the tenant in
possession of the estate whereof partition is demanded, if any
there be. 
SEC. 9. If such defendant doth not appear to answer !:IUCh suit,
the cause shall be continued, or delayed until his return: Provided, 
the same happen on or before the second day of the term next
succeeding that at which, or first after which, said proceeding shall
have been commenced; at which term, if such defendant do not
appear to answer the suit, the court shall appoint some discreet
and disinterested person as agent of such defendant, whose duty it 
shall be to defend such suit ; and in case judgment shall be ren­
dered for partition, to attend to the partition to be made, and
therein take care of the interest of the person for whom he shall
have been appointed agent as aforesaid. 
SEc. 10. In any action of partition, if any person who ought to
be a party to such action, shall be omitted in the writ, the writ or
process in such action shall not be thereby abated; but in case the
same is pleaded, a summons shall issue to the person thus omitted,
which shall be served in manner prescribed by law, at. least twenty
days before trial; who may come in and defend in the same man·
ner as though he had been originally made a party to such action;
and if the per~on thus summoned shall appear, or shall neglect to
appear, his name may be inserted in the process by the court; and
judgment shall be rendered in such action in the same manner as
if such person had been originally a party in the writ. 
SEc. 11. If, in any such action, the defendant shall be an infant,
non compos mentis, or otherwise incapacitated to take care of his
right and estate, it shall be the duty of the court before which such
action shall be pending, to appoint some discreet and disinterested 
person as guardian to defend such infant, non compos mentis, or 
otherwise incapacitated person against such suit; and in case of
Judgment for partition, to attend to the partition to be made, and
therein take charge of the interest of the person for whom he shall
be appointed guardian. 
SEc. 12. No action of partition shall be abated by the decease
of either of the parties, plaintiffs or defendants, in such action. In 
case of the decease of either of the plaintiffs or defendants in such
action, the court shall cause the heirs at law or devisees of such
deceased party to be notified of the pendency of such suit, in the 
sa~e m~nner as if they had been parties in th~ original w~it in
said action, and may, after, such notice shall be given, render Judg­
ment in said suit in the same manner as might have been done had 
such heirs or devisees been original parties in said ac~ion. .
Ssc. 13. If such heirs or devisees shall voluntarily appear m 
court without such notice, the court may proceed wit~out further
~elay, to try, render judgment, and proceed thereon, in such ac­ 
tion.
8F.c. 1-l. In actions of partition against several defendants. each 
of the defendants may answer severally; or any tw<:> or mo~e may
answer jointly; and in their answers set forth the right or interest 
which they and each of them have in the estate for the partition of
which the action is commenced. 
SEC. 15. In suits for partition, at law or in equity, the court may 
order the share of any plaintiff or of any defendant, or of any two
or more of the parties plaintiff and defendant, to be set off to him 
or them, dividing the remainder, or leaving it undivided, in their
discretion. 
Sr:c. 16. In suits in equity for partition, the supreme court may, 
in their discretion, upon motion of any party to such suits, whether
such suit be now pending, or be hereafter commenced, order the
whole premises sought to be divided, or any particular lot, portion
or tract thereof, or the interest of the plaintiff or plaintiffs or of the
defendant or defendants in the whole premises, or in any particular
lot, portion or tract thereof, to be sold at public auction, under the 
direction of the court, by the commissioners appointed to divide the
same. 
8Ec. 17. No person interested in the estate and not a party to
the suit, shall be bound bv such sale ; but the court may, upon
motion proceed to make ail persons interested in said estate, par·
ties thereto, though non-residents, absent or unknown, in the ma1~­
ner hcreinbefore provided; in which case, if the whole or their
shares of the estate be ordered to be sold, said decree shall forever
thereafter, in favor of the purchaser of said estate or shares, an<l of
those claiming under or by virtue of him, be binding upon such
non-resident, absent, or uuknowu persons, thouzh not appearing to
said suit. 
0 
SEc. 18. In case of such sale, the proceeds of sale shall be ?ivi·
ded, under the direction of the court, between the parties ent.1tled
thereto, in lieu of their interest in the land, or interest in the [and
ordered or decreed to be sold ; and the portion of the rrocce<ls ~f
sale to which any party or person unknown, or absent from this 
sta~c, uud not appearing to claim the same, may be entitled, ~1ay 
be invested for such per::1011 by the commissiouers, under the direc­
tion of the court, an<l in such name as the court may direct, after
deducting from such portion, such party or person's rea:-ouable
share of the costs and expenses of partition, to be allowed by the
court. to those entitled thereto. In all cases, such investment ?n<l 
the further disposition of the same, and the deposit and <lisposmon
to be made of the evidence thereof, shall be subject only to the
order and control of the court. 
SEc. 19. In actions of partition, as well as in suits in e~uity for
th~ same, the court before which the same may be pending 1_nay 
ad.1mlgc and determine, as to them shall appear equitable and .JU?t.,. 
relative to the apportionment of costs among the parties, plm_nuft
and defendant, by dividing the same equally, or subjecting either 
party to the payment of the whole or auy part thereof- 
tiEC. 20. ln suits for partition either at law Of equity, the costs
of partition, in such proportion as the court trying the same shall
adjudge to be paid by any party or parties to said suit, shall be a
lien _upon the interest of a11y party or parties in the several share~
to tum or them assigned ; and, in addition to the mode of recovery 
now used, may be recovered by sale of said several shares upon
execution to be issued in due form therefor, in favor of the party or
parties who may, by payment of said costs, be entitled to recover 
the same. 
SEc. 21. In actions at law for partition, either party may appeal
from the judgment of the court of common pleas that partition
shall be made ; but if no such appeal shall be prayed in open court
within two days next after such judgment, the same shall be final;
and it shall be the duty of such court thereupon, on the motion· of
the plaintiff in such writ of partition, to appoint and commission,
at their discretion, one or more discreet, impartial and disinterested
persons, to make partition pursuant to such judgment, who shall 
be sworn to the faithful discharge of their trust. 
SEC. 22. It shall be the duty of the persons so appointed, first
giving reasonable notice to the respective parties, to make partition
between them, according to their several rights, as ascertained by
the judgment of the court ordering such partition. 
SEC. ~. In case non-resident, absent or unknown parties or per­
sons be interested in such partition, and whether the commission
to make partition issue at law or in equity, the court issuing the
same may order such notice to be given to such parties or persons
interested, by the commissioners appointed to make. partition, as
said court may judge proper; and the same, when given, shall, for
all purposes, be as effectual as personal notice. 
SBC. 24. In actions at law for partition, the commissioners ap­
pointed to make the same shall report their proceedings, with a
plat of the division by them made, to the court by whom they shall
have been appointed; and if no sufficient cause shall be shown for
rejecting the Raid report, judgment shall be rendered theredh in
conformity thereto; and said report, plat and judgment shall be re­
corded in the office of the town clerk of the town or towns in which
said estate may be; the expense of which record shall be made a
part of the costs in said action. 
SEc. 25. If an appeal from any judgment of the court of com­
mon pleas for making partition shall be prayed as aforesaid, and
on hearing of the case before the supreme court, judgment shall
therein be rendered for partition, it shall be the duty of said supreme
court, in like manner, to appoint and commission, at their dis­
cretion, one or more discreet, impartial and disinterested per~ons,
to make partition pursuant to the judgment of said court, who shall
cause partition to be made in like manner, and under the same
regulations as are above prescribed in case the said judgment for
partition had been rendered in the court of common pleas ; and 
'Y~enever any judgment of any court of common pleas fo~ par­
tition shall be confirmed by the supreme court, on the complaint of 
~ny }?arty not appealing therefrom, similar proceedings shall be had
in said supreme court. 
SECTIO~ 1. If any person who shall be seized _of any real estate
for the term of his own life, or for the life or lives of any oth~r
person or persons, or as a tenant for years, shall commit or suffer
any waste on such estate, he shall forfeit his estate in the place so 
w asted, and double the amount of the waste so done or suffered
to be recovered in an action of waste by the person entitled to the 
next estate in remainder or reversion, in the place so wasted.
Sac, 2. If any joint-tenant, tenant in common or coparcener, 
shall commit any waste on any estate by him holden in joint-ten­
ancy, tenancy in common or coparcenary, without the consent of 
the other joint-tenants, tenants in common or coparceners, he shall 
forfei\ double the amount of the waste so done, to be recovered by 
the other joint-tenants, tenants in common or coparceners, to their
own use. 
SEc. 3. In such case it shall be lawful for any one or more of 
the other joint-tenants, tenants in common or eoparceners, to com·
meuce an action for the same in the name of all the joint-tenants, 
tenants in common or coparceners. . 
SEc. 4. If any person named as plaintiff without his consent
shall neglect to appear after being duly notified, in such man.ner as
the court shall direct, his name shall be stricken· from the writ and
pleadin~s, and the others shall have a right to prosecute the sam.e
to final Judgment and execution, in their own names and for their 
own use . 
. Ssc, 5. The supreme court in any county, and each of_ t~~ jus­
tic~s thereo_f in vacation, on the application of the plaiutIH, Ill an
achoo of ejectment, trespass and ejectment, partition ~r waste, ai:e
hereby empowered, under the provisions following, to 1ss_ue ~ writ 
of esrrepement, directed to the sheriff or to his deputies 1_11 the
county in which the estate in question may be, requiring him t? 
stay all the waste on the estate that shall be described in such wnt
of estrcperncnt, 
Sze. 6. The sheriff or his deputy charged with the service of
such writ, shall have power to sta/all waste, as shall be directed 
in such writ, and to take such aid as shall be necessary for that
purpose. 
SEC, 7. Upon the application of any party for a writ of estrepe­
ment, said court or justice, before issuing the same, shall cause the
party whose interests may be affected thereby, to be notified of the
pendency of such application in such manner and mode as said
court or justice may deem proper, to the end that the party so to
be affected by, as well as the party applying for, said writ, may be
heard in the premises. Upon such hearing, the said court or jus­
tice may, in their discretion, issue or refuse to issue said writ, in
the same manner as courts of equity grant or refuse to grant in­
junctions in like cases. 
SEC. 8. The said court or justice may, on said hearing, and be­
fore the issuing of said writ, require of the party applying for the
same, bond with sufficient surety, and in such sum as said court
or justice may prescribe, to make good to the party whose interests
may be affected by said writ, all loss and damage which he may
suffer by reason of the issuing of said writ ; if said court or jus­
tice, in their discretion, judge that the circumstances of the case or
the rights of the parties require such bond to be given. . 
SEC. 9. If such writ of estrepernent shall be issued by the court,
it shall be returnable at such time as the court shall direct ; and if
such writ shall be issued by a justice of said court, it shall be re­
turnable to the next term of said court within and for the county
in which the estate lies, which is described therein. 
OF THE ACTION AGAINST TENANTS AND OF NOTICES TO QUIT. 
SECT JOY 
~DAPTER H3. 
1. Notice to quit to tenants at will, &c.
what. 
2. To tenants by parol from year to
year, what. 
3. To tenants by parol for terms less
than a year, what. 
SECTION 
4. Notice by such tenants to landlord,
what. 
5. Notice to quit to and by tenants by
written lease. 
6. Of landlord, right to possession in
case of non-payment of rent. 
7. Of remedy to recover possession. 
SECTION 1. Tenants of lands or tenements at will or by suffer­
ance, shall quit upon notice in writing from the lessor or owner, at
the day named therein. 
SEc. 2. Tenants by parol, of house, tenement or m.essuage, or. of
farm and farming lands from year to year, shall quit upon notice
in writing from the lessor or owner, given at least three months 
prior to the expiring of the occupation year.
8.Bc. 3. Tenants by parol of houses, tenements, messuage~, 
farms or farming lands, for any term less than a year, shall qwt 
upon notice in writing from the lessor or owner given at least half
the period of the term not exceeding in any case three months
prior to the expiration of the same, at any return thereof. 
SEC. 4. To terminate leases at will or by sufferance or by parol,
like notice shall be given by the tenant, if he would be quit of the
same, as is prescribed to be given by the lessor or owner; and
such notice shall have the same effect for all purposes as if given 
by the lessor or owner to the tenant. 
SEC. 5. The time named in a definite written lease shall be the
time of the termination thereof for all purposes; and if there be
no time of termination named therein, it shall be deemed a letting
from year to year, and the like notice to quit shall be required
both from landlord and tenant, if either would be quit of the lease,
as in case of let.ting by parol, and such notice from either shall 
have the like effect, . 
SEC. 6. If in any case of letting of lands or tenements, whether
by writing or parol, the stipulated rent or any part of the same, be 
in arrear for the period of six months after demand made of th_e
same from the tenant or his assigns by the lessor or person enti­ 
tled to the reversion, the landlord or reversioner may re-enter and
repossess himself of the lands and tenements let, or recover posses·
sion of the same from the tenant or his assignee discharged from 
the lease. 
SEC. 7. The lessor or owner of lands or tenements shall be enti­
tled to recover the same upon termination of the letting of the same, 
in manner aforesaid, either by ordinary process of ejectrnent- or in
the manner prescribed for recovery of possession of tenements or
estates from those who hold over the term of letting, in chapter 
one hundred and sixty-seven. 
CHAPTER "°6. 
OF TRESPASSES. 
SECTION I SECTION 
1. Of d~uble damages for cutting, &c. 2. Of proof in s~ch action, unless defend·
growmg trees, &c., and of action to ant purges himself under oath.
recover tho same. · 
SEC:ION 1. If any person shall cut, destroy, or carry away any 
tree, timber, wood or underwood whatever, lying or growing on
the land of any other person, without leave of the owner t_hereof, 
he shall for every such trespass, pay the party injured, twice the
value of any tree so cut, destroyed or carried away; and for the
wo?d or underwood, treble the value thereof; to be recovered br 
action of trespass before any justice of the peace in the county, if
the damages exceed not the sum of fifty dollars ; bat if t.hey be 
above that value, then before the supreme court, or court of com­
mon pleas in the same county, as the case may be. 
SEc. 2. In case any dispute shall arise upon any action brought
as aforesaid, where the plaintiff shall charge the defendant in tres­
pass, with cutting, destroying, or carrying away any particular tree,
parcels of timber, wood or underwood, off or from any such land
as aforesaid, or of being aiding or assisting therein, then in such
case, if the plaintiff, his agent or attorney shall make oath that
there have been cut, destroyed or carried away, such and so many
trees, parcels of wood or underwood, as mentioned in the writ, and
that he suspects the defendant to have committed the said tres­
pass, although the plaintiff, his agent or attorney may not be able
to produce any other evidence thereof than such circumstances as 
render it highly probable in the judgment of the justice or such
other court before whom the .trial is, then and in such case, unless
the defendant shall acquit hirnself upon oath, to be administered
to him by the court or justice who shall try the cause, the plain­
tiff shall recover against the defendant, damages and costs : but if
the defendant shall acquit himself upon oath as aforesaid, the
court or justice before whom the trial is, shall enter up judg­
ment for the defendant, to recover against the plaintiff, double his
costs occasioned by such prosecution. 
OF PROCEEDINGS IN FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER. 
SECTION 
CDA.PTER ~7. 
l. Complnint in, how made, and warrant
in, how issued and directed, and form
of warrant. 
2. Fonn of summons to party complained
agalnst. 
3. Summons, how and when to be served. 
4. Of impnnelling jurors; form of oath
of, and nnture of inquiry before. 
5. Verdict of jury, in case complaint
found true. 
6. Of judgment on such verdict, award 
8BCTI01' 
of writ of restitution and costs, and
form of writ. 
7. Of costs and execution for, in case
complaint not supported by verdict. 
8. No appeal from and effect of judg­
ment in. 
9. Of removal of proceeding by certiorari 
to supreme court and power of court
over. 
10. Limitation of complaint in.
11. Fees of jurors, how paid, and when to 
be taxed in costs. 
SECTION 1. \\- .. hen complaint shall be made in writing and under
oath, to a justice of the supreme court that any person hath ~a<le
unlawful and forcible entry into lands or tenements, and with a
strong hand detains the same, or that, having lawful and peaceable
entry, or peaceable entry into lands or tenements, any P:rs~n, ~n­ 
lawfully and with force bolds and detains the same, said Justice
shall make out his warrant under bis hand and seal directed to the 
sheriff of the county in which such lands or tenements lie, or to his 
deputy, commanding him in behalf of the state to cause to come 
before him, at such time and place as he may appoint within such
county, twelve good and lawful men of the same county, which 
warrant shall be in the following form, to wit: -
The stale of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[SEAL,] so. To the sheriff of the county of or to his
deputy, greeting : - 
Whereas complaint is made to me the subscriber, by
of that of upon the day.of 
at with force and arms and with a strong hand did unlaw- 
fully and forcibly enter into and upon a tract of land of him the
said in aforesaid containing acres,
bounded as follows, viz.: ( or into the messuage or tenement of him 
the said as the case may~) and him the said
with force and a strong hand as aforesaid did expel and unlawfully 
put out of the possession of the same; (or, as the case may be,
that having lawful and peaceable entry, or peaceable entry su~h
person unlawfully and with force holds and detains him the said 
out of the same.) you are hereby commanded in behalf
of the state to cause to come before us, upon the day of 
at in the said county, twelve good and lawful
men of your county, to be impanelled and sworn, to inquire into
the forcible entry and detainer, (or forcible detainer, as the case
may be,) as afore described. Given under my hand and seal the 
day of in the year .
Justice of the supreme court. 
8Ec. 2. Said justice shall also make out his summons to the
party com plained against in form following, to wit : - 
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[ SEAL.] sc. To the slteriff of our county of or to his
deputy, greeting : - 
We command you, that you summon of to ap·
pear before the subscriber at a place called in in 
the said county, on the day of at · o'clock
in the noon, then and there to answer to and ?efe~d 
against the complaint of to him exhibited; wherern said
complains that (here recite the complaint) and you are to 
make return of this writ with your doings thereon unto m.e, upon
or before the said day. Witness our said justice, the 
day of in the year .
Justice of the supreme court. 
SF.r. 3. Said summons shall be served upon the party com·
plained against, or a copy thereof left at his usual place of abode,
six days exclusive, before the day appointed by the justice for the
trial ; and if after the service of such summons the party sh~ll not
appear to defend, the justice shall proceed to the inquiry, 111 the 
same manner as if he was present. 
SEc. 4. When the jury summoned, or such other jurors as may 
be taken up on a new venire to be issued by said justice if occa­
sion should require, shall appear, they shall to the number of
twelve be impanelled to inquire into the forcible entry and de­
tainer, or forcible detainer complained of, and the justice shall lay
before them, the exhibited complaint, and shall administer to them
the following oath, to wit: - 
Foreman's oath.
You, as foreman of this jury, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that 
you will well and truly try, whether the complaint of now
laid before you is true, according to the evidence : so help you
God; ( or, this affirmation you make and give upon peril of the
penalty of perjury.) 
The oatl: of the other jurors.
The same oath which your foreman has taken on his part you 
and every one of you will well and truly observe and keep : so
help you God; (or, this affirmation you make and give upon peril
of the penalty of perjury.) 
SEC. 5. If, upon a full hearing of the cause, the jury shall find
the complaint laid before them supported by the evidence, they
shall sign and return to the justice their verdict, in form following, 
to wit:-
At a court of inquiry holden before one of the justices of the 
supreme court within and for the county of at upon
the day of in the year the jury, upon their oaths, do
find that the lands or tenements in aforesaid, bounded (or
described) as follows, (as in the complaint,) upon the day of 
in the year were in the lawful and rightful possession of
the said and that the sai<l did, upon the same day, un­
lawfolly,. with force and arms and with a strong hand, enter forcibly
into the same, and (or being lawfully upon the same) did unlaw­
fully, with force and a strong hand, hold and keep out the said 
and that he doth still continue wrongfully to detain the pos-
session from him the said whereupon the jury find, upon
their oaths aforesaid, that the said ought to have restitution
thereof without. delay. 
SEC. 6. Upon the return of verdict for the complainant as afore­
said, the justice shall enter up judgment that the complainant h::ive
r~stitution of the premises, with all costs, to be taxed by the Jus­
tice, and shall award his writ of restitution and for costs agamst 
the party complained of in form· following, to wit: -
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[SEAL.] sc, To the sheriff of our county of or to his dep- 
uty, greeting : - .
Whereas at a court of inquiry of forcible entry and detainer, 
~olden at in our county of upon the day of
~n the year before one of the justices of the supreme court, th.e
Jurors impanelled and sworn by our said justice, did return their- 
verdict in writing, signed by each of them, that was upon
the day of in the rightful possession of a certain messuage
or tract of land, (as in the verdict returned,) and that (as in the
verdict) whereupon it was considered by our said justice, that the
said should have restitution of the same; we command you,
that taking with you the power of the county if necessary, you
cause the said to be forthwith removed from the premises,
and the said to have peaceable possession of the same; and
also, that you levy of the goods and chattels and real estate of the
said the sum of being costs taxed against him on the
trial aforesaid, together with twenty-five cents more for this writ,
and also your own fees for levying the same ; and for want of such
goods and chattels or real estate of the said to be by you
found, you are commanded to take the body of the said and
him commit to our jail in in the said county of there
to remain until he shall pay the sum aforesaid, together with all
fees arising on the service of this writ, or until he is delivered by 
order of law; and make return of this writ and your doings thereon
within twenty days next coming. Witness our said justice at 
aforesaid, the day of in the year
Justice of the supreme court. 
SEC, 7. If the verdictbe that the complaint is not supported, or
the jury cannot agree upon a verdict, the defendant shall recover
his costs of the proceeding, to be taxed by the justice, who shall
award to him, in common form, execution therefor. 
SEC, 8. No appeal shall be allowed from the judgment of said
justice, nor shall a new trial be granted by him or by the supreme
court in this proceeding, nor shall such judgment be a bar to any
action thereafter brought by either party. - 
SEC. 9. Such proceeding may be removed by certiorari into the
supreme court, and be there quashed for irregularity, if any such
there be. 
SEC. 10. Complaint as aforesaid may be made within three year~
after the forcib]e entry and detainer, or ·forcible detainer complained
of be committed, and not after. 
SEC. 11. Each per:;on summoned and attending as a juror shall
be entitled to the same allowance per day for his attendance, and
for travel per mile, as for like attendance and travel in the supreme
court; to be paid in the first instance by the complainant before
the verdict shall be received, aud to be taxed in the bill of costs
against the defendant, if the verdict be against him. 
SECTION 1. When any goods or chattels of more than fifty dol­
lars value, shall be unlawfully taken or unlawfully detained from
the owner or from the person entitled to the possession thereof,
and when any goods or chattels of that value, which are attached
on mesne process or execution or warrant. of distress, are claimed
by any person other than the defendant in the suit or process in
which they are attached, such owner or other person may cause
the same to be replevied. 
SEc. 2. The writ in such case shall be substantially as follows :-
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[SEAL.] sc. To the slterijfs of our several counties and to their
deputies, Greeting:- 
We command yon, that you replevy, if to be found within your
precinct, the goods and chattels following, viz.: (here enumerate
and particularly describe them) belonging to of now
taken (detained or attached as the case may be) by of
at in the county of and them deliver unto the said
provided the same are not taken, attached or detained upon
mesne process, warrant of distress or upon execution as the prop­
erty of the said and summon the said that he appear
before our court of common pleas (or supreme court) next to be
holden at within and for the county of on the
Monday of to answer unto the said in a plea of re-
plevin ; that the said on the day of at said
unlawfully, and without justifiable cause, took the goods and c.hat­
tels of the said as aforesaid, and them unlawfully detamed
unto this day, (or unlawfully detained the goods and chattels afore­ 
said, as the case may be.) to the damage of the said as ~e
says dollars. Hereof fail not, and make true return of this 
day of this
writ with your doings thereon, together with the bond you shall 
take of the plaintiff:
Witness, Esq., at 
year 
SEc. 3. If any sheriff or deputy sheriff be party to such suit,
then the writ shall be directed to and served by either of the town
sergeants in the county in which the same is to be served. 
SEC. 4. The officer charged with the service of any such writ
.shall, before serving the same, take from the plaintiff or from
.some one in his behalf, a bond to the defendant, with sufficient
sureties in double the value of the goods and chattels to be re­ 
plevied ; with condition to prosecute the said writ of replevin to
final judgment, and to pay such damages and costs as the defend·
ant in said writ shall recover against him, and also to return and
restore the same goods and chattels in like good order and condi­
tion as when taken, in case such shall be the final judgment on
said writ 
SEC. 5. In case the defendant shall, at any time pending the
writ of replevin, be dissatisfied with the amount or the sureties in
such bond, the court before which the same shall be pending may,
on his motion, and (or cause shown, in their discretion, order the
plaintiff to give further bond or further surety ; and if the plaintiff
do not comply with said order, his action shall be dismissed, and
judgment shall be rendered for the defendant, for a return and res·
toration of the goods and chattels replevied, and for damages and
costs, the same as if the plaintiff had neglected to enter his writ 
of replevin. 
SEC. 6. Whenever any plaintiff in replevin shall neglect to enter
~nd prosecute the suit, the defendant may upon complaint, have
Judgment for a return and restoration of the goods and chattels
replevied, and damages for the taking, to the amount of six per
cent. on the penal sum of the bond, with reasonable costs; and a
writ of return and restoration thereupon accordingly. 
SEC. 7. If upon trial of the writ of replevin, judgment shall be
rendered for a return and restoration, the defendant shall recover 
!or his damages six per cent. on the penal sum of the bond, if such
Judgment shall be recovered within one year from the date of such 
writ ; but if such judgment shall be recovered after the expiration
-of one year from the date of said writ, the defendant shall have
for his damages six per cent. per annum on the penal sum of the 
bond. 
SEC. 8. If upon trial of the writ of replevin, the plaintiff shall
make good his plea, he shall recover of the defendant his reason·
able damages for the taking and detention of the goods and chat· 
tels and his costs. 
SEc. 9. If .upon trial of the writ of replevin, the plaintiff sha!l
make good his plea for part of the goods replevied, and shall fail
~ make it good as to the other part, he shall have judgment for
h1~ reasonable dar~ages for the taking and detention of the part
~dJudged to be his, and his costs; and the defendant shall have
Judgment for a return and restoration, as provided in the seventh 
in the
Clerk. 
section of this chapter, for the goods and chattels adjudged to him
with damages, to be estimated as provided in said section, accord­
ing to the relative value of such part, and all the goods and chat­
tels replevied, with or without cost at the discretion of the court;
but the court before whom such trial shall be had shall in such case
set off the damages recovered by each. 
SEc. 10. When the goods and chattels replevied shall have been
taken on execution or warrant of distress, they shall, in case of a
judgment of return and restoration, be held responsible for the
space of twenty days after the return thereof; if on mesne pro­
cess, until thirty days shall have expired after final judgment there­
on, in case judgment shall not then have been given ; but if final
judgment on mesne process shall have been given before the return,
then for the space of twenty <lays only after the return ; to the
end that the creditor at whose suit they were originaJly taken may
have a complete remedy, and the benefit of his attachment. 
SEc. 11. Whenever any action of replevin shall be _ brought
against an officer who has taken or attached goods and chattels at
the suit of a creditor, such creditor shall have the right to assume
the defence of said suit upon indemnifying the officer against
damages and costs therein, and the money recovered by way of
damages by any such officer shall be deemed to be recovered to
the use of the attaching creditor, and when received shall be paid
over to him. 
SEc. 12. The writ of return and restoration shall be substan­
tially as follows: - 
The state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. 
[SEAL.] sc. To the slteriffs of our several counties, or to their
deputies, greeting: - 
Whereas of in the county of lately re-
plevied the following goods and chattels, viz. : (here enumerate
and particularly describe them,) which of in our said
county of had unlawfully taken, (detained or attached as
the case may be,) as the said suggested, and caused the
said to be summoned to appear before om court of com­
mon pleas (or supreme court) then next to be holden at 
within and for our said county of to answer unto said
• for such. unlawful taking, (detaining or attaching, as the 
case may be,) on the Monday of . And whereas .to
our said court at their said term, begun and holden as aforesaid, 
upo~ a full hearing of the cause of the taking, (d~tainii~g or at­
ta?h.mg, as the case may be,) it appeared that the said takm~, (1e­
taining or attaching, as the case may be,) wa~ lawful and Justifi­ 
able ; whereupon it was then and there by said court considered,
th\t the same be returned and restored unto the said irre-
pleviable ; and that the said recover against the said 
the sum of dollars, damages, for his taking the same by the
said process of replevin, and his costs of defence, taxed at 
as to us appears of record, whereof execution remains to be done :
We command you therefore, that you forthwith return and restore 
44. 
the same goods and chattels unto the said and also that of
the goods and chattels and real estate of the said within
your precinct, you cause to be levied and paid unto the said
the aforesaid sums, being in the whole with twenty-five
cents more for this writ, together with your fees; and for want of
such goods and chattels or real estate of the said to be by
you found within your precinct to satisfy and pay the sums afore­
said, we command you to take the body of the said and 
him commit to our county jail in your precinct, therein to
be kept until he pay the sums aforementioned, with your fees, or
until he be discharged by the said or otherwise by order of
law. Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ and your
doings thereon to our next court of common pleas ( or supreme
court) to be holden at in our said county of on the 
Monday of next.
Witness, Esq., at 
the year 
SEC. 13. Justices of the peace shall have power to issue writs 
of replevin where the goods and chattels to be replevied are of
fifty dollars or less in value, if they were taken, attached or de·
tained in the town in which the justice dwells who issues the writ.
They are also empowered to try the same and to award execution
therein, adhering in their proceedings, as near as may be, to the
forms herein prescribed. 
:SECTION 
I. Action of, when lies between tenants
in common, &c., or joint owners of 
property real or personal.
2. Of appeal from judgment in.
3. Of the appointment, qualification and 
duties of auditors in. 
day of
this 
~RAPTER ~09 
OF ACCOUNT. 
SECTION 
4. Of powers of auditors.
5. Of judgment and costs on report, nnd 
compensation of auditors how paid.
6. Auditors act by majority, though all 
must accept and meet. 
SECTION 1. When two or more persons have and hold any e~t~te,
Interest or property, whether real or personal, in common, as joint­
tenants, tenants in common, coparceners or joint owners, and ?ne 
.or more of the owners of such common property shall take, receiv~,
·!lse or have benefit thereof, in greater proportion than his or their
.interest therein, such owner or owners, his or their executors ~ml
.administrators, shall be liable to render his or their account of the
.use and profit of such common property, to his or their fellow com·
moner or commoners, jointly or severally; and such the fellow
·commo.n~r or commoners, or any or either of them, their exec~tors 
or administrators, may and are hereby authorized to have bis or 
in
Clerk. 
their action of account against such receiver or receivers, or either
of them, as his or their bailiff or bailiffs, for receiving more than
his or their part or proportion as aforesaid. 
SEC. 2. Any defendant in such action may appeal to the next
term of the supreme. court to be holden in the same county, from
a judgment of the court of common pleas against him that he
shall account; but if no such appeal be prayed in open court,
within two days next after such judgment, the same shall be
final. 
SEC. 3. Upon rendering final judgment against the defendant in
such action that he shall account, the court rendering the Mme
shall appoint not exceeding three auditors; who, upon being sworn
by said court or any justice of the peace or public notary, to a
faithful and impartial discharge· of their duties, shall appoint a
time and place to meet the parties in said action, and to take the
account as required in said judgment, and zlve notice thereof to
said parties. - 
Sec. 4. When any defendant shall unreasonably refuse or neg·
lect to appear at the time and place assigned by said auditors, or
after appearing, shall refuse or neglect to render an account, the
auditors may award to the plaintiff the whole of his demand; and
it shall be in the power of the auditors to administer an oath to
the parties respectively, and to examine them respecting their
accounts and the matters submitted to them; and upou either of
the parties refusing to take an oath, truly to answer such questions
as shall be asked, or to answer directly to the interrogatories put to
him, it shall be in the power of the auditors to commit him to jail,
there to remain at his own charge until he consent to take such 
oath, and answer such interrogatories. 
SEc. 5. When the auditors appointed in any case shall have
made their report or award concerning the matters submitted to
them, to the court from whence they shall have received their ap­
pointment, if no legal cause shall be shown for setting aside such
award or report, judgment shall be rendered in conformity thereto,
and also for costs, including such reasonable allowance to the au­
ditors for their service as the court shall iudge proper to make; and
the said compensation to the auditors shall be paid down by the
party in whose favor final judgment shall be rendered, before he 
shall have execution on said judgment. 
SEc. 6. A major part of the auditors appointed in any case,
agreeing and signing said report or award, the same shall be .equally
binding an<l conclusive as if agreed to and signed by all ot them:
Provided, that it shall be necessary in order to give validity to such
report or award, that all the auditors shall accept of their appoint­ 
ment, and meet on the subject-matter thereof. 
