Section 1. All civil actions and suits at law and in equity which
concern the realty or any light, easement, or interest therein, or
the possession thereof, all actions of trespass for breaking and
entering the close of any plaintiff, and all actions in which the
title to real estate may be tried and determined, shall, if brought
in either division of the supreme court, be brought in the county,
and shall, if brought in a district court, be brought in the district,
where the land lies ; and where such land consists of an entire
tract lying partly in two or more counties or districts, respectively,
may be brought in any county or district, respectively, where any
portion of the land lies: Provided, that suits and proceedings in
equity, ami other matters within the jurisdiction of the appellate
division, relating to realty in Kent and Bristol counties, shall be
brought in the appellate division in Providence.
Sec. 2. All other actions and suits, if brought in either division
of the supreme court, shall be brought in the county, or, if brought
in a district court, shall be brought in the district, in which the
plaintiff or defendant or some one of the parties plaintiff or de
fendant shall dwell, or in the county or district, respectively, in
which the defendant or some one of the parties defendant shall be
found ; and if no one of the parties plaintiff or defendant shall
dwell in the state, such actions, if in either division of the supreme
court, may be brought in any county, or, if in a district court, may
be brought in any district : Provided, that suits and proceedings
in ecpiity, and other matters within the jurisdiction of the appellate
division, arising in Kent and Bristol counties, shall be brought in
said division in Providence.
Sec. 3. Personal or transitory actions and suits brought by or
against corporations shall, if brought in either division of the su
preme court, be brought either in the county, and shall, if brought
in a district court, be brought either in the district, in which the
other party or some one of the other parties dwells, or in the
county or district, respectively, in which the defendant or some
one of the parties defendant shall be found, or in which the corpo
ration is located by its charter, or, if not located by its charter, in
which the annual meetings of the corporation are required to be,
or, if not required to be, are actually holden : Provided, that suits
and proceedings in equity, and other matters within the jurisdic
tion of the appellate division, arising in Kent and Bristol counties,
shall be brought in said division in Providence.
Sec. 4. If no one of the parties plaintiff or defendant dwell
within the state, and the corporation be established out of the
state, such personal or transitory action or suit by or against it
may be brought in any county or district, respectively.
Sec. 5. All actions and suits brought contrary to the provisions
of the preceding four sections, shall be abated.
Sec. 6. No action shall be brought,—
First. Whereby to charge any person upon any contract for
the sale of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, or the making of
any lease thereof for a longer time than one year ;
Second. Whereby to charge any person upon any agreement
made upon consideration of marriage ;
Third. Whereby to charge any trustee under any express trust,
or any executor or administrator, upon his special promise to
answer any debt or damage out of his own estate ;
Fourth. "Whereby to charge any person upon his special prom
ise to answer for the debt, default, or miscarriage, of another
person ;
Fifth. Whereby to charge any person upon any agreement
which is not to be performed within the space of one year from
the making thereof ;
Unless the promise or agreement upon which such action shall
be brought, or some note or memorandum thereof, shall be in
writing and signed by the party to be charged therewith, or by
some other person by him thereunto lawfully authorized.
Sec. Iu addition to the causes of action and actions which
survive, at common law, the death of the plaintiff or defendant
therein, the following causes of action or actions shall also survivp
•
vive.
First. Causes of action and actions of waste.
Second. Causes of action and actions of replevin and trover.
Third. Causes of action and actions of trespass and trespass
on the case for damages to the person or to real and personal es
tate.
Sec. 8. All the causes of action and actions in the preceding
. . ' ■. , t i
sectiou mentioned, may be originally brought and prosecuted by
. ° , ■
and against executors and administrators ; and if brought or prose
cuted by or against the testator or intestate in his lifetime, may
be prosecuted or defended by his executor or administrator.
gEa ij "Whenever any of said causes of action or actions are,
t J '
originally or by survival, brought or prosecuted by or against the
executor or administrator of the party originally liable, the plain
tiff shall be entitled to recover only the value of the goods taken,
or the damage actually sustained, without any vindictive or ex
emplary damages, or damages for any alleged outrage to the feel
ings of the injured party.
Sec- 10- Actions of ejectment shall survive the death of the
plaintiff or defendant, and may be prosecuted or defended by the
heir, devisee, executor, or administrator, of the deceased party,
as the right may descend or vest.
gEC. n, Tn no case shall the title to real estate be settled or
affected, except so far as relates to the case on trial, if and so far
'
as the same shall be prosecuted or defended by an executor or
administrator.
Sec- 12- Claims for damages on account of the laying out of
highways through lands of the claimants, and appeals from proceedings
in laying out highways, shall survive the death of the
claimant and appellant ; and the executors, administrators, heirs,
anc[ devisees, of the claimant or appellant, may, jointly or severally,
according to their interest, prosecute such claim or appeal in any
stage of the proceedings. In case of an appeal by the executors,
administrators, heirs, or devisees, the proceedings shall be taken
in the manner prescribed in chapter two hundred forty-eight, but
the same shall be claimed within eighty days after the determina
tion appealed from, and all other periods, excepting as to notice,
mentioned in said chapter two hundred forty-eight shall be in
creased by forty days.
Sec. 13. No action, suit, or proceeding, commenced or pending
« ft. . ... ..
by or against any officer, receiver, or trustee, in Ins capacity as
i i n i . , n ■ i ,. , • . '
such, shall abate in consequence of Ins death, or of his ceasing to
hold, his office, place, or trust, within one year thereafter; but at
any time within one year thereafter, his successor in the office,
place, or trust, may come in and take upon himself, or lie may be
summoned in to take upon himself, the prosecution or defence of
such action, suit or proceeding.
Sec. 14. Whenever the death of a person shall lie caused by
the wrongful act, neglect, or default, of another, and the act, net;'lect,
or default, is such as would, if death had not ensued, have en-
A-ii • a • a* i i
titled the party injured to maintain an action and recover damages
in respect thereof, then, and in every such case, the person
who, or the corporation which, would have been liable if death
had not ensued, shall be liable to an action for damages, uotwithstanding
the death of the person injured, and although the death
shall have been caused under such circumstances as amount in
law to a felony. Everv such action shall be brought bv and in the
^ " ... 1 t " i
name of the executor or administrator of such deceased person,
- - ....... . whether
appointed or qualified within or without the state, and
. _ . i ■ i 11 1 l.. 1 .
the amount recovered in every such action shall one-half thereof
go to the husband or w idow, and one-half thereof to the children
of the deceased, and if there be no children the w hole shall go to
the husband or widow , and, if there be no husband or w idow, to
the next of kin, in the proportion provided by law in relation to
the distribution of personal property left by persons dying intes
tate : Provided, that every such action shall be commenced w ithin
two years after the death of such person. If there is no executor
or administrator, or if, there being one, no action is brought in his
name within six months after the death, one action may be brought
in the names of all the beneficiaries, either by all, or by part stat
ing that they sue for the benefit of all. and stating their respective
relations to the deceased : /'rorii/et/, that if all do not bring such
suit, only those bringing it shall be responsible for costs; but
judgment shall be for the benefit of all, and shall lie entered as
several judgments for each in his proportion as aforesaid, and ex
ecutions thereon shall issue in favor of each respectively: /V<<-
viderf further, that if such action lie brought by the beneficiaries,
no action shall thereafter be brought by the executor or adminis
trator. There shall be but one bill of costs in favor of the plain
tiffs, which shall enure equally for the benefit of those bringing
the suit, and of them only.
Sec. 15. In order to maintain any action given in and by the
preceding section, it shall not be necessary to first institute crimi
nal proceedings against the defendant.
Sec. 16. "Whenever any person shall suffer any injury to his
person, reputation, or estate, by reason of the commission of .1 11 V
a* \ l-i ■ 1 • ■
crime or ottence, he may recover ins <lania<res for Midi injury,
either in tin action of trespass, or in an action of the case, against
the offender ; but no such action, except as provided in the pre
ceding two sections, shall be commenced for such injury until
after complaint has been made to some proper magistrate for such
crime or offence, and process issued thereon against the offender,
excepting only those cases in which such actions may now be
maintained at common law ; and whenever any person shall lie
convicted of larceny, he shall lie liable to the owner of the money
or articles taken, for twice the value thereof, unless the same be
restored, and for the value thereof in case of restoration.
Sec. 17. Unless otherwise provided in the contract, upon the
death of any joint contractor his representatives may he charged
in the same manner as such representatives might have been
charged if such contract had been several instead of joint : Provi
ded, that the plaintiff shall first exhaust the partnership estate if
such joint contract is a partnership contract.
Sec. 18. No judgment, without complete satisfaction, rendered
against a part only of the defendants in any action upon a joint
contract, shall be a bar to any future action on said contract, for
any unsatisfied balance due, against such of the defendants upon
whom or whose estate the writ in the original action shall not have
been served.
Sec. 19. Any inn -keeper who shall provide a suitable safe in
his house, for the safe keeping of any money, jewels, or ornaments,
belonging to his guests, and shall notify them thereof by posting
a printed notice conspicuously in the rooms that such safe has
been provided for said purpose, shall not be liable for the loss of
any money, jewels, or ornaments, by theft or otherwise, which any
guest who has neglected to deposit the same in such safe may
sustain.
Sec. 20. Whenever in any action the plaintiff is in doubt as to
the person from whom he is entitled to recover, he may join two
or more defendants with a view of ascertaining which, if either, is
liable ; and the plaintiff shall recover only against such of the de
fendants as may be liable therein, and such as are not liable shall
recover such costs, single or double, as the court in its discretion
shall deem proper.
Sec. 21. The plaintiff may join as defendants in the same action
all or any persons severally, or jointly and severally, liable in any
contract or specialty, including any or all of the parties to a bill
of exchange or a promissory note, and in every such action the
judgment shall be rendered against such of the defendants only
as shall be liable therein, and such, if any, as shall not be liable
shall recover costs, as provided in the preceding section, against
the plaintiff; and the court may, upon motion of a defendant in
any such case, consolidate all pending actions or suits brought
against the several parties to such contract or specialty, or may
order other paiiies to the contract or specialty to be made de
fendants, and to be summoned in to answer to such action or suit ;
and in all such cases, while the property of a surety, indorser, or
drawer, may at any time be attached, that of the promissor, ac
ceptor or principal, properly before the court, if any he has within
its jurisdiction, if not attached on the original writ, may be at
tached on mesne process or execution and shall in all cases be first
applied in the satisfaction of any judgment recovered therein.
Sec. 22. In any action at law originally brought in the common
pleas division, or brought up on claim for jury-trial from a district
court, the plaintiff or the defendant may plead in such division
any equitable defence, upon which an unconditional judgment
can be rendered for the party pleading the same: Provided, that
if such case be brought from a district court, such equitable plea
shall lie filed as other pleas are required to be filed in cases
brought from district courts.
Sec. 23. No action shall be defeated by the non-joinder or mis
joinder of parties. New parties may be added and summoned in
and parties misjoined may be dropped, by order of the court at
any stage of the cause, as justice may require, in the discretion of
the court, and upon such terms as the court may order. When
any action has been commenced in the name of the wrong party
as plaintiff, the court, if satisfied that it has been so commenced
through mistake, and that it is necessary for the determination of
the real matter in dispute so to do, may allow any other party or
parties to be substituted, or added, as plaintiff or plaintiffs.
Sec. 24. Every new party summoned into a cause shall be
allowed a reasonable time, in the discretion of the court, from the
time of service of process or citation upon him, to appear and
plead within that time if he see fit so to do; and the trial of the
cause shall be postponed accordingly. Service of process or
citation on such new party shall be made in such manner as the
court shall direct.
Sec. 25. No change of parties made by order of the court shall
impair any previous attachment of the estate, or arrest of the body
of any defendant remaining in the action, nor impair any bond or
bail given by any party remaining, either as against himself or his
sureties. And in all the above cases, the writ and declaration
shall be amended accordingly.
Section 1. Actions of the case for words spoken shall be com
menced and sued within one year next after the words spoken, and
not after.
Sec. 2. Actions of trespass shall be commenced and sued within
four years next after the cause of action shall accrue, and not after.
Sec. 3. All actions of account, except on such accounts as con
cern trade or merchandise between merchant and merchant, their
factors and servants, all actions of the case, except for words
spoken, all actions of debt founded upon any contract without
specialty or brought for arrearages of rents, and all actions of
detinue and replevin, shall be commenced and sued within six
years next after the cause of action shall accrue, and not after.
Sec. 4. All actions of debt other than those in the preceding
section specified, and all actions of covenant, shall be commenced
and sued within twenty years next after the cause of action shall
accrue, and not after.
Sec. 5. If any person against whom there is or shall be cause
for any action, hereinbefore enumerated, in favor of a resident
therein, shall at the time such cause accrue be without the limits
of the state, or, being within the state at the time such cause ac
crue, shall go out of the state before said action shall be barred by
the provisions of this chapter, and shall not have or leave properly
or estate therein that can by process of law be attached, then the
person entitled to such action may commence the same, within the
time before limited, after such person shall return into the state
in such manner that an action may with reasonable diligence be
commenced against him by the person entitled to the same.
Sec. I!. If any person at the time any such action shall accrue,
to him shall be within the age of twenty-one years, or of unsound
mind, or imprisoned, or beyond the limits of the United States,
such person may bring the same, within such time as hereinbefore
limited, after such impediment is removed.
Sec. 7. If any person, liable to an action by another, shall
fraudulently, by actual misrepresentation, conceal from him the
existence of the cause of such action, said cause of action shall lie
deemed to accrue against said person so liable therefor, at the time
when the person entitled to sue thereon shall first discover its ex
istence.
Sec. 8. If any person, for or against whom any of such actions
shall accrue, shall die before the time limited for bringing the
same, or within sixty days after the expiration of said time, and
the cause of such action shall survive, such action may be com
menced by or against the executor or administrator of the de
ceased person, as the case may be, at any time within one year
after the decease of the person so dying, and not afterwards, if
barred by the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. !). If any action, duly commenced within the time limited
and allowed therefor in and by this chapter, shall be abated or
otherwise avoided or defeated by the death of any party thereto,
or for any matter, or if, after verdict for the plaintiff, the judgment
shall be arrested, the plaintiff may commence a new action for the
same cause, at any time within one year after the abatement or
other determination of the original suit as aforesaid ; and if the
cause of action does by law survive, his executor or administrator
may, in case of his death, commence said new action -within the
said one year.
Sec. 10. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any
case in which by special provision a different time is limited.
CHAPTER 235.
OF ENTERING ACTIONS AND APPEALS, AND OF
AND ABATEMENT.
AMENDMENT
Section
1. Of relief when civil action or ap
peal is not entered regularly ;
but attachment or arrest to fail.
2. What constitutes entry.
3. No proceedings in civil causes in
any court to abate for want of
form.
4. Pleadings, essentially good, to be
held sufficient ; and court may
allow amendments.
5. Action which survives, not to
Section
abate by death of parties, if the
death be suggested on the rec
ord.
6. Adjournment of any court to
operate to continue all pending
business.
7. Court business to proceed at next
session held by the court.
8. Assignment-day, or motion-day,
falling on holiday, to be held
next week-day.
Section 1. Whenever any civil action (except in a district
, „
court), or whenever any appeal, shall not be entered according to
- . . . . . .
law, the court to which the same is returnable may, in case of accident,
mistake, or misfortune, in its discretion, allow the same to
be entered with or without terms : Provided, that if the same be
not entered according to law, in the first instance, all attachments
and arrests made therein shall be thereby vacated.
Sec. 2. No proceeding at law or in equity, original or appellate,
shall be deemed to lie entered until the necessary papers are prop
erly filed and the legal entry-fee, if any, is paid.
Sec. 3. No summons, writ, declaration, return, process, judg
ment, or other proceeding in civil causes in any court, shall be
abated, arrested, quashed, or reversed, for any defect or want of
form, but the court shall proceed and give judgment according as
the right of the cause and matter in law shall appear unto it, with
out regarding any imperfections, defects, or want of form, in such
writ, declaration, or other pleadings, return, process, judgment, or
proceeding whatsoever.
Sec. i. All pleadings which contain the essential averments,
according to the rules of the common law or the practice of this
state, shall be held good, notwithstanding the omission of im
material matter of prescribed forms ; and the court may at any
time permit either of the parties to amend any defect in the pro
cess or pleadings, with or without terms, in the discretion of the
court, or in pursuance of general rules.
Sec. 5. If there shall in any case be two or more plaintiffs or
defendants, and one or more of them shall die, if the cause of ac
tion shall survive to the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, or against
the surviving defendant or defendants, the writ or action shall not
be thereby abated, but such death being suggested upon the
record, the action shall proceed at the suit of the surviving plain
tiff or plaintiffs, or against the surviving defendant or defendants.
Sec. 6. All writs, actions, pleas, processes, precepts, recogni
zances, and other things whatsoever, returnable or having day in
any court shall stand, abide and continue unto any adjournment
made according to law and lie holden, deemed and adjudged to
be as good, effectual and available in law to all intents, construc
tions and purposes, as if such court had been holden and kept on
the day appointed for holding the same and no adjournment of
the same had been made.
Sec. 7. If from any cause any court in this state shall not be
holden at the time appointed by law, or to which it may have been
adjourned, all business pending therein shall be proceeded with
when such court next meets.
Sec. 8. If any day on which a case is to be assigned for trial
I hereinafter termed "assignment-day"), or any motion-day, occur
on a legal holiday, such assignment-day or motion-day shall be
the following week-day.
Section 1. The plaintiff in any civil action, suit, or proceeding:
at law or in equity, in which process has been returned to either
division of the supreme court, or to any district court, may at any
time before the trial or hearing thereof be begun, file in the office
of the clerk of such division or court a written notice of discon
tinuance signed by himself or his attorney, and stating therein the
action, suit or proceeding to be discontinued and the time of tiling
such notice ; and if the action, suit or proceeding shall have been
answered, a copy of such notice shall be given immediately to the
defendant or his attorney of record by the plaintiff"; and thereupon
said court, at the next session in chambers of the respective di
visions, or at the next session of the district court, respectively,
shall discontinue accordingly, as of course, and as of that day, un
less it shall appear that the rights of some other party thereto, or
interested therein, will lie impaired by such discontinuance ; and
no costs accruing after such discontinuance by the court shall bo
taxable for the defendant.
Sec. 2. Either division of the supreme court or any district
court may, after such notice by publication as may be prescribed
by general or special rule, order any action, suit or proceeding,
pending in such division, or district court, in which neither party
appears to prosecute or defend for the space of one year, to be
stricken from the docket of such division, without costs, and with
out prejudice to the rights of any party thereto, upon such condi
tions as the supreme court shall in its discretion prescribe by gen
eral or special rule.
Section 1. In all civil actions in a district court the declara
tion shall be filed with the writ, at any time before the day and
hour when the writ is returnable, or on said return-day before the
call of the docket, and the return-day shall also be known as the
entry-day, and entry of appearance by the defendant shall be
made on said day while said court is in session, excepting as pro
vided in sections two and five of this chapter.
Sec. 2. In case the wrrit and declaration shall not be entered as
aforesaid, the same may be entered in said court at any time dur
ing the return-day thereof, by permission of the justice, or officer
duly acting as such, upon such terms and conditions as such jusr
tice, or other officer duly acting as such, may deem proper, and
with such notice to the defendant as he may prescribe ; and there
upon said case shall be continued to the day to which it would
have been continued had it been regularly entered and answered,
as provided in section four of this chapter ; and if the said terms
and conditions shall be complied with, said defendant shall enter
his appearance and plead at such time, as the court may order,
and the case shall be called for trial on the said day to which it
was continued: Provided, however, that the defendant shall have
a reasonable time in which to answer and plead special pleas.
Sec. 3. The entry of appearance by the defendant in any case
in a district court, shall be equivalent to filing the plea of the gen
eral issue ; and if said case be tried in the district court, the de
fendant shall, on or before the day one week after the return-day,
concisely plead any special defences of law or fact wrhich he may
desire to plead. If no special defences be pleaded, the defendant
shall be restricted to such matters as may be shown under the
general issue, or its equivalent.
Sec. 4. All cases in which entry of appearance by the defendant
shall be made as provided in section one of this chapter, shall,, as
of course, be continued two weeks, or to the next civil session of
the court, if such next civil session be later than two weeks, except
cases for the possession of tenements let, or held at will or by
sufferance, which cases shall, as of course, be continued for one
week, or to the next civil session of the court, if such next civil
session be later than one week ; and the trial in all cases, unless
other order be made, shall be had on such day to which the case
was of course continued.
Sec. 5. All cases wherein possession of tenements let, or held
ut will or by sufferance, is sought, in which no entry of appearance
by the defendant shall be made as provided in section one or two
of this chapter, shall be defaulted, and judgment shall be entered
as of the day of the default, and execution may be issued on the
following day, exclusive of Sundays and legal holidays, to run as
to costs against the estate, ami in default of estate against the
body of the defendant.
SEC. 6. All other cases in which no entry of appearance by the
defendant shall be made as provided in sections one or two of this
chapter shall be continued one week, or to the next civil session of
the court if the next civil session lie later than one week ; and on the
day to which such case is continued, such case shall be defaulted,
unless the defendant, on application to the justice, and with or
without costs as ordered by the justice, shall, within six days after
entry-day, have entered his appearance and tiled any demurrers or
special pleas which he may desire to plead: Provided that if the
sixth day falls on Sunday, the last day for such entering and tiling
shall be the preceding Saturday. If the defendant shall comply
■\yith said conditions, then the case, if continued for one week, shall,
on the day to which it was continued, be continued for the further
period of one week, and shall be in order for trial on the day to
which it was last continued: otherwise, it shall be defaulted as
aforesaid. And if the defendant shall comply with said con
ditions, then the case, if continued to the next session of the court
where the same occurs later than one week after the return-day,
shall be in order for trial on the day to which it was continued:
otherwise, it shall lie defaulted on that day as aforesaid.
Sec. 7. In all civil cases in a district court the plaintiff or defend
ant may claim a jury-trial in writing on the entry-day of the writ, and
either plaintiff or defendant may claim a jury-trial in writing within
two days, exclusive of Sundays and legal holidays, after the de
cision is made : Provided, that in all cases for the possession of
tenements let or held at will or by sufferance, such claim for a
jury-trial shall be claimed within six hours after decision is made ;
and provided, that the party claiming such jury trial at the time
of claiming the same shall pay all costs; and- prodded further,
that if jury-trial is claimed by the plaintiff after decision, and the
verdict, judgment or decision in the common pleas division, if for
the plaintiff, do not exceed the amount a warded him in the district
court, he shall recover no costs and shall also pay the defendant's
costs; and if on the plaintiff's claim for jury-trial the verdict,
judgment or decision, as also the decision in the district court,
shall be for the defendant, the defendant shall be entitled to
double costs; and if the defendant claim the jury-trial, and the
verdict, judgment or decision be for the plaintiff for the same or
a greater amount than that awarded by the district court, the de
fendant shall be taxed double costs. Cases on agreed statement
of facts may be certified to the appellate division of the supreme
court, as by law provided.
Sec. 8. If jury-trial be so claimed, the case and papers shall,
on the next court-day of such district court, be certified and forth
with transmitted to the common pleas division of the supreme
court, sitting in the county wherein the district court is established :
to come up for assignment in Providence county on the first Mon
day of the month (exclusive of August and September) whose
first Monday occurs next after the period of ten days from the
date of such certification ; and to come up for assignment, in any
other county, on the first day of that session in the county whose
first day occurs next after ten days from such certification ; but if
the case be for the possession of tenements let or held at will or
by sufferance, such case shall at once be certified to the common
pleas division, as aforesaid, to take precedence of other matters on
the calendar, and to be assigned accordingly.
Sec. 9. Every defendant in an action for the possession of ten
ements let, or held at will or by sufferance, claiming jury-trial,
shall, in addition to making the payments required in and by sec
tion seven of this chapter, give bond to the plaintiff, with one or
more sureties satisfactory to the district court, to pay all rent or
other moneys due or which may become due pending the action
under the tenancy, and such damages and costs as may be awarded
against him, such bond to Vie filed with the clerk of the district
court, or person acting as clerk, at the time of claiming jury-trial.
Sec. 10. In all actions in a district court, where the whole
amount is more than three hundred dollars, and the balance stated
by the plaintiff does not exceed that sum, he may bring his action
for such balance, and shall declare specially thereon, and shall,
on the entry of the writ, or afterwards on motion, file his account
of debt and credit in said action.
Sec. 11. In all actions for the recovery of money due on any
note or other instrument in writing, which was given originally
for three hundred dollars, or a larger sum, and which by indorse
ment, or by acknowledgment, is reduced to three hundred dollars
or under, including principal and interest, suit may be brought be
fore a district court as aforesaid, and judgment may be entered
thereon, and execution awarded, in the same manner as though
such note or other instrument in writing had been originally given
for the sum to which said note or other instrument in writing his
been reduced.
Section 1. In any civil action at law originally brought in the
common pleas division of the supreme court, the plaintiff shall de
clare therein and file his declaration in the office of the clerk of
the common pleas division with his writ on the return-day thereof.
Sec. 2. The defendant shall file his demurrer or plea within ten
days after the entry of the case, or judgment shall pass against
him as for a default; excepting that, for cause shown, the time
may be extended, with or without terms, in the discretion of the
court.
Sec. 3. In any case certified to the common pleas division of
the supreme court, on claim for jury-trial from a district court,
either party may file in said division such further pleas, legal or
equitable, as he may see fit, within the period of ten days from
the day of certification.
Sec. 4. All civil cases at law, originally entered in the common
pleas division of the supreme court, in Providence :ounty, shall
be in order for assignment for trial, or other disposition, on the
first Monday of the month (exclusive of August and September)
whose first Monday occurs next after twenty days from the entry
of the case ; and in other counties than Providence county, on the
first day of the session, in such county, whose first day occurs next
after twenty days from the entry of the case ; and such days shall
be known as assignment-days.
Sec. 5. Prior to the assignment-day, counsel may, if they can
agree, assign any case to be tried in the common pleas division of
the supreme court, to a given day for trial, with the assent of a
justice of said division ; otherwise, the division, (Hi the assignment
s'
day, shall assign the same for trial on some future day, or make
other disposition thereof.
Sec. 6. In every civil action at law, originally brought in the
common pleas division of the supreme court, if neither party file
a written claim for a jury-trial at least five days before its assign
ment-day, then jury-trial shall be deemed to be waived in such
case, unless when such case is called on such assignment-day both
parties agree to a jury-trial, in which case the same shall be as
signed accordingly. And if no jury-trial be claimed or agreed to
as aforesaid, then said case shall be at once certified to the ap
pellate division for final determination, to be tried on such day as
may be assigned by said appellate division hy agreement of coun
sel or come up for assignment on the next regular assignment-day
therein.
Sec. 7. All pleadings shall be closed on or before assignmentday
; and if the pleadings be not closed on that day, the division
may make such order concerning closing of the same, and impose
such costs and conditions, as it may deem proper ; and prior to
such assignment-day, motions to close and settle pleadings may
be made at any session of said division in chambers.
Sec. 8. All motions, and all questions of pleading or practice,
not arising in the trial of a case, all demurrers, all defaulted cases,
in the common pleas division, shall be heard and disposed of by
the justice of said division at his session in chambers in Provi
dence county, whether the same shall arise in said county or in
any other county : Pi'o\n<le<l', that all such matters arising in any
other county may be heard in such other county when the division
is sitting therein.
Sec. 9. All demurrers which, in the opinion of the justice sit
ting in chambers, are formal, or which do not go to the substance
of the cause, shall be disposed of by said justice, with power to
grant amendments ; the defendant shall plead over, and the case
shall come up for assignment at the regular assignment-day.
Section 1. When any case is submitted on an agreed state.
ment of facts, whether in the common pleas division of the su.
. . - . . .
preme court or in a district court, or whenever a demurrer is riled
7., , t ■ • -ii ■• t
Ill the common pleas division, which demurrer, in the opinion of
the justice thereof, goes to the substance of the cause, or whenever
in said division jury-trial is waived by agreement of the par-
. . i -i . . • , . . . ,i ,
ties or waived under the provisions oi section six ot the next pre-
ceding chapter, the said cause shall be certified to the appellate
division of the supreme court for settlement of the questions of
law so raised, and in any case where jury-trial has been waived,
for the final determination thereof. All such causes, except those
arising in Newport and Washington counties, shall be certified
and transmitted to the appellate division at Providence ; and all
such causes arising in Newport or Washington county may be
certified and transmitted to the appellate division at Providence,
Newport, or South Kingstown, by agreement of parties, and if no
such agreement shall be made, then to the appellate division in
the same county, excepting that cases arising in Kent and Bristol
counties shall be certified and transmitted to the appellate division
at Providence. When any case is submitted on an agreed state
ment of facts, jury-trial shall be deemed to be waived without
special waiver thereof.
Sec. 2. In case any action, commenced by attachment of real
or personal estate, or by foreign attachment, where no personal
service has been had, shall not be answered, and the defendant
resides without the state, and does not come into the state before
the regular time of answering has expired, such action shall be
continued, and the time of answering, or filing special pleas, ex
tended to such time as the court in its discretion shall decide
upon: Prodded, that said defendant may come in and answer
within such time ; and on reasonable notice to the plaintiff said
case may then be set down for hearing at a time fixed.
a „ T j- • -i ■ • 1 » i-i 1
Sec. 3. In every action or proceeding, civil or criminal, tor libel
or slander, the defendant may, with his plea of not guilty, file a
-written notice that he -will prove the truth of the publication
charged as libelous or of the words charged as slanderous, and in
such case may, upon the trial, give the truth in evidence without
any special plea of justification ; and the truth, unless published
or uttered from malicious motives, shall be sufficient defence to
the person charged.
Sec. 4. Any defendant in any action or suit, and any plaintiff
in replevin, may in any court, with leave of such court, plead as
many several matters thereto as he shall think necessary to his de
fence, and, with like leave, any plaintiff may reply as many several
matters to the plea or pleas of the defendant as he shall think
necessary ; and the defendant may, with like leave, rejoin as many
several matters to the replication or replications of the plaintiff as
he shall think necessary.
Sec- 5- Whenever any action of debt shall be brought upon
any ^ond without condition, or whenever an action of debt or writ
Gf 8Cjre facias shall be brought on any judgment, if the defendant
has paid the money due upon such bond or judgment, or has ob
tained a release therefor, whether given prior or subsequent to the
judgment thereon, such payment or release may be pleaded in bar
of such action.
Sec- 6- Whenever any action of debt shall be brought upon
an>7 bon(i which has a condition or defeasance to make void the
same upon the payment of a less sum at a day or place certain, if
the obligor, his heirs, executors or administrators, have, before
. .
fae action brought, paid to the obligee, his executor's or admin
istrators, the principal and interest due by the defeasance or
condition of such bond, although such payment was not made
strictly according to the condition or defeasance, yet it may,
nevertheless, be pleaded in bar of such action, and shall be as
effectual a bar thereof as if the money had been paid at the day
and place, according to the condition or defeasance, and hail
been so pleaded.
^ec. 7- Tlie defendant iu every action of debt, action of covenan*>
ail(^ iu ©very action of the case grounded on an express or
implied contract, in everv action of trespass for breaking and
r 1 J L °
entering the plaintiff's close, wherein the defendant shall, in Lis
plea,
disclaim all right, title and interest in and to said close, and
; .
in every action of trespass, or trespass on the case for any injury
done to personal property, or of trover, that may be pending be
fore any court, shall have right to make and plead a tender, or
may have leave to bring into court the money which he shall ac
knowledge to be due on such contract, or sufficient amends for
such trespass or injury, together with the plaintiff's lawful costs
expended up to the time of the tender made or pleaded, or the
bringing of the money into court ; and the plaintiff shall have a
right to take the same in full or in part satisfaction of the demaixl
made in such action.
Sec. 8. If the plaintiff in either of the above cases shall receive
the same in part satisfaction only and shall proceed further in the
same action, and the court or jury who shall finally assess the
damages in such case shall determine that no more was due on the
demand made in such action than was tendered or brought into
court as aforesaid, at the time the same was tendered or brought
in, the plaintiff shall not recover costs, but shall be obliged to pay
the defendant his costs after such tender or after the money was
brought into court as aforesaid, as the case may be.
Sec. 9. Whenever an action shall be brought to recover a sum
due on any book -account, or on money-counts, the plaintiff shall
annex to his declaration, on filing the same, an account of the par
ticulars of his claim, or, failing so to do within such time as may
be fixed by the court, his action may on motion be dismissed by
the court.
Sec. 10. The defendant in cases of book-account and also in
all actions on account stated by the parties, a quantum meruit,
quantum valebat, or for goods sold, or for Services done at an
agreed price, may plead the general issue and may file with his
said plea a statement in set-off as hereinafter provided ; and the
court or jury who shall assess the damages in such cases shall
determine the balance due to either party, and the party in whose
favor the balance shall be found shall recover judgment therefor,
(provided that in any district court such balance does not exceed
three hundred dollars,) together with his costs, and shall have ex
ecution accordingly.
Sec. 11. If any defendant shall have a demand on the plaintiff
for any sum liquidated, or for one which may be ascertained by
calculation, and which is founded on a judgment, or on an account,
or on any contract (whether express or implied, and whether with
or without seal,) and which existed at the time of the commence
ment of the action and then belonged to the defendant in his own
right and for which he might maintain a suit in his own name, he
may set off the same in any action founded on any demand which
could itself be set off.
Sec. 12. To entitle the defendant to a set-off, he shall file a
statement of his demands in court, or in the office of the clerk,
with his plea, and shall set forth his demands with as much cer
tainty as would be required in a declaration, and the court in
which the action shall be pending may render judgment for the
defendant, for the balance due to him (but not exceeding the
amount of three hundred dollars in a district court), and also give
judgment for costs.
Sec. 13. If in cases of set-off in the district court the claim
by the defendant shall exceed the sum of three hundred dollars,
and in the opinion of the court there shall lie due the defendant
thereon a greater amount than three hundred dollars, then and in
such case, unless said defendant shall in writing accept judgment
for three hundred dollars, the court shall render judgment against
the plaintiff as in case of non-suit, and for the defendant for his
costs only, and shall not further adjudicate upon the claim of the
defendant, whose right to sue for the same shall remain in the same
manner as before the commencement of the action : Provld&l,
that in any case originally brought in a district court, wherein a
jury-trial shall be claimed, the common pleas division of the su
preme court may give judgment for the defendant for the entire
amount that may be found due to him on any claim in set-off
filed therein by him, whether the same exceed the sum of three
hundred dollars or not.
Sec. 14. In all actions brought upon bills, notes, bonds, or other
instruments in writing, for the absolute or contingent payment of
money, in all actions or contracts for the loan and advance of
money, whether reduced to writing or not, for book-debt and on
judgments rendered within the United States, and in all actions of
scire facias on recognizance of bail, if the plaintiff shall tile with
his declaration a copy of the bill, note, bond, instrument in writ
ing, book-entries, judgment or recognizance, or, in case of an action
for money loaned or advanced, an affidavit of the plaintiff, or some
one of the plaintiffs, of the amount loaned or advanced to or for
the use of the defendant, the defendant, or some one of the de
fendants, or some one in his or their behalf, shall, within ten
days after filing of the declaration, if the case be in the common
pleas division, or within the time fixed for filing special pleas, if
in a district court, make affidavit setting out that in his opinion
there is a good and valid defence and in what said defence con
sists ; otherwise judgment shall be entered as if said case were
defaulted.
Sec. 15. No issue need be joined on a demurrer nor need any
pleadings be formally closed either to the court or to the jury, but
the denial of any material allegation shall constitute an issue of
fact.
Sec. 16. Whenever a demurrer is filed, the same need not be
more formally stated than that the party demurring demurs to
such declaration or plea, but shall be accompanied with a state
ment of the specific grounds of demurrer ; and no other groiuids
shall be considered under such demurrer than those so stated, un
less for cause shown and on proper terms.
Sec. 17. In every case tried by the district court, or by the
common pleas division of the supreme court without the interven
tion of a jury, the court or division deciding the same shall briefly
note its conclusions of law and fact on its docket, or file the same
with the papers in the case, and such record shall be known as a
decision ; and when the word " decision " is used in these stat
utes, especially in relation to appellate proceedings, it shall be
construed as meaning such record.
Section 1. All petitions for the enforcement of mechanics liens,
... , ,. iii t t i
petitions tor divorce, and statutory proceeding's so prescribed by
*7 , , , „ . ' i •. * 2.1 ■
statute, shall follow the course of equity so far as the same is applicable.
Sec. 2. Subpoenas and citations in equity causes, and in all
1
cases following the course of equity, including those mentioned
in the preceding section, shall, unless otherwise ordered or pro
vided by law, be made returnable at any time within thirty days
from the date of their issue, at the option of the complainant tak
ing out the same.
^>EC- In special cases, on motion to any justice of the ap-
pellate division, the return-day, the time, and the method of service,
maybe special! y ordered, or the time for such sen-ice extended,
and a new return-day fixed. In case of bills praying for
' . ,J . , . i i i
temporary injunctions, motion for such injunction may lie heard
and granted by any justice of said division at any reasonable time
on any week-day.
Sec. i. In bills praying for a temporary injunction, no ad
ditional petition shall be required, and the same may be granted
on motion ; but the bill shall be sworn to by the complainant, or
some one in his behalf, and the subpoena shall contain notice of
the application.
Sec. 5. The defendant in equity causes, or in cases following
••in i r
the course of equity, shall enter an appearance on or before ten
days after the return-day of the subpoena or citation, or, for cause
shown, may be afterward permitted by the justice of said division,
sitting in chambers, to appear therein.
Sec. The demurrer, plea, or answer, shall be filed within
t . .
thirty days after the return-day, or within such further time as
may be allowed on motion, as in the preceding section prescribed.
And the complainant shall except or reply to an answer, or reply
to a plea, within ten days after he, or his solicitor, shall be given
written notice of tiling thereof, unless further time be given him
for that purpose, on motion, as provided in section five.
Sec. 7 Each bill or petition, including those matters men1
> o
tioned in section one of this chapter, shall be docketed as filed,
_ » ., 1 t ..
and shall be called for assignment for trial, or other disposition,
at Providence on the first Monday of the month (exclusive of
August and September) whose first Monday, and at Newport or
South Kingstown on the first day of the session whose first day,
occurs next after the lapse of forty days from the return-day, un
less special order be made, on motion in chambers on a regular
motion-day, or in open court, as said matters are filed in Provi
dence, Newport or South Kingstown, respectively,
gEC g jf the complainant do not reply or except to an answer.
1 - . .
or reply to a plea, within ten days, or otherwise, as provided in
1 ■' 1 , J ' x
section six of this chapter, the cause shall be considered as set
down for hearing on the bill and answer, or plea, respectively.
Sec. 9. No formal replication shall be required, but the state.
. .
ment by the plaintiff that he joins issue on the answer or plea
shall have the same effect as if formal replication had been
made.
Sec. 10. All bills and petitions not pleaded to at the time when
. , .
answer, plea or demurrer is due, shall on motion of the complain,
. ' x
ant be taken as confessed if all prior proceedings have been correctly
taken, including notice in writing of such motion to the respondent
or his solicitor of record served five days prior to the
entry of such decree of pro confesso, or such other notice as a
single justice on motion may have theretofore prescribed. Such
decree, if no motion to set the same aside be made on the same
<lay or within five days after entry of the same, shall be conclusive
and the case shall thereafter proceed ex-parte. If such motion be
made as above provided, said decree for cause shown may be set
aside and further time to file answer, plea or demurrer, may be
granted on such terms and conditions as the justice hearing the
same may impose.
PRACTICE IS ALL MATTERS OF ORIGINAL JURISDICTION OTHER THAN EQUITY
CAUSES AND CASES FOLLOWING THE COURSE OF EQUITY.
Sec. 11. In all matters of original jurisdiction other than equity
, . „ . . ., i- n t
causes and cases following the course of equity, application tor
citation shall be made by motion or petition to the justice of the
appellate division sitting in chambers on motion-day, or, in cases
of necessity, on other days, to the division itself or to any justice
thereof ; and special order may be made as to return-day, time,
and method of service.
Sec. 12. Such oases shall be heard on the return-day thereof,
unless further time be granted, and, where necessity exists, shall
have precedence.
PRACTICE IN CHAMBERS.
Sec. 13. All motions, questions of pleading, and of practice,
not arising in the trial of a case, and all matters that may be dis
posed of by a single justice of the appellate division, may be heard
on regular motion-days by such justice.
Sec. 14. All matters that can be heard in chambers, shall be
heard in Providence ; but during such time as the appellate di
vision shall be sitting in Newport or South Kingstown, the same
may be heard in Newport or South Kingstown either before the
division or before a single justice thereof.
GENERAL PRACTICE IN SUITS IN EQUITY.
Sec. 15. No supplemental bill, or bill of revivor, shall Vie neces
sary in equity, but the appellate division, by general rule or by
special order, may provide for the introduction of any supplemental
matter into the suit by way of addition to or amendment of the
bill, and for entering upon the record the decease of any party,
and for bringing in the heirs, personal representatives, and others
interested.
Sec. 16. Whenever any bill or proceeding: in equity is pending,
any person not a party thereto may, upon making it appear to the
appellate division that he is interested in the subject-matter of the
suit or proceeding, or that he has reason to apprehend collusion
between the parties therein to obtain some order or decree by
which his interest may be affected, be allowed to become a party
to such suit or proceeding, upon such terms and conditions as the
appellate division shall prescribe.
Sec. 17. No cross-bill shall lie necessary in any suit in equity,
and no cross-petition in divorce proceedings, but the respondent
in any such suit or proceeding may avail himself of any matter
which would be open to him upon a cross bill or petition, by set
ting up such matter in his answer, or in divorce proceetbngs by
motion in writing setting forth the grounds therefor ; and the ap
pellate di vision, upon hearing the case, may make any decree for
or against either party, interlocutory or final, warranted by the
merits of the case, that it could make in such suit or proceeding
had a cross-bill or cross-petition been filed therein.
Sec. 18. The court may, on motion as above, grant affirmative
relief to such a respondent, in any petition for divorce.
Sec. 19. Whenever a complainant in equity shall waive an oath
to the answer of the defendant, the answer shall have the same ef
fect that is now given to a plea in an action at law.
Sec. 20. Whenever any defendant in a suit in equity resides or
is without the state, the complainant may take out as many sub
poenas to the defendant as he may deem proper, and may have one
of them served upon such defendant personally by any disin
terested person, which person shall make affidavit of the service
thereof, and of the manner in which, the time when, and the place
where, the service was made ; or the service thereof may be made
by the admission of such service by the defendant on the back of
the subpoena, and by his acknowledgment thereof before some
officer authorized to administer oaths.
Sec. 21. At any time after a cause is at issue, except in vacation,
commissions to take testimony orally, on examination and on crossexamination,
may be taken out as of course jointly by both parties ;
or for cause shown, upon special order of any justice of the appel
late division may be taken out by either party. Commissions may
be taken out to take testimony upon interrogatories filed by the
party taking out the commission in the clerk's office, ten days' notice
thereof being given to the adverse party to file cross-interrogatories
before the issuing of tlie commissi tin ; and if no cross-interrogatories
are tiled at the expiration of the time and no further time is granted
by the court on motion made within said term of ten days, the com
mission may issue ex-parte. In all cases the commissioner or com
missioners shall be named by the appellate division, or by a justice
thereof. In case of extreme necessity, on order of a justice of such
division, such commission may be taken out in vacation. In taking
stick testimony the commissioner shall follow the rules as to taking
depositions, anil shall have the same powers as to compelling the
attendance of witnesses and the giving of evidence by them, as
officials authorized to take depositions by chapter two hundred
forty-four. The appellate division may, on motion of any party,
hear any cause or jjroceeding in whole or in part on oral testi
mony, or it may send the pleadings and any issues therein (to be
heard on oral testimony) to a master who, under the direction or
rides, general or special, of the appellate division, shall hear and
report to the appellate division the evidence and his rulings in
such suit or proceeding and his findings on such evidence ; and
if such rulings or findings be not specifically excepted to within
thirty days after the opening of said report (of which opening
the clerk of said division shall at once notify in writing all par
ties or their attorneys of record) they shall be conclusive on all
parties, excepting that for cause shown the time may be extended
on motion filed within said thirty days.
Sec. 22. The appellate division may, by general rule or by
special order, vary the forms of process, mode of proceeding, or
of decree, heretofore in use, in such manner as may be necessary
to carry into effect the provisions of any statute of this state.
Sec. 23. No suit in equity shall be defeated on the ground that
a mere declaratory decree is sought, and the appellate division
may make binding declarations of right in equity without grant
ing consequential relief.
Sec. 24. Any persons interested in any question of the con
struction of any statute of this state, or of any will, deed or other
writing, or of title or evidence of title, to any real or personal
estate contracted to be sold, or which is to be otherwise dealt with,
or as to the parties to, or as to the form of, any deed or instrument
for carrying such contract into effect, or as to any other matter or
thing within the jurisdiction of a court of equity, may concur in
stating such question in the form of a special case for the opinion
of the appellate division ; and executors, administrators, trustees,
infants by their guardian or next friend, and married women with
their husbands, may concur in such statement ; and said division
may order any person having an interest therein, to be summoned
in and to be made party thereto ; and said division, on hearing
the case, may declare its opinion of the rights involved therein
without administering any relief, and such declaration shall have
the same effect as to all the parties before the court as if contained
in a decree on original bill : Provided, that said division may de
cline to answer such questions as in its opinion it cannot properly
decide.
Sec. 25. In any application in equity by bill or petition prop
erly brought, or by petition under the preceding section, wherein
construction of a will or trust-deed, or any portion thereof, is
asked, there may be allowed to each of the parties defendant to
such proceeding, brought in by the complainant's bill or petition,
or amendment thereto, applying therefor, such reasonable sum for
expenses and on account of counsel-fees as the appellate division
sitting in chambers in its discretion shall deem proper ; which
allowance shall be taxed as costs in the cause, to be paid out of the
estate or fund in the hands of the complainant concerning which
estate or fund the construction is asked.
Sec- 26- Whenever the appellate division of the supreme court
decree, or shall have decreed, a conveyance of any real or
Per8onal estate, or of any right or interest therein, in any suit in
equity, said division may direct the master in chancery of the
court to whom such cause shall be or shall have been referred, or
before whom it shall be pending, to make, execute, acknowledge,
and deliver such conveyance ; and any conveyance made by any
master under and according to such decree, shall be effectual to
pass the title to the estate conveyed and in the decree described.
Sec- 21 • Every bill or petition in equity shall state the facts in
numbered paragraphs ; and with the original there shall be tiled
°n6 copy for the personal ubo of the respondents. Every answer
shall be in numbered paragraphs, and with the original there shall
be filed one copy for the personal use of the complainants.
CHAPTER 241.
OF PRACTICE IN CHAMBERS IN EITHER DIVISION OF THE
SUPREME COURT.
Section
1. Motions are to be in writing; to
be filed, and written notice
served, how long before hear
ing.
Section
2. Of motion -docket and calendar.
and order of hearings.
3. Rules of practice iu the motion-
courts.
Section 1. All motions shall be in writing and, excepting ex-
parte motions, shall be filed at least sixty hours, exclusive of Sun
days and legal holidays, before being called for hearing; and,
excepting ex-parte motions, notice in writing shall be served upon
the attorney or solicitor of record of the opposite side, or, if there
be no such attorney or solicitor of record, upon the adverse party,
at least forty-eight hours, exclusive of Sundays and legal holidays,
before being called for hearing, unless a different time for such
filing and service lie fixed ex-parte by a justice of the division.
Sec. 2. All motions shall be docketed as filed, and shall he
called in the order of filing, and if not reached, or not disposed of,
on such motion-day, shall be continued. A calendar shall be made
up for each motion-day.
Sec. 3. The two divisions of the supreme court may respectively
adopt such rales, iu addition to the provisions of the pre
ceding sections, as may be found convenient for the regulation of
practice in their respective motion-courts.
CHAPTER 242.
OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS RESPECTING PRACTICE.
Section
Notice in writing to adverse party
or attorney, how to be served ;
but service may be acknowl
edged in writing.
Section
2.
8.
Hearing set for day certain, may
be heard on a future day.
Time-limits for pleading and pro
cedure may be extended by
written consent of all parties.
Section 1. Whenever it is provided that notice in writing shall
be given to any party or his attorney of record, such notice shall
be served by any person by leaving the same in the hands or pos
session of such party or his attorney of record, or at the last and
usual place of abode of such party with some person living there, or
at the office of such attorney of record : 1'rocided, however, that if
said party cannot be found and his residence be not known and
he has no attorney of record, the moving party or his attorney at
any time, shall make affidavit of such facts, and thereupon any jus
tice of the supreme court shall order such notice to be given as he
shall deem proper. The affidavit of the person making service,
setting forth the time, place and manner of service, shall be prima
facie evidence of such service ; but service of such notice may 1 >e
accepted by such party or his attorney of record by written state
ment on such notice.
Sec. 2. Whenever provision is made for the hearing of a matter
at a day certain, said matter may be heard at such day, or on some
future day to which the court may assign the same, or on which
all the' parties in writing may agree and to which the court may
assent.
Sec. 3. Parties to a cause by consent of all in writing may
extend the time of pleading, or the periods w ithin which proceed
ings in court are prescribed to be taken.
Section 1. If a party know of any objection to a juror before
tlie case is opened to the jury and omit to suggest it to the court,
lie shall not afterwards make such objection, unless by express
leave of the court.
Sec. •>. Either party in a civil action, or in any criminal proceeiung,
may
lief ore tl te opening o
f such action or proceeding to
the jury, challenge in wilting, addressed to the clerk of the court,
any qualified jurors called for the trial of Haiti cause or proceed
ing, nut exceeding one in four, w ithout alleging or showing any
cause therefor; and after such objection the challenged jurors
shall not sit in the trial of such cause, but other jurors shall he
called to take the place of the challenged jurors for the trial of
the cause.
Sec. :i. Written objections or challenges, filed under the pro
visions of the preceding section, shall be kept in such place, and
shall he disposed of in such manner, as the court shall direct.
Sec. 1. The plaintiff or appellant in any cause shall not have
_ 1 mLL •
f]K, rjo-ht to become noli suit, or to discontinue the cause, after the
'
trial id' the same shall have been bejran to the court or jury; hut
, . . ', -i
the cause shall, in the discretion of the court, proceed, and the
decision of the court or verdict of the jury shall be taken therein,
w hether the plaintiff or appellant shall appear or not : Provided,
/unci '•</•. that the cause, by consent of till the parties thereto, may
lie discontinued at any time.
Sec. 5. In all cases, except where otherwise provided, if judg
ment l>e rendered on default, discontinuance, submission, or de
murrer, damages shall he assessed by the court, with or without
the intervention of a jury, in the discretion of the court.
Sec. 6. In all civil actions, suits or proceedings commenced in,
or brought on appeal to, the common pleas division of the supreme
court, the parties therein may waive their right of trial by jury ;
and thereupon such action, suit, proceeding, or appeal, both as to
the law and as to the facts, shall be heard, tried and determined
as hereinbefore provided.
Sec. 7. In any case, the common pleas division of the supreme
court may, and upon request of either party shall, direct the jury
to return a special verdict upon any issue submitted to the jury.
Such issues shall be settled by the justice presiding at the trial,
and either party may except to his rulings thereon. In addition
to such special findings on the issues submitted, the jury shall in
each case return a general verdict, and shall assess such damages,
if any, therein as they may deem just. The appellate division of
the supreme court may, on motion of any party made and filed,
together with a statement of the evidence in such cause at said
trial in manner as is elsewhere provided in cases of petitions for
new trial, set aside any general verdict and order judgment to be
entered by the common pleas division in favor of either party upon
any special verdict found in any cause ; or it may order a new trial
generally, or upon any issue submitted at such trial, as upon in
spection of all the evidence adduced, and the general and special
verdicts found therein, to it shall seem just.
Sec. 8. In equity causes the appellate division may frame
issues of fact to be tried by a jury, as the division in its discretion
may deem advisable ; otherwise all equity cases shall be tried in
the appellate division of the supreme court on depositions, except
ing such cases as the division shall allow to be tried on oral evi
dence. Such issues of fact to be tried by a jury, in causes in said
division in Providence county, shall be sent to the common pleas
division sitting in said county, for assignment on the first Monday
of the mouth (exclusive of August and September) whose first
Monday occurs next after twenty days from such order ; and in
Newport or Washington county, to the first session of the common
pleas division therein whose first day occurs next after twenty
days from such order. And the parties to such cause shall follow
the said issues; and verdict thereon, special or general, shall be
certified back to the appellate division from which such issues
were sent, and shall be part of the record of said equity cause.
And otherwise, the practice in the appellate division shall be
according to the usual course of chancery practice.
Sec. 9. Upon the application in writing of any turnpike or
railroad company, or of any person whose interest may be affected
by such road or by the doings of such company, to the clerk of
the common pleas division of the supreme court in the county in
which the estate affected by such road lies, for a hearing and de
termination of any matter or thing whereof the common pleas
division has jurisdiction and cognizance relative to turnpikes or
railroads by virtue of any act of incorporation, or the provisions
of section eleven of this chapter, the clerk shall cause citation to
issue thereon, addressed to the parties named in such application,
and made returnable to the common pleas division in said county,
which said citation shall be served upon the adverse parties in the
same manner as a writ in an action at law, and upon the return
and entry thereof the matter shall proceed in all respects as an
action at law.
gEC- 10. "Whenever any railroad company shall locate its road,
» , ...
or any part thereof, it may file the report of such location with the
clerk of the common pleas division of the supreme court in the
county in which such located road is situated, and may in writing
request the action of the common pleas division thereon according
to charter or general or special act, or the provisions of section
eleven of this chapter ; and thereupon the clerk shall cause cita
tion to issue addressed to the parties named in such application,
and made returnable to the common pleas division in said county,
which said citation shall be served upon the adverse parties in the
same manner as a writ in an action at law, and upon the return
and entry thereof the matter shall proceed in all respects as au
action at law.
Sec. H- The common pleas division of the supreme court shall
have the same power and jurisdiction over the cases referred to hi
the preceding two sections, as the court of common pleas, or
special courts of common pleas, formerly had by charter or by
general law.
Section 1. In all cases in which it shall seem advisable to the
court, on request of either party, a view by the jury may be ordered ;
and in all such cases the court shall regulate the proceeding's at
such view and in its discretion accompany the jury.
Sec. 2. To entitle himself to such view, the party moving therefor
shall advance such reasonable sum of money to the sheriff to
defray the expenses of the jury 011 such view, as the court shall
order, and the amount of such expenses shall be taxed against the
adverse party, if he who advanced the same shall recover costs in
the suit.
WITNESSES.
gEa 3, The form of a subpoena to a witness shall be substan
tially as follows :
sc.
To of Greeting:
You are hereby required, in the name of the State of Rhode
Island and Providence Plantations, to make your appearance be
fore holden at within and for our county of
on the day of to give evidence of what you know
relative to an action or plea of then and there to be heard
and tried between plaintiff and defendant.
Hereof fail not, as you will answer your default under the pen
alty of the law in that behalf made and provided.
Dated at the day of in the year .
Sec. 4. Clerks of courts, and justices of distiict courts, mav
. . ' . * "
issue subpoenas to witnesses in all cases pending m their own or
any other court.
gEC 5 Auditors, referees, masters in chancery, and commis-
sioners, may issue writs of summons to witnesses in all cases and
matters pending before them, respectively; and justices of the
peace and notaries public may issue subpoenas to witnesses in any
case, civil or criminal, before any court, and in any matter before
any body or person authorized by law to summon witnesses.
Sec- 6. Every town council, city council, board of aldermen,
common council, school committee, or any committee of either
body, may, by their respective presiding officers, summon wit
nesses to testify in any matter pending before them ; may admin
ister oaths to such witnesses, may compel their attendance, and
may punish them for non-attendance by fine not exceeding twenty
dollars.
gEC ? A subpcena to a witness shall be served by reading the
same to him.
Sec- 8- Evel7 witness who shall be duly served with a subpoena
in behalf of any party to a suit or proceeding, civil or crimi-
na]; an(j s]ia]i liave his lawful fees tendered to him for his travel
from his place of abode to the place at which he shall be sum
moned to attend, and for one day's attendance, shall be obliged
to attend accordingly.
Sec. 9. A witness summoned in behalf of the state shall have
no right ^0 uave his fees paid or tendered to him before he shall
be bound to obey the summons,
Sec. 10. Every witness who does not appear according to the
. j i 1 i 1 1 l e 1 •
tenor of such subpoena, and has no reasonable excuse for Ins non
appearance, shall be liable to the action of the aggrieved party for
all damages sustained in consequence of such default.
Sec. 11. The court before which any witness is duly summoned
to appear may, by writ of attachment, compel his attendance, fine
him not exceeding twenty dollars, and order him to pay the costs
of such attachment and to be committed to prison until such fine
and costs be paid.
Sec. 12. Whenever any witness, duly served with a subpoena
to testify in any criminal proceeding at any court, shall neglect to
appear according to the tenor of such subpoena, such court may
order a writ of attachment to issue against him, returnable at such
time as the court shall direct, and may direct the same to each
and all sheriffs, deputy - sheriffs, town sergeants and constables
within the state.
Sec, 13. If the court from which such writ of attachment issues
shall not be in session at the time of the service of such writ, the
officer charged with the service thereof shall commit such witness
to jail, either in the county from which the writ shall issue or in
which such witness shall be : there to be kept until he shall give
recognizance before some person authorized to take bail in the
same county, with sufficient surety, in the sum of one hundred
dollars, to appear before said court on the day named in the writ,
or, failing to give recognizance, until he 1 >e discharged by the court ;
and said recognizance shall be returned by such person unto the
clerk of said court.
Sec. 14. The witness may give recognizance as aforesaid while
in custody of the officer, before he is committed to jail : and there
upon the officer shall discharge him from custody.
Sec. 15. Every witness, previous to his obtaining any fee, ex
cept the amount which, in certain cases, must be tendered to him
before he can be compelled to attend, shall give a certificate to the
court wherein his attendance shall be given, certifying the num
ber of days he has attended and the number of miles he has
traveled; which certificate shall be subject to the examination of
the court and, if question arises, such allowance shall be made
thereon-as shall be lawfully due.
Sec. 16. Any justice of either division of the supreme court,
sitting in chambers, may, in any cause, civil or criminal, on motion
of any party therein, at any time before the trial thereof, appoint
one or more disinterested skilled persons, whether they be resi
dents or non-residents, to serve as expert witnesses therein : Proelded,
that the reasonable fees of such experts, according to the
character of the service to be performed, to be fixed by such jus
tice, shall be, by the party moving for such appointment, paid to
the clerk of such division at such time as such justice shall pre
scribe ; and the amount so paid shall form part of the costs in such
cause. In criminal cases, in the discretion of the court, on request
of the defendant, expert witnesses may be furnished for such de-
fendant at the expense of the state, on such terms and conditions
as may be prescribed by the court.
Sec. 17. Such experts, being first duly sworn before some justice
of such division to make a faithful and impartial examination into
the matters and things committed to them, and true report there
on to make according- to the best of their knowledge, belief and
understanding, shall thereupon proceed to view and examine such
persons, matters and things, to read and hear such evidence, and
in such manner, times and places, whether by attendance at the
trial of such cause or otherwise, and to report their findings, views
and opinions thereon, jointly or severally, orally or in writing, to
the division where such cause shall be pending, before or at the
trial thereof, in such manner as the justice appointing them, or any
justice of such division sitting in the cause, shall presenile ; and
such report, if in writing, shall form part of the record of the
cause, and shall be produced in evidence at the trial thereof, and
such experts shall attend at such trial until excused by the court:
Provided, that any party to such cause may call and examine, or
cross-examine, any such expert at such trial as to the matters, per
sons, things, views, findings ancl^opinions, contained, mentioned
or referred to in any such report, without further summons.
Sec- 18" In any action i11 any couM, wherein damages shall be
claime(l for any injury to the body orSiealth, physical or mental,
of any person, and wherein an expert or experts shall be appointed
by any justice under the preceding two sections, such justice shall
require the person who is claimed to have been so injured, to sub
mit to such reasonable examination or examinations of his body
and health, physical or mental, by the experts so appointed, at
such times and places as said experts may require, to enable them
to make their report thereon to the court, and as si^ch justice shall
prescribe ; and thereupon such action shall be continued until
such examination or examinations shall have been mai^e.
gEC- 19. j_n no ca8e other than as provided in the^precedin?
' 1 * , ,
three sections, shall the fees of experts be allowed as part of tie
' * 1 \
costs beyond the amount of fees allowed for ordinary witnWses-
DEPOSITIONS
^E< " 20' -Except in equity causes, any justice of the suprem
cour*' justice of the peace, or notary public, may take the deposi
^on °^ ^"^ess, to be used in the trial of any civil suit, actioi
petition or proceeding, in which he is not interested, nor counse
nor the attorney of either party, and which shall then be con
menced or pending in this State, or in any other State, or in tli
District of Columbia, or in any Territory, government, or country
and in equity causes, testimony may be taken by deposition r
oral]y) as provided in section twenty -one of chapter two hundre
forty.
Sec. 21. Previous to the taking of any deposition as aforesaid
within this state, the official authorized to take the same shall i
all cases cause the adverse party, or his .attorney of record, to be
notified of the time and place appointed for taking such deposi-
tion, so that he may attend and put interrogatories to the de
ponent, if he think tit : Pror'nlerf, that if said person to be notified
cannot be found and his residence be not known and he has no at
torney of record, the moving party or his attorney may make affi
davit of such facts before any justice of the supreme court at any
time, and thereupon such justice shall prescribe the method in
which notice shall he given to such person.
Sec. 22. The notification issued l>v the magistrate, officer, or
■ • i ii i T i
commissioner, who shall take such deposition, shall he directed to
* . ..... . .
any proper officer, or to any impartial or disinterested person, and
.. . . ii'-i -i
shall be served a reasonable time, not less than twenty -tour hours,
exclusive of Sundays and legal holidays, before the time of taking
such deposition.
Sec. 23. The officer or other person charged as aforesaid with
the service of such notification, shall serve the same by reading it
to the party to be cited, if to be found : and if not to be found, by
leaving a copy thereof at his usual place of abode; and shall, in
his return, state the manner and time of such service; and when
ever such service shall be made by any person other than a sworn
officer, he shall verify the same, under oath, before some officer
authorized to administer oaths.
Sec. 24. Depositions may be taken without this state to be used
in the tribunals of this state, upon an order obtained on moth >n from
the court in which the case is [tending, and when ordered shall be
taken either by the person and in the manner and with the formal
ities required by the law of the State, District of Columbia, Terri
tory or country, in which the same shal 1 >e taken ; or, .sri-unt/, shall
be taken, if taken in any other State. District or Territory of the
United States, before a commissioner appointed by the governor
of this State, or before a judge, chancellor, justice of the peace,
notary public or civil magistrate of such State, District of Co
lumbia or Territory, respectively, or, if taken out of the I nited
States, before a resident official of the I'nited States, or, if
the deponent be in the military or naval service of the Tinted
States, before a colonel, lieutenant-colonel or major in the army,
or before anj' officer in the navy not below the grade and rank of
lieutenant-commander. And in every such case under the second
methods, the party causing such depositions to be taken shall
notify the adverse party, or his attorney of record, of the time and
place appointed for taking the same; and such notification issued
by the official before whom such deposition is to be taken shall
be served, in the manner hereinbefore provided, such reasonable
time before the taking of such deposition as will »-ive the adverse
party a full opportunity to be present in person or by attorney and
put interrogatories to the deponent, if he think fit.
^EC- 25, Every person, before deposing, shall be sworn to testify
the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, and after
' , = '
giving such deposition shall subscribe his name to such deposition
if taken in long-hand in the presence of the official before whom
the same was taken. Such deposition may be reduced to writing
either in common long-hand by such official or by any person
under his direction and in his presence, including the deponent,
or may be reduced to writing stenographically either by such
official or by some person in his presence and under his direction)
sworn by such official to correctly take down in short-hand, the
evidence as given ; and in the latter case a transcript thereof in
long-hand by writing, typewriting, print or other reproduction,
sworn to by the person stenographically reporting the same and
signed by the deponent, shall be received in evidence. The signa
ture in the latter case shall be attested by the official taking the
deposition or by some magistrate authorized to administer oaths
whether in this state or elsewhere.
Sec. 26. The deposition, so taken, shall be retained by such
. .iiii- i -i
magistrate, ofhcer, or commissioner, until he deliver the same with
, ii i c i • i >j • i i in
ins own hand to the court for which it is taken, or shall, together
with a certificate of its having been duly taken, be by said magis-
trate, officer or commissioner, sealed up and directed to such court
and delivered to the clerk thereof, and remain so sealed until
opened by order of the court or of some justice thereof, or by the
clerk by the consent of the parties ; and any person may be com
pelled to appear and depose as aforesaid within this state, in the
same manner as to appear and testify in court.
Sec. 27. The deposition of anv person taken pursuant to this
. , . . - . , ,
chapter, may be used as evidence m the trial of anv judicial pro-
,. . ... ^ , . , .
ceeding in either division of the supreme court, or in any distinct
court, court of probate, or town council, or before masters in
chancery, referees, or auditors, in which it shall have been taken
to be used ; and if the party that took the same shall neglect to
produce or use it, the adverse party may use the original or a copy
of such deposition, certified by the magistrate before whom it was
taken.
Sec- 28- Either division of the supreme court, or any court of
P1'0^^ or district court, may, on the motion of either party in any
action, suit or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending therein, in
which a deposition may be used, or before any commissioners or
referees appointed by any such court or under a rule from it, grant
a commission to take depositions according to law, whenever it
may be necessary to prevent a failure or delay of justice, on such
terms as such division or court by general or special order may
direct : and such deposition, so taken, may be used in any stage
of said cause, on appeal or otherwise.
Sec. 29. Depositions may be taken as provided in this chapter
at any time : Provided, however, that no deposition, to be used in
a jury -trial, shall be taken during the progress of such trial, except
upon order of the justice presiding at such trial.
Sec. 30. Depositions may be taken in this State, to be used on
the trial of any cause pending in a tribunal of any other State,
District of Columbia, Territory or country, before any person re
siding in this State, to whom a commission shall be directed and
sent by such tribunal, with the formalities prescribed in such com
mission, or if there are none prescribed then according to the
laws of the jurisdiction whence said commission issues.
DEPOSITIONS IN PERPETUAL -MEMOKY.
Sec. 31. Any person, desirous of perpetuating the testimony of
any witness concerning any matter which is or may be the subject
of litigation, as well before as after litigation is commenced, may
present a petition in writing to any justice of the supreme court,
sitting in chambers, in either division, or to any justice of said
court in vacation, or to any justice of a district court, setting forth
the reasons of his application, the name of the witness or wit
nesses, the subject-matter of the controversy, and the names of all
persons known to be interested therein, and praying that the de
position of such witness or witnesses may be taken ; and thereTipon,
if such justice be satisfied of the reasonableness of the peti
tion, he shall designate some notary public or standing master in
chancery to take such deposition, to whom said petition, with
said order of designation thereon, shall be sent.
Sec. 32. Such deposition, in case of the death of any deponent,
his becoming of unsound mind, his absence from this state, or in
ability to attend, may be used as evidence in any court in this
state against any person, who shall have had due notice of the
taking of such deposition, his heirs, executors or administrators.
Sec. 33. The same formalities shall be observed as to notice,
and the same methods may be employed, in the taking of deposi
tions in perpetual memory, as in the taking of other depositions,
and the officer taking the same shall have the same power and au
thority as magistrates taking other depositions, to compel any per
son to appear and depose as aforesaid, within this state, in the
same manner as to appear and testify in court.
Sec. 34. The officer taking such deposition shall seal up and
direct the same, together with the petition therefor, to the clerk of
the common pleas division of the supreme court in the county in
which some one of the persons notified of the taking of the same
shall reside, which clerk, on receiving such deposition and petition,
so directed and sealed up, on payment of legal fees for recording,
as in other cases, shall open and record such deposition and peti
tion and the certificate of the taking of such deposition, in a book
to be specially kept for that purpose, noting on such deposition
the time when he received it and the page of the book in which it
is recorded ; after which he shall deliver such deposition and peti
tion to the party preferring the petition ; and no such deposition
not so recorded shall be received as evidence in any court in this
state, unless the same shall be opened in such court at the time of
the healing of the cause in which it is used.
CERTAIN PROVISIONS RESPECTING EVIDENCE.
Sec. 35. No person shall be disqualified from testifying in any
action at law, suit in equity, or other proceeding at law or in
equity, by reason of his being interested therein or being a party
thereto.
Sec. 3fi. Any court, or any justice thereof, may order the oral
examination of witnesses in open court in any matter pending be
fore such court or justice.
Sec. 37. In the trial of every civil cause, the husband or wife
of either party shall be deemed a competent witness: Prodded,
that neither shall be permitted to give any testimony tending to
criminate the other or to disclose any communication made to him
or her, by the other, during their marriage, except on trials of peti
tions for divorce between them.
Sec. 38. In all divorce cases, the testimony shall Vie given viva
voce in open court, unless (1) the witness shall be unable to attend
by reason of physical disability, in which case a sworn certificate
to that effect from a physician shall be filed with the deposition of
such witness, or (2) unless the witness reside and be out of the
state, or (3) unless the deposition be taken before a standing
master in chancery of the appellate division of the supreme court,
whose fees for taking the same shall be those prescribed by law for
the taking of depositions by notaries public.
Sec. 39. Depositions taken in conformity to the provisions of
this chapter may be used in the trial of any bastardy case.
Sec. 40. No person shall be deemed an incompetent witness
because of his conviction of any crime, or sentence to imprison
ment therefor; but shall be admitted to testify like any other wit
ness, except that conviction or sentence for any crime or mis
demeanor may be shown to affect his credibility.
Sec. 41. No respondent in a criminal prosecution, offering him
self as a witness, shall be excluded from testifying because he is
such respondent ; and neglect or refusal so to testify shall create
no presumption nor be used in argument against him.
Sec. 42. The husband or wife of any respondent in a criminal
prosecution, offering himself or herself as a witness, shall not be
excluded from testifying therein because he or she is the husband
or wife of such respondent.
Sec. 43. It shall not be necessary to prove by the attesting
witness any instrument to the validity of which attestation is not
requisite; and such instrument may be proved by admission or
otherwise, as if there had been no attesting witness thereto.
Sec. 44. Comparison of a disputed writing1 with any writing
. . , .
proved to the satisfaction of the judge to be genuine, shall be per_
. i 1 ' • • ii
imtted to be made by witnesses; and such writings, and the evidence
of witnesses respecting the same, may be submitted to the
court and jury as evidence of the genuineness, or otherwise, of the
writing in dispute.
Sec. 45. In all courts, and before any body or person author,
, 1 ., . . . .
lzed by law to summon witnesses, a copy 01 any notice, advertise.
1 . 1 t t , • 1 •
ment or article, extracted trom any newspaper contained in any of
the bound volumes deposited witli the Rhode Island Historical
Society, or with its cabinet keeper, under the provisions of section
eleven of chapter twenty-two, certified by the said cabinet keeper,
shall be of equal value with the paper itself, and said cabinet
keeper shall be entitled to the same fees for copies and certifi
cates as are allowed by law therefor to town clerks.
Sec. 46. A copy of the statutes of the United States, or of any
. .
State thereof, or of any Territory or country, purporting to be
, ' 1 tt • ' r m ■
published by authority of such United States, State, Territory or
country, and the published reports of the decisions of the courts
. . . .
of the United States, State, Territory or country, or of the District
of Columbia, and the published ordinances of any city or town in
this State, shall be admitted in all the courts of this state as prima
facie evidence of the laws of the United States, State, Territory or
country, or of the District of Columbia, or ordinances of the city
or town under whose authority they respectively purport to have
been published.
Sec. 47. Whenever either party to anv proceeding at law or
... .... ... . . , 1 i n L £ i_i •
equity in either division of the supreme court, shall set forth 111
writing, under oath, upon his know ledge or belief, that the opposite
party is in the possession or control of some document which the
applicant is entitled to examine, and prays for its production, a
justice of such division, to whom application is so made, on such
petition, may order the opposite party, or if the same lie a bodycorporate,
then some officer thereof, to make answer on oath at or
before a time to be fixed in said order, as to what document he or
it so has relating to the matter in dispute between the parties, or
what he knows as to the custody of such document, and, if in his
or its possession or control, whether he or it objects to the pro
duction of the same and the grounds of such objection ; and there
upon such justice, after hearing such petition, answ er and evidence,
shall decide whether or not said document shall be produced, and
order, or decline to order, its production, and, if proper, compel
the party having the same in his or its possession or control to
allow the applicant to examine the same, and if necessary to take
examined copies of the same, or have such original documents
impounded, and may make such further order in the premises as
shall be just.
Sec. 48. The justice making such order may enforce the same
in like manner as if made in a suit in equity.
Sec. 49. In actions of ejectment, and trespass and ejectment,
^° recover possession of lands, tenements or hereditaments, the
plaintiff shall not be required to prove an actual entry under bis
title ; but if he prove that he is entitled to such an estate as he
claims in the premises, whether as heir, devisee, purchaser or oth
erwise, and also that he has a right of entry therein, this shall be
deemed sufficient proof of his seisin, as alleged in his declaration;
but no such action shall be maintained unless the plaintiff has, at
the time of commencing the same, a right of entry into the
premises.
CHAPTER 245.
OF REFEREES, AUDITORS AND MASTERS IN CHANCERY.
Section
1-3. Of rules of court in district court
or in cither division of supreme
court.
4. Parties to agree upon plan of pro
cedure under the rule ; agree
ment to be conclusive ; and
majority report of referees to
be binding.
5. Judgment or decree on report,
and execution accordingly.
6. Rule may be discharged and re
7.
8.
!l.
10.
committed ; but to remain in
force until discharged.
Referees to be sworn.
Referees and auditors may admin
ister oaths, and may summon
and compel attendance of wit
nesses.
Plat to accompany report under
rule concerning title to laud ;
and certified copy of report and
plat to be recorded, if report is
received.
Auditors may be appointed to
settle accounts in cause at issue
in common pleas division.
Section
11. To be sworn, to notify parties of
12.
18.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
meeting ; and if more than one,
majority report to be valid.
May report ex-partc, when.
To report within what time.
Exceptions to the report to be
filed within what time.
Statement of costs to be filed with
report ; fees how paid.
Court may discharge auditors and
appoint others, and may re
commit the report.
Decision of court to be rendered
on the report : and to be final,
when.
Jury-trial is waived when the
reference is by agreement of all
parties.
Supreme court to appoint masters
in chancery, and may make rules
with regard to their proceed
ings and reports.
Writs of protection may be issued
by masters, auditors and ref
erees, in matters before them,
to parties and witnesses.
Section 1. Either division of the supreme court, or any district
. , . .
court, may permit the parties in anv actioii at law or suit in equity,
. ,
pending in said division or court, respectively, to enter into a rule
of court to refer such action or suit to the decision of one or more
referees, to be agreed on by the parties, and also to refer in the
same rule any other actions or causes of action, or suits, that may
subsist between them, either jointly or severally, generally or
specially.
Sec. 2. Though no action or suit be brought or pending, as
aforesaid, any district court may permit any persons or corpora
tions who have any cause or causes of action at law, and either
division of the supreme court may permit any persons or corpora
tions who have any cause or causes of action at law or in equity,
subsisting between them, to enter into a rule of court to refer such
cause or causes of action to the decision of one or more referees,
as aforesaid, either jointly or severally, generally or specially:
Provided, that no rule entered into in any district court under the
provisions of this chapter, shall be made for any claim or claims
which exceed in amount the sum of three hundred dollars.
Sec. 3. Leave may be given under the preceding section, in
either division of the supreme court, to enter the rale in any
county, to be certified to the county where the matter more prop
erly belongs.
Sec. 4. The parties to any rale shall agree upon the mode of
procedure, the defraying of expenses, the time when and manner
in which the referees shall make their report, and the time and
manner of issuing execution on the judgment or decree which the
court shall enter, upon the coming in of the report ; and every
such agreement, made as aforesaid, shall be conclusive upon the
parties and upon their heirs, executors, administrators and suc
cessors, and, if involving real estate, when notice thereof is duly
recorded, upon their assigns. And a majority repoi't of referees
shall be binding and conclusive.
Sec. 5. Upon the coming in of the report of referees, as afore
said, the court shall enter judgment or decree thereon and in con
formity thereto, and issue execution accordingly.
Sec. 6. The court may, at any time in its discretion on motion
of either party, discharge a rale or recommit a rale and report to
the same referees or, with consent of the parties, to other referees ;
but a rale shall remain in full force until so discharged, and shall
be continued without continuance-fees, until report shall be made
thereon.
Sec. 7. Every referee, before he proceeds to the business of the
reference, shall be duly engaged under oath to perform his duties
as such referee ; which oath may be taken before any justice or
clerk of either division of the supreme court or of any district
court, or before any justice of the peace or notary public.
Sec. 8. Referees and auditors shall have power to administer
oaths in all matters tried before them, and also power to compel
witnesses to attend and give testimony under oath in matters
tried before them, in the same manner and by a similar process as
courts of record, and any summons for such witnesses may l>e
issued and signed by any referee or auditor, or by any clerk of
court, notary public or justice of the peace.
Sec. 9. Whenever any rule, entered into under the provisions
of this chapter, shall concern the title to real estate, the referees
shall report their proceedings, with a plat of the real estate in
question, showing the title as affected by their decision ; and if
their report is finally received, a copy of such report and plat, cer
tified by the clerk of the court where the rule is entered, shall be
recorded in the records of land-evidence in the town or city in
which such estate shall be, and the expense of such record shall
be a part of the costs of the party against whom the referees shall
have decided, unless otherwise agreed.
Sec. 10. Whenever a cause is at issue in the common pleas di
vision of the supreme court, in any way involving accounts, the
court, of its own motion, or on application of either party in proper
case, may appoint one or more auditors to hear the parties, ex
amine their vouchers and evidence, state accounts, and report
upon such matters therein as may be ordered by the court.
Sec. 11. The auditor or auditors, after being sworn to a faith
ful and impartial discharge of his or their duties, shall notify the
parties of the time and place of their meeting, and may adjourn
from time to time as may be necessary ; and if there be more than
one auditor, all shall meet and hear the cause, but the report of a
majority shall be valid.
Sec. 12. If the plaintiff or defendant shall unreasonably refuse
or neglect to appear at the time and place appointed for the hear
ing, the auditors may proceed with the cause ex-parte and report
thereon.
Sec. 13. Such auditors shall make their report within such time
as the court shall appoint, or within such time as extended by tin3
court ; but if no time is named, the same shall be returned within
sixty days. If the auditors fail to make report within the pre
scribed time, either party may file notice in writing with the clerk
of the court wherein the case is pending that he elects to end the
reference, and in such case the auditors shall recover no fees.
Sec. 14. The parties to such action shall be allowed two days,
exclusive of Sundays and legal holidays, after the coming in
of the report, and such further time as the court may allow for
cause shown, to examine such report and file their exceptions
thereto.
Sec. 15. The auditors shall file with their report a statement of
the costs both of the plaintiff and of the defendant, and the party
prevailing in the cause shall recover his costs ; and the court shall,
unless all the parties agree on the amount, award such reasonable
compensation to the auditors as shall seem just, to be paid by the
parties as the court shall direct : Provided, that if the auditors so
request, the report shall not be opened until their fees be deter
mined and paid to them. In all cases the report shall be opened
by the clerk or assistant clerk.
Sec. 16. The court may, for cause, discharge the auditors, and
appoint others, or fill vacancies, and may recommit the report for
revision, or further examination, to the same or to other auditors.
Sec. 17. The court, upon the reception of the report, if no legal
cause be shown against the allowance of the same, shall render
such decision thereon as to right and justice shall appertain ; such
decision to be final, unless within two days thereafter the plaintiff
or defendant shall, in writing, file with the clerk of the court in
which said cause is pending, a demand for jury-trial, if the same
has not been waived.
Sec. 18. Every reference to referees or auditors under the pro
visions of this chapter, when made by agreement of all the parties,
shall be deemed a waiver of any claim for jury-trial.
Sec. 19. The supreme court shall appoint in each county one
or more standing masters in chancery to hold office during the
pleasure of the court ; and may make all such rules and orders,
not contrary to law, with regard to proceedings by and before any
masters in chancery, their reports, and exceptions to and hearings
on the same, as to it shall seem expedient.
Sec. 20. Masters in chancery, auditors, and referees, duly ap
pointed, shall hare the same power to issue writs of protection to
parties and witnesses in matters pending before them as is pos
sessed by the courts from which they derive their appointment,
and the signing of such writs by any one master, auditor, or
referee, who has been duly sworn, shall be sufficient.
Section 1. ypon default or submission of the defendant in any
case at law, judgment shall be entered at any time thereafter on
ex-parte motion and proper proof of claim. In answered cases, in
district courts, for possession of tenements let or held at will or
by sufferance, judgment shall be entered on the second day (ex
clusive of Sundays and legal holidays) after rendition of decision,
and in all other answered cases, in any court, judgment shall be
entered on the seventh day following the day of the rendition of
the verdict or the decision of the court, unless some motion oper
ating as a stay be filed, or unless there be an express order of the
court for the entry thereof on some later day, or unless otherwise
provided by statute : Provided, that if said seventh day following
shall be a legal holiday, judgment shall be entered on the next
week-day following said holiday; and provided further, that judg
ment, when entered, shall be entered as of the day when the verdict
or decision, on which such judgment is based, was rendered, or
otherwise as of such other day as may be specially ordered in said
verdict or decision.
Sec. 2. In case of judgment by default, or in case of judgment
entered by mistake, or in case of decrees in all equity causes and
cases following the course of equity, the court entering the same
shall have control over the same for the period of six months after
the entry thereof, and may, for cause shown, set aside the same
and reinstate the case, or make new entry and take other proceed
ings, with proper notice to parties, with or without terms, as it
may by general ride or special order direct.
Sec. 3. In all actions brought for the breach of the condition
of a bond, or to recover a penalty for the non-performance of any
covenant, contract, or agreement, when it shall appear, by verdict,
default, submission, or otherwise, that the condition is broken or
the penalty forfeited, judgment shall be entered in the common
form for the penal sum, but execution shall issue thereon as is
provided in the following three sections.
Sec. 4. The court shall award an execution in such case for so
much of the penal sum as shall then be due and payable in equity
and good conscience, for the breach of the condition, or other non
performance of the contract ; which sum shall be ascertained and
determined by the court, unless either party, before the day fixed
for hearing thereon, shall move to have it assessed by a jury, or
unless the court shall think it proper to have the question so de
cided, in which case the sum so due shall be assessed by a jury.
Sec. 5. If any further sum shall afterwards become due on such
bond or other contract, the plaintiff or his executor or administni
tor may have a scire facias on the judgment from the court in
which it was rendered against the original defendant or his execu
tors, administrators, heirs, devisees or assigns, as the case may be,
suggesting such further breaches of the contract as shall have
occurred, and summoning the adverse party to show cause why
execution should not be awarded upon the judgment for the dam
ages caused by such further breaches.
Sec. 6. The sum due in such suit shall be assessed and de
termined in the same manner as in the original suit, and execution
shall be awarded accordingly, and the like proceedings may be
repeated upon occasion of any further breaches of the same con
tract, as often as they shall occur, until the whole of the penalty
is exhausted.
Sec. 7. Nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to
prevent any person from bringing an action for the breach of any
covenant or other contract instead of suing for the penalty by
which the performance of the covenant or contract may have
been secured.
Sec. 8. In every action of ejectment, or trespass and ejectment,
for possession of any real estate mortgaged, in which the defendant
by his plea shall aver a right of redemption in himself or in the
person under whom he claims, which averment shall not be trav
ersed by the plaintiff, or if traversed shall be found true, the court
before which the same shall be pending shall, by itself or by one
or more judicious and disinterested men by it appointed, ascertain,
according to the rules of equity, the just sum due on such mort
gage ; and shall thereupon render a conditional judgment, that if
the mortgagor, his heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, shall
pay unto the plaintiff in such action, or deposit in the clerk's office
for him, the sum adjudged due as aforesaid, within two months
from the time of entering up judgment, with interest, then the
mortgage, or deed operating as such, shall be void and discharged ;
otherwise the plaintiff shall have his writ of possession.
Sec. 9. Whenever any court shall render final judgment for
debts or damages in two or more personal actions pending at the
same time, in which the parties shall be reversed, and shall sue
and be sued in the same right and capacity, such court shall set
off the debts or damages recovered in such judgments and (pro
vided no execution has already been issued upon either judgment)
shall issue execution for the balance only, in favor of the party to
whom it shall be due, with costs, if costs were recovered, and for
costs only, if no balance upon such set-off be left; and a separate
execution shall be issued in favor of the other party for costs, if
costs were recovered by him: Provided, that in every such case
hereby provided for, the court shall have power to make such
orders as may be required to carry out the intent of this section.
Sec. 10. Every judgment for debt or damages shall draw in
terest to the time of its discharge.
gEC 11. Verdicts, decisions, awards of referees, and reports of
_ ' ' ' 1
masters in cliaucery or of auditors, ascertaining amounts due from
party to party by way of debt or damages, shall, if and in so far as
confirmed by judgment or decree, draw interest on such debt or
damages ; if a verdict or decision, from the time the same is ren
dered, and if an award or report, from the time the same is dated
or made up ; or otherwise from such other day as may be specially
ordered in such verdict, decision, award or report.
gEC j2. The supreme court may by rule authorize the clerk to
_ 1 J J
enter up interlocutory decrees and orders when of course, subject
to be set aside or varied upon application and notice.
Sec- 13- No proceeding in court, hereafter taken, whether by
l>iH, petition, declaration, or other complaint, or rule of
court, or otherwise, and no final order, decree, or judgment, con
cerning the title to any real estate, in this state, or to any interest
or easement therein, shall affect such title (excepting as to parties
thereto and their heirs and devisees, and those baring actual
notice thereof) as to any lights acquired before notice of the
filing, or entry, of the same shall be recorded in the records of
land-evidence in the town or city where such real estate is situa
ted ; such notice to be copied in a book duly indexed and kept for
that purpose. Such notice shall briefly state the names of all the
parties, the court wherein filed, the date of filing, and the sub
stance of such bill, petition, declaration, or other complaint, rule,
order, decree, or judgment, and a description of the real estate
thereby affected, so far and only so far as may be necessary to warn
any person subsequently dealing with the title of such land.
Sec. 14. Whenever any party, having claimed appellate pro
j ir j > o r± r
eeedmgs, whether from a iirobate court, town council, criminal
.° '. . r ' . .....
cases in district court, exceptions from district court in civil cases,
motion for trial or new trial, motion in arrest of judgment, or mo
tion of a similar nature or purpose, shall fail to appear and prose
cute the same in the division appealed to, at the time appointed
by law, the court or tribunal from which such proceedings were
taken shall, on motion of the adverse party, and on order from
the division appealed to, dismissing such appellate proceeding, at
once enter such judgment, order or decree, and as of such date, as
the nature of the case may require, and may impose such addi
tional costs and fines as said court deems just, unless other orders
to the contrary have been made by the division appealed to.
Section 1. In civil actions at law, the party prevailing- shall re
cover costs, except where otherwise specially provided, or as jus
tice may require in the discretion of the court.
Sec. 2. Whenever the plaintiff in any original writ, or bill in
equity, in any court, shall not be an inhabitant of this state, he
shall, upon motion of any defendant therein, give some sufficient
person residing within the state, or some surety company autho
rized to do business therein, as surety for costs, which may be done
by such surety indorsing- his name on such writ or bill in equity
with the words "surety for costs," or by giving- bond therefor.
Sec. 3. The court before which any action at law or statutory
proceeding, whether by appeal or otherwise, or suit in equity, is
pending shall, at any time before final judgment or decree therein,
upon motion of any defendant and for cause shown, require the
plaintiff to give some sufficient person residing within this state,
or some surety company authorized to do business therein, as
surety for costs ; and when such surety has once been given, may,
for cause shown, require the plaintiff to give another surety for
costs, which in either case shall be done in like manner as is pro
vided in the preceding section.
Sec. 4. Upon the neglect of the plaintifl' to comply with an
order of the court requiring a surety, or another surety, as herein
provided, his action or suit shall be dismissed with costs for the
defendant.
Sec. 5. Every such surety shall be liable, in case the plaintiff
shall not make good his case, to pay all costs that shall be awarded
against the plaintiff: Provided, proceedings be brought therefor
within one year after final decree or judgment in such suit or ac
tion.
Sec. 6. In all actions of partition the court before which the
same may be pending may adjudge and determine as to it shall
appear equitable and just, relative to the apportionment of costs
among the parties, plaintiff and defendant, by dividing the same
equally or subjecting either party to the payment of the whole or
any part thereof.
Sec. 7. Any court may divide or apportion between the parties
in a suit pending, the fees of surveyors and other persons per
forming services therein by direction of the court.
Sec. 8. In all actions' of the case for slanderous words that
shall be commenced in any court, in all actions of the case for
malicious prosecution and in all actions of trespass for assault and
battery or imprisonment, that shall be commenced in the common
pleas division of the supreme court, if the court or jury who shall
assess the damages therein shall assess the same at a less sum
than seven dollars, the plaintiff in such case shall recover no more
costs than damages.
Sec. 9. Any court may award costs on motions, petitions or
bills of exceptions, filed in actions, suits and other proceedings at
law or in equity pending before it, for or against either party, in
its discretion, and upon such terms and conditions as it may pre
senile by general rule or special order.
Sec. 10. In all cases where power is conferred upon a single
justice of the supreme court to hear and determine any matter in
vacation, such justice may, in his discretion, award costs to either
or neither party thereto, or divide the same in any proportion be
tween the parties ; such costs to be taxed by the clerk unless
objected to by either party, in which event the same shall be passed
on by the justice, and, if allowed, collected hy execution.
Sec. 11. If the plaintiff in any case shall file his declaration, or
proceeding in equity, as is by law provided, and shall afterward
withdraw or discontinue his suit after pleadings filed by the de
fendant, the defendant in such case shall recover his costs.
Sec. 12. Whenever several persons shall be made defendants
in any action and the same shall be discontinued as to any one or
more of said defendants, or if, upon the trial thereof, any one or
more of them shall be acquitted by verdict or upon a demurrer,
every defendant so discharged or acquitted shall have and recover ,
his costs.
Sec. 13. In all civil actions brought by or against a firm, com
pany or copartnership, and where there is a joint cause of action
or joint defence, costs for travel and attendance of one only of the
parties recovering judgment shall be taxed.
Sec. 14. In all actions on promissory notes in the name of the
i p ,i ■ , n ... .
assignee or indorsee of the note against the original promisor, no
more costs shall be taxed than would by law be taxable if such
action bad been brought in the name of the payee of the note.
Sec. 15. Unless the certificate of a witness, for his attendance
and travel, be filed with the clerk of the court rendering judgment,
i , ,, i » ji t,. » . ■• , . ., ' .
on or before the day of the rendition of judgment m the cause in
which he shall have attended or been summoned, no more fees
shall be taxed in favor of the party procuring such witness than
one dav's attendance and travel: l^'ov'tded, that in a district court
i ■ r i ,i ■ ,
no fees shall be taxed in favor ot the party procuring such witness
in any cause in which jury-trial shall be claimed after decision, un
less there shall be filed with the clerk of said court within one day,
exclusive of Sundays and legal holidays, and, in cases for the pos
session of tenements let or held at will or by sufferance, within three
hours, after decision, the certificate of such witness for his attend
ance and travel, or the summons for such witness; in which latter
case fees shall be taxed for one day's attendance only and travel.
Sec. 16. If it shall appear, on an appeal, motion for new trial,
,. ,. . . i • ,
exception, or other proceeding, from a lower to a higher court, or
, j. . . » ,i ,1 ii ■ .
from one division ot the supreme court to the other, or in cases m
which affidavit of defence is required, that such proceeding has
been taken, or affidavit filed, solely for delay, the court shall im
pose double costs on the party so seeking delay, or, in its discre
tion, treble costs if the case shall seem to warrant it.
SEC. 17. All bills of costs shall be taxed by the clerks of the
respective courts, and. when objected to, shall be revised or approved
by one of the justices of the division in which the judg
ment or order is entered, or by the justice of the district court,
when such case is in a district court.
Sec. 18. The justice of any court who shall examine and approve
any bill of costs, shall strike out and disallow any sum that
may be taxed or demanded for the expense of any w itness, or any
evidence whatsoever, that shall appear to such justice to be over
charged, frivolous, or not material to the issue of the cause; and
no costs shall be allowed for any written evidence, unless the fees
be noted thereon, or certified by the officer who issued or made
out tbe same.
Sec. 19. The expense of printing the record in anv case where
iii -i
the parties agree to have the same printed, or where the court
orders such printing, shall be taxed as other costs in the ease.
Sec. 20. In all appeals from any order, determination, or decree,
to either division of the supreme court, such division, on ren-
dering judgment therein, may award costs for or against the ap
pellant or appellee, or for neither of them, or may apportion the
same between and among the parties appellant and appellee, in
its discretion, according to the circumstances of the ease, and as
to it shall appear equitable and just.
Section 1. Anv person aggrieved by any order or decree of
1 .
aUy court of probate, or of any town council, may, unless pro
' J ' 1
vision be made to the contrary, appeal therefrom to the supreme
court, within forty days next after such order or decree shall
, , , , . . . , , . „ .
have heen made, upon homl hein<;' yive-n hv himself or by some
one in his behalf, to such court of probate ■where the appeal
. .
is from such court, or to the tow n or city in case of other appeals,
with surety or sureties, satisfactory to such court, or to the clerk
thereof if such court shall not then be in session, or to the town
or city clerk in other cases, to prosecute such appeal with effect,
or, in default thereof, to pay all intervening costs and damages
and such costs as the respective division of the supreme court
shall tax against the appellant.
!">E('- -• Either party may, within forty-five days next after such
order or decree, claim a jury-trial, by notice in writing- filed with
the clerk of such probate court or town council, respectively; in
which case the said clerk, at the end of said forty-five days, shall,
on payment of his lawful fees therefor, certify and transmit a copy
of the record of the proceedings appealed from, to the common
pleas division of the supreme court within and for the county in
which such probate court or town council is established,
Skc 3. If neither party claim a iurv-trial within said period of
, ' ' _ nl ,
tortv-hve davs. at the end thereof such clerk shall, on payment of
, .. -, . • i
Ins lawful tees therefor, certify and transmit a copy of the record
of the proceedings appealed from, to the appellate division of the
supreme court.
Sec. t. If iurv-trial lie claimed, and the appeal be certified and
• l* .
transmitted, as aforesaid, the case shall lie called for assignment,
if in Providence county, on the first Monday of the month (exclu
sive of August and September) whose first Monday occurs next
after sixty-five»days from the date of the determination appealed
from ; and in all other counties, the assignment-day shall be the
first day of the session of the common pleas division in said county
whose first day occurs next after the expiration of the period of
sixty-five days from the date of the determination appealed from.
Sec. 5. If jury-trial be not claimed, and the appeal be certified
and transmitted as aforesaid, then the appeal, if from any probate
court or town council in the counties of Newport or Washington,
shall be called for assignment on the first day of the session of
the appellate division at Newport or South Kingstown whose first
day occurs next after sixty-five days from the date of the deter
mination appealed from ; unless, within said forty-five days, the
parties, in writing, direct said appeal to be certified to the appel
late division at Providence, in which case, and in all cases arising
in any other than Newport or Washington counties, all such ap
peals, where no jury-trial is claimed, shall be called for assign
ment in the appellate division at Providence on the first Monday
of the month (exclusive of August and September) whose first
Monday occurs next after sixty-five days from the date of the de
termination appealed from.
Sec. 6. Reasons of appeal, specifically stating the grounds of
such appeal, shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the division
appealed to, within the period of fifty days from the date of deter
mination appealed from ; to which reasons, the appellant shall be
restricted, unless, for cause shown and with or without terms, the
said division allow amendments thereof and additions thereto.
And notice of the appeal, and a copy of the reasons thereof, shall
be served on each of the adverse parties, and said notice of appeal
shall contain a summons to appear on such assignment-day, and
shall be served on each of the adverse parties at least five days
prior to such assignment-day : Provided, that for cause shown
further time may be granted by any justice of the supreme court,
in any county, with or without costs, in his discretion, either to file
a certified copy of the record of the proceedings appealed from, or
reasons of appeal, or to make service, or further service, as afore
said, or as directed by the court; and provided yenerally, that the
appellate court may make such other and further order as, in its
discretion, the circumstances of the case may require.
Sec. 7. No order or decree of a court of probate or town coun
cil, which may be appealed from, or in any collateral proceeding
when the same shall not have been appealed from, shall be deemed
to be invalid, or be quashed, for want of proper form, or for want of
jurisdiction appealing upon the face of the papers, if the court or
council had jurisdiction of the subject-matter of such order or de
cree ; and in cases appealed from, the appellate court having juris
diction of the parties may allow amendments to be made in the
papers filed in any such case, to supply any deficiency, or correct
any errors therein, upon such terms and conditions as the appel
late court may deem proper, and may proceed, without reference
to the order or decree of the court of probate or town council, to
enter such decree or order as the justice of the case may require.
"Whenever it shall be made to appear in any matter or cause pend
ing in any probate court, or upon appeal from any such court in
either division of the supreme court, that any person made a party
thereto, or interested therein, has not been duly notified that the
same has been brought before the court, the jurisdiction of the
court where the same is, over such cause, shall not be defeated
thereby, but the probate court, if such matter or cause is there
in, or if the same is on appeal in either division of the supreme
court, such court or any justice thereof may order such notice to
be given to such person interested, of the said matter or cause,
as in the discretion of said court or justice will afford such party
a reasonable opportunity to appear in said court and be heard
in reference to said matter or cause. Said notice to be served
on such person or party not less than fourteen days before the
return-day thereof, and from and after such service and return all
orders and proceedings of such court in such cause shall be as
effective in binding the person named in such notice as if the
proper notice of the bringing of such matter or cause had been
duly issued and served upon the commencement of such matter or
cause in the court of probate.
Sec. 8. If the party appealing give bond as aforesaid, but neg
lect to prosecute the appeal in manner aforesaid, the division of the
supreme court having jurisdiction of the appeal, upon the com
plaint of any person interested in the order or decree appealed
from, may affirm the same, and may pass such further decree or
order as may be necessary to carry the same into full effect.
Sec. 9. Whenever there shall be more than one appeal in
either division of the supreme court, relating to substantially the
same matter, such division may by special order provide for the
consolidation thereof, for admitting or summoning in other parties
and for giving notice or further notice to parties in interest.
Sec. 10. A copy of the final decree or order entered by the
division appealed to, in any appeal under the provisions of this
chapter, shall be certified and transmitted by the clerk of such
division, without fee therefor, to the tribunal appealed from.
Section 1. Every person aggrieved by the sentence of any dis
trict court on any complaint for any offence that is within the
jurisdiction of such court to try and determine, may appeal from
such sentence to the common pleas division of the supreme court
in the same count}- ; the appeal to be claimed within five days
after the passing of such sentence, and the reasons of appeal to be
entered in such appellate court in the manner hereinafter pro
vided. Such appeal may be claimed either in the court appealed
from, or in the office of the clerk of such court, or at the jail, or at
the state work-house and house of correction, or at the state re
form-school, before any justice of the supreme court, or before the
judge or clerk of the court appealed from, or before any of the
persons authorized to take bail at the penal institutions of the
state.
Sec. 2. Upon every claim of appeal the appellant, to obtain
discharge from immediate imprisonment, shall be required to give
recognizance in such sum as the person taking the recognizance
shall direct, with surety or sureties to the satisfaction of such per
son, conditioned that the appellant will appear and file his written
reasons of appeal in the court appealed to, as hereinafter provided,
and there prosecute his appeal with effect, and abide or perform
the order or sentence of the court appealed to in such case, and
that he will in the meantime keep the peace towards all the people
of this state; and such recognizance shall be taken by any of the
persons before whom appeal may be claimed.
Sec. 3. If the appellant neglect to give such recognizance, he
shall forthwith lie committed to the jail in the same county, or to
the state work-house and house of correction, or to the state re
form-school, as sentenced, there to remain until he give such
recognizance, or be discharged pursuant to law. Whenever such
appellant shall have performed sufficient labor at such place of
detention that the sum thereby earned by him is equal to the
amount of the tine and all the costs in the case in which he was
committed, including- all costs accruing at such place of detention,
and shall have served the full term of imprisonment for which he
was sentenced, the jailer, or other person having' charge of such
place of detention, shall apply, with the consent of such appellant,
the amount so earned by him to the settlement of such fine and
costs, and the appellant shall then be discharged.
Sec. 4. When recognizance is given the same shall at once, by
the person taking the same, be sent to the court appealed to ; and
if the recognizance is taken before some person other than the
judge or clerk of the court appealed from, notice of the taking of
the recognizance shall be certified under the hand of such person
to the clerk or justice of the court appealed from. On notice
of the taking of such recognizance, the clerk or justice of the court
appealed from shall forthwith certify and transmit the recogni
zance and all the papers in said appealed case to the clerk of the
court appealed to ; and receipt shall be given therefor to such
clerk or justice by the clerk of such appellate court.
Sec. 5. In all such appeals, the reasons of appeal shall lie
filed in the common pleas division of the supreme court, if in
Providence county, on or before the first Monday of the month
(exclusive of August and September) whose first Monday occurs
next after ten days from the claiming of such appeal ; and if in
any other county, on or before the first day of the session in that
county whose first day occurs next after ten days from the claim
ing of such appeal ; and such day shall be the assignment-day of
said causes. If such reasons of appeal be not so filed, the appellant
shall be defaulted on his recognizance in the appellate court, and
the clerk thereof shall forthwith issue a capitis to bring in said
appellant; and such cases shall be docketed by themselves, and
the nature of such cases shall be suggested on the docket.
Sec. 6. Every such appellant who shall have been sentenced to
pay a fine and the costs only, having given recognizance as afore
said, may, at any time before the day for his appearance before
the appellate court, pay to the justice or to the clerk of the dis
trict court from whose sentence the appeal was taken, the fine and
costs which have accrued; and thereupon the said justice or clerk
shall discharge the recognizance taken upon the appeal. But if
the recognizance shall have been certified to the appellate court
the recognizance shall be discharged by such court, or by the clerk
thereof, upon presentation of the certificate of the justice or clerk
of the district court appealed from, that the fine and costs have
been paid.
Sec. 7. All criminal appeals shall be heard and tried in the
common pleas division of the supreme court with a jury ; and the
verdict or decision in said division in said case shall be final, ex
cept in matters of law.
Sec. 8. All appeals from any court having jurisdiction of
11 ^ n *
ofl'ences against town or city ordinances, excepting the police
° , * -r-k •
court of the citv of Providence, shall proceed according to the
.. . , '. , , , .
provisions of this chapter ; and in such appeals, the recognizance
1 i,i i . i • . , ■ -i ,
may be taken by any judge of such courts respectively, or by
either of the officials or persons hereinbefore designated and au
thorized to take recognizances.
CHAPTER 250.
OF TAKING QUESTIONS OP LAW TO THE SUPREME COURT.
Section
1. Constitutionality of statute, how
determined, when raised during
or before trial.
2, 3. If verdict or decision be against
party raising constitutional
question, judgment to be
stayed and record certified to
appellate division.
4. Parties to follow the cause as
certified.
5. Constitutional question raised in
appellate division, to be re
served for a special decision.
6. Such questions to have preced
ence ; and to be decided by
all the justices, if practicable.
Decision to be certified to origi
nal tribunal, if other than ap
pellate division.
7. Parties to follow the cause when
sent back.
S. Recognizance in criminal case,
and bond in civil case, to be
given.
t>. On failure to appear in support of
the constitutional question, the
case to be remanded, and the
question not to be raised again.
Section
10. All expenses to be part of costs.
11 Right of appeal not affected by
proceedings on constitutional
question.
12, 13. Exceptions to rulings of dis
trict courts may be taken to ap
pellate division, on claim there
of within what time.
14-16. Written notice of claim of ex
ceptions to be filed in district
court within time limited, aud
bill of exceptions to be filed
within time limited or extended.
17. Exceptions to be considered by
appellate division and remitted
with order thereon; and district
court to take action accord
ingly.
18. Certification of cases on agreed
statement or cm demurrer, to
appellate division; and hearing
and order by appellate division
thereon.
19. Preliminary determination of any
question of law which might
bar criminal proceeding in com
mon pleas division.
Section 1. If, in any cause or proceeding, civil or criminal,
pending before any court, the constitutionality of any act of the
general assembly shall be brought in question, the court shall
rule the act to be constitutional, and in writing note the question
and sufficient of the evidence to explain the same, and such note
and evidence shall form part of the record; and thereafter shall go
•on and try the cause as though such question had not been raised :
Provided, that if the constitutionality of any such act shall be
brought in question in any civil cause or proceeding so pending
but before the trial or hearing thereof shall have begun, the parties
° , ...
to such cause or proceeding may concur in stating said question
in the form of a special case, and the statement thereof shall form
part of the record ; but said cause or proceeding shall not be as
signed for trial or hearing in the court in which the same then is,
until said question shall have been determined, and said question
shall, by the clerk of said court, be at once certified to the appellate
division for its decision of said question, subject to the same pro
cedure thereafter as is provided in this chapter as to such questions.
Sec. 2. If verdict or decision be rendered in the cause against
the party raising the constitutional question, judgment shall be
stayed, and the clerk of the court shall, after the period of five
days from the day on which such verdict or decision w as rendered,
certify and transmit the record of the cause to the appellate di-
vision of the supreme court, for its decision of such constitutional
question.
Sec. 3. If such question arise in a case heard in Newport or
m 1 *
AVashington county, the same shall be certified and transmitted
to the appellate division sitting in such county ; and in any other
county the same shall be certified and transmitted to the api>ellate
division sitting in Providence ; and such case shall come up for
assignment, if certified to Providence, on the first Monday of the
month (exclusive of August and September) whose first Monday
occurs next after five days from such certification, and, if certified
to Newport or South Kingstown, on the first day of the session in
Newport or South Kingstown, respectively, whose first day occurs
next after five days from such certification.
Sec. 4. The parties to such cause shall be bound to follow the
* . .
same to the appellate division of the supreme court, without fur
ther notice, and shall there be heard by said division on the con
stitutional question raised in such cause,
Sec. 5- ^ sucn question arise, in the first instance, in the ap-
pellate division of the supreme court, and the decision be adverse
to the party raising such question, the same shall, if requested, be
reserved for special decision, as if raised in the common pleas di
vision or in any other court.
^EC. 6- appellate division of the supreme court shall give
precedence to causes involving such constitutional questions over
all other business pending liefore it, and shall make special assign*
iiients thereof; and if practicable, such question shall be heard
and considered by all the justices of the supreme court who are
qualified to sit, and shall be decided by the concurrence of a ma
jority of the several opinions of such justices, whether such questions
shall be certified to, or shall arise originally in, said appellate
division as aforesaid. And the appellate division, after having
decided such constitutional question, shall, if the question did not
oiiginally arise before it, send back the record of the cause in
which such constitutional question arose, with its certified decision
thereon, to the tribunal before which such constitutional question
was raised, and shall appoint a time, and if need be a place, where
such tribunal shall proceed with such cause ; and at the appointed
time and place, such tribunal shall meet and proceed to re-try such
cause, or to enter up judgment therein, or take other action, pur
suant to such certified decision.
Sec. 7. The parties in such cause shall be bound to follow the
same from the appellate division of the supreme court to the tribu
nal where it originated, without further notice.
Sec. 8. In any court, other than the appellate division, the party
J ' . ' 1 . ' r, '
to a criminal cause or proceeding-, raising a constitutional question,
x Ti • -i 1
shall give a recognizance, and the party to a civil cause or proceed-
ing, raising a constitutional question, or some one in his behalf,
shall give a bond, to the adverse party, in the sum of one hundred
dollars, with sufficient surety or sureties, conditioned that the party
will follow such cause to the appellate division of the supreme
court, and thence to the tribunal where it originated, and to ap
pear before such tribunal at the time and place appointed by the
appellate division of the supreme court, as aforesaid, and to abide
or perform the final judgment or sentence of such tribunal in such
cause ; and upon refusal or neglect of the party to give such re
cognizance or bond, within five days after verdict or decision ren
dered, such tribunal shall not certify such constitutional question
in manner as aforesaid, but shall proceed as if no such question
had been raised.
Sec. 9. If the party raising such constitutional question shall
uot appear before the appellate division of the siqireme court at
the time and place to which the cause in which it shall be raised
shall have been certified to said appellate division, or shall fail to
prosecute the same, such cause shall be remanded to the tribunal
where it originated, as in section six of this chapter is provided,
and such tribunal shall then proceed in such cause in the same
manner as though such question had not been raised in such cause ;
and said question shall not be raised again in said cause.
Sec. 10. All the expenses arising in the procuring of the deci-
sion of any constitutional question as aforesaid, shall enter into
and make a part of the costs in the cause in which the question is
raised.
Sec. 11. If the party against whom verdict or decision shall be
rendered in a cause in which a constitutional question shall be
raised, have a right of appeal to any tribunal, such right shall not
be affected by the preceding provisions of this chapter, but may
be exercised, within the same time, after the entering up of judg
ment, decree, or sentence, as the case may be, in the cause, pur suant
to the decision of the constitutional question by the appel
late division of the supreme court, and in the same manner, ami
upon the same terms, as is or may Vie provided 1>y law in similar
cases in which no such question is raised.
Sec. 12. Any party to a civil suit, or suit in form civil, com
menced in any district court shall, if he deem himself aggrieved
by any ruling or decision, of such court, on any matter of law
raised by the pleadings, or apparent upon, or brought upon, the
record by a bill of exceptions, be entitled to have such matter of
law heard before and decided by the appellate division of the su
preme court sitting at Providence ; but if said case be one in a
district court in Newport or Washington counties, the question
shall be heard at Newport or South Kingstown, respectively. Ex
ceptions shall be claimed in writing within five days after decision
rendered, excepting as provided in section thirteen.
Sec. 13. If any matter of law be raised as provided in the pre
ceding section, by a defendant in an action for the possession of
tenements let, or held at will or by sufferance, he shall make such
claim within twenty-four hours, exclusive of Sundays or legal holi
days, after rendition of decision in the cause, and also give bond
to the plaintiff, with sufficient surety or sureties, to the satisfaction
of the justice or acting-justice of such district court, and in such
sum as may be ordered by such justice or acting-justice, that he,
said defendant, will pay all rent or other moneys due, or which
may become due, pending the action, under the tenancy, and such
damages and costs as may be awarded against him.
Sec. 14. Every party aggrieved as aforesaid shall, within said
five days or twenty -four hours, respectively, fas provided in the two
preceding sections), after rendition of decision against him, file
written notice in the district court that he claims exceptions. A
statement of the rulings in the case and, if necessary to bring evi
dence upon the record, a statement of such evidence and the rul
ings thereon, shall be presented to the justice who tried the cause
for allowance within said respective periods, or within any exten
sion thereof from time to time on motion therefor ; but the justice
may within said respective periods, extend the time for presenting
such statement for allowance to such time as he may prescribe.
Sec. 15. The statement of the rulings, and of the evidence and
rulings thereon, shall be allowed or disallowed, and signed, by the
justice within said respective periods, or within the further time
prescribed by him ; and if any or all be disallowed, he shall state
his reasons for so doing. Such statements shall be filed within
the time prescribed ; and on the hearing of such exceptions, in
the appellate division, if any such statement be disallowed, the
rulings, and the evidence and the rulings made thereon, may be set
forth by affidavits, subject to counter affidavits, to the satisfaction
of said appellate division, with the same effect as if such state
ments had been allowed and signed by the justice.
Sec. 1C>. If the party aggrieved as aforesaid shall fail to file his
written claim of exceptions within the respective times as before
provided, or the statement of the rulings, or the statement of the
. -, ,. .., . . -, ,. ..
evidence and the rulings thereon, within said respective times, or
within such further time as shall be prescribed by the court, or in
case he do not, within five days after the tiling of the statement
or statements as aforesaid, file his bill of exceptions in the district
court setting forth the specific exceptions on which he desires a
hearing in said appellate division, he shall be considered in de
fault, and judgment shall be entered, with or without additional
costs, in the discretion of the court, as if no claim of exceptions
had been filed. But if said provisions be complied with, then
judgment shall be stayed, and the record of the proceedings in the
cause shall, by the clerk, or judge acting as clerk, of such district
court, be certified and transmitted forthwith to the appellate di-
vision of the supreme court as above provided, and shall be in
order for assignment in said appellate division on the first Mon-
day of the month (exclusive of August and September) whose first
Monday, or on the first day of the sitting of said division at New
port or South Kingstown, respectively, which first day, occurs
next after five days from the filing of said bill of exceptions, as
said exceptions may be heard at Providence, Newport or South
Kingstown, respectively.
Sec. 17. The appellate division, having considered exceptions
brought before it under the provisions of this chapter, may make
! ... , .... i i, i
orders thereon, with or without additional penalty or damages,
and as to costs and further proceedings, and shall remit the cause,
and all the papers therein, with its order thereon, to the district
court from which the exceptions were taken ; and thereupon such
district court shall take proceedings and enter judgment accord
ingly.
Sec. 18. "Whenever any cause on agreed statement of facts
" .
from any district court, or on demurrer, or on agreed statement or
, „ ... . t • . .,1 ,.,
facts, from the common pleas division 01 the supreme court, is to
be certified to the appellate division of the supreme court for deci-
,, , , , , t ■ • ■ . i v ■ • in
sion, the clerk of such district court or common pleas division shall
certify and transmit the record of such cause to the appellate di.
. ! ,n i 11 1 i t • j. • • i
vision, and the cause shall be in order for assignment in said ap
pellate division on the first Monday of the mouth (exclusive of
August and September) whose first Monday, or on the first day
of the sitting of said division at Newport or South Kingstown, re
spectively, which first day, occurs next after twenty days from
such certification, as said matter may be heard at Providence,
Newport or South Kingstown, respectively ; and after hearing
thereof, the appellate division shall make such order thereon, and
shall cause such other proceedings to be had therein, as to law
and justice shall appertain.
Sec. 19. If the defendant in any criminal proceeding comn
> ,i 1 t . • t ji
menced in the common pleas division or pending therein on appeal
from a district court, shall, during the pendency thereof, ex-
cept during trial before a jury, raise any question of law (other
than constitutional questions) which, if decided in his favor, would
bar or terminate such criminal proceeding, said division shall
forthwith certify said question to the appellate division for its de
cision thereon. The appellate division shall give precedence to
the healing of such question over all other business excepting
constitutional questions and shall make special assignments there
of. Having decided stich question it shall send back the record
■with its decision certified thereon to the common pleas division,
which shall take action accordingly.
CHAPTER 251.
OF NEW TRIALS.
Section"
1. New trial as of course, saved in
cases commenced prior to April
12, 1878.
2, 3. Trial, or new trial, may be
granted in what cases.
4. Notice of application for trial, or
new trial, to be given to adverse
party.
5. Right of petition to appellate di
vision for new trial, or for
judgment on special verdict, in
common pleas division.
G. Procedure on such petition for
new trial, or for judgment.
7. Party not precluded by disallow
ance of the statement of evi
dence and rulings.
Section
8. Petition for new trial in criminal
cases, where petitioner is in
jail.
9. Motions in arrest of judgment.
and the like, arising on the
record only.
10. The petition stays judgment until
decision of appellate division i*
certified to common pleas di
vision.
11. Appellate division is to decide all
questions raised, and to remit
the cause with order thereon.
12. Judgment for the petitioner may
be ordered in certain civil cases,
when.
Section 1. In all cases in which actions originally commenced
in the supreme court before the twelfth day of April, one thousand
eight hundred seventy-eight, shall be answered, the party against
whom a verdict has been rendered shall, by filing a written mo
tion with the clerk of the court in which such verdict is rendered,
within forty-eight hours after the rendition of such verdict and
payment of the entry fixed by law as of that date for the entry of
appeals in the supreme court, be entitled, as of course, to a new
trial in such action.
Sec. 2. "Whenever it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction
of the appellate division of the supreme court, by any party or
garnishee in a suit which shall have been tried or decided in the
common pleus division of the supreme court, or in any district
court, within one year previous to such application, that by reason
of accident, mistake, or any unforeseen cause, or for lack of newlydiscovered
evidence, judgment has been rendered in such suit on
discontinuance, non suit, default, or report of referees, or that such
party or garnishee had not a full, fair and impartial trial in such
suit, or, in case a trial has been had in such case, that a new trial
therein should be had, such division may grant such trial or new
trial upon such terms and conditions as it shall prescribe.
Sec. 3. The appellate division of the supreme court may exer.
i • n 1 • e
cise the same powers m granting a trial 111 all cases as above, if
no trial shall have been had therein ; and may exercise the like
■ ■ . • 1 • 11 -1 -j j -i i 1
powers in granting a trial in all cases decided by any probate
court or town council, wherein the party shall have neglected to
prosecute his appeal according to law ; and may also in its dis-
cretion, and with or without terms, on the petition of the accused
who has failed to take the prescribed steps to obtain hearing on
petition for new trial in the regular way, as hereinafter provided,
grant trials or new trials upon indictments or other criminal prose-
tuitions in which verdict or judgment shall have been rendered
against such petitioner: Provided, application therefor shall be
made within one year after such cause shall have been tried or
decided.
Sec. 4. On every application for trial or new trial in the cases
t .. 1 i 11 1
provided for in the two preceding sections, notice thereof shall be
given to the adverse party in such manner as the appellate divis
ion of the supreme court shall, by general rule or special order,
direct, to appear at such time as shall be appointed to answer the
same.
Sec. 5. Either party to a civil suit, or suit in form civil, com,
. ., , t • ■ t t •, » a
mencecl in the common pleas division, including suits for nowage
,. . r1 ...
caused by mill-dams, or proceedings of like nature, or proceedings
for assessment of damages for taking of property, and also in suits
n. t ,. , , 1 . . .' ,-i !
removed from district courts on claim tor jury-tnal, and cases
where jury -trial is claimed on appeal from probate courts and
town councils, or on appeals of like nature, and any person convicted
of an offence in any criminal proceeding commenced in or
brought by appeal before the common pleas division, if he deem
himself aggrieved by any direction, ruling or decision of such di
vision in any matter of law raised by the pleadings, or apparent
upon or brought upon the record by a statement of the rulings, or
of the evidence and the rulings thereon, or, if the case has been
tried by a jury, deem himself entitled to a new trial for reasons
for which a new trial is usually granted at common law, or to a
new trial upon any issue upon which any special verdict has been
found, or to have judgment entered by the common pleas division
in his favor on any special verdict, shall be entitled in any of such
cases to have his petition for a new trial, or for such judgment,
grounded on such matter, heard before and decided by the appel-
late division of the supreme court upon complying with the fol
lowing course of procedure.
Sec. 6. Such party shall take the following steps in the com
mon pleas division where such case was tried :
I'ir.st. Within five days after verdict or decision rendered he
shall file notice in writing in the clerk's office that he intends to
prefer such petition.
Second. If such petition be one founded upon rulings, or upon
evidence and the rulings thereon, to be brought upon the record,
he shall file for allowance in the clerk's office a statement of such
rulings, or of such evidence and rulings thereon within five days,
but the justice who tiied the cause may, within said five days, or
within any extension thereof from time to time on motion therefor,
extend the time for filing such statements to such time as he may
prescribe ; or, in case of his absence or disability, any justice of
said division may extend the time in like manner.
Third. Within fifteen days after said five days, or within fifteen
days after the filing of such statement or statements, a petition for
a new tiial shall be filed setting forth specifically the grounds for
such new trial, or reasons for entering judgment.
In case all these steps have been taken, judgment shall be
stayed ; but in case of any default in any step, judgment shall be
entered as if such claim had never been made, and with or with
out additional costs as said division shall deem proper.
Fourth. In case there be no such default, the clerk of said di
vision shall certify all the papers in said cause to the appellate
division of the supreme court sitting in Providence, Newport or
South Kingstown, as herein provided.
If such case aiise in Newport or Washington county, such pe
tition shall be heard by the appellate division at Newport or South
Kingstown, respectively, unless the parties otherwise agree ; aud
such petition shall come up for assignment for trial in said appel
late division on the first Monday of the month (exclusive of
August and September) whose first Monday, or on the first day of
the sitting of said division at Newport or South Kingstown, re
spectively, which first day, occurs next after five days from the
filing of such petition, as said petition may lie heard at Providence,
Newport or South Kingstown, respectively.
Sec. 7. If the statement of the rulings, or of the evidence and
rulings thereon, be not allowed and signed by the justice who fried
the cause, the matter of such rulings, or of such evidence and the
rulings thereon, may, on the hearing of such petition in the ap
pellate division, be set forth by affidavit, subject to counter affi
davits, to the satisfaction of the appellate division, with the same
effect as if such statement of the rulings, or of the evidence with
the rulings thereon, had been allowed and signed by such justice.
Sec. 8. In any criminal proceeding, if the defendant be in jail,
notice of his claim for a new trial may be filed within said period
of five days with the jailer, to be by him transmitted to the clerk
of said common pleas division, or may be filed by his attorney with
said clerk within said period ; and in all petitions for new trial in
criminal cases the appellate division shall give a hearing as
speedily as possible. The defendant in any criminal proceeding
may, in writing or in open court, at any time after verdict, waive
his right to claim a new trial.
Sec. 9. After conviction, in criminal cases, and after verdict by
the jury, or decision by the court, in civil cases, all motions in
arrest of judgment, and all motions of a similar nature or purpose,
ini ii i ■
arising on the face of the record only, shall be filed within five
days after conviction, verdict, or decision, respectively ; and in
other respects shall follow the same course as claims for new trial
on questions arising on the record, and shall be heard by the
appellate division of the supreme court.
Sec. 10. In all cases where a claim for a new trial, or for judgment
on special verdict, as provided under section five and follow-
1 ' 1
ing sections, motion in arrest of judgment, or motion of a similar
nature or purpose, be duly claimed or made, and the subsequent
proceedings be duly taken in the several stages as above provided,
entry of judgment or sentence in the common pleas division shall
be stayed until the matter has been decided by the appellate di
vision and its decision certified to the common pleas division.
Sec. 11. The appellate division of the supreme court, having
... -, .... . i*i i-i i • i i
considered any petition for a trial or new trial, or for judgment on
. 1 t, i-. if-i j. J.- e
special verdict, or motion in arrest of judgment or any motion of
a similar nature or purpose, preferred under the provisions of this
chapter, may grant or deny the same ; and shall, after deciding all
questions raised by the petition or motion, remit the cause and the
papers therein to the common pleas division of the supreme court,
or district court, respectively, with direction to award a new trial
therein, and direction when the same may come up for assignment,
or direct entiy of judgment, and the date thereof, as the case may
be, and may make such other or further orders as to costs or oth
erwise, in the cause, as to law and justice shall appertain.
Sec. 12. The appellate division may on any petition for a new
... ... #ti*ii • j_ •
trial in any civil cause, rounded in whole or in part on error m
rulings of the justice trying such cause, order that judgment be
entered for the petitioner, if said division shall deem it for the interest
of justice so to do.
Section 1. Writs issuing- from any court shall issue in the
name of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations,
shall be under the seal of the court or the djvision from which
they issue, and shall be signed by the clerk or by one of the jus
tices thereof.
Sec. 2. Any original writ from either division of the supreme
court may be sealed and signed by the clerk of such division in
any county, and be made returnable in any other count}' where
such division may sit.
Sec. 3. Every original writ or writ of mesne process issuing
from the common pleas division of the supreme court, or from a
district court, shall be a writ of summons unless otherwise pro
vided.
Sec. 4. Every writ issuing from either division of the supreme
court shall bear teste of the chief justice of the supreme court ;
but in case he shall be a party to the action or suit, or the office
of the chief justice shall be vacant, such writ shall bear teste of
the senior associate justice of the supreme court, not a party
thereto.
Sec. 5. All writs issuing from the appellate division of the su
preme court shall be in such form as such division shall prescribe,
excepting express provision by statute be made therefor.
Sec. 6. All the writs mentioned in sections two, four and five
of this chapter, shall run throughout the state, and shall be di
rected to the sheriff's of all the counties in the state, or to their
deputies; but if the sheriff' of any county be a party to the action
or suit, the process, if to be served in that county, shall, in addi
tion to the former direction, be directed to the town sergeants in
the county, and may be served by any one of them not a party to
such action or suit.
Sec. 7. Writs issued by a district court shall be made return
able to such court on the days and hours provided by law, and at
such place as the law directs, to be named in such writs, and shall
be directed to the sheriff', his deputies, or to either of the town
sergeants or constables of the county in which the suit shall be
brought ; and in case the defendant has estate, or in case any per
son upon whom it is necessary to make service of said writ be in
any other county than the one in which the suit is brought, the
writ may be also directed to the like officers of such county ; and
every such original writ may contain the declaration at length, or
the declaration may be filed with the writ on the return-day.
Sec. 8. Original writs from any district court duly sealed,
signed and attested, may be made returnable in any other district.
WHITS OK SI MMONS.
Sec. 9. A writ of summons issued from the common pleas di-
, . , i . 11 • .i . n
vision of the supreme court, shaft be substantially m the toflow-
ins form : —
THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties, or to their
(seal) deputies, Greeting :
We command yon to summon of if to be found in
your precinct, to answer the complaint of of on the
return-day hereof (said return-day being the day of
a. d. 18 ) in the common tleas division of the supreme court to
be holden at the court-house in within and for our county
of in an action of as by declaration to be filed in
court will be fully set forth, to the damage of the plaintiff, as he
says, dollars.
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ with your
doings thereon.
Witness, the Honorable , chief justice of our supreme
court, at this day of in the year
, Clerk.
Sec. 10. A writ of summons issued from a district court shall
.
be substantially in the following form : —
THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
sc. To the sheriff of the county of , his deputies, or
(seal) to either of the town sergeants or constables in sai'l
county, . Greeting :
We command you to summon of if to be found
\n y0ur precinct, to answer the complaint of of at a
district court to be holden at in on the day
of at o'clock in the noon, in an action of
[for that (here insert the declaration at length); or, as by
declaration to be filed in court will be fully set forth, as the case
may be,-] to the damage of the plaintiff, as he says, dollars.
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ with your
doings thereon.
Witness, Esq., justice of the district court of the
judicial district, at this day of in the year
, Clerk.
If such writ be issued bv a district court having no clerk, then
- °
the form of attestation shall be substantially as follows : —
Witness my hand at this day of in the
year
Justice of the District Court of the Judicial
District.
WRITS OF ARREST.
Sec. 11. An original writ commanding the arrest of any per-
° .
son not exempt bv law from arrest, may be issued from the com
. . . " , . . ,
mon pleas division of the supreme conn, or from anv district
1 1 '
court.
First. In any action for the recovery of a debt, or of a state or
,i i . , t
town tax, the cause of which accrued previous to the first clay of
July in the year one thousand eight hundred seventy.
Second. In any action on penal statutes, or in any action of
trover, detinue, trespass, trespass on the case, trespass and eject-
' ' l • . . .
ment, trespass quare clausum fi-egit, and scire facias against bail
m criminal cases.
Third. Whenever the plaintiff in an action to be commenced
1 ,
by such writ, his agent or attorney, shall make affidavit, to be in-
, , iii ■ m> i •
dorsed thereon or annexed thereto, that the plaintiff has a just
• • i i i • i-ii ■ • n>
claim against the defendant, that is due, upon winch the plaintiff
, , ' 1 n , , . ,
expects to recover in the action commenced by such writ a sum
sufficient to give jurisdiction to the court to which such writ is
returnable ; and also, either that the defendant to be arrested is
about to leave the state, without leaving therein real or personal
estate whereon an execution that may be obtained in such action
can be served, or, that the defendant to be arrested has committed
fraud either in contracting the debt upon which the action is
founded or in the concealment of his property or in the disposi
tion of the same : Provided, that whenever an arrest shall be made
in accordance with the third clause of this section, the court to
... , ; > i
which the writ is made returnable, or any justice thereof, may by
order, upon application of any defendant so arrested, and for cause
shown upon hearing the parties therein, release such defendant
from such arrest and discharge the bail taken thereon, if any ; but
said writ shall not be abated on account of such release and dis
charge, but may be prosecuted to final judgment in the same man
ner as if no such release and discharge had been granted.
Sec. 12. An original writ of arrest issued from the common
, -i. . . , ,i i ii , t , ,. ii .
pleas division of the supreme court shall be substantially in the
following form : —
THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties or to their
(seal) deputies, Greeting :
We command you to arrest the body of of , if to
be found in your precinct, and in safe custody keep, to an
swer the complaint of of on the return-day hereof
(said return-day being the day of a. d. 18 ) in the
common7 pleas division of the supreme court to be holden at the
court-house in , within and for our county of in an
action of as by declaration to lie filed in court Avill be fully
set forth, to the damage of the plaintiff, as he says, dollars.
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ with your do
ings thereon.
Witness, the Honorable , chief justice of our supreme
court, at this day of in the year
, Clerk.
Sec. 13. An original writ of arrest issued from a district court
shall be substantially in the following form : —
THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
sc. To the sheriff of the county of , hie deputies, or
(seal) to either of the town sergeants or constable* in said
county, Greeting:
We command you to arrest the body of of if to be
found in your precinct, and in safe custody keep, to answer
the complaint of of , {The remainder as in a writ of
summons.)
WRITS OF ATTACHMENT.
Sec. 14. An original writ commanding the attachment of the
real or personal estate of the defendant, including his personal es
tate in the hands or possession of any person, copartnership or
corporation, as the trustee of the defendant, and his stock or
shares in any banking-association or other incorporated company,
may be issued from the common pleas division of the supreme
court, or any district court, whenever the plaintiff in the action to
be commenced by such writ, his agent or attorney, shall make
affidavit, to be indorsed thereon or annexed thereto, that the plain
tiff has a just claim against the defendant, that is due, upon which
the plaintiff expects to recover in such action a sum sufficient to
give jurisdiction to the court to which such writ is returnable.
Sec. 15. An original writ of attachment issued from the com
mon pleas division of the supreme court, shall be substantially in
the following form : —
THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties or to their
(seal) deputies, Greeting :
We command you to attach the goods and chattels and renl
estate of of and them in safe custody keep, and also
to attach the personal estate of the said in the hands or
possession of of as trustee of the said , and
also to attach his stock or shares in any banking-association or
incorporated company, to the value of dollars, and to sum
mon the said to answer the complaint of of
on the return-day hereof (said return-day being the day
of A. D. 18 ) in the COMMON PLEAS DIVISION OF THE SUPREME
COURT to be holden at the court-house in within and for
our county of in an action of as by declaration to
be filed in court will be fully set forth, to the damage of the plain
tiff, as he says, dollars.
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ with your
doing's thereon.
Witness, the Honorable , chief justice of our supreme
court, at this day of in the year
, Clerk.
Sec. 16. An original writ of attachment issued from a district
•
court, shall be substantially in the following' form : —
THE STATE OF KHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
sc. To the sheriff of the county of , his deputies, or
(seal) to either of the town sergeants or constables in said
county, Greeting :
We command you to attach the goods, chattels and real estate of
of and them in safe custody keep, and also to attach
the personal estate of the said in the hands or possession
of of as the trustee of the said ^and also to
attach his stock or shares in any banking-association or incorpora
ted company, to the value of dollars, and to summon the
said to answer ( The remainder as in a writ of summons.)
WHITS OF MESNE PROCESS.
Sec. 17. The plaintiff in any action may, as often as may be
necessary, at any time before final judgment in such action, sue
out of the court in which the action shall have been commenced, a
writ of mesne process commanding the attachment of the real or
personal estate of the defendant, including his personal estate in
the hands or possession of any person, copartnership or corpora
tion, as the trustee of the defendant, and his stock or shares in any
banking-association or other incorporated company, and may also
sue out a writ of mesne process commanding the arrest of the de
fendant unless the defendant has been arrested in such action:
Provided, the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall make affidavit,
to be indorsed on or annexed to said writ, setting forth facts
which would authorize an attachment or arrest upon an original
writ. Such writ of mesne process shall conform, as nearly as may
be, to an original writ of attachment or arrest, and shall be return
able at a time, before final judgment, to 1 >e specified in the writ.
Sec. 18. Whenever a writ of attachment can be issued by any
court, it may command the attachment of the goods and chattels
of the defendant and his real estate and his personal estate in the
hands or possession of any person, copartnership or corporation,
as his trustee, and his stock or shares in any banking-association
or other incorporated company, and may be varied so as to com
mand the attachment of one or more of such classes of property
of the defendant.
Sec. 19. Writs of replevin and scire facias shall lie sul istantially
.......
m the following form : —
WRIT OF REPLEVIN.
THE STATE OP RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties and to their
(seal) deputies, Greeting:
We command you that you replevy, if to be found within your
precinct, the goods and chattels following, viz. : {here enumerate
and particularly describe them) belonging to of
now taken (detained or attached as the case may be) by of
at in the county of and them deliver unto
the said , provided the same are not taken, attached or de
tained upon original writ, mesne process, warrant of distress, or
upon execution as the property of the said ; and summon
the said to appear on the return-day hereof (said returnday
being the day of a. d. 18 ) in the com
mon pleas division of the supreme court to be holden at the
court-house in , within and for our county of , to
answer unto the said in a plea of replevin, that the said
on the day of at said unlawfully, and
without justifiable cause, took the goods and chattels of the said
as aforesaid, and them unlawfully detained unto this day,
{or, unlawfully detained the goods and chattels aforesaid, as the
case may be) to the damage of the said , as he says,
dollars.
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ with your
doings thereon, together with the bond you shall take of the
plaintiff.
Witness, the Honorable , chief justice of our supreme
couii, at this day of in the year
, Clerk.
WRIT OP SCIRE FACIAS.
THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties and to their
(seal) deputies, Greeting:
Whereas of by the consideration of the common
PLEAS DIVISION OF THE SUPREME COURT, holdeil at in OUT
county of , on the day of , recovered judg
ment against of for the sum of dollars and
cents, and costs taxed at , as appears of record, and
execution thereof remains to be done :
We command you, therefore, to summon the said to ap
pear before the common pleas division of the supreme doubt to
be holden at the court-house in within and for our county
of on the day of , to show cause, if any he
has, why the said should not have execution against
for the sums aforesaid.
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ with your
doings thereon.
Witness, the Honorable , chief justice of our supreme
•court, at this day of in the year
, Clerk.
Sec. 20. The form of a writ of scire facias may be varied from
the above to adapt it to use by the district court, and to service
by arrest or attachment.
Sec. 21. District courts may issue writs of replevin where the
goods and chattels to be replevied are of the value of three hun
dred dollars or less, if they were taken, attached or detained in
the district in which such district court is established. They may
also tiy the same and award execution therein, adhering in their
proceedings as near as may be to the forms prescribed by law.
Sec. 22. Whenever an original writ shall issue against more
than one defendant, the forms hereinbefore given may be altered
so as to combine the writ of arrest, the writ of summons and the
writ of attachment, in order that the same may be served on one
or more of the defendants by one form of service and on the other
or others by another form of service.
Sec. 23. Every court shall adapt the form of process neces
sary to be issued thereby, whenever no form is prescribed, so as to
conform to law and, as far as the nature of the case will admit, to
the forms prescribed in this chapter.
Sec. 24. Whenever the name of any defendant or respondent
is not known to the plaintiff, the writ may issue against him by a
fictitious name, or by such description as the plaintiff or com
plainant may select ; and if duly served, it shall not be abated for
that cause but may be amended with or without terms as the
court may order.
Sec. 25. Whenever the clerk of any court shall be a party to an
action, suit or other proceeding, civil or criminal, all processes
issuing from such court thereon shall be signed by a justice thereof.
Sec. 26. Every person who shall wilfully swear falsely to any
statement in an affidavit made by him, by means of which affidavit
a writ of arrest or attachment shall have issued and been served
by arrest or attachment, shall be deemed guilty of perjury.
Sec. 27. In any cause in equity, at or after the filing of the bill,
the complainant may move the appellate division ex-parte to issue
a writ of attachment, to ran against the property of the respond
ents or any respondent in said cause; and such division, in its
discretion, if the cause be of such a nature that an attachment of
property be for the proper security of the complainant, shall on
such motion, properly supported by affidavits to be filed in said
cause, enter an order granting a writ of attachment, which writ
may command the attachment of the real and personal estate of
the defendant, including his personal estate in the hands or pos
session of any person, copartnership or corporation as the trustee
of the defendant and his stock or shares in any banking-associa
tion or other incorporated company, like a writ of attachment at
law in conformity to the specific directions in said order ; and shall
be served in like manner and be subject to like incidents as a writ
of attachment at law, and shall be returnable at such time, and for
such ad damnum, as shall be directed in said order and stated in
such writ. And all property so attached shall be held for the security
of any final decree which the complainant may obtain in
his favor in said cause in pursuance of the directions of the order
granting such writ of attachment.
Section 1. Every original writ issuing from the common pleas
... *" ° i i, i , i i ,i , li
division of the supreme court shall be returnable thereto on the
day named in such writ, and shall be served not less than ten nor
more than sixty days before the return-day thereof, except in those
cases in which special provision by law shall be made to the con
trary ; and every original writ issuing from a district court shall
be served not less than six nor more than twenty days before the
return-day thereof.
SERVICE OK WHITS OK SUMMONS.
Sec. 2. A writ of summons shall be served by reading the same
to the person to be summoned, or by leaving an attested copy
thereof with him or with some person living at his last and usual
place of abode ; or if such writ be issued against any company in
corporated in this state, by leaving an attested copy of such writ,
if a bank, with the cashier thereof ; if an insurance company, with
the president or secretary thereof; and if any other corporation,
with the treasurer thereof or the person executing the duties of
treasurer thereof ; or in such other mode as the charter of such
corporation may prescribe : Provided, that in actions for recovery
of tenements let or held at will or by sufferance, service of a writ
of summons may be made by personal service as above prescribed
or by posting an attested copy thereof on the main door of the
premises. And when a writ of summons shall be issued against a
foreign corporation doing business in this state, it shall be served
by leaving an attested copy thereof with any clerk or agent in this
state of such corporation, or with the attorney of such corporation
appointed under the law upon whom service may be made as
.
against such corporation.
SERVICE OF WHITS OF ARREST.
Sec. 3. Every officer who shall arrest any person by virtue of
J J
any writ of arrest, in a civil action, shall keep such person in safe
custody until he be discharged pursuant to law.
Sec. 4. Every such officer who shall so arrest any person shall
" " 1
let the person so arrested to bail, upon his giving sufficient surety
for his appearance at the court to which such writ or process shall
be returnable, and to abide the final judgment which shall be ren
dered thereon.
Sec. 5. Whoever shall become bail for any person shall give
bond to the sheriff, if the writ or process shall be served by the
sheriff or his deputy ; and if the writ or process shall be served by
a town sergeant or constable, the bail-bond in such case shall be
given to the officer serving the same.
Sec. 6. Instead of giving bond as aforesaid, the person becom
ing bail may indorse his christian name and surname on the back
of the writ or process, which shall hold him as bail to the same
extent as if he had executed and delivered a formal bail-bond.
Sec. 7. Every person committed to jail in any county, except
the county of Providence, by virtue of an arrest on any writ or
process in any civil action, or by surrender of former bail in the
same action, shall be let to bail or to new bail, as the case may
be, in manner before provided, at any time before the rendering
of final judgment on the original writ on which the arrest was
made.
Sec. 8. Every person committed to jail in the county of Provi
dence, on any writ or process in any civil action or by surrender
of former bail in the same action, may be let to bail or to new bail,
as the case may be, by the keeper of said jail or by the officer who
served the writ or process, at any time before final judgment shall
be rendered on the writ on which the arrest was made, upon his
giving sufficient surety for his appearance at the court to which
such writ is returnable, and to abide the final judgment which
shall be rendered thereon.
Sec. 9. In case bail be taken by said keeper, the person be
coming bail shall give bond to the keeper in a penal sum equal to
the damages laid in such writ ; but if bail be taken by the officer
who served such writ, the person becoming bail may give such
bond to the officer, or may indorse his christian name and s\irname
on the back of such writ or process, which shall hold him as
bail as in other cases.
8EUVICE OF WKIT8 OF ATTACHMENT.
^EC- 10- °ffic'e1' commanded by any original writ or writ of
mesne process to attach real estate, or the right, title and interest
of any defendant therein, shall attach the same by leaving an at
tested copy of such writ, with a copy of his doings thereon, with
the town clerk of the town in which such real estate shall be situ
ated, unless there be a recorder of deeds of such town, in which
case he shall, leave such copy with said recorder of deeds ; and the
said town clerk or recorder of deeds, as the case may be, shall
note upon such copy the time, as near as may be, when the same
was left with him, and shall also enter in a book, to be kept by
him for that purpose, the names of the parties in such writ, the
amount of the damages claimed, the time when such copy was
left with him, and the court to which and the time when such writ
is returnable, and shall lie entitled to demand and receive from
such officer a fee of twenty-five cents in each case ; and such officer
shall in all cases also leave an attested copy of such writ, with a
general reference thereon to the real estate attached thereby, to
gether with a statement of the date and time of day of such at
tachment, with the defendant personally, or with some person liv
ing at his last and usual place of abode, if any he have, within the
precinct of the officer ; or if he have none, then such officer shall
send such copy by mail to such defendant, if his address be known
to or can be ascertained by such officer, and shall also in the lastnamed
event leave a like copy with the person, if any, in posses
sion of such real estate.
Sec. 11. Whenever an original writ or writ of mesne process
shall command the officer to whom the same is directed to attach
the goods and chattels of a defendant, such officer shall attach
the same to the value commanded in the writ, if so much can be
found by him, and may attach any less value if the plaintiff or his
attorney shall give order therefor.
Sec. 12. The officer making such attachment shall serve the
defendant, as provided in section one of this chapter, with an at-
. , ., , . . , , , .
tested copy of such writ, having indorsed thereon a general refer
ence to the class or kind of goods and chattels so attached, to
gether with a statement of the place in which they were found,
and of the date and time of day of such attachment, by delivering
such copy to the defendant, if he can be found by such officer
within his precinct, or by leaving the same with some person liv
ing at the last and usual place of abode of the defendant ; or if
he have none within the precinct of such officer, by sending such
copy by mail to such defendant, if his address be known to or can
be ascertained by such officer, and in the last named event by
leaving such copy with some person, if any there be, in possession
of such goods and chattels at the time of their attachment.
Sec. 13. Such officer shall keep the goods and chattels so attached
in his custody, as security to satisfy such judgment or decree
as the plaintiff may obtain, until by due process of law either he
shall sell the same or they shall be withdrawn from his custody.
Sec. 14. The defendant in any writ upon which goods and
, . ....
chattels shall have been attached may, at any tune within fortyi
- * n i ii lii-i f, i
eight hours, exclusive of oundays and legal holidays, after such
attachment, deliver to such officer a bond in the penal sum of the
amount of damages laid in the writ, signed by the defendant or
some one in his behalf, with surety or sureties to the satisfaction
of such officer, with a condition therein that the same shall be null
and void if the final judgment or decree in the action or cause in
which such writ was served shall be forthwith paid and satisfied
after the rendition thereof.
SEC- 15. If the defendant in such writ shall deem the damages
_ °.
laid therein excessive, he may, before giving bond under the provis
ions of this chapter, complain in writing to any justice of the court
from which such writ issued, requesting their reduction ; and such
justice may, after due notice to the plaintiff in such writ, or to his
attorney, and upon cause shown, reduce such damages, and the
amount so fixed shall be the penal sum in such bond,
^EC- Upon accepting a bond given to satisfy a judgment or
decree as herein required, such officer shall lodge the same Avith
the clerk of the court, if there be a clerk, otherwise with the jus
tice of the court, to which the writ in such action shall be return
able, and shall forthwith surrender the goods and chattels attached
by him to the person whose interest therein shall have been at
tached, or from whose possession the same were taken, by virtue
of such writ.
gECi 17. if the defendant in such writ shall not, within the said
'
forty-eight hours, either give such bond or a bond for the value of
u r> » a
the goods and chattels attached, in the manner by law provided,
such officer shall make an inventory of the goods ami chattels by
him attached upon such writ, and return the same as a part of his
doings in his return upon such writ.
^EC. 18- Every officer having goods and chattels attached by
him in lus custody, shall surrender the same, at any time after such
•" _ > J
attachment and before final judgment or decree, to the person
whose interest therein has been attached, or from whose possession
they have been taken, upon being tendered a bond by the de-
J , . ' *1 . ° , J
fendant or some one in his behalf, with sufficient surety or sureties
to the satisfaction of such officer, in double the value of the
goods and chattels so attached, such value to be determined by
the sworn appraisal of any two of three men, one chosen by the
sheriff and one by the defendant or his attorney and the third by
the creditor or his attorney, or in the penal sum of the amount of
damages laid in said writ, with condition that such bond shall be
null and void if, at any time after final judgment or decree ren
dered in the action or cause in which such attachment shall have
been made, upon request therefor, the appraised value of such
goods and chattels shall be paid, or the said goods and chattels
shall, in as good order and condition as when surrendered, be re
turned to the officer taking such bond, or to any officer who shall
be charged with the service of an execution issued upon the judg
ment or decree rendered in such action or cause, unless such
judgment or decree shall have been paid, or shall be immediately
paid, together with the costs upon such execution, upon the mak
ing of such request for the return of such goods and chattels or
the payment of said appraised value.
Sec. 19. If the defendant in any writ shall deem the damages
.
laid therein excessive, or if the property, either real or personal,
,., - , , i n i ■ , ,i
held under anv attachment, shall greatly exceed in value the
amount of the damages laid in such writ, such defendant may, at
any time before final judgment or decree, complain in writing to
any justice of the court from which such writ issued, requesting
the reduction of the amount of such damages or a release of a
portion of the property attached ; and such justice may, after due
notice to the plaintiff in such writ or to his attorney, and upon
cause shown, order such damages to be reduced or a part of the
property attached to be released, and thereafter the attachment
shall be deemed to be reduced or partially released, according to
such order.
Sec. 20. Whenever a writ shall command the attachment of the
i j j « i j. • i- fi- i
snares of the defendant m any corporation, or of his personal
■ i • i-u i. j » i •
estate in the hands of any person, copartnership or corporation,
as trustee, it shall be served by leaving an attested copy thereof,
having indorsed thereon the date and time of day of such service,
with the person or some member of the copartnership named in
such w^rit as trustee ; or if such trustee, or the corporation whose
shares shall be directed to be attached, shall be a bank, with the
cashier thereof; if an insurance company, with the president or
secretary thereof; and if any other corporation, it shall be served
by leaving an attested copy thereof at the manufactory where the
person is employed whose wages are to be trusteed, or at the
usual place where the payment of said wages is made, upon the
treasurer thereof, or the person executing the duties of treasurer
thereof, or the agent or superintendent thereof, or at the
office of such corporation with some person there employed ; and
such officer shall also leave an attested copy of such writ, so in
dorsed, with the defendant or with some person living at his last
and usual place of abode, or if he have none within the precinct
of such officer, the latter shall send such copy to the defendant by
mail, if his address is known to or can be ascertained by such
officer.
Sec. 21. Whenever any writ of attachment shall be duly served
J
bv summons upon the defendant by any officer, properly charged
J ,* . j j . , , , , . ,
with the service thereof, in the manner provided by this chapter,
such service shall be sufficient to bring the cause of action upon
which said writ shall have been issued to trial upon its merits,
whether any valid attachment of property shall have been made
upon said writ or not.
Sec. 22. If the property attached be in one county, and the
-L i- ii ill- j.1
defendant be, or have his usual place of abode, in another county,
the attachment may be made by any proper officer of the county
where the property is situated, and the defendant may be sum
moned by any such officer of any other county where the defendant
may be found or may have his usual place of abode : Provided,
that the officer making the attachment shall not be required to
send a copy of the writ by mail to the address of the defendant in
case the summons shall be served as by law provided.
gEC- 23. Whenever a writ shall command the attachment of the
, i # i , ■ it- 1
shares of the defendant m any corporation, or of his personal
■ • ,.
estate in the hands or possession of any person, copartnership, or
corporation, as trustee, the defendant may, at any time after the
service of such writ upon such trustee, and before final judgment
or decree, deliver to the officer who served such writ, a bond, in
the penal sum of the amount of damages laid in the writ, signed
by the defendant or some one in his behalf, with surety or sureties
to the satisfaction of such officer, with a condition therein that the
same shall be null and void if the final judgment or decree in the
action or cause in which such writ was served shall be forthwith
paid and satisfied after the rendition thereof.
gEC 24. Upon the acceptance of such bond by such officer, he
1 1 i
snaM forthwith deliver to the person, copartnership or corporation,
named as trustee in such writ, a certified copy of the writ,
with an indorsement thereon, signed by said officer, setting forth
therein that he has accepted such bond and released the shares or
personal estate in the hands or possession of such trustee from
such attachment ; and thereupon the shares or personal estate in
the hands or possession of such trustee shall become discharged
from such attachment.
gEC- 25. In case such writ shall have been returned to the
, . , . .
COurt to which it is made returnable, and duly entered therein, or
in case the officer who served such writ shall, from any cause, be
unable to perform the duties mentioned in section twenty-four of
this chapter, then such bond shall be delivered to the clerk of the
court to which such writ is made returnable, if there be a clerk ;
but if there be no clerk, then to the justice thereof ; and such clerk
or justice shall proceed in the manner provided in sections twentythree
and twenty-four of this chapter.
Sec. 26. After the making of any attachment of property upon
anv writ of attachment, subsequent attachments of other property
Qf defendant may be made by any proper officer at any time
before the defendant is served with the said writ ; and if need be,
the plaintiff may amend his writ for the purpose of having such
subsecpient attachment made,
gEC- 27. If no property shall have been attached on any writ of
j- x- j i n t
attachment, no costs of service of the writ of attachment shall be
taxed against the defendant, but only the costs on the summons
made therein.
SERVICE UPON NON-RESIDENT GUARDIANS, EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
SEc. 28. Service of any process at law or in equitv mav be made
-5 I j\iy
anv disinterested person upon any non-resident guardian, ex-
J J ... . , , . , \
ecutor or administrator, appointed or approved by any court of
probate in this state, either by reading such process to him or by
leaving an attested copy thereof with him, or by leaving such copy
with some person living at his last and usual place of abode ; and
in the latter ease by also publishing notice to him in such manner
as the court, out of which such process issues, shall direct. And
if said guardian, executor or administrator shall not appear and
answer such process, said probate court may, in its discretion, re
move such guardian, executor or administrator.
Sec. 29. Such disinterested person, serving process as afore•
i i n i if -i -i t n . mitt
said, shall make affidavit of the service thereof, and of the manner
in which, the time when, and the place where, the service was
made ; or the service thereof may be made by the admission of
such service by said guardian, executor or administrator, on the
back of the process, and by his acknowledgment thereof before
some officer authorized to administer oaths.
GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO SERVICE BV ATTACHMENT.
Sec. 30. The officer to whom a w-rit of attachment shall be di..i
i > -i.™. ,i.i r
rected, commanding therein the attachment of different kinds of
property, shall be entitled to charge for only one attested copy of
such writ for any one person with whom such copy is required to
be left.
Sec. 31. Such officer shall give to any defendant, his agent or
, . ,i . , , i .
attorney, or any other person interested m any action in which a
writ of attachment shall have been served, immediately upon his
request, an attested copy thereof with his doings thereon, upon
being tendered therefor a fee of twenty cents for every page of
two hundred words of such copy.
Sec. 32. The officer who shall make any such attachment shall,
in his return, set forth the time of the day when such attachment
was made, to the end that the priority of attachment may be
known.
Sec. 33. Nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to
. .. .. .
destroy or impair any lien or claim of any person or body-corporate
upon any stock or shares attached under the provisions of this
chapter.
Sec. 34. In case any officer shall distrain for taxes, or by any
m n • i i, ,1 i iii,i#
wan-ant of distress whatsoever, the goods and chattels of any per-
son, he shall proceed in the same manner and be holden to the
same rales as hereinbefore directed in case of attachments in civil
actions.
Sec. 35. No civil process whatsoever shall be served on Sun-
day, but every such service shall be utterly void.
Sec. 36. No corporation, unless incorporated by the general
A 7 1 j o
assembly of this state, or under general law of this state, except-
ing national banking-associations or other corporations existing
under the laws or by the authority of the United States, shall
carry on within this state the business for which it was incorpor
ated, unless it shall have complied with the following sections of
this chapter.
Sec. 37. Every such foreign corporation shall appoint by writ
ten power some competent person resident in this state as its
attorney, with authority to accept service of all process against
such corporation in this state, and upon whom all process, includ
ing the process of garnishment, against such corporation in this
state may be served, and who, in case of garnishment, when the
fees therefor shall have been paid or tendered, shall make the
affidavit required by law in such cases, and who shall cause an
appearance to be entered in like manner as if such corporation had
existed and been duly served with process within this state.
Sec. 38. A copy of such power of attorney, duly certified and
authenticated, shall be filed with the secretary of state ; and copies
thereof, duly certified, shall be received in evidence in all courts
of this state.
Sec. 39. If such attorney shall die or resign or be removed,
such corporation shall make a new appointment as aforesaid and
file a copy with the said secretary of state as above prescribed, so
that at all times there shall be within this state an attorney au
thorized to accept service of process and to enter an appearance
as aforesaid ; and no such power of attorney shall be revoked until
after a like power shall have been given to some other competent
person resident in this state, and a copy thereof filed as aforesaid.
Sec. 40. Service of process upon such attorney shall be deemed
sufficient service upon his principal.
Sec. 41. No person shall act within this state, as agent or officer
of any such foreign corporation, unless such corporation shall
have appointed an attorney as hereinbefore provided, and every
person so acting shall be fined one thousand dollars.
Sec. 42. The preceding six sections shall not be held to apply
to foreign insurance companies doing business in this state, but
such companies shall continue to be governed by chapter one
hundred eighty-two.
Section 1. In all attachments of real estate, or of goods and
. »
chattels, or of personal estate in the hands of a trustee, or of
stock or shares in any banking-association or other incorporated
company, he who shall first procure any such attachment to be
made for any just debt or damages shall be entitled to have his
debt or damages satisfied before any other demand for which the
same shall be attached or taken by execution at the suit of any
other person, and all others in order of attachment.
Sec. 2. "Whenever any officer shall attach on any writ any live
, . .. , , ;
animals or any goods or chattels which are liable to perish or
waste, or to be greatly reduced in value by keeping, or which can
not be kept without great and disproportionate expense, any justice
of the court out of which such writ shall have been issued may, on
the written application of any person interested in such property,
cause the defendant and the attaching creditor, or complainant,
their attorneys or agents, to be notified to appear at a time and
place appointed for that purpose, to show cause why the same
should not be sold.
Sec. 3. If, after reasonable notice, no person appear, or no
. • j • u t i
sufficient cause to the contrary he shown, said justice may direct
the officer to sell the same in such manner, on such notice, and at
such time, as said justice may prescribe ; and such officer shall
immediately pay the proceeds of such sales, after deducting there
from the necessary charges thereof, into the registry of such
court, there to be held as security to satisfy such judgment or
decree as the attaching- creditor or complainant may recover.
Sec. 4. Personal estate, when mortgaged and in the possession
of the mortgagor, and while the same is redeemable at law or in
equity, may be attached on writ of attachment against the mort
gagor, in the same maimer as his other personal estate.
Sec. 5. When attached, such mortgaged estate may be sold
upon the application of the mortgagee or of either of the parties
to the suit, in the manner provided for the sale of pei'ishable
goods and chattels when attached.
Sec. 6. Upon any such sale, the attaching officer shall first
apply so much of the proceeds of the sale as may be necessary to
pay the amount for which the said property was mortgaged, with
such deduction for interest for the anticipated payment, or allow
ance for damages for such anticipated payment, as maybe allowed
by the justice directing the sale ; and the officer shall pay only
the balance into the registry of the court for the purposes of the
attachment.
Sec. 7. The plaintiff in any such attachment may redeem the
mortgaged estate in the same manner as the mortgagor might
have done ; and in case of such redemption, the plaintiff shall
have the same lien on the property for the amount paid by him,
with interest, as the mortgagee had.
Sec. 8. If the mortgage be not redeemed by the plaintiff, or
the mortgaged property sold as before mentioned, before the time
of redemption expires, the attachment shall become void.
Sec. 9. Whenever any banking - association or incorporated
company shall be served with a copy of a writ attaching its stock
or shares, if a bank, the cashier thereof, if an insurance company,
the president or secretary thereof, and if any other corporation,
the treasurer thereof or person executing the duties of treasurer,
shall, if he shall have been tendered his fee of two dollars and his
traveling fee as a witness in either division of the supreme court,
and one dollar and like traveling fee in any other court, render an
account upon oath to the court to which such writ shall be re
turnable of what stock or shares the defendant had in such com
pany at the time of the serving of such writ. Such account shall
be filed, in any district court, on or before the entry-day of the
case, or within the period of six days after such entry-day; and
in any other court on or before the assignment-day of the case.
Sec. 10. Whenever a copy of a writ shall have been left for the
purpose of attaching the personal estate of the defendant in the
hands or possession of any person, copartnership or corporation,
as trustee, such person, or any member of such copartnership, or
any officer of such corporation, shall render an account in writing,
upon oath, to the court to which such writ is returnable, of what
estate such person, copartnership or corporation, respectively, had
in his or its hands or possession at the time such writ was served,
if any ; or if he or it had none, either directly or indirectly, shall
return such fact in writing-, under oath, to such court. Such ac
count shall be filed, in any district court, on or before the entryday
of the case, or within the period of six days after such entryday;
and in any other court, on or before the assignment-day of
the case.
Sec. 11. The disclosure made by virtue of either of the two
preceding sections shall be sworn to before any person authorized
to administer oaths, and shall be filed with the clerk of the court,
if there be a clerk ; otherwise, with the court to which such writ
shall be returnable. Said party riling said disclosure shall be en
titled, on tendering a copy thereof and a fee of twenty-five cents
to the clerk or judge, as the case may be, to have the said copy
certified by said clerk or judge with whom the original is filed, and
a certificate indorsed on such copy of the fact and date of filing.
Sec. 12. Either party may examine the person so making oath,
upon written interrogatories, to be filed with such clerk, or court,
if there be no clerk ; and such person, after having been furnished
with a copy of such interrogatories, shall answer the same resjionsively
in writing, under oath administered as aforesaid, and shall
return the answer to such clerk, or to such court, if there be no
clerk, at such time as such court shall by general rule or by special
order in such case direct.
Sec. 13. If it shall appear by the disclosure of the person mak
ing such oath, that the person, copartnership or corporation, served
with a copy of such writ, had at the time of service thereof any of
the personal estate of the defendant in his or its hands, then and
in such case the plaintiff, after having recovered judgment or de
cree against such defendant, may bring his action against such
person, copartnership or corporation, to recover so much as will
satisfy such judgment or decree, with interest and costs, if there
shall appear by such disclosure to be a sufficiency for the same;
otherwise, for so much as shall appear by the same to be in his or
its hands.
Sec. 14. "Whenever it shall appear that several persons, copart
nerships or corporations, had property of the defendant as such
trustee, the plaintiff may sue each separately and recover the
amount in his hands, until such plaintiff shall receive full payment
of his judgment or decree against the original defendant, with
interest and costs.
Sec. 15. Any trustee, after final judgment or decree, against
the defendant, may satisfy such judgment or decree, or any part
thereof, to the amount of the estate attached in his hands, before
any suit shall be brought against him therefor ; and such payment
shall avail for his discharge, as against both plaintiff and defend
ant, for the amount thereof.
Sec. 16. If it shall appear by the disclosure that the personal
estate in the hands of the trustee belonging to the defendant did
not consist of money, but of one or more specific articles, such
trustee may, after final judgment or decree shall have been ren
dered against the defendant, surrender or deliver to the officer
charged with the execution issued on such judgment or decree,
such specific articles, in order that the same may be taken on such
execution.
Sec. 17. Such surrender or delivery shall be a good discharge
to the trustee for such articles, as to both plaintiff and defendant
in the action.
Sec. 18. Whenever any person shall lie served with a copy of a
writ by which he shall be sought to be charged as trustee of the
defendant named therein, and siich person shall appear and answer
to the action or suit so commenced, as to whether he is or is not a
trastee of the defendant, the court in which such action or suit is
brought or may be pending, shall determine whether the person
so served is properly chargeable as the trustee of the defendant ;
and if chargeable, to what extent.
Sec. 19. Any person summoned as trustee of a defendant
making a false answer or affidavit in any case, shall be liable to
the plaintiff in an action of the case for any damages which may
result to him from such false answer or affidavit.
Sec. 20. If any person, copartnership or corporation, after
being served as trustee with a copy of any writ, and after having
been tendered at the time of such service, two dollars and his
traveling-fees as a witness in either division of the supreme court,
and one dollar and like traveling-fees in any other court, shall
refuse or neglect to render such an account on oath as aforesaid,
of what personal estate of the defendant such trustee had in his
hands at the time of the service of such copy, such trustee shall
be liable to satisfy the judgment or decree that the plaintiff shall
obtain against the defendant in such writ, to be recovered by action
on the case, excepting as is hereafter provided, in chapter two
hundred fifty-six, in case of accident or mistake.
Sec. 21. If several trustees shall neglect or refuse to render
an account upon oath in the same case, then the plaintiff shall
bring his action against all such trustees jointly, and in no other
manner.
Sec. 22. Every person who shall be served with such copy of a
writ against any defendant may file an answer to such action or
suit and defend the same in behalf and in the name of the de
fendant.
Sec. 23. If it shall appear by such disclosure that the person
who, or copartnership or corporation which, had been served as
trustee with a copy of such writ had not any of the personal estate
of the defendant in his or its hands, then such action or suit shall
be dismissed, and such trustee who shall appear to defend the
same shall recover his costs, unless the writ has been duly served
on the defendant.
Sec. 24. "Whenever the personal estate of any defendant is attached
on trustee-process, any person claiming said personal
estate, under an assignment or otherwise, may on his own motion
' ° . .
become a party to the action or suit so far as respects the title to
t
said personal estate.
Sec. 25. The answer sworn to by a trustee shall be considered
true in deciding how far said tnistee is chargeable ; but either
party to the suit, or any claimant of the estate so attached, may
allege and prove any facts, not stated nor denied by said trustee,
that may be material in so deciding.
Sec. 26. Any question of fact arising upon such additional
, . , , . , . , ,
allegations may be tried and determined in the manner that the
court shall direct.
Sec. 27. In all such cases the costs may be apportioned as the
court may determine.
Sec. 28. No assignment of future earnings shall be valid, excepting
as between the parties thereto, until the same has been
recorded in a book to be kept for that purpose in the office of the
recorder of deeds, if there be one, otherwise in the office of the
clerk, of the town or city in which the assignor resides, if a resi
dent of this state, or in which he is employed, if not a resident of
this state.
Sec. 29. Every person, copartnership or corporation served with
a copy of a writ for attaching the estate of another in his or its
hands or possession shall be paid all lawful costs and charges
which he or it shall incur in consequence of being served with
such writ of attachment by the person who brings the action or
suit; and so much of such charge as shall be judged reasonable
by the court before whom the cause shall be pending shall be al
lowed in the bill of costs.
Sec. 30. The word "trustee," wherever occurring in this title,
shall be deemed to include the words "attorney," "agent,"
" factor," or " debtor."
CHAPTER 255.
OF EXEMPTIONS FROM ARREST AND FROM ATTACHMENT.
_
Section Section
1-4. Exemption from arrest on civil 5. Exemption of certain personal
process of women, voters, property from attachment,
militia men and general assem
bly-men, when.
Section 1. No female shall be arrested on original writ in any
... -. , .
action founded on contract.
Sec. 2. No person entitled to vote shall be liable to arrest upon
any civil process on the days of election of city or town officer's, of
state officers, representatives in congress, or of electors of presi
dent and vice-president of the United States, or on the day pre
ceding or on the day following such election.
Sec. 3. No officer, non-commissioned officer, or private, shall
be arrested on civil process while going to, or coming from, or re
maining at, any place which he shall have been ordered to attend
for the election of any military officer or the performance of any
military duty.
Sec. 4. The person of every member of the general assembly
shall be exempt from arrest, and his estate from attachment, in any
civil action, during the session of the general assembly, and two
days before the commencement and two days after the termina
tion thereof ; and all process served contrary hereto shall be void.
Sec. 5. The following goods and property shall be exempt
from attachment on any warrant of distress or on any other writ,
original, mesne, or judicial : —
1. The necessary wearing-apparel of a debtor or of his family,
if he have a family.
2. The working-tools of a debtor necessary in his or her usual
occupation, not exceeding in value the sum of two hundred dol
lars, and the professional library of any professional man in actual
practice.
3. The household furniture and family stores of a housekeeper
in the whole, including beds and bedding, not exceeding in value
the sum of three hundred dollars.
4. The bibles, school-books and other books in use in the
family, not exceeding in value the sum of three hundred dollars.
5. One cow and one and a half tons of hay of a housekeeper.
6. One hog and one pig of a houskeeper, and the pork of such
hog and pig when slaughtered.
7. The uniform, arms, ammunition and equipments of every
officer, non-commissioned officer and private in the militia, and
the arms, ammunition and equipments of any person which are
kept for use and not for sale.
8. The debtor's interest in one pew in any church or meeting
house in which he or his family usually worship.
!). The debtor's interest in one lot or right of burial, as the case
may be, in any cemetery.
10. Wages due or accruing to any seaman.
11. Debts secured by bills of exchange or negotiable promissory
notes.
12. The salary or wages due or payable to any debtor not
exceeding the sum of ten dollars, except when the cause of action
is for necessaries furnished the defendant.
13. The salary and wages of the wife and of the minor children
of any debtor.
14. Such other property, real, personal, or mixed, in possession
, „ , ,i# i . j
or action, as is or shall be exempted from attachment and execu
tion, either permanently or temporarily, by general or special acts,
charters of incorporation, or by the policy of the law.
CHAPTER 256.
OF EXECUTIONS.
Section
1. Style of executions.
2. When to issue.
3. May be stayed for cause, on mo
tion.
4. Original or alias may be issued,
when.
5. Lost or destroyed, may be re
placed by order of a justice of
the supreme court ; by justice
of district court, when.
6. 7. When returnable.
8. Fees to be paid.
9. Note to be made on execution of
time of judgment; also of form
of action, when.
10. Execution not to issue against the
body of a woman, when.
11. Execution against the body of de
fendant may be issued in what
cases. |
12. Form of the execution from the
common pleas division.
13. Form of the writ of possession 21
from common pleas division.
Section
14. Form of the execution from dis
15.
1(1.
17.
18.
19.
20.
trict courts.
Form of the writ of possession
from district courts.
Form of execution against the
body.
Execution not to issue against the
body when defendant is released
from arrest and bail is dis
charged.
Of form of execution, where not
prescribed.
Execution is to be levied on the
property attached, how soon
after judgment or decree, or at
tachment is discharged.
Form of execution in case of trus
tee-process, where trustee is
charged to the extent of prop
erty disclosed; form, where
trustee is charged on failure to
render account.
Relief of a trustee charged on
failure to render account.
Section 1. Executions issued by any court shall issue in the
name of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations and
shall lie signed, sealed, bear teste and run in like manner as
original writs.
Sec. 2. Executions, unless otherwise ordered or provided by
law, shall issue after twenty-four hours immediately following the
entry of judgment.
Sec. 3. Any justice of the appellate division of the supreme
court may, upon motion and for cause shown, stay execution upon
any judgment or decree rendered in any court, until further order.
Sec. 4. Executions, original or alias, may be issued by any
court at any time within six years from the rendition of the jiuk
ment originally or from the return-day of the last execution.
*">EC- 5- -^UJ' iusti°e °* *>\ie supreme court, at any time, on applica*ion
made to him by the plaintiff in any original, alias or
pluries execution, issued from the office of the clerk of either
division of the supreme court in any county, or from any district
court, which has been lost or destroyed previous to the satisfac
tion thereof, upon proof, to his satisfaction, of the loss or destruc
tion of such execution, may authorize the clerk of such division
or court from whose office, or the justice by whom said execution
was issued, to issue another execution in the place of the one so
^os^ or destroyed ; and the justice of any district court, upon ap-
plication made to him by the plaintiff in any such execution which
has been lost or destroyed previous to the satisfaction thereof,
upon proof, to the satisfaction of said justice, that said execution
has been lost or destroyed, may issue or authorize the clerk there
of to issue another execution in the place of the one so lost or
destroyed.
Sec- 6- EveiT execution issued by either division of the suPreme
court shall, unless otherwise specially provided therein, be
made returnable thereto six months from the date of such execu
tion, and shall be returned by the officer charged therewith; and
if such officer shall not return the same within that time, he shall
be liable therefor as by law prescribed.
Sec- 7- Every execution issued by any district court shall, un
less otherwise specially provided therein, be returnable three
months after the date thereof, and be returned to the district court
which issued it.
gEC_ 8. No person shall be entitled to an execution until the
fee of the clerk or justice thereon shall have been paid.
Sec. <). The clerk of any court, or justice, issuing an execution,
. \ ' .4 ' ° . '
a note on the margin thereof, or in the body thereof, the time
when the judgment recited in the same was rendered, and also in
which, if any of the following actions, the execution was awarded
against the defendant, to wit : in any action brought against him
upon any penal statute, or in trover, replevin, detinue, trespass,
trespass on the case, trespass and ejectment and trespass quare
clausum fregit in which the title to the close was not in dis
pute.
Sec. 10. No execution shall issue against the body of any
Pnn i i
female on any judgment founded on a contract not under seal
where the debt or damages do not exceed fifty dollars, but in such
case the execution shall issue against the goods and chattels and
real estate of the female against whom such judgment shall have
been rendered.
&EC- H- An execution, original, alias or pluries, may issue
against the body of a defendant not exempt from arrest in an ac
tion, whenever the same shall have been brought upon a peual
statute, or in trover, replevin, detinue, trespass, trespass ou the
case, trespass quare clausum fregit in which the title to the close
was not in dispute, scire facias against bail in criminal cases, or
whenever the action being for the recovery of a debt or a state or
town tax, the cause thereof accrued before the thirty -first day of
March, one thousand eight hundred and seventy, or whenever
such defendant shall have been arrested and held to bail upon an
original writ or writ of mesne process therein, or whenever it
shall be made to appear to the court or division which ren
dered the judgment in such action, or to any justice thereof,
that such defendant is about to leave the state without leaving
therein sufficient real or personal estate to satisfy such judg
ment, or that such defendant has been guilty of fraud either in
contracting the debt for the recovery of which such judgment
was rendered, or in the concealment, detention or disposition of
his property.
Sec. 12. A writ of execution, issued by the common pleas
' . .
division of the supreme court shall be substantially in the following
form : —
THE STATE OK RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
sc. 'To the sheriffs of our several counties, or to their
(seal) deputies, Greeting :
Whereas of by the consideration of the COMMON
pleas division of the supreme court holden at within and
for our county of did on the day of recover
j\idgment against of for the sum of debt (or
damages) and costs of suit, as to us appears of record,
whereof execution remains to Vie done: We command you, therefore,
that of the goods and chattels and real estate of the said
, within your precinct, you cause to be levied and paid unto
the said the aforesaid sums, being in the whole, with
twenty -five cents more for this writ ; and thereof also to satisfy
yourself for your own fees ; [and for want of the goods and chat
tels and real estate of the said to be found in your precinct
to satisfy and pay the same as aforesaid, we command you to take
the body of the said and commit unto our countyjail
in your precinct, therein to be kept until pay the full
sum above mentioned, with your fees, or until be discharged
by the said or otherwise by order of law.]
Hereof fail not and make true return of this writ and of your
doings thereon, to our common pleas division at within and
for our county of on the day of A. D.
Witness the Honorable chief justice of our supreme court
at this day of in the year
Clerk.
Sec. 13. Writs of possession issuing from the common pleas
division shall be substantially in the following form : —
THE STATE OK RHODE ISLAND AND PItOVIDE.NCE PLANTATIONS.
sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties, or to their
(seal) deputies, Greeting :
Whereas of by the consideration of the common
pleas division of the supreme court holden at within and
for our county of did on the day of recover
judgment for the possession of with the privileges and ap
purtenances thereto belonging against of who had
uujustly withholden from the possession thereof, and also
by the consideration of the same division recovered judgment
against the said for the sum of costs of suit, as to us
appears of record, whereof execution remains to be done : We
command you, therefore, that without delay you cause the said
to have possession of and in the said with the priv
ileges and appurtenances thereunto belonging. We also command
you that of the goods and chattels and real estate of the said
, within your precinct, you cause to be levied and paid to
the said the aforesaid sum of with twenty -five cents
more for this writ, and thereof also to satisfy yourself for your own
fees; [and for want of the goods and chattels and real estate of
the said to be found in your precinct to satisfy and pay the
same as aforesaid, we command you to take the body of the said
and commit unto our county -jail in your precinct,
therein to be kept until pay the full sum above mentioned,
with your fees, or until be discharged by the said
or otherwise by order of law.]
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ and of your
doings thereon, to our common pleas division at within
and for our county of on the day of A. D.
Witness, the Honorable chief justice of our supreme
court at this dav of in the year
Clerk.
Sec. 14. A writ of execution issued by a district court shall be
, . ,, . , ... . ,
substantially in the following form : —
THE STATE OK RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
sc. To the sheriff, his deputy, or to either of the town sergeant*
(seal) or constables in the county of Greeting :
Whereas of at a district court holden at
did on the day of recover judgment of said court
against of for the sum of debt (or damages),
and costs of suit taxed at , as of record of said court doth
appear, which sums, in the whole, amount to for which ex-
ecution remains to lie done: We command vou, therefore, that
-it,,, n i <. ,i " • n -n •
of the goods and chattels and real estate of the said within
your precinct, you levy the said sum of together with
for this execution, as also your lawful fees for serving the
same, and therewith satisfy and pay the said ; [and for
want of the goods and chattels and real estate of the said
to be by you found within your precinct, to satisfy and pay the
same sums as aforesaid, we command you to take the body of the
said into your custody, and safely secure in our jail
in until satisfy and pay the said the sums
aforesaid and your fees, or until be by the said
therefrom discharged, or otherwise by order of law.]
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ and of your
doings thereon, on the day of a. d.
Witness, Esq., justice of the district court of the
judicial district, this day of in the year
Clerk.
If such writ be issued by a district court having no clerk, then
the form of attestation shall be as follows :
Witness my hand at this day of in the
year
Justice of the District Court of the Judicial District.
Sec. 15. Writs of possession, issuing from a district court, shall
be substantially in the following form : —
THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
sc. To the sheriff, his deputy, or to either of the town sergeants
(seal) or constables in the county of Greeting:
Whereas of at a DISTRICT court holden at
did on the day of recover judgment of said court
for the possession of with the privileges and appurten
ances thereto belonging against of who had unjustly
withholden from the possession thereof, and also, by the
consideration of the same court, recovered judgment against the
said for the sum of costs of suit, as of record of said
court doth appear, whereof execution remains to be done: We
command you, therefore, that without delay you cause the said
to have possession of and in the said with the priv
ileges and appurtenances thereunto belonging. We also com
mand you that of the goods and chattels and real estate of the
said within your precinct, you cause to be levied and paid
to the said the aforesaid sum of with twenty -rive cents
more for this writ, and thereof also to satisfy yourself for your own
fees ; [and for want of the goods and chattels and real estate of
the said to be found in your precinct to satisfy and pay the
same as aforesaid, we command you to take the body of the said
and commit unto our county jail, in your precinct,
therein to be kept until pay the full sum above mentioned,
with your fees, or until be discharged by the said ,
or otherwise by order of law.]
Hereof fail not, and make true return of this writ and of your
doings thereon, on the day of A. D.
Witness, , Esq., justice of the district court of the
judicial district, this day of in the year
Clerk.
If such writ be issued by a district court having no clerk, then
the form of attestation shall be as follows :
Witness my hand at this day of in the
year
Justice of the District Court of the Judicial District.
Sec. 16. If the execution issued by any court be one which
may ran against the body of the defendant, the words included in
brackets in the forms prescribed in the preceding sections of this
chapter shall be retained, otherwise they shall be stricken out.
Sec. 17. Whenever the court in which an original writ is re
turnable shall release the defendant therein from arrest and dis
charge the bail, if any taken thereon, the execution in such actions
shall not issue against the body of the defendant so released, but
against his goods and chattels and real estate.
Sec. 18. The court issuing an execution in any case in which
no form shall be prescribed, may vary the above forms so as to
comply with the law.
Sec. li). Whenever final judgment or decree shall be rendered
for the plaintiff in any action or suit in which the writ was served
by attachment of real estate, or goods and chattels, or stock or
shares in any incorporated company, the execution issued on such
judgment or decree shall be levied on the property so attached, as
soon as may be ; but if execution shall not be so levied within six
months, if issued from either division of the supreme court and
within three months, if issued from a district court, from the day
of entry of judgment or decree, the property attached shall be dis
charged of such attachment.
Sec. 20. In every execution issued against any defendant in an
action or suit in which another person shall have been charged as
the trustee of such defendant, there shall be inserted next after
the words "goods and chattels and real estate of the defendant,"
the words following, namely, " and especially the personal estate
of the said defendant in the hands or possession of {here insert the
name of the trustee) charged as trustee of the said defendant to the
extent of {here insert the amount for which the trustee is charged)" ;
or if the trustee shall be charged by his default in not filing the
necessary affidavit in said cause, insert in lieu of the clause fixingthe
extent to which such trustee shall be charged, the following,
after the words "charged as trustee of the said defendant,"
namely, "by the default of the said trustee to file his affidavit in
said cause."
Sec. 21. If any person named as the trustee of a defendant,
who shall have been charged as trustee by reason of his default.
shall make affidavit as to whether or not he hail personal property
of the defendant in his hands or possession at the time of the service
of the original writ in said action or suit upon him, and stat
ing the amount or articles, if any, so in his hands, and that he
failed to file an affidavit therein before he was charged by the
court as the trustee of the defendant, either from want of actual
notice of the service of the said writ, or by accident or mistake,
and shall give such affidavit to the officer charged with the service
of the execution (who shall annex such affidavit to his return on
such execution), or, if execution has not issued, if such person
shall file such affidavit in the court in which he has been charged
with the clerk, if there be a clerk, otherwise with the justice
thereof, and shall pay to said officer, clerk or justice, respectively,
the money paid for his attendance at the time of the service of
the original writ, and another like sum, and, in case execution has
issued, shall pay to said officer the sum stated in his affidavit to
be so in his hands, if any, or so much thereof as may be necessary
to satisfy said execution, or, if the property in his hands as dis
closed by his affidavit consists of specific articles, shall then de
liver the same to said officer, no further proceedings shall be had
therein against such trustee, except as is provided in section
nineteen of chapter two hundred fifty -four in case of a false
answer or affidavit by the person summoned as trustee, and the
officer shall pay the money paid to him by such trustee to the
plaintiff, or take such specific articles on said execution.
Section 1. Every officer to whom a writ of execution or other
judicial writ shall be lawfully issued shall execute the mandates
therein contained as commanded, and shall make returns of his
doings thereon. If he he unable to execute such mandates, he
shall set forth the reason of his failure in his return.
Sec. 2. The body of a deceased person shall not be liable to
be taken for debt or damages on execution or upon any process
whatsoever; and if any officer shall, under color of an execution
or process, seize or take the body of any deceased person for debt
or damages, he shall be fined not exceeding five hundred dollars
or be imprisoned not exceeding six months.
Sec. 3. If any officer shall, at the same time, have two or more
executions delivered to him to serve, in which the parties shall be
reversed, and shall sue and be sued in the same right and capacity,
he shall set off the debts or damages in the same and levy and
collect the balance only that shall remain due thereon, with the
costs on all said executions.
Sec. 4. Personal estate, when mortgaged and in the possession
of the mortgagor, and while the same is redeemable either at law
or in equity, may be levied on by execution against the mortgagor
in the same manner as on his unincumbered personal estate.
Sec. 5. When levied on, whether by virtue of an attachment
or otherwise, it shall be sold by the officer as in other cases of
levies on personal property on executions.
Sec. 6. The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to the pay
ment of the amount due on the mortgage, with such deduction for
interest for the anticipated payment, or allowance for damages for
such anticipated payment, as may be ascertained and allowed by
the court to which the execution is returnable, and the balance
shall be applied to the payment of the amount due on the execu
tion.
Sec. 7. In case of such levy, the plaintiff in execution may re.
, . . ., .,
deem the mortgaged property in the same manner as the mortgagor
might have done, and upon such redemption shall have the
same lien on the property for the amount paid by him, with in
terest, as the mortgagee had.
Sec. 8. If the mortgage be not redeemed by the plaintiff, or
• n t i , . .
sold as before mentioned, before the time of redemption expires,
the attachment shall become void.
Sec. 9. In all cases when execution shall be levied on any
goods or chattels, such goods and chattels shall be kept in the
possession of the officer and shall be advertised at least ten days
before they shall be exposed and offered for sale, in order that the
person who owned such goods or chattels may, if he think fit, pay
the money due, together with the costs which shall have accrued
thereon, and thereupon have his said goods or chattels restored to
him again : Provided, that if such goods and chattels shall be of
a quickly perishable nature, the officer levying execution thereon
shall immediately notify the defendant or his agent thereof, and
may obtain an order from the court or division, or any justice
thereof, issuing the execution, to sell said goods and chattels at
such time and in such manner as said court or justice may pre
scribe, and such order may be obtained at any time. Such an
order to the officer may also be obtained by either party or his
agent.
Sec. 10. In case such owner shall not redeem them as aforesaid,
and in case they be not sold under special order, the officer shall
sell the same at public auction to the highest bidder, and in any
case if any overplus shall remain after the debt or damages and
costs and charges are paid, the same shall be delivered by the
officer to the ow ner or to any person legally qualified on his be
half to receive the same.
Sec. 11. The officer charged with the service of the execution,
1x1 • 1. 1 .1
if he shall levy the same on real estate or any interest therein,
1 11 1 !•/•!• p ii ii 11.
shall set up notifications of such levy 111 three or more public
places in the town where said real estate lies, for the space of
three months after such levy and before the same shall be exposed
to sale, notifying all persons concerned of the levy and intended
sale of said estate, that the owner thereof may have an opportu
nity to redeem the same, and he shall also notify such sale by
causing an advertisement thereof to be published once a week for
the space of three weeks next before the time of such sale in
some newspaper published in the county where such estate lies,
and if no newspaper be published therein, then in some news
paper published daily in Newport or Providence.
Sec. 12. "Whenever execution shall be levied upon real estate
, il l 1
or any interest therein which was not attached on the original
., .. . ,„ , . ,
writ or wnt of mesne process, the officer shall, 111 addition to canying
out the requirements of the preceding section, leave a copy of
the execution, with his doings thereon, with the town clerk or re
corder of deeds, as the case may be, of the town in which such
real estate shall lie, and the said town clerk or recorder of deeds,
as the case may be, shall note upon such copy the exact time, as
near as may be, when the same was left with him, and shall also
enter in a book, to be kept by him for that purpose, the names of
the parties in such execution, the amount of the judgment, the
time when such copy was left with him, and the court to which
and time when such execution is returnable, and shall be entitled
to demand and receive from such officer a fee of twenty-five cents
in each case.
^EC- 13- ^e officer may for good cause, from time to time, ad-
journ the sale of the estate levied on, giving one week's notice
thereof by publication in a newspaper in the manner above pro-
vided
Sec. 14. If no person appear to redeem the said estate, the
, „ ., , _
olhcer shall sell the same, or so much thereof as shall be sufficient
to satisfy the judgment obtained and the costs and charges, at
public auction, and a deed thereof, by him given, shall vest in the
purchaser all the estate, right and interest which the debtor had
therein at the time said estate was attached, or, in case there were
no attachment, levied on as aforesaid, and the surplus of the
money that shall arise from the sale of said estate, after satisfying
the execution and the costs and charges, shall be deposited with
the general treasurer for the owner thereof and be liable to be at
tached for his other debts.
sEC- is. Such sale shall be made under the execution levied
thereon, although the return-day thereof may have passed.
gEC_ 16. The following' shall be substantially the form of the
° .....
deed to be given whenever real estate is levied upon and sold as
aforesaid, that is to say : —
TO ALL PEOPLE TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS SHALL COME,
send Greeting :
Whereas an execution against at the suit of was
by me the said on the day of levied on (here
. * - ,,
deaa'/oe the premises); and whereas on the day of all
the estate, right, title, interest and property of the said in
the premises aforesaid, were by me, the said sold at public
auction, for the satisfaction of the said execution, to , who
was the highest bidder, for the sum of which the said
hath since well and truly paid to me the said :
Now know ye, that by force and virtue of the law in such case
made and provided, I, the said in consideration of the sum
of money paid unto me as aforesaid, do by these presents bargain,
sell, assign and set over unto the said heirs and assigns
forever, all the estate, right, title, interest, property, freehold and
inheritance of the said of, in and to the said premises and
appurtenances at the time of the levy thereon. To have and to
hold the said premises and appurtenances to the said heirs
and assigns forever. In witness, <tc.
And there shall be annexed to such deed, and forming a part
thereof, a copy of such execution and the officer's return thereon,
duly certified by such officer.
Sec 17. Whenever attachment shall have been made by origi
nal writ or writ of mesne process, the officer shall insert the time
thereof and vary his deed accordingly.
Sec. 18. A certified copy of such record of execution and re
turn shall be admissible as evidence of the contents of such execu-
tion and return ; and in the event of the destruction, loss or obi
o ii
hteration of such return, amendments thereof may be allowed to
be made upon a copy of such record certified by the town clerk or
recorder of deeds, as the case may be, of the town wherein such
deed, execution or return shall have been recorded, with the same
effect as if such amendment had been made on the original return.
Sec. 19. "Whenever execution shall issue against a defendant
whose stock or shares in any banking-association or any body-
... .. iiii i i
corporate established within this state shall have been attached,
. .
the officer charged therewith shall serve a copy of the same, if a
bank, upon the cashier thereof ; if an insurance company, upon the
president or secretary thereof ; if any other corporate body within
this state, upon the treasurer thereof or person executing the
duties of treasurer ; and if any foreign corporation, upon the clerk
or agent thereof, or its attorney authorized to accept service of
process in its behalf in this state ; which shall be deemed a good
and sufficient levy of such execution upon the stock or shares of
the defendant in such company.
Sec. 20. The said stock or shares, or so much thereof as shall
be necessary, shall be advertised and sold in the same manner as
other personal property levied on by execution, and a deed or
deeds thereof given by the officer aforesaid shall vest in the pur-
chaser all the right, title and interest of the defendant in such
.
shares so sold as aforesaid, and shall be recorded by the recording
officer of such company.
Sec. 21. The stock or shares of any person whatsoever in any
banking-association or in any incorporated company within this
°. . .. . ....
state, or in any foreign corporation having an attorney in this state,
appointed by law, upon whom service of process against it can be
made according to the provisions of chapter two hundred fiftythree,
shall be liable to be levied on by execution duly obtained,
like other personal property ; and such execution being directed to
the proper officer according to law, he may levy the same, in the
manner set forth in the preceding two sections, upon any stock or
shares of the defendant to be found within his precinct, and shall
proceed to advertise and sell and give deeds thereof in the manner
therein prescribed.
Sec. 22. Whenever final judgment for any sum shall be ren
dered by any court against any banking-association or any incor
porated company, execution on such judgment shall be issued
against the goods, chattels and real estate of such corporation ; and
■whenever any such execution shall be, by the officer charged with
the service thereof, returned that he cannot find sufficient property
of such corporation whereon to levy the same, the party in whose
favor such judgment shall have been rendered ma}T sue out of the
office of the clerk of the court in which such judgment was ren
dered a writ of scire facias against the president and directors,
trustees, managers, or other like officers of such corporation, if any
such there be, and, if none, then against so many of the stock
holders or members thereof as he may think fit, returnable to such
court on a day certain in such writ to be named.
Sec. 23. On the return thereof, unless such president and di
rectors, trustees, managers, other like officers, stockholders or
members, shall make it appear that they had not, at the time of
the service of such writ of scire facias, within their possession and
control, sufficient property of such corporation to satisfy such
judgment or any part thereof, such court shall issue execution
against such president, directors, trustees, managers, or other like
officers, or stockholders or members, for the amount of such judg
ment, with interest and costs, as for their own private debt, but if
it shall appear that such officers, stockholders or members, had
property as aforesaid to satisfy part of such judgment only, then
an execution as aforesaid shall issue for such amount only and
costs.
Sec. 24. In all levies on execution upon real estate, goods and
chattels, stocks or shares, or other subject of levy on execution
whatsoever, he who shall first procure the attachment, if any, or, if
there be no attachment, he who shall first procure levy to be made,
shall be entitled to have his debt or damages satisfied before any
other demand for which the same may be subsequently attached,
or levied on by execution, at the suit of any other person; and
all others in order of their attachments or levies, as aforesaid.
Sec. 25. As divers levies of the same real or personal estate
may happen to be made on the same day, the officer who shall
make any such levy, whether of real or personal estate, shall in
his return set forth the time of the day when such levy was made,
to the end that the priority of the attaching and levying creditors
may be known.
Sec. 26. Every sheriff, deputy-sheriff, town sergeant and con
stable, charged with the service of any execution for any debt or
damages, shall levy, collect, receive and pay over interest on the
same debt or damages, from the date entered on the margin, up to
the time of its discharge by him.
Sec. 27. Whenever judgment shall be rendered against any
person holding the office of sheriff, the execiition issued thereon,
directed in the ordinary fomi, may be delivered to the sheriff or a
deputy -sheriff of some other county, who, within the county of the
defendant-sheriff, may levy on the property, subject to levy on
execution, of the defendant, as the proper sheriff of the county
might do in other cases, and proceed and sell the same according
to law.
Sec. 28. For want of goods and chattels and real estate or other
property, subject to levy on execution, such sheriff or deputy shall
take the body of the defendant-sheriff and him commit to the jail
in the county of the committing officer, whenever the writ of ex
ecution shall command him so to do.
TITLE XXYIII.
OF PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST BAIL, AND OF
IMPRISONMENT OF DEBTORS.
Chapter 258. Of proceedings by and against bail.
Chapter 259. Of imprisonment of debtors, and of jail limits and jail bonds.
Chapter 260. Of the relief of poor debtors.
Chapter 261. Of poor tort debtors.
CHAPTER 258.
OF PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST BAIL.
Section
1, 2. Power of bail to discharge him
self from liability.
8. Commitment by the court of prin
cipal when surrendered by bail.
4. Principal to remain committed,
how long.
5. When entitled to be discharged.
Section
6. Death of the principal discharges
bail, when.
7, 8. Scire facias against bail, and
judgment and execution there
on.
9. Limitation of writ of scire facias.
10. Remedy of bail against principal.
Section 1. Any person who shall become bail in any civil
action, either by giving bail-bond to the officer serving- the writ
therein or by indorsing such writ, or by giving bond to the keeper
of the jail in the county of Providence, may, during the pendency
of the action, discharge himself as bail by bringing his principal
into the court in which the action shall be pending and there
delivering him into the custody of said court.
gEC. 2. Such person may also, at any time before final judg.
1 J * /
meu* a»aillst him as bail on scire facias, discharge himself as
bail in either of the two following modes:
FtTst. By committing his principal to jail in the county in
which he became bail or in which the original writ was
returnable, paying or tendering to the creditor or his attorney
the costs, if any, which shall have accrued on a writ of scire facias
against him as bail, and leaving with the keeper of such jail a certi
fied copy of the original writ and the return of the officer thereon,
and a certified copy of the bond given to the officer serving said
writ or given to the keeper of the jail in the county of Providence,
if either of said bonds have been given, and giving to the plaintiff,
if in this state, or his agent or his attorney of record, notice in
writing of the time and place of such commitment within six days
after making the same ; or,
Second. By bringing his principal into the court where the writ
of scire facias against him as bail shall be pending before final
judgment shall be rendered thereon, paying the costs on such writ
of scire facias to the clerk, and delivering his principal into the
custody of such court.
SEC. 3. If the principal shall be surrendered by his bail to the
t , A , x ,
court in which the original action is pending, he shall be by such
court committed to jail, and there remain to be taken in execution
or to be discharged in the same manner as though committed for
want of bail in the first instance, and he shall remain in jail in like
manner if committed by his bail before final judgment be rendered
in such action.
®ECl *'ie P1""^^*! sua^ oe committed by the bail to jail
after such final judgment, or if, being surrendered by his bail to
the court before which scire facias is pending against the bail, he
shall be committed by such court to jail, he shall there remain for
the space of thirty days, unless sooner discharged by order of
law.
gEC_ 5 if the principal be not taken in execution within thirty
1 1
days after final judgment against him when committed for want
of bail or when committed by his bail or by the court to which
his bail shall have surrendered him before such final judgment, or
within thirty days after he shall have been committed by Ins bail
or by the court to which his bail shall have surrendered him, pend
ing scire facias against his bail, such principal shall be discharged
from jail upon payment of prison fees.
gECi g. The death of the principal before the return-day of the
... . .
execution against liim shall discharge the bail.
SEc. 7. "Whenever the principal shall avoid, so that his goods
*■ 1
and chattels, real estate or other property subject to levy on exe-
cution, cannot be found to satisfy the execution, nor his body be
found to be taken thereby, the plaintiff in the original writ may sue
out his writ of scire facias against the bail from the same court
wherein final judgment was rendered against the principal, re
turnable to the said court on a day certain not less than twenty
nor more than sixty days after such writ shall be served, and, in
case no legal cause be shown to the contrary, judgment Jshall be
given against the bail for the debt or damages and costs recovered
against the principal, with interest and costs, and execution shall
be awarded accordingly.
Sec. 8. The plaintiff in any suit wherein judgment shall be
rendered in any district court, and the amount of debt, costs and
.. ., i-i ii ii i,i i iiii
mterest due upon such judgment shall exceed three hundred dol-
lars, shall be entitled to his writ of scire facias against the bail
from the common pleas division of the supreme court in the county
in which such judgment shall be rendered, upon which writ the
proceedings shall be the same in all respects as if the judgment
had been rendered in said common pleas division of the supreme
court.
Sec. 9. No writ of scire facias shall be served upon the bail
unless it be within two years next after the entering up of final
judgment against the principal : Provided, that if by reason of the
absence of the bail from the state, service of the writ of scire facias
could not have been made within the time before mentioned, the
said writ may be served at any time within two years next after
the return of the bail into the state.
Sec. 10. The bail may have remedy 'by action of the case
against his principal for all damages sustained by his becoming
bail.
HOARD OF PRISONERS IN JAIL.
Section 1. Whenever any person shall be imprisoned upon
original writ, mesne process, execution, or surrender or commit
ment by bail, in any action whatsoever, the party at whose suit
such person is imprisoned shall pay to the keeper of the jail in
which he is imprisoned the sum of three dollars per week in ad
vance for the board of such prisoner, reckoning such board from
the time of such commitment ; which payment in advance shall
continue to be made by such creditor during the time such pris
oner shall be detained at his suit : Provided, ko'wever, that in case
of commitment by bail, the bail so committing him shall pay such
board in advance until twenty-four hours after notice in writing
of such commitment shall have been duly served upon the cred
itor, or his attorney of record, by the sheriff, his deputy, or some
town sergeant or constable, and lodged with the said jailer.
Sec. 2. In case of default made in payment of such prisoner's
board, as required in the preceding section, the keeper shall dis
charge such prisoner from jail, stating in his formal discharge on
the jail-book the reason therefor.
Sec. 3. The amount thus paid by the creditor for the board of
the prisoner so imprisoned at his suit, shall be added to and form
a part of the costs of commitment and detention ; and as such
costs, shall be paid by the prisoner in the then existing or any
future proceedings which may be lawfully instituted against him
for the recovery of the debt and costs of such suit.
JAIL LIMITS AND JAIL BONDS.
Sec. 4. Whenever any person shall be imprisoned for want of
bail in any civil action, or upon surrender or commitment by bail
in any such action, or for non-payment of any military fine or
state or town tax, or on execution in any civil action, except 011
executions awarded in actions on penal statutes or on bonds given
in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, or in any action of
trover, all actions of trespass on the case, any action of detinue or
trespass other than trespass quare clausum fregit, in which title to
the close was in dispute, and trespass and ejectment, or in an ac
tion prosecuted by bail against his principal, the sheriff or keeper
of the jail may grant such person a chamber or lodging in any of
the houses or apartments belonging to such jail and liberty of the
yard within the limits thereof, upon reasonable payment to be
made for chamber-room and upon bond being given by such per
son as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 5. Such person shall first leave with such sheriff or keeper
of the jail a bond to the creditor with two or more sufficient sure
ties, being inhabitants of this state, bounden jointly and severally
at least in double the sum for which he is imprisoned, with condi
tion in form following : That if the above now a prisoner
in the jail in within the county of at the suit of
shall from henceforth continue to be a true prisoner in the
custody, guard and safe keeping of keeper of the said jail,
and in the custody, guard and safe keeping of his deputy
officers and servants, or some one of them within the limits of the
said jail and keeping the said jailer advised of the place of his
usual residence and abode therein until he shall be lawfully dis
charged without committing any manner of escape or escapes
during the term of his restraint, then this obligation shall be void
or else shall remain in full force and virtue.
Sec. 6. Any person confined in any jail who shall give bond as
aforesaid may go into any building or place within the exterior
limits of the yard, complying with such bond and conforming to law.
Sec. 7. No person committed on execution shall have the
liberty of the prison yard for more than thirty days after his said
•commitment, unless he shall within the said thirty days execute
an assignment of all his estate of every kind not exempted from
attachment by law, and wherever the same may be, to such keeper
of said jail and his successor in said office, and his heirs and as
signs, in trust for the equal benefit of all his creditors in propor
tion to their demands.
Sec. 8. The keeper receiving an assignment as aforesaid shall
not be held responsible to any person for any property of any as-
signor, except such as he has actually received into his possession
: Provided, he shall assign all the interest he shall obtain
thereby to the committing creditor, if a resident of this state,
upon his request, or to such person, being a resident thereof as
such creditor shall name, to be held by such creditor or person so
named, his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, for the
purposes and uses set forth in said deed, and a record of such as
signment and of said transfers shall be made by said keeper.
Sec. 9. If any person so committed shall neglect to render
himself to the keeper of the jail, in said jail, within said thirty
days, or make an assignment as hereinbefore provided, he shall be
deemed to have committed an escape under his bond for the
liberty of the jail yard.
Sec. 10. Every person who shall become surety in any bond
! « » -, c . ■,
given by any debtor for the liberty of the mil vard as aforesaid
, , . . , ,. ...... ,
shall have a light at any time to deliver up the principal 111 such
bond to the sheriff of the county in which such debtor shall have
been committed, or to the keeper of the jail therein, and within
such jail, whereupon he shall be detained by such sheriff or keeper
in close jail, in the same manner as though he had not been liber
ated on bond, until he shall give other bond according to the pro
visions of tliis chapter, or be otherwise discharged according to
law, and none of the sureties, after the principal has been de
livered up as aforesaid, shall be liable for any escape thereafter
committed by the principal.
^EC- ^e cre(^tor sha^ obtain judgment on such bond
for the breach of the condition thereof, he shall recover his just
debt, with interest from the time judgment was rendered in the
original suit, and twelve per centum interest on such debt for his
damages, and the court shall render judgment thereon accordingly.
gEC- 12. No action shall be maintained for the breach of any
bond given for the liberty of the jail yard as aforesaid, unless the
same be brought within one year after the time such breach was
committed.
gEC 13 Every justice of a district court having no clerk, or
_ J J ^ o >
exercising the duties of clerk according to law, and every clerk of
D 0 '
any court, issuing an execution against any person shall note on
the margin thereof the cause of action on which the same issued,
to the end that the keeper of the jail may ascertain whether such
person, if committed, be entitled to the liberty of the jail yard,
and every officer committing any person to jail on such execution
shall note in his commitment the cause of action on which the
execution is founded, according to the note or memorandum of the
justice or clerk.
^ec. 1^. If no such memorandum be made by such justice or
clerk on any execution, or if the officer shall not note the same in
his commitment, the keeper of the jail shall be held harmless if he
permit the person committed to have the liberty of the jail yard,,
or discharge him, on his producing a certificate of having taken
the oath prescribed by law for poor debtors.
Sec. 15. All assignments, transfers and conveyances of property
ma^e hy a debtor during his imprisonment, for the payment
or security of any debt, except that of the committing creditor,
shall be utterly void, unless made for the benefit of all his credit
ors in proportion to their respective demands.
gEC iq if any sheriff, deputy-sheriff, town sergeant, constable
j7 > f J > ...
or keeper of any jail, shall take or receive from any prisoner in his
custody any bond, obligation, covenant, promise or assurance
whatsoever, to indemnify and save harmless the person taking the
same for the enlargement or ease of such prisoner, in any other
form or manner than is prescribed by law for taking bail on mesne
process in a civil action, or is prescribed in this chapter, every
such bond, obligation, covenant, promise or assurance whatsoever*
shall be utterly void,
gEG. 17. The limits of each county shall be the limits of the
jail yard thereof.
Section 1. Any person who shall be imprisoned for debt,
whether on original writ, mesne process or execution or for non
payment of military fine or town or state taxes, or on execution
awarded against him as defendant in any action of trespass and
ejectment or trespass quare clausula fregit, in which title to the
close was in dispute between the parties, may complain to any
justice of the supreme court or to the justice of any district court
in the county where such person shall be committed that he has
no estate, real or personal, wherewith to support himself in jail or
to pay jail charges and may request to be admitted to take the
poor debtor's oath.
Sec. 2. Such justice shall forthwith issue a citation to the cred
itor, if within this state, or if such creditor does not live within
this state, then to his agent or attorney of record within this state,
or if he has no such agent or attorney, then to such creditor with-
out the state, to appear at such time and place as the said justice
shall appoint, to show cause, if any he have, why the person com
plaining as aforesaid should not be admitted to take such oath.
Sec. 3. The citation shall be served on the creditor, his agent
or attorney as aforesaid, seven days at least before the time ap
pointed as aforesaid, by reading the same to him, or by leaving an
attested copy with some person living at his last and usual place
of abode, by the sheriff, his deputy or either of the town sergeants
or constables in the county in which such creditor, his agent or
attorney shall reside. If such creditor does not live or have any
agent or attorney within this state, such service shall be made upon
the creditor by any disinterested person.
^EC- justice of the supreme court or the justice of any
district court in the county where the prisoner is committed may
at the time and place appointed examine the return of such citation,
and if it shall appear to have been duly served, may admin-
ister the oath hereinafter prescribed to the party imprisoned as
aforesaid, if, after fully examining the prisoner under oath and
hearing the parties, the said justice shall think it proper so to do :
Provided, such applicant shall then and there first make and exe
cute a deed of assignment of all his estate of every kind and
wherever the same may be, except what is exempted from attach
ment by law, other than debts secured by bills of exchange or
negotiable promissory notes, to such keeper and his successor iii
his such office and his heirs and assigns, in trust for the benefit of
all his creditors in proportion to their respective demands.
Sec. 5. The oath to be administered in such a case shall be as
follows : I do solemnly swear (or, affirm) that I have not any
estate, real or personal, in possession, remainder or reversion over
ten dollars (or, except what is exempt from attachment by law not
herein enumerated) nor any debts secured by bills of exchange or
negotiable promissory notes, and that I have not, since the com
mencement of this suit against me or at any other time, directly or
indirectly, sold, leased or otherwise conveyed or disposed of to, or
intrusted any person or persons whomsoever with, all or any part
of the estate, real or personal, whereof I have been the lawful
owner or possessor, with any intent or design to secure the same
or to receive or to expect any profit or advantage therefrom for
myself or for anjT of my children or family or any other person,
or have caused or suffered to be done anything else whatsoever
whereby any of my creditors may be defrauded, so help me God :
(or, this affirmation I make and give upon peril of the penalty of
perjury.)
Sec. G. Such oath being administered and taken bv said pris°
J -
oner, the justice shall deliver to him a certificate thereof, under
his hand and seal, in the following form : —
' . ° .
To keeper of the jail at in the county of
I, the subscriber, authorized by the statute in such case made and
provided, do certify, that a poor prisoner confined upon
mesne process (or otherwise, as the case may he) in the prison at
aforesaid, has cansed the party at whose suit he
was so confined, to be notified according to law, of his the said
desire of being admitted to take the poor debtor's oath ;
that in my opinion the said has not any estate, either real
or personal, except what is exempt from attachment by law (or,
over ten dollars, as the case may he), and that he has not conveyed
or concealed his estate with design to secure the same to his own
use or to defraud his creditors ; and that I have, after due caution
to the said administered to him the oath (or, affirmation)
prescribed by law to be administered to poor debtors.
Witness, my hand and seal, this day of A. D.,
Jiistice of the Supreme Court, or, Justice of the District
Court of the Judicial District.
Sec. 7. Whenever any prisoner shall present such a certificate,
,
as is prescribed in the preceding section, to the keeper of the jail
in which he is imprisoned, such keeper shall forthwith discharge
him from his commitment at the suit of the creditor named therein.
Sec. 8. No person who has been admitted to take the oath
aforesaid shall be retained in jail for the prison fees or for the fees
of the justice before whom he may have taken such oath.
Sec. 9. No keeper of any jail receiving an assignment under
section four shall be held responsible to any person for any property
of any assignor, except such as he has actually received into
his possession : Prodded, he shall assign all the interest he shall
obtain thereby to the committing creditor, if a resident of this
state, on his request, or to such person, being a resident thereof,
as such creditor shall name, to be held by such creditor or person, ^
his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, for the purposes
and trusts set forth in said deed.
Sec. 10. No person who shall be committed on execution
awarded against him as plaintiff in replevin or as defendant in any
action on a penal statute or in any action of trover or detinue, or
for any malicious injury to the person, health or reputation of the
plaintiff in such siiit, or for seduction, or for any trespass, except
ing only such as are particularly named in section one, shall be
deemed to be within the meaning of the provisions of that section
or entitled to be admitted to take the oath as aforesaid.
Sec. 11. If a debtor take out a citation to his committing
creditor and have the same served and subsequently withdraw the
same, or if upon trial he shall not be admitted to take the oath
above prescribed, he shall not be entitled to another citation to
the same creditor unless on proof of some change of circum-
stances after the taking out of the first citation, a statement of
which change of circumstances shall be annexed to or recited in
the second citation and form a part thereof.
Sec- 12- Tlie court or division before which auy action is pending
for the recovery of any debt or demand for which the defend
if committed to jail thereon, would be entitled to be admitted
to take the oath aforesaid, may administer the said oath to the de
fendant as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 13. The defendant in such case may apply to any district
court in the comity in which he resides for a citation to the credij.or
appear at the court or division in which such action is pend
ing to show cause why the defendant should not be admitted to
take said oath.
Sec- u- ^xwh citation shall lie served by any sheriff, deputysheriff,
town sergeant or constable, at least four days before the
time therein appointed for taking said oath, by reading the same
to the plaintiff or by leaving an attested copy thereof with some
person living at his last and usual place of abode in this state, and
such citation shall be returned to the court or division in which
such action is pending. If the plaintiff does not reside in this
state, service of such citation may be made in like manner upon
the agent or attorney of record of the plaintiff in this state.
gEC 15 jf it shall appear to the court or division in which the
said action is pending that notice has been given as before pro
vided, such court or division shall examine the defendant on his
oath concerning his estate and effects and the disposal thereof and
may also receive any other evidence offered by the defendant or
hy the plaintiff, and upon such examination the court or division
may, in its discretion, administer to the defendant the said oath.
Sec- 16- saic^ oatl1 be administered, the execution which
'may be issued against the defendant in such action shall run
against the goods and chattels or real estate of the defendant and
not ag-ainst his body.
RELIEF OK DEBTORS LIAliLE TO IMPRISONMENT.
^EC. 17. Every defendant in any execution, who would, if com-
mitted to jail thereon, and every person against whom final judgment
has been rendered in any civil action, who would, if commit
ted to jail on execution to be issued thereon, be entitled to be ad
mitted to take the oath aforesaid, may apply in the manner here
inbefore mentioned for a citation to his creditor to show cause
why he should not be admitted to take said oath.
gEc. ig. Such citation shall be served in the same manner as is
provided in section fourteen of this chapter.
Sec. 19. Upon the return of such citation, the magistrate au
thorized to administer said oath by section four of this chapter, in
the county in which such defendant is liable to be imprisoned, may
administer such oath to the defendant, if upon examination of the
defendant on oath, and of such other evidence as either party may
produce, he shall think proper.
Sec. 20. If the defendant be admitted to take such oath, he
shall thereafter be exempt from imprisonment on said execution
or any future execution that may be issued on such judgment, and
■execution on such judgment shall issue only against the goods and
chattels and real estate of the said defendant.
Sec. 21. The justice administering the oath aforesaid, pursuant
to the provisions of section nineteen of this chapter, shall give a
certificate to that effect, under his hand and seal, to the said de
fendant. In all cases the justice who commences the examination
under the provisions of this chapter shall alone have the power to
sign and seal the certificate of discharge.
Sec. 22. Whenever the oath aforesaid shall be administered to
any defendant, under the provisions of the preceding ten sections,
he shall then and there make an assignment of all his estate, real
and personal, not exempted from attachment by law, to some re
sponsible inhabitant of this state, his heirs and assigns, to be ap
proved by the magistrate administering said oath, in trust for the
benefit of all his creditors in proportion to their demands, and a
copy of such assignment shall be filed by the assignee in the office
of the clerk of the court issuing such execution.
Sec. 23. The person to whom the debt appears, by the process,
to belong at the time complaint is made, shall be deemed the
creditor within the meaning of the provisions of this chapter.
Neither the commitment of the prisoner, nor his discharge, shall
be a satisfaction of the debt for which he was committed. If com
mitted on execution, the plaintiff may take out another execution,
which shall not, however, run against the body of the defendant.
If suit be brought on the judgment, execution in such suit shall
not run against the body of the defendant, nor shall the defend
ant be held to bail on the writ in such case. If the defendant be
committed on mesne process, when he receives a certificate as
aforesaid, if that fact be shown by plea to the court or division
before which the action is pending, then execution shall not issue
against the body of the defendant, but in all such cases execution
shall issue against the goods and chattels and real estate of such
defendant.
Sec. 24. Any justice of the supreme court or the justice of any
district court or justice of the peace in the same county, who shall
be present at the time and place to which any citation in behalf of
any poor prisoner, issued under the provisions of this chapter,
shall be duly returned, may, in the absence of another magistrate,
adjourn the hearing thereon to any other time or place, as he may
think proper, with the same effect as if another justice were
present.
Sec. 25. Every person imprisoned or liable to be imprisoned
in any siut in favor of the state, entitled to the oath prescribed in
section five of this chapter, may apply for ami have a citation to
the state, to show cause why he should not be admitted to take
such oath.
Sec- 26- Such citation shall be issued to and served upon the
attorney-general, in the same manner and with the same effect as
is provided in the case of creditors other than the state, except
that no board need be demanded or paid.
CHAPTER 261.
OF POOR TORT DEBTORS.
Section
1. Person imprisoned in action on
penal statute, or notion arising
in tort, etc., may have cita
tion.
2. Citation, when and to whom is
sued.
3. Citation, form of, and how served.
Section
Poor tort debtor may petition for
relief as a poor debtor, when.
Citation to committing creditor;
hearing on petition; oath and
certificate.
Petitioner to pay costs of service
of process.
Section 1. Any person who shall be imprisoned upon an origi
nal writ, mesne process, execution or upon surrender or commit
ment by bail in any action for breach of promise of marriage, on a
penal statute, or in any action of trover, replevin, detinue, deceit,
trespass, trespass and ejectment or trespass quare clausum fregit,
in which the title to the close was not in dispute between the
parties, or in any action of the case for libel or for words spoken
or for any action otherwise arising in tort, and who shall complain
on oath to the keeper of the jail in which he is imprisoned that he
has no estate, real or personal, wherewith to support himself in
jail or to pay jail charges, shall be entitled to a citation as herein
after provided.
Sec. 2. If such keeper shall believe such complaint to be true,
he shall forthwith issue a citation under his hand and seal to the
plaintiff at whose suit the complainant is imprisoned if the plain
tiff resides in this state, or if he does not reside in this state then
to his agent or attorney of record, or if he have no agent or at
torney of record then to the person who indorsed the plaintiff's
writ as surety. Whenever the plaintiff at whose suit the eoinplainant
is or may be imprisoned shall lie dead and there shall he
no administrator on his estate, nor any executor of the last will
and testament of such deceased plaintiff resident in this state and
qualified to act, the citation shall be directed to the last attorney
of record appearing in said suit.
Sec. 3. Such citation shall set forth that such prisoner has
made complaint as aforesaid, and such keeper upon issuing the
citation shall, at the expense of the state, cause service thereof to
be made by the sheriff, his deputy or any town sergeant or con-
stable, on the person to whom such citation shall be directed as
aforesaid, by reading the same to him in his presence and hearing,
or by leaving a true and attested copy thereof with some person
living at his last and usual place of abode.
Sec. 4. Whenever any person shall have been imprisoned for
six months upon original writ, mesne process, execution or upon
surrender or commitment by bail in any action brought since the
twentieth day of April, one thousand eight hundred seventy-six,
on any penal statute, action of trover, replevin, trespass, trespass
and ejectment or trespass quare clausum fregit, in which the title
to the close is not in dispute, or other civil action in which such
person is not now entitled to his discharge, upon being admitted
to take the poor debtor's oath, such person so imprisoned may
petition any justice of the common pleas division of the supreme
court, setting forth that he is detained in prison, the term of his
imprisonment, the cause of his committal and the name and resi
dence of the person at whose suit he was committed, and that he
is unable to pay the judgment upon which he is committed and to
pay his prison charges : Provided, however, that any person who
shall have been imprisoned as aforesaid upon a writ issued out of
a district court or upon execution wherein the debt or damages
and costs shall not exceed three hundred dollars, may petition as
aforesaid after ninety days of imprisonment.
Sec. 5. Upon the receipt of any petition of any poor tort
debtor under the provisions of the preceding section, the justice
1 1 .
to whom the same shall be addressed shall fix a time and place for
the hearing of such petition and shall cause a citation to be issued
by the clerk of the common pleas division of the supreme court
for the county where such person shall be imprisoned, directed to
the committing creditor or to his attorney of record in said suit,
or, if the committing creditor be deceased, to the legal representa
tive of such deceased creditor, which citation shall be served upon
one of the persons to whom it is directed at least six days before
the return-day thereof, and upon the return of such citation duly
served at the time and place named therein some justice of the
common pleas division of the supreme court shall cause the peti
tioner to be brought before him upon habeas corpus, and either
then or at such other time as said justice shall appoint, shall pro
ceed to examine the petitioner and to hear the evidence which
may be properly adduced in favor of and against the granting of
the prayer of said petition, and if it shall lie made to appear that
the petitioner has no property, rights or credits, with which to pay
prison charges, or which is not exempt by law from attachment,
and that the debtor has made an assignment to the jailer in the
manner prescribed in the preceding chapter, if said justice shall
be of the opinion that such petitioner can truly take the oath pre
scribed in section five of the preceding' chapter, said justice may
admisister to such petitioner said oath, and the like certificate
shall be issued thereof, and the certificate shall have the like effect
in all respects with reference to the discharge of the petitioner
from jail, and the issue of execution, or of alias or pluries execu
tion, upon the judgment shall be in the form and with the like
effect, as if the said petitioner had been entitled to and admitted
to take the poor debtor's oath, under the provisions of the preced
ing chapter.
SEC- (\_ The cost of the service of citation and the writ of
habeas corpus issued under the provisions of this chapter shall lie
paid by the petitioner for relief hereunder.
Section 1. Every person imprisoned in any common jail or
t » i • in i
otherwise restrained of Ins liberty by any officer or other person,
except in cases mentioned in the following sections, may prosecute
a writ of habeas corpus, according to the provisions of this chap
ter, to obtain relief from such imprisonment or restraint, if it shall
prove to be unlawful.
Sec. 2. The following persons, confined in any jail, shall not be
entitled, as of right, to demand and prosecute said writ :—
First. Persons convicted of treason against this state, murder,
rape, robbery, arson, burglary, or as accessories before the fact in
either of those crimes, or committed on suspicion of being guilty
of either of those crimes, or as accessories thereto before the fact,
when the cause is plainly and specifically expressed in the warrant
of commitment.
Second. Persons convicted, or in execution upon legal process,
civil or criminal.
Third. Persons committed on mesne process in any civil action
on which they were liable to be arrested and imprisoned, unless
when excessive and unreasonable bail is required.
Sec. 3. Application for such a writ shall be made to the appel-
, . , , i . .
late division of the supreme court, wherever sitting, or to any
, . . . . . , , ,
justice of said division, by complaint in writing, signed by the
party for whose relief it is intended, or by some person in his be
half, setting forth : —
First. The person by whom and the place where the party is
imprisoned or restrained, naming the prisoner and the person de
taining him, if their names are known, and describing them if they
are not known.
Second. The cause or pretence of such imprisonment or re
straint, according to the knowledge and belief of the person apply
ing. If the imprisonment or restraint is by virtue of any warrant
or other process, a copy thereof shall be annexed, or it shall be
made to appear that a copy thereof has been demanded and re
fused, or that for some sufficient reason a demand of such copy
could not be made. The facts set forth in the complaint shall be
verified by the oath of the person making the application or by
that of some other credible witness, which oath may be adminis
tered by the court or justice to whom the application is made or
by any justice of the peace or notary public.
Sec. i. The court or justice to whom such complaint shall be
made shall without delay award and issue a writ of habeas corpus ;
if against any sheriff or deputy-sheriff of this state, or against the
keeper of any jail or prison in this state, or against any marshal or
deputy-marshal of the United States, it shall be substantially in
the following form : —
THE STATE OK RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATION S.
(seal) sc. To Greeting:
We command you, that the body of of in our
prison, in your custody (or, by you imprisoned or restrained of his
liberty, as the cane may he), as it is said, together with the day and
cause of his taking and detaining by whatsoever name the said
shall be called or charged, yrou have before the appellate
division of our supreme court, holden at within and for the
county of (or, some justice thereof, as the case may be), im
mediately after the receipt of this writ, to do and receive what our
said court (or, justice thereof, as the case may be), shall then and
there consider concerning him in this behalf, and have there this
writ.
Witness, Esq., at this day of in the
year . Clerk.
And if not against such officer, it shall be substantially in the
following form : —
THE STATE OF KIIODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
(seal) sc. To the sheriffs of our several counties and their
deputies, Greeting :
We command you, that the body of of by
of imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, as it is said, you
take and have before the appellate division of our supreme court,
holden at within and for the county of (or, some justice
thereof, as the case may be), immediately after the receipt of this
writ, to do and receive whatever said court (or, some justice thereof•
as the case may be), shall then consider concerning him in this be
half, and summon the said then and there to appear before
our said court (or, some justice thereof, as the case may be), to show
the cause of the taking and detaining of the said and have
you there this writ with your doings thereon.
Witness, at this day of in the year
Clerk.
Sec. 5. When the writ is issued by the appellate division of the
supreme court in session, it shall be signed by the clerk and tested
like other writs in this state ; when issued by a justice it shall be
signed by him.
Sec. 6. If the court to which the writ is returnable shall be adjourned
before its return, the return shall be made before any one
of the justices of said court. If issued by a single justice, and the
court shall be in session before its return, he shall adjourn the
case into court, to be there heard and determined in like manner
as if it had been returned into the court.
Sec. 7. Any person to whom the writ is directed shall receive
it, and upon payment or tender of charges, if any be demandable
for the execution of it, he shall make due return thereof.
Sec. 8. If the writ be directed to any sheriff, deputy -sheriff,
keeper of any jail, marshal or deputy-marshal, as herein provided,
such officer shall state in his return thereon : —
First. Whether he has or has not the party in his custody or
power or under restraint.
Second. If he has the party in his custody or power or under
restraint, he shall set forth at large the authority, and the true and
whole cause of such imprisonment or restraint, with a copy of the
writ, warrant or other process, if any, upon which the party is de
tained; and
Third. If he has had the party in his custody or power or under
restraint, aud has transferred such custody or restraint to another,
he shall state particularly to whom, at what time, for what cause,
and by what authority such transfer was made.
If the writ be directed to no such officer, the person summoned
shall state the same particulars in writing to the court or justice
before whom the writ is returnable.
Sec. !). The return or statement shall be signed by the person
making it, and it shall also be sworn to by him, unless ho be a
sworn public officer and shall make the return in his official
capacity.
Sec. 10. The person who makes the return or statement shall
1 ...
at the same time bring the body of the party, if in his custody or
power or under his restraint, according to the command of the
writ, unless prevented by the sickness or infirmity of the party.
gEC. H, Whenever, from the sickness or infirmity of the party,
. ' -it
he cannot, without danger, be brought to the place appointed for
the return of the writ, that fact shall be stated in the return, and
if it be proved to the satisfaction of the court or justice, the said
court or either justice thereof may proceed to the jail or other
place where the party is confined and there make the examination,
or may adjourn the same to another time or may make such other
order in the case as law and justice shall require.
Sec. 12. "When the writ of habeas corpus is returned, the court
, 1 '
or justice shall, without delay, proceed to examine the causes of
the imprisonment or restraint, but the examination may be ad
journed from time to time, as circumstances may require.
Sec- 13- Whenever it appears, from the return of the writ, or
otherwise, that the party is detained on any process under which
any other person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment
or restraint, the party shall not be discharged until sufficient
notice shall have been given to such other person or his attorney,
if within the state or within thirty miles of the place of examina
tion, to appear and object to such discharge, if he think fit, which
notice shall be given by the party imprisoned, in the manner pre
scribed by the court or justice, or, in default thereof, he shall be
remanded to the custody of the person against whom the writ of
habeas corpus issued,
SE(\ 14. Whenever it appears from the return of the writ, or
. ...
otherwise, that the party is imprisoned on any criminal accusation,
he shall not be discharged until sufficient notice shall have l>een
given to the attorney-general, or to the complainant in the matter,
that he may appear and object to the discharge, if he think fit,
which notice shall be given by the party imprisoned, in the man
ner prescribed by the court or justice, or, in default thereof, he
shall be remanded to the custody of the person against whom the
writ of habeas corpus issued,
Hec. 15. The party imprisoned or restrained may deny any of
:t » i • i
the facts set forth in the return or statement, and may allege any
. . *
other facts that may be material m the case, and the court or
justice shall proceed in a summary way, to examine the causes of
imprisonment or restraint and to hear the evidence that may be
produced by any person interested and authorized to appear, both
in support of such imprisonment or restraint and against it, and
thereupon to dispose of the party as law and justice shall require.
gEc. 1G. If no legal cause can be shown for the imprisonment or
• • i n t i i if_
restraint, the court or justice shall discharge the party therefrom,
Sec. 17. If the party is detained for any cause or offence for
which he is bailable of right, he shall be admitted to bail if suffi
cient bail be offered, and if not, he shall be remanded with an
order of the court or justice expressing the sum in which he shall
be held to bail, and the court at which he shall be required to ap
pear, and any justice of the peace authorized thereto may, at any
time before the sitting of said court, bail the party pursuant to
such order.
Sec. 18. If the party is committed on mesne process in any
L «* A "
civil action for want of bail, and if it shall appear that the sum for
which bail is required is excessive and unreasonable, the court or
justice shall decide what bail is reasonable and shall order that on
giving1 such bail the party shall be discharged.
Sec. 19. If the party is lawfully imprisoned or restrained and
is not entitled to be enlarged on giving bail he shall be remanded
to the person from whose custody he was taken or to such other
person or officer as by law is authorized to detain him.
Sec. 20. Until judgment be given the court or justice may re.
.. . . , , ,
mand the party or may bail him to appear from day to day, or may
commit him to the sheriff of the county or place him under such
other care and custody as the circumstances of the case may
require.
Sec. 21. Every officer who shall refuse or neglect, for six hours,
J o j >
to deliver a true copy of the warrant or process by which he detains
any prisoner to any person who shall demand such copy and
tender the fees therefor, shall forfeit and pay to such prisoner the
sum of one hundred dollars.
Sec. 22. If any person to whom such writ of habeas corpus
shall be directed shall refuse to receive the same or shall neglect
to obey and execute it according to the provisions of this chapter
and no sufficient excuse shall be shown for such refusal or neglect,
the court or justice before whom the writ is returnable shall pro
ceed forthwith, by process of attachment as for a contempt, to
compel obedience to the writ and to punish the person guilty of
the contempt.
Sec. 23. If such attachment shall be issued against a sheriff or
. °
his deputy, it may be directed to any town sergeant or to any
other person, to be designated therein, who shall have full power
to execute the same, and if the sheriff or deputy should be com
mitted upon such process, he may be committed to the jail of any
other county than his own.
Sec. 24. Upon such refusal or neglect of the person to whom
1 6 1
the writ of habeas corpus is directed, the court or justice may also
issue a precept to any officer or other person designated therein,
commanding him to bring forthwith before such court or justice
the person for whose benefit the writ of habeas corpus was issued,
and the prisoner shall lie thereupon discharged, bailed or re
manded, in like manner as if he had been brought in upon the
writ of habeas corpus.
Sec. 25. Every person guilty of such refusal or neglect to re-,
■ 'ifl-ii in p
ceive and execute a writ of habeas corpus shall moreover forfeit
and pay to the party aggrieved thereby, one thousand dollars.
Sec. 26. Every person who shall have in custody or under his
-i e i i i .i
power any person entitled to any writ of habeas corpus whether
any writ has issued or not, and who shall, with intent to elude the
service of such writ or to avoid the effect thereof, transfer such
prisoner to the custody, or place him under the power or control
of any other person, or conceal him, or change the place of his
confinement, shall forfeit and pay to the party aggrieved therein*,
one thousand dollars.
Sec. 27. The recovery of any penalty imposed by this chapter
shall not bar any action at the common law for false imprison
ment, or for false return to the writ of habeas corpus, or for any
other injury or damage sustained by the aggrieved party.
Sec- 28- No person who has been discharged upon a writ of
habeas corpus shall be again imprisoned or restrained for the
same cause, unless he shall be indicted therefor or convicted
thereof, or committed, for want of bail, by some court of record
having jurisdiction of the cause, or unless after a discharge for
defect of proof or for some material defect in the commitment, iu
a criminal case, he shall he again arrested, on sufficient proof, and
committed, by legal process, for the same offence.
Sec- 29- Nothing contained in this chapter shall be so eonsti*ued
as to restrain the power of the appellate division of the su
preme court, or any one of the justices thereof, to issue a writ of
habeas corpus at their discretion, and thereupon to bail any per
son for whatsoever cause he may be committed or restrained, or to
discharge him, as law and justice shall require.
gEC- 30. Whenever any person is committed to jail on any
, . .
criminal accusation for want of bail, any justice of the appellate
division of the supreme court, or any justice of the peace of the
same county specially appointed by said appellate division or by
either justice thereof, may admit him to bail in like manner as
might have been done by the court or magistrate who committed
him, and the said justices respectively shall have power to issue a
writ of habeas corpus and to cause such prisoner to be brought
before them, whenever it shall be necessary for the purpose ex
pressed in this section.
gEC. 31. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be so con.
. . .
strued as to restrain the power of any court to issue a writ of
habeas corpus, whene' er necessary to bring before them any pris
oner for trial, in any criminal case lawfully pending in the same
court, or to bring in any prisoner to be examined as a witness in
any suit or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending in such court,
whenever they shall think the personal attendance and examina
tion of the witness necessary for the attainment of justice.
Section 1. The title to any office, to determine which the writ
- ill-
of quo warranto lies at the common law, may be brought in question
by petition in equity.
Sec. 2. In any proceeding upon writ of quo warranto, or by
. . .. , ..... .. - ,
lnformation or by petition in equity in the nature of quo warranto,
the court may determine the title of the relator or petitioner as
well as that of the respondent ; and in any such proceeding, all or
any persons claiming the same office by whatever title, or claiming
different offices depending upon the same election or appointment,
may be made parties, and their respective rights may be ascer
tained and determined ; and the court may consolidate for the pur
poses of hearing and adjudication all such proceedings if brought
separately.
Sec. 3. In all such proceedings the court shall enforce its judgment
by appropriate process ; and whenever it shall find that no
election was made, it may order a new election in all cases where
new elections are required by law to be held upon failure to elect
in the first instance.
Section 1. The widow of any person dying intestate or other
wise shall be endowed of one full and equal third part of all the
lands, tenements and hereditaments, whereof her husband, or any
other to his use, was seized of an estate of inheritance, at any time
during- the intermarriage, to which she shall not have relinquished
her right of dower by deed, except in the cases provided for in
section twenty-eight of this chapter.
Sec. 2. Of inheritances that are entire, where no division can
be made by metes and bounds, so that a woman can lie endowed
of the thing itself, and of woodlands, she shall be endowed in a
special and certain manner, as of a third part of the rents, issues,
growth or profits thereof to be computed and ascertained in the
manner by this chapter directed.
Sec. 3. Where dower is legally demaudable in more than one
lot or parcel of land belonging to the same person, such assign
ment need not be of a part of each lot or parcel, but may be to
gether in one lot, as the interest and convenience of the 'widow
and the heir or person having the next immediate estate of free
hold shall require.
Sec. 4. The heir or person having the next immediate estate of
freehold in all or any of the lands, tenements or hereditaments
which belonged to the deceased during the intermarriage, whereof
the widow is dowable, may, in writing and under his hand, assign
and set off to such widow her dower or just third part of and in
all such lands, tenements and hereditaments, according to the pro
visions of this chapter, at any time after the decease of the
husband.
Sec. 5. The tenant in possession, though having but a term for
years, first giving notice to the owner or owners of the next estate
of freehold or inheritance, and inviting them to join with him, if
they will, in assigning and setting off dower, may upon demand
of the widow upon him and them, assign and set off dower as afore
said, and the same, if fairly and honestly done, shall bind his land
lord or co-tenants of the freehold and all others.
Sec. 6. Until such dower be assigned, or until she elect to re........
.. . ,
ceive her jointure in lieu of dower, any widow may remain and
continue in the mansion-house and the messuage thereto belong
ing, without being chargeable to pay the heir any rent for the
same, provided she bring her writ of dower within twelve months
after the probate of the will or the granting of letters of adminis
tration on the estate of her husband.
Sec. 7. If after one month's demand, made by the widow, of
' i ii i
the persons empowered to set off dower, the same shall not be set
~. , - it iii ii t • i • i
off to her in all the lands, tenements and hereditaments in which
they are empowered to set off the same, or the dower assigned and
set off shall be less in value than the widow is entitled to, or shall
be assigned and set off in a manner inconsistent with the provisions
and true intent of this chapter, such widow may sue for and recover
her dower and damages for the detention of the same by writ of
dower, to be brought either against the tenant in possession or the
tenant or tenants of the estate of freehold subsisting at the time
of the demand.
Sec. 8. The leaving of the demand with the tenant or person
,,i #i-ii -i ii
in possession of the premises out of winch dower is demanded, or,
if no person be in possession, the posting up of the same in any
conspicuous place upon the premises, shall be sufficient service of
the demand upon all persons not within the state at the time of
such demand.
Sec. 9. Whenever judgment for dower shall be rendered by
i t • • t • t
the common pleas division of the supreme court in favor of a
1 , -ii , ,
plaintiff in an action of dower, the said judgment shall set forth
the manner in which the plaintiff shall be endowed.
Sec. 10. Any party aggrieved by any direction or ruling of the
common pleas division of the supreme court, or by the decision of
said division or verdict of the jury, if any, on which the judgment
mentioned in the preceding section may be entered, may prefer
his petition to the appellate division of the supreme court for a new
trial, in the manner prescribed in section five and following sec
tions of chapter two hundred fifty-one ; but if no such petition shall
be preferred, said judgment shall be final and shall annul the
dower before that time set off and assigned to the plaintiff in the
case, if any had been set off and assigned.
Sec. 11. Whenever final judgment for dower shall be rendered
in any action of dower, in favor of the plaintiff, the court render-
nig the same shall appoint three disinterested commissioners, who
shall be under oath, to be administered by said court or by any
justice of the peace or notary public, equally and impartially to
set forth by metes and bounds, or to ascertain in the special man
ner pointed out in such judgment, the dower of the plaintiff, and
also the damages sustained by the plaintiff by detention thereof
after demand therefor.
Sec. 12. Such commissioners shall appoint time and place to
meet the parties in the said action and give them notice thereof,
and at such time and place, notwithstanding the absence of either
or both of said parties, and unless good cause is shown, proceed to
discharge their duties, and make report of the same under their
hands with a plat of the premises and of the dower set off, if
set off by metes and bounds, as soon as may be, to the court ap
pointing them.
Sec. 13. No sufficient cause to the contrary being shown, such
court shall confirm such report, and enter up judgment according
to the same, and issue a writ of execution for such damages, and
to put the plaintiff in possession of her dower or perception of
rents and profits, as the case may require.
Sec. 14. Such execution shall not be issued until after the
plaintiff produces to the court, or clerk, if the court be adjourned,
a certificate that the judgment of such court, confirming such re
port, has been duly recorded in the office of the town clerk of the
town in which the premises lie, the expense of which shall make
part of the costs in the action of dower.
Sec. 15. No action of dower shall abate by the death of the
defendant named therein, where the defendant is tenant of the
freehold, if the property passes by devise or descent from him ;
but such death being suggested, the heir or devisee shall be sum
moned to appear within a certain time, to be prescribed in the dis
cretion of the court in which the action is pending, and take upon
him the defence of the suit, and the suit shall proceed against him
in the same manner its if he had been the original defendant.
Sec. 16. Whenever a widow shall be entitled to dower in several
parcels of land, whether the fee of the same be in the heir at law,
devisee, grantee, or a subsequent holder, she may bring a suit in
equity against all of the persons owning the said lands ; or any
owner of a parcel thereof may bring a suit in equity against her
and the other owners of the said several parcels of land ; and in
any such suit, whether broiight by the widow or by an owner of the
fee, the court, according to the course of equity in marshaling in
cumbrances, may cause the dower of such widow in all of the said
parcels to be assigned in one parcel or in contiguous parcels out of
the lands of the heirs at law or devisee of such deceased husband,
or otherwise, according to equity; and in any such suit may award
to such widow damages, if she be entitled thereto, for the deten
tion of her dower.
Sec. 17. "Whenever any damages shall be awarded against any
tenant from year to year for the detention of dower, such damages,
if paid by the tenant, may be set off against anjT unpaid rent, or
may be recovered by him of the landlord, and be a lien upon the
interest of snch landlord in the lands for the detention of dower
out of which such damages were awarded.
Sec. 18. In all actions at law, or suits in equity, to recover
dower, the court, taking into consideration the situation of the
parties in interest and the situation of the estate out of which
dower is to be assigned, may set out such dower by metes and
bounds, or may substitute therefor a fixed rental to be paid at
stated periods and to remain a fixed charge upon the estate out of
which the dower is assignable ; and for cause shown, after any in
terval of five years from the last appraisal, in case of the altered
condition of the annual rental value of the said estate, the court
may cause a re-appraisal of such rental, which re-appraisal, if no
sufficient cause be shown to the contrary, shall be confirmed by
the court, and shall thereafter be and remain a charge upon the
estate and be paid to the widow instead of the amount awarded in
the first instance. And whenever dower has been set out, or a
fixed rental substituted as aforesaid, or when said widow shall be
entitled by decree of court to her perception of rents and profits,
said court may, in lieu thereof, on application of the owner of said
estate in fee, and after notice to said widow, authorize said owner
to give security, satisfactory to said court, to said widow, for the
payment of the annual value of said dower so set off, or of the
rental substituted as aforesaid or payable by the terms of said
decree, and upon depositing said security with the clerk of said
court, said owner shall be forthwith entitled to the full possession
of said estate, relieved of any charge or lien on account of said
dower-right, except such as may be made by nature of said
security, as against said widow and all persons claiming to hold
the same by, through or under her ; and all persons thereafterwards
withholding such possession or any part thereof from such
owner, shall be held, considered and dealt with as tenants who
hold and occupy tenements or estates by wrongful detainer, or as
tenants at will or by sufferance. And for the purposes of partition,
said widow shall, before such possession shall be obtained by said
owner as aforesaid, be held and considered as a tenant in common,
who now is or hereafter may be actually seised or possessed of an
estate for life or years in said premises or in a part thereof in her
own right.
Sec. 19. The court to whom commissioners to assign dower
shall have made report may recommit such report to the same
commission, or may discharge the first commissioners and appoint
others in their places ; and may allow any amendment of any of
the proceedings for the assignment of dower in any stage of the
action or suit.
Sec. 20. Whenever the lands, tenements or hereditaments in
which dower is claimed are situate in two or more counties in the
state, the suit for dower, whether at law or in equity, may be
brought in either county where any <>f the lands, tenements or
hereditaments are situate : Provided, that suits for dower in
equity, relating to lands, tenements and hereditaments in Kent
and Bristol counties, shall be brought in the appellate division of
the supreme court in Providence.
Sec- 2L An>' c<rart ot probate in this state which shall have
granted letters of administration or letters testamentary on the
estate of any deceased person may, upon the application of the
widow of the deceased, cause the dower of such widow to be as
signed and set off to her in all or any of the lands, tenements or
hereditaments lying within the state which belonged to the de
ceased during his intermarriage, whereof such widow is dowable.
Notice of such application sliall be given to all parties interested,
except the applicant, in the manner prescribed by law for notices
by courts of probate: Provided, however, that all the heirs at law
or devisees having the next immediate estate of freehold and all
parties interested in all or any of said lands, tenements or hered
itaments may join in such application, in which case no notice
thereof need be given.
Sec- 22. Whenever a widow shall be entitled to dower out of
any real estate, the owner of the fee in said estate may apply to
the court of probate of the town having jurisdiction of the settle
ment of the estate of the deceased husband of such widow, to
have her dower assigned out of such estate. Upon the presenta
tion of any such application, the court of probate shall appoint a
time and place for the consideration thereof, and shall issue a
notice to the widow to appear at such time and place, if she sees
fit, to be heard in reference thereto, which notice shall be served
upon such widow at least fourteen days before the time assigned
for the consideration of the application ; and at the time and place
assigned, or at any adjournment therefrom, said court may hear
the same ; and if it shall be made to appear that such application
is just, the same may be granted, and three discreet and disin
terested men shall be appointed to assign to the said widow her
dower in the described premises ; which said three men shall be
duly sworn to faithfully and impartially discharge the duty as
signed them, and after giving at least three days notice to the
parties in interest, shall proceed to view the premises and to set
off to the widow her dower therein, and shall return to the pro
bate court from which they received their appointment their
doings, with a plat of the said premises ; and the court of probate,
if no cause be shown to the contrary, shall enter judgment thereon,
which, if not appealed from, shall be conclusive between the
parties and those who may claim under them.
gEc. 23. "Whenever such an application shall be made to such
1 1
court of probate, such court, upon hearing the parties thereto,
shall, in the first instance, decree in what manner the dower ought
' ' ....... ,
to be assigned in the premises described in the application, whether
by metes anil bounds or in some special and certain manner as set
forth in section two of this chapter, and any person aggrieved by
such decree may appeal therefrom to the common pleas division
of tbe supreme court to be holden in the same county, proceeding
according to the provisions of chapter two hundred forty-eight
with reference to appeals from probate courts to the common pleas
division of the supreme court ; but if no appeal be made within
the time prescribed by law, or if the parties waive their right to
appeal in writing within that time, then such decree shall be final.
Sec. 24. XTpon the rendering of a final decree on such applica1
...
tion, prescribing the manner in which the dower shall be assigned,
the court rendering the same shall appoint three disinterested
men, who shall have and exercise the same duties and powers and
in the same maimer and under the same restrictions as though
they were appointed to set off dower in an action of dower, ac
cording to the provisions of this chapter, and their report being
made to such court, like proceedings shall be had thereon, and
with like effect, as in actions of dower.
Sec. 25. No damages for detention of dower shall be allowed
°
on such application, but an appeal may be had from the decree of
« t /v, , . _ nil
a court of probate affirming any report to said court made by the
men appointed to set off' dower upon such application, and like
proceedings shall be had thereon as is provided in sections eleven,
twelve, thirteen and fourteen of this chapter.
Sec. 26. In case any infant is interested in any lands, tene.
,.. 11*111 ii_ i i
inents or hereditaments which belonged to any deceased person
whereof his widow is dowable, the application to the court of pro
bate to cause the dower of such widow therein to be assigned and
set off to her, and the waiver of the right of appeal and all other
necessary acts, may be made, signed and done in behalf of such
infant by his guardian duly appointed, whose acts in the premises
shall be conclusive on such infant: Provided, that when such
widow is herself the guardian of such infant, such court of probate
shall, and in all other cases where in their discretion they may
deem it advisable, such court may, upon receiving such applicacation,
appoint a guardian ad litem for such infant, whose acts
alone in the premises, in all subsequent proceedings, shall be con
clusive on such infant.
Sec. 27. No woman who shall be endowed of any lands, tene,
,.. , - • i i ii -j. «■
ments or hereditaments as aloresaid, shall commit or suffer any
strip or waste thereon, upon penalty of forfeiting the whole of
that part of the estate upon which such strip or waste shall be
made, and the damages assessed for waste, to him who has the im
mediate estate of freehold or inheritance, remainder or reversion,
l>y an action of waste to be brought therefor, and all tenants in
dower shall maintain the houses and tenements, with the fences
and appurtenances whereof they may be endowed, in good repair
•during the term, and shall leave them so at the expiration thereof.
^EC- ^ ilIlv estate, real or personal, be conveyed by deed,
or *ne sanie ue devised °r bequeathed, for the jointure of the wife
^u ^eu °^ ^t,r "-ower> *° take effect bi her own possession inimediately
on the death of her husband and to continue during her
life or in fee, determinable by such acts only as would forfeit her
dower at the common law, such conveyance shall bar her dower
of the residue of the lands, tenements and hereditaments which
her said husband at any time possessed ; but if the said convey
ance was before marriage and during the infancy of the woman,
or after marriage, in either case the widow may, at her election,
waive such jointure and demand her dower, provided the same be
done in writing within twelve months after the probate of the will,
if there be one, and if not, then within twelve months after the
granting of letters of administration on the estate of her deceased
husband.
Sec. 29. Whenever any conveyance or devise intended to be in
< liii -i -i* * -t
Wexx of dower shall, through any defect, fail to be a legal bar
thereto and the widow, availing herself of such defect, shall de
mand her dower, the estate so conveyed with intention to bar her
dower shall thereupon cease and determine,
^Ec- ^ ^dow be lawfully expelled or evicted from her
jointure or any part thereof, without any fraud or covin, by lawful
entry or action, she shall be endowed of so much of the residue of
the lands, tenements and hereditaments of her husband whereof
she was dowable, as the same lauds, tenements and hereditaments,
wherefrom she was so evicted and expelled, shall amount and ex
tend to.
Sec- 31- Widows may bequeath the crops as well of their dower
as °* °*ner hinds and tenements, and if any widow shall erect any
building or other structure upon her dower land, or any fence on
or around the same, her executors or administrators may enter
thereon and remove the same, doing as little damage as may be to
the freehold, at any time within six months after the death of such
widow.
Section 1. In actions of ejectment or other actions concernins'
J , ^
any estate holden or claimed in coparcenary, common or joint
tenancy, where the possession of such estate claimed is the object
of the suit, the same may be commenced by all or any two or
more of the coparceners, tenants in common or joint tenants, or
the same may be brought by each one for his particular share of
such estate, and the same rules shall prevail in actions of trespass
for mesne profits.
Sec. 2. All joint tenants, coparceners and tenants in common,
* in- '
who now are or hereafter may be actually seised or possessed of
any estate of inheritance in any lands, tenements or heredita-
ments, in their own right or in the right of their wives, may be
compelled to make partition between them of such lands, tene
ments and hereditaments, by writ of partition or bill in equity.
Sec. 3. All joint tenants, coparceners and tenants in common,
who now are or hereafter may he actually seised or possessed of
any estate for life or years in any lands, tenements or heredita
ments, in their own right or in the right of their wives, may he
compelled to make the partition between them of such lands,
tenements and hereditaments, to continue until the estate of some
of the parties to the same shall determine, and no longer, by writ
of partition.
Sec. 4. All joint tenants, coparceners and tenants in common,
who now are or hereafter may be actually seised or possessed of
any estate for life or years in any lands, tenements or heredita
ments, in their own right or in the right of their wives, with others
who have estates of inheritance in possession in the same lands,
tenements and hereditaments, may compel or be compelled to
make partition of such lands, tenements and hereditaments, to
continue until the estate of some of the parties shall determine,
and no longer, by writ of partition.
Sec. 5. If the tenant in reversion or remainder in fee join with
the tenant for life or years in compelling partition of any such
lauds, tenements or hereditaments, against the other cotenants,
the partition shall be of the whole estate, and binding on the heirs
and assigns of all parties, and no such action shall abate by the
death of the tenant for life or years or the expiration of the term
for years, but the surviving plaintiff may prosecute the said action
to final judgment and execution.
Sec. 6. Partition of real estate holden in joint tenancy or in
common, and situate in two or more counties in the state, may be
sued for by action at law or by bill in equity in either county in
which any of the real estate is situate, and such action or bill shall
be conducted in the same manner in all respects as if all the real
estate therein named were situate in the same county : Provided,
that bills in equity for partition relating to real estate in Kent and
Bristol counties, shall be brought in the appellate division of the
supreme court in Providence.
Sec. 7. In suits at law or in equity for partition of real estate, in
which it may be alleged or may appear that any party or person in
terested therein, not a party plaintiff, is not a resident of the state,
or where it is alleged or may appear that any person interested
has left the state and it is not known where he is or whether alive
or dead, and if dead, whether leaving children or not, or that some
person unknown to the plaintiff is interested therein, the court
before whom the suit is pending may order notice to be given to
any such party or person, by ordering a copy of their order to be
published in some newspaper published iu this state for such
length of time as they may deem proper, and may also in their
discretion order letters, post-paid and directed to such party or
person, to be deposited in the post office; and where notice is
given as ordered by the court, they may proceed and render judg
ment in such suit in the same manner and with the same effect as
if such party or person had received actual or personal notice or
had appeared and answered to the suit.
Sec. 8. If a person named defendant in a writ or bill for parti
tion, being an inhabitant of this state, shall be temporarily absent
therefrom, so that, although it may be known where he is, the writ
or subpoena cannot be personally served upon him, legal service
thereof may be made by leaving a copy thereof ■with the tenant in
possession of the estate whereof partition is demanded, if any
there be.
Sec. 9. If such defendant does not appear to answer such suit,
the cause shall be continued or delayed until his return, provided
the same happen on or before the expiration of three months from
the time when said proceeding shall have been commenced, at
which time, if such defendant does not appear to answer the suit,
the court shall appoint some discreet and disinterested person as
agent of such defendant, who shall defend such suit, and in case
judgment shall be rendered for partition, shall attend to the parti
tion to be made and therein take care of the interest of the person
for whom he shall have been appointed agent as aforesaid.
Sec. 10. In any action of partition, if anv person who ought to
i i L- i n i -ii t • n -i ,i •!
be a party to such action snail be omitted in the writ, the writ or
process in such action shall not be thereby abated ; but in case the
same is pleaded, a summons shall issue to the person thus omitted,
which summons shall be served in manner prescribed by law at
least twenty days before trial, and such person may come in and
defend in the same manner as though he had been originally made
a party to such action, and if the person thus summoned shall ap
pear or shall neglect to appear, his name may be inserted in the
process by the court, and judgment shall be rendered in such
action in the same manner as if such person had been originally a
party in the writ.
Sec. 11. If, in any such action, the defendant shall be an infaut,
of unsound mind or otherwise incapacitated to take Care of
his light and estate, the court before which such action shall be
pending shall appoint some discreet and disinterested person as
guardian to defend such infant, person of unsound mind or person
otherwise incapacitated, against such suit, and in case of judgment
for partition, to attend to the partition to be made, and therein
take charge of the interest of the person for whom he shall be ap
pointed guardian.
Sec. 12. No action of partition shall be abated by the decease
of either of the parties plaintiff or defendant in such action. In
case of the decease of either of the plaintiffs or defendants in such
action, the court shall cause the heirs at law or devisees of such
deceased party to be notified of the pendency of such suit in the
same manner as if they had been parties in the original writ in
such action, and may, after such notice shall have been given, ren
der judgment in such suit in the same manner as might have been
done had such heirs or devisees been original parties in such
action.
Sec. 13. If such heirs or devisees shall voluntarily appear in
court without such notice, the court may proceed without further
delay to try, render judgment and proceed thereon in such action.
^EC- ^n ac'tions of partition against several defendants,
each of the defendants may answer severally, or any two or more
may answer jointly, and in their answers set forth the right or in
terest which they and each of them have in the estate for the par
tition of which the action is commenced.
^ec. 15- ^n s,nt-s Im' partition, at law or in equity, the court
may order the share of any plaintiff or of any defendant, or of any
two or more of the parties plaintiff and defendant, to be set off to
him or them, dividing the remainder or leaving it undivided, in
their discretion.
^EC- 16- In suits in equity for partition, the appeUate division
Qf ^jie SUpreuie court may, in their discretion, upon motion of any
party to such suits, order the whole premises sought to be divided,
or any particular lot, portion or tract thereof, or the interest of the
plaintiff or plaintiffs or of the defendant or defendants in the whole
premises, or in any particular lot, portion or tract thereof, to be
sold at public auction, under the direction of the court, by the
commissioners appointed to divide the same.
Sec. 17. No person interested in the estate and not a party to
*ne slu* shall be bound by such sale, but the court may, upon mo
tion, proceed to make all persons interested in such estate parties
thereto, though non-resident, absent or unknown, in the manner
hereinbefore provided ; in which case, if the whole of their shares
of the estate be ordered to be sold, such decree shall forever there
after, in favor of the purchaser of such estate or shares, and of
those claiming under or by virtue of him, be binding upon such
non-resident, absent or unknown person although not appearing
to such suit.
Sec. 18. In case of such sale, the proceeds of sale shall be di.
, , , , . . , , . • i ]
vided, under the direction of the court, between the parties entitled
thereto, in lieu of their interest in the estate ordered or decreed to
be sold, and the portion of the proceeds of sale to which any part}'
or person unknown or absent from the state and not appearing to
claim the same, may be entitled, may be invested for such person
by the commissioners, under the direction of the court, and in such
name as the court may direct, after deducting from such portion
the reasonable share of the costs and expenses of partition of such
party or persons, to be allowed by the court to those entitled
thereto. In all cases such investment and the further disposition
of the same, and the deposit and disposition to be made of the
evidence thereof, shall be subject only to the order and control of
the court.
yEc. if). "Whenever in anv suit for partition of real estate in
L
equity it shall be alleged or shall appear that anv person claims or
. . .... . . i i l
may claim any right, title, or interest in such estate adversely or
otherwise to any party to such suit, the court before whom such
suit is pending may order such person to appear and make his
claim in writing therein within such time as shall be prescribed by
such order, or in default thereof to be forever barred from all
right, title, interest and claim in and to such estate or any part
thereof, service of such order, actual or constructive, by publica
tion or otherwise, to be made upon such person as the court shall
direct ; and the court may thereupon proceed, and, if such person
does not appear as required by such order, may adjudge that he has
no right, title, interest or claim in or to such estate, or, whether he
appears or not, may themselves, in such manner as they deem
proper, or by a jury upon issues framed for that purpose, try and
determine what, if any, right, title, interest or claim he has therein,
and adjudge accordingly, and such judgment in either event shall
be final.
Sec. 20. Partition, either at law or in equity, may be made of
any lands, tenements or hereditaments between the person or per-
sons who hold the fee of any share or shares thereof, and the person
or persons who hold or are or may be entitled to any share or
shares thereof, for life or in reversion or remainder, and whether
such remainder be vested or contingent, and whether it be to per
sons in being and ascertained or to persons not in being or to be
ascertained thereafter, or subject to be opened to let in those
afterwards to come into being or having other interests whatso
ever vested or contingent therein : Provided, that all persons in
being at the time of the commencement of the suit for partition, in
terested in the estate, be made parties to the proceedings and
their title or interest fully shown upon the record by the plead
ings ; and provided also, that before final judgment or decree for
partition or sale in any such case the court shall appoint some
discreet person to represent the interest of persons, if any, not
then in being, whose reasonable charges, as allowed by the court,
shall be taxed in the costs and be a charge upon the share or
shares of the estate in which such parties not in being shall or
may be interested.
Sec. 21. In the event of partition, by sale and division of the
proceeds in any such case, such sale shall vest in the purchaser an
absolute esbite, in fee simple, in the lands, tenements or heredita
ments so sold, and the share or shares of the proceeds represent
ing the share or shares of the estate subject to any such reversion
or remainder after deducting and paying therefrom their propor
tional parts of the costs and expenses of partition, as determined
by the court, shall be invested, under the order of the court, for
the benefit of the person interested, or who may become interested
in the same, in the same manner as is provided in case of unknown
parties in section eighteen of this chapter.
Sec. 22. In actions of partition, as well as in suits in equity
for the same, the court before which the same may be pending
may adjudge and determine, as to them shall appear equitable
and just, relative to the apportionment of costs among the par
ties, plaintiff and defendant, by dividing the same equally or sub
jecting either party to the payment of the whole or any part
thereof.
SEC. 23. In suits for partition, either at law or in equitv, the
... . .
costs of partition, in such proportion as the court trying the same
shall adjudge to be paid by any party or parties to said suit, shall
be a lien upon the interest of any party or parties in the several
shares to him or them assigned, and in addition to the mode of
recovery now used may be recovered by sale of said several
shares upon execution to be issued in due form therefor in favor
of the party or parties who may, by payment of said costs, be en
titled to recover the same.
^ec. ^n actions at law for partition any party aggrieved by
a„v direction or ruling of the common pleas division of the su-
J & ....
Prellle c°urt, or by the decision of said division, or verdict of the
jury> any> on which a judgment that partition shall be made may
be entered, may prefer his petition to the appellate division of the
supreme court for a new trial, in the manner prescribed in section
five and following sections of chapter two hundred fifty-one ; but
if no such petition shall be preferred, such judgment shall lie final,
and said common pleas division thereupon, on the motion of the
plaintiff in such writ of partition, shall appoint and commission, at
its discretion, one or more discreet, impartial and disinterested
persons to make partition pursuant to such judgment, who shall
be sworn to the faithful discharge of their trust,
SEf. 25. The persons so appointed, first giving reasonable notice
1 . , , ..,
to the respective parties, shall make partition between them ac
cording to their several rights, as ascertained by the judgment of
the court ordering such partition,
Sec. 20. In case non-resident, absent or unknown parties or
,i- i iin n
persons be interested in such partition, and whether the commis
sion to make partition issue at law or in equity, the court issuing
the same shall order such notice to be given to such parties or per
sons interested, by the commissioners appointed to make partition,
as such court shall judge proper, and the same, when given, shall
for all purposes be as effectual as personal notice,
Sec. 27. In actions at law for partition the commissioners ap.
in n i- -n
pointed to make the same shall report their proceedings, with a
plat of the division by them made, to the court by which thev
shall have been appointed, and if no sufficient cause shall be
shown for rejecting the report, judgment shall be rendered there
on in conformity thereto, and the report, plat and judgment shall
be recorded in the records of land-evidence in the town or towns
in which such estate shall be, the expense of which record shall
be made a part of the costs in such action,
Sec. 28. If petition for a new trial shall be preferred as afore.
. . ,
said, and on healing of the case before the appellate division of
the supreme court judgment shall therein be rendered for parti
tion, the appellate division in like manner shall appoint and com
mission, at its discretion, one or more discreet, impartial and dis
interested persons to make partition, pursuant to the judgment of
said appellate division, who shall cause partition to be made in
like manner and under the same regulations as are above pre
scribed in case the said judgment for partition had been rendered
in the common pleas division ; and whenever any judgment of the
common pleas division for partition shall be confirmed by the ap
pellate division, on the complaint of any party not petitioning as
aforesaid, similar proceedings shall be had in the appellate divi
sion.
Sec. 29. In suits in equity for partition, the commissioner or
^ J * i ii i
commissioners appointed to make the same shall report their proceedings,
with a plat of the division by them made, to the court
before which such suit shall be pending, and if no sufficient cause
shall be shown for rejecting the report, a decree shall be entered
by the court confirming the same, and the plat and decree shall be
recorded in the records of land-evidence in the town or towns in
which the estate mentioned in such decree shall be, the expense
of which record shall be made a part of the costs in the cause.
Sec. 30. The recording of the said plat and decree as aforesaid
shall vest the legal title to the property therein described in the
persons to or among whom the same shall be divided or allotted,
and no conveyance shall be required to be executed for the pur
pose of vesting such legal title in such persons.
Sec. 31. In all proceedings of partition in equity, whenever
the circumstances in the opinion of the court require that the land
to be divided should be platted into lots and certain portions of
land laid out for streets or gangways for the convenience of such
lots, the decree may authorize the commissioners to take such
course subject to the approval of the court on the return of their
report : Prodded, nevertheless, that such course shall not be taken
unless all the parties to the proceedings consent thereto. But if
any party be an infant or person non compos mentis, the consent
of the guardian ad litem of such infant or non compos shall be
sufficient ; and if any party be a trustee, the consent of such trustee
shall be sufficient to bind the trust estate ; and any party in inter
est being a married woman, shall have the right to consent as if
sole and unmarried.
Section 1. Any person having: any interest in land bordering
* ^ a j n
on public tide-water, whenever a harbor-line shall have been conr
'
firmed and established in front of or adjacent to said laud, may
. . * .
apply by petition to the appellate division of the supreme court
in Providence, unless such land lies in the county of Newport or
in the county of Washington, in which case such application shall
be made to the appellate division of the supreme court in New
port or South Kingstown, respectively, for the settlement and de
termination of the lines and boundaries of his interest and of the
interests of all others in the land covered by public tide-water
within such harbor-line,
Sec. 2. Upon such petition the court may appoint three com.
1 1 ..
niissioners to make a survev of said land within and adjacent to
* *
such harbor-hue, covering such area of land as said commis
sioners may deem necessary to include the interests of all persons
whose rights may be affected by the determination of such lines ;
and said commissioners, being first sworn to a faithful discharge
of their duties, shall determine the boundary lines of the interests
of all the persons interested as aforesaid, and shall thereupon re
port to the court the boundaries so established, with a plat of said
land, within and adjacent to said harbor-line, showing the lines
established for each person having an interest therein, which said
plat, after its approval by the court, shall by order of the court be
recorded in the records of land-evidence in the town where such
land lies and in the office of the harbor commissioners.
Sec. 3. Before proceeding to make a survey and to establish the
lines according to the preceding section, the commissioners shall
notify all persons interested as aforesaid, in such manner as the
court shall direct, to appear at a time and place named to be heard ■
in relation to such survey. The report and plan of the commis
sioners, when approved by the court and recorded as aforesaid,
shall forever fix and determine the rights of all persons and par
ties, except when definite boundary lines have been established by
parties legally authorized so to do.
gEC 4 The proceedings upon such petitions shall be according
to the rules of practice of said court in suits and proceedings in
equity.
^EC- ^e just charges and expenses of the commissioners
shall be ascertained and allowed by the court ; any further costs
of said proceedings shall be taxed in the usual manner ; and all
the costs and expenses shall be apportioned by the court upon all
parties interested as aforesaid, in such proportions or amounts as
the court shall deem equitable.
Sec. 6. Any person who shall acquire, during the pendency of
such proceedings, an interest in, or title to, any lands covered by
public tide-water within such harbor-line, which are the subjectmatter
of such proceedings, may, by order of the court, be made a
party to such proceedings, and chargeable with a share of the
costs and expenses thereof, in such manner and to such extent as
the court may prescribe.
Sec. 7. No proceedings under the provisions of this chapter
shall affect any right or title of the state to any lands, unless it
consents to become a party to such proceedings.
CHAPTER 207.
OF RECEIVERS TO MANAGE JOINT ESTATES.
Suction I Section
1. Appellate division may appoint 2 Duties of receiver.
receiver of rents and promts of 3 Receivership, when to terminate,
estates of cotenants. 4. Receiver is removable for cause.
Section 1. Upon the application of any party interested the
ii , .-, . i-i i ,i
appellate division of the supreme court mav and is hereby author.
, . . . . ,, , , - , n
ized to appoint receivers of the rents and profits ot estates owned
by joint tenants and tenants in common.
Sec. 2. It shall be the duty of such a receiver to take possession
of and manage such estates, to lease the same but not under
seal, collect the rents due and as they become due, keep the
premises in repair and distribute the net income among the joint
tenants or tenants in common.
Sec. 3. Such a receivership shall terminate upon notice in
writing to the receiver by all the parties interested or their duly
authorized agents or legal representatives.
Sec. 4. Such a receiver may be for cause shown removed by
the said court and another appointed in his place, upon the peti-
11 i ' i 1
tion of any party interested in such estate.
Section 1. Every person seised of any real estate for the term
0f Jjjn own life, or for the life or lives of any other person or per-
J . * 1
sons, or as a tenant for years, who shall commit or suffer any waste,
on such estate, shall forfeit his estate in the place so wasted ami
double the amount of the waste so done or suffered, to be recov
ered in an action of waste by the person entitled to the next estate
in remainder or reversion in the place so wasted,
<gE(. 2. Every joint tenant, tenant in common or coparcener
. ,
who shall commit any waste on any estate by him holden in joht
J J .ii t
tenancy, tenancy in common or coparcenary, without the consent of
the other joint tenants, tenants in common or coparceners, shall
forfeit double the amount of the waste so done, to be recovered by
the other joint tenants, tenants in common or coparceners, to their
own use.
Sec, 3. In such case, any one or more of the other joint tenants,
tenants in common or coparceners, may commence an action for
the same in the name of all the joint tenants, tenants in common
or coparceners.
Sec. 4. If any person named as plaintiff without his consent
shall neglect to appear, after being duly notified in such manner
as the court shall direct, his name shall be stricken from the writ
and pleadings, and the other persons named as plaintiffs may pros
ecute the same to final judgment and execution in their own names
and for their own use.
&EC. 5, The common pleas division of the supreme court in anv
1 1 . r J
county, on the application of the plaintiff, in an action of ejectment,
trespass and ejectment, partition or waste, may issue a writ
of estrepement, under the provisions following, directed to the
sheriff or to his deputies in the county in which the estate in
question shall be, requiring him to stay alJ the waste on the estate
that shall be described in such writ of estrepement.
Sec. 6. The sheriff or his deputy, charged with the service of
such writ, shall have power to stay all waste, as shall be directed
in such writ, and to take such aid as shall be necessary for that
purpose.
Sec. 7. Upon the application of any person for a writ of estrepe1
. .
ment, said court, before issuing the same, shall cause the person
whose interests may be affected thereby, to be notified of the pen
dency of such application, in such manner as said court shall deem
proper, to the end that the person so to be affected by, as well as
the person applying for said writ, may be heard in the premises.
Upon such hearing the said court may, in their discretion, issue or
reftise to issue said writ, in the same manner as courts of equity
grant or refuse to grant injunctions in like cases.
Sec. 8. The said court may, on said hearing, and before the
issuing of said writ, require of the party applying for the same a
bond, with sufficient surety, in such sum as said court shall pre-
scribe, to make good to the party whose interest may be affected
by said writ all loss and damage which he may suffer by reason of
the issuing of said writ, if said court, in their discretion, judge that
the circumstances of the case or the rights of the parties require
such bond to be given.
Sec. 9. Such writ of estrepement shall be made returnable at
such time as the court shall direct.
CHAPTER 269.
OF THE ACTION AGAINST TENANTS AND OF NOTICE TO QUIT.
Section
1. Tenants at will or by sufferance
to quit at. day named in written
notice.
2. Tenants by sufferance to pay rent
for occupancy.
3. Tenants by parol from year to
year to quit at end of year on
tbree months notice in writing.
4. Tenants by parol for less than a
year to quit at end of term on
half term notice in writing, not
exceeding three months.
5. Tenants at will, by sufferance, or
by parol, to give like notice as
that required from landlord,
and with like effect.
6. Lease for definite term, to termi
nate at end of term; lease for
indefinite term, to be deemed
from year to year; except lease
at certain rate per mouth.
Section
7. Non payment of stipulated rent
gives right of action after 15
days, without demand.
8. Form of action to recover pos
session.
9. Tenant of part of original demise,
to be liable for proportional
part of rent.
10. Action for rent survives for or
against executors and adminis
trators.
11. Preceding provisions for recovery
of rent not exclusive.
12. If lease determines during a rent-
period, proportional rent may
be recovered.
13. tkime subject : If the rent has been
paid in advance, tenant may re
cover proportionally.
14. Rent for dwelling-house is a nec
essary, when.
Section 1. Tenants of lands or tenements at will or by suffer
ance shall quit upon notice in writing from the landlord at the day
.
named therein.
Sec. 2. Persons in possession of lands or tenements as tenants
by sufferance, shall be liable to pay rent therefor for such times as
they may occupy or detain the same.
Sec. 3. Tenants by parol of lauds, buildings, or parts of build
ings, from year to year, shall quit at the end of the year upon
notice in ■writing from the landlord, given at least thi-ee months
prior to the expiration of the occupation year.
Sec. 4. Tenants by parol of lauds, buildings, or parts of build
ings, for any term less than a year, shall quit at the end of the
term upon notice in writing from the landlord given at least half
the period of the term, not exceeding in any case three months,
prior to the expiration of the term.
Sec. 5. To terminate leases at will or by sufferance or by parol,
like notice shall be given by the tenant, if he would be quit of the
same, as is prescribed to be given by the landlord, and such notice
shall have the same effect, for all purposes, as if given by the land
lord to the tenant.
Sec. G. The time agreed upon in a definite letting shall be the
time of the termination thereof for all purposes ; and if there be
no time of termination agreed upon, it shall be deemed a letting
from year to year : Provided, that in any case of a letting at a
certain rate per month without any other reference as to time, the
letting shall be deemed a letting from month to month.
Sec. 7. If in any case of letting, whether by writing or parol,
the stipulated rent, or any part of the same, be due and in arrear
for a period of fifteen days, whether demanded or not, the land
lord or reversioner may re-enter and repossess himself of the lands,
buildings or parts of buildings let, or recover possession of the
same from the tenant, or any person holding under him, discharged
from the lease.
Sec. 8. All suits for possession of lands, buildings, or parts of
buildings, under the provisions of this chapter, may be by the
ordinary process of ejectment or otherwise as provided by law.
Sec. 9. Every person in possession of land out of which rent is
due shall be liable for the just amount or proportion of the rent
due from the land in his possession, although it is only a part of
what was originally demised.
Sec. 10. An action may be brought by or against executors and
administrators, for any arrears of rent accrued in the lifetime of
the deceased parties respectively, in the same manner as for debts
due from or to the same parties in their lifetime on a personal
contract.
Sec. 11. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall de
prive landlords of any other legal remedy for the recovery of their
rents, whether secured to them by lease or by provision of law.
Sec. 12. When lands are held by lease of a person who has an
estate therein determinable on a life or on a contingency, and such
estate determines before the end of a period for which rent is pay
able, or when an estate, created by a written lease or by operation
of the provisions of this chapter, is determined before the end of
such a period by surrender, either expressed or by operation of law,
by notice to quit, or for non-payment of rent, or by the death of
any party, the landlord, or his executors or administrators, may
recover in an action on the case a proportional part of such rent
according to the time expired, at such determination, of the last
period for which such rent was growing due.
Sec. 13. Upon the determination of a tenancy in any manner
mentioned in the preceding section, before the end of a period for
which rent is payable, if the rent for such period has been paid
before such determination, a proportionate part of the rent so
paid, according to the portion of such period then unexpired, may
be recovered back in an action on the case : Provided, however, that
such determination has not occurred by reason of any default of
the person claiming to recover such rent.
Sec. 14. Debts for the rent of a dwelling-house occupied by
the debtor or his family shall be deemed to be claims for neces-
saries.
CHAPTER 270.
OF TRESPASSES.
Section 1. Of double damages for cutting growing trees, and of action to
recover same.
Section 1. Every person who shall cut, destroy or cany away
,. , , ! 1 1 i 1 ■
anv tree, timber, wood or underwood whatsoever, lying or grow,
, , ■, , . , . . , , , • . 1
ing on the land of any other person without leave of the owner
thereof, shall, for every such trespass, pay the party injured twice
the value of any tree so cut, destroyed or carried away; and for
the wood or underwood, thrice the value thereof ; to be recovered
by action of trespass before any district court in the county au
thorized to hear and determine the same, if the damages do not
exceed the sum of three hundred dollars, but if they be above that
value, then before the common pleas division of the supreme court
in the same county, as the case may be.
Section 1. Whenever complaint shall be made in writing ami
. 1 °
under oath to a justice of the supreme court, that auy person has
made unlawful and forcible entry into lands or tenements, and
with a strong hand detains the same, or that, having lawful and
peaceable entry, or peaceable entry, into lands or tenements, any
person unlawfully and with force holds and detains the same, such
justice shall make out his warrant under his hand and seal, directed
to the sheriff of the county in which such lands or tenements lie,
or to his deputy, commanding him in behalf of the state to cause
to come before him, at such time and place as he shall appoint
within such county, twelve good and lawful men of the same county,
which warrant shall be in the following form, to wit : —
THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
(seal) sc. To the sheriff of the county of , or to
his deputy, Greeting:
Whereas complaint is made to me, the subscriber, by
of that of upon the day of at
with force and arma and with a strong hand did unlawfully
and forcibly enter into and upon a tract of land of him the said
in aforesaid containing acres, bounded
as follows, viz : (or, into the messuage or tenement of him, the said
as the case may he,) and him the said with force and
a strong hand as aforesaid did expel and unlawfully put out of
possession of the same, [or, as the case may be, that having lawful
and peaceable entry, or peaceable entry, such person unlawfully
and with force holds and detains him the said out of the
same,) you are hereby commanded in behalf of the state to cause
to come before us, upon the day of at in the
said county, twelve good and lawful men of your county to be im
panelled and sworn, to inquire into the forcible entry and detainer
(or, forcible detainer, as the case may he,) as aforedescribed. Given
under niy hand and seal the day of in the year
Justice of the Supreme Court.
Sec. 2. Such justice shall also make out his summons to the
, . . , .
party complained against in form following, to wit: —
THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
(seal) sc. To the sheriff of our county of , or to his
deputy, Greeting:
We command you that you summon of to appear
before the subscriber at a place called in in the said
county, on the day of at o'clock in the
noon, then and there to answer to and defend against the com
plaint of to him exhibited ; wherein said complains
that (here recite the complaint); and you are to make return of this
writ with your doings thereon unto nie upon or before the said day.
Given under my hand and seal, the day of in the
year
Justice of the Supreme Court.
Sec. 3. Such summons shall be served upon the part}' com-
plained against, or a copy thereof left at his usual place of abode,
six days exclusive, before the day appointed by the justice for the
trial ; and if, after the service of such summons, the party shall
not appear to defend, the justice shall proceed to the inquiry in
the same manner as if he were present.
Sec. 4. When the jury summoned, or such other jurors as may
be taken up on a new venire to be issued by said justice if occasion
should require, shall appear, they shall, to the number of twelve,
be impanelled to inquire into the forcible entry and detainer, or
forcible detainer, complained of, and the justice shall lay before
them the exhibited complaint, and shall administer to them the
following oath, to wit : —
FOREMAN'S OATH.
You, as foreman of this jury, do solemnly swear (or, affirm) that
you will well and truly try, whether the complaint of now
laid before you is true, according to the evidence ; so help you
God, (or, this affirmation yon make and give upon the peril of the
penalty of perjury.)
THE OATH OF THE OTHER JURORS.
The same oath which your foreman has taken on his part, you
and every one of you will well and truly observe and keep ; so
help you God, (or, this affirmation jrou make and give upon the
peril of the penalty of perjury.)
^EC- 5- ^' uPon a ruU hearing of the cause, the jury shall find
the complaint laid before them supported by the evidence, they
shall sign and return to the justice their verdict, in form following,
to wit : —
At a court of inquiry holden before one of the justices of the
supreme court within and for the county of at upon
the day of in the year the jury, upon their
oaths, do rind that the lands or tenements in aforesaid,
bounded (or, described) as follows (as in the complaint) upon the
day of in the year were in the lawful and
rightful possession of the said and that the said did,
upon the same day, unlawfully, with force and arms and with a
strong hand, enter forcibly into the same, and (or, being lawfully
upon the same) did unlawfully, with force and a strong hand, hold
and keep out the said and that he doth still continue
wrongfully to detain the possession from him, the said :
whereupon the jury find, upon their oaths aforesaid, that the said
ought to have restitution thereof without delay,
gEC. (j. Upon the return of verdict for the complainant as
1 ^
aforesaid, the justice shall enter up judgment that the complain
ant have restitution of the premises, with all costs, to be taxed by
the justice, and shall award his writ of restitution and for costs
against the party complained of, in form following, to wit : —
THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
(seal) sc. To the sheriff of our counti/ of or t)
7-7 V,
las deputy, Oreetntg :
"Whereas, at a court of inquiry of forcible entry and detainer,
holden at in our county of upon the day of
in the year before one of the justices of the supreme court,
the jurors impanelled and sworn by our said justice did return
their verdict in writing, signed by each of them, that was
upon the day of in the rightful possession of a cer
tain messuage or tract of land (as in the verdict returned) and that
(«s in the verdict) whereupon it was considered by our said justice
that the said should have restitution of the same, we com
mand you, that, taking with you the power of the county, if neces
sary, you cause the said to be forthwith removed from the
premises, and the said to have peaceable possession of the
same, and also that you levy of the goods and chattels and real
estate of the said the sum of being costs taxed
against him on the trial aforesaid, together with twenty-five cents
more for this writ, and also your own fees for levying the same,
and for want of such goods and chattels or real estate of the said
to be by you found, you are commanded to take the body
of the said and him commit to our jail in in the said
county of there to remain until he shall pay the sum afore
said, together with all fees arising on the service of this writ or
until he is delivered by order of law ; and make return of this writ
and your doings thereon within twenty days next coming.
Given under my hand and seal, the day of in the
year
Justice of the Supreme Court.
Sec. 7. If the verdict be that the complaint is not supported,
or if the jury cannot agree upon a verdict, the defendant shall recover
his costs of the proceeding, to be taxed by the justice, who
shall award to him in common form execution therefor.
Sec. 8. No appeal shall be allowed from the judgment of said
justice, nor shall anew trial be granted, in this proceeding, nor
shall such judgment be a bar to any action thereafter brought by
either party.
Sec. 9. Such proceeding may be removed by certiorari into the
appellate division of the supreme court, and be there quashed for
■ , U 4.1, 1
irregularity, if any such there be.
Sec. 10. Complaint as aforesaid may be made within three
years after the forcible entry and detainer, or forcible detainer,
complained of be committed, and not after.
Sec. 11. Every person summoned and attending as a juror shall
be entitled to the same allowance per day for his attendance and
for travel per mile as for like attendance and travel in the supreme
court ; to be paid in the first instance by the complainant before
the verdict shall be received, and to be taxed in the bill of costs
against the defendant, if the verdict be against him.
Section 1. "Whenever any goods or chattels of more than three
hundred dollars value shall be unlawfully taken or unlawfully de
tained from the owner or from the person entitled to the posses
sion thereof, and whenever any goods or chattels of that value,
which are attached on mesne process or execution or warrant of dis
tress, are claimed by any person other than the defendant in the
suit or process in which they are attached, such owner or other
person may cause the same to be replevied by writ of replevin
issuing from the common pleas division of the supreme court.
Sec. 2. If any sheriff or deputy-sheriff be party to such suit,
then the writ shall be directed to and served by either of the
town sergeants or constables in the county in which the same is to
be served.
Sec. 3. The officer charged with the service of any such writ
shall, before serving the same, take from the plaintiff or from some
one in his behalf a bond to the defendant with sufficient sureties
in double the value of the goods and chattels to be replevied, with
condition to prosecute the said writ of replevin to final judgment
and to pay such damages and costs as the defendant in such writ
shall recover against him, and also to return and restore the same
goods and chattels in like good order and condition as when taken
in case such shall be the final judgment on such writ.
Sec. 4. In case the defendant shall, at any time pending the
writ of replevin, be dissatisfied with the amount or the sureties in
such bond, the court before which the same shall lie pending may,
on his motion and for cause shown, in their discretion, order the
plaintiff to give further bond or further surety, and if the plaintiff
do not comply with such order, his action shall be dismissed and
judgment shall be rendered for the defendant, for a return and re
storation of the goods and chattels replevied and for damages and
costs, the same as if the plaintiff had neglected to enter his writ
of replevin.
Sec. 5. Whenever any plaintiff in replevin shall neglect to enter
and prosecute the suit, the defendant may, upon complaint, have
judgment for a return and restoration of the goods and chattels
replevied, and reasonable damages for the taking, with such
reasonable costs as shall be adjudged by the court, and a writ of
return and restoration thereupon accordingly.
Sec. 6. If, upon trial of the writ of replevin, judgment shall be
rendered for a return and restoration, the defendant shall recover
his reasonable damages with costs of suit.
Sec. 7. If, upon trial of the writ of replevin, the plaintiff shall
make good his plea, he shall recover of the defendant his reasona
ble damages for the taking and detention of the goods and chat
tels, and his costs.
Sec. 8. If upon trial of the writ of replevin, the plaintiff shall
make good his plea for part of the goods replevied, and shall fail
to make it good as to the other part, he shall have judgment for
Lis reasonable damages for the taking and detention of the part
adjudged to be his, and his costs, and the defendant shall have
judgment for a return and restoration of the goods and chattels
adjudged to him with damages, as provided in section seven of
this chapter, according to the relative value of such part, and with
or without costs at the discretion of the court, but the court before
whom such trial shall be had shall, in such case, set off the dam
ages recovered by each.
Sec. 9. Whenever the goods and chattels replevied shall have
. . , .. . ■.. , i 11 ■
been taken on execution or warrant of distress, they shall, in case
of a judgment of return and restoration, be held responsible for
the space of twenty days after the return thereof; if on mesne
process, until thirty days shall have expired after final judgment
thereon, in case judgment shall not then have been given, but if
final judgment on mesne process shall have been given before the
return, then for the space of twenty days only after the return, to
the end that the creditor at whose suit they were originally taken
may have a complete remedy, and the benefit of his attachment.
Sec. 10. Whenever any action of replevin shall be brought
* L °
against an officer who has taken or attached goods and chattels at
the suit of a creditor, such creditor shall have the right to assume
the defence of such suit upon indemnifying the officer against
damages and costs therein, and the money recovered by way of
damages by any such officer shall be deemed to be recovered to
the use of the attaching creditor, and when received shall be paid
over to him.
Sec. 11. The writ of return and restoration shall be substan.
. ,-. . n
tiallv as follows : —
THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS.
(seal) sc. To the sheriff* of our several counties, or to their
deputies, Greeting :
Whereas of in the county of lately replev
ied the following goods and chattels, viz: (here enumerate and par
ticularly describe them) which of in our said county
of had unlawfully taken (detained or attached, as the case
may he,) as the said suggested, and caused the said
to be summoned to appear before our common pleas division of
the supreme court to be holden at within and for our said
county of to answer unto said for such unlawful
taking (detaining or attaching, as the case may he,) on the
day of . And whereas, to our said court at their said ses
sion holden as aforesaid, upon a full hearing of the cause of the
taking (detaining or attaching, as the case may be,) it appeared that
the said taking (detaining or attaching, as the case may be,) was
lawful and justifiable, whereupon it was then and there by said
court considered that the same be returned and restored unto the
said irrepleviable, and that the said recover against
the said the sum of dollars damages, for his taking
the same by the said process of replevin and his costs of defence
taxed at as to us appears of record, whereof execution re
mains to be done : We command you, therefore, that you forth
with return and restore the same goods and chattels unto the said
and also that of the goods and chattels and real estate of
the said within your precinct, you cause to be levied and
paid unto the said the aforesaid sums, being in the whole
with twenty-five cents more for this writ, together with
your fees; and for want of such goods and chattels or real estate
of the said to be by you found within your precinct, to
satisfy and pay the sums aforesaid, we command you to take the
'body of the said and him commit to our county jail in your
precinct, therein to be kept until he pay the sums aforementioned,
with your fees, or until he be discharged by the said or
otherwise by order of law. Hereof fail not, and make true return
of this writ and your doings thereon, to our common pleas division
of the supreme court holden at in our said county of
on the day of next.
Witness, Hon. chief justice of our supreme court at
this day of in the year
Clerk.
Sec. 12. District courts may issue writs of replevin where the
*. .
goods and chattels to lie replevied are of the value of three hun
C^lec^ cl°ll,irs or less, if they were taken, attached or detained in the
district in which such district court is established. They may also
try the same and award execution therein, adhering in their pro
ceedings, as near as may be, to the forms herein prescribed.
CHAPTER 273.
OF ACCOUNT.
Section
1. Action of account lies between
tenants in common, etc., or
joint owners of property, real
or personal, when.
2. Of the appointment, qualifica
tion and duties of auditors.
bKCTION
3. Powers of auditors.
4. Judgment and costs on report,
and compensation of auditors,
how paid.
5. Auditors may act by majority;
but all are to accept and meet.
Section 1. Whenever two or more persons have and hold any
. , .
estate, interest or property, whether real or personal, in common,
. . . .
as joint tenants, tenants in common, coparceners or joint owners,
and one or more of the owners of such common property shall
take, receive, use or have benefit thereof, in greater proportion
than his or their interest therein, such owner or owners, his or their
executors and administrators, shall be liable to render his or their
account of the use and profit of such common property to his or
their fellow7 commoner or commoners, jointly or severally; and
such the fellowr commoner or commoners or any or either of them,
their executors or administrators, shall have his or their action of
account against such receiver or receivers or either of them, as his
or their bailiff or bailiffs, for receiving more than his or their part
or proportion as aforesaid.
Sec. 2. Upon rendering final judgment against the defendant
i i •
in such action that he shall account, the court rendering the same
shall appoint not exceeding three auditors, who, upon being sworn
by said court, or any justice of the peace or notary public, to a
faithful and impartial discharge of their duties, shall appoint a
time and place to meet the parties in such action and to take the
account, as required in such judgment, and shall give notice thereof
to said parties.
Sec. 3. Whenever any defendant shall unreasonably refuse or
neglect to appear at the time and place assigned by such auditors
or, after appearing, shall refuse or neglect to render an account,
the auditors may award to the plaintiff the whole of his demand,
and said auditors may administer an oath to the parties, respec
tively, and examine them respecting their accounts and the mat
ters submitted to them, and upon either of the parties refusing to
take an oath truly to answer such questions as shall be asked or
to answer directly to the interrogatories put to him, said auditors
may commit him to jail, there to remain at his own charge until he
consent to take such oath and answer such interrogatories.
Sec. 4. Whenever the auditors appointed in any case shall have
a, -i . t L1 i -nil
e tlieir report or award concerning the matter submitted to
tliem, to the court from whence they shall have received their appointment,
if no legal cause shall be shown for setting aside such
award or report, judgment shall be rendered in conformity thereto,
and also for costs, including such reasonable allowance to the
auditors for their services as the court shall judge proper to make,
and the said compensation to the auditors shall be paid down by the
party in whose favor final judgment shall be rendered before he
shall have execution on such judgment.
Sec. 5. If a ma jor part of the auditors appointed in any case
i i i i ii i n i ii
agree to and sign such report or award, the same shall he equally
binding and conclusive as if agreed to and signed by all of them :
I*rovided, that it shall be necessary, in order to give validity to
such report or award, that all the auditors shall accept of their ap
pointment and meet on the subject matter thereof.
Section 1. The appellate division of the supreme court shall
• t i ii i t • • ii-
nave jurisdiction of all cases and proceedings arising under this
chapter : Provided, that whenever the insolvents or some one of
them is an inhabitant of Providence, Kent or Bristol county, the
papers shall be filed in the clerk's office of said division in Provi
dence, and whenever they or some one of them is an inhabitant of
either Newport or Washington county, in the clerk's office of said
division iu Newport or South Kingstown, respectively. All hear
ings may be had wherever said appellate division may be in ses
sion, and one of the justices of said appellate division shall be a
quorum therein for all purposes, except on rehearing by the full
division as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 2. Any party aggrieved by any decision or order of a
single justice upon any question arising in any proceedings here
under, may have a rehearing thereon by the full appellate division
of the supreme court by claiming the same in writing tiled with
the clerk at any time within ten days after the entry of such de
cision or order; and also the said justice, if he deem it advisable,
may at once certify any question to the full appellate division.
The decision of said full appellate division shall be final and con
clusive on such rehearing.
Sec. 3. The appellate division of the supreme court by general
rule or special order shall regulate all proceedings and the forms
thereof under this chapter, and a single justice thereof shall have
full power to regulate all questions of costs and compensation for
which no special provision is herein made.
Sec. 4. The proceedings in all cases of insolvency shall he
deemed matters of record ; but the same shall not be required to
be recorded at large, but shall be filed and numbered in the office
of the clerk of said appellate division, and a docket only, or short
memorandum thereof, shall be kept by the clerk of the said appel
late division in books to be provided for that purpose.
Sec. 5. The justices of the supreme court assigned to the ap
pellate division thereof shall appoint in each county a standing
register in insolvency for such county.
Sec. 6. The appellate division, or any justice thereof, or the
register, on application of any party interested, may require any
person who is a competent witness under the laws of this state to
appear before said division, justice or register, to be examined
upon matters touching the acts or conduct of the insolvent con
cerning his assets, and such division, justice or register, may en
force such order by suitable process before said division, justice or
register, respectively.
Sec. 7. The appellate division shall designate by order in each
county one or more newspapers therein published, in which all
notices required to be published by this chapter, and all orders
which the court may require to be published, shall be inserted.
Any justice may, however, in any case, for special cause, designate
some newspaper other than or in addition to those so designated
for that purpose.
Sec. 8. Whenever in this chapter or in any proceedings there
under, time is measured by days, the number of days shall be com
puted by excluding the first and including the last, unless the last
fall on a Sunday or a legal holiday, in which event the day last in
cluded shall be the day next thereafter which is not a Sunday or
a legal holiday. The time within which proceedings may be com
menced to avoid conveyances, gifts, liens, transfers, attachments
and levies under provisions of section seventeen of this chapter,
shall date from the day of the recording, registering, riling or
adopting the conveyance, gift, lien or transfer, in all cases where
such recording, filing, registering or adopting is legally required or
permitted ; otherwise, from the date when the creditor, his servants
or agents, dealing with the debtor, takes exclusive possession of
such property or rights or valuable thing ; and in case of a levy
under attachment or execution, on the date of such levy. The
time within which cei'tain proceedings or acts shall constitute a
preference by a debtor shall begin from the date of the recording
of the conveyance, or the creation or levy of the lien or process,
or from the date when the creditor, his agents or servants, deal
ing with the debtor, takes exclusive possession of the debtor's
property.
Sec. 9. The court may at any time order any assets belonging
to any estate to be deposited in any trust company or national
bank in this state, to be by it designated.
Sec. 10. A person adjudged an insolvent shall be exempt from
arrest upon civil process upon any claim from which his discharge
in insolvency would be a release.
Sec. 11. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to petitions
by or against corporations chartered by or under the authority of
this state, and by or against copartners whose firm is established
and doing business in this state, and by or against any copartner
ship established and doing business in this state, and by or against
any inhabitants of this state, owing debts in this state to the amount
of three hundred dollars or over, and they or any of them may be
adjudged an insolvent under this chapter, either upon his, their or
its petition, or upon petition against him, it or them.
OF VOLUNTARY AND INVOLUNTARY r ItOfUKDINGS IX IXROLYKNCY.
Sec. 12. Any inhabitant of this state owing debts in this state
to the amount of three hundred dollars or more and who shall be
insolvent, may prefer his voluntary petition under oath for relief
as an insolvent.
Sec. 13. Every voluntary petitioner shall file under oath, with
his petition, a statement of all his debts and to whom due, of the
residences of his creditors, of the evidences and securities, if any,
of the amounts due, and also a schedule and particular description,
under oath, of all his property, assets and estate of every kind and
nature, in possession or action, remainder or reversion, wherever
situate, together with a statement of where it is situated, except
only such property, other than bills of exchange and negotiable
promissory notes, as may be exempt from attachment by the law
of this state.
^EC- 14- Tlie ^nS of such petition and exhibits shall be an act
°* ^solvency, and the facts therein stated being proved to the sat
isfaction of the court, such petitioner shall be adjudged insolvent.
The court shall thereupon fix the time and place for the first meet
ing of creditors as hereinafter provided, unless it shall have sent
the matter to a register, in which case the register shall fix the
time and place of said meeting, subject to the provisions of section
thirty-two of this chapter.
^EC" 15- W henever a person shall be adjudged an insolvent
upon his own petition, the clerk shall give notice to the creditors
of such petitioner, of such adjudication of insolvency, by publish
ing a notice thereof for at least two weeks in such newspaper in
the county where the insolvents or some one of them resides, as
shall have been designated therefor by the court in accordance
with the provisions hereof, and in such other method as the court
or register, if the case be sent to a register, upon inspection of the
statement and schedules of the petitioner attached to liis petition,
shall deem to be necessary. Such notice shall contain a statement
that the petitioner named therein has been adjudged an insolvent,
that the payment of any debt and the delivery of any property
belonging to such insolvent, to him or for his use or benefit, anil
the transfer or delivery of any property by him to any person, are
forbidden by law, and that at a time and place designated in such
notification the first meeting of the creditors of such insolvent for
the appointment of an assignee or assignees of his estate and for
proof of claims against the same will be held,
$EC \q ^ny person, being an inhabitant of this state, shall be
.... .
adjudged insolvent if he has within four months prior to the filing
of the petition in insolvency against him, as hereinafter provided,
procured, or suffered to remain for forty days, any attachment of
or levy upon his property, with intent to give or suffer a preference
to be obtained thereby; or, being insolvent, has suffered judgment
to be entered against him in this state or elsewhere, or has made
a conveyance, gift or transfer of all or any part of his property,
assets or rights, with intent to hinder, delay or defraud his cred
itors ; or has made an assignment for the benefit of his cred
itors ; or has procured or suffered a judgment to be entered against
himself with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud his creditors ;
or has secreted his property or assets to avoid their being levied
upon or attached under process against him, with intent to hinder,
defraud or delay his creditors ; or has suffered an execution against
him to be returned nulla bona ; or, while insolvent, has, for the
purpose of giving a preference, made a conveyance, mortgage,
pledge or transfer of any of his property or assets ; or, while in
solvent, has suff ered any of his property or assets to be taken or
levied upon by process of law or otherwise ; or, while insolvent,
has permitted the creation of any lien upon any of his property ;
or has, within four months next prior to the filing of the petition
against him, obtained credit by knowingly in writing making a
false statement or representation involving his financial condition,
property, or ability to pay ; or, being a trader, has failed to make
payment of any of his commercial paper for the period of thirty
days after maturity thereof.
Sec. 17. Whenever a petition in insolvency shall be[filed against
any person, a citation shall be issued directed to him under the
seal of the court, which shall run throughout the state, citing him
to appear at a time and place therein named not less than seven
days, exclusive of Sundays and legal holidays, from the date
thereof, to show cause, if any he has, why he should not be ad
judged an insolvent. Service of such citation may be made upon
the person against whom sitch petition has been filed, by any offi
cer authorized to serve civil process, either by reading the same
to him in his presence and hearing, or by leaving a true and at
tested copy thereof in his hands and possession, or by leaving a
true and attested copy thereof at bis last and usual place of abode
within this state. Notice to creditors and others by publication
in some newspaper published in the county where the insolvents
or some one of them resides, and in such other manner as the
court by general or special order shall direct, of the pendency of
such petition, shall be given by the clerk as soon as may be after
the filing thereof. Such notice shall contain a statement that the
respondent named therein has been cited to appear and that the
payment of any debt and transfer of any property by such re
spondent, pending such petition, is forbidden by law; and that at
the time and place designated in such notice, the hearing on such
petition will be had. If the facts stated in such petition are es
tablished on final hearing, said debtor shall be judged an insolv
ent, and the court shall thereupon fix the time and place for the
first meeting of creditors as hereinafter provided, unless it shall
have sent the matter to a register, in which case the register shall
fix the time and place of such meeting, subject to the provisions of
section thirty-two of this chapter. If the facts stated in such pe
tition are not so established before the court, or before a jury
where jury-trial is had, a right of action shall thereupon arise, for
damages suffered by reason of such petition, in favor of such per
son claimed to be insolvent, as against such petitioner or petitioners,
jointly or severally ; which action shall only be maintained on
proof that such petition was made maliciously or without jiist
cause.
Sec. 18. A person against whom an involuntary petition has
been filed shall be entitled to have a trial by jury in respect of
any act of insolvency alleged in said petition to have been com
mitted, upon filing a written application therefor on or before the
return-day of the citation notifying him of the pendency of such
petition, unless during the pendency of such petition further time
be granted him by the court for cause shown ; and thereupon the
case shall be by the clerk certified to the common pleas division
of the supreme court for such county as the court may direct, for
trial upon such issue ; and the issue having' been determined, the
cause shall be certified back to the appellate division. If such
application is not filed within such time, or further time granted
as above, a trial by jury shall be deemed to have been waived. If
a jury is not in attendance in the common pleas division for said
comity at the time of the filing of such application, said common
pleas division may order one to be summoned for the trial or the
case may be postponed until such jury is in attendance.
Sec- 19- The appellate division of the supreme court may at
any ^me alter filing- of a petition in insolvency by or against
any person, and before he has been discharged thereunder, upon
affidavit of any party in interest that such insolvent is about to
leave the state and that his so doing will delay or impede the pro
ceedings in insolvency, issue a warrant to the sheriff or his depu
ties, under the seal of the court, which shall run throughout the
state, directing him to arrest and bring such person forthwith be
fore the court ; and if upon hearing the evidence on both sides
adduced, it shall appear in the opinion of the court that the alle
gations in the affidavit are true and that it is necessary or proper
so to do, it shall either order such sheriff to keep such person in
his custody, or shall order him committed to the jail within and
for the county until he shrill give bail or recognizance in a sum
that shall satisfy the court, with satisfactory sureties, conditioned
upon his appearance from time to time, as required, before the
court or register and for his obedience to all lawful order's in such
proceedings.
Sec. 20. The court may, after the commencement of proceedbigs
by or against any debtor and before adjudication in insol
vency thereon, restrain the debtor and all other persons from
making any transfer or disposition or interference of or with any
part of the debtor's assets, choses in action, rights, credits or estate
of any kind or description ; and may, for probable cause shown, in
, " . . , . „ ,. , , -, ■
order to protect the lights of all parties, by warrant direct the
sheriff or his deputy to take and hold, subject to further order of
the court, all such assets, choses in action, rights, credits and es
tate, except such, other than bills of exchange and negotiable
promissory notes, as are exempt from attachment by law ; and the
court may direct such officer to sell at public or private sale any
perishable property so taken by him: Provided that in involun
tary proceedings, the party asking for such seizure shall first give
bond, with surety to the satisfaction of the court, to pay all dam
ages resulting therefrom in case such proceedings shall prove to
have been ill founded.
Sec- 21. One or more creditors holding in the aggregate claims
not lesS than one-fourth in amount of all the debts as they appear
at the time of adjudication of insolvency, may prefer a petition in
insolvency against a debtor. Creditors other than the original
petitioners may at any time before final adjudication of insolvency
enter their appearance and join in the petition or appear in oppo
sition thereto. Xo petition shall be dismissed except upon such
notice as the court may direct to all parties who have appeared in
support thereof or in opposition thereto.
Sec. 22. Every insolvent shall be ordered by the court to file
with the clerk within fifteen days after being adjudged insolvent
in involuntary proceedings, unless further time is granted by the
court, a sworn itemized schedule of his assets, showing the amount
and kind of property, where located and the cash value thereof, to
the best of his knowledge and belief, and a list of his creditors,
stating their names, residences and the amounts due each of them,
and the evidences thereof and securities therefor, if any, held by
them, which order, if not complied with, may be enforced by pro
ceedings in contempt.
Sec. 23. If a copartnership, or all the members thereof, be in
solvent, either during the partnership or after it has been dissolved
and before the final settlement of the partnership affairs, the affairs
of such partnership shall be settled in insolvency. The partner
ship creditors shall choose the assignee. In other respects the
estate shall be administered in the same way, so far as possible, as
herein provided for other estates. The papers in such case shall
be filed in the clerk's office in the county in which the copartner
ship may be established, or in which any copartner may be or re
side, 1)« t if such county be Providence, Kent or Bristol, the papers
shall be filed in the clerk's office in Providence, and on the peti
tion first filed in such case the court shall have jurisdiction of all
the partners and the administration of their copartnership and in
dividual assets. Separate accounts shall be kept of partnership
and individual assets, respectively, in such proportions as the court
may direct. The proceeds of the partnership assets shall be first
appropriated to the payment of the partnership debts, and the pro
ceeds of the individual assets of each partner first to the payment
of his individual debts. Any surplus from the individual assets
remaining after the payment of the individual debts, shall be added
to the partnership assets and applied to the payment of the part
nership debts. Any surplus from the partnership assets after paying
the partnership debts, shall be added to the assets of the individual
copartners in the proportion of their respective interests in the
firm assets and applied to the payment of their respective indi
vidual debts.
Sec. 2-4. Whenever any one or more, but not including all, of
the members of a partnership shall be adjudged individually in
solvent, and said partnership is solvent, either the assignee or the
solvent members of said partnership may file a bill in equity (the
assignee against the solvent members of said partnership, or the
solvent members of said partnership against the assignee, who for
all purposes of this section shall represent all the creditors of his
assignor,) setting out the facts and praying the court that the value
of the interest of such insolvent or insolvents in said partnership
may be determined through the intervention of a master in chan
cery to be appointed in said cause for that purpose. Said master
so appointed shall determine the value of such interests, and his
report, when confirmed by the court, shall be conclusive as between
the parties and the creditors represented as aforesaid by the as
signee ; and the solvent partners shall have the right, if they so
elect, to purchase such interest at such price, and to have a decree
compelling such assignee to convey such interest on payment of
the value so determined, and such assignee shall be justified and
protected in selling said interest at said price, first offering it to
the solvent partners, and thereafter to such person or persons as
may desire to purchase the same. But after said value is so
fixed as aforesaid, and such solvent partners do not elect to
purchase the same, such assignee shall be justified, after mak
ing such offer to said solvent partners and their neglect to ac
cept the same for the term of ten days, to put up the interest
of the insolvent at public auction and dispose of the same to the
highest bidder.
Sec. 25. All suits, actions and proceedings in any court of this
state, founded upon the claims from which a discharge in insolv
ency shall be a release and pending at the time of the tiling of the
petition in insolvency, shall be stayed until the debtor shall he
adjudged insolvent or the petition shall be dismissed. If he be
adjudged insolvent, execution shall be stayed until the question of
discharge of such insolvent is determined. And the court sittinsr
1=5 t m °
m insolvency may at any time order the assignee to enter his ap
pearance as defendant in a pending suit, in which case the same
shall be proceeded with to final judgment. The assignee may also
under the direction of the court prosecute, as assignee, any action,
suit or proceeding commenced by the insolvent prior to the ad
judication, and with like effect as if the same had been commenced
|,y Ljm. \ discharge, when granted, may be pleaded in bar to any
such action or proceeding to which it is a bar hereunder, or operate
as a final discharge of any execution before granted.
SEC. 2(3. If a person has been adjudged an insolvent, the court
1 . .
Illay proceed with the case, or at any time refer it generally to the
register, with instructions in the case, to act, examine and report
upon all matters specified. The court may at any time recall the
case from the register and proceed with the same.
Sec. 27'• Tlle deatn or insanity of an insolvent shall not abate
fiie proceedings which have been instituted, but the same shall be
conducted and concluded in the same manner, so far as possible,
as though he had not died or become insane : Provided, however,
that in case of death the expenses of the last illness and the funeral
expenses of the decedent, and the statutory six months support of
his family, shall be preferred claims coming in order of payment
next before debts due the United States.
OF CLAIMS AND TJIK I'ROOK THEUKOF.
Sec. 28. Debts of and judgments against the insolvent may be
proved and allowed against the estate, which are owing at the time
of the riling of the petition by or against him, whether then pay
able or not, with any interest thereon which would have been re
coverable at that date, or with a rebate of interest on such as were
not then payable and did not bear interest ; also any claims against
the insolvent which may be liquidated after the filing of the peti
tion, and growing out of any contract or promise, absolute or con
tingent, express or implied, whether the breach occurred before or
after the commencement of proceedings in insolvency, or growing
out of the rejection by the assignee of the privileges of an unex
pired contract, or growing out of trover, replevin or any tort, less
any costs incurred or interest accrued after the tiling of the peti
tion ; also any debts or judgments which are a tixed liability, as
acceptor or drawer, indorser, surety, bailor or guarantor, on any
note, bill, bond, specialty or contract, or for the debt of another.
Claims not mentioned in this section shall not lie provable against
the insolvent estate.
Sec. 29. Proof of claims shall be made by a writing under oath
by the creditor or his agent, and filed with the clerk of the appel
late division, unless the matter is sent to a register, in which case
they shall be tiled with the register. The creditor shall state in
said writing the nature and amount of his claim and the con
sideration therefor, the securities, if any, for it, and what payments,
if any, have been made on account of the same. Copies of all in
struments in writing pertaining to the claims or evidences of in •
debtedness, not lost or destroyed, shall be tiled as part of the proof
of claim, and the originals maybe ordered by the court or register,
its the case may be, to be produced and riled at any time. Claims
duly proved shall be allowed by the court or register, unless ob
jected to by some one of the parties in interest. Allowed claims
may be afterwards rejected for cause shown, after notice to and
bearing of parties interested. Claims of secured creditors may be
allowed to the extent of the debt due over and above the value of
the securities, which value shall be determined either by the court
or by a sale of the securities ; dividends shall bo paid only on such
excess. In case of mutual debits and credits, the same shall be off
set and the claim allowed only for the balance of the account.
Claims of preferred creditors, excepting claims preferred by
statute, shall not be allowed unless such creditors surrender their
preferences.
Sec. 30. Any creditor who shall prove his claim against the
estate of the insolvent at any time before the settlement of the
estate by the assignee, shall be entitled to his proportion of any
dividend declared as provided in section fifty-five of this chapter,
gEC- 31. Anv creditor not a citizen of this state shall file, with
J '
his proof of claim of any debt contracted hereafter, a stipulation,
by him signed, in the words following: "I, creditor of
who has been adjudged an insolvent in the appellate di
vision of the supreme court in the State of Rhode Island, in con
sideration of the allowance of my proof of claim and my partici
pation in any dividends that may be declared out of said estate, do
hereby agree to submit myself to the jurisdiction of said court,
and to be bound by any orders and decrees made by said court
and by any discharge which may be granted to the said insolvent,
in the same manner and to the same effect as the citizens of the
State of Rhode Island shall be bound thereby;" and in default of
such stipulation such claim shall not be allowed.
OF CKEDITOKS' MEETINGS AND PROCEEDINGS THEREAT.
Sec. 32. The court shall order the Hist meeting of the creditors
of the insolvent to be held at some place most convenient for all
parties within the county where the insolvents or some one of them
resides, and the first meeting shall be held not less than fifteen
nor more than forty days after the adjudication of insolvency:
Provided, that if by accident or mistake the same shall not be
held within such time, the court or, if the matter be sent to a regis
ter, the register, may fix a day as soon as may be thereafter. At
such meetine: the justice or, if the matter be sent to a register, the
register, shall be present and preside and shall allow or disallow
the claims of creditors there presented, and shall publicly examine
and interrogate the insolvent and permit any creditors, so desir
ing, to interrogate such insolvent. The creditors shall thereafter
choose one or three assignees of the estate. Subsequent meetings
shall be held as may seem desirable. Whenever the affairs of the
estate are ready to be closed and settled, a final meeting of cred
itors shall be had. The court or register shall call a meeting at
any time at the written request of one-fourth in amount of the
creditors whose claims have been allowed. Such meeting shall
be held within three weeks from the time of such request. Cred
itors shall be notified by mail, postage prepaid, to their respective
addresses, as they appear in the list of creditors of the insolvent
or as afterwards filed with the papers by them, of all creditors'
meetings, all examinations of the insolvent, all hearings as to com
positions and public sales of property, applications for discharge,
accounts of the assignee, payment of dividends, compromise of
any controversy, and proposed dismissal of proceedings. All such
notices shall be given by the register unless ordered by the court.
Sec. 33. At all creditors' meetings, creditors holding a majority
in value of the claims allowed shall constitute a quorum. Creditors
may vote in person or by proxy. Upon any question whereon
creditors may vote, each creditor present or represented at the
meeting shall state the amount of his claim together with his vote
on the question, and the votes of those holding a majority of the
total amount so stated shall determine the question.
OF ASSIGNEES AND ASSIGNMENTS.
Sec. 34. The creditors at their first meeting shall choose a
proper person or persons as assignee or assignees of the insolvent
estate, and fill all vacancies at called meetings. If the creditors
do not appoint an assignee or assignees at their first meeting, or
fill any vacancy at the first meeting held after such vacancy occurs,
the court or, if the matter be before a register, the register, shall
make the appointment. For cause shown the assignee or assignees,
or any of them, may be removed by the court on proper applica
tion.
Sec. 35. An assignee before entering upon the performance of
his duties, and within ten days after his appointment, shall qualify
by entering into bond to the appellate division of the supreme
court, in such sum and with such surety as shall be fixed and ap
proved by any justice of said appellate division, or by the register,
if the matter be before a register, conditioned on the faithful per
formance of his official duties : Provided, however, that any justice
of such division, or said register, may in his discretion extend the
time within which such bond shall be filed. All bonds of assignees
shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the appellate division in
Providence, and may be sued upon in any proper court at the re
lation of any person interested or aggrieved, upon surety for costs
being given to the court in which such suit is brought. Joint
assignees may give joint or several bond ; and any assignee failing
to give bond in manner aforesaid shall be deemed to have declined
his appointment.
Sec. 36. Accounts and papers of assignees and registers shall
be open to the inspection of the court and its officers and of all
parties in interest, at all proper and convenient times.
Sec. 37. The court or register shall, by an instrument under its
or his hand, assign and convey to the assignee all the estate, real
and personal, of the debtor, except such, other than bills of ex
change and negotiable promissory notes, as is by law exempt from
attachment, and all his deeds, books of account and papers relat
ing to his property conveyed, which instrument shall operate to
convey all said property of such insolvent in this state. Such
deeds, books of account and papers, after discharge is obtained or
composition effected, shall be returned to such debtor. Eveiy in,
i i ii • r n 1 •
solvent sliall execute to Ins assignee, conveyances of all his property
in any other State or Territory of the United States, in the
District of Columbia, or in any foreign country. If such convey-
ance be not made within twenty days after the appointment of the
assignee, then the creditors at a creditors' meeting may elect to
have his property in this state distributed under this chapter, but
in such case said debtor shall not be entitled to a discharge ; or
they may apply to the court for an order upon such insolvent for
such conveyance, which order, if not complied with, may be en
forced by proceedings in contempt.
Sec. 38. The assignee shall forthwith cause said assignments
*° De recorded in the registry of deeds in each town or city in
which there may be real estate of the debtor on which it way
operate, and in any event in the registry of deeds of the town
where such debtor resides, and shall give such public notice of his
appointment as the court or register shall order.
gEa 39. The assignment shall vest in the assignee all the property
of the debtor, real and personal, which he could have law
fully sold, assigned or conveyed at the time of the first publication
of the notice of the adjudication, in case of voluntary proceedings,
and at the time of the first publication of notice of the filing of the
petition, in case of involuntary proceedings, and shall be effectual
to dissolve any attachment, any levy and any lien placed upon his
property in fraud of his creditors not more than four mouths prior
to the time of the first publication in either case aforesaid. The
assignment shall also vest in the assignee all property conveyed
not more than four months prior to the first publication in either
case aforesaid by the debtor in fraud of his creditors or in fraud
of this chapter, all property conveyed by an assignment for the
benefit of creditors made not more than four months prior to the
time of the first publication aforesaid, and all debts due to the
debtor or any person for his use, and all liens and securities there
for, and all his rights of action for goods or estate, real or persoual.
and all his rights of redeeming such <roods or estate. The assignee
., , , ,. ,.
may, with the approval of the court, on ex-parte application there
for, redeem all mortgages, conditional contracts, pledges and liens
of or upon any goods or estate of the debtor, or he may sell the
same subject to such mortgage or other incumbrance ; and if a
mortgage hereafter given is foreclosed, pending proceedings in
insolvency and before the appointment of an assignee, or within
sixty days thereafter, the assignee, when appointed, may, with like
approval, redeem the same at any time within sixty days after the
appointment, with rights similar to those provided by law for the
redemption of mortgages before foreclosure.
Sec. 40. The assignee shall demand, sue for and receive from
^ 0fljcer holding under section twenty of this chapter and all
other persons, all the estate in his or their possession assigned or
intended to be assigned under the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 41 • The assignee may, under the direction of the court,
refer any controversy or dispute arising in the settlement of an
estate to the determination of three referees to be chosen by mu
tual consent, or to be appointed by the court. The written find
ings of such referees, or a majority of them, as to the issues
presented shall be filed with the clerk of the court and shall be
binding upon the parties, unless on cause shown it shall be set
aside by the court.
Sec. 42. The assignee may, with the approval of the court,
compromise any dispute or controversy arising in the administra
tion of the estate of which he is assignee, upon such terms as he
may deem for the best interests of the estate.
Sec. 43. No suit or proceeding pending at the time of the death
or removal of any assignee and to which he is a party, shall be
abated by his death or removal, but the same may be proceeded
with or defended by his joint assignees or assignee, or successor,
in the same manner as though the same had been commenced or
was being defended by such joint assignees, or assignee alone, or
by such successor.
Sec. 44. Assignees shall respectively collect and reduce to cash
the assets of the estate under the direction of the court ; deposit
all cash received by them in one of the designated depositories of
the court ; disburse funds only by check or draft upon the deposi
tories in which they have been deposited ; shall account for and
pay over to the estate all interest received by them ; furnish all
proper information in their possession at reasonable times required
by parties in interest ; keep regular accounts of all receipts and
disbursements, and showing the sources whence received and on
what account expended ; give to the final meeting of creditors a
detailed statement of the administration of their trust ; pay divi
dends within ten days after they are declared by the registers ;
report to the court in writing the condition of the estate and the
amount of money on hand, with such other details as may be
required by the court by special or general order, within two
months after they are qualified, and thereafter when ordered by
the court. Whenever three assignees have been appointed, the
concurrence of two shall be necessary and sufficient to the validity
of any act.
OF UEOISTERS.
Sec. 45. Registers shall have and may exercise all of the powers
vested in the court sitting in insolvency for the administration of
oaths and for summoning and examining persons as witnesses, and
for requiring production of documents in proceedings before them ;
and shall exercise such powers as are by this chapter conferred
upon them ; and shall also perform such duties as may be imposed
upon them by general rules or special order of the appellate di
vision of the supreme court sitting in insolvency. Upon the
application of the assignee, or in his own discretion, the register
shall have the power to authorize the employment at any time of
stenographers at the expense of the estate.
Sec. 46. In case of vacancy in the office of register, or bis ab
sence or disqualification to act, any of the justices of the supreme
court assigned to the appellate division may authorize another
register to fill the vacancy temporarily or to act for the absent or
disqualified register.
Sec. 47. Registers shall examine all schedules of assets and
lists of creditors filed by insolvents, and cause such as are incom
plete or defective to be corrected. They shall also examine sill
dividend-sheets prepared by the assignee showing the condition
of the estate and the dividends that can be allowed and to whom
payable, and on such evidence as may be presented shall declare
such dividends as are proper and order the same paid. They shall
report the evidence or the substance thereof in all contested mat
ters arising before them, whenever requested so to do by either of
the parties, together with their findings thereon, and transmit
them to the court ; and they may also certify any question to the
full appellate division for decision.
Sec. 48. Registers shall not act in cases in which they are di
rectly or indirectly interested, practice as attorneys, counsellors
or solicitors, in any proceedings in insolvency, or purchase direct!}'
or indirectly, or be in any manner interested in the purchase of, a
part or the whole of the assets of or claims against the estates of
insolvents.
OF COMPOSITIONS.
Sec. 49. An insolvent may make a proposition of composition
to his creditors after he has been examined by the court or regis
ter and has filed the schedule of his assets and list of his creditors
herein required to be tiled by insolvents. If such proposition
shall be accepted in writing by creditors who shall represent a
majority in amount of all known debts, if said offer shall have
been for fifty per centum or more of such known liabilities, or by
creditors representing two-thirds in amount of all such known
liabilities, if the offer shall have been for less than fifty per centum,
then in either case such offer and acceptance shall be filed in
court, and the cash to be paid and notes and securities given, and
an additional amount of cash sufficient to pay all other debts
which have priority, and the costs, expenses, fees and compensa
tion to be allowed in the proceedings in insolvency, shall be de
posited in such place as shall be designated by the court; and
thereupon all known creditors who have not joined in such ac
ceptance shall be notified hy publication or otherwise in such
manner as the court shall order. Thereafter, and whenever the
court shall deem that the rights of all parties in interest have been
properly protected, the court shall confirm said composition if
satisfied that it is for the best interests of all the creditors and
that the insolvent has not been guilty of any fraud or wrong-doing
with reference to his creditors after the commencement of the in
solvency proceedings against him. Upon confirmation of said
composition, the cash, notes and securities shall be distributed to
and among the creditors, subject to payment of claims having
priority, under the direction of the court, and the case shall be
dismissed. Such confirmation shall be a discharge of the insol
vent from all his indebtedness, over and above the amount paid or
agreed to be paid under the terms of such composition, due to all
citizens of this state, and due to all other persons, not citizens of
this state, who shall have been parties to the proceedings. If such
composition shall not be confirmed by the court, proceedings shall
go on as if such offer had not been made.
OF DISCHARGES.
Sec. 50. A discharge in insolvency shall release an insolvent
from all his provable debts due to citizens of this state, and from
all his provable debts due to all other persons who shall have be
come parties to the proceedings by proving their claims as herein
provided, except to such as have priority as provided in section
fifty-eight of this chapter.
Sec. 51. Any insolvent may, at any time after being adjudged
an insolvent, apply to the court for a discharge. Notice of such
petition and of the time and place of hearing thereon shall be
given, to all parties interested, in such manner as the court may
direct, by publication or otherwise. The court shall hear the peti
tion for discharge and such answers or objections as may be filed
in opposition thereto by parties in interest, and shall discharge
the petitioner if the circumstances warrant. But if the petitioner
be a merchant, manufacturer or trader, he shall not be discharged
if he has, within four months prior to being adjudged insolvent,
failed to keep or has destroyed his books of account, or papers,
from which his true condition may be known, with the intent to
hinder, defraud or delay his creditors; or given or suffered to be
created a preference, as herein defined, under an assignment for
the benefit of creditors or otherwise, which preference has not
been surrendered ; or knowingly made any material false state
ment in writing concerning his financial condition to any person
for the purpose of obtaining credit, or to those from whom he has
sought to obtain or has obtained credit, or made any conveyance
or transfer of his property, or suffered any lien thereon to be ob
tained in fraud of this chapter, unless such property or lien shall
have been surrendered to the assignee: Provided, that such dis-
\ -i iiiii •■ * l • * •
charge may he granted under the provisions of section forty-nine
of this chapter, or with the consent of his creditors representing
two-thirds in amount of all known and undischarged liabilities.
But nothing herein contained shall affect section thirty-seven of
this chapter.
Sec. 52. The liability of a person who is a co-debtor with, or
i » i i i t
guarantor, or in any manner surety, for a person who has been ad-
judged insolvent and thereafter been discharged, shall not be
abridged or altered by such discharge.
gEC 53 ingoivent shau be deemed to have given a prefer
ence if, being insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency, he has
suffered or procured judgment to be entered against himself, or
made a transfer of any or all of his property or estate, or suffered
any part thereof to be taken or levied upon by process of law or
otherwise, or any lien to be obtained thereon, with intent to defeat
the provisions of this chapter, or to enable any one or more of his
creditors to obtain a preference. Any preference given within
four jj^Qjj^g before the filing of the petition in insolvency by or
against a person hereunder, may be avoided by the assignee and
he may recover the property, or the amount of the preference,
from the person obtaining such preference, provided such person
or his agent knew, or had reasonable cause to know or believe,
that such preference was given in violation of the provisions of
this chapter.
OF CONTINUING THE BUSINESS.
Sec. 54. The court may, whenever it deems it for the best in-
J ' ....
terest of the insolvent estate so to do, upon the application of anv
. . . .. „ ' _f. , " , .
party in interest, after notice to all parties who have appeared m
the proceedings from time to time, authorize and direct the as
signee to continue and carry on at the risk of the insolvent estate
pending the sale of the assets and the settlement of the estate, for
such period and in such manner as it may prescribe, any mercan
tile, manufacturing or other business which may be in operation
and form a part of the assets of the insolvent estate at the time of
the adjudication in insolvency; and it may from time to time
authorize and direct the assignee to borrow, on the credit of the
estate, any necessary money to an amount specified by it, to cany
on such business, and to give his obligations as assignee therefor.
gucb. obligations shall be a preferred lien against such estate, and
0 1 0 1
shall be paid therefrom before anv dividend is paid. There shall
r , 1 • 1
be no personal liability imposed on the assignee by any action
which he may lawfully take under the provisions of this section.
OF DIVIDENDS, DISTRIBUTION AND FEES.
$EC 55 j± dividend of an equal per centum shall be declared
.
by the register on all allowed claims, except such claims as have
priority, within thirty days after the adjudication of insolvency, if
the money belonging to the estate, in excess of the amount neces
sary to pay the claims and debts which have priority, equals five
per centum or more of all known claims not having priority. Divi
dends, subsequent to the first, shall be declared upon like terms as
the first and as often as the amount shall equal ten per centum or
more of all known claims not having priority, and upon winding
up the estate. Dividends may be declared oftener if the court
shall so order.
Sec 56. The rights of creditors who have received dividends,
or in whose favor final dividends have been declared, shall not be
affected by the proof and allowance of claims subsequent to the
date of such payment or declarations of dividends ; but the cred
itors proving and securing the allowance of such claims, shall
be paid dividends equal in amount to those already received by
the other creditors, if the estate equal so much, before such other
creditors are paid any further dividends.
Sec 57. Dividends which remain unclaimed for six months
after the final dividend has been declared, shall be paid by the
assignee into the registry of the appellate division of the supreme
court. Unclaimed dividends remaining in such registry for the
space of six years, shall under the direction of the court, be paid,
less expenses, to the insolvent.
Sec. 58. The costs and expenses of administration in proceed
ings tinder this chapter, including registers' and clerks' compen
sation and expenses, the expenses and compensation of the as
signee and the reasonable fees of his counsel and attorney, shall
be first paid in full out of the insolvent estate, in the order named.
Sums due to the United States, to the State of Rhode Island, to
any town or municipality in said state, and for the wages of labor
performed within six months next prior to the adjudication in in
solvency, not exceeding one hundred dollars to any one person,
shall be next paid in full out of the insolvent estate, in the order
named.
Sec. 59. The actual and necessary expenses incurred by the
register and the assignee, shall be reported in detail under oath
to the court and, if approved by it, allowed and paid out of the
estate as part of the expenses of administration.
Sec. 60. The appellate division of the supreme court may by
general rule, and in special cases by special order of one justice,
prescribe the compensation to be paid to registers for services out
of insolvent estates.
Sec. 61. Assignees shall receive, as full compensation for their
services, a commission on sums paid out as dividends to the cred
itors, of five per centum on the first five thousand dollars or less,
two per centum on all such sums in excess of five thousand dol
lars and up to ten thousand dollars, and one per centum on all
such sums in excess of ten thousand dollars : Provided, that in
no case shall the compensation be less than one hundred dollars,
and that in special cases further allowance may be made by the
court; and provided also that, in case there are siiccessive as
signees, the fees shall be apportioned between them by the court
in proportion to the services actually rendered. The court may
withhold all compensation from an assignee who has been removed
for cause.
^EC- 62- ^-ne provisions of this chapter, and any provisions to
the contrary of the provisions of this section contained in the
i T -i 1 ■ • i ■ i i
General Laws, do not apply to any assignment, receivership, deed
of trust, or proceeding for the appointment of a receiver, for the
benefit of creditors, made, executed or had prior to the time when
the General Laws take effect ; and it is hereby expressly provided
as to such assignments, receiverships, deeds, or proceedings, and
every of them, that all provisions of law and statute existing at
the time each such assignment, receivership, deed, or proceeding,
was made, executed or had, and applicable thereto, shall, as to
each such assignment, receivership, deed, or proceeding, respec
tively, be and remain in full force and effect, notwithstanding any
amendment or repeal thereof.
