3440. All contracts may be sued on in the same form of
-
action.
§ 3441. A11 wrongs and injuries to the property and person, A
in which money only is demanded as damages, may be re- c
dressed by an action on the facts of the case. Penal actions
may be brought in the same form. 
§ 3442. Whenever the facts of the case entitle the plaintiﬁ
to sue for breach of contract, or, at his election, for the wrong
and injury, he may join statements of his cause of action in
both forms, or either.
§ 3443. \V here the action is to recover s eciﬁc personal
property, if the party seeks to obtain possession at the insti
tution of the suit, he may sue in replevin. If he seeks to re
cover the possession only at the end of the suit, he may bring
detinue.
§ 3444. Where the action is to recover real property, eject
ment, or forcible or unlawful entry or detainer, may be
brought.
§ 3445. In all actions at law, the cause of action shall be
stated clearly, expllcltly, and as brieﬂy as possible.
§ 3446. The provisions of this Code, under the title devoted
to the court 0 chancery, apply to all equitable proceedings
in any other court.
§ 3447. The general PI‘OVISIOIIB of the Code, in regard to
actions and their incidents, apply to proceedings before jus
tices of the peace, unless controlled by the provisions de
signed expressly for such proceedings.
§ 3448. The suing out of a summons is the commencement
of an action, witlun the meaning of this chapter, whether it
be executed or not, if the action is duly prosecuted and con
tinned by the issuance of alias process from term to term, or
recommenced within one year after the failure to execute.
§ 449. If the action is commenced within the time limited,
but thejudgment or decree is rendered against the plaintiﬂ'
upon any ground not concluding his right of action, or where
the judgment or decree is rendered in favor of the plaintiff,
and is arrested, or reversed on appeal, the plaintiff, or his
representatives and privies, as the case may be, may, from
time to time, commence a new action within one year after
the reversal or arrest. '
§ 3450. When the commencement of an action is stayed by
injunction, the time of the continuance of the injunction is
not to be counted. '
§ 3451. If the person entitled to commence an action is,
the time the cause of action accrued, either,
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,
2. Of unsound mind; or,
3. A married woman; or,
4. Beyond the limits of the United States and the territo
ries thereof;
Such person, or the representatives and privies, as the case
may be, may commence the action after the removal of such
disability, within the time of limitation for the particular
cause of action, unless it exceed three years, and in that case
within three years from the removal of such disability,
§ 3452. The provisions of the foregoing section shall not
apply to actions on a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, or
to actions against the estate of a deceased person brought
more than seven years from the death of the deceased, and
the time the causes of action accrued, nor to cases provided
for in section 3463.
§ 3453. N0 person can avail himself of a disability unless it
existed when his right of action accrued; but when two or
more disabilities then exist, the limitation does not attach
until all are removed.
§ 3454. The time between the death of a person and the
grant of letters testamentary or of administration on his es
tate, not exceeding six months, and the six months within
which a personal representative is exempt from suit, is notto
be taken as a part of the time limited for commencing actions
which lie against the personal representative.
§ 3455. The word “ action” in this cha ter includes motions,
garnishments, petitions, and other lega proceeding in judi
cial tribunals for the redress of civil Injuries.
§ 3456. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to ac
tions brought either by or against the State of Tennessee, un
less otherwise express y provided. 
§ 3457. No statute of limitations shall be held to operate
from and after the sixth day of May, 1861, to the ﬁrst day of
January, 1867, and from the latter date the statutes of limita
tions shall commence their operations according to‘ existing1
laws, and the time between the sixth day of May, 1861, an
the ﬁrst day of January, 1867, shall not be computed, nor
shall any writ of error be refused or barred in any suit de
cided since the sixth day of May, 1861, or within one year
immediately prior to that date, by reason of lapse of time.
§ 3458. It at any time an cause of action shall accrue
against any person who shal be out of this State, the action
may be commenced within the time limited therefor, after
such person shall have come into the State, and after any
cause of action shall have accrued, if the person against
whom it has accrued shall be absent from or reside out of the
State, the time of his absence or residence out of the State
shall not be taken as any part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action.
§ 3459. Any person having had, by himself or those through
whom he claims, seven years’ adverse ossession of any lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, granted) by this State or the
State of North Carolina, holding by conveyance, devise, grant
or other assurance of title, purportin to convey an estate in
fee, without any claim by action at aw or in equity, com
menced within that time and effectually prosecuted against
him, is vested with a good and indet'easible title in fee to the
land described in his assurance of title.
§ 3460. And, on the other hand, any person, and those
claiming under him, neglecting for the said term of seven
years to avail themselves of the beneﬁt of any title, legal or
equitable, by action at law or in equity,eﬁ'ectually prosecuted
against the person in possession, as in the foregoing section,
are forever barred.
§ 3461. N0 erson, or any one claiming under him, shall
have any action, either at law or in equity, for any lands,
tenements or hereditaments, but within seven years'after the
right of action has accrued. ,
§ 3462. The provisions of the foregoing sections do not ap
ply to lands, tenements or hereditaments reserved for the use
of schools.
§ 3463. A continuous adverse possession of twenty years or
more of land, held under a conveyance from husband and
wife, executed upon valuable consideration, without fraud
'upon the wife, and registered more than twenty years before
any suit commenced, shall be an absolute bar to any suit by
husband and wife, or either of them, or an person claiming title by or through either of them, whet ter the said wife
was privily examined or not.
§ 3463 Possession is not adverse Within the meaning of
y Person qlalmlng 9» right or interest in
terest, or when taken and ' l"
right or interest of another. 
§ 3464. No suit or suits shall be hereafter brought in any
court whatever in this State, for the recovery or ossession of
any real estate, or land of any kind, or any lega or equitable
interest therein, where the defendant, his heirs or assigns,
claims said land, or real estate, or any interest therein, under
and by virte of any sale of said land, or real estate, or interest
therein, which sale may have been made under and by virtue
of any judgment or decree of any county, circuit, ehancery,
§ 3466. All ClVll actlons, other than those for causes em-
braced in the foregoing article, shall be commenced after the
cause of action has accrued, Within the periods (prescribed in
this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provide .
§ 3467. Actions to recover money or goods lost at any kind
of gambling or betting, and aid or de ivered, if brought by
the loser, shall be commence within ninety days next after
such payment or delivery. If brought for the use of the
wife, child, or children, or next of kin, within twelve months
from the ex iratio'n of the ninety days; if by a creditor of
the loser, Within twenty-four months from the end of said
ninety days.
§ 3468. Actions for slanderous Words spoken, shall be com-
menced within six months after the words are uttered.
§ 3469. Actions for libel, for injuries to the person, false im-
prisonment, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation, se-
duction, breach of marriage promise, and statute penalties,
within one year after cause of action accrued.
§ 3470. Actions for injuries to personal or real property;
actions for the detention or converson of personal property,
within three years from the accruing of the cause of action.
§ 3471, Actions against sureties of any collecting oﬁicer for
failing to pay over money collected, when he has made return
of an execution or other process, that the money is made or
the process satisﬁed, Within three years from the return of
the process.
§ 3472. Actions for the use and occupation of land and for
rent, actions against the sureties of guardians, executors and
administrators, sheriﬁ's, clerks, and other public oﬁicers, for
nonfeasance, misfeasance, and malfeasance in oﬂice; actions
on contracts not otherwise expressly provided for, within six
years after the cause of action accrued.
§ 3473. Actions against guardians, executors, administra
tors, shertti's, clerks, and other public ofﬁcers on their bonds;
actions onjudgments and decrees of courts of record of this
or any other State or Government, and all other cases not
expressly provided for, within ten years after the cause of ac
tion accrued.
§ 3474. The limitations herein provided do not apply to
such actions as concern the trade of merchandise between
merchant and merchant, their agents and factors, while the
accounts between them are current.
§ 3475. When there are mutual accounts between persons
who are not merchants, the time is computed from the true
date of the last item, unless the account is liquidated and a
balance struck.
§ 3476. The provisions of this chapter, do not apply to ac
tions to enforce payment of bills, notes, or other eVidences of
debt issued or put in circulation as money.
§ 3477. When a right exists but a demand is necessary to
. . . . .
entitle the party to an action, the limitation commences from
the time the plaintiff’s right to make the demand was com
pleted, and not from the date of the demand.
§ 3478. When an injury arises from the act or omission of a
deputy or a cut, the time for the limitation of an action by
the principa against such deputy or agent does not com
mence to run until the liability of' the principal for the act or
omission is ascertained by suit of the aggrieved party against
such principal or otherwise.
§ 3479. So, also, the time for the limitation of an action by
a surety or accommodation endorser against his principal on
ne otiable paper, or for any matter growing out of the sure
tysiip, does not commence to run until judgment is rendered
against the surety or endorser, or he has paid the money.
§ 3480. Where the statute of limitations of another State or
government has created a bar to an action upon a cause ac
cruin therein, whilst the party to be char ed was a resident
in sue State or under sue government, t e bar is equally
eﬂ'ectual in this State.
§ 3481. Actions against the personal representatives of a de
ceased person, shall be commenced by a resident of the State
. . a . . . .
Within two years, and by a non-resident Within three years
after the qualiﬁcation of the personal representative, if the
cause of action accrued in the lifetime of the deceased, or,
otherwise, from the time the cause of action accrued.
§ 3482. Any delay granted by the person entitled to sue at
. . .
the special request 0 the personal representative, shall not
be counted in the time speciﬁed in the foregoing section _
§ 3483. But all actions against the personal representatives
of a decedent for demands against such decedent, shall be
brought within seven years after his death, notwithstanding
any disability existing; otherwise they will be forever barre '
§ 3484. Persons jointly or severally or jointly and severally
bound on the same instrument, or by judgment, decree, or
statute. including the makers and endorsers of negotiable pa-
per and sureties, may all or any part of them be sued in the
same action.
§ 3485. Suit may be brought by or against any of the parties
to a written instrument on which the action is founded, by
the name and description used in the instrument.
§ 3486. All joint obli ations and romises, are made joint
and several, and the de t or obligation shall survive against
the heirs and personal representatives of deceased obligors, as
well as against the survwors, and suits may be brought and
prosecuted 0n the same, against all or any part of the original
obligors, and all or any art of the representatives of deceased
' obligors, as if such ob igations and assumptions were joint
and several.
§ 3487. In all actions on contracts, a dismission of suit as to
one or more of those jointly sued, or failure to recover as to
one, shall not prevent a recovery against those defendants
who may be liable. 
§ 3488. Where one of several executors or administrators
removes out of the State, actions may be prosecuted and
judgments rendered against such as remain, in the same
manner as if all were sued.
§ 3489. And if the cause of action be within the jurisdic
tion of a justice of the peace, it may be prosecuted against
the administrator or executor who remains in the county,
where one of them removes out of the State or into another
county. 9
§ 3490. But the defendants, so separately sued, shall not be
held further liable than if all were sued, and may avail them
selves of all the defenses allowed where all are sued.
§ 3491. The same proceedings may be taken on judgments
rendered in such separate suits, to subject the defendants for
waste of assets, or to subject real estate descended to heirs,
as when all the executors or administrators are sued.
§ 3492. In all suits prosecuted in the name of one person
for the use of another, the person for whose use the suit is
brought shall be held the real plaintiff of record.
See 1 Heis., 315; 10 Hum., 342; 1 Lea, 7; l Bax..166.
§ 3493. The person whose name is used in the prosecution
of a suit, may, at any time during the progress of the cause,
' require the party for whose beneﬁt the actiOn is brought, to
give bond with good security to indemnify him against all
amages and costs.
§ 3494. For any breach of an ofﬁcial bond or undertaking
of any oﬂicer, executor, administrator or guardian, or of any
bond or undertaking required to be given by law for the
security of the public generally, or of particular individuals,
the party aggrieved may, without assignment, bring suit
thereon for his use, giving security for costs, and being liable
therefor as if the suit had been brought in his own name.
§ 3495. At any time before trial, new plaintiffs or defendants
may be added to the suit by the plaintiﬂ, upon supplemental
process taken out and served, and subject to such terms, in
regard to costs, as the court may impose. If at the appear
ance term, it may be done without cost; if at any subsequent
term, on such conditions as the court may prescribe, so as es
pecially to prevent delay.
§ 3496. In actions for the recovery of property, any erson
not a party thereto, on showing himself interested 1n the
subject-matter of the suit, may be allowed to appear as de
fendant therein.
§ 3497. At any time before defense made, the defendant
may apply to the court or justice to substitute in his place
any person, not already a party, who claims the money or
property in suit, b
ﬁling his afﬁdavit, stating the facts on
which he founds is application, showing that the right in
the subject-matter in controversy is in such third person;
that he (aﬁiant) has no interest in the suit, and may be ex
posed to the claim of two or more adverse parties, denyin
all collusion with the person sought to be substituted, and
proﬂ'ering to pay the money, or deliver the property into the
custody of the court. If, on notice to the plaintiff and the
person sought to be substituted as defendant, sufﬁcient cause
e shown, the court may order the substitution and discharge
the original defendant from liability to either party, and
make such disposition, pending the suit, of the fund or prop
erty in controversy, as to secure the money, property, or its
value, to the party who shall prove to be entitled.
§ 3498. Where property is levied upon under process of
law, by an ofﬁcer, and taken into possession, and an action is
brought against said ofﬁcer for the recovery of the same or
for damages, any person at whose instance the process issued,
may be permitted to come into court at any time before the
cause is ﬁnally disposed of, and be substituted as defendant
in the place of said oﬂicer, of which an entry shall be made
upon the minutes of the court, and said party so substi
tuted may, in the discretion of the court, be compelled to as- p
sume and give security for all costs that have or may become
chargeable to said oﬁicer up to the time of the substitution
aforesaid. _
§ 3499. Upon written notice, from the ofﬁcer, being served
upon the party at whose instance the process issued, statin
the nature of the suit, the court in which it is pendin . an
demanding that such party come into court and be substituted
in the place of the ofﬁcer and stating the day upon which
the application for substitution shall be made; if such party
does not appear and become substituted in the ofﬁcer’s place,
the ofﬁcer may permit judgment to go by default against
himself, or make defense.
§ 3500. Upon the substitution, the ofﬁcer shall no longer
be a party to said suit, but shall be a competent witness in
the same.
§ 3501. An unmarried female may prosecute an action for
her own seduction, and recover such damages as may be
found in her favor.
§ 3502. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of his
family, the mother, may bring a suit for the seduction of a
daughter, althou h such daughter be not living with nor in
the service of the plaintiff, and though there be no loss of
service. But a recover in one suit. by the father, mother,
or daughter, shall be a ar to all other actions for the same
cause. '
§ 3503. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of his
family, the mother, may maintain an action for the expenses
and the actual loss of service resulting from an injury to a
minor child, in the parent’s service or living in the family.
§ 3504. An action for the ittjury to the child shall be brought
in the name of the child itself.
§ 3505. \Vherc a husband has deserted his family, the wife
may prosecute, or defend in his name, any action which he
might have prosecuted or defended; she may also sue and be
sued in her own name for any cause of action accruing sub
sequent] y to such desertion.
§ 3506. The State shall commence and prosecute suits ac
cording to the laws of the land, as in cases between individ-v
uals, except that no security shall, in such case, he required.
§ 3507. N0 court in the State of Tennessee has, nor shall
hereafter have, any power, jurisdiction or authority to enter
tain any suit against the State, or against any oﬁicer of the
State acting by authority of the State, with a view to reach
the State, its treasury, tunds 6r property, and all such suits
now pending, or hereafter brought, shall be dismissed as to
the State or such ofﬁcers, on motion, plea, or demurrer of the
law oﬂiccr of the State, or counscl employed for the State.
§ 3508. In all suits brought by the State, where it shall be
made to appear to the satisfaction of the chancellor or judge
before whom the same is pending, that any funds, moneys,
bonds, notes, coupons or securities are held by any person or
party, corporation or company, as agent, depository or trus
tee, either for the State or for any of the parties against whom
the suit is pending, and the litigation involves the question
which party is entitled to the ownership or possession of the
fund, or the terms on which it shall be taken by the State, it
shall be the duty of the court, judge or chancellor, or either,
in open court or at chambers, in term or in vacation, to order
and direct that such fund shall be deposited in the treasury
for safe keeping, which order he shall proceed to enforce by
process of attachment against the person, or by such other
writ, process, orders, or agency as may be adequate to the
purpose.
§ 3509. No appeal shall lie from any such order until after
it has been fully complied with, nor shall any supersedeus be
granted therein until after the same is fully complied with.
§ 3510. The court, judge or chancellor shall make such order
as he may deem necessary for the safe keeping or cancella
tion, and re-dclivcry or appropriation of the securities so
deposited. '
§ 3511, \Vhere moneys shall be deposited in the treasury of
the State under these provisions, the court shall have power,
in the event the right thereto shall he adjudged against the
State, to order the return thereof to the party entitled, and
the same shall be paid out of the treasury without any delay,
and in exclusion of all other claims whatever.
§ 3512. Such funds or securities shall be placed in the treas
ury, and drawn therefrom on warrants of the Comptroller.
§ 3513. In all transitory actions, the right of action follows
the person of the defendant, unless otherwise expressly pro
vided.
§ 3514. If the plaintiff and defendant both reside in the
same county in this State, such action shall \be brought in'
the county of their residence. 
§ 3515. In actions commenced by the attachment of prop
erty without personal service of process, and in cases where
the suit is brought to obtain possession of personal property,
or to enforce a hen or mortgage, or where it relates to real
property, the attachment may be sued out or suit brought in
any county where the real property or any portion of it
lies, or where any part of the personal property may be
found. 
§ 3516. When a corporation or company or individual has
an ofﬁce or agency in any county or the transaction of
business, actions growing out of or connected with the busi
ness of that oﬁice or agency, may be brought in the county
in which such ofﬁce or agency is located.
§ 3517. If action be brought in' the wrong county, it may be
rosccuted to a termination, unless abated by plea of the de
endant.
§ 3518. All ciwl actions at law in courts of record, or before
justices of the peace, except otherwise provided, shall be com
menced by summons.
§ 3519. The summons shall be signed by the justice or clerk
of the court, as the case may be, and directed to the sheriff
or other proper ofﬁcer, and require the defendant to appear
and answer the plaintiff’s action.
§ 3520. The summons from a court of record may be in sub
stance as follows:
“STATE OF TENNESSEE,
county.
“To the sheriff of county: You are hereby com
manded to summon A B to appear at the next term of the
court to be held for said county at the courthouse
thereof, on the day of i , then and there to answer
0 D in an action to his damage —dollars.
-‘ Witness my hand this day of .
- E F, Clerk.”
§ 3521. The cause of action in the summons may be stated
brieﬂy in general terms.
§ 3522. The summons from a justice’s court shall be sub
stantially the same, but requiring the defendant to appear
before any justice of the county on a day ﬁxed, or generally
as at present used. If no time or place be desi nated, the
oﬁicer serving the process shall notify the defen ant of the
time and place, and make his return accordingly.
§ 3523. The justice may, and the clerk shall, before issuing
the summons or other leading process, require the plaintiff to
enter into bond, with suﬁicient surety, conditioned to prose
cute his suit with eﬁ'ect, or to pay such costs and damages as
may be awarded against him by the court having cognizance
thereof, unless the plaintiﬁ sue in farma pauperz's, as pre
scribed in chapter 15 of this title.
§ 3524. The clerk, justice, or attorney issuing any process,
shall mark thereon the day on which the same 18 issued; and
the sheriﬁ' or other oﬁicer into whose hands the same shall
come to be executed, shall, in like manner, mark thereon the
day on which he shall have received it. The penalty for neg
lect of this requirement shall be a forfeiture of one hundred
and twenty-ﬁve dollars, to be recovered in any court having
cognizance thereof, by any person who shall sue for the same,
with costs.
§ 3525. Process in local actions may run to any county in
the State.
§ 3526. Where there are two or more defendants in any suitv
in courts of law or equity, or before justices of the peace,
the plaintiff may cause counterpart summons or subpoena to
be issued to any county where any of the defendants are
most likely to be found, the fact that the counterpart process
is issued in the same suit being noted on each process, which,
when returned, shall be docketed as if only one process had
issued. If the defendants are not served, the same proceed
ings shall be had as in cases of other similar process not ex
ecuted.
§ 3527. Such counterpart, when issued from a justice, shall
be returned within thirty days.
§ 3528. In joint actions on negotiable paper, service of a
counterpart writ on the drawer or maker shall not be sufﬁ
cient service to hold him to answer the action, unless the
ori 'nal writ shall have been executed on a joint drawer or
ma er.
§ 3529. Civil process may be issued on the Sabbath, on the
a plication of any party, supported by oath or aﬁirmation,
t at the defendant is removin , or about to remove him
self or pro erty beyond the jurisdiction of the court or jus
tice applie to.
§ 3530. The clerk or justice shall endorse on the back of
such process, that it was obtained on the oath of the plaintiff,
his agent or attorney, as directed in the preceding section.
§ 3531. It shall be the duty of the proper oﬂicers to execute
all such process on the Sabbath, subject to the same penalties
and regulations as in other cases.
§ 3532. With this exception, civil process shall not be exe
cuted on Sunday.
§ 3533. All process issued from any of the circuit courts
and returnable thereto, shall be tested of the term next pre
ceding the issuance.
As to the test of attachment writs, see 2 Cold., 153.
§ 3534. Ori inal process shall be served by reading the same
to the defen ant, or oﬁ'ering to read it, in case he neglects or
refuses to hear it read,
§ 3535. All civil process in courts of law or equity, except
in cases otherwise provided in this Code, shall be returnable
to the ﬁrst day of the term next ensuing their issuance, if is
sued and served ﬁve days before such term. If issued or
served within the ﬁve days, they shall be returnable to the
ﬁrst day of the succeeding term.
§ 3536. Service of process on the president or other head of
a corporation, or, in his absence, on the cashier, treasurer, or
secretary, or, in the absence of such oﬁicers, on any director
of such corporation, shall be suﬁicient.
§ 3537. If neither the president, cashler, treasurer, or secre
tary resides within the State, servrce on the chief agent of
the corporation, residing) at the time in the county where the
action is brought, shall e deemed sufﬁcient.
§ 3538. If the action 1s commenced 1n the county in Wthh
the corporation keeps its chief ofﬁce, the process may be
served on any one of the foregorng oﬂicers, in the absence of
those named before him.
§ 3539. When a corporation, company, or individual has an
ofﬁcer or agency, or resident director 1n any county other
than that in which the chief ofﬁcer or principal resides, the
service of process may be made on any agent or clerk em
ployed therein in all actions brought in such county against
said company growing out of the business of, or connected
with, said company or principal’s business.

§ 3540. All persons, companies, and corporations, resident
and non-resident of this State, runnin and operating steam
boats in any of the rivers in and bordering on this State as
common carriers, may be sued in law or equity in any county
in the State, where the boat or boats of such person, com
pany, or corporation lands, for any cause of action or suit
growing out of or connected with the business carried on or
one by or in connection with the running and use of such
boat or boats.
§ 3541. Service of process on any captain or clerk of any
boat of such person, company or corporation, whether it be
the particular boat complained of or immediately connected
with the transaction out of which the cause of suit or action
originates or not, shall be sufﬁcient to bring such person,
company or corporation into court. 
§ 3542. In all civil cases at law where the issue is to be tried
by jury, and in all cases of issues in courts of equity, directed
to be tried by jury, either in the circuit or chancery courts,
and in all civil or criminal cases before a justice of the peace,
the venue may be changed, at any time before trial, upon
good cause shown as hereinafter prescribed.
§ 3543. The venue may be changed by the plaintiff or de
fendant, or both, but not more than once by each, except for
causes not in existence when the ﬁrst chan e was taken.
§ 3544. The party applying for a change 0 venue shall make
a statement of facts, in writing, under oath or aﬂirmation,
that he verily believes that owing to prejudice, or other
causes, then existing, he cannot have a fair and impartial trial
in the county, or before the justice, where the cause is pend
ing; the truth of which statement shall, in a court of record,
be veriﬁed and supported by the oath of at least three, and
before a justice, of one or more, respectable and disinterested
persons.
§ 3545. If the presiding judge, or justice, on due considera
tion, should be of opinion that the cause set forth is good and
the truth thereof evident and credibly supported, he shall al
low the change asked for.

§ 3546. The change of venue in a court of record shall be
made to the nearest adjoining county free from the like ex
ception, whether in the same judicial circuit or out of it.
Before a justice it shall be made to the nearest justice of the
peace of the same county free from like exceptions.
§ 3547. The application shall be made and the change al
lowed only in term time, except by consent of parties in
writing. '
§ 3548. The party applying for a change of venue shall, in
the foregoing cases, pay the cost of the transcript, and trans
mission of pa ers.
§ 3549. In al cases in equity, if the judge is a party, or di
rectl interested in the suit, or is connected by blood or
aﬁinity within the prohibited degrees with any person so in
terested, or is incompetent as having been of counsel, the
venue may be chan led to the nearest chancery court, as the
case may be, not lia le to the like exception, as of course, at
the instance of either party, without costs, unless the term at
which the application is made (being a trial term) the cause
shall be heard and disposed of by a judge not liable to the
like exception by exchange.
§ 3550. When a change of venue is directed, the clerk of
the court shall make a transcri t of all the minutes, orders,
and proceedings in the cause, duly certiﬁed, and envelope
the same, together with all the original papers, in a strong
wrapper, securely sealed, and safely deliver, or transmit the
same by messen er, to the clerk of the court to which the
venue has been 0 anged.
§ 3551. In all actions for libel or slander, each defendant
therein, if there be more than one at any time before the trial
of the cause and ﬁnal judgment therein, shall have the right,
upon motion made in person or by attorne , to sever, and
have the suit as to himself separately tried. he causes after
such severance shall stand against each defendant in all re
spects in the same condition as if originally instituted sepa
rately and alone against him or them.
§ 3552. Each defendant, after severance, shall be entitled to
make his defense anew upon all grounds by answer, motion,
plea, or demurrer, without regard to the proceedings in the
cause before.
§ 3553. \Vhenever a defendant, who shall avail himself of
the right to sever, as herein provided, was at the commence~
ment of the suit a resident of another county than the one
wherein the suit is pending, he shall be entitled to have the
cause as to himself removed to the county of his residence.
§ 3554. The removal shall be ordered by the court upon the
written application of the party desiring it, which shall be
presented by attorney in open court. The application shall
set forth the name of the county wherein the petitioner re
sides, and shall ask for the removal of said cause as to him
self to a like court of said county, then to he proceeded with
as it originally instituted there.
§ 3555. It ma be sworn to before any ofﬁcer authorized to
administer oaths.
§ 3556. When the order of removal has been granted and
entered of record, the clerk of the court where the cause is
pending shall make out a perfect transcript of said cause in
cluding all the process, pleadings, proof, orders and other pro
ceedings so far as the same relate to the petitioner, and
transmit the same to the court of the county of his residence,
for which the clerk shall receive the same compensation al
lowed him for transcripts for the Sn reme Court, and which
shall in all cases be paid b the etitioner.
§ 3557. If the court in which t 1e suit is pending fail or re
fuse to make the order for the transfer of the cause as afore
said upon the application of any party as herein provided,
then in such case the petitioner shall be entitled to appeal to
the Supreme Court of the State; and without a conﬁrma
tion of the action of the inferior court in refusing to transfer
said cause by the Supreme Court. all subsequent action of
such inferior court shall be absolutely null and void.
§ 3558. In an action of libel or slander brought against a
sin le defendant in acounty in which he does not reside,
suc defendant, by proceeding in the manner hereinbefore
provided, shall be entitled to have such cause transferred to
the county of his residence as in a case of severance where
he is sued jointly with others.
§ 3559. Actions do not abate by the death, marriage, or other
disability of either party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, it the cause of action survives or continues.
§ 3560. No civil action commenced, whether founded on
wrongs or contracts, except actions for wrongs affecting the
character of the plaintiff, shall abate by the death of either
party, but may be revived.
§ 3561. The intervention of a term between the death of a
party and the qualiﬁcation of a personal representative shall
not work an abatement or discontinuance of the suit; nor
shall the suit abate or discontinue for the death of either
party, until the second term after the death has been su -
gested and proved or admitted, and entry to that effect ma e
of record.
§ 3562. If no person Will administer on the estate of a de-
ceased plaintiﬁ' or defendant, the suit may be revived by or
against the heirs of the decedent.
§ 3563. If the decedent has parted with his interest pending
the suit, it may be revived by or against the successor in in
terest instead of the representative or heir.
§ 3564. Where one or more of several plaintiffs, not part
ners, dies, the person entitled to represent the decedent may
revive, by motion, at any time before the cause is tried or
abated. But, if the suit is not thus revived within the two
terms allowed, the defendant may revive or elect to proceed
to trial with the surviving plaintiﬁ, or abate the suit, if re
vivor is'necessary.
§ 3565. \Vhen any sole executor or administrator is plaintiff
or defendant, and dies, the suit may be revived by or against
the executor, administrator dc bonis non, or other successor
in the interest of the decedent.
§ 3566. No appeal or writ of error in any cause or court.
shall abate by the death of either plaintiff or defendant, but
may be revived by or against the heir, personal representa-_
tive, or assign, under the foregoing rules.
§ 3567. The action may be revived by the proper person,
entitled to the decedent’s place, by motion alone; and by the
adverse party against such proper person, by consent of that
person, on mere motion ; and without consent, by scirefacias
or notice. 
§ 3568. The scire facias or notice may be sued out in term
time or vacation, and the order to revive be made as of
course, unless good cause to the contrary be shown on the
return of the process.
§ 3569. Where a suit is commenced in the name of one per
son for the use of another, and the nominal plaintiﬁ' dies, the
suit may be prosecutedwithout a revivor, as if the death had
not happened.
§ 3570. Suit abated by the death of either party may be re
vived by or against the heir, personal representative, guard
ian or assign, as the case may be, who may be legally entitled
to the decedent’s place in the subject-matter of litigation.
§ 3571. No action in a court of law or equity by or against
a woman abates by her marriage, but may be revived by or
against her husband.
§ 3572. The husband of a female plaintiff may make him
self a party plaintiﬁ' by motion, and by giving bond with good
security to prosecute the suit with effect, or to pay the costs
of suit, as in other cases. On the execution of such bond,
the original security for the prosecution is discharged from
liability for subsequently accruing costs.
§ 3573. The suit may be revived at any time before ﬁnal
disposition thereof, against the husband of a feme defendant
by motion, with his consent, or by scire facias without con
sent.
§ 3574. No summons, writ, pleading, process, return, or
other proceeding in any civil action in any court, shall be
abated or quashed for any defect, omission, or imperfection.
§ 575. No writ of error, or other proceeding in civil actir'ms
in the Supreme Court of this State, shall be quashed or dis
missed for any defect, omission, or imperfection. '
§ 3576. All demurrers, motions in arrest of judgment, writs
of error for matters of form in civil suits, are abolished.
§ 8577. Immaterial variances, errors, omissions, or defects,
in all these cases, may be disregarded, or the court may di
rect an amendment Without costs.
§ 3578. The court may allow material amendments at any
stage of the rocecdings, upon such terms, and subject to
sun-h rules, as it may prescribe.
§ 3579. No cause shall be continued in consequence of any
amendment alowed, unless the court is satisﬁed that sub
stantial justice requires such continuance.
§ 3580. No civil suit shall be dismissed for want of necessary
parties, or on account of the form of action, or for want of
proper avcrments in the pleadings; but the courts shall have
power to change the form of action, strike out or insert in the
writ and pleadings the names of either plaintiffs or defendants,
so as to have the proper parties before the court, and to allow
all proper averments to be supplied, upon such terms as to
continuances as the court, in its sound discretion, may see
proper to impose.
§ 3581. These amendments, if applied for at the appearance
term, may be made without costs; if at any subsequent term,
upon such conditions as the court may prescribe so as to pre
vent delay.
§ 3582. These provisions shall apply to penal as well as civil
actions.
§ 3583. After judgment, any defects or imperfections in
matters of form may be rectiﬁed and amended by the court
in which the jud ment is rendered, or the court to which it
shall be removed, if substantial justice requires it, and if the
amendment is in afﬁrmaan of the judgment.
§ 3584. Any defect in entering a verdict where there are
different issues, or the verdict is not responsive to the isssues,
shall be objected to before judgment is entered, or the ob
jection will be considered as waived.
§ 8585. The Supreme Court shall not dismiss any suit for
matters of form, or for want of jurisdiction over the subjec
matter in the court in which the action was instituted, unles
exception was properly taken by demurrer to the want of
jurisdiction in t e court below.
§ 3586. In appeals from justices of the peace, the circuit
court shall supply any defect in the proceedings of the infe
rior jurisdiction, as though the suit had been commenced in
the circuit court.
§ 3587. If an ori inal process, pleading, or paper in a cause
be lost or withhe d by any person, the court may, at any
sta e of the suit, authorize its place to be supplied by a copy,
to e used instead of the original, as prescribed in Part III., Title 3, Chapter 8.
§ 3588. The circuit, chance , and Su reme courts may, at
any time within twelve mont s after nal judgment or de
cree, and While the cause is still in such courts, amend any
clerical error, mistake in the calculation of interest, or other
mistake or omission in the judgment or decree, where there
is suﬂicient matter apparent on the record, the papers in the
cause, or entries of a presiding judge to amend by.
§ 3589. Every mistake apparent on the face of the record
may be corrected by the court at any term after ﬁnal judg
ment, at the discretion of the court.
ally disposed of, and the parties are therefore not before to
the court, the party seeking the correction shall give the ad
verse party ten days’ notice of his intention to move for a
correction of the supposed mistake.
§ 3591. Justices of the peace shall have the same power to
correct the 'udgments rendered by them, that courts of rec
ord have. he party asking the correction shall give the
adverse party ﬁve days’ notice of the time and place of his
intended application to correct the judgment, and from which
judgment so corrected, either party may appeal, or stay it, as
in cases of original judgment before justices of the peace.
§ 3592. The pleadings treated of in this chapter apply to all
actions at law, and to uli legal proceedings for the redress of
civil injuries, in which pleadings are necessary, and not other
wise expre<sly prescribed.
§ 3593. All pleadings shall state only material facts, without
argument or inference, as brieﬂy as is consistent with pre
senting the matter in issue in an intelligible form.
§ 3594. If any pleading is bad for duplicity, unnecessarily
prolix, irrelevant or t'rivilous, it may be stricken out at. the
cost of the party so pleading, on motion of the adverse party,
or by the court ofits own motion.
§ 3595. It is the duty of the court to see that the rules of
pleading are substantially adhered to, and for this purpose it
is empowered to impose terms on delinquents.
§ 3596. Any pleading possessing the following requisites is
suﬂicient: '
1. When it conveys a reasonable certainty of meaning.
2. When, by a fair and natural construction, it shows a
substantial cause of action or defense.
§ 3597. If defective in the ﬁrst of the above particulars, the
court, on motion, shall direct a more speciﬁc statement; if
in the latter, it is ground of demurrer.
The common-law rule, that ever
against the pleader, is abolished by t e Code.
§ 289; 2 Head, 154.
pleading must be taken most strongly
9 Heis., 873, 3 Lea, 227; 5 Lea,
Where a plea is uncertain the court should only direct a more speciﬁc state
ment. 6 Heis., 313. See also 2 Heis., 41, 317; 2 Cold., 96; 8 Bax., 322.
§ 3598, Either party may, by leave of the court, on good
cause shown, make a supplemental pleading, alleging any
material facts which have happened or have come to his
knowledge since the ﬁling of his former pleading; nor shall
such new pleading on the part of the defendant be consid
ered a waiver of former defenses.
§ 3599. Profert shall be required as heretofore, and a demur
rer may be ﬁled for want thereof.
§ 3600. Any pleading which conforms substantially to the
forms attached to this part of the Code, is suﬁicient.
§ 3601, All pleadin s shall be endorsed by the clerk when
ﬁled with the true ate, and for want of such endorsement
may be rejected by the court on motion, unless suﬁicient
cause be shown.
§ 3602. When any civil suit is brought in any of the courts
of record in this State, whether such suit comes to such court
by summons, appeal, eertiorari or otherwise, and which is now
triable by julzy, either party desiring a jury shall in case of
original suits emand a jury in his ﬁrst pleading, tendering an
issue triable by jury.
§ 3603. In the case of all other suits the demand for a jury
shall be made within the ﬁrst three days ofﬂthe trial term,
and if no such demand is made as aforesaid, and in the man
ner and time as aforesaid, the clerk shall place such cause
on the docket, to be styled the “ non-jury docket.”
§ 3604. A failure to demand a jury as aforesaid shall be
deemed and held, conclusively, an agreement of' the parties
to submit all issues and questions of' fact to the decision of the
judge without ajury; and if such demand is made as afore
said, then the clerk shall place the cause wherein the demand
is made, upon a docket to be styled “jury docket.”
§ 3605. At any time any cause on either of said dockets may,
by consent of both parties, be changed from a jury cause to a
non-jury cause, or vice versa, and shall be docketed according
to the change.
§ 3606. The declaration shall state the plaintiff ’s cause of
action. It may contain several statements or counts. But
where several distinct causes of action against the same party
are joined, the court may direct separate trials of the issues.
§ 3607. It is sufﬁcient to state in the declaration in slander
or libel, that the defendant falsely and maliciously charged
the'f plaintiff with perjury, larceny or other crime, as the
case may be, in substance as follows, setting it out.
§ 3608. In actions upon penal bonds or other writings for
the non-performance of any covenant or a reement contained.
therein, the plaintiff may assign as many breaches as he may
deem proper; and verdict and judgment may be rendered
for such of the breaches as he may prove; or, if judgment
be rendered for the plaintiff on demurrer or by default, a writ
of inquiry of damages shall be awarded.
§ 3609. Successive actions may be maintained on the same
contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a.
new cause of action arises therefrom.
§ 3610. In actions for the conversion or detention of per
sonal property, it is sufﬁcient to' state in the declaration the
kind of property, that it belongs to the plaintiff, and has
been detained by the defendant, or converted to his use.
§ 3611. N0 plea in abatement shall be received in any court,
unless its truth is veriﬁed by the oath of the party or other
wrse. 
§ 3612. Actions may be abated by plea of the defendant in
the following cases:
1. Where the process is issued or served on Sunday, ex
cept in the cases prescribed in section 3529.
2. \Vhere the process is served upon the defendant while
attending his duty at a muster of militia, or election, or as
witness orjuror.
3. Where suits, local in their nature, are brought in a dif
ferent county from that required by law.
4. Where the plaintiff and defendant both reside, at the
time suit is brought, in the same county, and the action is in
stituted in another county.
5. Where the defendant is the joint drawer of negotiable
paper with others, and the original writ is not served upon
any one of the joint drawers.
§ 3613. But this enumeration is not intended to exclude
any cause of abatement now recognized by law.
§ 3614. The provisions of the foregoin section shall not
appply so as to affect any rights or remedles againstabscond
ing debtors under the attachment laws.
§ 3615, The defendant may demur to the plaintiﬁ ’s declara
tion, as hereinafter provided, or he may answer by plea.
§ 3616. A plea shall, in all cases, contain a succinct state
ment of the facts relied on as a defense to the action, except
in the cases provided for in sections 3623-3625.
§ 3617. The defendant may plead as many pleas as he has
real grounds of defense.
§ 3618. The fact whether a plea is in bar or abatement, is
ascertained by the subject-matter.
§ 3619. All pleas which deny the execution or assignment
by the defendant, his agent, attorney, or partner, of any in
strument in writing, the foundation of the suit, whether ro
duced or alleged to be lost or destroyed, and all pleas srnce
the last continuance, shall be sworn to.
§ 3620. All allegations in‘the declaration, not denied in the
plea, shall be taken as true for all the purposes of that issue.
§ 3621. Where the plea is required to be sworn to, if the
defendant cannot admit or deny the fact for want of sufﬁ
cient knowledge,'he may state his want of knowledve, and
thereupon make the denial necessary to present the defense.
§ 3622. A plea since the last continuance is not a waiver of
other pleas to the merits previously pleaded.
§ 3623. The defendant may enter a general denial of the
plaintiff’s cause of action, equivalent to the general issue
eretofore in use.
§ 3624. He may plead such general plea, whether such plea
would have been good heretofore or not.
§ 3625. But whenever such general plea is ﬁled, the defend
ant shall, unless notice is waived, give notice of all his real
defenses, whether by way of denial or avoidance, thou h
such defense might have been admissible heretofore un er
the general issue. And no matter of defense, of which
notice is not given, shall be given in evidence or relied on.
Such notice shall state such defenses separately, and if the
same are not stated clearly, or are double or insufﬁcient, they
may be struck out on motion.
§ 3626, Or he may plead specially his defenses, in which case
he shall state the facts relied on, truly and brieﬂ as may be,
and no matter of defense not pleaded shall be s own in evi
dence; and to such special plea the plaintiff shall reply, and
the pleadings shall proceed to issue as heretofore.
§ 3627. It shall not be necessary for parties to plead in ac
cordance with the foregoing sections, but they shall have
their option to plead as prescribed herein, or according to the
laws enforced on the subject of pleading at the time of the
adoption of the Code of 1858.
§ 628. The defendant may plead by way of set-off or cross
aetion: '
1_. Mutual demands held by the defendant against the
plaintiff at the time of action brought, and matured when
offered in set-off.
2. Any matter arising out of the plaintiff’s demand, and
for which the defendant would be entitled to recover in a
cross-action.
3. Any matter growing out of the original consideration
of any written instrument, for which the defendant would be
entitled to recover in a cross-action. I
4. Any equities between the defendant and the original
party under whom the plaintiﬁ claims, which by law have at
tached to the demand in the plaintiff’s hands, and for which
the defendant would be entitled to a recovery against such
original party. _
§ 3629. Mutual debts, though of a diﬁ‘erent nature, between
the parties to a suit, or between the testator or intestate of
both or either party, may be set off against each other by be
ing leaded in bar, or in dischar e of the action, either
whol y or in part, as the case may e. And if either debt
arose by reason of a penalty, the sum intended to be set off
shall be leaded in bar, setting forth what is justly due on
either side
§ 3630. A maker or surety, when sued alone, may, with the
consent of his co-maker or principal, avail himself, by way
of set-oﬁ', of any of the foregoing debts or demands, held
by such co-maker or principal against the plaintiff at the
commencement of the action, and matured when oﬁered in
set-oﬁ'.
§ 3631. But the plaintiff may meet such set-oﬁ in the same
way as if made by the co-maker or rincipal himself.
§ 3632. If the debt or demand so 0 'ered to be set oﬁ'exceed
the amount of the plaintiff’s demand, such excess being
found by the jury, judgment shall be rendered against the
plaintiff in favor of the defendant for such excess, and all
costs. 
§ 3633. When there are several defendants, the verdict and
judgment, whether the pleadings by them are joint or sev
eral, shall be moulded according to the facts, and to meet the
exigencies of the case.
§ 3634. If the matters in issue upon the pleadings are of
complicated account, the court may direct a reference to the
clerk, or a special commissioner, as in the court of chancery,
allowing a trial byjury of any matters of fact arising upon
such account, as in chancery cases.
§ 3635. Judgments of the same court may be set off against
each other on motion.
§ 8636. A plea of tender of money, or of a thing in action,
shall be accompanied by a delivery of the money or thing in
action to the clerk of the court.
§ 3637. If the tender be of other personal property, the
plea shall aver a readiness to deliver it to the plaintiff, and
judgment for the defendant upon the plea, vests the title to
the thing tendered in the plaintiff, subject to any claim the
defendant may have for his trouble in keeping it.
§ 3638. When the plea contains new matter by way of avoid
ance or set-off, the plaintiﬁ shall reply thereto by demurrer
or otherwise; and like proceedings may, if necessary, be con
tinued by way of rejoinder or further pleadings until issue is
'oined. .
§ 3639. Matters not denied in each subsequent pleading
shall be taken as admitted, as in case of pleas.
§ 3640. The general replication is, “the plaintiff joins issue
on the plea.”
§ 3641. A special replication, like the plea, is a brief statement,
in plain, intelligible language, of the facts relied on as
an answer to the plea.
§ 3642. By leave of the court, for causes shown, the de-
fendant may ﬁle more than one replication.
§ 3643. The rules of this chapter in relation to pleas and
replications, apply to all subsequent pleadings.
§ 3644. Demurrers for formal defects are abolished, and
those only for substantial defects are allowed. All demurrers
shall state the objection relied on.
§ 3645. Either before or after judgment on demurrer, the
court may permit an amendment of the leadings, which
amendment shall not delay the trial unless t e court is satis
ﬁed that substantial justice requires a continuance.
§ 3646. The party against whom a judgment on demurrer
is rendered, may plead over as a matter of right, without
waiving his privilege of assigniu the judgment on demurrer
as error in an appellate court, unisss he has subsequently had
the beneﬁt secured by the demurrer, upon the trial of other
equivalent issues.
§ 3647. If such party fails to plead over, a writ of inquiry,
if necessary to ascertain the damages, will issue immediately,
and be executed the same term.
§ 8648. If, in the opinion of the court, a demurrer is inter-
posed without cause, terms may be imposed, not exceeding
the costs of the action.
§ 3649. The following forms of declaration may be used:
' No. 1. Endorses against acceptor of bill of exchange .
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. and says that sum is due him on a bill of exchange,
C. D. here to the court shown, drawn by E. F. on the —
day of , 18—, (at' , if a foreign bill,) upon the defend
ant (at ,) and accepted by him, payable to one G. H., on
the — day of , 18—,-and by him and one J. K. endorsed
to the plaintiﬁ. The said bill not being paid at maturity,
was duly protested for non-payment, and the amount thereof,
with interest and protest fees, is unpaid. L.
M., Attorney for Plaintiff.
o. 2. Endorsee against cndorser.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. and says that sum is due him on a bill of exchange,
C. D. here to the court shown, drawn by E. F. on the
-da of , 18—, at upon G. A. at for
dollars, in favor of I. J ., and by him and the defendant en
dorsed to the laiutiﬁ'. The bill not being accepted, when
presented for t at purpose, was duly rotested for non-accept
ance, of-which the defendant had ue notice; (or, the bill
was accepted and presented on the day of 18—,
when it matured, to the acce tor for payment, which, being
refused, it was duly protestedJ therefor, of which the defend
ant had due notice; or as the case may be.) The bill, with
damages and interest, is unpaid.
L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff.
No. 3. Endorses against drawer.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
us. which he says is due him on a bill of exchange here
C. D. to the court shown, drawn by the defendant on the
ay of —, 18—, at , on E. F. at
the payment of dollars to G. H. on the day of
18—, b whom the bill was endorsed to the plaintiff, and the
said bil not bein paid at maturity, (or not being accepted,
as the case may e,) was duly rotested, of which the de
fendant had due notice. The hi 1, with the damages and in
terest due thereon, remains unpaid.
L. M., Attorney for Plaintiﬂ.
No. 4. Payee against maker promissory note.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. due by romissory note, here to the court shown,
C. D. made by im on the da of , 18—, and pay
able t e — day of , 18—, wit interest thereon, which
remains unpaid.
L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff.
No. 5. Obligee against obligor, on bill single.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, due
vs. by bond, here to the court shown, executed by him on
0. D. the da of —, 18—, payable on the day
of _d—--, 18—, with interest due thereon, which remains un
pai .
L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff.
N0. 6. Assignee against maker of bill single.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant on a bond executed
vs. by him, and here to the court shown, on the day
C. D. of , 18—, payable on the — day of , 18—,
to one E F, and by him assigned (or endorsed) to the plaintiff,
the amount of which bond, with interest, remains unpaid.
L. M., Attorney for Plaintiﬁ.
No. 7. Holder against drawer and endorsers.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendants
vs. On a bill of exchange (bond or note
C. ‘D., E. F., & G. H. as the case may be) drawn by de
fendant C. D., and here to the court shOWn, 0n the day
of , 18—, at , on I. J. at , and made payable on
the day of , 18—, to defendant E. F., and by him
and the defendant, G. H., endorsed to the plaintiff. The bill
was accepted, but, when resented for payment at maturity,
was not paid, and was t ereupon duly protested, of which
the defendants had notice. The bill with damages and inter
est due thereon, remains unpaid.
L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff.
No. 8. On an account or verbal contract.
A. B. The plaintiff (for the‘use of E F, as the case may
vs. be) sues the defendant for dollars, which he
C. D. says is due from him on the — day of , 18—‘-. by
account; or for money loaned by the plaintiff to the defend
ant, on the — da of , 18—, or on an account stated be
tween the plaintiﬁ' and defendant on the -— day of ,
18—; or for goods, wares and merchandise (or speciﬁc arti
cles, as the case may be), sold by the plaintiff to the defendant
on the— da of , 18—; or for money paid by the plain
tiﬂ' for the efendant, at his-re nest; or for work and labor
done for the defendant by the p aintiﬂ', at his request, on the
— day of , 18—; which several sums of money, (or
which sum of money,) with interest thereon, are now due
(or is due . L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff.
N. B. hese several causes of action may be joined to
gether as the common counts have heretofore been joined.
A declaration on a contract, not under seal and not negotiable. must aver a
consideration. 9 Yer., 26; 8 Hum., 297; 5 Hum. 56; 5 Yer., 435; 2 Yer-, 50.
A defective statement of consideration, which would be bad on demurrer, may
be cured b verdict, so that it cannot be taken advantage of in arrest of judg
ment. 8 um., 297; 2 Tenn.,205, 207.
When it is necessary to aver consideration it will not do to rely upon the im
plied force of the word “ agreement." 9 Yer., 52.
No. 9. For chattels, and damages-for their use.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for the following
us. horses, the property of the plaintiff, (or other per
C. D. sonal property, as the case may be, describing it suc
cinctly,) with the value of the hire or use thereof, during the
detention, viz.: from the day of , 18—, to the
day of , 18—.
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiﬁ.
No. 10. On an independent covenant or agreement.
A. B} The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. damages for the breach of a covenant (or a reement, as
C. D. the case may be,) entered into by him on t e day
of , 18—, and here to the court shown, by which he
agreed (here set out the contract or agreement, and the breach
complained of.) L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff.
If a demand is necessary to entitle the plaintiff to his action,
it must be averred.
Before the Code, see 3 Yer., 461-8; 10 Hum.,ll94; 2 Yer., 127; 4 Hum., 32;
2 Sneed, 484; 4 Sneed, 583.
No. 11. On a dependent covenant or agreement.
A B l The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. for the breach of a covenant here to the court shown,
C. D. (contract or agreement), entered into by him on the
ay of , 18—, in substance as follows: (here insert
a copy, or according to its legal effect); yet, although the
glaintiﬁ‘ has complied with all its provisions on his part, the
efendant has failed to compl with the following provisions
thereof, viz: (here set out distinctly the matter, or several
matters, complained of).
L. M., Attorney for Plaintiff.
See 2 Les, 543; 7 Bax., 698; 1 Lea, 534; 3 Lea, 126; 1 Head, 153; 8 Hum.,
§ 648; 2 Sneed, 708; 3 Sneed, 432; 2 Heis., 508.
No. 12. ()n bonds with condition.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. for the breach of the condition of a bond (or a ree
O. D. ment), here to the court shown, made by the de end
ant on the day of , 18—, and payable to the plaintiff,
in the sum of dollars, with condition, here state the
condition concisely). And the plaintiff sa s t e condition of
said bond has been broken by the defen ant in this: (here
state concisely and distinctly the breach or breaches com
lained of ﬁrst, second, etc.,) whereby the plaintiﬁ‘ has been
amaged as above. L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
See 9 Yer., 20.
No. 13. Against a common carrier.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. }as damages for the failure to deliver certain goods,
0. D. Y (or within the time stipulated, or within a reasona
ble time, or in good condition, or as the case may be,) viz.:
(here describe succinctly the goods, received by him 'as a
common carrier, to be delivered to t e plaintiff at for a
reward, which he failed to do, (or by the time stipulated, or
within a reasonable time, or damaged, as the case may be.)
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
N0. 14. Deceit in sale of chattels.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. as damages for a deceit in the sale of a horse, which
C. D. the defendant sold to the plaintiﬁ, and at the time
knew to be unsound.
44
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No; 15. On a warranty. The
plaintiff sues the defendant for
A. B. dollars,
vs. as damages for a breach of warranty in a bill of sale,
0. D. here shown to the court, of a horse, by him sold
to the plaintiff on the day of , 18—, and warranted
to be sound, when, in fact, the said horse was, at the time of
the sale and warranty, unsound (the warranty and breach to
be stated, according to the facts).
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
N0 16. On a policy of insurance.
A.B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. the value of certain goods, which the defendant, on
C. D. the da of , 18—, insured against loss
or injury by perils o navigation, and other perils in the policy
mentioned, from -— to —, in this State, on board the
steamboat , which goods were wholly lost by the sink
ing of said steamboat on her voyage, of which the defend
ant had due notice.
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 17. For the conversion of chattels.
A.B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for
vs. damages for the conversion by him, on the day
C. D. of , 18—, of the following chattels, (describing
them,) the property of the plaintiﬁ'.
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
N0. 18. For trespass in taking goods.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, as
vs. dama es for wrongfully takin the following goods
C. D. and c attels, the property of t e plaintiﬁ', viz.: (here
state the goods, etc.) ,
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiﬁ'.
No. 19. For false imprisonment.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars, as
vs. damages for maliciously and illegally arresting and
C. D. im risoning him, or causing him to be arrested and
days, from the — day of , 18—.
imprisone for
dollars, as
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiﬁ'.
The plaintiff cannot under a declaration for false imprisonment recover on
evidence showing malicious prosecution. 9 Les, 152.
N0. 20. Verbal slander.
A. B. The plaintiﬁ sues the defendant for dollars, as
vs. damages for falsely and maliciously charging the
C. D. plaintiff with 1perjury, (larceny, or other crime, as the
case may be,) by spea ing of and concerning him in the pres
ence of divers persons, on the day of —, 18—, and at
divers other times, in substance as follows: here set out the
defamatory language.)
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 21. Libel.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars
, vs. damages for falsely and maliciously publishing of
C. D. and concerning him in a newspaper published, etc.,
called, etc., (or book, or writing, or as the case may be), the
following false and defamatory matter, with intent to defame
the plaintiff, viz: (here set out the language charged as libel
lous), on the day of , 1_8—.
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 22. Fov~ the recovery of land.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant to recover an un
vs. }divided moiety (or third or other interest, as the case
C. D. may be) in the followin tract of land, (or the posses
sion, as the case may be), of w ich he was possessed, claim
ing in fee, (or for years, etc.,) before the commencement of
this suit. and after such possession accrued, the defendant, on
the do. of , 18—, entered thereupon, and unlaw
fully withholds and detains the same, together with dol
lars, due for the detention thereof.
No. 23. For trespass to land.
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
A. B. The plaintiﬂ’ sues the defendant for — dollars,
vs. as damages for a trespass by the defendant, on the
C. D. day of , 18—, and on divers other days and
times, on the following tract of land, belonging to (or in the
possession of) the plaintiff, (describing it,) and for cutting
the timber, treading down the grass, etc., (setting forth any
other facts in aggravation.)
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 24. For rent on demise.
A. B. The plaintiﬂ' sues the defendant for dollars,
vs. the rent of a tract of land, (describing it,) leased by
C. D. the plaintiﬁ to the defendant, on the -— day of—
18—, the rent then commencing, and ending on the — day
of , 18—. L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
No. 25. For use and occupation of land.
A. B. The plaintiff sues the defendant for dollars,
us. for the use and occupation by him of the following
0. D. tract of land belonging to the plaintiff, (describing
it,) from the
18—.
day of , 18—, to the day of ,
L. M., Attorney for the Plaintiff.
§ 650. The following forms of pleas may be used:
No. 1. Non est factum.
A. B., Plaintiff, The defendant for plea says that the
vs. note (bond or other instrument) upon
0. D., Defendant, which the plaintiff ’s action is founded,
was not executed by him, or by any one authorized, to bind
E. F., Attorney for Defendant.
And defendant makes oath that the above plea is true. If
ﬁled by an executor or administrator, that he believes it to
be true). Sworn to and subscribed before me.
No. 2. Not guilty.
A. B. The defendant for plea says he is not guilty of the
vs. matters in the plaintiff ’s declaration alleged.
C. D. E. R, Attorney for Defendant.
No. 3. General issue or denial.
A. B. The defendant for plea says he did not promise,
vs.
C. D.
(undertake, a ree, covenant or as the case may be,)
as the plainti ‘ hath in his declaration alleged.
No. 4. Payment. A.
B. The defendant for plea says he paid the debt or de
vs. mand, for the recovery of which the suit is brought,
0. D. before the action was commenced.
No. 5. Statute of limitations.
A. B. _The defendant for plea says that plaintiff’s action
vs. accrued more than years before suit brought.
C. D.
No. 6. Infancy.
A. B. The defendant for plea says that at the time of the
us. execution of the note on which the suit is brought,
0. D. (or at the time the cause of action accrued, or as the
case may be,) he was a minor, under the age of twenty-one
years.
No. 7. Usury.
A. B. The defendant for plea says that the note, (bond
vs. or contract,) upon which the action is founded, is
C. D. usurious to the extent of dollars, part thereof.
No. 8. Set-of.
A. B. The defendant for plea says that at the time the
t8 plaintiff’s action was commenced, the plaintiff was
0. D. J indebted to him in the sum of dollars, by note,
dated day of , 18—, and due — day of 18—,‘
Saccount, bond, or as the case may be and describing it by
ate, amount, and when and to whom payable), which he
hereby offers to set off against the plaintiff ’s demand, (and
he claims judgment for the residue, as the case may be).
No. 9. Tender.
A. B. The defendant for plea says that before action was
vs. commenced, he tendered to the plaintiff the amount
C. D. due him, to-wit, dollars, and now brings the
money into court, (or, he tendered the articles sued for, and
has always been ready and willing to perform his contract
with the plaintiff, or as the case may be.)
§ 3651. Any cause may be continued b consent of both
parties, or on sufﬁcient cause shown by a davit.
§ 3652. The court, in granting continuances, may impose
terms upon the party at whose instance the cause has been
continued, by making him pay costs or otherwise, as may
best further the progress of the cause and the ends of justice.
§ 3653. If a continuance is granted on payment of costs,
the court shall enter judgment and award execution for such
costs.
§ 3654. The marriage or death of a party shall not prevent
a trial at the term at which the cause is revived.
§ 3655. The clerk of each court shall enter causes upon‘his
trial-docket in the order in which they become ready for trial,
giving the cause ﬁrst ready for trial, either by due course of
aw or consent of parties, priority of position on the docket.
§ 3656. If a number of causes become read for trial at the
same time, they shall be entered on the doc et in the order
of their commencement.
_3657, Causes thus docketed should be, tried and disposed
of in their order, unless the parties consent to a different ar
rangement. -
§ 3658. The judge of any of the courts of law or equity of this
State shall appoint any time which he may deem proper, for
the trial of an and all civil causes on the dockets of his court,
in which the tate is a party in interest, whether the State is
directly a party to the same, or in an other way.
§ 3659 Such causes may be so speci cally set for trial, with
out referencc to their relative ositions 0n the dockets; the
object being to authorize the ju ge to give precedence to such
causes in 1118 discretion.
§ 3660. It shall be the duty of the several courts of this
State to advance upon their dockets causes which may at any
time be pending therein, the decision of which shall directly
involve questions concerning the public revenues, whether of
the State, counties or incorporated towns or cities, or ques
tions concerning the. boundaries of counties, towns or clties,
or <Huestions concerning public oﬂicers as to their eli ibility,
ua iﬁcations or appointment, or their lawful functions, so
t at such cause may be heard and determined with the least
delay consistent with the proper investigation of such causes
upon their merits.
§ 3661. The court may, in its discretion, direct the clerk to
apportion the causes for as many days of the term as may be
deemed necessar for their trial and disposition, but such ap
portionment sha 1 not affect the priority given by the last sec
tion.
§ 3662. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the courts to
kee two trial dockets, styled. respectively “ Non-jury
Doc et” and “Jury Docket,” upon which he shall place the
cases respectively which are to be tried without or with a
ur .
J 3663. In trial of civil cases, as provided for in this article,
the judges of the courts aforesaid shall have the option to try
“ non-jury” causes either before or after “jury” causes.
While the “non-jur ” causes are being tried no jury shall
be in attendance on t 1e court.
§ 3664. The clerks of the several courts of this State shall
not change the style of any cause, or papers in the same,
without permission of the chancellor or judge presiding, after
the same has been docketed.
§ 3665. The rules of practice of the chancery court, as pre
scribed in Cha ter 3, of Title 10, of this part of the Code,
will apply to all cases in equity, or in the nature of equity, in
all thejudicial tribunals of this State, unless otherwise ex
pressly provided.
§ 3666. So, also, the rules of practice in the circuit court, as
prescribed in Chapter 3, of Title 8, of this part of the Code,
all apply to all cases at law in all judicial tribunals of this
State, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 3667. If the defendant fail to appear and defend at the
time prescribed by law, judgment by default may be taken
against him.
§ 3668. In such case, the judgment is ﬁnal if the amount of
the plaintiff’s claim can be ascertained by simple calcula
tion from the papers; when the amount cannot be thus read
ily ascertained, the damages will be assessed by a jury em
paneled at the same term for the purpose
§ 3669. Issues of law made by the pleadings are heard and
determined by the court in all civil actions at law or in equity
and stand for argument at the ﬁrst term.
§ 3670. Upon the decision of a demurrer, if the unsuccessful
party fail to amend or plead over, writ of inquiry may be
awarded, or judgment rendered, at the same term.
§ 3671. Issues of fact in all equity causes are heard and de
termined by the court, unless a jury is demanded by one of
the parties under the provisions of this Code.
§ 3672. On the trial of civil cases in the courts of this State,
it shall be the duty of the judge before whom the same is tried,
at the request of either party, plaintiﬁ or defendant, to reduce
every word of his charge to writing before it is delivered to
the jury, and all subsequent instructions which may be asked
for by the jury, or which may be given by the jud e, shall,
in like manner, be reduced to writing, before being elivered
to the jury. ‘
§ 3673. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the court,
the decision, if requested by either party, shall be given in
writing, stating the facts found and the conclusions thereon,
which shall constitute a part of the record.
§ 3674. Pendin the trial of any cause in any court of this
State, at interva s in which jurors are being summoned, or
the prOgress of the tria is otherwise delayed, the court may
proceed with the other business of the court, but so as not
to delay the cause on trial.
§ 3675. In all civil causes, before the jury is sworn, the clerk
shall call over the names of the jury in the panel, in the
presence and hearing of the parties and their counsel.
§ 3676. If, after the jury is empaneled. and before verdict,
a juror becomes sick or otherwise disabled, so as to be unable
to perform his duty, he may be discharged by the court; and,
in such case, unless otherwise arranged by the parties, the
vacancy may be ﬁlled, and the trial commenced anew, or the
court may, in its discretion, order the jury to be discharged
and a new one empaneled. .
§ 3677. In case of the disability of a juror or jurors, under
the foregoing section, the cause may be tried and deter
mined, by consent of parties, by the remaining jurors.
§ 3678. The plaintiff may, at any time before the jury re
tires, take a non-suit, or dismiss his action, as to any one or
more defendants, but if the defendant has pleaded a set-off
or counter claim, he may elect to proceed on such counter
claim in the capacity of a plaintiff.
§ 3679. The defendant may, in like manner, withdraw his
counter claim at any time before the jury retires to consider
of their verdict.
§ 3680. If the trial is by the court instead of the jury, the
non-suit or dismissal provided for in the last two sections,
shall be made before the cause is ﬁnally submitted to the
court, and not afterwards.
§ 3681. Instructions to the jury, asked for by either party,
may be required by the court to be ﬁrst committed to writin .
§ 3682. The truth of the case being fairly stated in the bﬁl
of exceptions, the judge shall sign the same, which there
upon becomes a part of the record of the cause.
§ 3683. If any counts in a declaration are good, a verdict for
entire damages shall be applied to such good counts.
§ 3684. The wordjudgment is usually applied to a determi
nation of the rights of the parties in an action at law, and
the word decree to a similar determination in equity; but
the words are interchangeable in this Code, each embracing
both classes of determination, unless limited expressly or by
the context.
§ 8685. A judgment or decree may be interlocutory or‘ﬁnal,
to be determined by the subject matter and substantial pur
- port thereof.
§ 3686. Judgments may be given for or against one or more
of several plaintiffs, or for or against one or more of several
defendants. 
§ 3687. In such case the verdict shall (be as the ri ht may
appear, and shall state separately any amount allowed to any
0 the parties.
§ 3688. Such and so many judgments, joint, separate and
cross, may be rendered as may be necessary to the rights of
the parties; or one amount may be set off a ainst another,
and judgment rendered for the residue; or juggment may be
rendere for the defendant against the plaintiff for any
amolunt or balance for which it is found that the plaintiff is
liab e. 
§ 3689. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintiff
may claim and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto,
any rate of damages which he might have heretofore recov
ered in an form of action for the same cause.
§ 3690. n actions brought on bonds or agreements for the
payment of money, or with collateral conditions, and re
covery had by the plaintiff, the judgment shall be entered
for the stipulated penalty, to be discharged by the payment of
the principal and interest due thereon, or the damages as
sessed by the jury, and execution shall issue accordingly.
§ 3691. Any person indebted to another in any way may go,
with the evidence of the debt or a statement of the cause of
indebtedness in writing, before any 'ustice of the peace, or
into an court having jurisdiction of] the amount, and con
gess ju gment in favor of the creditor for the amount then
ue.
§ 3692. So, also, if the debtor at the time the debt was con
tracted, or afterwards, authorize any person in writing to
confess judgment in any court of record, or before any jus
tice of the peace, for the amount of such debt, the person
authorized may, after the debt ,becomes due, 0 before any
justice of the peace, or into any court having jurisdiction of
the amount, and confess judgment in favor of the creditor
for the amount then due. '
§ 3693. The written evidence of the debt shall be ﬁled and
constitute a part of the record of the cause, and no appeal or
writ of error shall be granted from such jud ment; and no
more costs shall be taxed than the clerk’s fee or entering the
judgment and issuing execution, if execution be issued.
§ 3694. Judgments and decrees obtained in any court of
record of this State in the county where the debtor resides at
the time of rendition, shall be a lien upon the debtor’s land
from the time the same were rendered.
§ 3695. If rendered in any other county than that in which
the debtor resides, _the lien shall take effect only from the
time when a certiﬁed copy of the jud ment or decree shall be
re 'stered in the count where the ebtor resides, if he re
si es in the State, ori not, then in the county where the
land lies.
§ 3696. The lien thus given will be lost, unless an execution
is taken out and the land sold within twelve months after the
rendition of thejudg'ment or decree.
§ 3697. If the sale within the twelve months is prevented by
injunction, writ of error, appeal in the nature of a writ of
error, or other adverse proceeding in court, the lien will be
continued, provided the creditor shall issue execution and sell
the land within one year after the injunction is dissolved, the
judgncilent or decree afﬁrmed, or adverse legal proceeding dis
misse .
§ 3698. A jud ment or decree shall not bind the equitable
interest of the debtor in real estate or other property, unless
within sixty days from its rendition a memorandum of the
judgment or decree, stating the amount and date thereof,
with the names of the parties, is registered in the register’s
ofﬁce of the count where the real estate is situated.
§ 3699. Nor shal an execution thereon bind the debtor’s
legal or equitable interest in stock, choses in action, or other
personal property, not liable at law, unless a similar memorandum
is registered within the same eriod of sixty days, in
the county where the debtor resides, if he lives in the State,
or if not, then in the county where the pro erty is.
§ 3700. And, in both cases, the lien shaii cease, unless a
bill in equity to subject said interest is ﬁled within thirty
days from the return of the execution unsatisﬁed.
§ 3701. It shall not be necessary to issue a scire faeius to re
vive judgments or decrees which have lain a year and a day
without the issuance of an execution, but execution may be
sued out, in such case, after the year and day, as if issued
within that time. '
§ 3702. If there are more defendants than 'one, and any of
them die, leavipfg the co-defendaut or co-defendants surviv
ing. the plainti may proceed by execution against the sur
vivor, or revive by sci're facias against any portion or all of
the personal representatives of the deceased, to be issued to
any count in the State. .
§ 3703. he provisions of the last two sections shall apply
to jaistices’ judgments as well as to judgments of courts of re
cor .
§ 3704. Judgments may be revived by or against the heirs
of a deceased plaintiﬁ' or defendant, in the same manner, and
under the same circumstances as pendin suits are now re
vived under section 3562 of the Code of ennessee.
§ 3705. In all cases where execution from a court of record
or a justice of the peace is returned satisﬁed in whole or part
by the sale of re erty of the defendant, and the plaintiﬁ'in
the 'udgment shal be of the opinion that he obtained no title
to t e property so_ sold, he may have the satisfaction of said
judgment set aside, and the judgment or decree revived by
scire facias. '
§ 3706. The scire faclas may be obtained on aﬂidavit of the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, setting forth the facts of the
sale and want of title to the property so sold, and shall be
served, returned and heard together, with proof upon the
question of title, as in other cases.
§ 3707. If it shall appear at the trial that the defendant’s title to the property at the time of the urchase was good
and valid, the proceedings shall be dismissed with costs, as
in other cases.
§ 3708. The provisions of these two sections shall apply to
judgments and decrees for costs, upon afﬁdavit of any party
interested in the costs.
§ 3709. And in case the sheriff or other ofﬁcer making the
sale shall not have taken any bond of indemnity, and the de
fendant in the execution shall proceed against him and re
cover judgment, he shall be substituted to the rights of the
plaintiff under the two foregoing sections.
§ 3710. Whenever a judgment by motion, or action at law,
is bad against a sheriff, coroner, 0r constable, and his oﬁicial
sureties. for a failure of duty in and about an execution, and
the amount of such judgment has been paid by the sureties,
the sureties are entitled, at their cost and risk, to issue an ex
ecution for their beneﬁt on the original judgment about
which the recovery was had.
§ 3711. The clerk or justice of the peace shall, in such case,
endorse upon the execution at whose instance it is sued out,
and take from such persons, bond with security in a sufﬁ
cient amount for the costs and damages which may accrue.
§ 3712. In the same way, in all cases in which property, real
or personal, is recovered from the purchaser at execution or
master’s sale, by the defendant, his heirs or representatives,
or by third persons, the court rendering the judgment, or
making the sale, may, in its discretion, upon application of
such purchaser, and scire facias sued out, set aside the satis
faction entered, and revive the original judgment or decree
for the beneﬁt of the said purchaser.
§ 3713. If a judgment or decree be that the party recover
or be put in possession of the speciﬁc propert ', real or per
sonal, the court may carry the same into e ect by writ of
possession, or other process sufﬁcient for the purpose.
§ 3714. All judgments and decrees of any of the judicial
tribunals of this State, for money. may be enforced by exe
cutlon.
§ 3715. Executions issue against the goods and chattels,
lands and tenements of the defendant.
§ 3716. The party in whose favor a judgment or decree is
rendered against a corporation, ma sue out a distringas or
ﬁeri facias, to be levied as well on tllie choses in action as on
the goods, chattels, lands, and tenements of the corporation;
and in case of a levy on choses in action, the court may ap
point a receiver to collect the same.
§ 3717. Court executions are tested of the ﬁrst day of the
term next before the date of issuance ; justices’ executions of
the day of issuance.

§ 3718. The clerks of the several courts shall issue execu
tions in favor of the successful party, on all judgments ren
dered at any term, as soon after the adjournment of the court
as practicable, and within the time prescribed by this Code,
without any demand of the party.
§ 3719. Clerks of the Supreme Court shall issue executions
within sixt days after the adjournment of each term.
§ 3720. The clerk of the circuit and chancery courts shall
issue writs of execution and possession when the court con
tinues in session less than two weeks, within thirty days;
when more than two weeks, within forty days thereafter;
and when the court shall continue in session more than four
weeks, the clerk may issue execution in any case at any time
after thirty days after judgmenttherein.
§ 3721. The clerks of the county courts, when the court
continues in session less than one week, within ten days
thereafter; when more than one week, within twenty days.
§ 3722. The clerks of all other courts within the time pre
scribed for the clerks of the circuit courts.
§ 3723. After the adjournment of the court, and before the
expiration of the time prescribed by the preceding sections,
the clerk shall issue execution without delay, upon afﬁdavit
made and ﬁled in his ofﬁce, that the defendant is about
fraudulently to dispose of, conceal, or remove his property, to
the endangering of the plaintiff’s debt.
§ 3724. Upon the rendition of judgment or decree, execu
tion may be issued, by leave of the court, before the adjourn
ment thereof, the plaintiff, his agent or attorney showing
suﬂicient cause by aﬂidavit.
§ 3725. In like manner, justices of the peace may, immedi
ately afterjudgment and before the expiration of the time
allowed by law for the stay of execution, issue execution on
good cause shown by aﬁidavit; and afﬁdavit by the plaintiff,
is agent or attorney, as prescribed in the section next before
the last, will be good cause within the meaning of this pro
VlSlOD.
§ 3726. The issuance of execution under the provisions of
the two precedin sections, will not deprive the defendant of
any right he won d otherwise have had.
§ 3727. In all other cases than all those hereinbefore pro
vided for, the clerk or justice, as the case ma be, shall issue
to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, on eniand, an exe
cution on any judgment or decree to which the plaintiff is
entitled. 
§ 3728. Any clerk or justice who fails or refuses to issue
execution as prescribed in the preceding section, forfeits ﬁve
hundred dollars, to be recovere by action, and is liable to the
party aggrieved in damages, and is also guilty of a misde
meanor in ofﬁce, for which, upon conviction, he shall be re
moved from oﬁice. - a
§ 3729. The clerk, or justice, as the case may he, shall en~
dorse _on the execution, when issued, the date and amount of
the judgment, and the items of the bill of costs, written in
words, and the amounts distinctly stated in ﬁgures, and the
date of issuance.
§ 730. He shall also enter upon the execution docket the
date of the issuance of such execution, and to what county
and oﬂicer issued; the return of the ofﬁcer, with the date of
such return; the dates and amounts of all moneys received
into or aid out of the oﬁice thereon; the entries to be made
at the time of the issuance, receipt or payment, as the case
may be.
§ 3731. The clerk or justice ne lecting the provisions of
the two preceding sections, is liabfe to a penalty of one hun
dred and twenty-ﬁve dollars, to be recovered by action, one
half to the informer, the other half to the State; to dama es
at the suit of the party aggrieved; and is also guilty 0 a
misdemeanor in ofﬁce, for which, on conviction, he shall be
removed from oﬂice.
§ 3732. The ofﬁcer to whom an execution is legal] issued
shall, in like manner, endorse thereon the day on w ich he 0
received it, any levy, sale, or other act done by virtue there
of, with the date, and the dates and amounts of any receipts
or payments in satisfaction thereof, the endorsements to be
made at the time of the receipt or act done; and any oﬁicer
who fails or neglects to comply with the provisions hereof
forfeits one hundred and twenty-ﬁve dollars to any person
who will sue therefor, and is also guilty of a misdemeanor
in ofﬁce, for which, on conviction, he may be removed from
oﬁice.
§ 3733. No alias or pluries execution shall issue until the
previous execution is returned, or satisfactorily accounted
for, by atﬁdavit.
§ 3734. All executions issuin from the Supreme Court shall
be returnable within six mont s from the commencement of
the term, if issued within six months, and to the ﬁrst day of m
the next term, if issued more than six months after the com
mencement of the previous term.
§ 3735. All executions issuing from the circuit and chancery
courts, or from any criminal or special court, shall be return
able to the ﬁrst day of the term next ensuing the date of is
suance.
§ 3736, All executions from the county court shall be re
turnable to the ﬁrst day of the third term after the term of c
which they are tested.
§ 3737, All justice’s executions shall be returnable within
thirty days after the date of their issuance, to the justice who
issued them, or the justice whomay have possession of the
original judgment, as the case my be.
§ 3738. Every sheriﬁ' or other 0 cer, to whose hands an ex
ecution may legally come, shall give a receipt therefor, if re
quired, and make sufﬁcient return thereof, together with the
money collected, on or before the return day as above pre
scribed. 
§ 3739. Executions shall be levied of the goods and chattels
of the defendant, in the ﬁrst instance, if any there be, but if,
to the best of the ofﬁcer’s knowledge, there be no such goods
and chattels, or not sufﬁcient to answer the plaintiff's de
mand, the same shall be executed upon the lands and tene
ments.
§ 3740. A description of the property levied on, with the
date of the levy, shall be endorsed upon or appended to the
execution.
§ 3741. Where the judgment or decree is against a prin
cipal and his surety, it shall be the duty of the ofﬁcer having
the collection thereof to exhaust the property of the prin
cipal, both real and personal, before proceding to sell the
property of the surety.
§ 3742. The term “surety,” 1n the foregomg section, shall
embrace accommodation endorsers, stayors, and all other per
sons whose liabllit on the debt or contract is posterior to
that of another. ut the surety shall, if requested by the
oﬁicer, show the property of the principal, to ent1tle himself
to the beneﬁt of this prowslon.
§ 3743. After exhausting the property of the principal, it
shall be the duty of the ofﬁcer to subject the property of the
other parties in the order of their liability on the debt or con
tract. But the party subsequently liable shall, if requested
by the ofﬁcers, show the property of the party liable before
him, to entitle himself to the beneﬁt of this provision.
§ 744 But all the parties will be considered as equally
liable, in all cases, unless the order of liability is shown to
the court or 'ustice, and recited in the judgment or decree.
And the cler or justice issuing execution on the jud' ment
or decree containing such recltal, shall state the or er of
liability in the execution. .
§ 3745. No sheriﬁ or other oﬁicer shall be required to Is
an execution on any property the title of which is dispute 
or to sell the same after levy, unless the plalntiﬁ' will ﬁrst
give bond and security to such ofﬁcer, to 1ndemnify him
against all damages and costs in consequence of the levy or
sale.
§ 3746. Executions may be levied on land held by entry or
location, in the same manner as land held by deed or grant,
and the ofﬁcer’s assignment of the warrant and transfer to
the purchaser of the entry or location or plat and certiﬁcate
of survey, if made out, shall vest him with all the rights of
the execution debtor.
§ 3747. The stock in all the turnpikes and railroads char
tered in this State shall be deemed personal property, and be
subject to levy and sale by execution.
§ 3748. The oﬂicer.making the levy shall, at the time of N
making such levy, or as soon thereafter as practicable, notify
the secretary or other ofﬁcer intrnsted with the books of the
turnpike or railroad company of the fact of such levy, the
notice to be given personally or in writing, left at the ofﬁce
of the secretary or other ofﬁcer as aforesaid, and no jud -
ment, execution, attachment or levy shall bind such stoci
until the notice required by this section be left with the sec
retary or other ofﬁcer having the charge of the stock books
of said corporation.
§ 3749. A levy may be made upon a growing crop, but not
until the ﬁfteenth of November after such crop is matured,
and then only subject to the landlord’s lien, if any. If, how
ever, the owner of the crop absconds, conceals himself, or
leaves the country, an attachment or execution may be levied
on a standing crop at any time.
§ 3750. An execution against a cor oration may be levied
of its choses in action, as well as of t e goods and chattels,
lands and tenements of such corporation; and in case of a
levy on choses in action, the court may appoint a receiver to
collect the same.
§ 3751. Execution sales shall be made between the hours of
ten in the forenoon and four in the afternoon.
§ 3752. The ofﬁcer making a levy on property shall adver
tise the time and place of sale at ﬁve public places at least,
in his county, one of which shall be the door of the court
house, and another, if the sale be of personalty, at the most
public place in the neighborhood of the defendant; if of
realty, in the civil district where the land lies. But con
stables residing out of the district including the county seat,
shall not be required to advertise at the court-house door.
§ 3753. All sales of lands shall also be advertised as pro
vided in sections 2969-2973.
§ 3754. The advertisement of sale shall be at least twenty
days for land and ten days for all other kinds of pr0perty.
§ 3755. If the defendant is in actual possession and occupa
tion of the land levied on, the ofﬁcer having the execution
shall, at least twenty days previous to such sale, serve the
defendant with written 'notice, stating that the execution is
levied on said land, and mentioning the time and place of
sale; and sales made without the notice required in this sec
tion are void. -
§ 3756. At any time before ten o’clock A. M. on the day of
sale, the defendant may deliver to the ofﬁcer a plan of division
of the lands levied on, subscribed by him, and it shall, in that
case, be the duty of the ofﬁcer to sell, according to said plan,
so much of the land as may be necessary to satisfy the debt
and costs, and no more. If no such plan is furnished, the
‘ ofﬁcer may sell without any division.
§ 3757. When personal property is levied on, if the defend
ant will give bond, payable to the creditor, in double the
amount of the execution, conditioned to deliver the property
levied on to the proper ofﬁcer by twelve o’clock noon of the
day of sale, the sheriff may restore the property to the de
fendant.
§ 3758. The sureties on a forfeited delivery bond shall not
be held responsible for more than the value of the property
speciﬁed in the bond, and not delivered according to its con
dition; and the value of the property, if not agreed upon,
shall be ascertained in a summary way by a jury of ﬁve dis
interested men, summoned by the oﬁicer making the levy or
holding the execution, whose valuation shall be ﬁnal,
§ 3759. The delivery bond, if forfeited, shall be, in the
hands of the ofﬁcer holdin it, a sufﬁcient authority to levy
upon and sell so much of t e property of the sureties as will
satisfy the amount for which they have made themselves
liable; and shall also be a sufﬁcient authority to the clerk or
justice to whom the same may be returned, to issue an alias
or pluries execution, as the case may be, a ainst the defend
ant to thejudgment, and against the sureties on said bond,
without any judgment upon the bond.
§ 3760. If there are more defendants than one to the origi
nal execution, and any of them do not join in the delivery
bond, the sureties on such bond shall be ﬁrst liable before
those defendants who refuse to join, to the extent of the
liability incurred by the bond ; but in the event the debt, or
any portion of it, is paid by the suret to the bond, he shall
be substituted to the rights of the efendant for whom he
is surety, as against the other defendants.
§ 3761. Upon forfeiture of the bond, the ofﬁcer holdin the
execution shall levy immediately upon the property of the
defendants who join in the bond, to satisfy the debt and costs
to the plaintiffs, and double costs to the ofﬁcer; and if there
shall not be property enough of these defendants found to
satisfy the execution, he shall levy upon property of the
sureties sufﬁcient to satisfy so much of the amount as they
had become liable for; and if the execution is still unsatis
ﬁed, it shall be his duty to go upon such of the original de
fendants, if any, as did not join in the delivery bon .
§ 3762. If unable to obtain satisfaction of the debt before
he is bound by law to return the execution, the ofﬁcer shall
return the execution and bond together, with a proper en
dorsement of the facts, and thereupon an alias or pluries ex
ecution, as the case may he, shall issue against all parties,
with endorsements showing the amounts paid upon any for
mer execution, and specifying the amount for which the
sureties are bound, if less than the unsatisﬁed balance.
§ 3763. No second delivery bond shall be taken after for-.
feiture of the ﬁrst
§ 3764. The provisions of these sections allowing delivery
bonds, do not apply to executions issued on judgments. or
decrees a ainst sheriffs, coroners, or other oﬁicers of court
against whom judgment is obtained for failing to pay over
money collected or paid to them in an ofﬁcial ca acity; and
the clerk shall endorse on all such executions, “$10 delivery
bond to be taken.”
§ 3765. Upon the sale of turnpike or railroad stock or
shares by execution, the ofﬁcer, on receiving from the pur
chaser the amount of his bid, shall execute and deliver to him
an assignment of the shares sold; and his return of the sale
on the back of the execution shall be notice to all the world
of the fact of sale; and, on presenting to the proper ofﬁcer of
the company such assignment, the oﬁicer shall transfer said
shares on the proper book, to the purchaser or assi nee.
§ 3766. On the sale of land by execution, the o 'cer shall
'give to the purchaser a certiﬁcate, if demanded, of the fact
stating the date of sale, the amount of the bid, the execution
under which the land is sold, and the description of the land
as given in the levy.
§ 3767. If the land is redeemed, as hereinafter provided, the
purchaser or his assignee shall assign and deliver the shcriﬂ ’s
certiﬁcate to the person redeeming.
§ 3768. The urchaser, after payment of the money bid at
execution, or t e person succeeding to his rights, may, at any
time, either within or after the expiration of the two years
allowed for redemption, demand from the oﬁicer or his suc
cessor a deed, who shall execute it accordingly.
§ 3769. If the oﬂicer’s deed is made within two years, the
person obtaining it, in case the land is redeemed from him,
shall, at his own cost, make to him who redeems, a complete
deed proved or acknowledged for registration, divestin
self and vesting the other with the title acquired. n like
manner, title shall be made upon each subsequent redemp
tiOn, but at the cost of the party redeeming.
§ 3770. Any sheriﬂ','coroner, or tax collector in ofﬁce, may
execute deeds for lands sold by a former sheriﬁ', coroner or
collector, which deeds shall be as valid as if executed by such
former ofﬁcer.
§ 3771. On all judgments before justices of the peace, the
detendant is entitle to a sta of execution for eight months,
upon enterin good and su cient security on the justice’s
docket for de t, interest and costs, within two entire days,
Sundays excepted, after the rendition of judgment.
§ 3772. The security for the stay may, with the consent of
the plaintiﬁ, be received and entered by the justice at any
time before the debt is paid.
§ 3773. It is not lawful for the justice, to enter security for
the stay of execution for any defendant bound as surety or
endorscr on the original debt, where the security is oﬁered
by the principal, unless the defendant asscnts in pro er per
son or by writing, signed by him, and showing t at the
stayor is entered as such at his instance and request.
§ 3774. The stayor who becomes security at the instance of
the principal in the judgment, shall be ﬁrst liable, in default
of the principal, before the original surety or endorser.
§ 3775. Upon application of the stayor by afﬁdavit in writing,
to be ﬁled with the papers, that he is fearful, and be-
lieves that, if execution is further stayed, he will be com-
pelled to pay the judgment, thejustice shall issue execution
1at any time against 1; e debtor and stayor.
§ 3776. The debtor shall have two days after the levy 'of the
execution to give other security for the unexpired time of
the stay, which, if received, and entered by the justice, shall
operate a release of the former stayor, and also a discharge
of the levy. ’
§ 3777. If the plaintiﬁ deems his debt in danger of being
lost on account of the insolvency, removal, or insufﬁcienc ' of
a stayor, he may, at any time,_make oath of that fact be ore
the justice having possession of the papers in the cause, and,
upon giving the defendant two days’ written notice of the
time of his application, require the defendant to justify or
give other security; and, if the defendant fail to justify, or
to 've other security to the satisfaction of the justice, exe
cution shall issue forthwith.
§ 3778. The entry of the stay on the justice’s docket, under
the provisions of the foregoing sections, is a sufﬁcient au
thority to the justice to issue execution against the defend
ants to the judgment, and the stayors at the proper time.
§ 3779. The stayor who pays off the judgment, may have
his judgment over by motion against his principal, before
the justice having lawful possession of the papers, for the
amount so paid, with interest and costs, and the defendant
shall not be entitled to stay the execution on such judgment.
§ 3780. Colstayors shall have the like remed ' by motion
against each other, and before the same tribuna s as co-sure-
ties; and no stay shall be allowed on any judgment before a
justice of the peace, under this section.
§ 3781. In taxing the costs of the motion under the preced-
ing section, no State tax shall be charged.
§ 3782, The justice of the peace who renders a 'udgmeut.
or his successor, or any other justice havin lawful posses
sion of the judgment. may issue execution t ereon.
§ 3783. In the case of vacancy in the oﬁice of the justice
rendering the judgment, or his successor, or in their absence,
temporary or protracted, any justice of the peace in the
coptjlty may issue execution at the instance of the party en
tit e .
§ 3784. Where an appeal has been prayed and obtained
from a judgment of a justice of the peace, if the plaintiff
and defendant compromise the case before the papers have
been returned to the court to which the appeal was taken,
and ﬁle with the justice 9. written notice of the fact, signed
by both parties, the justice shall issue execution on thejudg
ment, as if no appeal had been taken.
§ 3785. When the docket book and original papers belong
ing to the oﬁice of a justice of the peace are destroyed, and
said justice shall make oath to that eﬁect, it shall be lawful
for said justice, or his successor in ofﬁce, (upon the plaintiﬁ,
his agent, attorney, or returning ofﬁcer, ﬁling with said jus
tice, or his successor in ofﬁce, an afﬁdavit setting forth the
name of the plaintiff or plaintiffs, defendant or defendants,
the date and amount of his, her or their judgment as near as
may be, and that the same has not been paid), to issue execu
tion as though the ori inal papers and docket book had not
been destroyed; and t e same shall be as good and valid and
have the same force and eﬂ'ect as other executions issued by
justices of the peace. 
§ 3186. Any justice of the peace in_ this_State, up0_n the pro-
duction of an execution from a justice’s judgment in another
county, accompanied by the certiﬁcate of the clerk of the
county court of that county, that the justice by whom the
judgment was rendered and the execution issued, was at the
time an acting justice of the peace of his county, may issue
an execution for the ori inal judgment and costs, and the
cost of the certiﬁcate, which execution may be levied upon
any property of the defendant in said county, real or per
sonal, in the same way as if the judgment had been originally
rendered in that county.

§ 3787. It the execution issued as provided in the last sec-
tion is levied upon land, it shall be returned, together with
the certiﬁed execution, to the Circuit Court of the county in
which the land lies, and the land shall be condemned and
sold, as if the original papers had been returned.
§ 3788. An alias and pluries execution may likewise be
issued on the certiﬁed execution, in the same way as on the
original judgment.
§ 3789. The clerk of the circuit courts of this State may is
sue execution for the unsatisﬁed debt and costs, in all cases
where a justice’s execution has been levied on land, and re
turn made thereof to his court according to law, and the real
estate executed fails, for any cause, to satisfy the judgment.
§ 3790. Executions under the last section may be issued to
any county in the State, from which the plaintiﬁ shall re
ceive the same beneﬁt, and the oﬁicer, into whose hands it
may come, shall have the same authority to proceed, as if
the execution had issued from ajustice of the peace on a
judgment rendered by him in the county to which the same
is directed.
§ 3791. When an execution issued from the judgment of a
court of record, and an execution from a justice’s judgment,
are levied on the same personal property, the execution ﬁrst
levied shall have preference.
§ 3792. Where there is not suﬁicient time between the levy
and return day of an execution from a justice’s judgment to
sell, or where, for any reason, the sale cannot be had before
the return, the lien given by the levy shall continue, and the
justice of the peace, or other proper ofﬁcer, shall issue an
order of sale on the execution levied and returned.
§ 3793. When an execution issued by a justice of the peace
is levied on real estate, it shall be the duty of the justice to
whom the same is returned to return the execution, together
with the judgment and the papers in the’cause, to the next
circuit court of his county for condemnation.
§ 3794. The circuit court, upon the return thus made, may
condemn the land, and order the same, or so much thereof as
it may see proper, to be sold by the sheriﬁ of the county, in
satisfaction of the judgment and costs.
§ 3795. If the circuit court condemn the land to be sold, the
clerk shall enter on the minutes the warrant, attachment, or
other leading process, with the ofﬁcer’s return thereon, the
prosecution and other bonds where the condition has not
been discharged, aﬂidavits-for attachment or other process,
the judgment of the justice, the execution levied with the
ofﬁcer’s return, and the judgment of the court.
§ 3796. Where several executions in favor of the same
plaintiff are returned at the same term of the court, levied
on the same tract of land, they shall all be included in one
judgment of condemnation, and only one order of sale issue.
§ 3797. The ofﬁcer levying an execution issued by ajustice
on personalty, shall advertise the sale of such personalty for
ten days at one public place in the district in which the de
fendant resides, at the courthouse door of the county, and at
two public places in the district where the sale is made, sub
ject to the provisions of section 37 520
§ 3798. The same property is exempt from execution as is
exempt from levy, attachment, or sale by other judicial ro
cess, under the provisions of sections 2931 and 2946, w ich
treat of exemptions and homestead.
§ 3799. Real property or any interest therein, sold by exe
cution, is subject to redemption, under the rules, regulations,
and restrictions of sections 2947 and 2960, which treat of re
demption.

§ 3800. The oﬁicer in whose hands is an unsatisﬁed execu
tion, may summon in writing any person as garnishee, to ap
pear at the next term of the court from which the execution
issued, or before the justice of the peace to whom the execu
tion is returnable, as the case may be, and answer the gar
nishment.
§ 3801. 'lhe garnishee may be required to answer on oath—
1. Whether he is, or was at the time of the arnishment,
indebted to the defendant; if so, how and to w lat amount.
2. Whether he had in his possession, or under his control,
any property, debts, or effects belonging to the defendant, at
the time of serving the notice, or has at the time of answer
ing, or has had at any time between the date of service and
the time of answering; and, if so, the kind and amount.
3. Whether there are, to his knowledge or belief, any and
what propertv, debts, and effects in the possession or under
the control of any other, and What, person.
§ 3802. Such other questions may be put to him by the
court orthe judgment creditor, as may tend to elicit the infor
mation sought.
§ 3803. All property, debts, and effects of the defendant in
the possession of the garnishee,_0r under his control, shall be
liable to satisfy the plaintiif’s judgment, from the service of
the notice, or from the time they came to his hands, if ac
quired subsequent to the service of notice, and before judg
ment.
§ 3804. If the garnishee fails to appear or answer, a condi
tionaljudgment ma be entered against him for the plain-
tiﬂ’s debt, upon which a notice shall issue to the garnishce,
.returnable at such time as the court or justice may re uire,
.to show cause why jud ment ﬁnal should not be ren ered
against him ; and on fai ure of the garnishee to appear and
show cause, the conditional judgment shall be made ﬁnal,
and execution awarded for the plaintiff’s entire debt, and
costs.
§ 3805. If, upon the examination of the garnishee, it appears
that he has roperty, debts, or effects in his hands, or under
his control, iable for the plaintiﬁ"s debt, judgment may be
entered, and execution awarded for the property, money, or
effects, as the case may be, or so much thereof as will be
sufﬁcient to satisfy the plaintiff’s debt and costs, and all
charges incident to the proceedings.
§ 3806. So, also, if the arnishce’s examination shows that
any property, debts, or effects of the defendant are probably
in the hands of other persons, the court or justice shall, on
the application of the plaintiff, issue notice to such persons
to come forward and answer as garnishees, and the same pro
ceedings may be had as in other cases.
§ 3807. So soon as the property is declared to be the prop
erty of the defendant, under the provisions of the two pre
ceding sections, it shall be delivered up to the ofﬁcer serving
the garnishment, on demand, and on failure to deliver the
same, and return made on the execution of that fact, judg
ment shall be entered immediately against the garnishee, for
the debt and cost. _
§ 3808. When the property consists of an interest in land,
if the garnishment proceedin s are before a justice, he shall
return the papers to the circuit court of the county for con
demnation, as in other cases of the levy of a justice’s execu
tion on land. .
§ 3809. The garnishee against whom judgment is rendered
by ajustice of the peace, for money, shall be entitled to stay
the execution as in other cases.
§ 3810. The words “property, debts and eﬁccts,” include
real estate, and choses in action, whether due or not, and
judgments before a justice of the peace; also money, stocks
and any interest in an incorporated company.
§ 3811. Execution of the garnishment jud ment may he
stayed until the choses in action fall due, antFthe court may
order them to be collected, if necessar , or sold for what they
will brin , as may be deemed just an proper.
§ 3812. he garnishee against whom judgment has been
rendered, is entitled to a certiﬁcate from the clerk or justice,
stating the date and amount of the garnishment judgment,
in whose favor and in what case rendered, which certiﬁcate
shall have all the force and effect of a receipt against the
original debt, and entitle the arnishee to a credit to the
amount thereof on the original judgment, or on the excution,
if' alread issued, to be entered by the justice or ofﬁcer.
§ 3813. The provisions of this Code in regard to garnish
ment on attachments, and attachments, regulate also pro
. ceedings under this article whenever applicable.
§ 3814. The ofﬁcer having an execution shall not summon a '
garnishee under the provisions of this Code, if he can ﬁnd '
property of the debtor in his county sufﬁcient to satisfy such
execution. _
§ 3815. The garnishee shallhave the payment and be entitled
to the privilege of a witness, and shall recover costs against
the plaintiff if the garnishment is not successfully prose
cuted, unless the court or justice should be of the opinion
that the garnishee has been uilty of fraud or combination
with the judgment debtor, and order otherwise.
§ 3816. Where the sum in controversy is less than one thou
sand dollars, the answer of the garnishee is not conclusive,
but the plaintiff may controvert any of the facts contained
_therein.
Upon the trial, the answer of the garnisheee is
testimony.
§ 3817. In all cases where judicial process or execution, ac-
cordin to the principles of the common law, cannot be made
to app y to the purpose of carrying into effect any judgment
or decree of a court of record, the court may enforce the
judgment or decree by attachment for contempt, in the na
ture of an execution.
§ 3818. The proceedings under this writ are the same prescribed
by this Code for the enforcement of the decrees of
the Chancery court, in Title 10, Chapter 3, Article XII., of
this part of the Code.
§ 3820. Ajudgment by confession, or the suing out of an
injunction against a judgment at law, is a release of errors.
8 Bax., 416; 4 Heis., 281; 2 Heis., 192.
See ante 2 3691 and note. 5 Cold., 371; 5 Hum., 578; M. 61 Y., 367; 4 Yer.,
§ 172; Cooke, 136.
§ 8821. In equity causes removed to the Supreme Court by
writ of error, or appeal in the nature of a writ of error, the
depositions and exhibits read on the hearing below shall be
considered a part of the record, and the cause shall be re
viewed and examined as if brought up by appeal.
§ 3822. All bonds and recognizances taken according to law
in the appellate court, or in the court below, in the progress
of a cause, form a part of the record, and judgment ma be
rendered thereon by the appellate court, to 'the extent 0 the
respective liability of the parties, upon motion, without scire
jacias or notice. 
§ 3823. Any person aggrieved by the judgment of the
county, circuit, or chancery court, by reason of a material
error in fact, may reverse the same upon writ of error corum
nobis, as herein provided.
§ 3824. The writ of error comm nobis may be had within
one year from the rendition of the judgment, by petition pre
sented to the judge at chambers or in open court, who may
order it to operate as a supersedeas or not.
§ 3825. Before such order shall operate as a superselleas, the
party applying shall give bond, with good security, in double
the amount of the judgment, conditioned to abide by and
perform thejudgment or decree of the court.
§ 3826. Notice of the suing out of the writ shall be served
on the opposite party, or his attorney, at least ten days prior
to the term of the court to which the writ is returnable, or
the cause shall be continued to the next succeeding term, n
less the party entitled to notice consents to a trial at the rst
term. ,
§ 3827. In all cases of aﬁirmance of the jud ment, or dis
missal of the writ for any cause, where the original judgment
has been superseded, judgment shall be rendered against the
plaintiff in error and his sureties for the amount of the for
mer judgment, with interest at the rate of twelve and one
half per cent. per annum from the rendition thereof, and all
costs. 
§ 3828. The court may order publication for non-resident
defendants, who have no known attorney in the State, and
may prescribe rules for the assignment of errors. making is
sues thereon, and for all such other matters as are necessary
to give full effect to this proceeding.
§ 3829. The relief embraced in this article is conﬁned to
errors of fact occurring in proceedings of which the person
seeking relief has had no notice, or which he was prevented
by disability from showing or correcting, or in which he was
prevented from making defense by surprise, accident, mis
take, or fraud, without fault on his part.
§ 3830. Thus, infancy at the rendition of the judgment, not
appearing on the record sought to be corrected, or a real de
fense to an action by motion, of which the party a grieved
had no notice, and so of like ﬁes, are good gronn s for re
lief under this writ.
§ 3831. If the matter is not tried at the ﬁrst term after the
writ is sued out, the court may discharge the supersedeas,
upon the motion of the adverse party, and his denial onyoath
of the facts alle ed in the petition, upon taking a refunding
bond, with good security, to' perform the judgment in case
the suit should be eventually decided in favor of the party
suing out the writ. 
§ 3832. A rehearing can only be applied for at the term of
the court at which the decree sought to be affected is ren
dered.
§ 3833. No bill of review shall be brought, or a motion
made therefor, except within three years from the time of
pronouncing the decree, saving to infants, married women,
persons of unsound mind, imprisoned, or beyond the limits
of the United States, a right to a bill of review within three
years after such disability has been removed.
§ 3834. The depositions and exhibits that were read on the
hearing of the cause, shall be considered a part of the rec
ord, as it the name were transcribed and incorporated with
the decree.
§ 3835. Not more than two new trials shall be ranted to
the same party in an action at law, or upon the trial by jury
of an issue of fact in equity.
§ 3836. Where a motion for new trial shall be granted or
refused, either party may except to the decision of the court,
and may reduce to writin the reasons offered for said new
trial, together with the substance of the evidence in the case,
and also the decision of the court on said motion; and it»
shall be the duty of the judge, before whom such motion is
made, to allow and sign the same; and such bill of exceptions
shall be a part of the record in the case.
§ 3837. It shall be lawful for the appellant in such case to
assign for error that the judges in the court below improp
erly granted or refused a new trial therein, and the Supreme
Court shall have power to grant new trials, or to correct
any errors of the circuitcourt in granting or refusing the
same.
§ 3838. The writ of certiorari_ may be granted whenever
authorized by law, and also in all cases where an inferior
tribunal, board, or oﬁicer exercising judicial functions has
exceeded the jurisdiction conferred, or is acting illegally,
when, in the judgment of the co trt, there is no other plain,
speedy, or adequate remedy.
§ 3839. C'crtiorari lies—
On suggestion of \diminption;
\Vhere no appeal is given;
As a substitute for appeal;
Instead of aullz'la querela;
Instead of writ of error.
§ 3840. It shall not be necessary that a levy shall be made
on the defendant’s property in order to entitle him to the
writ of certiorari and superscdcas.
§ 3841. All writs of certiorari and supersedeas granted to re
vise the proceedings of the county court, or any justice of
the peace, shall be made returnable to the circuit court un
less otherwisc expressly provided by law.
§ 3842. The judges of the inferior courts of law, and
chanccllors, have the power, in all civil cases, to issue writs
of ccrtioruri to remove any cause or transcript thereof from
any interior jurisdiction, on sufﬁcient cause, supported by
oath or afﬁrmation.
§ 3843. Two justices of the peace may, within twenty days
after judgment, grant a crrtiorari and supersedeas to remove
the proceedings of a justice of the peace to the circuit court.
§ 3844. The petition for rcrta'orari may be sworn to before
the clerk of t e circuit court, the judge, or anyjustice of
the peace, and shall state that it is the ﬁrst application for
the writ.
§ 3845. Where the error complained of is in the amount of
the judgment, the petition shall show the amount of the mis
take, and the supersedvas shall not issue for more than such
amount, and the plaintiﬁ' in the judgment shall be entitled to
execution for the balance 'not complained of, as if no such
writ had been obtained.
§ 3846. \Vheu the certiorari extends only to a part of the
judgment, or it is brought by one or more of several parties
only, a certiﬁed co y of the proceedings complained of shall
he made out by he proper oﬂicer, and ﬁled in lieu of the
original papers, and proceedings as to parties who do not
join in the application shall not be affected.
§ 3847. The clerk of the circuit court, before he issues the
I writ, shall take bond from the party applying, with good se
curity, in double the amount of the judgment or error com
plained of, payable to the opposite party, conditioned to
prosecute the writ with effect, or perform the judgment which
shall be rendered in the cause.
§ 3848. The clerk shall also issue a writ of supersedeas in all
necessary cases, directed to the opposite party, or the ofﬁcer
in whose hands the execution may be, which shall effectually
supersede all further proceedings thereon.
§ 3849. No supersedeas shall issue upon application in formav
paupcris, without express order of the judge dispensing with
security. Such order may be made by the judge only on notice
to the adverse party of the application.
§ 3850. On refusing such order, the judge may either take
bond from the adverse party for the payment of damages, ineluding
the value of property levied on, or for the safe keep-
ing of the property and its rc-delivery at the end of the suit,
with damages, if the applicant succeed in his application; or
he may order the property to be kept by the oﬂicer, and take
bond from the plaintiff for damages only; or, if the property
is such as to render it proper, or if the ap licant consents,
may order the sale to proceed and take bont from the plain
tiff for payment of damages; or the judge may make such
other order as the parties may-agree on or the circumstances
justify.
§ 3851. In such case no further notice shall be required to
bring the parties into court.
§ 3852.! On the ﬁnal judgment, the court may, if the appli-
cant obtain relief, direct the jury trying the cause to assess
his damages, or may empanel a jury for that purpose, may
order restitution of the property, or give such other judg
ment in the applicant’s favor as the state of the case requires.
§ 3853. Upon aﬂirmance of the judgment or decree below,
or recovery of a larger amount, or upon dismissal of the
certiorari for want of prosecution, or for any other cause,
the court shall enter up jud ent for the amount recovered
against the principal and t e sureties to the prosecution
bond, with interest at the rate of six per. cent. per annum
from the date of the judgment or decree below, and all costs,
§ 854. In all other cases, the judgment of the higher court,
if against the party obtaining the certiorari, shall be for the
amount of the recovery, with interest and costs, against the
principal and sureties to the prosecution bond.
§ 3855. The ori inal plaintiff, upon certiorari to a higher
court, may be ru cd to give security for the costs of suit in
such higher court.
§ 3856, Any person dissatisﬁed with the judgment of a us
- . . . .
tice of the peace, mayor, or recorder, in a ICIVIl action, may,
Within two entire days thereafter, Sundays exclusive, appeal
to the next circuit court.
§ 3857. Before the appeal is granted, the person appealing
shall give bond with good security, as hereinafter provided,
for the prosecution of the appeal.
ined, it is the duty of the justice, within the ﬁrst two days
of the term to which the a peal is prayed, to transmit to the
clerk of the circuit court a l the papers on ﬁle and proceed
ings had in the cause.
§ 3859. If the papers are not ﬁled within the time pre
scribed, the appellee may, on production thereof, have an af
ﬁrmance of the justice’s judgment, with costs.
§ 3860. If the jUstice fail to return the papers within the
time prescribed, but return them during the term to which
the same are returnable, and the appellant fail to appear and
prosecute his appeal, if he is the original defendant, the
plaintiff shall have judgment ﬁnal, by default, for the amount
of the judgment of the justice, against the appellant and his
sureties for the debt and costs. If the plaintiﬁ' is the a pel
laiit, and fails to appear within the term, his suit shal be
dismissed, and judgment given against him and his sureties
for costs.
§ 3861. So, also, if the papers are, properly returned, and
the appellant fails to appear or defend within the ﬁrst three
days of the term to which the papers are returned, or if the
appeal is dismissed for any cause, the appellee is entitled to
an aﬁirmance of the judgment below, with costs.
§ 3862. The original plaintiff may be ruled to security in
the appellate court for the costs of the cause.
§ 3863. Any person dissatisﬁed with the judgment of a
mayor or recorder of a municipal corporation, may appeal to
the next circuit or common law court, in all cases in which
an appeal is allowed from the judgment of a justice of the
peace, and subject to the same terms and restrictions.
§ 3864. Any person dissatisﬁed with the sentence, judg
ment, or decree of the county court, may pray an appeal to
the circuit court of the county, unless it is otherwise ex
pressly provided by this Code. 
§ 3865. In all cases in which the jurisdiction of the county
court is concurrent W1th the circuit or chancery courts, or in
which both parties consent, the appeal li‘es direct to the Sn
preme Court.
§ 3866. The appeal is to the next term of the circuit court,
if more than ﬁve days intervene between the date of appeal
and the ﬁrst day of the term; if less time intervene, the ap
peal is to the next succeeding term.
§ 3867. A transcript of the record of the suit on which the
appeal is made, shall be delivered to the clerk of the circuit
court, by the ﬁrst day of the term to which the appeal is
taken.
§ 3868. If the transcript is not ﬁled within the time pre
scribed in the last section, or if the appellant shall fail to ap
pear, or to prosecute his appeal, the judgment, sentence, or
decree of the county court shall be afﬁrmed.
§ 3869. On appeal, all jury cases in the county court shall
be tried de none in the circuit court; and all chancery cases,
or proceedings in the nature of chancery cases, shall be re
heard, as if the proceedings had been commenced in the cir
cuit court.
§ 3870. The clerk of the county court, upon appeal taken,
shall immediately make a full and perfect copy of all the
proceedings in the cause, and within ﬁve days after the ap
peal, give the same, with a taxation of all costs accrued, to
the appellant, if required, and endorse on the copy the day
on which it was demanded, and the day on which it was de
livered, and sign his name thereto; or, it' the same is not de
manded before the ﬁrst day of the next circuit court, he shall
then deliver the same to the clerk of said court.
§ 3871- The clerk of the circuit court, upon receiving the
transcript, shall give a receipt to the person delivering it,
and immediately endorse thereon the date of its delivery,
and shall enter it on the proper docket.
§ 872. Either party dissatisﬁed with the judgment or de
cree of the circuit or chancery court, in a matter of equity
tried according to the forms of the chancery court, may ap
peal to the Supreme Court, and have a re-examination in
that court of the whole matter of law and fact, appearing in
the record.
§ 3873. Issues of fact in chancery, made up on demand of
either party, and tried by jury according to the forms of a
court of law, are not embraced in the foregoing section, and
errors in the proceedings therein had can only be corrected
as errors are corrected 1n actions at law.
§ 3874. The chancellor or circuit judge may, in his discre
tion, allow an appeal from his decree in equity causes, deter
mining the principlcs involved, and ordering an account, or
a sale, or partition, before the account is taken, or the sale,
orlpartition is made; or he may allow such appeal on over
ru in
a demurrer; or he may allow any party to appeal More dome a,
from a decree which settles his right, although the case may
not be disposed of as to others.
§ 3875. In divorce cases, an appeal shall be the only mode
of revising errors.
§ 3876. Any one or more of the parties to a judgment or
decree may pray and obtain an appeal therefrom, the judg
ment remaining in full force against such of the parties as do
not appeal. 
§ 3877. No appeal shall be dismissed by the appellate court
for failure to assign reasons for the appeal. ‘
§ 3878. Bonds taken for the prosecution of appeals'are a part
of the record of the appellate court, on which judgment may
be rendered at any time, against the appellant and his sure
ties, without notice.
§ 3879. In actions founded on bonds for the payment of
. . . . . .
money, bills single, Inns of exchange, promissory notes, liqui
dated accounts signed by the party to be char ed there
with, written obli ations for the payment of ban notes, or
promissory notesﬁmnds or written obligations for the deliv
ery of speciﬁc articles, or on endorsements of negotiable in
struments, if the appellant take an appeal in the nature of a
writ of error, from an interior to a superior jurisdiction, the
bond shall be taken and the sureties bound for the payment
of the whole debt, damages, and costs, and for the satisfaction
of the judgment of the superior court Where such cause may
be ﬁnally tried and determined.
§ 3880. In all other cases of appeal in suits at law, the bond
shall be for damages and cost only, and interest shall be re
covered at the rate of six per cent. per annum.
§ 3881. Where decrees are for a speciﬁc sum of money and
against the party in his own right, the appeal bond shall be
for the amount of the decree and damages and cost.
§ 3882. In all cases in which the decree of any court of
equity real estate is ordered to be sold, and the party whose
real estate is so decreed to be sold, prays and obtains an ap-
peal to the Supreme Court, he shall be required to execute a
bond in an amount sufﬁcient to pay costs of the cause in the
court below and the Supreme Court.
§ 3883. In all cases in the inferior courts of this State, where-
in an appeal to the Supreme Court may hereafter be prayed
and granted upon the terms now imposed by law, and the
party a pealing is a resident of another county or State, or
is unal) e by reason of physical inability to be present, the
court granting said appeal may, in its discretion, allow the
appellant time, in no case exceeding thirty days, in which to
give bond or ﬁle the pauper’s oath for the prosecution of
said appeal, and such appeal bond approved by the clerk of
the court from which the a peal is taken, shall render said
appeal as effectual as it' eg
ected during the term of the
court at which the judgment appealed from, was rendered.
§ 3884. On at‘ﬁrmance of decrees in equity cases for money,
interest shall be recovered at the rate of six per cent. per an
num.
§ 3885. The appellate court shall, in all cases, render judg
ment against all or any of the obligors in the appeal bond for
the amount of the judgment, with interest, damages and costs,
according to the foregoing provisions.
§ 3886. If the judgment or decree of the inferior court is
reversed, the appellate court shall give suchjudgmeut or make
such decree as should have been rendered in the inferior
court, and shall issue execution without a procedemlo, except
where' the damages to be assessed are uncertain, in which case
the court, if of last resort, shall remand the cause for further
proceedings.
§ 3887. In equity cases, the court may retain the cause to
take accounts or ascertam facts, or remand at its discretion.
§ 3888. In chancery cases, where the court reverses the de
cree below sustaining a demurrer, the cause may be remanded
to the inferior court for further proceedings.
§ 3889. The court shall also. in all cases, where, in its opiu
ion, complete justice cannot be had by reason of some defect
in the record, want of proper parties, or oversight without
culpable negligence, remand the cause to the court below for
further proceedings, with proper directions to effectuate the
objects of the order, and upon such terms as may be deemed
ri ht.
§ 3890. And if a cause be remanded, upon being brought up
again for correction of errors, the transcript of the record
previously sent up, shall, together with the transcript of the
subsequent proceedings in the court below, constitute a full
record.
§ 3891. A11 a peal in the nature of a writ of error lies, at
the instance 0? either party, from the judgment or decree of
the court of chancery, or of the county or circuit court in
equity causes, in all cases tried according to theforms of chan
cery, upon the same terms, and subject to the same regula
tions, as an appeal from similar judgments or decrees.
§ 3892. In all other cases determined in the county court,
when either party is dissatisﬁed with the ﬁnal decision, an
appeal in the nature of a writ of error may be taken by him
to the circuit court, or, both parties consenting, to the Sn
preme Court. v
§ 3893. Either party to an action at law in the circuit court
or to an issue of fact tried byjury in the chancery court at
the instance of the parties, ma , in like manner, at the term
at which ﬁnaljudgment is ren ered, or a decree from which
an appeal may be allowed is entered, pray an appeal in the
nature of a writ of error to the Supreme Court. '
§ 3894. The bond required from the appellant, and the pro
ceedings in the appellate court, upon an appeal in the nature
of a writ of error, are the same as those prescribed in this chapter, upon an appeal.
§ 3895, A writ of error lies from the ﬁnal judgment of the
county court, to the circuit or Supreme Court, and from the
circuit and chancery court to the Supreme Court, in all cases
where an appeal 1n the nature of a writ of error would have
lain.
§ 3896. It may be moved for and obtained 1n the appellate
court, or issued by the clerk of the appellate court 1n vaca
tion, upon the transcrlpt of the record being ﬁled in his
oﬁice, and bond given as required by law.
§ 3897..The writ of error does not supersede the execution
of the judgment, unless a judge of the Supreme Court is of
0 inion, from inspecting the record, that there is error, and
s all order a supersea'eas to issue. 
§ 3898. Any person may obtain a writ of error, without
supersrdeas, by givin bond and security for costs alone. it
application therefor e made within the time now provided
by law for such writ; or if unable to give security, then he
may pauperize.
§ 3899. The application to a clerk of a circuit court to bring
up a proceeding of the county court, shall be made before the
next term of the court after the judgment appealed from.
§ 3900, To the clerk of the Supreme Court, within one year
after the judgment or decree.
§ 3901. To the appellate court, or a judge thereof, within
two years after the judgment or decree.
§ 3902. Infants, married women, persons of unsound mind,
imprisoned, or beyond the limits of the United States, may
prosecute writs of error within the time prescribed after disa
bility removed. '
§ 3903. If sued out after the term of the court at which the
judgment complained of was rendered, ﬁve days’ notice in
writing shall be given to the adverse party of the intention
to apply for the writ.
§ 3904. The bond required from the applicant for the writ
of error, and the proceedings in the appellate court there
after, are the same as those upon an appeal as hereinbefore
provided in this chapter.
§ 3905. Where an appeal in the nature of a writ of error is
dismissed on the ground that the record was not brou ht up
within the time prescribed by the rules of the court, t e ap
pellant may, notwithstandin , prosecute a writ of error
within the same time, and un er the same regulations, as if
no appeal in the nature of a writ of error had been taken in
the case.
§ 3906. If the judgment or decree below has been executed
by a sale of property, either real or personal, before the writ
of error is obtained and sunerscdeas granted, the right, title
and interest of any purchaser, previously acquired, under
the judgment or decree, shall not be disturbed or affected by
the reversal of such decree.
§ 3907. No leading process shall issue from any of the
courts of this State without security being given by the party
at whose instance the action is brought, for_the successful
prosecution of his action, and, in case of failure, for the pay
ment of all cots and dama es which may be awarded against
him, unless in cases specia ly excepted by law.
§ 3908. Any clerk who neglects to take the security required
by the preceding section, is liable on his ofﬁcial bond to all
persons a grieve thereby.
§ 3909. n any action commenced by petition or motion, the
plaintiff may be required to give security.
§ 3910. The plaintiff in an action commenced before a jus
tice of the peace, shall, on motion, be ruled to give security
in the circuit court, to which the cause may be taken for the
correction of errors.
§ 3911. Any person required by law to give security for costs
may, at any stage of the cause, be ruled to give such security,
if it has not previously been done, or to justify or give new
security on suﬁicient cause shown.
§ 3912. Except for false imprisonment, malicious prosecu
tion and slanderous words, any resident citizen may com
mence an action without giving security as above required,
by taking and subscribing the following oath in writing:
“ I, A. B., do solemnly swear, that owing-to my poverty I
am not able to bear the expense of the action which I am
about to commence, and that I am justly entitled to the re
dress sought, to the best of my belief.
§ 3913. Except for false imprisonment, malicious prosecu
tion and slanderous words, any person who has been ap
ointed by any court of this State the guardian of any idiot,
unatic, or person of unsound mind, may commence and
prosecute an action without giving bond or security for costs
y taking and subscribing an oath that he has no property
of such idiot, lunatic or person of unsound mind, out of
which to bear the expense of such action, and that he verily
believes that such idiot, lunatic or person of unsound mind
is justly entitled to. the redress sought; nor shall such
guardian incur any personal liability for such action, unless
so decided by the court in which such action is brought or
decided.
§ 3914. In the cases provided for by the preceding section,
the clerks or other ofﬁcers of court, sha l perform all the
usual duties required in the progress of an action, and the
witnesses shall attend, as in other cases, unless their deposi
tions are taken under the provisions of this Code. —
§ 3915. If it be made to appear to the conrt,'at any time be
fore the trial, by the testimony of disinterested persons, that
the allegation of poverty is probably untrue, or the cause of
action frivolous or malicious, the action may be dismissed.
§ 3916. On failure, for any reason, to prosecute his action
with effect, judgment shall be given against such poor per
son, and execution awarded, as 1n other cases.
§ 3917. \Vhen security is given, judgment may, on motion,
be rendered against the surety for costs, as well as against
the principal. ,
§ 3918. In all cases of bonds for the prosecution of original
suits, or'by appeal, certiorari, or writs of error, or where there
is security ta en of record, in any of the courts of the State,
or before a justice of the peace, the surety shall undertake
to pa all costs that may be at any time adjudged against his
principal, in the event it is not paid by said principal.
§ 3919. Where the costs in any case in a court of record, or
before a justice of the peace, is adjudged against a party,
judgment shall be rendered jointly against him and his sure
ties; but the execution issued thereon shall be collected from
the party, if it can be; if not, then from the sureties.
§ 3920. N0 omission or neglect toinsert the proper condi
tions in any such bonds, shall vitiate or impair the validity
of the same.
§ 3921. The successful party in all civil actions is entitled to
full costs, unless otherwise directed by law, for which judg
ment shall be rendered.
§ 3922. In civil actions founded upon assaults, assaults and
battery, malicious prosecution, false imprisonment, slanderous
words, or for the recovery of damages for overﬂowmg of
water by the erection of a grist-mill, or other water-works
of utility, the plaintiff recovers no more costs than damages,
unless the recovery exceed ﬁve dollars.
§ 3923. Suits may be dismissed, in writing, out of term time
as well as in term, and further costs stopped; and if com
promised and dismissed before the return day of the original
writ, or before the court to which an appeal is taken from
the jud ment of a justice of the peace, no costs, except the
clerk’s ee for issuing the writ, and the sheriff‘s fee for serving
it, if served, shall be taxed.
§ 3924. Where suit is brought. in the name of one for the
use of another, the person for whose use the action is brought
is the real plaintiff, against whom judgment for costs shall be
given.
§ 3925. In cases of non-suit, dismission, abatement by death
of plaintiff, or discontinuance, the defendant is the success
ful party, within the meaning of the ﬁrst section of this chapter.
§ 3926. So, also, if the ap eal of the defendant from a jus
tice’s judgment is dismisse for any cause, the original plain
tiff is the successful party, and so of other cases.
§ 3927. Full costs up to the time of overruling the plea
shall be adjudged against the defendant, who unsuccessfully
relies upon a plea in abatement.
§ 3928. All costs accrued at the instance of the successful
party, which cannot be collected out of the other party, may
e recovcred, on motion, by the person entitled to them,
against the successful party.
§ 3929. In all cases, when motions‘are made against the suc
cessful party for costs accrued, at his instance, and which
cannot be collected from the other party, five days’ written
notice of the time and place, and the court before which said
motion is to be made, shall be given to the defendant in said
motion.
§ 3930. If it be made to appear in the action that usurious
interest has been intentionally taken or reserved, the person
taking or reserving such usury shall pay full costs.
§ 3931. The necessary fees paid by the successful party, in
procuring copies of deeds, bonds, wills, or other records ﬁled
as part of the testimony, shall be taxed in the bill of costs.
§ 3932. Postage paid by the ofﬁcers of the court, or by the
arties in sending process, depositions, and other papers, be
1ng part of the record, by mail, shall be taxed in the bill of
costs, as the other costs.
§ 3933. When the party ﬁling a plea “since the last contin
uance,” succeeds thereon, but fails on the plea to the merits
previously ﬁled, he shall be taxed with the costs which ac
crued previous to the ﬁling of the last plea.
§ 3934. When a plaintiﬂ' suﬁers his action to abate by the
death of the defendant, or other cause; or where the suit
abates by the death of the plaintiff, and his representatives
fail to revive the same, judgment for costs may be rendered
aginst such plaintiff or representatives, in the name of the
o cers of court, and, if against a representative, shall be paid
as other claims against the estate.
§ 3935. The defendants against whom judgment has been re
covered, are entitled, as between themselves, to a taxation of
the costs of witnesses whose testimdny was obtained at the
instance of one of the defendants, and inured exclusively to
his beneﬁt.
§ 3936. Costs omitted in taxing the bills of costs may be re
taxed at any time, upon application to the court; but if the
judgment for costs has been paid, the 'party against whom
the re-taxation is asked, shall have ﬁve days’ notice of the
applleation.
§ 3937. If the taxation of costs be excessive, by charging
the costs of witnesses who were not examined, or by charg
ing costs to an improper party, or taxing costs contrary to
law, or the taxation is otherwise erroneous, the party ag
grieved may move the court for a re-taxation, setting forth
the particulars in which the clerk has erred.
§ 3938. Not more than two witnesses called to prove the
same fact shall be taxed in any bill of costs against the losing
party, except in case of witnesses called to attack or sustain
the character of witness or party.
§ 3939. If more than the number of witnesses allowed are
examined in proof of an particular fact, a motion shall be
made at the term at whic the cause is tried, and the court
shall instruct the clerk as to the taxation of costs; and such
motion shall not be made afterwards, without good cause
shown.
§ 3940. Where a suit is dismissed from any court for want
of jurisdiction, or because it has not been regularly trans
ferred from an inferior to a superior court, the costs shall be
adjudged against the party attempting to institute or bring
up the cause.
§ 3941. In case of appeals from the circuit or chancer
court, the clerk shall make out a complete bill of costs, whic
shall accompany the record, and a copy of the same shall be
placed upon the execution docket of the court below.
§ 3942. When the costs accrued in the Supreme Court, and
in the court below, are paid to the clerk of the Supreme
Court, he shall pay so much of them as accrued in the court
below to the clerk of said court, in person, or upon his order
under the seal of his ofﬁce and take a receipt for the same.
§ 3943. On receiving said costs, the clerk of the court be-
low shall charge himself with the money, upon his execution
docket, and pay it to the persons entitled to the same.
§ 3944. The law of costs shall be construed remedially, and
not as the penal law. '
§ 3945. And if any case shall occur not directly or by fair
implication embraced in the express provisions of the law,
the court may make such disposition of the costs as, in its
sound discretion, may seem right.
§ 3946. In all cases where any civil action is brought on behalf
of the State, in law or equity, and the State shall be
adjudged to pay costs, such costs shall be paid out of the
treasury, upon the same being properly certiﬁed.
§ 3947. The clerks of the several courts, when any cause
required to be enrolled by them is ﬁnally determined, shall,
Within six months thereafter, enter all the proceedings there
in in a well-bound book, and an entire and perfect record
make thereof, under the provisions of this chapter.
§ 3948, N0 cause in any court of record in this State shall
be enrolled by the clerk of the court, unless upon applica-
tion of some arty to the suit, and the enrolling fee paid by
the party making the application. Either party may have
enrolled any paper in the record of a cause either before or
after the trial, he paying the cost thereof, and'a copy of such
enrolled paper shall be, 1n all res ects, treated as the original,
in case the ori inal is lost or mis aid.
§ 3949. In a1? cases settled before ﬁnal judgment, the clerk
shall reserve and ﬁle the original papers, enter the case
upon is execution docket, and state that the matter was
settled before ﬁnal judgment.
§ 3950. The clerks of the courts shall carefully ﬁle in their
respective ofﬁces the original papers in all misdemeanor
cases, but shall not enroll the same.
§ 3951. Whenever, in the opinion of any court ﬁnally deter-
mining an e uity cause, it is necessary and proper that the
proceedings s ould be enrolled, such court shall, upon appli-
cation of either party, order the enrollment, and the clerk
shall make the same accordingly, and the party applying for
the order shall be taxed with costs thereof.
§ 3952. Each district attorney-general of this State shal
examine the ofﬁces of the several clerks in his district at
every term of the court, whether enrollments have been
properly made, or fees charged for enrollments not made,
and shall proceed against the clerk guilty of oﬂicial delin
quency, and move for the fees illegally charged, and shall re
ceive a tax fee of ﬁve dollars for each case.
§ 3953. Any person having a valid subsisting legal interest
in real property, and a right to the immediate possession
thereof, may recover the same by an action of ejectment.
§ 3954. The action is commenced by summons and declara
tion, in which the name of the real claimant is sucd as plain
tiﬁ', and the proper name of the defendant is inserted.
§ 3955. The action is brought against the actual occupant,
if any, and 1f no such occupant, then against any person
claiming an interest therein, or exercising acts of ownership
at the commencement of the suit.
§ 3956. When the suit is against a tenant by a party claim
ing adversely to the title of his landlord, the landlord may
appear and be made a defendant with, or in the place of, the
tenant.
§ 3957. A copy of the declaration shall be left with the de
fendant at the time the summons is served upon him.
§ 3958. It is sufﬁcient for the plaintiff to allege in his decla
ration, that he was possessed ot' the premises sued for at the
time speciﬁed, which should be after his title accrued. and be
ing so possessed thereof, the defendant afterwards, on a day
stated, entered thereon, and unlawfully withholds the same
to the plaintiﬁ’s damage, naming the sum.
§ 3959. The plaintiff’s declaration shall specify the quantity
of his estate, and the extent of his interest, according to the
truth, and describe the premises with convenient certainty,
by metes and bounds, or other appropriate description.
§ 3960. The declaration may contain several counts, and
several parties may be named as plaintiffs jointly in one
count, and separately in others, but without the consent of
the party in person, or by'a duly authorized agent, unless he
be tenant in common with the part commencin the suit.
And it the name of a person be use as a plainti ' contrary
to this provision, the suit shall be dismissed at the cost of the
plaintiff, on motion of the defendant, and the proof of want
of authority.
§ 3961. The pleadings in this action may be amended under
the provisions of this Code. so as to conform to the truth
and attain the ends of justice.
§ 3962. If the defendant conceive the plaintiﬁ’s declaration
to be fatally defective upon its face, he may demur as in
other cases.
§ 3963. The defendant may plead that he is not guilty of
unlawfully withholding the premises claimed by the laiutiﬂ,
and upon such plea may avail himself of all legal de enses.
§ 3964. Such plea admits that the defendant is in possession
of the premises sued for, unless he states distinctly upon the
record the extent of his possession.
§ 3965. If the defendant fails to appear and defend within
the ﬁrst three days of the return term, judgment by default
may be taken, and such judgment executed as in other cases.
§ 3966. Upon the trial, the plaintiff need notprove an actual
entry on or possession of the premises demanded, or receipt
of any proﬁts thereof, nor any lease, entry or ouster, except
as herein provided; but it is sufﬁcient for him to show a
right to the possession of the premises at the commencement
of the'suit. -
§ 3967. If the action be brought by one or more tenants in
common, co-partners, or joint owners, against their co-tenants,
the plaintiff shall prove actual ouster or some other act by
the defendant amounting to a denial of the plaintiff’s right
as co-tenant. -.
§ 3968. On trials of actions of ejectment between vendor
and vcndee, title bonds, properly proved and registered, may
be read in evidence, and shall have the same force and effect
as a deed between the same parties.
§ 3969. When there are more defendants than one, the jury
may ﬁnd the defendants jointly and severally guilty of de
taining all or an distinct parcels of the premises, and plain
tiﬂ“ may have judgment against any or all defendants, accord
ing to the facts of the case.
§ 3970. The plaintiﬁ‘ may recover any speciﬁc part or share
of the premises embraced in the declaration, though less than
he claims. ' '
§ 3971. The .verdict may be for plaintiffs, or such of them
as appear to have right to the possession of the premises, or
any part thereof, and against such of the defendants as were
in possession thereof, or claim title thereto at the commence
ment of the action.
§ 3972. The verdict may specify the extent and quality of
the plaintiﬁ’s estate, and the premises to which he is entitled,
with reasonable certainty, by metes and bounds, or other suf
cient description, according to the facts as proved.
§ 3973. If'the right of the plaintiff expire after the, com
mencement of the suit and before trial, the verdict shall be
according to the facts, and judgment ‘shall be entered for
damages for the withholding of the premises by the defend
ant; and as to the premises, the judgment shall be that the
defendant 'go hence without day. '
§ 3974. A general verdict in favor of the plaintiff, without
such speciﬁcations, entitles the plaintiff to the quantity of
interest, or estate, and the premises, as set forth and described
,in the declaration. ' '
§ 3975. The judgment for the plaintiff is that he recover
the ossession of the premises according to the verdict, or, if
by efault or on _demurrer, according to the description in
the declaration.
§ 3976, The judgment is executed by a writ of possession,
issued to the sheriff, and directing him to put the plaintiﬁ" in
possession of the premises.
§ 3977. When any judgment shall hereafter be rendered in
favor of the plaintiff in any action of ejectment, and a writ
of possession be awarded, the same shall be executed, and
the plaintiff placed, in possession immediately.
§ 3978, If the defendant or defendants should take anapg
peal from said judgment, said plaintiff or plaintiffs shall
execute bonds with good and sufﬁcient security in double the
value of. two years’ rent of the premises, conditioned that he
or they will pay all costs and damages which may be sustained
by defendants from plaintiff ’s wrongfully enforcing said writ,
and that he or they will abide by and perform the judgment
of the Supreme Court rendered upon the ﬁnal hearing of the
cause.
§ 3979. Upon such bond being executed, the writ of posses
sion shall issue notwithstandin said appeal is-taken, unless
the defendant shall execute a like bond to plaintiff for rent,
in addition to his bond for costs.
§ 3980. It shall‘be the duty of the court in which the suit
is pending, at any time, upon good cause shown, to require
the party or parties place in possession by the court, and
executing bond as herein authorized, to give new and sufﬁ
cient security, or return the possession, so as to protect the
party as to rents and damages that may be due the other
party or parties upon ﬁnal termination of the suit in his or
their favor. 
§ 981. Before the plaintiff shall be put in possession under
the provisions of these sections, he shall execute a like bond,
be required to renew the same under the same rules so pro
vided above for the defendants; and when the plaintiff, put
in ossession by the court, fails to renew this bond as re uired,
it s all be the duty of the court to return the possession to
the defendant.
§ 3982. The provisions of the foregoing sections shall apply
to cases of forcible entry and detainer, forcible detainer, and
unlawful detainer, upon appeals to the Supreme Court.
§ 3983. Any such judgment is conclusive upon the party
against whom it is recovered, not under disability at the time
of the recovery, and all persons claiming under him by title
accruing after the commencement of the action.
§ 3984. If the person against whom the recovery is bad is
under the disabi ity of infancy, coverture or nnsoundness of
mind at the time of the recovery, the judgment is no bar to
an action commenced within three years a ter the removal of
such disability.
§ 3985. Nothing in the last section shall be held to affect the
general provisions of this Code, touchin the limitation of
actions, or to extend the time within whic suits must be 1n
stituted b these provisions. _
§ 3988. he death of either party does not abate the action,
but it may be revived in favor of the heirs or devisees of the
plaintiff, and against the heirs and terre-tenants of the de
fendant.
§ 3987. If the heirs are non-residents, the court may order
publication to be made'for them, as in the case of other non
resident defendants; and if they fail to appear and defend,
' judgment by default may be taken, subject to the rules and
regulations of this Code, touching judgments against non
resident defendants. ‘
§ 3988. If 'any of the heirs of a deceased defendant are in
fants, either resident or non-resident, without re lar uard
ian in this State, the court may appoint a guardian a litem
for such infants after suit has been revived against them by‘
service of process, or publication as aforesaid. 
§ 3989. Should such non-resident heirs appear, the court
may, at any time before the trial, upon satisfactory ground
shown, change the guardians, and appoint others to defend
in behalf of such defendants.
§ 3990. Nothing in this chapter contained deprives the
plaintiff of his rights to an action for mesne proﬁts, after ver
dict and 'udgment in his favor, nor the defendant of the
right to tile a bill in equity for the value of his improve
ments, but those rights are subject to the general provisions
0 this Code regulating actions.
§ 3991. A tenant in possession in good faith, under a lease
or license from another, is notlliable beyond the rent in arrear
at the time of suit brought for the recovery of the land, and
that which may afterwards accrue during the continuance of
his possesswn.
§ 3992. Persons holdinghpossession in good faith under color
of title, are entitled to 'ave the value of their permanent
improvements set off against the rents and proﬁts which the
plaintiff may recover. 
§ 3998. Any person having an estate of inheritance, or for
life, or for years, in lands, and holding and being in posses
sion thereof, as tenant in common or otherWise. with others,
is entitled to partition thereof, or sale for partition, under
the provisions of this chapter.
§ 3994. The fact that the premises are subject to a life estate
by dower or curtesy, or to an encumbrance by mortgage or
otherwise, will not aﬁeet the right. ‘
§ 3995. Nor will the fact that some of the joint owners are
infants, and that it is to their interest that the property
should not be partitioned; nor that the several estates and
interests of the parties are altogether different and distinct.
§ 3996. In these cases the partition shall be made according
to the respective rights of the parties, setting apart to such
as desire 1t their shares in severalty, and leaving the shares
of others, if desired, in common; and if there are minors,
the court may, in its discretion, leave their shares in com
mon, or set them apart to each in severalty, as may ap»
pear to each to be just and right, upon the proof intro
need.
§ 3997. The county, circuit, and chancery courts of this
State have concurrent jurisdiction of partition cases under
the provisions of this chapter, by bill or petition, as herein
after prescribed.
§ 3998. Nothing in'this chapter contained shall deprive the
chancery court of the jurisdiction rightfully belonging to
that court over the subject of partition and sales 0 realty
for the purposes of division.
§ 3999. The petition may be ﬁled in the court of the county
in which the land, or any part of It, lies, or in which the de
fendant resides. 
§ 4000. If all the claimants join in the petition, or assent
to the partition, it may be ﬁled in any county in the State,
whether any of the land lies therein or'not.
§ 4001. The bill or petition shall set forth as far as known,
the names of the owners, their residences, which of them are
infants or married women, and to whom married; describe
the property, its situation, the title by which it is held and
possessed, and such other facts as may be deemed necessary;
and pray the court to cause it to be divided among the claim
ants according to their respective rights and titles. 
§ 002. Every person having such interest, whether 111 pos
session or otherwise, and every person entitled to dower, if
the same has not been allotted, shall be made a party.
§ 4003, In case any one or more of such parties, or the
share or quantity of interest of any of the parties be unknown
'to the petitioner, or be uncertain or contingent, or the owner
ship of the inheritance shall depend upon an executory devise,
or the remainder shall be a contingent remainder, so that such
parties cannot be named, the facts shall be set forth in such
petition.
§ 4004. Notice of this petition, stating the time it is intended
to present it, and the court at which it is to be presented,
shall be served upon the parties who do not join in the peti
tion, at least ﬁve days before its presentation, or given by
publication, as hereinafter provided.
§ 4005. The action may, however, be commenced by ﬁling
the petition or bill, and issuance and service of copy and sum
mons, or making publication as in other chancery cases.
§ 4006, If any of the parties defendant are non-residents, or
unknown, or of. unknown residence, the court, or its clerk,
may order and make publication for them, under the pro
visions of this Code in like cases in chancery, where personal
service of rocess is dispensed with.
§ 4007. he court may allow any amendment of the plead
ings or proceedings, so as to make a party thereto any person
who appears in the course of the cause to be interested in the
premises, and who might originally have been made defend
.ant, ifhis interest had then existed or been known.
§ 4008. The court, on appearance or default, shall declare
the rights. titles, and interests of the parties in the premises,
and give judgment that partition be made between such of
them as have any right therein, according to such right.
§ 4009. The court may, in a proper case, where there are
unknown parties or unknown shares, give judgment that par
tition be made, so far as the rights or interests of the parties or
shares are known and ascertained, and the residue of the
premises shall remain for the parties whose interests have not
een ascertained, subject to division at any future time.
§ 4010. Whenever the judgment of partition is rendered,
the court will appoint- three or more respectable freeholders,
any three of whom may perform the duty, to make the par~
tition so adjudged, according to the respective rights and in
terests of the parties, as the same are ascertained and deter
mined.
§ 4011. The commissioners, before proceeding to the execu
tion of their duty, shall be severally sworn, by the clerk, the
ofﬁcer summoning them, the county surveyor, his deputy, or
any justice of the peace, to do justice among the parties, to
the best of their skill and abilities, according to the direct
tions of the court.
§ 4012. In making partition, the commissioners shall divide
the premises, and allot the several shares to the respective
parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, according
to the respective rights and interests of the parties as ad
judged by the court, designating the several shares by posts,
stones, marked trees, or other permanent monuments; and
they may employ a surveyor, with the necessary assistants, to
aid therein.
§ 4013. The commissioners shall make report in writing,
signed by at least three of them, of what they have done,
and describing the land divided. and the share of each party,
by metes and bounds, or other suﬁicient desi nation.
§ 4014. If the commissioners are satisﬁed t at exact parti
tion cannot be made without material injury to the parties,
or some one of them, they may make the partition as nearly
equal as they can, and charge the larger shares with the sums
necessary to equalize all the shares, and report the facts.
§ 4015. Upon the coming in of the report, unless set aside
for good cause shown, upon exception, the court shall con
ﬁrm the same, and divest and vest title according to its terms,
giving a decree in proper cases in favor of those to whom
smaller shares have been allotted against those having the
larger shares, for the amounts reported, which decree is a
lien on such larger shares until paid.
§ 4016. Where there are infants whose shares are thus
charged, the court shall direct the money to be paid out of
their personal estate, if any.
§ 4017. The expenses of the commissioners, including the
expenses of a surveyor and his assistants, when they have
been employed, will be ascertained and allowed by the court;
the said expenses to be paid by the claimants in the propor
tion of their interests, or equally, as the court may direct, to
be collected as other costs.
§ 4018. If the lands lie in different counties, the court may
appoint separate sets of commissioners for each county, or
one set for all the lands, as may seem best for the interest of
the parties.
§ 4019. The partition may be made by tracts, or by the division of each tract into shares, as may seem right to the
commissioners and the court.
§ 4020. If dower has never been allotted to the person en- a titled, upon petition for partition, the same may, on motion,
be allowed, and set apart by commissioners as in other cases;
§ 4021. In such case, the entire tract or tracts, including the
part in which dower is assigned, may be partitioned among ‘1
the claimants, as hereinbefore provided.
§ 4022. The partition thus made is conclusive—
1. On all parties named in the proceedings who have at
the time any interest in the premises‘divided, as owners in
fee, or as tenants for years, or as entitled to the reversion,
remainder, or inheritance, of such premises, after the termi
nation of any particular estate therein; or who, by any con
tingency in any will, conveyance, or otherwise, may be or
may become entitled to any beneﬁcial interest in the prem
ises ; or who shall have any interest in any individual share
of the premises, as tenants for years, for life, by the curtesy
or in dower.
2. On all persons interested in the premises who are un
known, to whom notice has been given by publication, as
hereinbefore directed.
3. On all ersons claiming from such parties, or persons,
or either of t em.
§ 4023. Such judgment and partition 'will not affect any ten
ants, or persons having claims as tenants, in dower, by the
curtesy, or for life, to the whole of the premises, nor preclude
any person, except those speciﬁed in the last section, from
claiming any title to the premises, or from controvertiiig the title or interest of the parties between whom the partition
has been made.
§ 4024. Any person entitled to a partition of premises un
der the foregoing provisions, is equally entitled to have such
premises sold for division, in the following cases: -
1. If the premises are so situated that partition thereof
cannot be made.
2. Where the premises are of such description that it would
be manifestly for the advantage of the parties that the same
should be sold instead of partitioned.
§ 4025. The application for a sale of the premises is made
by bill or petition, under the same rules and regulations that
overn the application for partition. .
§ 4026. When the estate to be divided is situated in several
counties, the court may decree a sale of all the land, as well
that situated in the county where the bill is ﬁled as in any
other.c0unty in the State. _ _
§ 4027. The application may be in the alternative for part1
, , , . . . .
tion, if practicable or adVisable, and if otherWise tor a sale.
§ 4028. Even if the application is for partition only, the
court may, upon the answers of the defendants ashiiig a sale,
and satisfactory cause shown, decree a sale for d1V1sion.
§ 4029.-The petition or bill may also be amended at any.
stage of the cause, so as to pray a sale, if the parties think
it for their interest. 
§ 4030. If the commissioners appointed to make partition
report that the Premises, or any portion thereof, are so sit
uated that a partition cannot be made without great prejudice
to the owners, the court may, if satisﬁed that the report is
just and correct, order a sale of the premises, whether prayed
for or not in the petition, or asked by the defendant.
§ 4031. The court may direct the sale to be made for cash,
or on such credit as may be deemed most for the interest of
all the parties.
§ 4032. The installments of purchase money shall be se
cured by note, with good personal security, and a lien re
tained on the land until the whole amount is paid.
§ 4033. The rights of the parties shall be settled b the
judgment or decree of the court, and the proceeds divided in
accordance therewith.
§ 4034. The court, upon conﬁrmation of the sale, divests title and vests it as in other cases of sale of real estate by de- 11
cree of court, under the provisions of this Code.
§ 4035. The lien for the purchase money subsists until the
whole is paid, notwithstandin any omission to reserve such
lien, either in the decree or titﬁzs made in compliance with the
orders of the court.
§ 4036. The court may, with the assent of the person enti
tled to an estate in dower, or by courtesy, or for life, to the
whole or any part of the premises, who is a party to the pro
ceedings, sell such estate with the rest.
§ 4037. If such person is incapable of giving assent, the
court may determine, under all the circumstances, and tak
ing into view the interest of all the parties, whether such es
tate ought to be excepted from the sale, or sold.
§ 4038. When such interest is sold, the value thereof may
be ascertained and paid over in gross, or the proper propor
tion of the fund invested, and the income paid over to the
party during the continuance of the estate.
§ 4039. If the person entitled to any such estate in dower k
by the curtesy, or for life, be unknown, the court may de
termine whether the estate shall be sold or not, as in the case
of persons under disability; and, in the event of sale, make
such order for the protection of the rights of such person in
\ the same manner, as far as may be, as if the person were
known and had appeared.
§ 4040. It is the duty of the parties, when a sale is applied
for or ordered, to disclose any encumbrance upon the prem
ses, or any part thereof.
§ 4041. Either party, or the purchaser after sale, may have
a reference to ascertain whether there are any encumbrances
on the premises; the costs of which reference will be borne
by the person applying, unless an encumbrance is discovered
which the party failed to disclose as required in the last sec
tion, and then by the party failing to disclose.
§ 4042. If it appears by the report that there are any exist
ing encumbrances upon the estate or interest in the premises
of any party named in the proceedings, the court may direct
the same to be paid out of the share of the party in the
funds, or order a credit to be given the purchaser for the
amount of such encumbrance.
§ 4043. If the party dispute the validity of the supposed
encumbrance, the purchaser may, by petition, compel such
party and the supposed encumbrancer to interplead, unless
the party produce and ﬁle a disclaimer or receipt from such
supposed encumbrapcer. '
§ 4044. The proceedings to ascertain and settle the amount
of encumbrances as herein provided, shall not affect any other
party in the suit, nor delay the paying over or investing of
moneys to, or for the beneﬁt of any party, upon whose estate
in the premises there appears to be no encumbrance.
§ 4045. Sales made without reference to the encumbrances
are subject thereto, and do not affect the right of such en
cumbrancers in any way.
§ 4046. Nothing herein contained shall be held to deprive a
purchaser of any rights he may have to be relieved of a sale,
by reason of an encumbrance not made known at the sale.,
§ 4047. The shares of adults not under any disability, in
the proceeds of sale made for partition, after deducting the
proportion of costs to be borne by such shares, shall be paid
over to such parties or their order. I
§ 4048. If any of the parties are infants, the court shall
direct the disposition of the shares of such parties, and may
order that the money be paid over to the general guardian,
upon his giving bond, with good security to cover, the fund,
or laid out in the purchase of other lands for such minors, or
otherwise ermanently invested.
§ 4049. he court shall, in like manner, direct the disposi
tion of the shares of other parties laboring under the disa
bilities of coverture or nnsoundness of mind, and, upon
proper application, order a reinvestment in other property,
for the beneﬁt of such parties.
§ 4050. A married woman may, in person, receive the
money, or, upon privy examination by the court, or by any
person commissioned to take such examination, direct how
the same shall be paid or invested, which direction shall be
reduced to writing, and entered on the minutes of the court.
See 7 Heis., 681; 3 Lea, 512;'8 Lea, 39; 1 Tenn. Chy., 278.
§ 4051. She may also, by power of attorney, duly executed
by her with her husband, upon privy examination as in
other cases, authorize and direct the money to be paid or in
vested as they may see proper, which power of attorney shall
' be ﬁled with'the papers, and form a part of the record of the
cause.
§ 4052. Where any of the parties are absent from the State,
are without legal representatives in this State, or are not
known or named in the proceedings, the court will direct the
shares of such parties to be invested in permanent securities
at interest, for the beneﬁt of such parties, until claimed by
them or their legal representatives.
§ 4053. The court may, Whenever the nature of the case de
mands, require all, or any of the parties, before they shall re
ceive any share of the moneys arising from a sale under the
provisions of this chapter, to give approved security, in such
sum as the court may direct, to refund such share, with inter
est thereon, in case it should thereafter appear that such party
was not entitled thereto.
§ 4054. The court of chancery may, for and on behalf of
persons laboring under the disability of coverture and infancy,
consent to and decree a sale of the property, real or personal,
of such persons, under the provisions of this chapter.
§ 4055. The application may be made by bill or petition,
ﬁled by the husband or regular guardian, to which the person
under disabilityis a defendant, to be represented by next
friend or guardian ad litem, as the case may be; and the court
is authorized, in all cases, to appoint such representatives as
uardians ad litem are appointed, and to take such security
from them as may be deemed necessary to protect the inter
ests of the parties to the action.
§ 4056. The infant, if over fourteen years .Pof age, and the
married woman, shall answer the bill in, person.
§ 4057. Such bill or petition may, in all cases, be ﬁled Where
the property, real or personal, sought to be disposed of, is, or
where the person laboring under disability at the time re
sides, at the option of the party commencing the action.
operty, and whether the interest or estate of the party un
der disability, or any of' the parties litigant, is in possession,
reversion, or remainder, or subject to any limitation, restric
tion, or contingency whatsoever.
§ 4059. The interests of persons of unsound mind in expect
ancy, may also be sold, as provided in regard to their other
property in sections 4466-4469.
§ 4060. In all such cases, the pleadings shall set forth fully
and particularly the age, circumstances, and condition of the
party under disability; what other property, if any, such
person owns, or is in any way entitled to, and the cause or
reason why a sale of the particular property is sought; and
such pleadin s shall be sworn to.
§ 4061. If t e person under disability is not represented by
counsel, the court shall appoint counsel for such person, and
ﬁx the compensation, which shall be the same whether a sale
is ordered or not, and shall in no event exceed one hundred
dollars.
§ 4062. The propriety of the relief sought shall appear to
the satisfaction of the court, by proof of facts established by
unexceptionable and disinterested Witnesses, and not by
statements of opinion.
§ 4063. The questions put to the witnesses shall be such as
to elicit the whole truth, and may, if necessary, be prescribed
by the court; and the testimony shall be full, ample, and sat
isfactory, and leave no reasonable doubt on the mind of the
court as to the propriety of granting the relief sought.
§ 4064. Such sale may be decreed—
]. Wthn it is necessary for the support, education, and
maintenance of the person under disability.
2. When it is manifestly for the interest of such person.
Case where not regarded for interest of minors. 1 Bax., 302.
§ 4065. It is the duty of the court, in all such cases, to see
that the requirements of this chapter are fully complied with,
and not to give consent, or to order the sale of the property
of any person under disability, without a full understanding
of the circumstances and condition of such person, and with
out being fully satisﬁed that the case for a sale is clearly
made out.
§ 4066. In order to prevent unnecessary or wrongful appli
. . .
cations, the court may charge the next friend, guardian, or
committee, or other person voluntarily making the applica
cation, personally with the costs of an unsuccessful applica-I
tion, including the counsel fees of any counsel appointed by
the court under the provisions of this chapter.
§ 4067. If the provisions of this chapter have been sub
stantially complied with, the purchaser of the property will
get a good title, although the court may have erred in its
conclusions from the facts, and the decree may subsequently
be reversed or set aside upon any proceeding for the correc
tion of errors.
§ 4068. Property so limited that persons not in bein may
have an estate or interest therein, may also be sold on er the
provisions of this chapter, if all those interested then in being
are before the court, and it is satisfactorily shown to be neces
sary, or manifestly for the interest of such persons then in
being, having a common interest with those who may come
into being.
§ 4069. In sales made under the provisions of this chapter,
the court shall see that the proceeds of sale are reinvested
in lands, or bonds of- this State or of the United States, or
loaned on good mortgages on realty, for the beneﬁt of the
persons under disability or not in being, and held in the same
manner, and subject to the same rules of descent and distri
bution, as the property which was sold.
§ 4070. No guardian, next friend, or Witness, in such cause,
shall purchase at such sale, or at any time afterwards, until
ﬁve years from' the removal of the existing disabilities; and
if any such person should make such purchase the original
sale shall become void, and the infant or married woman
may bring ejectment for the land, as if no sale had been
made.
§ 4071. In no case shall property be sold if it be claimed
under a will which expressly dlrects otherwise.
§ 4072. No person shall enter upon or into any lands, tene
ments, or other possessions, and detain or hold the same, but
where entry is given by law, and then only in a peaceable
manner.
§ 4073. A forcible entry and detainer is where a person, by
force or strong band, or with weapons, or by breaking open
the doors, windows, or other parts of the house, whether any
person be in it or not, or by any kind of violence whatsoever,
enters upon lands, tenements, or ossessions, in the occupation
of another, and detains and hol s the same; or by threaten
ing to kill, maim, or beat the party in possession; or by such
words, circumstances, or actions, as have a natural tendency
to excite fear or apprehension of danger; or by putting out
of doors or carrying away the goods of the party in possession;
or by entering peaceably and then turning or keeping the party
out of possession by force or threats or other circumstances
of terror. 
§ 4074. A forcible detainer is where a person enters law
fully or peaceably, and holds unlawfully, and by any of the
means enumerated in the foregoing section as constituting a
forcible entry.
§ 4075. Unlawful detainer is where the defendant enters by
contract, either as tenant or as assignee of a tenant, or as per
sonal representative of a tenant, or as sub-tenant, or by col
lusion with a tenant, and in either case, wilfully and without
force, holds over the possession from the landlord, or the as
signee of the remainder or reversion.
§ 4076 The preceding sections extend to and comprehend terms for years, and all estates, whether freehold or less than freehold.

§ 4077. All cases of forcible entry and detainer, forcible de
tainer, and unlawful detainer, may be tried before any one
justice of the peace of the county in which the acts are com
mitted.
§ 4078. The uninterrupted occupation or quiet possession of
the premises in controversy by the defendant, for the space.
of three entire years too'ether, immediately preceding the
commencement of the action, is, if the estate of the defendant
has not determined within that time, a bar to any proceeding
under this article.
§ 4079. The party complaining is required, before the issul
ance of the writ, to ive bond, with good security, to pay all
costs and damages w ich shall accrue to the defendant for
the wrongful prosecution 'of the suit.
§ 4080. The warrant may be issued by a single
the following form:
STATE or TENNESSEE,
County. .
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County:
Whereas, complaint is made to me by A. B., of a certain
forcible and unlawful entry and detainer, made by C. D., in
to and of a certain tract or lot of land, situated in the county'
afore said, and bounded (or known and described) as follows,
(insert boundaries and description , which land A. B., alleges
he is entitled to the possession o , and O. D., unlawfully de
tains from him, we therefore command you to summon C.
D., to appear before justice of the peace, in and for said
county, to answer the above complaint. This vda of
, 18—. E. F., J. .
§ 4081, The warrant need not set forth the particular spe
cies of entry or detainer, but may be in the form given in the
last section in all cases, and any defect therein, or in any of'
the proceedlngs, may be amended as other process and plead
ings in court.
§ 4082, No notice to quit need be given by the plaintiff to
the defendant, other than the service of the warrant.
§ 4083. The ofﬁcer serving the warrant will notify the de
fendant of the time and place of trial, the time not to be less
than six days from the date of service.
§ 4084. The cause will be tried at the time and place desig
nated, by a single justice without the intervention of a jury,
and in all respects like other civil suits before justices of the
peace.
§ 4085. The justice will try every case upon its merits, with
out regard to matters of form, and ascertain whether the
laintiﬁ or defendant is entitled to the possession of the prem
1ses agreeably t0 the laws overning such cases. and give judg
ment accordiu ly. But t e estate, or merits of the title, shall
not be in aired into.
§ 4086. [he justice may, at the request of either party,
and on good reason being assigned, postpone the trial to any
time not exceeding ﬁfteen days, the party making the appli
cation paying the cost.
§ 4087. The justice before whom the complaint is made
may issue subpmna, for witnesses into any county of the
State. _
§ 4088. The judgment for the plaintiff should be endorsed
on the warrant, or annexed thereto, substantially to the fol
lowing effect:
Judgment for the
A. B. (plaintiff that he be restored to
vs. possession of the lan described in the within war
C. D. rant, and that a writ of possession or restitution issue
therefor, and also for the costs of suit. This day of
, 18—. E. F., J. P.
§ 4089. The execution for costs will issue in the usual form,
and the writ of possession as follows:
STATE OF Tennessss,
County.
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said Count :
Whereas, at a trial of forcible and unlawfuldetainer had
in said county, on the —- day of , ]8-—. before E. F., a
justice of the peace of said county, judgment was given that
A. B., recover from C. D., possession of a certain tract or
parcel of land bounded (or known and described) as follows:
(insert the description in the warrant) \Ve, therefore, com
mand you. that you take with you the force of the county, if
necessary, and cause the said A. 13., the plaintiff in said
judgment, to have. and be restored to, the possession of said
tract or parcel of land, and that you remove the said C. D.,
the defendant in said judgment, therefrom, and give the said
plaintiff peaceable possession of said premises, and make re
turn to me in twenty days how you have executed this writ.
This — day of , 18—. E. F., J. P.
§ 4090. An appeal will lie in suits commenced before jus
tices, under the provisions of this chapter, within the two
days allowed by law, as in other cases. 
§ 4091. N0 execution or writ of possession shall issue against
the defendant upon any judgment, under these provisions,
until after the lapse of ﬁve days from the rendition of the
FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.
judgment.
§ 4092. Whenever judgment shall be rendered in favor of
the plaintiff, in any action of forcible entry and detainer,
forcible detainer or unlawful detainer, brou ht before a jus
tice of the peace, and a writ of possession s all be awarded,
the same shall be executed and the plaintiff restored to the
possession immediately; Provided, that if the defendant pray
an appeal, then, in that case, the plaintiff shall execute bond,
with good and suﬂicient security, in double the value of one
year’s rent of the .premises, conditioned to pay all costs and
damages accruing from the wrongful enforcement of said
I writ, and to abide by and perform whatever judgment may
be rendered by the appellate court in the ﬁnal hearing of the
cause.
§ 4093. The proceedings in such actions may, within thirty
days after the rendition of judgment, be removed to the,cir
cuit court by writs of certz'orari and superserleas, which it shall
be the duty of the judge to grant, upon petition, if merits are
sufﬁciently set forth, and to require from the applicant a
bond, with security suﬂicient to cover all costs and damages;
and, if the-defendant below be the applicant, then the bond
and security shall be of sufﬁcient amount to cover, beside
costs and damages, the'value 0f the rent of the premises dur
ing the litigation.
§ 4094. If the defendant obtain the certiorari, and, upon the
trial in the circuit court, the jury ﬁnd that the plaintiff is entitled to the possession of the land, they shall also ascertain
the value of the Tents during time the plaintiff has been
kept out of possession, and such other damages as the
plaintiff is entitled to, and the court shall give judgment
against the defendant and his sureties for the amount.
§ 4095. Should the cause be taken to the circuit court by
the plaintiff, and a verdict be found in 'his favor, the jury
shall, in like manner, ascertain the value of the rents, and
the damages they may consider the plaintiff entitled to, and
return the amount in their verdict, upon which the court
shall give judgment accordingly.
§ 4096. he justice is entitled to one dollar per day for try
ing cases of forcible entry and detainer, forcible detainer, or
unlawful detainer. The ofﬁcer is entitled to one dollar for
each defendant named in the original process, and twenty
ﬁve cents for each witness summoned, and each witness shall
receive ﬁfty cents for each day’s attendance.
§ 4097. The action for the recovery of the possession of land
given in the preceding sections, may also be originally insti
tuted in the circuit court, the same forms being substantially
pursued as those prescribed, the process being issued by the
clerk, the plaintiff ﬁrst giving bond and security to answer
costs'and damages as before provided.
§ 4098. The court may, if deemed best, direct a declaration
to be ﬁled, and pleadin s made up, showing the issues that
are to be submitted to t e jury, and the cause will stand for
trial at the ﬁrst term. The jury, if they ﬁnd for the plaintiff,
will ascertain the damages he has sustained, including rent,
and judgment shall be given accordingly.
§ 4099. In the case of an appeal from the circuit court to the
Supreme Court, the provisions of sections 3977 to 3981 shall
apply to cases of forcible entry and detainer, forcible de
tainer and unlawful detaiuer.
§ 4100. The legal heir or representative of the person who
might have been plaintiff, if alive, may bring the suit after
his death.
§ 4101. If either party die during the pendency of the suit,
it may be revived by or against the heirs or legal represuta
tives of the decedent, in the same manner and to the same
extent as real actions.
§ 4102. A person, once dispossessed by action, who again
illegally possesses himself of the premises, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, on conviction, shall be ﬁned not less than
ﬁve nor more than ﬁfty dollars, and be imprisoned not less
than two nor more than ten days.
§ 4103. The only evidence required or admitted on the trial
of the criminal charge, is that the defendant was turned out
of possession by action brought for the purpose, and that he
has again taken possession of the premises.
§ 4104. The judgment in a case of forcible entry and de
tainer shall be no bar to an action against the defendant for
trespass.
§ 4105. Any ofﬁcer neglecting or refusing to execute any
process under this article, shall forfeit two hundred and ﬁfty
dollars to the party aggrieved, to be recovered with costs be
fore any tribunal having jurisdiction thereof.
§ 4106. Any person granting a lease of lands, tenements and
hereditaments, may take from the tenant a bond covenanting
to deliver possession of the rented premises on the day
speciﬁed therein as the end of the term of the lease, and
further authorizing the party from whom the premises are
rented, or any other person whose name may be mentioned
as attorney, in case possession of the premises is not given
up and delivered in conformity with the provisions of said
lease, to appear on any day of the term of any court having
jurisdiction in such cases—tlie'term of said court to be ex
pressly named, and the premises to be sufﬁciently described
in said bond—and then there in the name of the party ex
ecuting said bond, confess a judgment for possession of said
rented premises.
§ 4107. Upon presentation of said bond, and satisfactory
proof of its execution, the court shall enter judgment for
possession and also for costs of the proceeding, in favor of
the party granting said lease against said tenant thus unlaw
fully holding over.
§ 4108. The writ of possession shall have force and effect to
dispossess any party in possession, who holds as assignee, or
sub-lessee of the original tenant.
§ 4109. In commencing an action under the provisions of
this chapter, summons may be served upon any adult per
son, male or female, found in possession of the premises;
and service of said process upon the party in possession, shall
be good and sufﬁcient to enable the landlord to regain posses
sion of his property.
§ 4110. Where goods or chattels are wrongfully seized or
detained, the owner may institute an action of re levin in
the circuit court against the person so seizing or etaining
the same.
§ 4111. The action may be brought in any county in which
the goods and chattels, or any part of them, are, or in which
either of the defendants may be found.
§ 4112. The plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall ﬁle with
the clerk of the court an aﬂidavit, sworn to before said clerk,
statinrg—
1. hat, according to the aﬁiant’s information and belief,
the plaintiff is entitled to the possession of the property pro
posed to be replevied, describing it with reasonable certainty;
2. That the defendant has seized, or that he detains the
same;
3. That said property was not subject to such seizure, de
tention, 0r execution; and demanding the writ of replevin.
§ 4113. He shall also, at the same time,
the value of the property, payable to the efendant, and con
ditioned to be void if the plaintiff abide by and perform the
'judgment of the court in the premises.
§ 4114.- The clerk will value the property according to the
description in the afﬁdavit,f0r the purpose of ﬁxing the pen
alty of the bond.
§ 4115. The writ of replevin will direct the proper ofﬁcer to
summon the defendant to answer the plaintiff wherefore he
detains his goods and chattels, describing them as in the aﬁi
davit, and also to take the property out of the possession of
the defendant and deliver the same to the plaintiff.
§ 4116. Counterparts of the writ of replevin may issue, upon
suggestion of the plaintiff, to any other county, to be executed
upon goods, or served upon defendants found in such county.
§ 4117. The court has power to order the issuance of alias
and pluries writs of replevin, and the necessary counterparts
thereof, as often as may 'be neeessar .
§ 4118. The writ may be executedY by seizing the goods or
summoning the defendant, at any time before the ﬁrst day of
the term of the court to which it is returnable.
§ 4119. If the ofﬁcer’s return is, that he has summoned the
defendant, but could not get possession of the goods and
chattels sued for, the plaintiﬁ may elect to roceed in case °
or detinue, and then the cause shall be con ucted as if the
leading process had been in one of those forms; or, the
plaintiff may sue out an alias and pluries writ of replevin, in
order to get possession _of the goods.
§ 120. If the ofﬁcer’s return is, that he has taken osses
sion of the goods and chattels sued for, but that the efend
ant is not to be found, the plaintiff may sue out an alias and
pluries writ of replevin, directed to the county where the de
fendant resides, to have serVice upon the defendant.
§ 4121. Should the defendant, or any defendant, be a non
resident of the State, the ofﬁcer shall return the fact, and the
court shall order publication to be made, four successive
weeks, in some newspaper published in the division of the
State in which the suit is pending; which publication shall
state the names of the parties, and brieﬂy set forth the nature
of the writ.
§ 4122. The plaintiff may ﬁle his declaration when the writ
is returned duly served on the defendant, or the. alias and
plurics writs are returned without service, or publication has
been duly made. On personal service, if the defendant fails
to enter his appearance, the plaintiff may have judgment by
default and writ of inquiry as in other cases.
' 4123.'It’ there be no personal service, the court shall em
panel a jury and try the cause as though the defendant had
ﬁled his plea.
§ 4124. The defendant may plead not guilty, in which case
all special matter of defense may be given in evidence, or he
may plead specially.
§ 4125. On the issue being found for the plaintiff, or, in case
of default, upon writ of inquiry, the jury will ascertain the
plaintiff’s damages for the seizure and detention, and judg
ment will be rendered therefor with costs.
§ 4126. If the issue is found for the defendant, or the
plaintiff dismisses or fails to prosecute his suit, the judgment
shall be that the goods be returned to the defendant, or, on
failure, that the defendant recover their value, with interest
thereon, and damages for the detention, the value of the
property and the damages to be assessed by the jury trying
the cause, or, where he plaintiﬁ' fails to prosecute, by a
jury empaneled for the purpose.
§ 4127. The jury may, in proper cases, give exemplary dam
ages in favor of either party; and, in all cases where the
p aintiﬁ' fails to prosecute his suit with effect, they may make
such valuation as will be likely to effect a return of the prop
erty to the defendant, if the character of the property is such
as to make the return of the speciﬁc property important.
§ 4128. After the return of the writ, if it appear that the
bond is insufﬁcient in form, amount of penalty, or in respect
to the solvency of the sureties, the court may remedy the
defect by such orders as are necessary, and may hold the
plaintiff in custody till said orders are complied with; and
the codrt may make such other orders as may be considered
expedient to secure the rights of the plaintitt or defendants.
§ 4129. The clerk shall not be exempt, by- reason of such or
ders made by the court, from liability for any damages pro
ceeding from his failure to take good and suﬁicient security.
§ 4130. When the property taken or detained does not ex
ceed ﬁve hundred dollars in value the suit may be brought
before any justice of the peace.
§ 4131. The method of obtaining the writ shall be the same
as when the suit is prosecuted in court; and the following
shall be the form of the writ:
STATE or Tennessee,
County. ‘
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County: .
I command you to summon to appear before me, or
some otherjustice of said county, to answer the complaint
of' , for unlawfully taking out of" his possession and de
taining from him, (describe the property,) the property of
the said . ,
And I also command you to take said property out of the
possession of the said , and deliver the same to the said
—-, he having given bond and security vas required by law.
This —— day of —-, 123—. E. F., J. P.
§ 4132. Any constable may execute this writ; and in exer
cising this power, shall be overned by the laws regulating
sheriﬁ‘s in the execution 0 a writ of replevin issued by a
court.
§ 4133. If the justice adjudge the property to belong to the
defendant, and the plaintiff fail or refuse to deliver it up to
the defendant, the justice shall render judgment against the
plaintiff and his sureties for double the value of the roperty
repleVied, and execution shall forthwith issue for t e same
and the cost of suit.
§ 4134. Either party may appeal from the justice’s judgment
to the circuit court within two days after the judgment is
rendered, on giving bondin double the value of the property
replevied, payable to the opposite party, conditioned to prose
cute the appeal with eﬁ'ect, and to abide by and perform the
judgment of the circuit court.
§ 4135. The following fees shall be allowed in such suit:
To the justice for issuing the writ _____________________________________ “$1 00
For rendering the judgment ________________________________________ __ 50
To the constable for executing the writ ______________________________ __ 1 00
§ 4136. Any words written, spoken, or printed of a person,
wrongfully and maliciously iniputing to such person the
commission of adultery or fornication, are actionable, Without
special damage.
§ 4137. If any person challenged to ﬁght a duel, decline to
accept the challenge, and the author or bearer charge him
WIth being a coward, poltroon, or use other words insinuating
such charges, whether spoken to a third person or published
in a newspaper or printed notice, such words are slanderous,
on which an action may be supported against the speaker or
publisher.
§ 4138. Where the verdict in slander is under ﬁve dollars,
.. .
the plaintiff shall recover no more costs than damages.
§ 4139. In all suits brought for the recovery of damages resulting
from any nuisance, and the ﬁnding that the matter
complained of is a nuisance, the court may immediately,
upon petition of the plaintiff in writing, order the nuisance
to be abated in the same manner and to the same extent as
the chancery courts, without resort to a court of equity for
that purpose.
§ 4140. In all suits for the recovery of damages occasioned
by the overﬂowing of water, by the erection of a dam for a
grist or saw-mill, or other water-Works of utility, the plaintiff
if successful, shall be entitled to full cests, unless his damages
do not exceed ﬁve dollars, in which case he shall not recover
more costs than damages.
§ 4141. Any person goin into possession of land under a
parol agreement to pure ase, which agreement is subsequently
avoided by him, is liable for waste committed during
his possession, as well as for reasonable rent.
§ 4142. Nothing in this chapter contained shall deprive the
person entitled to redress for waste, of the right to enjoin
the commission thereof at any time, and recover damages for
the waste actually committed.
§ 4143. Any railroad contractor who, by himself, agent, or
operatives shall wrongfully cut down, appropriate, or other-
wise destroy any growing timber or wood, or any fence rails
on ground not belonging to the railroad company, shall be
liable in damages to t e party injured, whether the wrong he
committed by such contractor, his agent, or operatives.
. 4144. It is a good plea to an action for trespass on land,
that the defendant disclaims all title to the land, that the
trespass was by nein ence or involuntary, and that he ten
dered sufﬁcient amen s for the same before action brought.
§ 4145. When any person entitled to sue for injuries to real
roperty shall die before commencing action, it shall be law
ul for the personal representatives of said party to sue and
recover for the beneﬁt of the deceased.
§ 4146. An action lies, under the provisions of this chapter,
in the name of the State, against the person or corporation
offending, in the following cases:
1. Whenever any person unlawfully holds or exercises any
public office or franchise within this State, or any oﬂice in
any corporation created by the laws of this State.
2. Whenever any public ofﬁcer has done or suffered to be
done any act which works a forfeiture of his ofﬁce.
3. When any persons act as a corporation within this State,
without being authorized by law.
4. Or if, being incorporated, they do or omit acts which
amount to a surrender or forfeiture of their rights and privi
leges as a corporation.
5. Or exercise powers not conferred by law. I
6. Or fail to exercise powers conferred by law and essential
to the corporate existence.
§ 4147. The action, also, lies to bring the directors, man
agers and oﬂicers of a corporation, or the trustees of funds
given for a public or charitable purpose, to an account for
- the management and disposition of property intrnsted to
their care; to remove such oﬂicers or trustees on proof of
misconduct; to prevent malversation, peculation and waste;
to set aside and restrain improper alienations of such prop
erty or funds, and to secure them for the beneﬁt of those
interested; and generally to compel faithful performance of
duty.
§ 4148. The suit is brought by bill in equity, ﬁled either in
the circuit or chancery courtof the county or division 1n
which the oﬂice is usurped or held, or the corporation or sup
posed corporation holds its meetings, or has its principal
place of business.
§ 4149. The suit is brought by the attorney-general for the
district or county, when directed so to do by the General As
sembly, or by the Governor and Attorney-general of the State
concurring.
§ 4150. It- is also brought on the information of any person,
upon such person giving security for the costs of the pro
ceedings, to be approved by the clerk of the court in which
the bill is ﬁled.
§ 4151. \Vhen the suit brought at the relation of a private
individual, it shall be so stated in the bill and proceedings,
and such individual is responsible for costs in case they are
not adjudged against the defendant.
§ 4152. The bill will set forth brieﬂy, and without technical
forms, the grounds upon which the suit is instituted, and the
suit will be conducted as other suits in equity.
§ 4153. Such issues of fact as may become. necessary to try
by jury in the progress of the cause. will be made up under
the direction of the court, and submitted to ajury empaneled
forthwith.
§ 4154. The court is authorized, upon the ﬁling of the bill,
properly veriﬁed, in all proper cases, to grant attachments
and injunctions, and appoint receivers to eﬂect the ends of
justice, and to make all such orders, rules and decrees, ac
cording to the practice of a court of chancery, as may be
necessary to accomplish the objects had in view.
§ 4155. The defendants appear and answer the bill in the
usual way, and such answer shall not be read against them
in any criminal prosecution brought against them, or either
of them.
§ 4156. Whenever the action is brought against a person for
usurping an oﬂice, in addition to the other allegations, the
name of the person rightfully entitled to the ofﬁce, with a
statement of his ri ht thereto, may be added, and the trial
should, if practieab 0, determine the right of the contesting
parties.
§ 4157. If judgment is rendered in favor of such claimant,
the court may order the defendant to deliver to him, upon
his qualifyin as required by law, all books and papers be
longing to t e ofﬁce in his (defendant’s) custody, or under
his control, and such claimant may thereupon proceed to ex
ercise the functions of the ofﬁce.
§ 4158. Such claimant, in this event, may also, at any time
within one year-thereafter, bring suit against the defendant,
and recover the damages he has sustained by reason of the
act of the defendant.
§ 4159. When several persons claim to be entitled to the
same oﬂice or franchise, they may be all made defendants, so
as to determine their respective rights.
§ 4160. The validity of any election which may be contested
under this Code, cannot be tried under the provisions of this chapter. 
§ 4161. When a defendant, whether a natural person or a
corporation, is adjudged guilty of usurping, unlawfully hold
ing or exercising any ofﬁce or franchise,judgment shall be
rendered that such defendant be excluded from the ofﬁce or
franchise, and that he pay the costs.
§ 4162. If it be adjudged that a defendant corporation has,
by neglect, non-user, abuse or surrender, forfeited its corpor
ate rights,judgment will be rendered that the defendant be
altogether excluded from such rights and be dissolved; and
also that the corporation, its directors or managers, as the
case may be, pay the costs.
§ 4163. Such judgment of dissolution does not extinguish
the debts due to or from the corporation, but the court shall
appoint a receiver, with full power toltake possession of all
the debts and property, and sell, dispose of, collect and dis
tribute the same among the creditors and other persons, in
terested, under the orders of the court.
§ 4164. If such action is at the suit of the State alone, and
judgment is for the defendant, or the defendants are in
solvent, the costs are paid as in other State cases.
§ 4165. Should the relator die pending the action, the suit
abates, unless by the second term thereafter it is revived in
the name of some person who, on application, and giving
security for costs, is substituted in the place of the decease
relator. If there are several relators, the suit abates only on
the death of all.
§ 4166. On the abatement of the action as above, judgment
is rendered against the suretics of the relator for the costs.
§ 4167. Either party is entitled to take the case to the Sn
preme Court for the correction of errors, as in other chancery cases.
§ 4168. A corporation is not dissolved by the non-use or as-
signment to others, in whole or in part, of its powers, franchises,
and privileges, unles all the corporate property has
been appropriated to the payment of its debts; and any credi
tor, for himself and other creditors, whether he has recovered
judgment or not, or any stockholder, for himself and other
stockholders, may ﬁle a bill under the provisions of this chapter, to attach the corporate property, and have such
property applied to the payment of the debts of the corpora
tion, and any surplus divided among the stockholders.
§ 4169. All causes of action, whether there be a suit pending
therefor or not, may be submitted to the decision of one or
more arbitrators, as hereinafter provided.
§ 4170. The submission may be made by an party in in
terest, or by an executor, administrator, guar ian, trustee, or
assignee for creditors, or it may be made by a trustee for a
married woman, with her consent made in open court and
entered of record, or by writing proved by privy examination
as in case of conveyance.
§ 4171, 'The submission shall be by written agreement, speci—
fying what demands are to be submitted, the names of the
arbitrators, and the court by which the judgment on their
award is to be rendered.
§ 4172. The submission may be of some particular matters
or demands, or of all demands which one party has against
the other, or of all mutual demands.
§ 4173. The agreement may specify that the submission be
entered of record in any court of law of equity, or, in cases
within their jurisdiction, before a justice of the peace.
§ 4174. On proof of such agreement, or by consent of par
ties in person, or by counsel, it shall be entered in the pro
ceedings of the court, or on the (locket of the justice, and an
order made that the parties submit to the award, which shall
be made in pursuance of such agreement.
§ 4175. Upon such proof or consent, the judge may, in
vacation, make upon the agreement the order mentioned in
the last section, and such order shall have the same force and
effect as if madein term.
§ 4176. N0 such submission shall be revocable after the
agreement is signed by the parties, or entered of record, with
out leaVe of the court or justice, except by mutual consent
entered of record.
§ 177. If the time within which the award is to be made is
ﬁxed in the submission, no award made after that time shall
have any legal eﬂ'ect, unless made upon a recommitmcnt by
the court; the court may, however, enlarge the time within
which an award is to be madel
§ 4178. It' the time of ﬁling the award is not ﬁxed in the
submission, it shall be ﬁled within eight months from the
time such submission is signed, unless by mutual consent the
time is prolonged.
§ 4179. The arbitrators shall give notice of the time and M
place of ﬁnal hearing, which notice shall be served at least
ve days before the day of trial.
§ 4180. In all submission cases, depositions may be taken E
to be used before the arbitrators, and witnesses may be sum
moned by subpoena, to be issued by the clerk of the court, or
justice, as in other cases.
§ 4181. These witnesses may be sworn by the arbitrator, and 0
if guity of false swearing, they are liable to all the penalties
of perjury, as if sworn in court.
§ 4182. Witnesses are also subject to all the penalties pre- W
scribed by law, for failing to attend and give testimony, in
pursuance of the subpoena, as well as in damages to the party
injured by their default; and, on the other hand, they are
entitled to like privileges and like compensation as other
witnesses. The forfeiture shall be enforced as provided in
§ 4578.
§ 4183. The award shall be in writing, and should be deliv-
ered by one of the arbitrators to the court desi nated in the
agreement, or it may be enclosed and sealed y them, and
transmitted to the court, and not opened until the court
orders.
§ 4184. The cause will be entered on the docket and called
up and acted upon in its order; but the court may require
actual notice to be given either party, when it appears neces
sary and'proper, before proceeding to act on the award.
§ 4185, he award may be rejected by the court for any
legal and suﬂicient reasons, or it may be _recommitted for a
re
learing, to the same, or any other arbitrators agreed upon
by the parties.
§ 4186. When the award is adopted,-it is ﬁled and entered
on the records, and judgment will be rendered, and execu
tlon, or other necessary process, awarded accordingly.
§ 4187. The same parties who are entitled to enter into an
a reement of submission to arbitration, may, in like manner,
Wlth or without action brought, agree upon a case containing
the facts upon which the controversy depends, and submit the
same to the circuit or chancery court of the county in which
either of the parties resides, or in which a suit might have
been brought to determine such controversy.
§ 4188. It must appear by the aﬁidavit of the parties or their
attorneys. that the controversy is real, and the proceeding in
good faith, to determine the rights of the parties.
§ 4189. The judgment or decree will be entered as in other
cases, and no objection will lie to the jurisdiction of the cir
cuit or chancery court, whether the matter be of legal or
equitable cognizance. ,
§ 4190. The parties will give bond and security for the costs
of an agreed case, unless they pay the clerk’s fees and State
tax in advance; and all costs incurred will be borne equally
by the parties, unless they agree that the costs shall abide the
event of the cause.
§ 4191. The parties to submission and agreed cases, are entitled to all the beneﬁts of the proceedings for the correction
of errors.
§ 4192. Any person having a debt or demand due at the
commencement of an action, or having a claim for damages
for a tort; or, a plaintiff, after action for any cause has been
brought, and either before or after judgment, may sue out an
attachment at law or in equity against the property of a
debtor or defendant in the following cases:
1. \Vhere the debtor or defendant resides out of the State.
2. \Vhere he is about to remove, or has removed himself
or prplperty from the State.
3. here he has removed, or is removing himself out of
the county privately.
4. Where he conceals himself, so that the ordinary process
of law cannot be served upon him.
5. Where he absconds, or is absconding, or concealing
himself or property. -
6. Where he has fraudulently disposed of, 0r~ is about
fraudulently to dispose of, his property.
7. Where any person liable for any debt or demand, re
siding out of the State, dies, leaving property in the State.
§ 4193, \thn the debtor and creditor are both non-resi
dents of this State, and residents of the same State, the
creditor shall not have attachment against the property of
his debt-or unless he swear that the property of the debtor
has been fraudulently removed to this State to evade the pro
cess of law in the State of their domicil or residence.
§ 4194, An attachment may, in like manner, be sued out
upon debts or demands not due, in any of the cases mentioned
in the preceding section except thebﬁrst, when the debtor or
defendant resides out of the State.
§ 4195. Any accommodation endorser or surety may, in like
manner, sue out an attachment against the roperty of his
principal, as a security for his liability, whet 1er the debt on
which he is bound be due or not. 
§ 4196. But no ﬁnal judgment or decree shall be rendered
upon such attachment, until the debt or demand upon which
it is based becomes due; nor shall any property levied upon
thereby-be sold, until ﬁnal jud ment or decree, except prop
erty ot a perishable nature, yv ich may be sold as in other
attachment cases.
§ 4197. And the attachment by endorser or surety shall be
discharged, if the principal will give bond and security, to
be approved by the court, in term time, or its clerk in vaca
tion, to indemnify the plaintiff.
§ 4198. Suits by original attachment may be brought in
any court, or before any magistrate, having jurisdiction of
the cause of action.
§ 4199. Any person may also sue out an attachment in the
chancery court, upon debts or demands of a purely legal na
ture, except causes of action founded on torts, without ﬁrst
having recovered a judgment at law, whenever the amount
in controversy is euﬁicient to give the court jurisdiction.
§ 4200. When any non-resident having choses in action, or
other property, in this State, is indebted to another non
resident, who is himself indebted to any person, resident or
non-resident, such person, without ﬁrst having recovered a
judgment at law, may ﬁle a bill in equitiy, to have such choses
in action, or other property, attache , making said non
resident debtors, and the person in possession of such choses
in action, or other property, defendants to said bill.
§ 4201. Attachments sued out in aid of a suit already
brought, shall be made returnable to the court or justice bcfore
whom the suit is pending.
§ 4202. The attachment may be granted by any judge of the
circuit, criminal or special court, by any chancellor orjustice
of the peace, or by the clerk of the court to which the at
tachment is made returnable.
§ 4203. In all suits commenced by original attachment in
any court of record, or before a justice of the peace, it shall
be the duty of the clerk or justice issuing the attachment to
issue also, upon application of the plaintiff, a summons
against the defendant for the same cause of action; and, if
the summons is executed, no publication shall be made, and
there shall be no stay of judgment as now required by law
in attachment cases where the defendant is made a party by
attachment and publication only.
§ 4204. The summons shall be in the usual form, except
that it shall also notify the defendant that an original at
tachment suit has been commenced again-st him, an( it shall
be returned to the same court or' justice as the attachment.
§ 4205. The process of attachment issues against the prop
erty of the defendant wherever the same may be found.
§ 4206. The ofﬁcer granting the attachment may direct,
upon proper application, that counterpart writs of attach
ment issue to any county in which property of the defendant
may be found, or such counterparts may be subsequently ap-
plied for and obtained upon good cause shown.
§ 4207. In any civil action, when the summons has been re
turned “ Not to be found in my county,” as to all or any one
of the defendants, residents of the county, the plaintiff may
have an alias and pluries summons for the defendant, or, at
his election, sue ‘out attachment against the estate of such
defendant.
§ 4208. Upon the return of the attachment levied on any
property of the defendant, the cause proceeds against such
defendant, in all respects, as if originally commenced by
attachment.
§ 4209. N0 judicial attachment- shall issue a ainst the estate
of any person residing without the limits of t e State, unless
such process is grounded on an original attachment, or un
less the leadin process in the suit has been executed on the
person of the et'endant when within the State.
§ 4210. In order to obtain an attachment, the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney, shall make oath in writing, stating the
nature and amount of the debt or demand, and that it is a
just claim; and also, that one or more of the causes enume
rated in section 4192 exists.
§ 4211. It is no objection to the attachment that the bill,
afﬁdavit, or attachment states in the alternative, or otherwise,
more than one of the causes for which attachment may be
sued out.
§ 4212. The ofﬁcer to whom application (is made shall, before
granting the attachment, require the plaintiff, his agent,
or attorney to execute a bond in double the amount claimed
to be due, with sufﬁcient security, payable to the defendant,
and conditioned that the plaintiff will prosecute the attach
ment with effect, or, in case of failure, pay the defendant all
costs that may be adjudged against him, and also all such
damages as he may sustain by the wrongful suing out of the
attachment. 
§ 4213. The afﬁdavit and bond shall be ﬁled by the ofﬁcer
taking them, in the court to which the attachment is re-
turnable, and shall constitute a part of the record in the
cause.
§ 4214. The writ shall be addressed to the sheriff 0f the
county, unless the suit be before ajustice of the peace, and
then it may be addressed to a constable; and it shall com
mand him to attach and safely keep, repleviable upon secu
rity, the estate of the defendant, wherever the same may be
found in the county, or in the hands of any person indebted
to or havin any of the effects of the defendant, or so much
thereof as s all be of value suﬁicieut to satisfy the debt or de
mand, and the costs of the complaint.
§ 4215. It may be substantially in the following form:
STATE OF TENNESSEE,
County. }
To the Sheriff of County, greeting:
Whereas, A. B. (or C. 1)., as the agent or attorney of A.
B.) hath complained on oath to me, E. F., judge, (chancellor,
justice of the peace,) or clerk, that G. H. is justly indebted
(or liable) to the said A. B. in the sum of dollars; and
aﬂidavit havin also been made in writing, and bond given
as required by aw in attachment cases, you are hereby com—
manded to attach so much of the estate of the said G. H. as
will be of value sufﬁcient to satisfy the debt and costs accord
ing to the complaint; and such estate, unless replevied, so to
secure that the same may be liable to further proceedings
thereon to be held at the court, to held for the county
of , on the day next, (or before a justice of
the peace of county, on the day of ) when
and where you will make known how you have executed
this writ.
Witness, E. F., judge of the
0f the peace, or clerk,) this
court, (chancellor, justice

§ 4216. N0 ob'ection will lie to the form of the attachment,
it the essential matters in the foregoing precedent be set
forth in such attachment.
§ 4217, Attachments issued without aﬁidavit and bond, as
herein prescribed, may be abated by plea of the defendant.
§ 4218. The attachment law shall be liberally construed, and
the plaintiﬁ, before orduring trial, shall be permitted to amend
airy defect of form in the afﬁdavit, bond, attachment, or other
proceedings; and no attachment shall be dismissed for any
defect in, or want of bond, if the plaintiff, his agent or at
torney, will substitute a sufﬁcient bond.
§ 4219. \Vhen property, choses in action, or effects of the
debtor are in the hands of third persons, or third persons are
indebted to such debtor, the attachment may be by garnishs
ment.
§ 4220. Attachment by garnishment is effected by inform
lng the debtor of the defendant, or person holding the prop
erty of the defendant, that the property in his hands is at
tached, and by leaving with him a written notice that he 1s
required to appear at the return term of the attachment, or
before a justice of the peace at a time and place ﬁxed, to
answer such questions as may be asked him touching the
property and effects of the defendant.
§ 4221. The notice should also require the defendant not to
pay any debt due by him, or thereafter to become due, and to
retain possession of all property of the defendant, then or
thereafter in his custody or under his control, to answer the
garnishment.
§ 4222. A copy of the notice served upon the garnishee
should be returned by the ofﬁcer, with the attachment and
levy, duly executed.
§ 4223. The garnishee shall be examined as prescribed in sections 3801, 3802.
§ 4224. A arnishee may, at any time after answer, exon
erate himself from further responsibility, by paying over and
delivering to the ofﬁcer before, or court after, the return of
the attachment, the money and property of the defendant, or
so much thereof as may be equal to the property directed to
be attached; and such property or money delivered or paid
over, may afterwards he treated as though attached in the
usual manner.
§ 4225. If it appears that the garnishee is indebted to the
defendant, or has property and effects of the defendant, sub
ject to the attachment, the court may, in case recovery is had
by the plaintiff against the defendant, give judgment against
the garnishee for the amount of the recovery, or of the in
debtedness and property.
§ 4226. If the debt of the garnishee to the defendant is not
due, execution will be suspended until its maturity. -
§ 4227. If, when duly summoned, the garnishee fail to ap
pear and answer the garnishment, he shall be presumed to be
indebted to the defendant to the full amount of the plaintiff’s
demand, and a conditional judgment shall be entered up
against him accordingly.
§ 4228. Upon this conditional judgment a wire facias shall
issue to the garnishee, returnable to the next term of the
court, or to a day and place ﬁxed before a justice, to show
cause why ﬁnal judgment should not be entered against him.
§ 4229. Upon the return of this scire facias duly served, or
two returns of “ Not to be found in my county,” the condi
tional judgment will be made ﬁnal, and execution issued ac
cordingly.
§ 4230. If, upon the examination of any garnishee, it ap
pears that there is any of the defendant’s estate in the hands
or under the control of any person not summoned, the court
or justice shall, upon the motion of the plaintiff, grant at
tachment, to be levied on the estate in the hands or under the
control of such person, who shall be summoned and made
liable as other garnishees.
§ 4231. The garnishee is allowed the pay and privileges of a
witness, for his attendance and answer, and all costs to be
paid by the plaintiff, subject to the provisions of section 3815.
§ 4232. If the a-rnishee die after he has been summoned in
garnishment an pending the litigation, the proceedings may
be revived by or against his heirs or legal representatives.
§ 4233. An appeal lies in all garnishment cases, at the in
stance of the plaintiff, the dcfendant, or the garnishee.
§ 4234, Thejudgmentin the garnishment suit, condemning
the property or debt in the hands of the garnishee to the sat-
isfaction of the plaintiﬁ"s demand, is conclusive as between
the garnishee and defendant.
§ 4235. The garnishee against whom ajudo'ment for money
is rendered by ajustice ot' the peace, is entit ed to the stay of
execution allowed by law on justice’sjudgments.
§ 4236. The garnishee shall not be made liable upon a debt
due by negotiable or assignable paper, unless such paper is
delivered, or the garnishee completely exonerated or indemni
ﬁed from all liability thereon, after he may have satisﬁed the
judgment or decree.
§ 4237. Constables may execute attachments returnable before
justices of the came, and in cases where the defendant
is about to absconr or remove. The provisions of this chapter in relation to the duties of attaching ofﬁcers, em
brace constables whenever they are authorized to serve attach
ments.
§ 4238. The writ of attachment should direct so much of
the property of the defendant to be attached as will he sufﬁ-
cieut to satisfy the plaintiff’s debt, or demand, and all costs.
§ 4239. The ofﬁcer to whom the writ is delivered shall at
tach and take into his possession, in the ﬁrst instance, so
much of the personal property of the defendant as may be
necessary to meet the exigency of the writ, and shall levy
the attachment, when necessary, upon the defendant’s real
estate.
§ 4240. If the ofﬁcer make an excessive levy, he shall be
liable as in case of excessive levy by execution.
§ 4241. Attachments may be levied upon any real or per
sonal property of either a legal or equitable nature, debts or
choses in action, whether due or not due, in which the de
fendant has an interest. 
§ 4242. If debts or choses in action not due are levied upon,
no ﬁnaljudgmeut or decree'shall be rendered until they be
come payable.
§ 4243. In all cases where choses in action are attached, the
oﬁicer levying the attachment may collect the same until the
writ is returned, unless otherwise ordered.
§ 4244. The court of justice before whom the suit is pend
ing, may, at any time, appoint a receiver to take possession of
property attached under the provisions of this chapter, and
to collect, manage, and control the same, and pay over the
proceeds according to the nature of the property, and exigency
of the case.
§ 4245. Perishable property may be sold by order of the
. court or justice before whom the suit is pending, “lIllESS re
plevied by the defendant.
§ 4246. If any or all of the property is of so perishable a
nature, or so expensive, as to render a sale necessary for the
interest of the parties, before the oﬂicer can make his return,
he may sell the same,~ upon advertisement as in the case of
execution sales, and make return of the facts with the pro
ceeds of sale.
§ 4247. Money attached by the ofﬁcer, or coming to his
hands by virtue of the attachment, shall forthwith be paid
over to the clerk of the court in which the suit is pending, to
be by him retained until the further action of the court.
§ 4248. Any transfer, sale or assignment, made after the
ﬁling of an attachment bill in chancery, or after the suing
out of an attachment at law, of property mentioned in the
bill or attachment, as against the plaintiff, shall be inoperative
and void.
§ 4249. If after the service upon him of copy of the bill,
or levy of the attachment at law upon debts or eﬁects in his
hands, any person should pa the debt or secrete the effects,
or purchase in any other e aim against the defendant, he
shall be liable to the same extent as before the payment,
secreting or purchase.
§ 4250. The defendant to an attachment suit may always
replevy the property attached by iviug bond, with good
security, payable to the plaintiff, in ouble the amount of the
plaintiﬁ’s demand, or at defendant’s option, in double the
value of the property attached, conditioned to pay the debt,
interest, and costs, or the value of the property attached,
with interest, as the case may be, in the event he shall be
cast in the suit.
§ 4251. The ofﬁcer levyin the attachment shall take the
bond, if tendered, at any time before he has made sale of the
property, or return of the process, in which case he will ﬁx
the value of the property, and judge of the sufﬁciency of the
security.
§ 4252. After the return of the attachment, and at any time
before sale of the property attached, the justice to whom the
writ is returned, or the clerk of the court to which return is
made, shall take the replevy bond and ﬁx the value of the
property, and judge of the suﬂiciency of the security. 
§ 4253. Replevy bonds are subject to the rules prescribed in sections 961-2.
§ 4254. The bond, if given to the ofﬁcer levyin the attach
ment, shall be returned by him with the attac ment; and,
whether given to such ofﬁcer, to the clerk or justice, it consti
tutes a part of the record.
§ 4255. The court may enter up judgment or decree upon
the bond, in the event of recovery by the laintiﬁ', against
the defendant and his sureties for the penalty of the bond,
to be satisﬁed by delivery of the property or its value, or pay
ment of the recovery, as the case may be.
§ 4256. The death or destruction of the property, without
any fault of the defendant, after the replevy, is no defense to
the liability on such bond.
§ 4257. The aﬂidavit and bond shall be returned by the
ofﬁcer granting the attachment to the tribunal to which the
attachment is made returnable.
§ 4258. Alias writs of attachment, or new writs of garnish
ment, may issue without new bond or aﬂidavit, when no
property has been found, or not sufﬁcient to satisfy the _debt,
or when, pending the suit, the plaintiff wishes to garnlshee
other persons. _
§ 4259. The oﬂicer granting the attachment may, at the
time, direct that as soon as the attachment is levied publica
tion be made in some newspaper, requiring the defendant to
appear at a time and place to be mentioned in such publl
cation, before the court or justice having cognizance of the
attachment, and defend the action thus commenced, other
wise the cause may be proceeded with ex part0.
§ 4260. If the order of publication is not then made, the
clerk of the court, the court itself, or the justice before
whom the attachment is returned, may make such order at
any time thereafter.
§ 4261. The order should be entered upon the justice’s
docket, as well as endorsed upon the papers, in all attach
ment cases returned before a magistrate. In all other cases,
the entry should be upon the minutes or rule docket of the
court.
§ 4262. As soon as the attachment is levied upon property
of the defendant, the justice, or clerk of the court, shall
make out, in pursuance of the order of publication. a mem
orandum or notice thereof, and cause the same to be published
forthwith in some convenient newspaper according to law.
§ 4263. This memorandum or notice shall contain the names
of the parties, the style of the court to which the attachment
is made returnable, the cause alleged for suing it out, and the
time and place at which the defendant is required to appear
and defend the attachment suit.
§ 4264. The publication shall be made for four consecutive
weeks in a newspaper published in the county in which the
suit is brought, if any, and if not, in some convenint news
paper to be designated in the order, the last publication to be
at least one week before the time ﬁxed for the defendant’s
appearance.
§ 4265. The attachment and publication are in lieu of per
sonal service upon the defendant, and the plaintiff may pro
ceed, upon return of the attachment duly levied, as if the
suit had been commenced by summons.
§ 4266. If the debt or demand on which the attachment
suit is brought, is not due at the time of the service of the
attachment, the plaintiff is not required to ﬁle any pleadings
until the maturity of such debt or demand.
§ 4267. Should the defendant appear in time, he may make
defense, and the cause proceed as if the suit had been com
menced b .personal service of process. If he fail to appear,
or make efense, the plaintiff may take judgment at law, or
obtain a decree in equit , in like manner as if the defendant
had failed to appear an defend upon personal service of pro
cess.
§ 4268. Where the defendant does not appear, the court
may, and a justice shall stay ﬁnal judgment or decree, not
exceeding twelve nor less than six months from the time of
the return.
§ 4269. Where the attachment is sued out because the defend
ant is a non-resident, the stay shall be allowed, unless suﬂi
cient cause appear to the contrary.
§ 4270. In all cases of attachment sued out because the
defendant resides out of the State, or has merely removed
himself or property from the State, the judgment or decree
by default may be set aside, upon application of the defendant
and good cause shown, within twelve months thereafter, and
defense permitted upon such terms as the court of justice
may impose.
§ 4171. In all other cases of judgment or decree by default,
the defendant cannot deny or put in issue the ground upon
which the attachment was issued, but may at any time there
atter, and within one year after the suing out of the attach
ment, commence an action on the attachment bond, and may
recover such damages as he has actually sustained for wrong
fully suing out the attachment.
§ 4272. If sued out maliciously, as well as wrongfully, the
jury may, on the trial of such action, give vindictive damages.
§ 4273. Persons laboring under the disabilities of coverture,
infancy, or unsoundness of mind at the rendition of the
judgment or decree by default, have six months after the re
moval of such disability, to appear and show cause against
such judgment or decree.
§ 4274. The death of the defendant proceeded a aiust by
attachment, without personal service, whether the eath oc
cur before or after the commencement of the action, does not
render the proceedings void, but his heirs or representatives,
as the case may be, have the right,'within three years from
the rendition of ﬁnal judgment or decree, to make themselves
parties by petition showing merits veriﬁed by afﬁdavit, and
contest the plaintiff’s demand.
§ 4275, The judgment or decree, if executed before it is set
aside, under any of the foregoing provisions, will be a pro
tection to all persons acting under it, and will confer a good title to all property sold by virtue thereof.
§ 4276. If the property attached has been replevied by the
defendant, the justice or court, upon recovery by the plaintiff,
is authorized to render judgment against the defendant and
his sureties in the replevy bond, for the penalty of such bond,
but to be satisﬁed by the payment of the value of the prop
erty, with interest from the date of the bond, or by the pay
ment of the plaintiff‘s demand as ascertained, with interest
and costs, or by the forthcoming of the property, as the case
may be.
§ 4277. The property attached, if not replevied, with its
proceeds or increase from the date of levy, Wlll be subjected
to the satisfaction of the judgment or decree by sale upon
such terms and conditions as may, in the discretion of the
court, be deemed most for the interest of all parties, by order
of sale, or by other process necessary to eﬁeet the object.
§ 4278. In all attachment cases returnable before a justice of
the peace, when land has been levied upon, either by the at-
tachment or by execution under the Judgment, and it is
necessary to sell the land to satisfy the Judgment, the apers
shall be returned to the- circuit court, and the 1an con
demned, as in other cases of levy upon land by justlce’s ex
cution. . _
§ 4279. \Vhen the property attached is not sufﬁcient to sat-
isfy the recovery, execution may issue for the residue as in
other cases.
§ 4280. Any debt by note, account, or otherwise, created
for the rent of land, is a lien on the crop growing or made
on the premises, in preference to all other debts, from the
date of the contract.
§ 4281. The lien continues for three months after the debt
becomes due, and until the termination of any suit conl-
menced Within that time for such rent.
§ 4282. The lien may be enforced:
1. By original attachment issued on aﬁidavit that the rent
is due and unpaid, or, before due, on aﬁidavit that the defend
ant is about to remove or sell the ore .
2. Or by judgment at law against t e tenant, and execution
to be levied on the crop in whosoever hands it may be.
§ 4283. And the person entitled to the rent may recover
from the purchaser of the crop, or any part of it, the value
0f the property, so that it does not exceed the amount of the
rent and damages.
§ 4284. Any debt by note, account, or otherwise, contraced
for supplies, implements of industry, or work stock, tur
nished by the owners of the land to lessees, or by lessees to
sub-tenants, and used in the cultivation of the crop, shall be
and constitute a lien upon the crop growing or made during
the year upon the premises, in as full and perfect a manner
as provided in sections 4280 to 4283 with regard to rents ;
Provided the said lien is expressly contracted for on the face.
of the note, or writing, between the owner of the land or
lessees, or between the lessees and sub-tenants. The agree
ment or Contract so entered into, shall not have priority ofthe
lieu of the owner of the land for the rent.

§ 4285. The landlord, in addition to liens already given him
by law, shall have a further lien on the rowing crop, for
necessary supplies of food and clothing furnished by the land
lord or his agent, to the tenant, for himself or those depend
ent on him, to enable the tenant to make the crop; Procidrll
an account of such necessary supplies is kept as the articles
are furnished, and is‘sworn to before some justice ot' the peace,
before the enforcement of the lien. This lion shall be second
ary to that of the landlord for his rent, and may be enforced
in the same manner. The aﬂidavits above provided for shall
be made, as to the truth and justice of the account, before
the magistrate, or clerk of the court, shall issue the writ of
attachment.
§ 4286. The mechanic’s lien shall be enforced by attachment
at law or in equity, or by judgment at law and levy of the
execution upon the property subject to the lien.
§ 4288. The court is authorized to adjust, in such suit, 'the
conﬂicting rights of the parties claiming liens among them
selves, and to enforce the same according to priorities.
§ 4289. If separate suits are brought in the same court, they
shall be consolidated; and if in different courts, the suits last
brou ht may, upon application, be removed into the court in
which the ﬁrst suit was instituted, or vice versa, at the option
of the parties.
§ 4290. The lieu of mechanics, foundrymen and machinists,
may be enforced by suit before ajustice of the peace, for all
sums within a justice’s jurisdiction; and when an attachment
has been levied on the land and a judgment rendered, and
execution also levied thereon, the papers shall be returned to
the circuit court, there to be proceeded upon as in other
cases of levy of justice’s execution on land.
§ 4291. No justiee’s execution in any such case shall be a
lien on the land, unless, within twenty days after the rendi
tion of the judgment, an abstract thereof, showing the name
of the plaintiff and defendant, the date and amount of the
recovery, be registered in the oﬁice of the register of the
county in which the judgment is rendered.
§ 4292. The re ister shall index such abstract, as he is re
quired to index eeds, and for the registration he shall re
ceive the sum of twenty-ﬁve cents.
§ 4293. The liens provided for by section 2751 on steam and
keelboats, may be enforced as follows:
Any person to whom such debt is due, may make applica
tion to any justice of the peace, or judge of the circuit or
chancery court, in the county in which the boat then is, for
a warrant to' enforce and colleet'the same.
§ 4294.. The application shall be made by petition, in writ
ing, stating:
1. By whom and for what boat the debt was contracted.
2. The items composing the debt.
3. That it is justly due and unpaid.
4. And that demand has been made of some one of the de
fendants, or of the captain or agent of the defendants, being
at the time in the county.
§ 4295. .And the petitioner, or person applying in his behalf
shall verif his petition upon oath.
~4296. efore issuin the warrant against the boat, the
judge or justice shall ta e bond, with security, from the plain
tiﬁ, in the penalty of two hundred and ﬁfty dollars, payable
to the defendant, conditioned to prosecute the suit with eﬁeet.
or to pay all costs and damages to the defendant; and all
claimants subsequently applying to be made parties to the
suit, shall ﬁrst be required to sign said bond before being ad
mitted as plaintiffs.
§ 4297. The justice or judge shall thereupon issue the war-
rant, in the name of the petitioners, against the owners of
the boat, or some of them, and direct it to the sheriff of the
county, commanding him to attach the boat, her furniture
and tackle, or so much thereof as may be necessary, and
safely keep the same until security is given, or further order
from the court. ,
§ 4298. The sheriff, after seizing the property, shall retain
possession of it until the termination of the suit, unless bond
and security is given in a penalty of double the amount of
the debt claimed, payable to the plaintiff, conditioned to
abide by and perform the judgment of the court, if it is
rendered in favor of the plaintiﬁ.
§ 4299. If the amount of the debt exceed ﬁfty dollars, the R
sheriﬂ' shall return the warrant and the bond,if one be given, t
into the circuit court of the county for trial before a jury;
if not, it shall be returned and tried before any magistrate of
the county, subject to appeal from his judgment to the cir
cuit court.
§ 4300. Any two or more of such creditors mayjoin in the
same warrant as plaintiffs; and any such creditor who has
not joined in the warrant may be made a party plaintiff in
the suit, on motion,before the trial ; and in such case he shall
be liable in all things, just as he would have been had he
originally joined in the suit.
§ 4301. After a warrant andkseizure of a boat at the suit of
one or more such creditors, no other such creditor shall
have or obtain such warrant to attach or seize the boat, but
all of them may have themselves made parties, as prescribed
in the preceding section.
§ 302. W'here the warrant is returned before a magistrate,
if the defendants do not ap ear at the time of trial; or,
when it is returned into the circuit court, if they do not ap-
pear at the return term and plead, judgment by default shall
be entered for the amount of the claims ﬁled by all who have
made themselves parties to the suit; and, upon motion the
court or magistrate shall enter judgment against the sureties
in the defendant’s bond for the amount of the judgment and
costs.
§ 4303. But if no bond has been given, the court shall then
order the boat, or such part of the furniture and tackle as
may be suﬂicient, to be sold for the satisfaction of the judg-
ment; and the sheriff shall accordingly sell the same, ﬁrst
advertising the time and place of sale at least ten days.
§ 4304. Where there are prior liens on said boat by judg
ments obtained by the eneral creditors of the owners, the
sheriff shall attach the €oat, subject to such prior liens; and
when the boat is sold to satisfy such rior liens, the surplus,
if an , shall be paid into court, W ere the attachment is
pending, to be paid to the attaching creditors, if they obtain
judgment.
§ 4305. If the proceeds of the boat, tackle and furniture, _
are not suﬂicient to pay off all the creditors who have joined
in the suit, said proceeds shall be divided amongst them
ratably.
§ 4306. The vendor of land, as each payment of the pur
chase-money becomes due, may bring his suit to enforce his
lien as vendor, and may have so much of the land sold, as
may be necessary to pay the money then due.
§ 4307. The suit shall be retained in court, and as each of
the payments becomes due, the court shall direct a sufﬁcient
quantity of the land to be sold to satisfy the same.
§ 4308. If the land cannot be divided without great injury
to the parties, or if the vendee so direct, the court shall order
it all to be sold at one time, making the ayments to fall due
at such times as the purchaser has agreed] to pay the vendor;
and the money, as collected, shall be applied to the payment
of the installments due the vendor. _
§ 4309. Whether the land is all sold, or is sold in parcels,
the defendant shall have the right of redemption, as in other
cases.
§ 4310. The circuitjudges of this State have power to issue
writs of mandamus, upon petition, supported by aﬁidavit
made before anyjudge,justice of the peace, or clerk of any
circuit court.
§ 4311. The writ is returnable to the circuit court of the
county in which the land lies, in all cases where land is the
subject of controversy; and in all other cases to the circuit
court of the county where the defendant resides, or if a ainst
a public ofﬁcer or corporation, in the county in which t e of
ﬁce is kept or corporation does business.
May be brought in the chancery court. 10 Lea, 535.
§ 4312. The writ is either alternative or peremptory. The
alternative writ commands the defendant to do the act re
quired to be performed, or show cause before the court forth
with, or at a speciﬁed time and place, why he has not done
so, and that hethen and there return the writ.
The, peremptory writ commands the defendant to do the
act, and return the writ accordingly.
§ 4313 On the return day of the alternative writ, or on such
further day as the court may allow, the party on whom the
writ has been served, may show cause by a sworn answer,
and issue may be made thereon, and tried accordingly.
§ 4314. The defendant in the writ shall notify any third per
son claimin title to or interest in the matter in controversy,
and such t ird person may, upon application, be made a
defendant, and permitted to ﬁle an answer, upon giving
security for costs.
§ 4315. If the answer deny any material facts stated in the
petition, the court may determine the issues upon evidence,
or cause them to be submitted to a jury.
§ 4316. If such third person is a non-resident or unknown,
publication shall be made as in other cases against non-resi
dents; and, on his failing to appear and answer according to
the requirements of the order of publication, the petition
may be taken for confessed, and roceeded with ex parte.
§ 4317. When the defendant ma es default, or a decision is
made against him after appearance, the court will direct a
eremptory mandamus to issue forthwith; should the decis
ion be adverse to the petitioner, the petition will be dismissed
with costs.
§ 4318. The costs and fees in mandamus cases are the same
as those prescribed by law for similar services in chancery
proceedings.
§ 4319. The several justices of the peace in this State have
power to issue scire facias in all cases before. them, when it
may be necessary, in the same manner and subject to the
the same rules as such writs issue from courts of record.
§ 4320. Scirefacias is issued by the justice having legal pos
session of the papers in a cause.
§ 4321. A scz'refacias shall not issue on the application of
any person other than the party of record, or his attorney,
except an administrator de bonis non, in the case of a judg
ment recovered by a previous executor or administrator, un
less such application be in writing and signed by the appli
cant, to be ﬁled and preserved with the other papers.
§ 4322. When scircfacias issues upon the application of any
person other than the party of record or his attorney, the
clerk or justice shall endorse on the back of the scire facias
the name of the applicant, who becomes, thereby, liable for
costs.
§ 4323. The clerk or justice who fails to make such endorse
ment, is himself liable for costs, in the event judgment is
against the party suing out the scirefacias.
§ 4324. If such clerk orjustice falsely and fraudulently en
dorse the name of any person on a writ ot'scirefacias by him
issued, under the fore oing provisions, he is guilty of a mis
demeanor in ofﬁce, and may be punished accordingly, and is
also liable to an action for damages at the suit of such per
son. .
§ 4325. The writ of scire facias is served by reading, or offer
in to read, the contents of such writ to the person on whom
it IS to be executed.
§ 4326. A motion may be made by the party aggrieved, or
his legal representatives, against the person in default. and
such Other persons made liable with him as may be in exist
ence at the time of the motion.
§ 4327. And whenever by this chapter a motion is given
against an ofﬁcer, or other person acting under the orders of at
court, it carries with it the right to move against him and
the' sureties on his oﬂicial bond, or other bond executed in
the discharge of the particular duty, although such bond
may not be 1n strict compliance with the law.
§ 4328. In any case where a judgment has been obtained
against any collector of the revenue, or other ofﬁcer, either
alone or with a part of his sureties, a similar motion may be
made against the sureties against whom no judgment has
been obtained, whether the suretyship appears in the same or
another bond. The person so moved against shall have ﬁve
days’ notice of the motion; and this section shall apply only
to cumulative bonds, or where two or more bonds ave been
given to secure the same object; and only to bonds executed
before March 23, 1875.
§ 4329. No notice of the motion is required, if made at the
return term of the process in a court of record, where the
cause of motion is oﬂicial delinquency, or within six months
after the right to the motion has accrued in any other case.
§ 4330. The provisions of the foregoing section do not
apply to constables, who shall be entitled to notice in all
cases of motion against them for oﬂicial delinquency.
§ 4331. Five days’s notice of the time and place of motion,
if in the judicial circuit of the defendant’s res1dence, and ten
days if in another circuit, is sufﬁcient notice in all cases.
§ 4332. The plaintiff in any motion may be required to
give security for the cost of suits as in other cases.
§ 4333. The motion shall be made, unless in cases where
- otherwise provuled by this Code, as follows :
1. Where the motion is against an oﬂicer for oﬂicial de
fault, it may be made in the court in which the oﬂicer was
acting ofﬁclally at the time, or in the court to which the pro
cess was returnable, when the default consists in the failure
to execute or return process, or to pay over money collected
thereon.
2. Where the motion is by a surety, it may be made in the
court m which judgment has been rendered against him, or
in the county in which any one of defendants reside.
3. In all other cases the motion should be made in the
county in which the defendants, or some one of them, reside,
and if none of them have any permanent residence in the
State, then in any county.
§ 4334. The word court, in the foregoing section, embraces
justice of the peace, and a motion lies in all cases before the
justice having jurisdiction of the case on which the motion
in based.
§ 4335. But the circuit court shall have concurrent jurisdic
tion of all motions cognizable before a justice.
§ 4336. Whenever damages on a motion are given, in the
absence of any speciﬁc amount mentioned, the plaintiff will be
entitled to recover twelve and one-half per cent. on the whole
amount, principal and interest, due at the time of the rendi
tion of thejudgment.
§ 4337. The remedy by motion is cumulative, and does not
deprive the plaintiff of any other remedy allowed by law for
his redress. 
§ 4338. Judgment 'by motion may be had against any
sheriﬁ, coroner 0r constable, or other executive ofﬁcer, to
whom an execution is directed and by him received, for the
amount due upon such execution, and twelve and one-half
per cent. damages in the following cases:
1. \Vhen he fails to make due and proper return of such
execution.
2. When he makes a false or insuﬂicient return.
3. \Vhen he fails to pay over money collected on such ex
ecution.
§ 4339. Such officers are in like manner liable to the defend-
ant in an execution upon motion—
1. For the failure to pay over, on demand, any excess of
money which may remain upon a sale by execution, after the
satislaction thereof, and all commissions and costs; the
amount of such excess, with interest and damages. (a)
2. For failing to pay over, on demand, money paid or col-
lected on an execution, the whole or any part of" which is en
joined in chaucer , or to which the defendant is otherwise
legally entitled; t e amount so enjoined, or to which the de
fendant is entitled, with interest and damages.
§ 4340. Such ofﬁcers are also liable to judgment by motion
in favor of clerks, other executive ofﬁcers, and Witnesses, for
the amounts, with interest, respectively due them in the bill
of costs endorsed on an execution, in the same casesin which
the plaintiff or the defendant in the execution might recover
judgment by motion for the principal, or any part thereof.
§ 4341. In case of the death of an ofﬁcer or either of his
sureties, pending a motion against them, it may be revived
against the personal representative of the deceased in the
same manner as other suits are revived.
§ 4342. On the trial of the motion, a copy of the execution
made and certiﬁed by the clerk, with the return thereon, if
any was made, 'or a statement that no return was made, if
such be the fact, together with his certiﬁcate that the execu
tion was received by the sheriﬁ, or sent to him by mail, is evi
dence of the facts so certiﬁed, Without producingatranscript
of the entire record, or compelling the clerk himself to at
tend.
§ 4343. So, also, the certiﬁcate as aforesaid that the execu
tion was sent to the ofﬁcer by mail, will be prima facic evi
dence that the writ was received by the ofﬁcer, unless he
states, under oath in writin , that he never received the writ.
In such case, the ofﬁcer sha l have notice of the motion.
§ 4344. Sheriffs, coroners, and constables, are liable to
judgment by motion before a justice of the peace, in favor
of the party interested, for any money collected or received
by them upon any debt or demand cognizable before a justice
of the peace, and put into their hands for collection, whether
such money was received before or after the issuance of a
warrant for such debt or demand, and with or without judg
ment or execution. Thejudgment will be for the amount so
received, with interest and damages.
§ 4345. It shall be a good defense to a motion against an
. . . . ~ -
ofﬁcer residing in any county other than that from wlnch an
execution issued, for the oﬂieer to show by proof that he, in
due time, placed the process in the regular mail, at the court
house of the county to which the execution was directed,
with the proper return thereon, scaled up in the presence of
the postmaster, directed to the clerk of the court from which
the same issued.
§ 4346. The inability to make the prescribed return of a
justice’s execution, on account of sickness, high water, or
engagement in executing any precept in behalf of the State,
W1 1 be a suﬂicient reason to authorize a justice of the peace,
before whom the motion has 'been made, to discharge the
ofﬁcer for his failure to make return as required.
§ 4347. Any sheriﬁ or other oﬁicer failing to execute and
make return of any process issued from any court of record,
and delivered to him twenty days before the return day, is
liable to a penalty of one hundred and twenty-ﬁve dollars, to
be recovered by the party aggrieved on motion before the
court to which the process is returnable.
§ 4348. If the process has been issued to an ofﬁcer of another
county, the ofﬁcer shall have until the next term to
show cause against such judgment, on scire facias made
known to him.
§ 4349. Judgments may, in like manner, be recovered summarin
on motion in favor of sheriﬁ's, coroners, constables,
and other executive ofﬁcers:
1. Against the obligors on bonds given to indemnify the
ofﬁcer for levying an execution 0r attachment, or for making
sale of property so levied on or attached, after judgment
against such ofﬁcer for making such levy or sale, the judg
ment to be for the amount recovered against such ofﬁcer with
interest. 
2. Against the deputy of the sheriff and his sureties for
the amount of any 'udgment which may be rendered against
the sheriff for the efault of such deputy. '(b)
3. Against clerks for the amount of costs due such ofﬁcers
paid to such clerks
§ 4350. The motion on an indemnity bond ma be made in
any court, or before any justice of the peace, aving juris
diction of the amount, in the county in which the bond is
iven, or in which the court is held from which the process
issued for the levy whereof the bond was given, or in the
county of the residence of any of the obligors. '
§ 4351. The motion against the deputy sheriff may be made
in any court, or before any justice of the peace, havm
jurisdiction of the amount, in the county in_which the bon
was executed or in whichjudgment has been recovered against
the principal for the default of the deputy, or in any county
in which the deputy, or any one of his sureties may reside.
§ 4352. Judgment may be had summarily by motion agains
the clerk of any court in this State, in the following cases:
1. For failin r to pay over to the party entitled, on demand, .
money receive by him on any judgment or execution, or
paid into court upon a plea of tender or any other plea, or
under an order or rule of court, judgment for the sum so
received, with interest, and twelve and one-half per cent.
damages. ‘ .
2. For delinquencies in regard to revenue, as prowded in
this Code in Part 1., Titles 4 and 5.
§ 353. The word “ clerk ” in this article, includes justices
of the peace, who are, so far as the provisions of this article
are concerned, clerks of their own courts.
§ 4354. A special commissioner appomtcd by the court to
sell property, or to receive and collect funds, is, in all cases,
liable on motion, in the same way and to the same extent as
the clerks of the courts.
§ 4355. The like remedy lies against a do at clerk in favor
of the party a grieved, as against the cler himself.
§ 4356. So, a so, the clerk is entitled to recover by motion
against his deputy and sureties, in the same way the sheriffs
are entitled to recover against their deputies.
§ 4357. County trustees are required to pay all just claims
against the county as they are presented, if they have money
in their hands not otherwrse special] y appropriated, and
on failure so to do, the party aggrieved may recover judg
ment by motion against such trustee and his sureties, for the
amount due, with interest and damages, in the county court
of the county in which such trustee resides.
§ 4358. A motion lies in favor of the ‘arty aggrieved, State,
county, corporation, or individual, against any tax collector,
tax assessor, revenue collector or commisioner, for moneys in
thelr hands ofﬁcially, and not paid over, or accounted for ac
cording to law. '
§ 4359. The recovery on such motion shall be the amount
not paid over, with interest, and twelve and one~half per
cent. damages on the gross amount, and all costs.
§ 4360. Judgment may, in like manner, be had in favor of
the party aggrieved against any attorney in this State, u on
ﬁve days’ notice, for any money collected or received by 1im
in that capacity, and not paid over on demand by the person
entitled, his agent or attorney.
§ 4361. Judgment will, in such case, be given for the amount
so collected or received, with interest, and twelve and one
half per cent. damages, and all costs.
§ 4362. Motions against attorneys may be made in the circuit
court of any county in which such attorney resides, or in
which the money was collected; and if he neither resides
nor practices in the State, then in the circuit court of any
county, and, in the latter case, without notice.
§ 4363. Upon the return by the proper oﬂicer of an execu
tion issued on the judgment recovered under this article, with
the endorsement that the money cannot be made, or not suf
ﬁcient property of the defendant to be found to make the
same, it is the duty of the court to strike such delinquent
from the roll of attorneys, who shall 'thenceforward be dis
qualiﬁed to practice in the courts of this State until the debt
is paid. 
§ 4364: sureties are entitled to judgment by motion against
their princlpals—
1. \Vhenever judgment has been rendered against them as
such sureties.
2. \Vhenever such judgment, or any part thereof, has been
paid by the surety.
§ 4365. And such motion may be joint or several, at the
option of the sureties.
§ 4366. The judgment will be for the amount of the re
covery, or payment, as the case may be, with interests and
costs,
§ 4367. If the fact of suretyship does not a ear upon the
face of the proceedings on which judgment
or payment made, or of the instrument on which the motion
under this article is founded, a jury shall be immediately em
paneled to try the fact.
§ 4368. No surety will be permitted to confess judgment,
or allow judgment to go by default, if the principal will
make himself a defendant to the suit, and tender to the
surety for his indemnity sufﬁcient collateral security, to be
approved by the court or justice before whom the suit is
pending.
§ 4369. A eo-surety against whom judgment has been
rendered for the whole ebt, or who has paid the same or
more than his ratable share of said judgment, may have judg
ment on motion a ainst all of the other parties to the instru
ment, whether inc uded in the original instrument or not, for
the ratable share of each. 
§ 4370. The remedies given by this article lie both for and
against the personal representatives of deceased parties.
§ 4371. Where a judgment by motion is rendered against
an executor or administrator without notice, founded on a
demand against the deceased, on scire facias to make the de
fendant liable out of his own estate, he shall be permitted to
make any defense he might have made to the original mo
tion. 4
as been had'S
§ 4372. In all cases of motions by sureties against co~
sureties, if the fact of the joint suretyship does not appear
on the face of the papers, or judicial proceedings on which
the motion is based, the fact will be ascertained by a jury to
be immediately empaneled.
§ 4373. Sta ors may move against their principals and c0
stayors in t
he same way, and subject to the same rules and
regulations, as sureties.
§ 4374. Accommodation endorsers may move against their
principals in the same way as, and subject to all the rules and
regulations that govern motions by, sureties against their
principals.
§ 4375. On the trial of any of the motions provided for in
this article, the plaintiﬁ shall produce the instrument cre
atin the suretyshi , or a certiﬁed copy thereof, and a copy
of the record showmg the recovery of judgment.
§ 4376. Motions under this article may be made in any
court, or before any justice of the peace having cognizance
of the amount.
§ 4377. They may also, in all cases, be made in the court or
before the justice by Whom the judgment was rendered
against such surety, stayor or accommodation endorser.
§ 4378. The special criminal courts shall have the power to
render judgments by motion in favor of sureties, as against
principals, or in favor of co-sureties, as against each other,
upon any jud ment rendered in said courts, upon the same
terms and con itions as re ards notice the party sought to be
made liable, that the circult courts have.
§ 4379. The recovery under this article shall include interest
and costs of the original jud ment, and commissions for col
lecting the same, if collecte , and the costs of the motion,
unless otherwise directed.
§ 4380. The provisions of this article extend to all cases
where the suretyship is upon any acknowledgment or confes
sion of judgment in any court.
§ 4381, The circuit and county courts of this State have
concurrent jurisdiction to change names, to legitimate, and
authorize the adoption of children, on the application ofa resi
dent citizen of the county in which the application is made.
§ 4382. The application to change the name shall be by pe
tition in writing, signed by the applicant and veriﬁed by
afﬁdavit, stating that he is a resident of the county, and give
ing his reasons for desiring the change.
§ 4383. If the court is satiﬁed with the reasons given, it
it may order the name to be changed by entry of record re
citing the petition, and the reasons therein given.
§ 4384. Any person whose name is thus changed, may
thereafter be known and designated, sue and be sued, by the
new name.
§ 4385. The application to legitimate a child not born in
lawful wedlock is made by petition in writing, signed by the
person wishing to legitimate such child, and setting forth the
reasons therefor. 4386.
The court, if satisﬁed with the reasons, may, by or
der embodying the petition in full, and entered upon the
minutes of the court, declare such child legitimate.
§ 4387. The effect of the legitimation is to create the rela
tion of parent and child between the petitioner and person
legitimated, as if the latter had been born to the former in
lawful wedlock.
§ 4388. Any person wishing to adopt another as his child,
shall apply by petition, signed by the applicant, and setting
forth the reasons therefor, and the terms of the aforesaid
adoption.
§ 4389. The court, if satisﬁed with the reasons given, may
sanction the adoption by decree, entered upon the minutes,
embodying the petition, and directing the terms of adoption.
§ 4390. he effect of such adoption, unless especially _re
strained by the decree, is to confer upon the person adopted
all the privileges of a legitimate child to the applicant, with
capacity to inherit and succeed to the real and personal estate
of such applicant as heir and next of kin; but it gives to the
person seeking the adoption no mutual rights of inheritance
and succession, nor any interest whatever in the estate of the
person adopted.
§ 4391. In cases of legitimation'and adoption, the name of
the person sought to be legitimated or adopted, may be
changed by proper prayer for that purpose inserted in the
petition. '
§ 4392. The clerk’s fee for services in applications for chang
ing names, adoption or legitimation of children, shall be one
do lar, to be paid by the party petitioning.
§ 4393. The chancery, circuit, and county courts have con
currentjurisdiction to accept the resignation of trustees, or
to remove and appoint trustees under the provisions of this chapter.
§ 4394. The proceedings, in either case, shall be had in the
county or district in which the trustee or beneﬁciary, or some
one of them resides, or in which some portion of the trust
property is found, and in the court having charge of the
fund, or before whom the trustee has qualiﬁed or given bond.
§ 4395. Any trustee may resign his trusteeship by mere
motion, in open court, by and With the assent of the beneﬁ
ciaries under the trust, the motion and assent being entered
on the minutes of the court.
§ 4396. Such trustee may also resign his trust by petition in
writing, presented to the court, stating the facts of the trus
teeship, condition and character of the property, and the
state of his accounts, and offering to pass his accounts and
deliver up the property.
§ 4397. The court shall, in such cases, require ten days’ no
tice to be given to the beneﬁciaries, and appoint guardians ad
litem, for infants, and may appoint counsel for such infants.
§ 4398. The court shall also have the accounts of the trus
tee examined and passed upon, according to the nature of the
case, and may order an execution to issue against the trustee
and his sureties, upon ﬁve days’ notice to the sureties, unless
the balance of money in the hands of the trustee is paid, and
the trust property delivered over under the decree made.
§ 4399. If satisﬁed that it is right and proper to permit the
resignation, under the provisions of the last two sections, the
court may order accordingly.
§ 4400. A trustee may be remOved upon mere motion, where
he is present in person or by counsel, and offers no sufﬁcient
objection.
§ 4401. He may also be removed upon application by peti
tion, by any one or more of the beneﬁciaries—
1. When he fails or refuses to act as trustee.
2. When he has violated, or threatened to violate his trust.
3. “Then he has removed from the State.
4. When he is insolvent, and there is reason to fear loss on
that account.
5. For other good cause. -
§ 4402 The petition should state the grounds on which th
removal is sought and a copy thereof shall be served upon
the trustee, if within the State, ﬁve days before the matter is
heard.
§ 4403. If the trustee is non-resident, or absent from the
State, so that notice cannot be personally served, publication
shall be made in such paper as the court or clerk may direct,
for four weeks, as in attachment cases against non-residents.
§ 4404. The defendant may be permitted to answer, if he
sees proper; and evidence may be heard orally, or by depo
sition.
§ 4405. The court may, on the trial, instead of removing
the trustee, require of him such bond as will effectually pro
tect the interest of the parties, which bond shall be approved
by the court. I
§ 4406. In all cases of the resignation or removal of trus
tees, or where they fail or refuse to act, the court may ap
oint a successor, taking, whenever it is proper to require
1t, bond and security, as in the last section.
Duty of court to require bond. 6 Cold., 434. .
§ 4407. The court shall divest and vest title to the property,
enforce the delivery thereof to the new trustee, and the pay
ment of money found due upon statement of accounts, ac
cording to the course of the chancery court.
§ 4408. Upon the death of a trustee, a new trustee may al
ways be appointed, on application by the beneﬁciaries by pe
tition, ma ing all necessary parties defendants.
§ 4409. Where any trustee, appointed by will or deed, who
is a non~resident of the State, is a lunatic or non compos
mentis, and unable to execute the trust, a petition or bill in
equity may be ﬁled in any county, circuit, or chancer court
of this State by the beneﬁciary entitled under said eed or
will, and the lunatic or non compos mantis by his next friend,
which petition shall be sworn to by the next friend, and the
court on being satisﬁed by proof that the trustee is non com
pos mantis, may appoint another trustee to execute the trust,
' and should there be more than one trustee, the court may, in
its discretion, authorize the other trustee to execute the
trust.
§ 4410. Where real estate is conveyed and the bill or peti_
tion is ﬁled in any other county or district than where the
property is situated, a copy of t e decree or a memorandum
thereof shall be registered in the county where the land lies.
§ 4411. Trustees receive the same fees for selling and col
lecting as are allowed to clerks and masters in chancery, but
the county court, upon application, or the chancery court, if
the trust is administered there, may allow him compensation
exceeding that of clerks and masters, if, in the opinion of
such court, the character of the services entitle him to the
same, but in no case to exceed ﬁve per cent.
§ 4412. The courts of law and equity in this State are
hereby authorized to have the mone and funds in the hands
of clerks and receivers, or trustees. 1n litigation or under the
control of said courts, invested in the public stocks or bonds
of the United States, under such rules and orders in each
case as may be legal and just.
§ 4413. Guardians, executors, administrators and trustees,
. .
shall also be authorized and empowered to invest money and
funds in their hands in the public stocks or bonds of the
United States, and make report thereof to the county court
of the county where such guardian, executor, administrator,
or trustee resides, unless another mode of investment is re
quired by will or deed of the testator or other person who
has established the funds.
§ 4414. A surety for the prosecution or defense of any suit in
law or equity in this State, may be released from such surety
ship by giving ﬁve days’ notice to his principal, if in the State,
and to is attorney, if out of the State, of his intention to
move for a rule upon him to give counter security to indem
nify him avainst his liability as surety.
§ 4415. Up on notice thus given, the court or justice shall
make a ru e requiring the principal, within a given time, to
give such counter security; and on failure of the princl al to
comply with the rule, the court will dismiss the suit, an give
judgment against the principal and his surety for the costs al
rea y accrued.
§ 4416. The plaintiff may, however, prosecute his suit in
the manner prescribed for poor persons, in which case the
surety will be bound only for the costs accruing up to the
giving of notice.
§ 4417. The surety upon any bond for the replevy of prop
erty, given in any cause pending in the judicial tribunals of
the State, may, by notice in writing, require his principal to
give him suﬂicient counter security to indemnify him against
iability on such bond.
§ 4418. If the principal fail to give such counter security
within ﬁve days after the service of notice, the justice or
clerk of the court, as the case may be, is authorized, upon
afﬁdavit, of the facts, to issue a writ to the sheriff, command
ing him to seize and hold such property, according to the
terms of the original seizure or attachment, subject to the
defendant’s right to again rcplevy; and in case he fails so to
do, then subject to such disposition as the law makes of
property so seized.
§ 4419. The new replevy bond, if given, will be made pay
able to the original surety,-and such surety is authorized to
act in reference to the property as if he had been the plaintiff
in the action. ‘
§ 4420. The new bond ,will be ﬁled with the original re
plevy bond, and may be enforced by judgment or decree,
upon a breach of the original replevy bond, in favor of either
the plaintiff or of the original surety.
§ 4421. The surety of any guardian, executor, or adminis
trator, trustee, or assignee for creditors, who conceives him
self iu danger of suffering by his suretyship, and desires to
be relieved therefrom, may ﬁle his petition in writing in the
pougty court, or the court having cognizance of the estate or
un .
§ 4422, Upon such petition and notice, the court may com
pel the principal to give other sufﬁcient security, or counter
security, to be approved by the court, or to deliver up the
estate to the petitioner, or such other person as may be di
rected, and may make such other orders and decrees tor the
relief of the petitioner and better security of the estate as
may be just and equitable.
§ 4423. And should no person be found willing to accept
the ofﬁce, and give the surety required, the applicant surety
shall qualify in the place of his principal, otherwise the lia
bility will continue until a successor is appointed and quali
tied.
§ 4424. Upon public or private application of any surety,
if the principal consents to give a new bond, with satisfactory
security, it may be taken without further proceedings, with
the same effect as if executed upon order.
§ 4425. On the execution of the additional bond as required,
or the qualiﬁcation of a successor, the applicant surety is ex
onerated from all liability accruing subsequently.
§ 4426. The exoneration of the applicant surety does not
affect the previous liability of any of the obligors, in the
original bond; nor are any of the obligors who have not
joined in such application, discharged from any liability ac
cruing after the ﬁling of such additional bond ; and the
obligors, who are not exonerated, are liable to any person in
jured by a breach of such bonds, in the same or separate
actions. 
§ 427. The sureties in either bond, who have been com
pelled to make payments thereon for the principal, have the
same remedies against the sureties in all the bonds in force at
the time of default, as co-sureties in the same bond have
against each other, the recovery being properly proportioned
according to the penalties of the bonds.
§ 4428. The oﬁicer authorized to hear and dispose of such
applications may administer oaths and summon witnesses in
the same way and under the same penalties as the courts of
the State.
§ 4429. The costs of the application, if unsuccessful, will
be paid by the applicant; if successful, by the principal, and
judment may be given and execution issued therefor.
§ 4430. Jurisdiction over the persons and estates of idiots,
lunatics and other persons of unsound mind is intrusted to
the count and chancery courts.
§ 4431. pon information made to the county court that
any idiot or lunatic resides within the jurisdiction thereof,
the court shall order the sheriff to summon a jury of twelve
freeholders to ascertain, by inquisition, the idiocy or lunacy,
and the property and estate of the idiot or lunatic, and make
return thereof to the court at that or the next succeeding
term.
§ 4432. The following may be the form of the 'writ:
STATE or TENNESSEE,
County.
To the Sheriff of County, Greeting:
You are hereby commanded to inquire, by the oath of
twelve freeholders, summoned by yourself, whether , of
-—-, in the county of , is an idiot or lunatic, or is other
wise of unsound mind, so that he has not capacity suﬂicient
for the overnment of himself and his property; and if so,
from Wiat time, after what manner, and how; and if the
said ,being in the same condition, hath alienated any
lands or tenements or not; and if so, what lands and what
tenements, to what person or persons, Where, when, after
what manner, and how; and what lands and tenements,
goods and chattels yet remain to him; how much they are
worth by the year; whether he has a wife and children, and
their names and ages. And you are further commanded that
at certain days and places, appointed by yourself, you dili
gently make inquisition in the premises; and the same, dis
tinctly and plainly made, return into the county court of said
county at its next session, together with this writ.
\Vitness, —, clerk of said court, at oﬂice in —, the
— day of ' , 18—.
§ 4433. The writ of inquisition may be returnable to the
same term of the court from which it issues, if the court so
directs; and in such case, the same proceedings shall be had
as if the return were made to the next succeeding term.
§ 4434. The clerk of the county court, or any justice of the
peace, may, on the application of either party, issue subpoena
for witnesses to attend the in uisition, and such witnesses
are subject to the penalties an entitled to the privileges of
other witnesses.
§ 4435. The erson on whose application the inquisition is
sued, is liablc or costs in case the defendant is not declared a
lunatic; and, if so declared, the costs shall be paid out of the
lunatic’s estate.
§ 4436. Upon the return of the jury that the person is an
idiot or lunatic, and that he has property, the court shall ap
point a guardian for the person and property of such idiot
3r lunatic, Who shall give bond and account as other guar
lans.
§ 4437, If the idiot or lunatic has no property, or 'not sufﬁ
cient for his maintenance, he may be let out for the term of
one year to the lowest bidder, as other poor persons, or other
wise provided for as the court may direct.
§ 4438, If let out to the lowest bidder, bond and suﬁicient
security, to be approved by the court, shall be taken for the
safe keepin , providing with suﬁicient diet, washing, and
apparel, an proper treatment for the term of letting. '
§ 4439. Any justice of the peace, in the recess of court, if
satisﬁed from the ﬁnding of a jur , or otherwise, that there
is apparent danger of violence being oﬂ'ered by such idiot or
lunatlc to the person or property of others, may commit him
to jail until the next term of the court.
§ 4440. The application to the chancery court shall be by
petition, veriﬁed by aﬁidavit, setting forth the facts in regard
to the person and propert of the supposed idiot or lunatic.
§ 4441. N 0 application s all be made to the chancery court,
unless the estate exceeds ﬁve hundred dollars, and the fact
shall be so stated in the petition. '
§ 4442. Upon this petition, the chancellor shall direct the
clerk to issue a writ of inquisition, on the petitioner giving
bond with good security in a sum to be ﬁxed by the chancellor,
conditioned to pay costs, and all such damages as the de
fendant may sustain in consequence of the petition having
been wantonly and maliciously ﬁled and prosecuted.
§ 4443. The writ directs the sheriﬁ to summon a jury of
twelve freeholders, to meet at a day and place to be desig-
nated by him, to inquire and ascertain by their verdict,
whether the defendant be an idiot, a lunatic, or person of un
sound mind.
§ 4444. The clerk and master shall cause the defendant to
be served with a copy of the petition, and notice of the time
and place of holding the inquest, at least ﬁve days previous
thereto.
§ 4445. The clerk and master, or a deputy by him appoint-
. . . .
ed, shall be present and preside over the deliberations of sand
jury, and receive their verdict.
§ 4446. Both parties shall have process of subpaana, and attachmcnt
it necessary, to be issued. by the clerk, to compel
the attendance of witnesses; and the jury shall bear the testi-
mony offered. and inspect and examine the defendant himself
in making a verdict.
_ 4447. The testimony ofthe witnesses, and examination of
the defendant, if made, shall be taken down by the clerk in
writing, and returned, with the verdict, to the chancellor in
court.
§ 4448. If the jury ﬁnd the defendant to be an idiot, lunatic,
or person of unsound mind, they shall ascertain by their ver-
diet the value of his estate, and of what it consists, and who
would be his heirs and next kin, were he to die intestate.
§ 4449. Upon such ﬁnding by the jury, the clerk will ap-
point a guardian to take care of the defendant, and manage
his estate until the next term of the chancery court, at which
time the court will appoint a regular- guardian as hereinbe
fore provided.
§ 4450, If the jury cannot agree, the clerk may issue a new
writ to the sheriff, who shall summons twelve other free
holders before whom the matter shall be again tried.
§ 4451. In case the second jury do not agree, the evidence
on both trials will be returned to court, and submitted to the
chancellor.
§ 4452. Either party may appear at the ﬁrst term of the
court, after the return of the inquisition, and move the court
to set it aside.
§ 4453. Upon this motion, the court shall hear the evidence,
and the examination of the defendant, as taken down and
returned by the clerk and master, and also such other afﬁ
davits as may be competent and proper; and the chancellor
may, upon such motion, grant or refuse a. new trial.
§ 4454. Upon setting aside the verdict of the jury, the
chancellor may, at his discretion, order another inquest to be
held, or decree upon the facts.
§ 4455. In like manner, when a jury fails to agree, the chan
cellor may order a new inquisition, or decide the case for him
self upon the testimony rcturned, and such other testimony
as may be offered.
§ 4456. The court may make such order for the purpose of
having the defendant present for inspection and examination
by him, as he may think proper.
§ 457. The guardian appointed under this chapter is au
thorized, upon the coming of age or marriage of any child
of the lunatic, in case of long standing or conﬁrmed mental
unsoundness, to make such settlement or provision for such
child as the situation of the estate, the age and condition of
the lunatic and his wife, if any, and the number of his chil
dren, and other circumstances, may render reasonable and
just; and the guardian and his sureties are liable on his bond
for any intentional fraudulent abuses by them committed.
_ 4458. To avoid which risk, the guardian himself, or the
child coming of age or marrying, may ﬁle a. bill in the chan
cery court of the county in which eit er the guardian or the
lunatic resides, making all necessary parties, and proceed as
in other chancery cases.
§ 4459. The court may, in such cases, decree the partition
and division of a reasonable portion of the real and personal
estate of the person laboring under conﬁrmed mental un
soundness among his children or descendants, as in case of
death and intestacy, charging such portion as an advance
ment.
§ 4460. The court shall, before making such a decree, be
fully satisﬁed— .
1. That there is in existence no last will or testament that
miggt be valid after the death of such person of unsound
min .
2. That it is manifestly for the interest of such person of
unsound mind, and his family, that the partition and division
should be made.
§ 4461. And the court shall see—
1. That ample means are retained undivided for the sup
port, maintenance, care, and comfort of such person. -
2. If he is married, that the like ample means are retained
for the support, maintenance, care and comfort of his wife,
and to provide her year’s support, dower and distributive
share in case she survives him.
§ 4462. Upon rendering a decree for partition and distribu
tion as aforesaid, the court shall take bond and security from
the person to whom such artition or distribution is made, in
a sufﬁcient penalty, payab e to the State of Tennessee, condi
tioned, if it should become necessary, to refund the (property
so assigned to him, when ordered by the court, an to per
form whatever orders or decrees the court may make, touch
ing the property so partitioned or distributed to him.
§ 4463. If any party to whom such partition or distribution
has been made is-a minor, the refunding bond shall be given
by his guardian. '
§ 4464. The court may, at any time during the life of the
idiot, lunatic, or person of unsound mind, or after his death,
make orders in the cause, till the refunding bonds have been
complied with.
§ 4465. Upon the petition of the guardian of an idiot, or
lunatic or person of unsound mind, the chancery court may,
if it appear manifestly for the interest of the idiot or lunatic,
decree the sale of his property, real or personal.
§ 4466. The court shall dispose of the roceeds of such sale
by reinvestment or otherwise, as shal , in its opinion, be
most for the interest of the owner.
§ 4467, The court shall take from the person, on whose
application the sale is made bond with security, in a penalty
double the amount of such proceeds, payable to the State of
Tennessee, conditioned to perform the decree of the court,
and whatever orders the court may make touching said pro
ceeds.
§ 4468. The chancery court is also vested with power, upon
application by guardian, to sell and reinvest any portion of
the lunatic’s property, real or personal, where it is manifestly
for the interest of such lunatic and family.
§ 4469. Guardians of lunatics, idiots, and other persons of
unsound mind. shall be punishable for the same abuses, mis
managements, neglects, failures, and other offenses, as guar
dians of minors, and in the same manner.
§ 4470. Any person imprisoned or restrained of his liberty,
under any pretense whatsoever, except in cases speciﬁed in
the next section, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus, to
inquire into the cause of such imprisonment and restraint.
§ 4471. Persons committed or detained by virtue of process
issued by a court of the United States, or ajudge thereof, in
cases where such judges or courts have exclusive jurisdiction
under the laws of the United States, or have acquired exclu
sive jurisdiction by the commencement of suits in such ~
courts, are not entitled to the beneﬁts of this writ.
§ 4472. Application for the writ shall be made by petition,
signed either by the party for whose beneﬁt it is intended, or
some person on his behalf, and veriﬁed by afﬁdavit.
§ 4473. The writ may be granted by any judge of the cir
cuit, common law, or criminal courts, or by any chancellor in
cases of equitable cognizance.
§ 4474. The application should be made to the court or judge
most convenient in point of distance to the applicant, unless
a suﬁicient reason be given in the petition for not applying to
such court orjud e.
§ 4475. The petition shall state—
1. That the person in whose behalf the writ is sought, is il
legally restrained of his liberty; and the person by whom
and place where restrained, mentioning the name of such
person, if known, and, if unknown, describing him with as
much particularity as practicable.
'2. The cause or pretense of such restraint according to the
best information of the applicant; and if it be by virtue of
any legal process, a copy thereof shall be annexed, or a satis
factor reason given for its absence.
3. hat the legality of the restraint has not already been
adjudged upon a prior proceeding of the same character, to
the best of the applicant’s knowledge and belief.
4. That it is the ﬁrst application for the writ ; or, if a pre
vious application has been made, a copy of the petition and
proceedings thereon shall be produced, or satisfactory rea
sons be given for the failure so to do.
§ 4476. If, from the showing of the petitioner, the plaintiff B
would not be entitled to any relief, the writ may be refused, "
the reasons for such refusal being brieﬂy endorsed upon the
petition, or appended thereto. '
§ 4477. But if the petition show a suﬁicient ground for re- B
lief, the writ shall be forthwith allowed, and may be substan7
tially as follows:
STATE or TENNESSEE,
County.
To the Sheriff, etc., (or to A. B., as the case may be):
You are hereby commanded ;to have the body of C. B.,
who is alleged to be unlawfully detained by you, before the
court, (or before me, or before E. E., judge, etc., as the
case may be,) at on (or immediately after bein
served with this writ,) to be dealt with according to law, and
have you then and there this writ, with a return thereon of
your doings in the premises.
This day of , 18—. G. H., Judge, etc.
§ 4478. When the writ is allowed by a court in term, it is B
issued by the clerk, but in other'cases the judge or chancel- m
lor issues the writ himself, si ning it ofﬁcially.
§ 4479. It is the duty of the court or judge to act upon P
such applications instanter, and a wron ful and wilful refusal 5
to grant the writ When properly ap lie for, is a misdemeanor
in ofﬁce, besides subjecting the ju ge to damages at the suit
of the party aggrieved.
§ 4480. Whenever any court or judge, authorized to grant g
this writ, has evidence, from a judicial proceeding, that any o
person within the jurisdiction of such court or officer is
illegally imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, it is the
duty of such court or judge to issue, or cause to be issued,
the writ as aforesaid, although no application has been made
therefor.
§ 4481. The writ may be served by the sheriff, coroner, or g
constable, or any other person appointed for that purpose by
the court or judge by whom it is issued or allowed. If served
by any other person than the sheriff, he possesses the same
power, and is liable to the same penalty for non-performance
of his duty as though he were the sheriff.
§ 4482. The proper mode of service is by leaving a copy of
the original writ with the defendant, and making the return
upon the original. ‘ '
§ 4483. If the defendant cannot be found, or if he have not
the plaintiff in custody, the service may be made upon any
person having the plaintiff in his custody, in the same man-
ner and with the same effect as though he had been made a
defendant therein.
§ 4484. If the defendant refuse admittance to the person
attempting to serve the writ, conceal himself, or attempt
wrongfully to carry the plaintiff out of the county or State,

he may be arrested by the person havin the writ, and
brought, together with the plaintiff, immediately before the
ofﬁcer or court before whom the writ is returnable.
§ 4485. In order to make such arrest, the sheriff, or other '
person' having the writ, has the same power as is given to a
sheriff for the arrest of a person charged with a felony.
§ 4486. If the person in whose name the application is
made, can be found, and no one appear to have the charge or
custody of him, the person having the writ may take him
into custody, and make return accordingly; and to get pos
session of the plaintiff’s person in such case, he possesses the
same power as is given by the last section for the arrest of
the defendant. '
§ 4487. The court orjud e to whom the application for the
writ is made, if satisﬁed t at the plaintiﬁ' is likely to suffer
irreparable injury before he could be relieved by the proceed
ings as above authorized, may issue a precept to the sheriff,
or other person selected, commanding him to bring the
plaintiff forthwith before such judge or court.
§ 4488. When the evidence is further sufﬁcient to justify
the arrest of the defendant, for a criminal offense committed
in connection with the illegal detention of the plaintiff, the
recept shall also contain an order for the arrest of the de
endant.
§ 4489. The ofﬁcer or person to whom the precept is di
rected, shall execute the same by bringin the defendant, and
also the plaintiff, if required, before t e court ,or judge
issuing it, and thereupon the defendant shall make return to
the writ of habeas corpus in the same manner as if the ordi
nary course had been pursued.
§ 4490. The defendant may also be examined and com
mitted, bailed, or discharged, according to the nature of the
case.
§ 4491. The writ of habeas corpus shall not be disobeyed for
any defect of form, or misdescription of the plaintiff or de
fendant, provided enough is stated to show the meaning and
intent of the writ.
§ 4492. Any person served with the writ is presumed to be
the person for whom it is intended, although it may be di
rected to him by a wrong name or description, or to another
erson. p
§ 4493. Service bein made in an of the modes herein
before provided, the defendant shal appear at the proper
time, and make due return of the writ, and answer the peti
tion, if re uired.
§ 4494. he person served with the writ, shall state in his
return, plainly and unequivocally—
1. Whether he then has, or at any time has had, the party
in his control or restraint, and, if so, the authority and cause
thereof, setting out the same fully.
2. If the party is detained under a writ, viiarrant or other
written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the re
turn, and the ori inal shall be produced and exhibited to the
court or judge, i? required.
3. If the person on whom the writ has been served, has
had the plaintiff in his custody or power, or under his re
straint, any time before or after the date of the writ, but has
transferred him to another person, he shall state the facts
explicitly, and to whom, at what time, for what cause, and
by What authority such transfer was made.
§ 4495. The return shall be signed by the person making it, R
and veriﬁed by his oath; unless he is a sworn public ofﬁcer, gi
and makes the return inhis ofﬁcial capacity.
§ 4496. At the time of making the return, the person on M
whom the same has been served shall also produce the body {
of the person detained according to the command of the writ, “
or show good cause for not doing so.
§ 4497. If the cause shown for not producing such person f
be sickness or inﬁrmity, the fact shall be veriﬁed by afﬁdavit,
and other evidence if required.
§ 4498. The court may thereupon proceed as if the party P
were produced, or adjourn to the place where such party “
then is or to some other time and place, according to circum
stances.
§ 4499. The ,plaintiﬂ' may demur or reply to the return, “
and all issues shall be tried by the court or judge in a sum- “
mary way, the examination being adjourned from time to
time, if necessary to the proper administration of justice,
and all such orders being made for the custody of the plaintiff,
in the meantime, as the nature of the case requires.
§ 4500. The plaintiff: may also, in any case, be committed, P
let to bail, or his bail diminished or increased, as justice
may require.
§ 4501. If no sufﬁcient legal cause of detention is shown, D
the plaintiff shall be discharged.
§ 4502. Although the commitment of the person detained C
may have been irregular, still, if the court or judge is satisﬁed,
from the examination, that he ought to be held to bail, or
committed, either for the offense charged, or any other, the
order shall be made accordingly.
§ 4503. The plaintiﬁ, in writing or his attorney, may waive
his right to be present at the examination, in which case the
proceedin s may be had in his absence.
§ 4504. §isobedience of the original writ, or any subsequent
order thereon, subjects the defendant to commitment for con-
tempt, and also to a forfeiture of one thousand dollars to the
party ag rieved, besides rendering him liable for all damages
sustaine in consequence of such disobedience.
§ 4505. The attempt to elude the service of the writ of
habeas corpus, or to avoid the effect thereof by transferring
the plaintiff to another, or by concealing him, is a high mis
demeanor, for which the guilty person, and any one know
ingly aiding or abetting him therein, shall be ﬁned, on con
viction, not mdre than one thousand dollars, and imprisoned
not more than one year.
§ 4506. Subprena for witnesses in all proceedings under this chapter, may be issued by the court or judge ranting the writ, or before whom the same is returnable, or ' y any jus
tice of the peace. ‘
§ 4507. Witnesses thus summoned are subject to the same
penalties, and entitled to the same privileges and fees, as
other witnesses.v
§ 4508. Upon failure of the witness to attend, the fact shall
be noted by the oﬂicer before whom the subpoena is returned,
on the back thereof, and transmitted to the clerk of the cir
cuit court of the county, who will issue sm'rc facias as in
other cases.
§ 4509. Any oﬁicer- refusing _to deliver a copy of any legal
process by which he retains a party in custody, to a person
who demands such copy, and tenders the fees therefor, for
feits two hundred dollars to the person so detained.
§ 4510. The proceedings under a writ of habeus corpus. in
cluding all the papers in the cause, and the ﬁnal order, shall
be returned by the judge to his nearest court, to be there
ﬁled b the clerk as other records, a brief memorandum
thereof, dul indexed, bein made upon the judgment or ex
ecution doc et, and, such c erk taxing the costs and issuing
execution therefor, as in other cases.
§ 4511. The party detained shall be remanded to custody, if
it apligars he is detained—v
1. y virtue of process issued b
United States, in a case where such,
elusive jurisdiction.
2. Where the time during which such party may be legally
detained has not expired.
1 3. In every case in which the detention is authorized by
aw.
a' court or judge of the
court or judge has ex
§ 4512. The costs of proceedings under this chapter, except
when otherwise expressly provided, shall be adjudged as the
court orjudge may think right, and taxed and collected as in
other cases.
§ 4513. \Vhere the defendant in a criminal prosecution is
brought before any circuit or criminal judo’e on a writ of
habeas corpus, and discharged by the judge, t e costs shall be
paid as in other State cases, when the defendant is tried and
acquitted by a jury.
§ 4514. When the defendant in the cases provided for in the
preceding section is charged with a felony, the jud e shall
make out and certify the bill of costs, and deliver t 1e same
to the clerk of the circuit court before which the defendant
is bound to appear, by whom the costs shall be collected and
paid out as in other cases.
§ 4515. If the defendant is charged with a misdemeanor,
the judge shall deliver the bill of costs, made out and cer
tiﬁed as before, to the county court of the county in which
the defendant was charged with committing 'the offense, by
whom the same shall be allowed as in other cases.

§ 4516. The provisions of this Code relating to injunctions,
appointment of receivers, and other extraordinary process,
apply equally to equity proceedings in any of the courts of
this State. - '
‘ 4517. In real actions, and in actions for the recovery of
personal property in specie, the court in which the suit is
pending may restrain the injury, removal, or destruction of
the property by process of injunction, until the cause is ﬁnally
disposed of.
§ 4518. The courts of this State are all vested with power to
appoint receivers for the safe keeping, collection, manage-
ment and disposition of property in litigation in such court,
whenever necessary to the ends of substantial justice, in like
manner as receivers are appointed by courts of chancery.
§ 4519. In all proper cases, also, any of the courts may use
all other extraordinary process of the court of chancery, and
in the same way as that court, when necessary to effect the
ends of justice.
§ 4520. Persons empowered to administer oaths, except
when otherwise expressly provided, shall re uire the party
to be sworn, to lay his hand upon the Newa‘estament, and
solemnly swear, upon the Holy Evangelists of Almighty
God, to speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth, or other oath prescribed in the particular case, and
kiss the book as a seal of conﬁrmation of the engagement.
§ 4521. If the person to be sworn is conscientiously scrupu
lous of takin the book oath, he may be sworn with the
right hand up ifted, in the following form :
“ I (or you) do solemnly appeal to God as a witness of the
truth, and avenger of falsehood, as I shall answer for the
same at the reat day of judgment, when the secrets of all
hearts shall ge known, that,” etc. (as the nature of the case
may be).
§ 4522. All persons conscientiously scrupulous of taking an
oath, may make solemn aﬁirmation in the words of the oath
required.
§ 4523. Persons may also be sworn according to the forms
of their own country, or particular religious creed, when re
quired.
§ 4524. In whatever mode the oath or afﬁrmation is admin
istered, it will be held legally binding, and the person swear
ing or aﬂirmin will be subject to al the pains and penalties
of perjury as i administered in the mode prescribed by this chapter, unless the form is objected to at the time.
§ 4525. Every written contract, instrument, or si nature pur
porting to be executed by the party sought to ie charged;
is partner, agent, or attorney in fact, and constituting the
foundation of an action, is conclusive evidence against such
party, unless the execution thereof is denied under oath.
§ 4526. If the party be dead, the personal representative
. -may make the denial under oath “according to the best of
his knowledge, information, and belief.”
§ 4527. The execution or assignment of instruments offered
in evidence by the defendant, when allowed by law, is equally
conclusive as when introduced by plaintiff, unless denied un
der oath.
§ 4528. Whenever two or more persons bring a suit at law
. .
as partners upon an account, bill of exchange, bond or note,
either before a magistrate or a court of record, it shall not be
necessary for them to prove their partnership, unless the de
fendant ﬁles a plea in abatement, in writing, denying the
partnership on oath.
§ 4529. An account on which action is brought, coming
\from another county of this State, with the afﬁdavit of the
plaintiff to its correctness, and the certiﬁcate of a notary
public, with his oﬂ‘icial seal annexed thereto, or the certiﬁ
cate of a justice of the peace, with the certiﬁcate of the
clerk of the county court that such justice is an acting
justice within his county; or, an account on which action is
brought, coming from another State, with the afﬁdavit of the
plaintiff to its correctness, and the certiﬁcate of a notary pub
lic, with his ofﬁcial seal annexed, or the certiﬁcate of a State
commissioner, is conclusive a ainst the party sought to be
charged, unless he shall on oath deny the account.
§ 4530. On the trial of actions for goods, wares,_and mer
chandise, sold and delivered, or for work and labor done and
performed, or on executing a writ of inquiry in such action,
the plaintiff ’s book of accounts shall be admissible evidence
of the sale and delivery of articles not exceeding seventy-ﬁve
dollars in value, which were delivered within two years be
fore the action brought, if the plaintiff make oath—
, That the matter in dispute is a book account;
That he has no means to prove the delivery of such articles
as he shall then propose to prove by his own oath, but by his
book ;
That the book contains a true account of all the dealings,
or last settlement of accounts between them ;
That all the articles therein contained, and by him so
proved, were really delivered; and,
That he has given the defendant all just credits.
§ 4531. Where the creditor who delivered the goods, wares,
and merchandise sued for, or performed the work and labor,
is dead, his personal representative may 've his book of
accounts in evidence, on making oath or a mutation—
That he verily believes the account as there charged is just
and true; '
That there are no witnesses, to his knowledge, capable of
proving the delivery of the articles, or performance of the
work and labor roposed to be proved by the book;
That he found) the hook with the account so stated; and,
That he knows of no further or other credit to be given,
except what is therein mentioned.
§ 4532. A copy from the book of accounts, proved in manner
aforesaid, may be given in evidence in said actions, and shall
be as available as if the book had been produced, unless the
defendant or his attorney give notice to the plaintiff or his
attorney at the joining of the issue, that he will require the
ook to be produced on the trial. The defendant may con
test the plaintiff’s evidence, and oppose the same by other
legal evidence.
§ 4533. And if the defendant and plaintiff are both executors
or administrators, the book of the defendant’s testator or in
testate may be given in evidence against the book of the
plaintiff’s testator or intestate, for such articles as shall be
proved in manner aforesaid.
§ 4534. The provisions of section 4564 shall not be construed
as repealing, or in any manner aﬁ'ecting any of the provisions
of this article of the Code.
§ 4535. The settlements of personal representatives and
guardians, made in the county court in pursuance of law,
are to be taken as prima facie correct.
§ 4536. The certiﬁcate of a notary public in or on his pro
test. that he has giventhe parties to negotiable paper notice
of the dishonor, is prima facie evidence of the facts stated in
the certiﬁcate; and in like. manner, entries in his books to
the same effect, are prima facic evidence in case of his death,
of the facts therein stated.
§ 4537. In actions between corporations and their stock
holders, a copy of the proceedings of the board of directors,
and the subscription and other books of the company, cer
tiﬁed by the secretary under the corporate seal, shall be
evidence. 
§ 4538. All receipts, releases and discharges in writing,
whether of a debt of record or a contract under seal, or
otherwise, shall have effect, according to the intention of the
parties thereto.
§ 4539. All settlements in writing, made in good faith, for
the composition of debts, shall be taken as evidence, and
held to operate according to the intention of the parties,
although no release under seal is given, and no new consid»
eration has passed.
§ 4540. In all cases wherein suits or actions may hereafter be
brought, in any of the courts of this State, for the recovery
or possession of any land or real estate, or any interest therein
of any kind or description, which real estate, land or interest
therein (whether interest was in fee simple, in remainder, in
reversion or expectancy, absolute, conditional, vested or con
tingent, in presenti or in future, belonging to parties in @880,
or thereafter to be born), shall have been sold under any
judgment, order or decree of any county, circuit, chancery or
Supreme Court, or other court of record in this State, before
the 8th day of June, A. D., one thousand eight hundred and
sixty-one, the court in which said suit or action may be brought
(whether suit or action be by bill,by bill of review, by appeal
in the nature of a writ of error, by original summons at law
or in equity, or otherwise). shall presume that all persons
who may have been named as parties to the suit, bill. peti
tion, order, judgment or decree, under which said land, real
estate, or interest therein, was sold, were properly and legally
before the court ordering said sale, and that such persons,
and each of them, had been properly summoned, and served
with all necessary le al notice, and that all proper and neces
sary notices and pu lications had been given and made by
the court ordering the sale of said lands, real estate, and in
terest therein; and the courts of this State shall presume as
herein provided, whether said sales be directly or collaterally
attacked or involved; Provided, that nothin herein con
tained shall prevent any Party in interest to said suits or ac
tions from averring and proving by afﬁrmative evidence, that
such party had not been properly brou ht before the court
ordering sale, or properly served with tv e notices and sum
mons required by law.
§ 4541. Duly certiﬁed copies of all records and entries, oﬁi
cial bonds, or other papers belonging to any public oﬂice, or
by authority of law ﬁled to be kept therein, are evidence in
all cases.
§ 4542. The records, books, and papers, belonging to the
county entry-taker’s ofﬁces in this State, shall be ﬁled in the
ofﬁces of the registers of said counties, respectively, whose
duty it shall be to preserve the same, and, on application. to
issue certiﬁed copies thereof; and for each paper so certiﬁed
a fee of twenty-ﬁve cents shall be paid; and said copies shall
be received as evidence in any of the courts of this State.
§ 4543. Whenever any of the records of any of the counties
of this State are transcribed by authority of the county court,
on account of the original being mutilated, defaced, or for
any other cause, a certiﬁed copy from such transcribed rec
ords, shall be admissible as evidence in the several courts of
this State, and shall have the same validity as if it had been
made from the original record. '
§ 4544. The term “records,” used in the foregoing section,
includes any record of any county, common law, circuit, crim
inal, 0r chancery court, and, in general, every public record
required by law to be kept in any court of this State; and,
also, the books of the registers, the surveyors, and the entry
takers throughout the State.
§ 4545. Every oﬂicer having the custody of a public record
or writing, is bound to give any person, on demand, a cer
tiﬁed copy thereof, on payment of the legal fees; and if no
fee has been ﬁxed by law, on payment of reasonable compen
sation.
§ 4546. The certiﬁcate of a public ofﬁcer that he has made
diligent and ineffectual search for a paper in his oﬂice, is of
the same eﬂicacy in all cases as if such ofﬁcer had personally
appeared and sworn to such facts.
§ 4547. A judicial record of this State is proved by the
production of the original, or by a copy thereof, certiﬁed by
the clerk or the person having the legal custody thereof, au
. thcnticated by his seal of oﬁice, if he have one.
§ 4548. A judicial record of a sister State, or of any of the
federal courts of the United States, may be proved by a copy
thereof, attested by the clerk, under his seal of ofﬁce, if e
have one, together with a certiﬁcate of a judge, chief justice
or presiding magistrate, that the attestation is in due form of
law. 
§ 4549. The oﬂicial certiﬁcate of a justice of the peace of
this State, or of any of the United States, to any judgment,
and the preliminary proceedings before him, with the ofﬁcial
certiﬁcate of the clerk of any court of record within the county
in which such justice resides, stating that he is an actingjus
ticc of the peace of that county, and that the signature to his
certiﬁcate is genuine, is evidence of such proceedings and
judgment.
§ 4550. Copies of the records and proceedings in the courts
of a foreign country, may be admitted in evidence, upon
being authenticated as follows:
1. By oﬂicial attestation of the clerk or oﬂicer in whose
custody such records are usually kept; and,
2. By the certiﬁcate of one of the judges or magistrates
of such court, that the person so attesting is the clerk or
ofﬁcer legally intrusted with the custody of such records,
and that the signature to his attestation is genuine.
3. By the ofﬁcial certiﬁcate of the ofﬁcer who has the
custody of the great seal of the Government under whose
authority the court is held, attested by said seal, stating such
court is duly constituted, and has jurisdiction of the subject
of the record, and that the seal of the court is genuine.
§ 4551. Acts of the executive of the United States, or of
this or any other State of the Union, or of a forei n govern
ment, are proved by the records of the State epartment
of the respective governments, or by public documents pur
porting to have been printed by order of the Legislatures of
those governments respectively, or by either branch thereof.
§ 4552. The proceedings of the Legislature of this State, or
any other State of the Union, or of the United States, or
of any foreign government, are proved. by the journals of
those bo‘dies respectively, or of elther branch thereof, either
by copies ofﬁcially certiﬁed by the oﬂicer having custody of
the originals, or by a copy purporting 'to have been printed
by the order of such Legislature, or either branch thereof.
§ 4553. Printed copies of the statute laws of this State or
any. other of the United States, or of Congress, or of any
forei n government, purporting or proved to have been pub
lishe under the authority thereof, or proved to be com
monly admitted as evidence of the existing laws in the courts
of such State or goverment, shall be admitted in the courts
of this State as presumptive evidence of such laws.
§ 4554. And it shall not be necessary, in a case carried from
an inferior to a superior court, to have the statutes of aState
read as evidence in the inferior court, transcribed into the
record, except where it is directed to be done by the inferior
court; but the superior court may take judicial notice of
such laws and statutes, and decide upon them accordingly.
§ 4555. A copy of a written law, or other public writing of
any State or government, authenticated by the great sea of
such State or government, is also evidence of such law or
writing.
§ 4556. The certiﬁcate of the head of any department or
bureau of the general government, is a sufﬁcient authentica
tion of any paper or document appertaining or belonging to
his ofﬁce.
§ 4557. Private acts of the Legislature of this or any other
State, may be given in evidence without pleading them
specially.
§ 4558. A copy of any executive act, le 'slative proceedin s,
public or private law, of any State of t e Union, or of t e
general government, taken from any of the printed books in
the library of the State, made evidence by the foregoing sec
tions, and certiﬁed by the Secretary of State to be a correct
copy from such book, will be evidence as if the book itself
had been produced.
§ 4559. The Secretary of State will be allowed for such
copy, at the rate of ten cents for every hundred words, and
twenty-ﬁve cents for the certiﬁcate.
§ 4560. Every person of sufﬁcient capacity to understand
the obligation of an oath, is competent to be a witness.
§ 4561. The judge of the court is a competent witness for
either party, in any cause tried before him, either of a civil
or criminal nature.
§ 4562. Persons are rendered incompetent by conviction and
sentence for the following crimes, unless they have been re-
stored to full citizenship, under the law provided for that
purpose, viz:
Abuse of female child, arson and felonious burning, big_
amy, burglary, felonious breaking and enterin mansion
house, bri ery, buggery, counterfeiting, or violatmg any of
the provisions to suppress the same, destroying will, forgery,
house-breaking, incest, larceny, perjury, robbery, receiving
stolen property, rape, sodomy, stealing bills of exchange or
other valuable papers, subornation of perjury.
§ 4563. In all civil actions in the courts of this State, no
person shall be incompetent to testify because he or she is a
. . . .
party to, or interested 1n, the issue tried, or because of the
disabilities 0f coverture; but neither husband nor wife shall
testify as to any matter that occurred between them by virtue
of or in consequence of the marital relation.
55
§ 4564. It shall not be lawful for any party to any pro
action or conversation with, or statement by, any opposite
_ , . - .
ceeding in any court of this State to 'testity as to any trans
party in interest, if such opposite party is incapacitated or
disqualiﬁed to testify thereto, by reason of idiocy, lunacy or
insanity, unless called by the opposite side, and then only in
the discretion of the court.
§ 4565. In actions or proceedings by or against executors,
administrators, or guardians, in which jud ments may be
rendered for or against them, neither party s all be allowed
to testify against the other as to any-transaction with or
statement by the testator, intestate, or ward, unless called to
testify thereto by the opposite party.
§ 4566. Nothing in any section of this article shall be so
construed as to require a party to be put under the rule, when
a witness in any cause in which the rule has been applied for
and granted.
§ 4567. The attendance of witnesses to give testimony is
procured by subpwna or summons, requiring the witness to
be present at a prescribed time and place to give testimony
in a case, or matter therein stated, mentioning the names. of
the parties litigant, and the party at whose instance he is to
be summoned, and, if necessary, requiring him also to bring
with him any books, documents, or other writings under his
control, and which he is not excused by law from producing
in evidence.
§ 4568. The subpmna is issued by thejustice or clerk of the
court, as the case may be, at any time on the request of the
party wishing the process.
§ 4569. A subpoena returnable instanter issues only in term
time, or while a case is being tried before a justice, and shall
be served personally on the witness.
§ 4570. If issued in vacation, it may be served, in casethe
witness cannot be found, by leaving a copy at his usual place
of residence:
§ 4571. Any justice of the peace granting an appeal, shall
on application of either part , issue subpaanas, directed to
the sheriff, or other lawful o 'cer, in any county within the
State, for witnesses to ap ear and give testimony at the court
to which the appeal is ta en. '
§ 4572. Due respect shall be paid to said subpoenas; and
the ofﬁcer to whom the are directed, and every witness
thereon summoned, shall be under the same rules, and sub
ject to the same penalties, and entitled to the same pay and
privileges, as if such subpoena had issued from the clerk of
the court to which the appeal is taken.
§ 4573. Every witness legally bound to appear as herein di
rected, shall ap ear accor ingly, and continue to attend from
day to day, and) from term to term, until discharged by the
court, or the party at whose instance he is summoned.
§ 4574. In default thereof, he forfeits to the party at Whose
instance the subpoena issues, the sum of one hundred and
twenty-ﬁve dollars, to be recovered by scirefacias; and he is
further liable to the action of the party for the full damages
sustained for want of his testimony.
§ 4575. The attendance of Witnesses 1n criminal cases is en
forced in the same way, subject to the same rules, except that
the penalty for failing to attend 18 two hundred and ﬁfty dol
lars.
§ 4576. Upon return of the scire facias issued for the pen
alty, the witness may be relieved by showing sufﬁcient cause
for failing to attend; otherwise, on motion, judgment will be
given against him, and execution issue accordingly.
§ 4577. If any witness refuse to give testimony when legally
bound, he shall be committed to the common jail, by the
court, justice, or commissioner. before whom he is bound to
testify, there to remain without bail or mainprise, until he is
willing to testify as the law directs.
§ 4578. If a witness fail to appear when summoned before a
justice of the peace, or commissioner, the subptena is re
turned to the circuit court of the county, with the endorse
ment of such failure made thereon by the justice or commis
sioner, and scire facias issues, as in other cases.
§ 4579. The party at whose instance a witness is summoned
before a justice of the peace, on the trial of a cause, may, at
his election, instead of having the subpoena returned to court
as in the foregoing section, move before the justice for judg
ment against the witness, in which case, a conditional judg
ment shall be iven for twenty-ﬁve dollars, and scire facz'as
shall issue to t 1e witness to show cause why ﬁnal judgment
shall not be entered, and on failure to show cause, ﬁnal judg
ment shall be rendered for the penalty and costs.
§ 4580. Justices of the peace may issue subpoenas for wit-
nesses in an adjoining count , and such Witnesses thus sum-
moned are required to atteu under the usual penalties.
§ 4581. During the attendance of any person summoned as
a witness, and during the time that he is' going to and return-
ing from the place of such attendance, allowmg one day for
every thirty miles of travel, no writ, process, warrant, order,
judgment, or decree in any civil cause, subpmna to testify as
a witness only excepted, shall be served upon him.
§ 582. \Vitnesses in courts of record shall receive a com-
pensation of one dollar per day for each day’s necessary attendance;
and when they reside at a greater distance than
ten miles, four cents per mile for gomg to and returning
from court, and ferriages as now allowed by law; but mile
age and ferriage shall be allowed only for one trip going and
returning during the term of any court, unless the witness is
discharged by the parties, to return, and does return, upon
a given day.
§ 4583. All witnesses attending, under summons, any court
of record in any county in this State, other than the county
in which said witness or witnesses live, shall be entitled to
the sum of one dollar and a half per day for such' attend
ance, and ﬁve cents per mile for every mile traveled in going
to and returning from such court, and all necessary tolls and
ferriage.
§ 4584. Every witness summoned before a justice of the
peace is entitled to ﬁfty cents for each day’s attendance, and
when summoned to attend in another county from that of
his own, shall be entitled to ﬁve cents per mile for every mile
in going to and returning from said county, and all necessary
tolls and ferriage. -
§ 4585. Whenever a party in a court of record recovers a
judgment or decree against another for costs, and it appears
trom the return of the execution that such costs cannot be
made out of the person against whom they have been ad
judged, the witnesses summoned by the successful arty may
have jud ment by motion against such party for t eir costs.
§ 4586. he clerks of the different courts in this State may
- 7 -
take probate of Witnesses attendance, at any time between
the commencement and the ﬁnal decision of the cause, either
in vacation or in term time.
§ 4587. N0 Witness shall prove his attendance in more than
four suits, where one of the parties is the same, and the ques
tion to be tried is the same.
§ 4588. If the suit in which the witness is summoned is set
- - . .
tled 1n vacation, and the party summoning him neglects to
dlschar e the Witness from further attendance and he, for
5 . ’ .
want ot such discharge, should attend at the next term, he is
entitled to prove one day’s attendance.
§ 4589. The evidence of witnesses may be taken by deposi
tion, in civil actions, by either party—
1. When the witness from age, bodily inﬁrmity, or other
cause, is incapable of attending, to give testimony at the
trial.
2. When he resides out of the State.
3. When he resides in the State, but not within the limits
of the county in which the suit is pending, in which case the
adverse party, may, if he desire to have the ,witness ex
amined in open court, cause him to be subpccnaed. 4
When he is under the necessity of leaving the State be
fore the cause is tried, or even before it is at issue.
5. \Vhen his about to leave the county in which the suit
is pending, and will probably not return until after the trial.
6. When he is the only witness to a material fact.
7. When he is an ofﬁcer of the United States, an ofﬁcer of
this State, or of any county in the State, the clerk of any
court of record other than that in which the suit is pendin ,
a member of the General Assembly while in session, or cleigr
or oﬂicer thereof, a practicing physician or attorney, a jailer
or keeper of a ublic prison in any county other than that in
which the suit 1s pending. -
8. When he is a notary public, whether a suit be pending
or not; to be evidence between the same parties in any suit
then or thereafter depending, should the notary die or re
move out of the State before the trial.
9. When the suit is brought by a party informa pauperis.
§ 4590., In all civil suits in the circuit and chancery courts of
this State, in which either plaintiffs or defendants may desire
to introduce the testimony of any female, the party to said
suit shall be, and is hereby required to take the deposition of
such female before some one authorized under cxistin laws
to take depositions, which, at the request of such Witness,
shall be the justice or other authorized person most conven
ient to such witness. and the parties taking depositions under
this section, shall proceed as prescribed under the laws now
existinv in reference to taking depositions, and all deposi
tions, thus taken, may be read as evidence in the suit in ref
erence to which the same may be taken, and the litigating
parties to such' civil suits shall have no power to compel female
witnesses to attend and give evidence in court, unless upon
suﬂicient cause shown, and the order of the court therefor.
§ 4591. The deposition of any person rcsidinv in the county
in which the suit, is pending, may also be ta 'en by either
party, but the o posite party may summon the witness, in
which case, he sliall be examined as if summoned by the par
ty taking his deposition.
§ 4592. The depositions of witnesses in the cases enumerated
in sub-sections one, four, ﬁve, and six, may be taken at any
time after action brought, upon such notice as the court or
justice may order, or upon giving the usual notice as herein
after provided.
§ 4593. The witness, if he occupies any of ‘the positions, or
is employed in any of the capacities enumerated in sub-sec
tion seven, is exempt from the penalties provided for the non
atteudance of witnesses summoned by subpoena, provided he
claim such exemption at the time the subpoena is served,
statin the ground thereof, in which case the ofﬁcer will re
turn t 1e facts according to the claim.
§ 4594. If the witness fail to claim exemption at the time
mentioned, he may be allowed the beneﬁt of it, by application
to the court.
§ 4595. A false claim set up by the witness, shall in no way
affect the right of the party summoning the witness, to pro
ceed against him under the provisions of this Code, and the
burden of proof is on the witness, upon scire facias, to show
the fact entitling him to exemption.
§ 4596. If the adverse party should desire to have any wit
ness examined in_ open court, whose deposition has been taken
under the provisions of this chapter, he may compel the at
tendance of such witness as in other cases, unless the witness
is exempt by law from the usual penalties.
§ 4597. After a deposition has been taken without cross
examination atthe time, the witness may subsequently be
cross-examined, upon notice to that effect.
§ 4598. Any court or justice of the peace, before whom an
action is pending, may make orders, and issue commissions
to take depositions, upon the application of either party, in
any of the cases enumerated in the preceding article, when
ever the facts are made to appear, by oath or otherwise, and
an order or commission is necessary. -
§ 4599. The clerk or deputy clerk of any court of record,
may, in like manner, make the order, or issue the commission
to take depositions, upon a proper case made out.
§ 4600. The court or justice may also, on geod cause shown,
prescribe the notice to be given to the opposite party of the
time and place of taking the deposition,
§ 4601. But either party litigant before any justice of the
peace, or in any of the courts of this State may, without
any order or commission, take the depositions of witnesses
in all cases allowed by law, upon giving the opposite party'
legal notice of the time and place, or by ﬁling interrogato
ries as herein provided.
§ 4602. The caption and certiﬁcate shall be substantially as
follows:
A. B. In the court,
vs. county, '1 ennessee:
C. D. Depositions of and ,witnesses for plain
tiﬁ‘ (or defendant) in the above case, taken upon notice, (or
interrogatories), on the day of , 18—, at , in
the presence of the plaintiff and defendant (show the fact).
The said witness , aged , being duly sworn, de
posed as follows:
The foregoing depositions were taken before me, as stated
in the caption, and reduced to writing by me, or by the wit
nesses.) And I certify that I am not intereste in the cause,
nor of kin or counsel to either of the parties, and that I
sealed them up and delivered them to , (or delivered them
to the express ofﬁce; or put them in the postoﬂice), without
being out of my possession, or altered after they were taken.
Given under my hand the — day of , 18—.
§ 4603, The last clause maybe written across the back of the
envelope on the sealed side, instead of inserting it in the cer
tiﬁcate.
§ 4604. In all cases in which more than one person is plain
tiﬁ or defendant, the court or clerk may determine whether
notice shall be given to each person, and, if not, to whom
notice shall be given; a memorandum of the order being
kept among the papers. 
§ 4605. The notice required to .take depositions, shall be
served on the opposite party at least ﬁve days beforehand,
when the depositions are to be taken in the county in which
the suit is pendin .
§ 4606. When ti
e depositions are to be taken out of the Be
county, the notice shall be as follows : for ﬁfty miles or under,
ﬁve days; from ﬁfty t0‘one hundred miles, ten days; over
one hundred and not exceeding two hundred and ﬁfty miles,
ﬁfteen days; if over two hundred and ﬁfty and not exceeding
ﬁve hundred, twenty days; if over ﬁve hundred, thirty days.
§ 4607. When the deposition is to be taken in any State or
territory of the United States. west of the Rocky Mountains,
such time as the court or clerk may order, not exceeding
forty days; in foreign countries, such time as the court or
clerk may order.
§ 4608. The sheriﬁ', coroner, or constable of any county in
this State, into whose hands a notice to take depositions has
been put, shall deliver a copy of such notice to the proper
person in due time, and return the original notice, with the
time of delivery marked thereon, to the court or justice be
fore whom the suit is pending.
§ 4609. It shall be suﬁicient to serve notice of time and
place of taking depositions upon the counsel of non-resident
parties, and such service shall have the same effect as if served
on the party himself.
§ 4610. \Vhen the witnesses reside out of the State, or over
one hundred and ﬁfty miles from the place of trial,_either
party may take depositions by ﬁling interrogatories with the
clerk, giving the opposite party notice thereof, who shall
have ten days thereafter to ﬁle cross interrogatories, to which
rebutting interrogatories may then be put; at any time after
which the deposition may be taken upon a certiﬁed copy of
the interrogatories, to be issued by the clerk.
§ 4611. If the opposite party is a non-resident, or if judg
ment by default or pro confesso has been taken for want of
appearance and defense, the depositions may be taken by
ﬁling with the clerk a copy of the interrogatories, with a
memorandum of the time and place of taking the deposi
tions, for twenty days before taking the same.
§ 4612. In all cases where depositions are taken by ﬁling in
terrogatories with the clerk, it shall be the duty of the clerk
to give notice of the ﬁling of such interrogatories to the
counsel Of the opposite party, and such notice shall be sufﬁ
cient, if such opposite party he a non-resident.
§ 4613. The word “clerk,” in the preceding sections, in
cludes justices of the peace, who are, for the purposes of this article, clerks of their own courts.
§ 4614. Any person authorized to take depositions, is, while
engaged in the discharge of his duties, vested with all the
powers of a court to preserve order, revent interruption,
and control the conduct of the parties in the examination of
the witness.
§ 4615. The commissioner, having ﬁrst sworn the witness
according to law, should require the questions to be reduced c
to writing before being at, and then read to the witness,
and shou d take down 1118 answers in writing, or cause the
same to be done by the witness himself, as near as may be in
the witness’ own words. i
DirectOry.
11 Lea, 430.
§ 4616. The depositions, when complete, shall be enveloped,
together with the commission, if an , and all documents
which may have been deposed to, sea ed, with the commis
sioner’s name written across the seal, and directed to the
clerk of the court where the cause is pending, with the title
of the cause endorsed thereon, and may be sent by mail, ex
press, or private conveyance.
§ 4617. If sent by private conveyance, the person deliverin
it shall make afﬁdavit before the clerk, that he receive
the de osition from the commissioner, that it has not been
out of his possession, or opened by him, or while in his posses
men.
§ 4618. When depositions are received by the clerk he shall
certify upon them whether received by mail, express, or
private conveyance. _
§ 4619. The commissioner, or person authorized to take
depositions, has power to issue subpaana for witnesses, which
may be served by the sheriff or any constable; and the certiﬁ
cate of the commissioner, or erson authorized, that the
witness failed to appear, toget er with the return of the
ofﬁcer, is proof of the fact.
§ 4620. Any Witness who fails to appear in such cases, ac
cording to the terms of the subpmna, or to answer the ques
tions which may be lawfully put to him, is subject to the pen
alties provided for enforcing the attendance of witnesses to
give testimony in court, an compelling them to testify.
§ 4621. 'The penalty for non-attendance may be enforced by
the tribunal having cognizance of the suit, upon scire facias
as in other cases.
§ 4622, Depositions may be taken by any judge, justice of
the peace, mayor or chief magistrate of a town or city, the
clerk of any court, or any other person properly commis
sioned or appointed by the court or clerk, not being inter
ested, of counsel, or related to either of the parties within
the sixth degree, computing by the civil law.
§ 4623. They may also be taken by any notary public of
this State, in the county in which he resides; and the cer
tiﬁcate of the notary shall show his locality.
§ 4624, Depositions may be taken in all cases pending be
fore justices ot the peace, under the same rules, regulations,
and restrictions, as in cases pending in the courts of record.
§ 4625. The clerk will endorse upon the deposition the day
it is ﬁled, and make an entry upon the docket, giving the
style of the cause, the names of the witnesses, an the date
of ﬁling. ~
§ 4626. All exceptions to depositions for want of notice, be
cause not ﬁled in reasonable time, or for other causes going
to the admissibility thereof, except objections to the compe
tency of the witness or his evidence, shall be made and dis
posed of before the commencement of the hearing or trial,
otherwise they will be considered as waived.
§ 4627. It is the duty of the clerk to act upon the excep
tions made before the hearin forthwith, and from his decision
an appeal lies to the chancel or or judge, to be disposed of be
fore the cause is heard or tried.
§ 4628. Depositions may be opened by the clerk at any time
after they are ﬁled, at the request of either of the parties or
his attorney, and copies furnished the parties on demand.
The clerk shall note on the deposition the fact that it is
opened by him. 
§ 4629. If the testimony of any person within this State is
required in any suit pending before a judicial tribunal of the
United States, or of any of the States or territories of the
Union, or of any foreign government, and such person rc
fuses to appear or give testimony before a commissioner le
gally authorized to take his examination, under a commission
properly issued and authenticated according to the rules and
aws of the court from which it issues, his testimony may be
procured in the following mode:
§ 4630. The commissioner, or the person upon whose ap
plication the commission issued, may apply to any judge of
the superior courts of this State, or to any justice of the
peace of the county within which the witness resides, who
shall, upon production of the commission and satisfactory
proof of the refusal of the witness to appear or give testi
mony as above, issue a subpoena, in the usual form, for such
witness, requiring him to appear before the commissioner at
a certain time and place, to answer such interrogatories as
may be le ally propounded to him under the commission.
§ 4631. he subpoena shall not command the witness to ap
pear witnin less than two days after the service, nor out of
the count where he resides.
§ 4632. on due service of the subpoena, it shall be re
turned by tlie ofﬁcer, with the roper endorsement of service,
on or before the time appointed) for the examination; and,on
the refusal or neglect of the witness to comply with its man
date, certiﬁed by the commissioner thereon, and returned to
the circuit court of the county in which he resides, such wit
ness shall be subject to all the pains and enalties he would
have been subject to for a similar default in any cause pend
ing in the courts of this State.
§ 4633. The person whose evidence is required under a for- r
eign commission, is entitled to the same fees as a person sum
moned to give testimony in the circuit courts of this State.
§ 4634. Any person may have evidence taken conditibnally,
to be used in pending or expected litigation, and have the
same periiituated, under the provisions of this chapter.
§ 4635. e shall present a petition in writing to the judge
of the circuit or chancery court, setting forth the reasons for
the applications, the subject matter of controversy, the names
of the parties interested, and the names of the witnesses, and
praying that their depositions be taken and perpetuated.
§ 4636. The judge will, thereupon, make an order appoint
ing a time and place for the o posite party to appear and
show cause why the prayer 0 the petition should not be
granted, prescribing reasonable notice to the party.
§ 4637. The notice may be given to a non-resident by pub
lication in such newspapers, and for such length of time, or
in such other manner as the judge may direct.
§ 4638. If, after notice, no sufﬁcient cause is shown to the
contrary, the deposition of the witness shall be taken by the
judge, or some other person by him appointed, and at such
time and place as he may prescribe.
§ 4639. The judge, or other person appointed by him to
take the deposition, is authorized to enforce the attendance
and testimony of witnesses by subpoena and otherwise, as in
other cases, and to adjourn from time to time as necessity or
convenience may require.
§ 4640. Depositions taken _under the foregoing revisions
shall be scaled up, and directed to the register of t e county
in which the petitioner or some one of the petitioners reside,
and if none of the petitioners reside in the State, to the reg
ister of the county in which some one of the opposite party
resides.
§ 4641. The-judge may direct the county in which the pro
ceedings shall be registered in all cases, the foregoing section
applying when no such order has been made.
§ 4642. The register to whom the deposition and other pro
ceedings are sent, shall spread the same at length upon the
records of his ofﬁce, and furnish copies when required, upon
payment of legal fees.
§ 4643. Copies of depositions taken as aforesaid, duly cer
tiﬁed by the register, shall he received in evidence at any
time thereafter, in any suit between the parties mentioned in
the petition, or their privies in interest, upon proof of the
death, insanity, or departure to some place unknown, of the
witness at the time of the trial.
§ 4644. The person at whose instance the depositions are
taken, shall pay the costs of taking and registering the same,
and of all the attendant proceedings, and security may be re—
quired by the judge for such costs, upon presentation of the
petition.
§ 4645. The usual fees for similar services, may be charged
by any ofﬁcer whose services are required in the course of the
proceedings.
§ 4646. The register for registering the proceedings and
depositions, and for each copy made out by him, is entitled
to demand and receive at the rate of twenty cents for each
hundred words.
§ 4647. The evidence of a notary public in any matter otﬁ
cially done by him, may be taken and perpetuated, without
§ 648. In all chancery causes, and proceedings in the
nature of chancery causes, the depositions of parties may be
taken by the opposite side, or by a co-party on the same
side when the latter is entitled to such evidence, upon notice
simply as in the case of other witnesses.
§ 4649. Either party to a suit at law is entitled to a discov
ery from the other party of any matters material to the issue
of such suit, in all cases where the same party would, b
the rules of equity, be entitled to a discovery in aid of such
suit.
§ 6650. To obtain such discovery, he shall present his peti
tion, veriﬁed by aﬁidavit, to the court, judge, or justice, set
ting forth the matter upon which his claim to discovery is
founded, the facts sought to be discovered, and such interrog
atories in relation thereto as he may think necessary to ex
hibit in order to obtain a full discov'ery.
§ 4651. This petition, in all cases pending in courts of
record, should be presented at least ﬁve days before the trial
term, or a suﬂicient excuse given, by aﬁidavit, for not thus
presentin it.
§ 4652. he court, judge, or justice, may, upon such peti
tion, grant an order requiring the party from whom such dis
covery is sought, to answer the petition and interrogatories,
or such of them as it may appear to the court or oﬁicer ought
to he answered, or show cause why they should not be an
swered.
§ 4653. The order shall prescribe the time within which the
petition and interrogatories should be answered, or cause
shown against the rule; and the trial of the cause will be
stayed until the order is complied with, or vacated.
§ 4654. The petition and order will be ﬁled with the other
papers in the cause, and a copy served upon the party from
whom discovery is sought, or his counsel, and suc proceed
ings may be had as are bad by a court of equity upon a bill
of discovery in aid of a suit at law.
§ 4655. The answer to the petition and interrogatories may
be sworn to before the same oﬁicers, and in the same way, as
answers in chancery to bills of discovery.
§ 4656. The answer of the party to the petition and inter
rogatories, is evidence on the trial of the suit, in the same
mapner, and with the like effect, as an answer to a bill in
equity for discovery.
§ 4657. If the answer is not ﬁled in the time prescribed, or
if it is not full, or is evasive, unless further time is given, the
party ﬁling the petition is entitled to take the same for con
fessed, or to proceed by process of contempt to enforce a full
and satisfactory answer, as in the court of chancery.
on.
§ 4658. If the etition is taken for confessed, the facts
stated in the petition may be given in evidence as admitted
by the person from whom the discovery is sought.
§ 4659. Any lost instrument may be supplied by aﬂidavit of
any person acquainted with the facts, stating the contents
thereof, as near as may be, and that such instrument has been
unintentionally lost or mislaid, and is still the property of the
person claiming under it, unpaid and unsatisﬁed.
§ 4660. So also, if such instrument is wrongfullyin the pos
session of the opposite party, who fails to produce it upon
notice, its place may be supplied by the afﬁdavit of any per
son acquainted wit the facts, statin the contents as near as
may be, the wrongful possession of t e opposite party, notice
to produce, and that such instrument is the property of the
person claiming under it, unpaid and unsatisﬁed.
§ 4661. If the instrument is one which the law requires
should be denied under oath, the afﬁdavit produced before or
at the trial, will be sufﬁcient to establish the claimant’s right,
whether he is plaintiff or defendant; and if denied under
oath, or otherwise legally put in issue, may be established by
competent evidence of its contents.
§ 4662. The court of justice before whom the action is tried,
may, in case recovery is had upon a lost instrument, require
the party claiming under it to give bond with good security,
in double the amount of the claim, payable to the opposite
party, and conditioned to indemnify such party against an
demand by action on such lost instrument; and execution shail
he stayed until such bond is given.
§ 4663. The person recovering on such lost instrument may,
however, after the lapse of two years from the maturity of
such instrument, enforce his recovery without giving the
bond prescribed in the last section; in which case the person
from whom the recovery is bad may plead the judgment in
bar of an action by the actual holder of such lost instrument.
§ 4664. If the actual holder of such lost instrument brings
his action thereon after the recovery had as aforesaid, the
true owner may intervene and defend the action.
§ 4665. The existence of a lost note a ainst a. dead person’s
estate shall not be established by the a davit of the holder of
the note unless corroborated by other evidence.
§ 4666. Any record, proceeding, or paper ﬁled, in an action
either at law or equity, if lost or mislaid unintentionally, or
fraudulently made away with, may be supplied, upon appli
cation, under the orders of the court, by the best evidence the
nature of the case will admit of.
§ 4667. If the lost papers consist of depositions, the court
may, in its discretion, order the testimony to be retaken, if
the witnesses are alive.
§ 4668. A judge of the Supreme Court shall be thirty-ﬁve
years of age, of other courts thirty years of a e.
§ 4669. Before entering upon the duties of is oﬁice, each
judge or chancellor shall take the oath or aﬁirmation pre
scribed in sections 345, 940.
§ 4670. No judge or chancellor shall practice law, or perform
any of the functions of attorney or counsel, in any of
the courts of this State, except in cases in which he may
have been employed as counsel previous to his election.
§ 4671. No jud e or chancellor shall be competent, except
by consent of alearties, to sit in the following cases:
1. Where he is interested in the event of any cause.
2. Or connected with either party; by afﬁnity or consan
guinity, within the sixth degree, computing by the civil law.
3. Or has been of counsel in the cause.
4. Or has presided on the trial in an inferior court.
. -Or, in criminal cases for felon , where the person upon
whom, or upon whose propert t e felony has been com
mitted, is connected with him y aﬁinity or consanguinity
within the sixth degree, computing by the civil law.
§ 4672. Each judge and chancellor is required to reside in
the judicial district or division for which he is elected, and a
removal therefrom shall create a vacancy in the oﬂice.
§ 4673. The judges and chancellors, are, however, judges
and chancellors for the State at large, and as such may, upon
interchange, and upon other lawful ground, exercise the
duties of ofﬁce in any other judicial circuit or division in the
State.
§ 4674. The circuit judges may interchange with each other
one or more courts, or parts of courts, when causes exist
making an interchange necessary, or for mutual convenience;
and in the absence of the judge of an circuit, his death,
or inability to hold court, any circuit ju ge may hold court
in his stead.
§ 4675. Chancellors may also interchange with each other
and With ajudges of the circuit, criminal or other special
courts, un er the same circumstances and to the same extent.
§ 4676. And in all such cases, the judge or chancellor hold
ing court in the circuit or division of another, shall have the
same power and jurisdiction as the judge or chancellor in
whose place he is acting.
§ 4677. Criminal judges may have the right to interchange
With each other.
§ 4678. Where a judge is incompetent to try any cause pend-
ingin his circuit, and the same cannot be transferred by change
. . . . .
of venue to some other circuit, it shall be the positive duty of
the circuit judge of any adjoining circuit, upon receiving no-
tice of such incompetency by the clerk of the circuit court
where such cause or causes are pending, to interchange with
such incompetentjud e and try such cause or causes ; no
judge shall be compe led thus to interchange oftener than
once in an twelve months.
§ 4679. W hen the chancellor of any division in this State
shall by interchan e, hold the chancery court in another
chancery division, t e chancellor assigned to hold the courts
in said last mentioned chancery division, may hold any other
courts in said last mentioned chancery division at the time
ﬁxed by law, while said ﬁrst mentioned chancellor may be
engaged in holding court by interchange as aforesaid.
§ 4680, The judges of the Supreme Court, within the ﬁrst
week of each term, or as soon thereafter as the fact shall
come to their knowledge, shall certify to the Governor all
cases upon the docket in which either of them is incompetent
to sit, upon the receipt of which certiﬁcate, the Governor
shall appoint and commission the requisite number of com
petent men of law knowledge to dispose of said causes.
§ 4681. The special jud es so commissioned shall bear and
determine the causes in t e commission set forth, and all such
other causes as may be certiﬁed durin the same term, and
shall have the same power and authority in those causes as
the regular judges of the court.
§ 4682. The parties may, by consent, select some member of
the bar to preside as judge or chancellor in all civil cases,
where the regular judge or chancellor is incompetent; and
this consent, entered of record, shall vest the person selected
with the full ower and authority of the regular judge or
chancellor in the particular case.
§ 4683. \Vhen any chancellor is incompetent to try any
cause in his court, he may notify any one of the circuit
judges, whose duty it shall be, at the next term of the circuit
court of the county in which the incompetency exists, and
while holding said court, to hear and determine the cause as
chancellor, for which purpose the clerk of the chancery
court shall bring before him all the papers in the cause, and
the necessary entries shall be made on the minutes of the
chancery court, and signed by the circuit judge presiding.
§ 4684. Any circuit judge may, also, during the sittin s ofa
chancery court, upon notiﬁcation of a cause in whic the
chancellor is incompetent, as provided in the foregoing sec
tion, take the place of the chancellor on the bench, and hear
and determine the cause as chancellor, the necessary entry
being made on the minutes of the court, and signed by him.
§ 4685. As a further provision to prevent delay in cases of
incompetency, it shall be the duty of the circuit judges and
chancellors in this State, whenever there is a cause before
them, by appeal or otherwise, in either of their courts, in
which they are interested, at the request of the opposite
party, to transter such cause _to any court in an adjoining dis
trict or circuit which such adverse party may choose; and
the original papers, with a certiﬁed copy of all orders, shall
be immediately transmitted to the court to which the venue
is changed.
§ 4686. \Vhere the judge of any court of common law or
chancellor is incompetent from any cause, to try the cause,
upon application of either of the parties to said suit, the
same shall be transferred to the nearest court having juris
diction ot such cases Where like incompetency does not exist.
§ 4687. The provisions of this Code in relation to the in
competency of judges and chancellors, and to the disposition
of causes in which they are incompetent, shall equally apply
to county judges; and such judges may interchange With
each other when necessary for the dispatch of business.
§ 4688. Whena county judge is incompetent to try any
cause in his court, .he may notify any one of the circuit
judges or chancellors, who may as soon as racticable, sit in
the case instead of the county judge, and) dispose of the
same according to law; or the county judge may, in such
case, certify the cause into the circuit court of the county, or
chancery court of the district, when the same shall be dis
posed of according to law.
§ 4689. When any of the judges of the circuit or county
courts, or either of the chancellors, is unable from sickness or
other physical debility to attend and hold any of the courts
at the time and place required by law, such jud e or chan
cellor, or, in case of his inability to do so, the c erk of the
court, shall certify the facts to the Governor, who shall com
mission some person of competent law knowledge to attend
and hold said courts.
§ 4690. In case of the sickness of any one or more of the
judges of the Supreme Court, the Governor shall have the
power to commission persons learned in the law to ﬁll the
vacancy during the illness of said judge or judges.
§ 4691. The person so commissioned shall have all the power
and authority of the regular judge or chancellor in whose
place he is appointed, and shall continue to hold the courts
and exercise the duties of the ofﬁce until notiﬁed by the reg
ular oﬁicer that he is in a condition to resume his functions.
§ 4692. They shall also have the same power to interchange
with other judges and chancellors, as the regular ofﬁcers in
whose place they are commissioned to act.
§ 4693. \Vhen, by reason of incompetency, sickness, or
other cause, any inferior judge or chancellor shall be unable
to hold his courts, and a special judge shall be appointed or
elected, said special judge shall receive no compensation from
the State, unless in the recommendation or certiﬁcate of the
regular jud e or chancellor for the appointment of the special
judge or c aucellor he shall expressly authorize the said
judge or chancellor to be paid out of his regular salary, in
which event said special judge or chancellor shall receive
such ay as the regular judge or chancellor should have re
ceive for the same length of time, to be deducted out of the
salary of such re ular judge or chancellor.
§ 4694. Special judges of the Supreme Court shall, in all
cases, be allowed six dollars per day for the time employed in
the discharge-of the duties of the ofﬁce, and the like sum
for every twenty-ﬁve miles’ travel to and from the place of
holding court.
§ 4695. When, from any cause, the jud e of any court of
record in this State (except the Supreme ourt), fails to at-
tend, or if in attendance, cannot properly preside in a cause,
or causes pending in such court, or is unable to hold the
court, the attorneys of the court who are present, and are
residents of the- State, shall elect one of its number then in
attendance to hold the court for the occasion, who shall have
all the qualiﬁcations of a jud e of such court, and who shall
accordingly preside and adju icate.
1. The election shall be held by the clerk, and in case of a
tie, he shall give' the casting vote.
2. The person elected shall, during the period that he acts,
have all the powers, and be liable to all the responsibilities of
a regular jud e.
_3. If the person ﬁrst elected to act as judgepro tempore,
fails or refuses to act, or cannot properly preside, another
election shall be held in like manner, from time to time, until
a suitable person is chosen who can and will preside.
§ 696. Every special judge before entering on the duties of
his appointment, shall take an oath before the clerk of the
court to support the Constitution of the United States and
of the State of Tennesse, and also the following oath of
oﬂice:
“I, A. 13., solemnly swear, that I will administer justice
without' res ect to persons, and do e ual rights to the poor
and the ricli, and that I will faithfully and impartially dis
charge all the duties incumbent upon me as a judge, accord
ing to the best of my abilities.”
§ 4697. In the election of a special judge to try a particular
case, the counsel concerned in the case, shall not vote.
§ 4698. The Governor shall appoint a temporary judge,
chancellor or attorney-general 1n all cases where a contest
shall arise in the election of any of said ofﬁcers, and they
shall hold said ofﬁces and have allthe powers and jurisdiction
pertaining thereto, until the contest is judicially determined
and the regularly elected ofﬁcers duly qualiﬁed and commis
sioned; and they are clothed with the same power and shall
receive the same compensation as is allowed said ofﬁcers in
other cases, to be paid out of the State treasury upon a war
rant of the Comptroller.
§ 4699. The judges of the Supreme Court shall give written
opinions, stating the points of law on which the action of the
court is based, in all cases determined by them, except actions
in which there is no defense.
§ 4700. If the judgment of the inferior courtis reversed and
the cause remanded, the judges shall ﬁle in writin , with the
clerk, the reasons of reversal, and the points of Iaw in the
judgment of the inferior court in which the error existed, to
be copied by the clerk and certiﬁed to the inferior court as
part of the record of reversal.
§ 4701. The Supreme Court in term, or either of the judges
in vacation, may grant writs of supersmlms to an interlocu
tory order or decree, or execution issued thereon, as in case
of ﬁnal decrees, and may require the party applying to give
bond with good security, payable to the opposite party, con
ditioned to pay the amount of the interlocutory order or de
cree if so required upon ﬁnal hearing, and, further, to pay
all such costs and damages as the opposite party may sustain
§ 4702. The clerk of the Supreme Court, upon issuing
supersedeas in such case, shall transmit to the chancery
court a copy of the petition and supersu/cas, to be ﬁled in the
cause, and to constitute a part of the record.
§ 4703. The chancellors of this State, or a majority of them,
may make such rules as they may deem beneﬁcial and proper
to regulate the practice of the chancery courts, not incon
sistent with the rovisions of this Code; and the rules thus
agreed upon shal be obligatory on all the chancery courts.
§ 4704. In the absence of any such action by the chancel
lors as a body, each chancellor may make rules and regula
tions of practice for the purpose of expediting business in his
own chancery division.
§ 4705. Every judge and chancellor is required to hold the
terms of his courts at the regular times appointed by law, un
less prevented by sickness of himself or family, or by some
other unavoidable necessity.
§ 4706. Before he can draw any portion of his salary, each
judge and chancellor shall certify that he has held his courts
re ularly since the last payment, or that he was prevented by
sic 'ness or other necessity, as the case may be.
§ 4707. Anyjudge or chancellor who fails to open his court
within the ﬁrst three days of each regular term without suf
ﬁcient excuse, shall have one hundred dollars of his salary
deducted for the failure. 
§ 4708. The judge or judges, and chancellor of any court,
may appoint a special term of court whenever it is necessary
for the dispatch of business.
§ 4709. The special term may be a pointed, either at the
regular term by entry of record to tiat eﬁect, designating
the time, or, in vacation, by publication in some newspaper
in the circuit or division, and giving notice in writing to the
clerk of such court, at least thirty days before the commence
ment of the special term.
§ 4710. It shall be the duty of sheriffs, clerks, attorneys and
suitors, and of all other persons concerned, to attend such
special terms in the same manner as the regular terms.
§ 4711. The circuit judge in a pointing a special term shall,
at the same time, make an or er in writing, certiﬁed by the
clerk, appointin three justices of the county in which the
court is to be he d, to make out a list of twenty-ﬁve jurors for
such special term.
§ 4712. The justices appointed shall, within ten days after
notice, make out the list of jurors, and deliver the same to
the sheriff, who shall summons them Without delay to attend
at such special term, in the same manner as if summoned to
a regular term.
§ 4713. The judges and chancellors shall have and exermse
the same powers at such special terms, and all the business of
the court, of every nature and kind, shall be conducted as at
the regular term. 
le and concurrent jurisdiction to grant injunctions, attach- 33AM" p'°'
ments, and all other extraordinary process, issuable out of, and (39“)
returnable to any of the circuit or chancery courts of this
State. '
§ 4715. Upon making the re uisite ﬂats for, and granting Tobesealed up
such extraordinary rocess, it s all be the duty of the judge, $2.23?“
or chancellor to enc ose the papers accompanying the appli- (3°47)
cation and the order made, in a sealed envelope, directed to Opened on], by
the clerk of the court to which the ﬁat is directed, which en- cle"
velope shall be 0 ened only by the clerk or his deputy.
§ 4716. The judges of the circuit courts and chancellors £535,501“!
may also concurrentlya point receivers in vacation, whenever (394's)
necessary in the procee ings of either the circuit or chancery
courts, and the clerks of said courts, when required by the
ﬁat, shall take bond with good security, from the receiver
or applicant, as the case may be, for the faithful discharge of
the duties of receiver. -
§ 4717. The several judges and chancellors of this State are my "hm"
authorized to solemnize the rites of matrimony. 
§ 718. The Attorney General for the State shall be under gmll'ftlfg” “‘1
the disabilities, restrictions, and disqualiﬁcations of the at- (8956)
torney general of the circuits, and shall be subject to be pro
ceeded against for misdemeanors in ofﬁce, in the same manner
that the 'udges of the courts are roceeded against.
§ 4719. t is a misdemeanor in o ce for the attorney general 1131?“er '0
to take or receive a fee for defending any supposed offender dzfgnﬁnil)m
in the inferior courts. (39“)
b 4720. It shall be the duty of the Attorney General for the Du‘l‘gém)
‘tate— _ .
1. To attend to all business of the State, both civil and
criminal, in the Supreme Court.
2. To give to the Governor, Secretary of State, Treasurer,
and Comptroller, when called on, any legal advice required
in the discharge of their ofﬁcial duties.
3. To examine and certify all bills of cost in the Supreme
Court, in which the State is concerned, before they are ordered
to be paid by the State. 
. To report the decisions of the Supreme Court, under the
rules and regulations provided by law.
5. To attend to all the business connected with the man
agement of the treasury of the State, or debts due and owing
to the State, or debts or liabilities claimed against the treas
ury of the State, or suits brought against the Comptroller of
the Treasury before any court in the State where such litiga
tion may be pending. -
6. To give to the Comptroller of the Treasury and the
Treasurer, when called on, written legal opinions on all mat
ters submitted by them in the discharge of their ofﬁcial duties.
7. To attend to any other legal duty which the Comptroller
of the treasury and the Treasurer may require of them, con
nected with the treasury.
8. To keep his ofﬁce at the capitol at Nashville, and the
superintendent of the capitol shall furnish him with the nec
essary room. I
§ 4721, He shall attend in person and prosecute or defend,
. . . . . .
as the case may be, any and all suits, ClVll or criminal, 1n the
Supreme Court of the United States, or in any circuit or dis
trict courts of the United States held in the State of Tennes
see, in which suit or suits the State may be a party, or in
which the State has or may have interests of a pecuniary na
ture.
§ 4722. His necessary personal expenses incurred in the
performance of the duties _aforesaid,_and also the necessary
expenses 1ncurred for printing briefs and transcripts of
records for use in such suits as are required by law or by
rule of court wherein the suit or suits may be pending, shall
be paid by the State, upon audit and allowance of the Comp
troller and Treasurer of the State, upon presentation of an
itemized account of the same, certiﬁed by himself to be cor
rect.
§ 4723. In all cases where the interest of the State requires
(in the judgment of the Governor and Attorney General of
the State) additional counsel to the Attorney General of the
State, or district Attorney, the Governor shall employ such
counsel, who shall be paid as provided by law.
§ 4724. The salary of the Attorney General and Reporter of
the State of Tennessee shall be three thousand dollars ($3,
§ 000) per annum, payable quarterly, in the same manner that
the Supreme Judges of the State are now paid, which shall
be in full for all his services as such Attorney General and
Reporter, and he shall receive from the State no further pay,
emolument or perquisite, unless the same shall be especially
provided by law.
§ 4725. It shall be his duty to report any written opinion of
the Supreme Court that may be pronounced by the court, or
anyjud e thereof, in which any other points of law are de
cided, tian such as are settled in some previously reported
decisions, and all the opinions the court may direct him to
report.
§ 4726. He shall in the report of each case, give the name
of the judge or chancellor who made the decision in the
court below, and the time and place of said decision; also,
the name of the judge pronouncing the same in the Supreme
Court, after the same manner as the opinions are now
arranged and prepared. He shall also state the position
assumed by counsel in argument on the points passed
upon by the Supreme Court, and the authorities cited and
relied on, but no more. He shall also make a brief synopsis
of the statement of facts, if the same is not sufﬁciently stated
in the body of the opinion. ‘
§ 4727. He shall have the right to select his own printer,
and shall have the exclusive control of the publication and
binding of his reports; after ﬁve years from the publication
of each report the copyright of the same shall revert to the
State of Tennessee.
§ 4728. He shall have rinted and bound, at the expense of
the State, only six hundied copies of his reports, to be paid
for upon the warrant of the Comptroller, which shall be
furnished at cost, but not to exceed one dollar and ninety-six
cents.
§ 4729. The clerks of the Supreme Court shall have the
opinions of the Supreme Court enrolled within ten days after
their delivery by the court, and shall then deliver to the
Attorney-General and Reporter the original opinion for publié
catiou, and said reports shall be published within sixty days
from the time suﬁicient material is furnished the reporter to
complete a volume.
§ 4730. He shall not sell the reports to the attorneys of this
State for a sum exceeding three dollars, and each volume
shall contain not less than eight hundred pages.
§ 4731. The Comptroller shall furnish each judge and chancellor
in the State, and each circuit, chancery, criminal and
common law court in the State with a copy of each volume
‘ of said reports gratis, and he shall, in like manner, deposit
with the Secretary of the State, twenty-ﬁve copies of each
volume, to remain in his oﬁice subject to the direction of the
General Assembly, and also a sufﬁcient number of co ies to
exchange with the department and libraries of the nited
States, and with the several States and territories, and the
Secretary of State shall immediately distribute the same, at
the expense of the State
§ 4732. It shall be the duty of each district attorney—
_ 1. To attend the circuit courts in his district, and every
other court therein having criminal jurisdiction, and prose
cute on behalf of the State in every case in which the State
is a party, or in any wise interested.
2. To have an indictment against any person in court by
warrant already prepared, on the second day of the court,
and forthwith send it before the grand jury, together with
the witnesses, that the same may be, on said second day,
found a true bill or ignored, at as little cost as possible.
3. To dismiss all witnesses, it the bill is ignored; and if
found to be true, then to dismiss all witnesses that live within
ten miles of the seat of justice till State’s day.
4. To send indictments, e1: oﬁicio, in the cases prescribed in section 5925.
5. To advise the clerk of the circuit and criminal court in
and superintend, the making out of a full and perfect caption,
to be preﬁxed to the proceedin s of said courts in criminal
cases, at each term, on the ﬁrst ay of the same.
6. To give an opinion, without charge, whenever called
upon by any county oﬁicer in his district, upon any question
of law relating to the duties of his ofﬁce.
7. To call u on the clerk of the county, circuit, chancery,
and Supreme Court, on the second day of every term, for his
execution docket, to ascertain whether any execution placed
in the hands of the sheriff has not been returned, and if not,
to move for jud ment against Such sheriﬁ' and his sureties,
in favor of the gtate, or county, or any other party, for such
sums as appear from the docket to be due the State, or county,
or school fund, or other party, upon such execution.
8. To institute suits for the recovery of escheated property.
9. To move the circuit court for jud ment against any
justice of the peace or sheriﬁ', of whose fai ore to pay moneys
collected under the small oﬁense law into the county treasury,
he is notiﬁed by the trustee.
10. To call upon the clerk of the county court, and demand
and receive from him his ori 'nal revenue bond, and forward
the same to_ the Comptro er, upon notiﬁcation from the
Comptroller that said clerk has not forwarded said bond to
him, within ten days after its date.
11. To notify said clerk, if said bond has not been executed
and recorded, that, on a given day, he will move the court to
cause said bond to be executed. '
12, To prosecute all motions against delinquent collectors
of public taxes, when made, or ordered to be made, by the
Comptroller or count trustee, without any charge therefor.
13. To make to the Comptroller, on the ﬁrst of day of
Au ust, every year, a detailed statement of all claims placed in
his ands for collection.
14. To move against any collector of taxes for judgment
for double the amount of taxes collected from any taxpayer,
for whose taxes he has received a credit, by representing him
to have become insolvent, or to have removed from the
county.
15 To call on every clerk in his district, at the ﬁrst court
after the ﬁrst day of November, every year, for his receipts
for the public moneys by him collected; and for the Comp
troller’s receipt for the clerk’s statement of moneys by him
collected.
16. To prosecute any person reported to him by the clerk
of the county court, for a breach of the revenue laws in re
lation to licenses, except hawkers, peddlers and exhibitors of
shows. .
17. To inquire into the unlawful conversion, use, invest
ment or lending, by the clerk of any court, of any money,
property or effects belonging to any party, witness, oﬁicer or
other person in any suit pending in any court; and to prose
cute said clerk without a prosecutor.
18. To prosecute suit, in the name of the State of Tennes
see, against the agent of any foreign bank, for transacting
banking business in this State without license.
19. rlo attend to all suits brought by overseers of roads,
when the same are brought into the circuit or criminal courts,
by ccrtiorari, appeal or otherwise.
20. To report to the Comptroller and Treasurer the es
cheated property belonging to the State in his district, in order
that the same may be appropriated to the use of the common
schools.
§ 4733. If the attorney-general for a district fails to attend
any term of the circuit court, or is disqualiﬁed from acting,
or if there is a vacancy in the ofﬁce, the court shall appoint
some other attorney to supply his place.
§ 4734. The acts of such attorney-general pro tem. shall be
as valid as if done by the regular oﬂlcer, and he shall be entitled to the same fees, privile es and emoluments.
§ 4735. The compensation 0 the attorney-general consists
exclusively in the fees of oﬂice.
§ 4736. No person shall practice as an attorney or counsel
in any of the courts of this State without a license, obtained
for that purpose, and without ﬁrst having taken an oath, in
open court, to support the constitution of the State, and of
the United States, and to truly and honestly demean himself
in the practice of his professmn to the best of his skill and
abilities.
§ 4737. Any one over the age of twenty-one years, and of
good standing, shall be entitled to practice law as an attor
ney, or act as counsel for any person or persons in all causes
arising or coming before any justice of the peace in this State,
and before the county court of his county.
§ 4738. Before any person shall avail himself of the privi
lege as granted herein, he shall be re uired to take an oath
to support the constitution of the lnited States and the
State of Tennessee, and be true, to his client, before the
county court clerk of the county in which such person lives;
and to'pay said clerk, as a license, the sum of ﬁve dollars,
to go to the use of the common school fund of the State.
§ 4739. It shall be the duty of the clerk of said county to
indorse upon the license of said person applying for the same
that he really believes the said applicant is a person of good
standing, or character, in the country, and is entitled to the
license; for which certiﬁcate and services rendered by the
clerk, he shall be entitled to a fee of twenty-ﬁve cents, to be
_ paid by said applicant.
§ 4740. The applicant for a license to practice law in the
courts of this State, shall produce the certiﬁcate of the county
court of the county where he has usually resided, that he has
attained the age of twenty-one years, and is a man of good
reputation.
§ 4741. Any two judges or chancellors of this State may
examine the applicant touching his legal acquirements, and
if satisﬁed of his qualiﬁcation, and that he is of good char
acter, shall grant him alicense to practice law in the different
courts of the State. '
§ 4742. The faculty of the law department of any law
school in this State,; shall have the same power to grant
license to practice law in the courts of this State, that the
judges of the courts now have.
§ 4743. Persons of other States may be licensed in like man
ner, upon examination, and satisfactory evidence to the
judges of age and moral character. If already licensed in
another State, they may be permitted to practice upon pro
ducing such license, and satisfactory evidence of good char
acter.
§ 744.“ Judges and chancellors are prohibited from practic-
ing law in any of the courts of this State. The clerks of the
several- courts, and their deputies, are also prohibited from
practicing in their own courts, or in any causes commenced,
rought to, or carried from their courts, or commenced in any
court from which an appeal lies to their court. Sheriff s and
other executive ofﬁcers shall not practice law in the county
for which they were elected, or in any cause originating or
pending in the courts of that county.
§ 4745. The several courts of this State may strike from
their rolls any person not authorized to practice in such
courts, and also any practicing attorney or counsel, upon
evidence satisfactory to the court that he. has been guilty of
such misdemeanor, or acts of immorality or impropriety, as
are inconsistent with the character, or incompatible with the
faithful discharge, of the duties of his profession.
§ 4746. If chargesare preferred agaist an attorney or coun-
'sel to any court, they shall be reduced to writing, and a copy
furnished the party accused, who may appear, and show
cause against the charges.
§ 4747. The person stricken from the rolls under either of
the foregoing sections, or for other good cause, shall not be
permitted to practice the profession in any court of record
in this State. He may, however, appeal from the decision of
the inferior court to the Supreme Court, as in other cases.
§ 4748. No attorney or counsel shall be permitted, in giving
testimony against. a client, or person who consulted him pro-
fessionally, to disclose any communication made to him as
attorney by such person, during the pendency of the suit,
before or afterwards, to his injury.
t of having transferred his interest in real estate, or obliations
for the erformance of contracts, or notes for money,
uring the pen ency of any suit at law, be permitted to give
testimony in favor of those who held a joint interest with
him at the commencement of said suits, or by which he would
be released from any liability to perform contracts or pay
money.
§ 4750. Any attorney offering to give testimony in any of
the cases provided for in the two preceding sections, shall be
'ected by the court, and is uilty of a misdemeanor, for
re
W
ich, on conviction, he shall e ﬁned not exceeding one
thousapd dollars, to be assessed by the jury, and imprisoned
not exceeding two years, and if a practicing attorney, shall
also be stricken from the rolls.
§ 4751. Any lawyer collecting or receiving money_in his pro
fessional capacity, by suit, or otherWIse, and faillng to pay
the same to the party entitled on demand, may be moved
against by the party aggrieved, as prescribed in §§ 4360—3.
§ 4752. If the execution issued upon the judgment re
covered by motion, is returned unsatisﬁed as to any part of
the principal or costs, it shall be the duty of the court to
strike the name of such delinquent lawyer from the list of
attorneys; and he shall be disqualiﬁed from practicing in any
court in this State until the judgment and costs are paid.
§ 4753. An attorney and counsel has power to execute, in
the name of his client, all bonds or other papers necessary
. . .
and proper for the prosecutlon of the suit at any stage of 1ts
progress. _
§ 4754. Any person may conduct and manage his own case
in any court of this State. ‘
§ 4755. At the return term of the process, the court shall
appoint counsel for the plaintiﬁ', in actions prosecuted in the
manner prescribed for panpers; and also for the defendant,
if he make oath that, owing to his poverty, he cannot em
ploy counsel.
§ 4756. The county court of each county shall, at its guar
terly session, held next preceding each term of the circuit
court, appoint twenty-ﬁve good and lawful men, to serve as
jurymen at the next succeeding court; no person shall be
summoned or serve on the venire who has served on a venire
for a period of two years preceding.
§ 4757. If, in the opinion of the court, the interests of the
county require it, thirty-seven men may be thus designated,
instead of twenty-ﬁve.
§ 4758. Should the duty be omitted at the ﬁrst session of
the county court as prescribed, it may be performed at any
subsequent session.
§ 4759. The county court shall, at the same time, designate
two constables of the county to wait upon the court and
jurors at the next succeeding term of the circuit court. ,
§ 4760. One of the jurors thus designated shall reside in
each civil district into which the county is divided, and where
the number of districts and the number of jurors do not 00-
ineide, the selection should be made with as much equality
as practicable.
§ 4761. The justices from each district may designate the
juryman from that district, if present; otherwise, the other
members of the court shall make the appointment.
§ 4762. N0 mistake or omission, however, in complying
with the above rovisions in regard to the residence of the
jurors desi nate , shall amount to a disqualiﬁcation.
§ 4763. o court shall appoint any (person to serve as a
juror more than one time in each perio of two years, either
on the original panel or to ﬁll a vacancy therein; nor any
person who has an action pending in the court at the term
to which he is nominated.
§ 4764. And should any juror in violation of the above
. . . . .
prOVisions be appomted, the court shall discharge him, and
appoint a juror in his stead, free from exception.
§ 4765. In making the selection, moreover, such persons
only as they know, or have good reason to believe, possess
the qualiﬁcations speciﬁed in this chapter, and are esteemed
in the community for their integrity, fair character and sound
judgment, shall be selected.
§ 4766. A list of the jurors designated shall be made out by
the clerk and delivered to the sheriff, who shall summon the
persons designated to serve as jurors at the court, at least
ﬁve days before the sitting of the court, by personal service,
or by leaving a note or summons in writing at the dwelling
house of the juror.
§ 4767. Every personthus appointed and summoned, who
fails to appear acccording to summons, shall forfeit and pay
twenty-ﬁve dollars, to be adjudged by the court to which he
is summoned. .
§ 4768. If the county court fail to nominate, or the persons
nominated fail to attend, the court shall designate other good
and lawful men, and direct the sheriff to summon them as
jurors, and the persons so summoned shall act as such.
§ 769. Persons summoned in this way, may be discharged
from day to day, and others daily summoned, if necessary, or
may be retained for the term, at the discretion of the court.
.4770. Every person so summoned, who fails to appear and
serve, may be ﬁned at the discretion of the court, not exceed
ing twenty-ﬁve dollars, and compelled to pay the ﬁne by ex
ecution issued instanter, unless he can show sufﬁcient cause,
to be approved of by the court.
§ 4771. Jurors required to try issues of fact in the chancery
court, or other courts of the State not supplied with regular
jurors, may be summoned instanter, by the order of the court,
as in § 4768.
§ 4772. So, also, where special juries are allowed by law,
the sheriff shall summon the jurors instanter from the body
of the county, in the manner prescribed in § 4768.
The 'udge shall name the special jurors to be summoned. 2 Lea, 726; 3
Bax., 3 3; Q4005. -
§ 4773. The attendance of such jurors is enforced, and any
neglect or refusal punished, in the same way as in the case of
regular jurors.
§ 4774. The sheriﬁ', summonin jurors under_the foregoing
provisions, when the selection evolves upon him, shall be
overned by the rules hereinbefore prescribed for the regula
ation of the county court in selecting jurors.
§ 4775. A wilful neglect on the part of the sheriff of these
rules, and knowingly selecting incompetent or exceptionable
jurors, is a contempt of court, and punishable accordingly.
§ 4776. Any person summoned as a juror who fails to attend
by reason of sickness or accident, or other cause, may make
§ 1118 excuse at the next succeedin term, on sci-refacias made
known, and, if the excuse is su cient, the ﬁne shall be re-
mitted, and the costs paid out of other ﬁnes and forfeitures
arising in the court.
§ 4777. Every male citizen, who is a freeholder, or house
holder, and twenty-one years of age, is legally qualiﬁed to
act as a grand or petit juror, if not otherwise incompetent
under the express provisions of this Code.
§ 4778. No person can act as a juror in any case in which
he is interested, or when either of the parties is connected
with him by aﬂinity or consanguinity, within the sixth de
gree, computing by the civil law, except by consent of all the
parties.
§ 4779. Persons convicted of certain infamous offenses,
specially designated in the Code, persons of unsound mind,
persons not in the full possession of the senses of hearing
and seeing, and habitual drunkards, are incompetent to act
as jurors.
§ 4780. The following persons are exempt from liability to
act as jurors: All persons holding ofﬁce under the laws of
the United States, or of this State; all practicing attorneys,
physicians, and cler ymen; all acting professors or teachers
ofany college, schoo , or institution of learning; all road com
missioners and overseers ; all members of ﬁre companies; all
persons over sixty-ﬁve years of age, disabled by bodily in
ﬁrmity, or specially exempted by any other positive law.
§ 4781. Any person may be excused from serving as a juror,
when the state of his own health, or that of his family, re
quires his absence, or when, for any reason, his own interests,
or those of the public, will, in the opinion of the court, be
materially injured by his attendance.
§ 4782. The court may dischar e a grand or petit juror from
service, who does not possess t e requisite qualiﬁcations, or
who is exempt or disqualiﬁed from such service, or fer any
other reasonable or proper cause, to be judged of by the
court.
§ 4783. Service of process on any juror, during his attend
ance on, going to, and returnin from the court to which he
is summoned, is void, and the efeudant may, on motion, be
discharged.
§ 784. Either party to an action may challenge for cause
any person presented as a petit juror, in either a civil or
criminal proceeding, who is incompetent to act as ajuror
under the provisions of the foregoing article.
§ 4785. Or any person who has a suit then pending for trial
at the same 'term of the court, or who has an adverse interest
in a similar suit involving like questions of fact or with the
same parties; and any person who has served as a juror for
one term within the two years next preceding.
§ 4786. Or any person who, at the time he is presented, is
drunk or has been drunk during the term of the court then
sitting or is an habitual drunkard. The court shall inquire as
to the existence of either, or all of said causes of challen e,
by the oath of the party or by such other testimony as t e
court in its discretion may desire to hear.
§ 4787. The defendant in a criminal case may, also, chal
lenge any person who has applied to the sheriff to be one of
the guard to take the prisoner to the penitentiary in the event
of conviction.
§ 788. Either party to a civil action, tried in the courts of
this State, may challenge two jurors without assigning any
cause. -
§ 4789. In the trial of all prosecutions for crime under the
grade of petit larceny, the State and the defendant may each
challenge, peremptorily, ﬁve jurors without assigning any
cause.
§ 4790. In the trial of criminal prosecutions above the grade
of petit larceny, the State is entitled to six peremptory chal
lenges, and the defendant, if the charge is a felony punish
able with death, to twenty-four challenges; and when there
are more defendants than one on trial for an offense of the
grade aforesaid, the State shall be entitled to six peremptory
hallenges for each defendant on trial, and each defendant to
twenty-four; and in all other cases, the State to four for each
defendant, and each defendant to ten challenges.
§ 4791. To form the grand jury, the court shall direct the
names of the jurors in attendance to be written on scrolls,
and placed in a box or other suitable receptacle, and drawn
out by a child under ten years of age; and the thirteen jurors
whose names are ﬁrst drawn shall be a grand jury for the
term.
§ 4792. Whenever a sufﬁcient number of the jurors of the
original panel fail to attend before the grand jury is formed,
the court may empanel the grand jury of so many of the
original panel as may attend, and the rest of bystanders.
§ 4793. And if none of the original panel attend, or no ju
rors have been appointed, the grand jury may consist entirely
of bystanders.
§ 4794. In either case, the jurors composing the grand jury
shall attend the court until discharged by the judge, or the
term expires.
§ 4795. When any grand jurors empaneled in the mode
pointed out, become unable from any cause, to serve out the
term, or may be excused on any ground, the court ma sup
ply the vacancy from the original panel, if any, an from
bystanders if none.
§ 4796. The court appoints the foreman of the grand jury,
and if he is discharged, or excused after the jury is sworn,
his place may be supplied by the court.
§ 4797. The following oath shall be administered to the
foreman of the grand jury:
“You, as foreman of the grand jury, do solemnly swear
(or afﬁrm) that you will diligently inquire, and true present
ment make, of all oﬁenses given you in char e, or otherwise
brought to your knowledge, committed or triable within this
county; that you will keep secret the States’ counsel, your
fellows, and your own; that you will present no person from
hatred, malice or ill-will, nor leave any unpresented through
fear, favor or affection, or for any reward, or the promise or
hope thereof, but that you will present the truth, the whole
truth, and nothin but the truth, according to the best of
your skill and un erstanding: so help you God.”
§ 4798. The following oath shall thereupon be admin
istered to the other grand jurors present:
“ The same oath which your foreman has now taken before
you on his part, you and each of you shall well and truly ob
serve and keep on your part, so help you God.”
§ 4799. The judge presiding at any special term of the
court, may, if he deems it necessary, empanel a grand jury,
in the same way and of like powers, as at a regular term.
§ 4800. The court may dismiss the grand jury whenever
they have ﬁnished all the business before them, and, in his
opinion, performed their duty as a public inquest.
§ 4801. The grand jury may act as petit jurors in either
civil or. criminal cases, when not engaged in the business
more particularly devolving upon them.
§ 4802. Either party in a civil action may require the jury to
be selected by ballot, in which case the clerk shall write the
names of all the jurors not otherwise occupied, on scrolls or
pieces of pa er, and place them in a box or other suitable re
ceptacle, an a child under ten years of age, or some person
agreed upon, shall, in open court, draw out the names, one
by one, until the jury is made up.
§ 4803. If the scrolls are exhausted before the jury is com
pleted, the court may order such additional number of jurors
to be summoned, as may be thought just and proper, whose
names shall, in like manner, he rawn until the full jury is
obtained.
§ 4804. Should a juror, either in a civil or criminal action,
during the progress of a trial become so unwell that, in the
opinion of the court, he is unable to serve, he may be dis
charged, and another juror summoned instanter, empaneled
and the trial recommenced.
§ 4805. On motion of either garty, in any civil action, a
special jury may be ordered an summoned, if, in the opin
ion of the court, it is proper, the additional cost to be taxed
to the losin party.
§ 4806. ' hen, by reason of challenges, or any other cause,
it is rendered necessary, the court may cause petit jurors to
be summoned from the bystanders, or the county at large,
either to supply the deﬁciency in juries, or to form one or
more entire juries, as the occasion requires.
§ 4807. Every regular juror is entitled to receive one dollar
and ﬁfty cents for each day’s attendance, and to be allowed
all ferriages and tolls necessarily incurred in going to and re
turning from court, to be paid out of the count treasury.
§ 4808. For boardin each jury, persons sha l be allowed
not more than ﬁfteen dollars per day, Within the discretion of
the court.
§ 4809. Tales jurors receive no compensation unless they
serve more than one day, in which case they receive the same
pay for each day’s service as the regular jurors.
Where talesman remained undischarged for ten days, but did not sit at any time
flor two days consecutively, he was he d entitled to compensation for the ten
ays.
§ 4810. The grand and traverse jurors, and talcsmen, de
tained over night, are allowed one dollar and ﬁfty cents per
day for their services.
§ 4811. Jurors prove under oath, at the term of the court at
which they serve, and before the clerk of said court, the fer
riages or tolls necessarily incurred in going to or returning
from their place of residence to the court-house.
§ 4812. The clerk of the court shall, when the jury is dis
char ed, make out and certify a list of the jury, with the
number of days they have respectively served, and the
amount due to each, and deliver the same to the clerk of the
county court, who shall record it in the revenue docket, and
the judge or chairman of the county court shall issue sepa
rate warrants to the jurors for the amount due to each of
them.
§ 4813. These warrants shall be received by the sheriff in
the payment of the county tax, unless the tax laid is insuﬂi
cient to pay all the jurors’ certiﬁcates, in which case the war
rants shall be ﬁled with the county trustee, and shall be paid
in the order in which they are ﬁled.
§ 4814. The clerk of each of the several courts of this
State shall reside in the county wherein the court is held,
shall keep his ofﬁce at the county seat of said county, and
give due attendance at ofﬁce for the performance of ofﬁcial
uties. .
§ 4815. He cannot practice law in any of the courts of this
State, except as provided in § 4744; neither can he become
security for the prosecution of suits in his court, nor upon
any bonds, or other obligations, required to be executed by
the parties in the progress of such suits.
§ 4816. It _is the duty of the clerk of each of the several
courts of this State—
1. To sign all summons, writs, subpoenas, executions, and
process issued from his court, and to endorse on the back
thereof the date of issuance.
2. To keep the several dockets required by law in the re-
spective courts.
The law does not require the clerk to keep a docket for magistrates' warrants.
7 Bax., 328.
It is proper to make out three trial dockets—one for the court, one for the
bar and one for the clerk—and the clerk is entitled to ten cents for entering each
cause on each docket. 4 Bax., 311; 2 Leg. Rep., 17. But he is only entitled to
this fee one term. lb.
3. To keep an execution docket, in which shall be entered,
within the time after the adjournment of each court pre
scribed for issuing executions, all judgments or decrees, in
the order of their rendition, with the names of all the plain
tiﬁs and defendants in full; the day and year of rendition;
the amount of the recovery, and the amount of costs; the
character and number of the execution ; the date of its issu
ance, and to what county issued; the person to whom de
livered, and the date of delivery; the date and substance of
the return; and the dates and amounts of money paid into
and paid out of his oﬁice.

. To keep a well-bound book, in which shall be entered
the minutes of each day’s roceedings during the session of
the court, in the order in w ich they are made.
5. To record in well-bound books, within six months after
the ﬁnal determination of any suit or prosecution, such pro
ceedin s as he is re uired b law to enroll.
6. 0 make and eep in exes, direct and reversed, for all
books and dockets required to be kept by him.
7. To keep all the pa ers, books, dockets and records be
longing to his ofﬁce, wit care and security; the tpapers ﬁled,
arranged, numbered and labelled, so as to be 0 easy refer
ence; and the books, dockets, and records properly lettered ;
and to allow parties to inspect the records free of char e.
8. To attend court during the session thereof, with a l the
papers belonging to the term, so ﬁled as to be of easy refer
ence; to keep in the courthouse during such session, the ex
ecution docket for the two receding terms; and to admin
ister all oaths and aﬁidavits in relation to causes or proceed
ings pending therein. _
9. On application and payment of the legal fees therefor, to
make out and deliver to any person applying for the same, a
correct transcript, properly certiﬁed, of any paper or record
in his oﬂice.
10. To perform such duties in regard to the State and
county revenue, as are prescribed by law, under the pro
visions of this Code.
11. To issue execution within the time prescribed by sec
tions 3718-3722.
12. To perform such other duties as are, or may be, by law
required of him. '
§ 4817. Every clerk, register, or other public oﬁicer whose
duty it may be to keep record books, wherein the records of
any court or of any county shall be kept, shall keep an index
to each book wherein any suit, decree, judgment, sale, mort
gage, transfer, lien, deeds, power of attorney, or other record,
shall be kept, in which index such ofﬁcer shall enter in alpha
betical order, under the name of each party, every suit, judg
ment, decree, sale, deed, mortgage, or other matter of record
required by law to be by him entered in the record books
kept by such oﬂicer, to the end that any judgment, decree,
sale, conveyance, mortgage, or other record, may be found
under the name of either party to any transaction of record.
§ 4818. Any clerk, register, or other public ofﬁcer, required
_ by law to keep any record book, who shall wilfully Violate
the provisions of the above section, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor, and, on conviction, shall be ﬁned at the discre
tion of the court trying the cause, and moreover, he and his
ofﬁcial sureties shall be liable to the injured party for all
damage sustained by him, her or them, in consequence of
such a failure, to be recovered before any court of competent
jurisdiction.
§ 4819. It is the duty of the clerk of each of the several
courts, when a cause is taken by appeal in the nature of a
writ of error to the Supreme Court, to make out and transmit
by mail, to the clerk of the Supreme Court of his division, a
transcript of the record, within forty days after the entr of
the appeal, unless the entry has been made within forty ays
of the regular term of the Supreme Court or during such
term, and then forthwith, and transmit without delay to the
clerk of the Supreme Court.
§ 4820. The certiﬁcate of the postmaster of his county, that
the transcript has been deposited in the postoﬁice within the
time prescribed in the preceding section, is presumptive evi
dence of the transmission required.
§ 4821. It is the duty of each of the clerks of the several
courts, upon application of the arty entitled, his agent, or
attorney, made at the ofﬁce of the clerk, to pay and deliver
to the applicant without delay any money or property in his
hands, received by virtue of any decree, judgment, or order
of the court, or any judge thereof, or by virtue of his oﬂice.
§ 4822. A failure to com ly with the requirements of the
preceding section is a mis emeanor in ofﬁce, and, moreover,
subjects the clerk to motion against himself and his sureties.
§ 4823. It is the duty of the clerk, whenever property has
been sold by him under order of his court, or any judge
thereof, at each term to-make out and submit to the court
a report showing the property sold, the amount of the sale,
the principal an interest collected, the a gregate fund on
hand, the disbursements made, to whom and when, specifying
separately the fees allowed to the clerk and other ofﬁcers of
court. Any person interested in the report may except
thereto, as in other cases. _
§ 4824. The report and the action of the court thereon shall
be embodied in a decree to be entered on the minutes of the
court, and the clerk shall be entitled to no other fees or al
lowances than those speciﬁed and ﬁxed by the decree of the
court. The action of the court is subject to the right of ap
peal by the persons interested, as in other cases.
§ 4825. The clerks of court, in all cases where there are two
or more defendants in any case, civil or criminal, and a sub
paana for witnesses or other process issues on application of
part only of the defendants, shall mark thereon at whose in
stance issued.
§ 4826. The clerks of the several courts in this State have
authority—
1. To administer oaths and take aﬂidavits in all cases in
which the authority to administer such oath is not conﬁned
to some other ofﬁcer, and such power may be exercised either
in vacation or term time.
2. To take depositions to be read as evidence in any judi
cial proceeding in this or any other State.
3. To take probate of the attendance of witnesses, and
issue tickets, as well in vacation as term time, and in civil as
well as criminal cases, at any time between the commence
ment and decision of a cause.
4. To appoint deputies, with full power to transact all the
business of such clerk, such deputy ﬁrst taking-an oath to
sup ort the constitution and laws of this State, and faithfully
to ischarge the duties of deputy clerk of the court for which
he acts.
5. To receive the amount of any judgment or decree ren
dered in the court of which they are clerks, either before or
after the issue of execution thereon.
6. To exercise such other powers as are, or may be, con
ferred upon them by law.
§ 4827. The clerks of the several courts, in all equity causes
in their courts, are vested with the powers of clerks and
masters of the chancery courts.
§ 4828. The proceeds of real or personal property belonging
to a married woman, sold by order of any of the courts of
this State, shall not be paid out by the clerk or any commis
sioner, except as provided in sections 4050, 4051.
§ 4829. The roceeds of the real or personal property of an
infant can on y be paid to a guardian who has given bond
with good security, as such, to the satisfaction of the court.
§ 4830. If the infant is also a feme covert, the funds can only
be paid out upon the order of the court directing how and to
whom the same shall be paid.
§ 4831. So, also, if the person entitled' to the proceeds of
either realty or personalty, sold by order of the court, is of un
sound mind, the funds can only be paid to a guardian or com
mittee duly appointed, who has given bond and security,
according to law, satisfactory to the court making the sale,
§ 4832. Any court in this State may in term time, and as
often as the public interest requires, direct the attorney-gen- ined
eral of the district to examine the ofﬁce, books, records and
papers of the clerk, and report their condition and the man
ner in which the clerk discharges his ofﬁcial duties in rela
tion thereto.
§ 4833. Upon such order made, the attorne -general shall,
during the vacation after such court, carefu ly examine the
ofﬁce, books, records and papers of such clerk, and report in
writing their condition and the manner in which the clerk
discharges his oﬂicial duties in relation thereto, s ecifying
particularly any neglect of duty, or anything, in his judg
ment, done wrongfu ly, ignorantly or corruptly. in relation
to such ofﬁce.
§ 4834. The report, when made, shall be recorded in the
register’s ofﬁce of the county, and is subject to the inspection
of all persons free of charge.
§ 4835. The compensation of the attorney-general for this
service shall be ﬁxed by the court, not exceeding twenty-ﬁve
dollars, and paid by the county in the case of the county,
circuit, and chancery courts, and by the State in the case of
the Supreme Court, on the certiﬁcate of the court ordering
the inquiry.
§ 4836. Upon the suspension or removal from ofﬁce of an
clerk, he shall, on demand of his successor or order of the
court, deliver over to such successor the books, papers, and
other articles belonging to the ofﬁce; such delivery to be en
forced as provided in §§ 993-999.
§ 4837. The court may remove its clerk upon conviction of Court ms re
a misdemeanor in ofﬁce, or of a felony; for non-residence in
the county in which the court is held ; for failing to give se
curity as required by law ; for failing to pay over public
moneys, or moneys collected ofﬁcially; for incapacity, neglect
of duty, or misbehavior in ofﬁce; and for any other cause to
which the penalty of removal from oﬂice is attached by law.
§ 4838. Immediately upon indictment found against an
clerk for a felony or misdemeanor in ofﬁce, the court of whic
he is clerk may suspend him from oﬁice and appomt a clerk
pro tempore, until a ﬁnal decision can be had, who shall be
entitled to the fees and perquisites of office during the sus
enslon.
§ 4839. The failure to pay over money collected ofﬁcially,
incapacity, neglect of duty, and misbehavior in ofﬁce, may be
shown by the record of a suit, by motion, or otherwise
founded upon one of the causes, and decided adversely to
the clerk; or, charges may be exhibited to the court in
writing by any person, and satisfactorily established by-proof,
the clerk having a right to be heard in defense, and to an
appeal as in other cases.
§ 4840. The court may direct the attorney- eneral for the
district to ﬁle and prosecute the charges, if t iought proper,
and may suspend the clerk and appoint a clerk pro tempore,
until the proceedings are ﬁnally terminated, as provided in
the section next preceding the last.
§ 4841. Any clerk who wilfully or corruptly does any act
contrary to the duties of his ofﬁce as prescribed by law, or,
in like manner, omits or refuses to perform any service or
duty re uired of him, unless some other penalty is expressly
provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and may, on convic
tion, be ﬁned not exceeding two hundred and ﬁfty dollars,
and may be removed from ofﬁce.
§ 4842. Any clerk who knowingly and wilfully makes a false
entry, or knowin ly and wilfully fails to make an entry re
quired by law to e made, or knowingly and wilfully makes
out an imperfect or incorrect transcri t of the proceedings
had in his court, with the intent to a eat the result of any
cause, is uilty of a high misdemeanor, and, upon conviction,
shall be ned and imprisoned.
§ 843. The clerk of the county court, in addition to the
duties prescribed by the preceding article, is required, as
clerk:
1. To act as clerk of the county court when held by the
quarterly court, or by the chairman or county judge.
2. To keep a docket of all the causes to be tried in the
court.
3. To enter upon said docket every suit, motion and action
that may come before the court for trial.
4. To produce to the judge of the circuit court for his ex
amination at the ﬁrst circuit court in his county after the
ﬁrst Monday in April in each year, on the second day of the
term, the bonds of all oﬂicers taken during such year by the
count court. .
5. o spread on the records of court every bond required R
to be recorded.
6. To receive and preserve the journals of Con ress, stat-
utes, and other public documents entrusted to him by law,
and deliver the same to his successor.
§ 4844. Duties in regard to revenue:
1. To list in a book provided for the purpose all appropria-
tions and allowances made by the court, all claims of jurors
and'oﬁicers for attendance, or other claim chargeable against
the county, setting forth the character, description, and for
what purpose made, including the date and amount of the
allowance, and the book and page of the minutes where the
order may be found.
2. To issue orders or certiﬁcates to the parties entitled,
and endorse thereon that they have been registered in his
ofﬁce; and such endorsement shall be necessary to authorize
the judge or chairman of the county court to issue his war
rant for the amount.
3. To make out at the ﬁrst court in each year, a balance
sheet of revenue and disbursements of the county for the
preceding year, giving the several sources of the revenue and
items of disbursement plainly, and post the sheet on the out
side wall of the courthouse.
4. To perform the acts in relation to State revenue pre-
scribed in Part I., Title 5.
§ 4845. Duties as to administration of estates: -
1. To administer to every administrator or executor an
oath to perform the will of the deceased, or for the faithful
performance of his duty.
2. To take from every such representative a bond, with
two or more able sureties, in double the value of the estate
of the deceased, payable to the State of Tennessee, conditioned
as is shown in section 3064.
3. To issue to said representative letters of administration
or testamentary, authorizing him to administer the estate of
the deceased.
4. To receive of every administrator or executor the in-
ventory he may return of the decedent’s estate, and cause
him to verify it by his oath, and present the same to the court
5. To record said inventory, it it be found regular by the
court, in the book of inventories.
6. To receive from every personal re resentative his ac-
counts of sales, and cause him to veri y them by his oath,
and present them to the court, and record them if the court
ﬁnd them regular.
7. To take and state, once every year, in vacation, at his
ofﬁce, the accounts of every personal representative of any
deceased person, after the lapse of two years from his quali
ﬁcation.
8. To compel such accountin party, by subpoena, to come
before him once every year for t e purpose of settling his ac
counts.
9. To present to the court in writing the names of those
personal representatives and guardians who refuse to answer
the subpoena, or who fail to settle; and also the names of the
minors in their county, of his knowledge, whose guardians
are in default, and the sureties of whose guardians are dead,
removed out of the State or become insolvent.
10. To examine such accounting party, when it seems nec
essary, upon oath, touching his receipts and disbursements.
11. To continue the settlement, from time to time, on cause
shown by aﬁidavit.
12. To chargie such party with all such sums as he has re
ceived, or mig t have received by using due diligence; and
credit him with such disbursements as he supports by lawful
yonchers, and with ,a reasonable compensation for his serv
ices. I
13. To report said account to the next county court for
conﬁrmation or rejection.
14. To record the said settlement when it is ﬁnally adjusted
by the court.
15. To serve every party, resident in his county, that is in- '
terested in said account, or the agent or attorney of such as
reside elsewhere, with ﬁve days’ notice of taking such ac
count, and to take no account of any administration until
such notice has been given.
16. To record all refunding bonds lodged with him by any
personal representative, taken‘from distributees, and ﬁle and
preserve the originals in his ofﬁce.
17. To perform all the duties. required of him in the admin
istration of insolvent estates of deceased persons.
§ 4846. As to guardians:
To enter in particular books to be provided and kept for
that purpose only, every guardian’s ﬁrst account of his
ward’s estate, received into his hands and possession, and
each annual account of proﬁts and disbursements afterwards
exhibited by such guardian.
§ 4847. As to apprentices:
To record indentures of apprenticeship, and receive and
preserve counterparts of the same for the beneﬁt of the ap
prentice. '
§ 4848. To take the probate or acknowledgment of all deeds
and other instruments that are entitled to registration bylaw,
and_certify the same for registration, and demand and receive
the State tax thereon, as speciﬁed in section 802.
§ 4849. As to marriages :
1. To endorse on or append to marriage license the form
of the return.
2. To re 'stcr, in a well-bound book, the names of the
parties, an the date of the issuance of a marriage license,
and to copy immediately, under or opposite thereto, the re
turn of the proper functional-y who so emuized the rites of
matrimony, with the date thereof, and ﬁle and retain the
license and return thereof in his oﬂice.
§ 4850. To record in well-bound books all letters testament
ary and of administration, all guardian appointments, and
all settlements made by them with guardians and personal
representatives.
§ 851. To perform such other duties as are, or may be, by
law required of him.
§ 4852. To make out a statement of the strength and con
dition of the militia, and transmit a copy to the adjutant
general by the ﬁrst of September each year.
§ 4853. Whenever the clerk of the county court is incom
petent, because of interest or relationship, to do or perform
any ofﬁcial act required by law to be done by him, it shall be
lawful, and is hereby made the duty of the judge or chair
man of the county court to do and perform said act; when,
however, the clerk is incompetent to take and state any ac
count, the same shall be taken and stated by a special com
missioner, to be appointed by the court as now provided by
law.
§ 4854. The clerk of each circuit court, in addition to the
duties prescribed by Article I. of this chapter, is required—
1. At each term of the court, when the jury is discharged,
to make out and certify a list of the jury, with the number
of days they have served, and the amount due to each, and
deliver the same to the county court clerk, to be by him reg
istered, and certiﬁcates issued thereon as prescribed by § 4844.
2. To make out and transmit to the clerk of the Supreme
Court transcripts of the record, in all cases in which appeals
in the nature of writs of error have been taken from his
court, within forty days after the rendition of the judgment,
unless the case has been determined within forty days of the
session of the Supreme Court, or during such session, and in
that event forthwith.
3. To enter up judgment of the court on its records, after
the verdict of a jury.
4. To note on every execution or order of sale of land,
the defendant’s direction to advertise the same in a news
paper.
5, To furnish the district attorney, on the ﬁrst day of the
term, the names of the prosecutors and defendants under
recognizance to appear at said term.
6. To present to the judge of the circuit or criminal court,
all bills of costs for his certiﬁcate, in criminal cases, in which
the State or county is liable for the costs.
7. To call on the-district attorney on the ﬁrst day of the
term of his court, to advise him in making out a full and
perfect caption to be preﬁxed to the proceedings of said
court in criminal cases.
8. To record, at full length, on the minutes of his court,
the papers returned into the court by a justice of the peace,
for the purpose of having a condemnation of land levied on
by execution from such justice, and order of sale'.
9. To enter, at full length, upon the minutes of the court,
the presentment or indictment in cases of felony.
10. To perform duties in relation to revenue, as prescribed
in sections 877 to 893.
11. The clerk of the circuit court is the only-proper erson
for his county, to receive from delinquent revenue col ectors
money due from them to the State.
12. Upon all moneys by him received from such collectors
and reported to the Comptroller, and paid into the treasury,
he shall receive at the rate of six per cent. for compensation.
13. To perform such other duties as are, or may be re
uired by law.
§ 4855. Whenever the circuit judge fails to hold his court,
as required by law, the clerk may, at the expiration of the
prescribed time, adjourn the court until the next term. '
§ 4856. And the clerk is authorized, in such case, to enter
forieiture of all recognizances previously taken, for the a -
pearance of parties 'or witnesses, where the parties or Wit
nesses on being called by the sheriﬁ fail to appear in pur
suance of the recognizances.
§ 4857. Or to take new recognizances from such of the parties
as do appear, according to law, for their appearance at the
next term of the court.
§ 4858. If an person bound in a recognizance to appear,
appears accor ingly, but fails or refuses to enter into a new
recognizance, simllar to and of the purport and eﬁ'ect of the
preVIous recognizance, for his appearance at the next term,
he shall be deemed to have surrendered himself to the sheriff,
and shall be in custody until he enters into such recognizance
as is by law required upon surrender by bail in like cases.
§ 4859. The same proceedings shall be had in all cases for
forfeitures entered by the clerk, in pursuance of these provis
ions, as if the same had been entered by order of court.
§ 4860. The provisions of this article a pl to clerks of the
criminal and other special courts establislie by law.
§ 861. The clerk of the chancery court, in addition to the
duties prescribed by Art. I. of this chapter, is required—
1. To keep a rule docket, in which shall be entered the
names of the plaintiffs and defendants in full; the names of
the attorneys and counsel; a minute of the date of the issu
ance and return of process, with the return thereon; and a
note of all the orders and proceedings made at oﬁice.
2. To keep a well-bound book, in which shall be entered,
under the name of each case, the depositionstaken and ﬁled
in the case, the names of the witnesses, and the date of the
ﬁling and by whom. This book may be dispensed with by
keeping the rule docket in such way as to enable the entries
here required to be made therein, without interfering with
the entries regularly belonging to that docket.
3. To issue all original, mesne and ﬁnal process from the
court; make orders of publication for defendants; grant
decrees pro confesso for want of answer; hear exceptions to
bills, answers, and reports, subject at all times to the control,
direction, and supervision of the chancellor.
4. To perform such other duties as are, or may be, by law
required.
§ 4862. He is authorized 'to administer oaths, and perform
all the functions of masters in chancery, unless restrained by e
the provisions of law; and to exercise all such other powers
as are or may be conferred by law.
§ 4863. He may adjourn court in the absence of the chan
cellor from day to day for three days in succession, or longer,
if, in his judgment, the interest of the public requires it, and
then adjourn it to the court in course, or to the time ﬁxed
by the chancellor for holdingla special term.
§ 4864. The clerk of the Supreme Court, in addition to the
duties prescribed by Article I. of this chapter, is required-i
1. To preserve the written opinions of the judges as other
records of his ofﬁce, subject to the inspection of all persons
Wishin to examine them, and to furnish certiﬁed copies
thereo , on demand, to any person applying and paying the
lawful fees.
2. To issue to the inferior courts, within sixty days, and
before the next term of such inferior court after the ad
journment of the Supreme Court, certiﬁed copies of the
opinion and judgment or decree in all cases reversed and re
manded. 
3. To pay over costs incurred in inferior courts as pro
vided in section 3942.
4. To note on the execution docket, executions not return
ed at the time speciﬁed in such execution.
5. To perform such other duties as are or may be required
of him by law.
§ 4865. The record books of the Supreme Court shall be
paid for out of the State treasury. The Comptroller shall
issue his warrant for the same to the clerk, upon his exhibit
ing his account for the books bought and paid for by him,
du y sworn to.
§ 4866. The clerk of the Supreme Court may be removed
from ofﬁce by the court for malfeasance, incompetency or
neglect of duty.
§ 4867. The reasons for removal shall be entered on the
minutes of the court at the term when made, if made in
term time; and at the next succeeding term if made in vaca_
tion.
§ 4868. It shall be the duty of the sheriff—
1. To mark on all process placed in his hands to be ex
ecuted, the day on which he received the same.
2. To execute all Writs and other process, to him legally
issued and directed, within his county, and make due return
thereof, either by himself or his lawful deputy.
3. To execute every notice to take depositions, which is
placed in his hands, for any party residing in his county, by
elivering a copy thereof to such party in due time; and
mark on the original notice the time of delivering such copy,
and return the same to the clerk of the court in which the
suit is pending.
4. To serve, in due time, any delinquent ofﬁcer or principal
debtor with a copy of any notice of motion placed in his hands
to be served on such oﬁicer or debtor, and return the original
notice in due time to the clerk of the court in which the
motion is to be made, with his endorsement of service.
5. To go to the house or place of abode of every defendant
against whom he has process in his hands, before returning
on the same that the defendant is not to be found.
6. To specify in his return in what. county in the State the
defendant resides, when he is a known inhabitant of any
other county than that of the sheriff to which the process is
directed.
7. To use, in the execution of process, a degree of diligence
exceeding that which a prudent man employs in his own af
fairs.
8. To give a receipt, if required by the party, for execu
tions laced in his hands.
9. £0 receive nothing but money, or, unless otherwise in
structed, current convertible bank notes, in satisfaction of any
writ of execution placed in his hands.
10. To levy every writ of execution ﬁrst on the defendant’s
goods and chattels if there be any.
11. To levy the same upon lands to the amount of the
whole debt, or so much as may remain, more than the value
of the goods and chattels, if there are not, or to the best of
his knowledge, there be not, goods and chattels, or not sufﬁ
cient to answer the plaintiff ’s demand.
12. T0 exhaust the property of a principal before he sells
the property of a surety, as provided in section .
13. To take from a defendant, on whose personal propert
he has levied an execution, a delivery bond, if requeste ,
with surety, for double the amount of the execution, payable
to the plaintiff, conditioned for the delivery of the property
at the day and place of sale.
14. To levy said execution, if the bond be forfeited, upon
so much of the property of the defendant, if to be found, as
shall be sufﬁcient to satisfy it; and, if there be a deﬁcit, then
upon the surety’s property, sufﬁcient to satisfy so much of
the debt as the property not delivered was valued at.
15. To summon a jury to ascertain the value of the nude
livered property of the principal, if the value is not set forth
in the delivery bond.
16. To return the execution, and the bond with it, to the
tribunal from which it issued, if satisfaction of the execution
cannot be had before the return day.
17. To have personal property that he sells under execu
tion present at the time of sale, unless the defendant agree
that it may be sold without being present.
18. To describe land levied upon by execution or attach
ment, so as to identify it and distinguish it from other lands.
19. To serve the defendant in possession of land with
twienty days’ notice of the levy, and of the time and place of
sa e.
20. To advertise the sale of any land levied on by execution,
as prescribed in sections 2969, 2973.
21. To pay the expense of such advertisement out of the
proceeds of the sale. _
22. To return every execution which comes to his hands,
on or before the day of return mentioned therein, with a
sufﬁcient response endorsed thereon or attached thereto.
23. To pay to the party entitled to the same, or his agent
or attorney, on demand, any moneys collected by him on any
execution from a court of record.
24. To return with such execution any money collected thereon.
25. To make out, if required _by the defendant, on levying
any debt, dam es or costs by Virtue of an execution, a bil
of his fees due in the case, and set down, under said bill, a
true copy of the clerk’s and other endorsed fees separately
and distinctly, and give a receipt for the same to the defendant
in the execution.
26. To endorse on the execution the amount of his own
fees taken on the same, to be entered by the clerk on the ex
ecution docket.
27. To pay to the party entitled thereto, or to his agent or
attorney, any money collected by him, by Virtue of an exe
cution from a justice of the peace, on or before the return
day of the execution.
28. To pay to the party entitled to receive the same, or to
his agent or attorney, any money collected by him upon any
debt or demand placed in his hands for collection, whether
he collects or receives the mone before or after the issuance
of any summons, or before or a ter the rendition of a judg
ment, or the issuance of an execution.
29. To return every execution issued by any justice of the
peace and placed in his hands, with a suﬂicient response
thereon, within thirty, days after the issuance of the same,
either to the justice who issued it, or to the justice having
possession of his papers.
§ 4869. The judicial power of the State is vested in justices
of the peace, recorders of'certain towns and cities, county
ourts, circuit courts, criminal courts, common law and chan
cery courts, chancery courts and the Supreme Court.
§ 4870. If for any cause, in the opinion of the court deemed
sufﬁcient, it shall be impracticable or inconvenient for any
court to hold its session at the courthouse, or lace desig
nated by law, it shall be lawful for the court to old its ses
sion, or any part thereof, at any other room within the limits
of the county town, and all its proceedings at such place,
whether in civil or criminal cases, shall be as valid as if done
at the courthouse.
§ 4871. In case of conﬂict among the courts, the use of the
court-room may be regulated by consent, in which case the
court yielding the room may hold its session in any other
room within the limits of the county town. If no agreement
be made, the county court shall be entitled to the court-room
on the ﬁrst Monday of the month over either of the other
courts, but no longer, and the circuit court shall be preferred
to the chancery court.
§ 4872. If excluded from the court-room on Monday, the
circuit court shall try no jury causes on that day. except by
consent of parties.
§ 4873. No judge of any court, chancellor or justice shall
sit in any cause or proceedings in which he is interested, or
has been of counsel, or where he is related to either party by
consanguinity or afﬁnity, within the sixth degree, computing
by the civil law, except by consent of the parties entered of
record, or put in writing, if the court is not a court of record.
§ 4874. Every court has power—
1. To enforce order in its immediate presence, or as near
thereto as is necessary to prevent interruption, disturbance,
or hindrance to its proceedings.
2. To enforce order before a person or body acting under
its authority.
3. To compel obedience to its judgments, orders, and pro
cess, and to the orders of a judge out of court, in an action
or proceeding therein.
4. To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its
ofﬁcers, and all other persons connected with a judicial pro
ceedin before it, in every matter appertaining thereto.
5., o administer oaths whenever it may be necessary in
the excrcise of its powers and duties.
6. To control its process and orders.
7. To appoint guardian ad litem for infants.
§ 4875. 1‘ or the eﬂ'ectual exercise of its powers, every court
is vested with power to punish for contempt, as provided for
in this Code.
§ 4876. The minutes of the court shall be read each morn
ing in open court, and signed by the judge.
The minutes, as written by the clerk, are evidence of the facts they recite,
though the judge has failed to sign them. 3 Heis., 499; 8 Bax., 572. So where
judge dies pending a motion for new trial where the motion has been entered.
4 Len, 357.
§ 4877. In all suits, instituted according to law, to sell the
real estate of decedents for the payment of debts, or to sell
lands for partition, the court may decree a sale of lands lying
in any part of the'State.
§ 4878. The courts of this State having jurisdiction to sell
lands, instead of ordering parties to conve , may divest and
vest title directly by decree, or empower t e clerk to make title.
§ 4879. The decree or deed of the clerk, as the case may he,
shall have the same force and effect as a conveyance by the
party, and shall be re istered.
§ 4880. And, in suc cases, where the sale is made at the
voluntary instance of parties, the decree or deed Of the clerk
shall imply a covenant of seisin and warranty of title by the
parties whose interest is sold, their heirs and representatives,
unless otherwise provided in the face of the decree.
§ 4881. The power of the several courts of this State to
issue attachments, and inﬂict punishments for contempts of
court, shall not be construed to extend to any except the fol
lowin cases:
1. he wilful misbehavior of any person in the presence
of the court, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administra
tion of justice.
2. The wilful misbehavior of any of the oﬁicers of said
courts, in their oﬂicial transactions.
3. The wilful disobedience or resistance of any oﬂicer'of
the said courts, party, juror, witness, or any other person, to
any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command of
said courts.
4. Abuse of, or unlawful interference with, the process or
proceedings of the court. _
5. Wilfully conversing with jurors in relation to the merits
of the cause in the trial of which they are engaged, or other
wise tampering with them.
6. Any other act or omission declared a contempt by law.
§ 4882. The punishment for contempt may be by ﬁne or
imprisonment, or both; but where not otherwise specially
provided, the circuit, chancery, and Supreme courts are
limited to a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, and imprisonment not ex
ceeding ten days, and all other courts are limited to a ﬁne of
ten dollars.
§ 4883. But if the contempt consists in an omission to per
form an act which it is yet in the power of the person to
perform, he may be im risoned until he performs it.
§ 4884. If it consists 1n the performance of 'a forbidden act, D
the person may be imprisoned until the act is rectiﬁed by
placing matters and person in statu quo, or by the payment of
damages.
§ 4885. Upon an attachment to answer for a contempt, ex
cept in not performin a decree, the ofﬁcer executing the
process shall take bail rom the defendant as in other cases ;
and the court ordering the attachment shall specify the pen
alty of such appearance bond.
§ 4886. If the penalty is not ﬁxed by the court, it shall be
two hundred and ﬁfty dollars.
§ 4887. Any oﬂicer authorized to punish for contempt, is a
court within the meaning of this chapter.
§ 4888. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace, when not
otherwise provided, is geographically co-extensive with the
limits of their respective counties.
§ 4889. In all actions brought for the collection of any debt,
the warrant or summons Issued by a justice of the peace ‘
shall be returned in the district in which the plaintiff resides,
or in which his agent or attorney resides, if the plaintiﬁ be
a non-resident of the county, unless the defendant acknowl
edges in writing the plaintiff’s claim, and that he has no
offsets. _ ‘
§ 4890. In all other cases the warrant shall be returned in
the district where the defendant resides, or in the adjoining
district, if the ofﬁce of the justice in such adjoining district
is nearer to the residence of the defendant than the ofﬁce of
the justice in his own district.
§ 4891. If there are more defendants than one, the war
rant may be returned in the district in which either of them
resides, or the adjoining district, as in the preceding section,
unless the defendants sustain towards each other the relation
of principal and surety, on the face of the contract. or maker
and endorser of negotiable paper; in either of which cases,
the return shall be in the district in which one of the prin
cipals or makers resides, or in the adjoining district as in the
preceding section,
§ 4892. When the defendant has no ﬁxed residence, or is
about to remove or abscond, or does not reside in the county,
the warrant may be returned in the district in which it is
served, or before the most convenient magistrate.
§ 4893. If the magistrates of the district in which the war
rant is returnable are incompetent, or are absent, or if there
be no magistrate of the district, the warrant may be returned
in any adjoining district, free from like exception.
§ 4894. By consent of the parties, the warrant may be re
turned, or the cause tried without warrant, before any justice
of the peace in the county.
§ 895. Objections to the jurisdiction of the justice before
whom the warrant is returned, shall be made before the hear
ing, or they will be considered as waived.
§ 4896. Actions'of replevin, or suits commenced by attach
ment, may be tried in any district in which any portion of
the property is found.
§ 4897. The action of forcible entry and detainer shall be
tried anywhere in the county in which the property, or any
part of it, is.
§ 4898. The jurisdiction of justices
cases, extends—
of the peace, in civil
1. To one thousand dollars, upon all notes of hand indis
criminately, whether calling for dollars and cents simply, or
for an amount to be discharged in other means than money,
or for an amount of any article or multiplicity of articles
whatever; and upon endorsements of ne otiable paper, where
demand and notice are expressly waive in the en orsement.
2. To all unsettled accounts, obligations, contracts, or other
evidences of debt not embraced in the preceding section,
when the amount claimed does not exceed ﬁve hundred dol
lars. 1
3. In all cases for the recovery of property, and in all cases
of damages, except libel and slander, arising from either tort
or contract, where the value of the property sued for or the
damages demanded do not exceed ﬁve hundred dollars.
4. To all penalties, forfeitures and ﬁnes, incurred under the
estray laws, and for the recovery of any sums of money due
under said laws, when the amount does not exceed one hun
dred dollars.
5. To enforce mechanic’s lien for any sum within hisjuris
diction.‘
6. To all equity causes, where the subject-matter does not
exceed ﬁfty dollars.
7. To all cases of forcible entry and detainer.
8. To give judgment by motion, under the provisions of sections 4942—4946.
9. To all other cases where jurisdiction is or may be ex
pressly given by law.
§ 4899. Any justice of the peace, and any court of this
State, before whom any cause may be pending, by appeal or
otherwise, where the subject-matter does not exceed ﬁfty dol
lars, shall bear and determine such cause upon principles of
equity, and render such judgment or decree as the merits of
the case may require, and in the same manner as courts of
chancery.
§ 4900. Justices of the peace are vested with power—
1. To grant writs of attachment, returnable to the circuit
court in the same manner and to the same extent as the cir
cuit judge. -
2. To enter up judgment by confession of a defendant to
any amount within his jurisdiction in the particular case.
3. To issue an execution in his county upon a certiﬁed ex
ecution from another county.
4. To issue a subpoena for witnesses, in any matter to be
tried before him, to his own or an adjoining county.
5. To issue scire facias to revive judgments a ainst the
personal representatives and heirs of deceased parties, to any
count in the State.
6. "0 issue alias and plun'es executions whenever neces
sary.
7. To issue counterpart writs to any county in the State
for the principal maker of any bill, bond, or note at the in
stance of the surety or endorser, who is sued thereon.
8. To grant writs of certiorari and supersedeas to carry up
proceedings of justices to the circuit court, within twenty
days after jud ent.
H. To punis persons disturbing them in the discharge of
their ofﬁcial duties.
10. And to do and perform all such other acts and duties
as are, or may be, conferred upon them by law.
§ 4901. It is the duty of a justice of the peace—
1. To keep a judgment and execution docket, as herein
after particularly described.
2. To issue no process upon less than half a page of writing
paper.
3. To retain, preserve, and ﬁle away in order, and properly
marked for easy reference, all the papers in civil cases before
them, unless returned or transmitted, in pursuance of law, to
the circuit court upon appeal, or otherwise.
4. To transmit all the papers relative to the trial of a cause
in which an appeal has been taken, to the circuit court on or
before the second day of the term to which the appeal is re
turnable,
5. To transmit copies of such papers in the same way, in
cases where only a portion of the parties have appealed.
6. To return such papers, when an execution has been
levied on real estate of the defendant, to the circuit court, on
the second day of the term next after the lev Y.
7. To return all marriage licenses, under w ich he has sol
emnized the rites of matrimony, to the oﬂice of the clerk of
the county court, within six months.
8. To deliver over in case of resignation, removal or expi
ration of his term of ofﬁce, all his oﬁicial books and papers,
according to law. ‘
9. Not to sign a warrant or summons until written out in
full.
10. Not to issue an alias or pluries execution until the ex
ecution previously issued is returned, or aiﬁdavit made ac
counting for its absence, and showing that it is unsatisﬁed.
11. To safely keep for public inspection, and deliver. over
according to law, any statutes or public documents received
by him oﬁicially, under a penalty of twenty-ﬁve dollars, to
be sued for by the county court clerk, and a sufﬁcient amount
thereof applied to the purchase of the missing books, and
the residue to the county treasury.
12. To perform all other duties which are, or may be, pre
scribed by law. '
§ 4902. Every justice of the peace should designate some
one day in every month, when he will attend at his usual
place of residence, or at some other convenient place in his
ldistrict, to hear and determine all matters cognizable before
him.
§ 4903. He is authorized, however, to try any cause that
may be brought before him at any time and at any place
within the county, unless expressly prohibited by some posi
tive provision of the Code. > '
§ 4904. Every justice of the peace shall keep in a well- 8
bound book, properly ruled for that purpose, a docket of all
judgments rendered by him, showing in whose favor and
against whom each judgment is rendered, the names of the
parties in full, and the date and amount of the judgment.
§ 4905. He shall also keep, in the- same book, an execution
docket, showing the amount of each execution, in whose
favor and against whom issued, the date of issuance, to whom
delivered, the date of return, and by whom returned, and
the substance of the return, specifying particularly whether
satisﬁed in whole or in part. 4906.
And the justice shall enter therein, in continuous
order, and in distinct columns, with proper date to each act:
1. The number of each case.
2. The date of trial, and of each continuance, if any.
3. The names of the parties in full.
4. The amount of the judgment.
5. The name of the stayor, if any.
6. The name of the ofﬁcer who returns the warrant. ‘
7. The date of the issuance of each execution, and to
whom delivered. 8.
The bill of costs, the items written in words,_with the
amounts in ﬁgures. .
9. The date of the return of the execution, by whom re
turned, and the substance of the return.
§ 4907. A substantial compliance with these requirements
will be sufﬁcient to render the proceedings and entries valid
for all purposes, so far as the parties litigant are concerned,
and all persons claiming under them.
§ 4908. But it is a misdemeanor in the justice not to keep
the docket and make the entries required, for which, upon
conviction, he may be removed from ofﬁce, and subjects him,
moreover, to a penalty of ﬁfty dollars for each omission, to
be recovered by any one who sues therefor.
§ 4909. He is also liable in damages to any person injured,
for failing to preserve and keep his papers or dockets.
§ 4910. In case of sickness, other disability, or necessary
absence of a justice at the time ﬁxed for the trial of a cause
or other proceeding, any other justice of the county may, at
his request, attend and transact the business for him, without
transfer to another ofﬁce. The entries, in such case, will be
made in the docket of the justice at whose ofﬁce the business
is transacted.
§ 4911. Any justice of the peace may issue execution on 9.
judgment rendered by another, and take any other step neces
sary in the cause, to the enforcement of the rights of the
parties—
1. Where the ofﬁce of the justice who rendered the judg
ment is vacant.
2. Where the justice absents himself from the district for
three months tdgether.
3. Where he is temporarily absent.
4. By interchange, as in the foregoing section.
§ 4912. In case of temporary absence of a justice from his
district for more than three months, he shall deposit his dockets
and papers, to the extent of all unsettled business, with the
nearest justice, to be kept and acted upon by him as provided
in the two preceding sections. >
§ 4913. If the judgment be rendered by one justice, and
execution be issued by another, and in all other cases where
steps appear to be taken by one justice instead of another,
the presumption, in the absence of proof to the contrary, is
that the execution was issued and steps taken regularly.
§ 4914. Whenever the oﬂice of any justice of the peace be-
_
comes vacant, by death, removal or otherWise, all the dock-
ets, papers, books and public laws or statutes ertaining to
the ofﬁce, shall be delivered over to his successor if chosen and
qualiﬁed, and if not, to the nearest justice in the district or
county, as the case may be, to be kept until a successor is
qualiﬁed, and then delivered to such successor on request.
§ 4915. If there are any judgments in a magistrate’s oﬂice
against the successor, the preceding justice, his personal re -
resentatives, or the erson in possession of the ofﬁcial boo s
and papers, should eliver to the nearest competent justicein
the district or county all the papers relating to those judg
ments. ‘
§ 4916. Any person'into whose possession such books and
papers may come, shall deliver them to the proper justice entitled to their custody, who shall give a receipt accordingly
to the person deliverin them to him.
§ 4917. Any person w 0 neglects or refuses to comply with
either, of the provisions of the last three sections, may he
proceeded against as prescribed in sections 993-999; is guilty
of a misdemeanor, and is, moreover, responsible in damages
to any party injured by his neglect or refusal.
See 10 Hum., 41.
§ 4918. The justice having the possession of the official
books and papers of another justice, by way of succession or
otherwise, may issue executions and other process, and give
transcripts in the same manner and with like eﬂ'ect as the
justice who rendered the judgment.
§ 4919._ Before issuing original process _in any civil action,
the justice may require the plaintiff to give security for the
prosecution of the action, or take the’ oath entitling him to
sue without security. '
§ 4920. No justice of the peace shall sign any leading pro
cess or attachment, unless written out at length, so as to be
complete.
§ 4921. Civil actions before a justice of the peace are com
menced by summons, to be signed and issued by a justice, in
substance as follows:
STATE or TENNESSEE,
county.
To any lawful oﬁicer to execute and return:
Summon A. B. to appear before me, or some other justice
of the peace for said county, to answer C. D. in a civil action
by note, (or upon an account, or otherwise, as the case may
be,) under dollars, this —- day of —-—, 18—.
E. F., Justice.
§ 922. The constable is the proper executive oﬂicer of- a
justice’s court, but the sheriff may perform any of the duties
required.
§ 4923. A justice may, in writing, specially depute any dis
creet person of full age, not being a party to the suit pend
ing, to perform any particular duty devolving by law upon a
constable, if no constable is at hand and the business urgent;
but no magistrate shall make such special deputation unless
one of the parties to a suit pending, or his or her attorne ,
shall make oath before the magistrate, and ﬁle the same 111
writing, stating that to the best of their information there is
no regular oilicer at hand, and that the business is urgent.
§ 4924. The person thus deputized is vested with all the
powers of a constable for the occasion, and is subject to the
same obligations and penalties.
§ 4925. If the time and place oftrial is not ﬁxed in the war-
rant, the oﬂicer serving it shall notify the defendant of the
time and place, and make his return accordingly.
§ 4926. The parties in all cases are entitled to one hour in
which to appear after the time ﬁxed for trial, and neither
party is bound to wait longer for the other.
§ 4927. Unless the hour for trial shall be ﬁxed in the war
rant, or in the return of the ofﬁcer executing the warrant,
such hour of trial shall be noon, and neither party shall be
bound to wait for the other longer than one hour thereafter.
§ 4928. Continuances may be had, for the purpose of obtain
ing evidence not then in reach, upon good cause shown by
aﬁldavit, specifying the testimony relied on, and ﬁled with
the papers; but no second continuance, by the same party,
shall be allowed except on payment of all costs; nor third
continuance unless the party applying shall give bond, with
good security, in a sufﬁcient sum, to abide by and perform
Elbe judgment. The continuance shall in no case exceed sixty
a s.
§ 4929. Either party applying for a continuance, shall, if
required by the opposite party, consent that the testimony of
any witness in attendance be then taken, to be used on the
trial of the cause. '
§ 4930, If neither party a pears at the time and place ﬁxed
for trial, or demands a tria , and no evidence has been ﬁled
with the justice, the suit shall be dismissed at the plaintiff ’s
cost.
§ 4931. If the defendant does not appear, the justice shall
proceed to hear the allegations and proofs of the plaintiﬂ",
and shall render jud ment thereon for the amount to which
he shows himself entltled under the warrant.
§ 4932. If the plalntlﬁ falls to appear or ﬁle evidences of his
claim, the justlce may hear the allegations and proofs of the
defendant, and render such judgment as, in his opinion, the
nature of the case requires.
§ 4933. In all causes for the collection of a debt. by note or
otherwise, before justices of the peace, the plaintiﬁ shall ﬁle
with the warrant the evidences of his claim on or before the
day of trial.
§ 4934. If he fails to comply with this requirement, and the
justice renders judgment against him for the costs, the plain
tiff shall, in case he appeals, make oath before the justice, or
the court to which the appeal is taken, that the evidence of
indebtedness was not withheld from the trial with a view to
deprive the defendant ofthe beneﬁt of the stay allowed bylaw.
§ 4935. Should he appeal, and fail or refuse to make the
oath, the court, if satisﬁed that the plaintiff intended to evade
the provision of section 3771, shall enter stay of execution on'
the face of the judgment until the expiration of eight months
from the date of the trial below, and without securit .
§ 4936. If the defendant pleads a set-off to the p aintiﬁ’s
debt, and it appears that there is a balance due in favor of the
defendant, the justice or the court trying the case shall enter
up judgment in favor of the defendant, and a ainst the plain
tiff for such balance, and if the plaintiff fails in establish~
ing any demand against the defendant, the defendant shall
have a judgment against the plaintiff for the amount which
the proof upon his cross-action shows that he is entitled to
with costs. 
§ 4937. It" the sum found for either plaintiff or defendant
exceed the jurisdiction of the justice, such party may remit
the excess, and take judgment for the residue; but he cannot
afterwards sue for the amount so remitted.
§ 4938. If the residue upon the defendant’s set-oﬁ, after
satisfying the plaintiff ’s debt, exceed the magistrate’s juris
diction, the defendant may enter on the justice’s docket a
satisfaction of so much of his claim as the amount of the
plaintiff’s demand as ascertained by the justice, and tender
the plaintiﬂ a receipt for the amount thus set-off, in which
case judgment shall be rendered in favor of the defendant for
costs.
§ 4939. After a suit is decided and disposed of, the justice
shall, if re uired, read over to the parties the entries made
by him on is docket.
§ 4940. He shall also furnish a transcript of the proceedings
in any cause, including the process and written evidence
ﬁled, and the entries on his docket, duly certiﬁed under his
hand, to any person applying therefor, and paying the legal
fees. Such transcript shall be evidence. .
§ 4941. The transcript, if used out of the county in which
the proceedings are had, shall be accompanied by the certiﬁ-
eate of the clerk of the county court of the county, under
his seal of ofﬁce, if he have one, of the ofﬁcial character and
.signature of the justice.
§ 4942. Sheriﬁs, coroners, and constables, and their sureties,
are liable to judgment by motion for the amount to which
the plaintiﬁ' is entitled, with interest, and damages at the rate
of twelve and one-half per cent., in the followin cases:
1. Before any justice of the county where suc ofﬁcer, by
virtue of his ofﬁce, collects or receives money upon any debt
or demand, under a magistrate’s jurisdiction, put into his
hands for collection, and fails to pay it over to the person
entitled, Whether he collected or received the money before
or after the issuance of a warrant, or before or after the ren
dition of judgment.
2. Before the justice having legal custody of the papers,
where an execution from a justice having come to his hands,
he fails to return it within thirty days after its issuance.
3. Or where, having collected money on execution issued
by a justice, he fails or refuses to pay it.
4. He is also liable before any justice of the county to
motion by any justice or witness, for failin to pay over costs
on execution, collected and due him, or fa' ing to return exe
cution issued for such cost; and any number of cases in favor
of one justice or witness may be joined in one motion.
§ 4943. The inability of the oﬁicer to make due return of
an execution, .under the provisions of the preceding section,
on account of sickness, high water, or engagement in exe
cuting any precept on behalf of the State, Will be sufﬁcient
excuse to discharge the oﬂicer from the penalties prescribed.
§ 4944. The ofﬁcer, if to be found in the county, shall have
ﬁve days’ notice, in writing, of the time and place of motion.
§ 4945, And the plaintiff, before he is entitled to judgment
against the sureties, shall produce to the justice a certiﬁed
copy of the ofﬁcial bond of such ofﬁcer.
§ 4946. When any surety or stayor is compelled to pay a
justice’s judgment against a principal debtor, for which he is
liable, he may, by motion before the justice having legal cus
tody of the jud ment, recover judgment against the principal
debtor for the judgment with interest and costs, or a ainst a
co-surety or stayor, for his ratable part thereof, whic judg~
ment is not liable to he stayed, except by consent of the surety
in writing.
§ 4947. Proceedings in replevin may be conducted before
justices, as prescribed in sections 4130—5.
§ 4948. Justices of the peace have jurisdiction to proceed
by attachment against the propert of the defendant, in the
same way as the courts of recor ,under the rules, regula
tions, and provisions in this Code prescribed in regard to
proceedings by attachment, as far as the same are applicable,
and not controlled by other express provisions.
§ 4949. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace in such
cases, is limited to the amount of their jurisdiction over
the subject-matter of suit, or cause of action.
§ 4950. The proceedings after the issuance and service of
attachment, and on the trial and enforcement of the plaintiff ’s
claim, are the same as if the suit had been commenced in the
ordinary way, the rights acquired by the attachment being
governed by the provisions of this Code regulating attach
ments. 
§ 4951. Every intendment is in favor of the sufﬁciency and
validity of proceedings before justices of the peace, when
brought in uestion, either directly or collaterally, in any of
the courts 0 the State, where it appears on the face of the
proceedin s that the justice had jurisdiction of the subject
matter and of the parties.
§ 4952. N0 civil case originating before ajustice of the peace
and carried to a higher court, shall be dismissed by such
court fer any informality whatever, but shall be tried on its
merits; and the court shall allow all amendments in the form
of action, the parties thereto, or the statement of the cause of
action, necessary to reach the merits, upon such terms as
may be deemed just and proper.
§ 4953, An appeal bond returned with other papers to the
circuit court, is prima facie evidence that an appeal was
prayed and granted, but the presumption may be rebutted -by
proof that an appeal was not prayed and obtained within the
time allowed by law.
§ 4954. The county court consists 'of the justices of the
county. It is divided into a quarterly and monthly court.
The ﬁrst being held by all or such number of the justices
necessary to transact business ; the latter by the chairman or
judge of the county court.
§ 4955. All business in the county court which cannot law
fully be done by the county judge or chairman, shall be done
at the quarterly sessions, to be held on the ﬁrst Mondays of
January, April, July, and October of each year.
§ 4956. Only one justice of the peace from each civil dis
trict, except the district including the county seat, and only
two justices from such county seat district, and only one jus
tice of the peace from each town ward entitled to one or
more justices, shall compose the quarterly county court, and
be entitled to vote and draw Pay for attendance; and the
justices of each civil district and ward shall alternate in al
phabetical order'in their attendance, if there be more than
one justice in any civil district or ward.
§ 4957. If the justice entitled to attend at'any term fails to
attend, the other justice from the same district or ward may
attend and be entitled to vote and to pay.
§ 4958. Three-ﬁfths of the justices entitled to attend shall
constitute a quorum, and such quorum is hereby vested with
all the powers, jurisdiction and authority now conferred by
law upon quarterly courts.
§ 4959. Shouldany oﬁice be required to be ﬁlled, or vacancy
occur in any oﬂice required to be ﬁlled, by the county court,
it shall be the duty of the clerk, or if there be no clerk, his
deputy, and if there be no clerk or deputy, of the acting
chairman to give at least ten days’ notice to every justice of
the peace of his county to assemble at the courthouse of his
county in order to ﬁll such oﬂice or vacancy, and in ﬁlling
all of said ofﬁces or vacancies, all of the justices of the county
. shall be entitled to attend and draw pay; but shall not draw
pay for more than one day; and a majority of all the justices
of the county shall be necessary to constitute a quorum.
§ 4960. The justices of the peace of said court, a majority
being present, at their ﬁrst term in every year, except in
counties where a county judge is provided for, shall elect a
chairman, who holds his oﬁice for one year and until his suc
cessor is appointed; and who presides over the deliberations
of the court, and performs such other duties as now are or
may be assigned him by law.
§ 4961. The justices of the peace of said court shall also at
the same term, elect from their number a chairman pro tempore,
who shall be vested with all the powers of the regular
chairman for the time he is acting'as chairman.
§ 4962. The chairman of the county court shall attend at
the courthouse of his county, on the ﬁrst Monday of every
month, and shall exercise all jurisdiction heretofore exercised
by the quorum courts, and shall on said ﬁrst Mondays, and such
subse uent days as may be necessary, attend to all matters
and adjudicate and determine all questions and do all other
acts, and thin s the quorum courts could do.
§ 4963. He s all have and exercise all the jurisdiction and
powers, duties and privileges conferred on the county judge
by sections 4977 to 4980, inclusive, of this Code; and the
chairman shall hold his court, and shall have the county court
clerk as the clerk of his court, as prescribed in sections
§ 4974-5.
§ 4964. He shall continue to possess, exercise and discharge
all the jurisdiction, powers, duties and privileges now POSsessed,
exercised and discharged by him.
§ 4965. It shall be the duty of the re ular chairman to
notify the chairman pro tempore when he s iall fail or be un-
able to attend either the quarterly or monthly courts; and it
is made the duty of the chairman pro tempore to dischar e all
the duties of the oﬁice of the regular chairman, in his ab
sence.
§ 4966. The chairman shall receive no compensation when
absent from the court, unless his absence is the result of sick
ness, or an unavoidable accident; and the chairman pro tem
pore shall, receive for his services such com ensation as the
county court may give him, provided it shal not exceed the
compensation allowed the chairman for like services.
§ 4967. All business for the action of the quarterly court
. - _
shall, be presented to the judge or chairman, who sha an
nounce the same to the court and take the vote thereon; and
no business shall be acted on by the court unless presented as
herein required, except by the consent of a majority of the
justices present.
§ 4968. The quarterly courts are required, at the ﬁrst term' in
every year, to impose and provide for the collection of the
tax for county purposes, and ﬁx the rate thereof; but if they
omit such duty at the ﬁrst term, it shall be performed at the .
April, or any subsequent quarterly session.
§ 4969. The elections for county oﬁicers devolvin on the
quarterly courts, should be made on the ﬁrst day of t e term;
but the justices present may, in their discretion, adjourn any
election to the following day.
§ 4970. In making appropriations of money, the vote of the
justices present shall be taken by ayes and noes, the clerk
calling and recording the name of each justice, together with
his vote, aye or no, as it is iven, which shall be entered on
'the minutes, together with t e items of allowance.
urts of this State shall be made ﬁrst to the monthly court
sitting last before the meeting of the quarterly court at which
the appropriation is to be passed upon.
§ 4972. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the county court
. . . . . . . .
to keep a book 1n which said applications for appropriation
shall be entered when made to the monthly court, and the
same shall be open for the inspection of the citizens of the
county.
§ 4973. The quarterl courts shall not consider or make any
appropriation unless t e same shall have ﬁrst been entered in
a book as heretofore re uired.
§ 4974. Three-ﬁfths o the justices entitled to attend, shall
be required to levy a tax, or to approprlate public money. 
§ 4975. The quarterly county courts shall have power, and
it shall be their duty, to vote the stock of the county In any
railroad, in all elections of oﬂicers and directors In such rail
road.
§ 4976. The mode of procedure In the county court, where
the jurisdiction is concurrent either with the circuit or chancery court, shall be as near as may be, according to the rules
an regulations laid down for the conduct of similar business
In these courts.
§ 4977. The quorum court of the several counties authorized
to elect a county jud e is abolished, and the judge shall have
and exercise all the jurisdiction and powers now belonging
to the said quorum court.
§ 4978. The county court to be held by the county judge,
shall have its regular sessions on the ﬁrst Monday of each
month ; but on t e Mondays of the quarterly sessions of the
county court, the business requiring the presence of all, or
any of the justices of the county, shall be ﬁrst disposed of;
and the court shall sit from day to day, so long as the busi
ness thereof may require.
§ 4979. The-county clerk shall be the clerk of the county
court to be held by the county judge. The county judge is
not precluded from practicing in the Supreme, chancery, cir
cuit,aud_ criminal courts of this State, but shall not act as
counsel in any case going up from his court.
§ 4980. The county court has original jurisdiction in the
following cases:
1. The probate of wills.
2. The granting of letters testamentary, and of adminis
tration, and the repeal and revocation thereof.
3. All controversies in relation to the right of executor
ship or of administration. '
4. The settlement of accounts of executors or administra
tors.
5'. The partition and distribution of the estates of dece
dents; and for these purposes, the power to sell the real and
personal property belonging to such estates, if necessary to
make the partition and istribution, or if manifestly for the
interest of the parties.
6. The settlement of insolvent estates; and for this pur
pose to sell real or personal property belongin thereto, at
the instance of the personal representative, or t e creditors,
where the amount of the estate does not exceed three thou
sand dollars.
7. The appointment and removal of guardians for minors
and persons of unsound mind, and all controversies as to the
right of guardianship, and the settlement of guardian ac
counts.
8. The allotment of dower in lands.
9. The partition, sale, or division of land.
10. The changing of names, and the legitimation and adop
tion of children.
11. The issuance of inquisitions of unsoundiiess of mind.
12. The binding out of apprentices, and all controversies
between master and apprentice. .
13. All other matters of which jurisdiction is conferred by
law.
§ 4981. The county court shall have concurrent jurisdiction
with the chancery and circuit courts to sell real estate of de
cedents and for distribution or partition. The mode of pro
cedure in such cases in the county court, shall conform in
every respect to the rules and regulations laid down for the
conduct of similar causes in the chancery and circuit courts.
And in such counties as have a county judge, he shall have
the powers above enumerated.
§ 4982. Such courts are expressly vested, over all subjects
enumerated in the fore oing sections, with all the power and
authority necessary an proper to the exercise of the juris
diction therein conferred. The county court is, moreover, in
cases of concurrent jurisdiction, vested with all the incidental
powers belon 'n to or conferred by law upon the court with
which its jurisdiction is concurrent, for the purpose of ex
ercising and eﬁ'ectuating such jurisdiction.
§ 4983. The court may, accordingly, appoint commissioners
to make sale of real or personal property, takin bond and
security for the faithful performance of duty,‘w en deemed
necessary; may revise, set aside, or conﬁrm the proceedings
of such commissioners, as other courts; give ‘judgments or
decrees upon notes and obligations taken in the progress of
a cause; and relieve, upon petition, any purchaser, or party,
or person interested, by opening biddings, setting aside sales,
or otherwise like the circuit or chancery court in similar
cases.
§ 4984. Said courts shall have full power to perfect and com
plete any and all of its sales to the same extent that the
chancery court has by law, and may issue writs of possession
in the cases and in the same manner that the chancery court
may issue the same. When land shall be sold by any order or
decree of the county court, and the sale reported b the clerk
and conﬁrmed by the court, the county court sha l have the
same power and jurisdiction over said cause against the pur
chaser as the chancery court now has by law, notwithstanding
said sale has been reported and conﬁrmed; and the county
court shall have the same jurisdiction overall causes pend
ing therein in any respect, that the chancery court now has
over causes pending therein.
§ 4985. The establishment and general supervision of roads
and ferries, water-courses and local improvements, is intrusted
to the- county court, as provided in sections 1323, 1423. They
have power to appoint commissioners for towns, turnpikes,
toll-brid es, and other public improvements, and to ﬁll all va
cancies t at may at any time occur among the commissioners,
as prescribed in sections 1465 and 1531. The court has also
original jurisdiction over bastardy and bastards, and general
supervision of the latter. They have also full power to lay
any tax, from time to time, and at any time that they may
think proper, to build any court-house, jail, or public oﬂice
for county purposes.
§ 4986. They may exempt any indigent, decrepit, or other
persons unable by manual labor or physical exertion to obtain
a living, from working on the public roads, or paying poll
tax, or both, as provided in section 2127; or allow persons to
hawk and peddle, without license, as provided in section 2126.
They may release from double taxes, when they have been
incurred, and correct errors in the tax list. They have power
to erect or control, and dispose of public county buildings, as
provided in sections 466—472.
§ 4987. The county court may-appropriate moneys as fol
lows:
1. For the payment of jurors.
2. For the payment of the costs of criminal prosecutions,
chargeable, by law, to the county.
3. For the support of the poor, lunat-ies, and idiots.
4. For the burial expenses of any poor person dying in the
county, leaving no means to pay for the same.
5. For the purchase of record books for the use of the
county, circuit, and chancery court clerks, and the county
register.
_ 6. To pay solicitors, sheriﬂs, and clerks, for ex oﬁicio ser
Vices.
7. To pay clerks for making out tax lists.
8. To pay count judge or chairman for his services as
ﬁnancial agent of t e county.
9. To pay county judge for other services.
10. To pay commissioners for settling with the oﬂieers
intrusted with the collection of the ublic or county re-venue.
11. For building, repairing, andJ taking care of court
houses, jails, and other county buildings.
12. For purchasing tools for overseers of roads.
13. To erect stray pens.
14. For weights and measures.
15. For building bridges.
No county court of this State shall appropriate any mone 's
to repair or build any bridges on chartere turnpike roa s,
who charge and collect toll.
16. To compensate a justice of the peace and ofﬁcers con
cerned in the arrest and examination of a person charged
with a felony, as provided in this Code.
17. For compensation of assessor and clerk for making out
statement of the strength of militia.
§ 4988. But not for any other purpose, unless specially pro
vided for by law. No money shall be drawn out of the county
treasury except upon a warrant signed by the chairman of the
county court, or by the county judge, where provided for.
§ 4989. The quarterly county courts of this State are an
thorized (but not required) to employ a competent person to
superintend the construction and repair of such county build
ings, bridges, levees, etc., as may be necessary; said superin
tendent to be paid such salary as may be agreed upon, out of
the county treasury, but no contract to continue longer than
twelve months.
§ 4990. The county court is authorized and empowered, the
same being a county purpose, to build, or assist in building, or in
obtaining within the corporate limits of a municipal corpora
tion which is the county seat of such county, a free bridge over
and across any river running through and dividing said muni
cipality and county; said bridge shall be located upon or near
and convenient to a public hi hway traversin the county,
due regard being had both to t e advantages 0 location and
convenience of the citizens of the county having to pass over
the same; and shall be forever free to all persons, vehicles
and stock which may pass over the same, and shall be ke t
up and maintained by the municipality within which it is
located. Such bridge shall be paid for by a special tax, not to
exceed in any year the amount of the State tax, to be levied
by the said county court annually on all the. taxables of the
county; but the court may pay for such bridge out of any
moneys or'funds in the county treasury not otherwise appro
priated, or by the sale of any stocks or bonds held and owned ,
by the county, and which may be sold or negotiated for the
purpose of said payment.
§ 4991. Each of the circuit courts shall continue until the
. . . . .
buslness of the term is dispatched, unless the judge is sooner
com elled to leave in order to arrive in time at the next suc
ceeding court of the circuit. But in no case, after the trial
of a cause is commenced, shall the judge adjourn the court
until the cause is tried, except in cases where the jury can
not agree, or, from some other cause, a mis-trial is ordered.
§ 4992. It is the duty of the circuit judge to attend and
hold his court at the time a pointed by law; but if, for any
reason, he fails to appear, t e clerk ma open and adjourn
the court. for the ﬁrst three days of tie term; and if no
judge attend by four o’clock on the fourth day of the term,
the court shall be adjourned by the clerk to the court in
course. ‘
§ 4993. All recognizances, process, and other proceedings,
returnable to the term, and not acted upon by the clerk
under the provisions of this Code, shall be considered as returnable
to the next succeeding term.
§ 4994. If. from any cause, the court is not held on any day
of the term after it has been opened, there shall be no dis-
continuance, but, so soon as the cause is removed, the court
may proceed to business as before.
§ 4995. None of the proceedings pending in the circuit
courts of this State shall be discontinued by the non-attend
ance of the judge at any term, or his death at any time;
but, in such cases, all matters depending shall stand con
tinued to the next succeeding term.
§ 4996. The non-attendance of the circuit jud e shall not
prevent the parties from making up their plea ings in the
appearance causes.
§ 4997. The circuit courts of this State are courts of general
jurisdiction, and the judges thereof shall administer right
and justice according to law, in all cases where the jurisdic
tion is not conferred upon another tribunal.
§ 4998. They have exclusive original jurisdiction of all pleas
of the State for crimes and misdemeanors, either at common
law or by statute, unless otherwise expressly provided by this
Code.
§ 4999. They have exclusive jurisdiction to try and deter-
mine all issues made up to contest the validity of last wills
and testaments.
§ 5000. They have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and deter-
mine applications to be restored to citizenship, made by per-
sons who have been rendered infamous by the judgment of
any court of this State.
§ 5001. 'They have jurisdiction to enter judgments on awards
of arbitrators, and to hear and determine agreed cases.
§ 5002. The circuit courts have jurisdiction concurrent with
justices of the peace, to the extent of the jurisdiction of the
latter, of all debts and demands on contract over ﬁfty dollars.
§ 5003. They have concurrent jurisdiction with the count
courts, to change and alter the names of persons, to legiti
mate children, and to. authorize the adoption of children.
§ 5004. They have concurrent jurisdiction with chancery
courts to grant divorces, to release testamentary and other
trustees, and to appoint trustees in place of those released or
dead, and also to decree on petitions of trustees, by will or
otherwise, for the sale of property, real 0r personal.
§ 5005. They have concurrent jurisdiction with chancery
and county courts to allot dower, to make partition and dis
tribution, and, for this purpose, to sell property, real or per
sonal, if necessary, or manifestly to the interest of the par
ties; and to sell land to pay debts of decedents where the
personal assets are insuﬁicient.
§ 5006. They have an appellate jurisdiction of all suits and
actions, of whatsoever nature or description, instituted before
any inferior jurisdiction, Whether brought before them by
appeal, certiorarz', or in any other manner prescribed by law.
§ 5007. They are clothed with all the powers of the chancery
court to abate nuisances, in an action brought for recovery
of damages resulting from a nuisance, upon the ﬁnding of a
jury that the subject-matter of complaint is a nuisance, and
judgment entered thereon.
§ 5008. Any suit of an equitable nature, brou ht in the
circuit court, Where objection has not been taken y demur
rer to the jurisdiction, may be transferred to the chancery
court of the county or district, or heard and determined by
the circuit court, upon the principles of a court of equity,
with power to order and take all proper accounts, and other
wise to perform the functions of a chancery court.
§ 5009. They may make all such rules of practice as may
be deemed expedient, consistent with law, and may revise
the same as often as thought proper.
§ 5010. The declaration of the plaintiff shall be ﬁled within
the ﬁrst three days of the term to which the writ is return
able; otherwise the suit may, upon motion of the defendant,
be dismissed at plaintiﬂ’s cost.
§ 5011. The defendant shall appear and demur or plead
within the ﬁrst two days after the time allotted for ﬁling the
declaration, otherwise the plaintiff may have judgment by
default.
§ 5012. The plaintiff and defendant shall, within the ﬁrst
two days after each subsequent step taken by the other in
making up an issue, demur or plead thereto, on penalty of
having the suit dismissed, or judgment taken by default, ac
cording as the failure is by the plaintiﬁ' or defendant.
§ 5013. The court may, however, enlarge the time for plead
ing, 11 on application of either party, in proper cases, or ex
cuse t e failure to plead within the time prescribed, upon
good cause shown.
§ 5014. In cases where either party appears in person, and
the cause of action is founded upon a specialty, note, or
liquidated account, signed by the party to be charged, the
cause may be tried in a summary way, W1thout pleadings in
writing.
§ 5015. A demurrer stands for argument at the term at which
it is ﬁled.
§ 5016. If the demurrer of the defendant is overruled, a writ
of inquiry is awarded and returned at the same term, unless
good cause for continuance be shown.
§ 5017. Continuances are regulated by the provisions of sec
tions 3651-3655, and may aIWays be granted by the court,
upon good cause shown, in any stage of the action, for argu
ment or trial.
§ 5018. The plaintiff may, at any time during the pendency
of an action, dismiss as to any one or, more of the defend
ants, and proceed against the others.
§ 5019. A general verdict, although it may not in terms
answer every issue joined, is nevertheless held to embrace
every'issue, unless exception is taken at the term at which
the verdict is rendered.
§ 5020. If the verdict, in an action for speciﬁc personal
property, omit to ﬁnd the value of the articles, the court may
~ award a writ of inquiry to ascertain the value.
§ 5021. If, however, on an issue embracing several articles,
the verdict be for part only, it is not error, but the title or
claim to those articles omitted is barred.
§ 5022. The chancery courts shall continue to, have all the
powers, privileges and jurisdiction properly and rightfully
incident to a court of equity, by existing laws.
§ 5023. They have exclusive original jurisdiction of all cases
of an equitable nature, where the debt or demand exceeds ﬁfty
dollars, unless otherwise provided by this Code. _
§ 5024. They have no jurisdiction of any debt or demand
of less value than ﬁfty dollars.
§ 5025. They have exclusive jurisdiction to aid a creditor
by judgment or decree, to subject the property of the de
fendant which cannot be reached by execution, to the satis
fillctign of the judgment or decree, under the provisions of
t e ode.
§ 5026. The creditor, whose execution has been returned
unsatisﬁed in whole or in part, may ﬁle a bill in chancery
against the defendant in the execution, and any other person
or corporation, to compel the discovery of any property, in
cluding stocks, choses in action, or money due to such de
fendant, or held in trust for him, except when the trust has
been created by, or the property so held has proceeded from
some person other than the defendant himself, and the trust
is declared by will duly recorded, or deed duly registered.
§ 5027. The court has power to com oi the discovery, and
to prevent the transfer, payment, or deiivery of the property,
and to subject the same to the satisfaction of the jud cut
or decree, whether such property could, if in the defendant’s
possession, or with the title vested in him, be levied upon by
execution or not.
§ 5028. The court is empowered, also, to order all such
bonds and other instruments to be executed by either the
complainant or defendant, and all such transfers to be made,
as may be necessary to carry the jurisdiction into complete
eﬁ'ect. 
§ 5029. The creditor has a lien upon the
ﬁling of his bill, but he may acquire a lien rom the rendition
of the judgment or decree, by causing a memorandum thereof,
Within sixty days from its rendition, to be re istered as pro
Vided in sections 3698, 3699, and by ﬁling his bill within thirty
days from the return of the execution unsatisﬁed.
§ 5030. In all cases where personal service of process cannot
be made at law, and where no original attachment at law will
lie, and no judgment at law can be obtained, and also in
cases where the demand is purely of an equitable nature, the
court of chancery has jurisdiction to subject legal and equita
ble interests in every kind of property, with the exception
stated in § 5026, the lien to commence from the ﬁling of the
bill, if the facts are veriﬁed by afﬁdavit, andinjunction granted.
§ 5031. Any creditor, without ﬁrst having obtained a judg
ment at law, may ﬁle his bill in chancery for himself, or for
himself and other creditors, to set aside fraudulent convey
ances of property, or other devices resorted to for the pur
pose of hindering and delaying creditors, and subject the
property, by sale or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the debt.
§ 5032. Upon ﬁlinv the bill, writs of attachment and injunc
tion may be grantet , on complainants giving bond and secur
ity in such sums as the chancellor or judge may order, con
ditioned to comply with the orders and decrees of the court,
and to pay such damages as may be awarded, or recovered
for wrongfully suing out such attachment or injunction.
§ 5033. If the bill is ﬁled by one creditor for himself and
others, the other creditors may make themselves parties at
any time before ﬁnal decree, by petition, agreeing to join in
the bonds required in the case, and giving bond, with good
security, to the original complainant, and in a sufﬁcient pen
alty, to pay their proportional part of the recovery on such
bonds,
§ 5034. The court has the same power and jurisdiction in
all respects to set aside fraudulent conveyances and other
fraudulent devices, in the cases mentioned in the last three sections, and to subject the property, by sale or otherwise,
to the payment of debts, as if the creditor had obtained
judgment, and execution thereon had been returned unsat
istied.
§ 5035. And in case the com lainant fails to 'establish the
fraud, the court shall procee to render jud cut on his
claim, ascertaining the amount, when dispute , by reference
to the clerk and master, or by an issue to be tried by a jury.
But the plaintiff shall pay all costs, except such as are inci
dent to taking the judgment. 1
ll Heis.. 728.
§ 5036. In no case shall the limitation of actions be held to
commence running in favorof a fraudulent or voluntary pos~
sessor, until the creditor to be affected by the fraudulent or
voluntary conveyance, has a right of action to test the va
lidity of such conveyance.
§ 5037. The creditors of a corporation may also, without
ﬁrst having obtained. a judgment at law, ﬁle a bill in the
court of chancery, to attach the property of the corporation,
and subject the same. by sale or otherwise, to the satisfaction
of their debts, when the corporate franchises are not used, or
have been granted to others in whole or in part.
§ 5038. In such cases the court may appoint a receiver, take
an account of the affairs of the corporation, and apply the
property and effects to the payment of debts pro rain, and
divide the surplus, if any, among the stockholders.
§ 5039. Courts of chancery have power to hear and deter
mine all controversics between the State and incorporated
companies, their stockholders or creditors, growing out of
the internal improvement laws of this State, upon bill ﬁled
by the attorney general on behalf of the State.
§ 5040. When a judgment has been recovered in any other
State against a resident of such State, and the creditor has
exhausted his legal remedy, the real or personal property of
the debtor in this State, may be subjected to the satisfaction
of such debt, by bill stating the facts under oath. and ﬁled in
the court of the district in which the property is situated.
§ 5041. The chancery court has jurisdiction, concurrent with
the county court, over the persons and estates of idiots, luna
tics and other persons of unsound mind.
§ 5042. It has also jurisdiction, concurrent with the county
court, of the persons and estates of infants, and of the ap
pointment and removal of uardians. '
§ 5043. It shall have an exercise concurrent jurisdiction
with the circuit court of all civil actions, triable at law, ex
cept for injuries to person, property or character, involving
unliquidated damages.
§ 5044. The court of chancery has jurisdiction, concurrent
with courts of law, for the abatement and recovery of usury,
and jurisdiction, concurrent with the circuit court, of all pro
ceedings for divorce.
§ 5045. It has jurisdiction, concurrent with the circuit and
county courts, of proceedings for the partition or sale of es
tates by personal representatives, guardians, heirs, or tenants
in common; for the sale of land at the instance of the cred
itors of the decedent, if the property is insufﬁcient to satisfy
the debts of the estate; and for the allotment of dower.
§ 5046, The court of chancer has jurisdiction, concurrent
with all other judicial tribuna s of the State, of arbitration
and agreed cases under the provisions of this Code.
§ 5047, The court of chancery may, concurrently with the
county court, appoint an administrator of a decedent’s estate
six months after the decedent’s death, where no person can
be procured to administer in the usual way, as provided in §§ 3050-3060.
§ 5048. The court of chancery acts ordinarily in pcrsonam,
and suit may be instituted wherever the defendant or any
material defendant is found, unless otherwise prescribed by
law.
§ 5049. Counterpart summons, accompanied by copies of
the bill, may be issued to any other counties of the State for
defendant not to be found in the county in which the suit is
properly brought.
§ 5050. In like manner, if the suit is properly instituted,
attachments, injunctions, and all other process known to the
court, and necessary to attain the ends of justice, may be
issued to any other county. ' .
§ 5051. Any cause pending in the chancery court may be
- transferred, by consent of parties, to the chancery court of
another district.
§ 5052. The jurisdiction of the court of chancery in which
suit is brought, can only be resisted by plea in abatement,
demurrer, or motion to dismiss.
§ 5053. The court of chancery has jurisdiction in all cases
for the performance of covenants and collateral conditions
against the sureties in an obligation, when it has jurisdiction
against the principal.
§ 5054. The local jurisdiction of the court of chancery is,
also, subject to the following rules:
1. The bill may be ﬁled in the chancery district in which
the defendant or a material defendant res1des; and if, upon
inquiry at his residence, he is not to be found, he may he
proceeded against by publication or judicial attachment, as
erein provided. '
2. All bills ﬁled in any court seeking to divest or clear up
the title to land, or to enforce the speciﬁc execution of con
tracts relating to realty, or to foreclose a mortgage or deed
of trust by a sale of personal property or realty, shall be
ﬁled in the county in which the land or a material part of it
lies, or in which the deed of mortgage is registered.
3. Bills seeking to enjoin proceedings at law may be ﬁled
in the district in which the suit is pending, or to which exe
cution has issued.
4. Bills against non-residents, 0r ersons Whose names or :
residences are unknown, may be ﬁle in the district in which w
the cause of action arose, or the act on which the suit is
predicated was to be performed, or in which the subject of
the suit or any material part thereof is.
5. Whenever attachment of pro erty is allowed in lieu of A
personal service of I‘OCL'SS, the bil may be ﬁled in the coun-
t or district in w icli the property or any material part
t ereof sought to be "attached, is found at the commence
ment of the suit.
§ 5055. Suits are commenced in the court of chancery by
bill or petition, addressed to the chancellor of the division in
which the same is ﬁled, specifying the particular court in
which it is ﬁled, or by motion in open court, where that mode
of procedure is allowed by law.
§ 5056. The address should be followed by the names and
residences of the parties, and may be substantially as follows:
“ To the Honorable H. J. L., Chancellor, etc., holding the
Chancery Court at —— :
A. 13., citizen of —, complainant,
I in either the bill or answer.
vs.
0.1). and E. F,, citizens of —, defendants,
The complainant respectfully shows to the court.”
§ 5057. The bill should contain a clear and orderly statement
of the facts on which the suit is‘founded, without prolixity
or repetition, and conclude with a prayer‘for the required
process and appropriate relief, without averring any formal
combination or confederacy by the defendants or others, the
insufﬁciency of the remedy at law, or other mere formal
matter.
§ 4058. The answer should, in like manner, contain a clear
and orderly statement of the facts on which the defense is
founded, without prolixity or repetition, and with a prayer of
dismissal or counter relief, according to the nature of the
case.
§ 5059. It is the duty of the court. to discountenance pro
. . . .
liXity, and unnecessary and false allegations, in all ehancery
pleading; and for this purpose the court may, of its own
motion, or upon application of the opposite party, refer the
pleadings to the master to be revise , or order particular
parts to be stricken out, and charge the party in fault with
the unnecessary costs.
§ 5060. The plaintiff may, in his bill, waive an answer from
the defendant under oath, in which case the answer will be
entitled to no more weight than the bill as evidence.
§ 5061. The defendant may incorporate all matters of de
fense in his answer, and is.no_t required to plead specially in
any case, except to the Jurisdiction of the court.
§ 5062. Neither is he required to demur, except for the want
of jurisdiction of the subject matter, or of the person, but
he may have all the beneﬁt of a demurrer by relying thereon
in his answer.
§ 5063. And either party may, upon such answer, set down
the matters of demurrer for argument at the next term of
the court, but not so as to prevent preparing the cause for a
hearing; and the court may charge the defendant With any
costs occasioned by the failure to rely upon the formal plea
or demurrer, or to set down the same at the proper time.
§ 5064:. The ﬁling of an answer is a waiver of objection to
the jurisdiction of the cdurt, andthe cause will not be dis- 5m“
missed, but heard and determined upon its merits, although
the court may be of opinion that the matters complained of
are of legal cognizance.
§ 5065. No replication or other pleadin , after answer ﬁled,
is required or allowed, but all cases will die heard as if repli
cation had been ﬁled, unless set for hearing expressly on bill
and answer.
§ 5066. The defendant may, by proper allegations, ﬁle his
answer as a cross-bill, and require a discovery from the com
plainant, in which case demurrer or pleas may be ﬁled. or
other proceedings had upon the answer as upon a cross-bill.
§ 5067. And the court shall act upon all the matters prop
erly involved in the pleadings; and give such relief, either
for the plaintiff or defendant, as the nature of the ease re
quires, to do complete justice.
§ 5068. Multifariousness, misjoinder, or nonjoinder of ar
tles, is no sufﬁcient cause for the dismissal of a bil in
equity, unless objection is made by motion to dismiss or de
murrer.
§ 5069. If a demurrer for multifariousness is sustained, the
court may authorize amendments, by directing separate bills
to be ﬁled Without new process as to the parties before the
court, and by the addition of new parties, or otherwise, as
may be deemed necessary for the attainment of justice.
§ 5070. The uniting in one bill of several matters of equity,
distinct and unconnected, against one defendant, is not mul
tifariousness.
§ 5071. If the plaintiff do not except to the answer within
the time prescribed by law, the issue shall be regarded as
made in the same way as if replication had been ﬁled, and
the cause shall stand for trial at the ﬁrst term of the court
after answer ﬁled; and if at hat or any other term the cause
is continued, it shall stand for hearing at the next term.
§ 5072. Bills in chancery may be ﬁled at any time, in term
or vacation.
§ 5073. Bills required to be under oath, may be sworn to in
the State, before any judge, clerk of a court, justice of the
peace or notary public, whose attestation shall be deemed
evidence of the fact.
§ 5074. They may be sworn to out of the State, before a
notary public, or a commissioner for this State, W‘hose attes
tation shall be accompanied by his seal of ofﬁce; or before a
judge or justice of the peace of the State, whose ofﬁcial char
acter shall be attested by the clerk of the court in which the
judge presides, or by clerk of the county court in the case of
a justice of the peace.
§ 5075. The complainant may amend his bill before the de
fendant has taken out, or the clerk issued a copy thereof, and
in small matters not aﬁecting the merits, afterwards, without
costs.
§ 5076. Material amendments may be made as of course,
without application to the chancellor, after copy of bill has
been issued or taken out, and before defendant has made de
fense, upon complainant paying the costs of furnishing a copy
of the amendment to such of the defendants as have received
or taken out copies of the original bill, and of the notice to
be served upon all the defendants of such amendment;
amendments may also be made after demurrer and before ar
gument thereof, upon the same terms.
§ 5077. In all other cases the complainant can amend his
bill only by leave of the chancellor given in open court, and
upon such terms as he may impose.
§ 5078. But the court may, at any stage of the cause, even
after argument, if it be thought necessary to justice, permit
amendments of the bill, upon such terms as may appear
reasonable.
§ 5079. In all cases where an} amendment of the bill is made
after answer ﬁled, and an answer thereto is necessary, the
defendants are allowed thirty days after the order, or aﬁaer
notice of the amendment, if notice is required by the order,
to answer, and failing so to do, or to obtain further time, the
matter of amendment may be taken as confessed, subject,
however, to be set aside by the master before the cause is set
for hearing, or by the chancellor at any time, on good cause
sh own, accompanied by a. full and suﬂicient answer, and upon
such terms as may be imposed, ,
§ 5080. If the defendant at the hearing object for want of
parties, not having previously taken the objection by plea,
answer, or demurrer, the court may render a decree saving
the rights of the parties not before it, or grant leave to amen
on terms not extending beyond the payment of costs.
§ 5081. No objection for the misjoinder of parties, plaintiff,
or defendant, shall be taken at the hearing, but the court, in
such case, shall decree upon the merits. 
§ 5082. Upon the bill being ﬁled, and the. required security
iven, the clerk, after endorsing upon the bill the date of the
ﬁling, and entering the cause in his rule docket, shall forth
with issue subpcena to answer, and cop of the bill for the
dwardant, and all other process orders .
§ 5083. The form of subpoena may be substantially as fol-
tows :
STATE or Tnsnsssss,
County.
To the Sheriff of County:
Summon . to a pear on or before the day of
next, before the c ancery court at , to answer
the bill of , and have you then and there this writ.
This day of , 18—. E. F., C. and M.
§ 5084. The clerk issues only one subpoena to each county
embracing therein all the defendants in such county.
4 Bax., 311.
§ 5085. The subpoena to the county in which the bill is ﬁled
shall be accompanied by one copy of the bill, to be delivered
to any one of the defendants named in the subptena.
§ 5086. The counterpart subptcna to any other county shall
be accompanied by a cop of the bill, to be delivered to some
one of the defendants w en the subpoena is served, and it
shall be the duty of the sheriff to read said copy to each one
of the defendants at the time he serves the subpoena. '
§ 5087. The clerk shall issue, upon demand, to any one of
the defendants, his a eat _or attorney to whom no copy of the
bill appears by the sheriff’s return to have been delivered, a
certiﬁed copy of the bill, to be charged in the bill of costs.
§ 5088. Attachments, injunctions and all other process. issued
to any one county, shall embrace the names of all the defend
ants required to be served therewith residing in such county.
§ 5089. The mode of service of such process, shall be by
reading the same to each defendant speciﬁed therein; and
if the defendant evade or attem t to evade the service of
such process, the ofﬁcer charged t erewith shall leave a copy
at the unsual residence of the defendant, which shall be a
sufﬁcient service.
§ 5090. The sheriﬁ' shall, with all reasonable speed, execute
all process issuing from the chancery court, and make due
return thereof according to law, and the requirements of the
process.
§ 5091. Original process may, by rule of court applicable to
the court where made, be returnable to the rule' days, and all
others except ﬁnal process may be so returnable.
See Chy. Rule 11, as to return of process. 1 Tenn. Chy., 61.
§ 5092. The return days of all other process in the chancery
court, such as subpoenas to answer supplemental and amended
bills, and hills of revivor, except ﬁnal process, shall be the
rule days of said court.
§ 5093. Service of the original subpmna on the defendant,
ﬁve days before the return day, shall bind him to a pear
within the ﬁrst three days of the term, if the court ho (1 so
long; otherwise on the ﬁrst day of the term.
§ 5094- But if the subpoena be served upon the defendant
within ﬁve days before the return day, he is not bound to ap-
pear before the ﬁrst day of the second term after the service.
§ 5095. Personal service of process on the defendant in the
court of chancery, is dispensed with in the following cases:
1. When the defendant is a non—resident of the State.
2. When, upon' inquiry at his usual place of abode, he can
not be found, so as to be served with process, and there is
just ground to believe that he is gone beyond the limits of
the State.
3. When the sheriff shall make return upon any leading
process, that he is not to be found.
4. When the name of the defendant is unknown and can
not be ascertained upon diligent inquir .
5. When the residence of the defen ant is unknown and
cannot be ascertained upon diligent inquiry.
6. When judicial and other attachments will lie, under the
provisions of this Code, against the property of the de
t'endant.
§ 5096. To dispense with process in either of the above
cases. the facts shall be stated under oath in the bill, or by
separate aﬂidavit, or appear by the return.
§ 5097. In such case, if the defendant does not cause his ap
pearance to \be entered, the clerk, as soon as the necessary
afﬁdavrt is made, shall enter upon the rule docket an order
requirlni the defendant to appear at a certain day therein
named, elng a rule day, and defend, or otherwise the bill
Will be taken for confessed. 
§ 5098. The clerk shall forthwith cause a copy of this order
to be published, for four consecutive weeks, in the newspaper
mentioned Ill such order, or designated by the general rules
of the court.
§ 5099. The order for publication in lieu of personal service,
may be made at any time after the an“? of the bill.
§ 5100 The order of ublication shou d contain the names
of the parties, the sty e of the court in which the proceed
in s are had, and the name of the place where the court is
he (1, Without any brief or abstract of facts, unless directed
by the court.
§ 5101. When the suit is against an unknown defendant the
order of publication should describe such unknown party, as
near as may be, by the character in which he is sued, and by
reference to his title or interest in the subject-matter of the
litigatlon.
§ 5102. Evidence of the publication in pursuance of the order,
may be by afﬁdavit of the printer, or actual productlon of
the newspaper in court.
§ 5103. If the defendant, u on whom process has been
served, fails to appear and efend in the time required by
law, the bill may be taken for confessed, or the complainant
may proceed by process of contempt to compel an answer.
§ 5104. The only process of contempt is an attachment,
which is issued upon order of the chancellor, at the instance
of the complainant, upon the return of the subpoena duly
served by the proper ofﬁcer, or aﬁidavit by him of such
servme.
§ 5105. The attachment may be made returnable to any rule
v ' ' ' ' '
(13) In ller 01‘ vacation, and upon ltS SOPVIOQ, ball may be
2:13; lfor the appearance of the defendant at the time ﬁxed
' 5106. If the defendant fails to appear in compliance with
the terms of his bail, a second attachment issues, upon
which no bail can be taken; and the penalty of the bail-bond
may be decreed, forfeited and collected by execution. '
§ 5107. If the defendant appears, and refuses to answer
fully, he shall be committed to jail, there to remain until he
purges himself of the contempt, and complies with the re
quirements of the law by ﬁling a full and complete answer.
§ 5108. After an attachment for contempt, no plea or de
murrer shall be received, unless by order of the court upon
motion.
§ 5109. If the defendant is committed for contempt, the
complainant may proceed with his action as if the bill had
been taken for confessed, the allegations being taken as in
all respects true. '
§ 5110. But, in that case, all further proceedings for the
contempt shall cease, and the court, or the judge thereof,
may discharge the defendant from custody.
§ 5111. Nothing in the foregoing sections shall deprive the
clerk and master, or the court, of the power of grantlug to
the defendant upon good cause shown, further time within
which to ﬁle answer.
§ 5112. The bill may be taken for confessed in the following
cases: ~
1. When, being duly served with process, as already pro
vided, the defendant fails to plead, answer, or demur by the
time ﬁxed by law.
2. When, an order for his appearance having been duly
made and published as above prescribed, the defendant fails to
cause his appearance to be thereupon entered, and to plead,
answer, or demur, or obtain time to answer.
3. When process of contempt having been returned exe
cuted, or the defendant having been brought into court upon
such process, he refuses to answer the plaintiﬁ"s bill, or puts
in an insufﬁcient answer, so adjudged by the court.
4. YVhen a plea or demurrer having been overruled, and
the defendant ordered to answer the bill, he fails so to do
upon a rule given.
5, When exceptions to an answer having been allowed by
the clerk and master, and the defendant or his solicitor noti
ﬁed thereof, and ordered to answer, the defendant fails to ﬁle
a sufﬁcient answer within thirty days, or to appeal from the
order of the master.
§ 5113. In the ﬁrst and second of the above cases, the cause
may be set for hearing at the return term of the process; in
the other three, at the next term after the bill is taken for
confessed.
§ 5114. Whenever an order, pro confesso is lawfully had, the
allegations in the bill are to be taken as admitted, except in
the case of infant defendants, persons of unsound mind, ex
ecutors, or administrators, bills for divorce, and bills, without
attachment of property, against non-residents, and persons
whose names or residences are unknown.
§ 5115. In the excepted cases of infants and persons of un
sound mind, the defendant shall appear b guardian or com
mittee before the complainant can procee with his cause.
§ 5116. In the other accepted cases, the complainant may
proceed as if the allegations of the bill had been put in issue
y answer not sworn to, with the right to set for hearing
forthwith.
§ 5117. And in such cases, when the testimony of witnesses
is required on behalf of the complainant, and the defendant
does not reside within the State, the complainant may take
depositions by interrogatories ﬁled ten days beforehand, or
by the usual notice of the time and place of taking, entered
on the rule docket.
§ 5118. A defendant, who has been served with process, may
at any time before ﬁnal decree, on good cause shown, obtain
from the chancellor, or clerk and master, an order setting
aside the decree pro confesso, upon ﬁling a full and sufﬁcient
answer and the payment of costs.
§ 5119. A non-resident defendant, or one whose name or
place of residence is unknown, and who is not served with
process, may appear and defend at any time before ﬁnal de
cree, as of course.
§ 5120. All other persons, as to whom personal service is
dispensed with under the provisions of sections 5095-5102
shall show merits in order to entitle them to appear and
defend after judgment by default.
§ 5121. Cases in chancery, brought by attachment of property,
under Chapter 10, Title 2, of this_Part of the Code, are gov
erned in respect to the effect of the decree pro confesso, by
the provisions of sections 3529-3534.
§ 5122. In all other cases, a decree against a defendant
WIthout personal service of process, who does not appear to
defend, is not absolute for three years from the decree, unless
a copy of the decree is served upon the defendant, in which
case it becomes absolute if the defendant fails to come 'for
ward and make defense within six months after service.
§ 5123. The death of the defendant proceeded against with
out personal servicc. whether the death occur before or after
the ﬁling of the bill, does not render the proceedings void,
but his heirs or representatives, as the case may be, have the
right, within three years from the rendition of the ﬁnal de
cree, to make themselves parties by petition, veriﬁed by aﬂi
dawt, showing merits, and contest. the complainant’s bill.
§ 5124. The original defendant, his heir, representative, or
assignee claiming under him by virtue of any act done before
the commencement of the suit, may, within six months after
service of a copy of the decree, or within three years after
the decree, be admitted to answer ,the bill, upon petition
showing merits, and iving security for the payment of costs;
and witnesses on hot sides may be examined, and such other
proceedings may be had thereon as if the cause were then
newly begun.

§ 5125. It is no objection to the execution of a decree ren
dered against a defendant, that it was founded on a bill taken 
for confessed, without personal service; but the court ma
require the complainant to give sufﬁcient security, in suc
sum as the court deems proper, to abide by and perform such
order touching the restitution of property, or repayment of
money, as the court may make, u on the defendant subse
quently setting aside the decree, an successfully resisting the
complainant’s suit. \
§ 5126. The decree, if executed before it is set aside under
any of the foregoing provisions, will be a protection to all
persons acting upon its validity, and will confer a good title
to all property sold under it.
§ 5128. After answer ﬁled, and no plea in abatement to the
local jurisdiction of the court, no exception for want of juris
diction shall afterwards be allowed.
§ 5129. A bill may be dismissed, on motion of the defend
ant—
]. For want of equity on its face.
:2. Because unknown to the forms of the court.
3. If it appear on the face of the bill that the court has no
jurisdiction of the person of the defendant.
4. For want of any of the prerequisites t0 the issuance of
the writ.
5. For misjoinder or non-joinder of
appears on the face of the bill.
6. For multifariousness.
7. For such other grounds as may be specially declared
sufﬁcient by this Code.
§ 5130. The power of the court to allow amendments, and
to permit the complainant to supply defects and omissions is
not affected by anything contained in the foregoing section
§ 5131. The ﬁrst, ﬁfth, and sixth causes of dismissal may also
he raised by demurrer, and when the misjoinder or nonjoinder
of parties does not appear on the face of the bill, the objec
tion may be made by plea.
§ 5132. T0 procure prompt dispatch of the business of the
court, the defendant may make a rule, in the clerk’s ofﬁce, on
his adversary to take any step necessary to the progress of
the cause, and the clerk shall give notice of this rule imme
diately to the party interested, or his counsel.
§ 5133. If the party upon whom such rule is made, fail to
take the necessary step, the chancellor, at the next term, un
less good cause be shown for the failure, shall make a er
emptory rule, ﬁxing the time within which the step shal be
taken, and if not so taken, the cause shall be dismissed.
§ 5134. N0 step taken by the defendant shall prevent him
from moving to dismiss for the default of the complainant.
§ 5135. The court may, however, upon good cause shown by
aﬁidavit, relieve the complainant from the conse uences of
his default, imposing such terms to hasten the hearing of the
cause, as in its discretion, may‘be thought just.
§ 5136. If the plaintiff conceives any plea or demurrer to be
naught, either for the matter or manner of it, he may set it
down with the clerk to be argued; or, if he thinks the plea
good but not true, he may ta e issue upon it, and proceed to
trial. If the plea be found false, the complainant shall have
the same advantages as if it had been so found by verdict at
common law.
§ 5137. A demurrer or a plea shall be set for argument at
the ﬁrst term.
§ 5138. Upon a plea or demurrer argued and overruled. no
other plea or demurrer shall be received,th the defendant
shal] answer the allegations of the bill; and, in case he fails to
do so by the next rule day, or by the time prescribed by the
court, the bill may be taken for confessed, or answer enforced
by contempt, as if no such plea or demurrer had been ﬁled.
§ 5139. After the return of an attachment for contempt in
refusin to answer, no plea or demurrer shall be received,
unless y order of court upon motion.
§ 5140. If a plea or demurrer be overruled, costs shall be
paid as where an answer is adjudged insuﬂicient ; but if a plea
or demurrer be adjudged good, the defendant shall have his
costs.
§ 5141. \thn an answer is re uired to be sworn to, the oath
may be administered in this tate by any judge, justice of
the peace, or clerk; and in another State by anyijudge or
justice of the peace, accompanied by a certiﬁcate 0 his ofﬁ
cial capacity by the clerk of the court in which such judge
or justice presides. The oath may also be administered in
another State by a commissioner of this State, appointed b '
the Governor, or by a notary public, whose attestation sha l
be under their seals of ofﬁce; in any foreign government he
fore any oﬁicer authorized to take probate of deeds, and
authenticated in like manner,
§ 5142. The ower of the court or clerk and master to a -
point a specia commissioner to administer the oath, either in
this or any other State, is not affected by the foregoing sec
tion.
§ 5143. When all-answer has been ﬁled, the clerk and master
shall notify the complainant’s solicitor of the fact, by letter
or otherwise, and he may, within twenty days, ﬁle exceptions
thereto.
§ 5144. If the plaintiff fail to except to the answer within
said time, the cause shall be at issue, and stand for trial at
the ﬁrst term after the answer is ﬁled.
§ 5145. Exceptions ﬁled shall be acted on by the clerk in ten
days, and if allowed, he shall, by letter or otherwise, notify
the defendant’s solicitor to ﬁle a sufﬁcient answer within
thirty days, from which order he may, within said time, ap
peal.
§ 5146. But if the defendant, in obedience to the order, ﬁle
an answer deemed suﬁicient by the clerk and master, he shall,
by letter or otherwise, notify the complainant’s solicitor of
the same, and he may appeal within twenty days after the
notice.
§ 5147. The chancellor may hear these appeals in vacation,
and the losing arty shall pay such costs as the chancellor
shall order, an abide by such other order as he may make on
the matter of the appeal, either in vacation or in term time.
§ 5148. Upon exceptions to a defendant’s answer being over
ruled, the complainant shall pay three dollars costs; and if
the exceptions are sustained, the defendant shall pay three
dollars; which, in each case, shall be paid to the opposite
party.
§ 5149. The parties may, pending the appeal on exceptions
proceed to take proof, and the testimony taken before the
suﬁiciency of the answer is determined, may be read on the
trial, and any additional testimony may be taken, rendered
necessary by the change of pleadings under the decision on
the exceptions. 
§ 515a. If the defendant, upon exceptions sustained to the
suﬁiciency of his answer, neglects and refuses to put in a suﬁi
eient answer, or shall put in another insufﬁcient answer, the
complainant may take his bill for confessed as to the part to
which his exceptions relate, and proceed with the cause as in
other cases.
§ 5151. When the defendant resorts to a cross-bill, he shall
ﬁrst answer the original bill, before he can require the com
plainant therein to answer his bill.
§ 5152. If the defendant ﬁle an answer by way of cross-bil..
he may waive the oath of the complainant to his answer
thereto.
§ 5153. The chancellors have power, as well in vacation as
in term time, to hear and determine all such motions, and to
make all such interlocutory orders and decrees in any suit,
as may be necessary or proper to prepare the case for ﬁnal
hearing and determination.
§ 154. And when an decree or order shall have been made
in any suit pending in the court, the chancellors, in like
manner, have power, as well in vacation as in term time, to
make such further orders, and to issue such writs and pro~
cess, as may be necessary to carry into effect such decree or
order.
§ 5155. But no such motion shall be heard, nor such decree
or order made in vacation, until reasonable notice shall have
been given the adverse party or his counsel to appear and
object.
§ 5156. The power conferred in the foregoing sections, ex
tends to the makin of rules and orders for the preparation
of suits, but not to t e making of decrees ordering accounts,
or such like decrees, ﬁxing or settling the rights of parties in
vacation.
§ 5157. The chancellors, as well in vacation as in term time.
have power to appoint commissioners to take accounts, where
the clerk and master is interested, or is unable to attend, or
in other cases where it may be deemed expedient.
§ 5158. They may also, in like manner, appoint persons to
serve original, mesne, or ﬁnal process, in particular cases,
under special application.
§ 5159. The chancellor may also, as well in vacation as in
term time (but if in vacation, on reasonable notice to the op- 1n
posite part ), regulate and control all proceedings in the
master’s o ee, and, for good cause shown, may set aside,
modify or alter, any such proceedings, upon such terms as
may appear e uitable.
§ 5160. In al cases in which the chancellor of the division
in which an cause is pendin , shall be incompetent, the
chancellor 0 any adjoming ivision shall have the same
power, in vacation, to make all such orders and decrees, issue
all such process and dissolve, restore or modify injunctions,
to appoint receivers, and do and erfo'rm any other duty that
may now be performed by the c ancellor of the division, as
provided herein; but notice of such application shall be the
same as to time and place as is prescribed for taking deposi
tions.
§ 5161. The party making much application shall state, by
afﬁdavit, that the chancellor is incompetent.
§ 5162. Rules, notices, orders and other proceedings in a
cause, made with or by the clerk and master, shall be entered
by him in awell-bound book, to be kept for the purpose, each
entry to be made in order, and with the correct dates at
tached.
§ 5163. Such rules, notices and proceedings, shall be made
at the rule days, unless otherwise authorized by this Code.
§ 5164. All rules or orders taken at any one court, shall be
inserted in such rule docket, by the ﬁrst rule day,being more
than twenty days after such term.
§ 5165. The clerk and master may, at his ofﬁce-—
1. Receive and enter on the rules the suggestion and proof
of a party’s death, and order and issue the necessary process
to revive.
'2. Make orders for publication :1 ainst defendants, in cases
in which publication is allowed in gen of personal service.
3. Take bills for confessed, and set aside the orders pro
confesso, upon good cause shown, and the ﬁling of a suﬂicient
answer.
4. Appoint guardians ad litem for infants, upon its being
made to appear by aﬁidavit that they have no general guar
dian.
5. Make orders for the taking 'of depositions, where such
orders are necessary.
6. Open causes for proof, on good causé shown, after they
have been set for hearing, in the same way the chancellor
might do.
7. Do and perform other acts at oﬁice, and make other
rules authorized by law.
§ 5166. Each day of the term of the court of chancery, and
the ﬁrst Monday of every month in vacation, is 'a rule day.
§ 5167. The clerk and master shall give to the opposite party,
or his solicitor, notice of the ﬁling of an answer.
§ 5168. The clerk and master shall also give to the opposite
party, or his solicitor, notice of any rule, order, or other pro
ceeding taken at his ofﬁce. aﬂ'ecting such party.
§ 5169. The clerk and master shall not set aside, modify, or
alter any rule or order of the chancellor, where such power
is given by this Code, or any rule or order of his own at
oﬂicc, without reasonable notice to the opposite party, or his
solicitor.
§ 5170. Upon the death of a defendant, or marriage of a fe
male defendant, the suit may be revived by scire facias or
notice to the heirs, or personal representatives, or husband,
without the necessity of ﬁling a bill of revivor.
§ 5171. The clerk and master shall issue this scire facias or
notice, at any time, upon motion of the complainant, enter
ing the same upon his rules, and including in each writ issued
to any county, all the parties residing in that county.
§ 5172. Persons made defendants under these sections, may
make the same defense to the revival of such suits, as if
made parties by the former practice of the courts of chancery.
§ 5173. The scire facias need only ive the names of the
parties, and recite the ﬁling of the bil , endency of the suit,
and death or marriage, as the case may e, and thereupon re
quire the parties against whom it is issued, to appear and show
cause why the suit should not be revived.
§ 5174. Bills of revivor, amended, and supplemental bills, if
resorted to, may be ﬁled at any time in the clerk’s ofﬁce; and °‘
the process may be made returnable, and the suit revived at
a ru e da .
§ 5175. The complainant may specially set a cause for hear
ing on bill and answer. ~
§ 5176. In all other cases it is the duty of the clerk and
master to set' all causes at issue for hearing, and transfer
them to the trial docket.
§ 5177. All causes are at issue, without replication ﬁled, if
the plaintiff fail to except to the answer of the defendant
within the time prescribed by law, and shall stand for trial
at the ﬁrst term of the court after answer ﬁled, and at every
term thereafter, if not then heard.
§ 5178. The clerk shall keep a memorandum book, in which
shall be noted every subpoena for witnesses, commissions,
with the day of issuance, and any other proceedings of the
clerk not entered on hisrecords, rule docket or minutes; and
such memorandum book shall be open for parties or their
attorneys to make such memorandums for the direction of
the clerk, as may be necessary.
§ 5179. Injunctions, attachments, writs of ne-exeat, and
other extraordinary process are granted by the chancellors,
circuitjud es, and judges of criminal and special courts.
§ 5180. 0 such extraordinary process shall be granted, un
less the party applying therefor state in his bill or petition
that it is the ﬁrst application for such process.
§ 5181. No judge or chancellor shall grant an injunction to
’ stay the sale of real estate conveyed by deed of trust or
mortgage, with a power of sale executed .to secure the pay
ment of loaned money, unless complainant gives twenty
days’ notice to the trustee or mortgagee of the time when,
place Where, and of the judge or chancellor-before whom,
said application for injunction is to be made, and no judge or
chancellor shall act upon the said application unless the same
is accompanied by proof, evidenced by return of a sheriff,
constable or attorney, that said notice has been served on the
said trustee or mortgagee, or he is not to be found in the
_ county of his usual place of residence, or is a non-resident.
§ 5182. In order that the complainant may have time to give
the required notice, the sale of the property so conveyed,
shall be advertised at least thirty days, and the sale shall be
postponed until the judge or chancellor acts upon the appli
cation for injunction and makes his orders in the matter.
§ 5183. The party applying for relief in the cases aforesaid,
shall distinctly state how, when and to whom, the debt or
any part of the debt secured aforesaid has been paid, or any
circumstances of fraud which vitiate the contract.
§ 5184. After the reading of the bill in the heariu of the
trustee or mort agee. if he choose to appear before t 1e judge
or chancellor, t c said trustee or mortgagee may have the
right to a delay of proceedings not more than ten days, during
w ich time he may ﬁle his answer before the same judge or
chancellor.
§ 5185. The jud e or chancellor shall then upon such bill and
answer, hear sai cause, at chambers, as upon motion to dis
solve the injunction, his decision being authenticated by a
written decree, which decree, to ether with the bill, answer
and exhibits, shall be enclosed In a sealed envelope, to the
clerk of the court in which the bill is ﬁled: said decree to
constitute a part of the record in the cause, in conformity to
the terms of which, said clerk may take bonds from either
party, or execute any other order as adjudged in said decree.
§ 5186. If any application is made for such process and re
fused, no other application shall be granted, except by the
court in which the bill is ﬁled.
§ 5187. When an application is refused, the ofﬁcer to whom
the same is made, shall endorse his refusal on the bill, and
sign his name thereto; and any one erasing such endorsement
is guilty of, and may be punished as for, defacing a record.
§ 5188. It is the duty of the judge, upon granting the ﬂat, to
envelope the bill and ﬁat under seal, and direct to the clerk
of the court in which the bill is ﬁled,who alone is authorized
to open the package.
§ 5189. Before issuing the writ of injunction, the clerk and
master shall take from the complainant, besides the usual
bond for the prosecution of the suit, a bond conditioned, ac
cording to the object of the bill, as follows:
. When judgment at law has been obtained, the condition
of the bond shall be to pay the amount of the judgment at
law, with interest, damages and costs, or to perform the de
cree of the court, in case the injunction is dissolved, and also
to pay such damages as may be sustained by the wrongful
suing out of the injunction.
2. \Vhen, beforejudgment at law, the investigation of the
questions involved has been drawn by injunction into the
court of chancery, upon the ground of a concurre'ntjurisdic
tion in that court, the condition of the bond shall be to pay
costs and damages awarded by the chancery court on dis
missing the bill.
§ 5190. The penalty of the bond shall be as follows:
If the object is to enjom a money demand after judgment,
in double the judgment or sum sought to be enjoined.
In all other cases in such sum as the court shall order.
In the absence of any order, in the sum of ﬁve hundred
dollars.
§ 5191. Whenever the security is t0.he taken in any other
county than that in which the court is held, the clerk and
master may appoint a commissioner in the county where se
curity is to be taken, to judge of the sufﬁciency of the bond
and security, 'and to take the same as he himself might do.
§ 5192. The dama es may be ascertained by the court in
which the cause is ieard, and injunction dissolved, upon ref
erence to the clerk and master, and proof, or upon an issue of
fact, to be made up and tried as in other cases of issues of
fact, if the parties elect to have a jury.
§ 5193. If the defendant evade, or attempt to evade, the ser
vice of the injunction, it shall be the duty of the ofﬁcer to
leave a copy at the defendant’s residence, and state the facts
in his return, which shall be deemed a sufﬁcient service.
§ 5194. A defendant may mdve to dissolve or modify an in
junction in vacation before the chancellor of the division in
which the bill is ﬁled, either for want of equity in the bill or
upon the comin in of the answer, to be heard upon certiﬁed
copies of the hil , or bill and answer; but ﬁve days’ notice of
such application shall be given to the plaintiff or his solicitor.
§ 5195. A motion to dissolve an injunction may be made at
any time upon answer, or for want of equity on the face of
the bil .
§ 5196. If there are exceptions to the sufﬁciency of the
answer a motion to dissolve injunction upon the answer shall
not be entertained until the exceptions are disposed of unless
the court should be of the opinion that the matters of excep
tion would not affect the motion. '
§ 5197. Upon the dissolution of an injunction to stay pro
ceedings on a judgment for money, in whole or in part, the
decree interlocutory or ﬁnal shall be entered against the com
plainant and his sureties for such amount as the court may
order, and the clerk and master shall issue executions thereon.
§ 5198. Wherever, by interlocutory order or decree, the in
junction to stay proceedings on ajudgment at law for money
is dissolved, the chancellor shall require of the defendant a
refundin bond in double the amount of the sum allowed
to be cc lected, payable to the opposite party, and condi
tioned to refund the amount collected, if so ordered on ﬁnal
hearing; and the court may render a decree upon such bond,
against any or all of the parties thereto.
§ 5199. The court has power, upon ﬁnal decree, to order the
property which may have been attached to be delivered to
the party entitled, and, in case of failure, that the persons
liable upon original replevy, or delivery bonds, shall pay all
or such portion of the penalty as the court may order. Or,
where the property is not forthcoming in conformity to the
ﬁnal decree, the court may enter judgment on motion, and
execution may issue thereon for the whole, or any portion
of the penalty, as the court may direct, against all or any
of the parties thereto.
§ 5200. Chancellors may, as well in vacation as in term, ex
amine the proceedings under extraordinary process upon the
answer of the defendant, or upon petition and afﬁdavit, and
dischar e or reduce any levy or bond, reasonable notice of
the app ication being given to the other side.
§ 5201. Receivers may be appointed by the chancellors or
circuit judges in vacation, upon reasonable notice of the
time and place of such application, and of the person before
whom it will be made, or good cause shown why such notice
should not be 'ven.
§ 5202. The c erk and master, when so directed by the order
of the judge or chancellor, shall take bond and security from
the receiver, or the complainant, conditioned for the faithful
discharge of the duties of the receiver.
§ 5203. The provisions of this article will ap ly to all cases
in any 'of the courts in which the extraor inary process
herein provided for may be resorted to. 
§ 5204. The rules of evidence as to the competency of wit
nesses, and the methods of obtaining testimony, are the same
in courts of chancery as in the other courts of this State, ex
cept so far as they may be altered by the express provisions
of this Code.
§ 5205. In all causes in chancery, except divorce causes, the
testimony of witnesses shall be taken in writing without
compelling their personal attendance. In divorce causes
either party ma ' examine the witnesses in open court, or take
their proof by epositions as in other cases.
§ 5206. The complainant may take testimony at any time
after answer ﬁled, or after a decree pro confesso, and the de
fendant at any time after ﬁling a suﬂicient answer.
§ 5207. Whenever a cause in the chancery court is con
tinued by either party to the suit, it shall be open for proof
or the taking of depositions generally, without the necessity
of an order of the court remanding it to the rules: Provided
that four months shall be allowed to each party for taking
proof in chief, and two months for rebutting proof.

§ 5208. Exhibits to bills or answers may be proven by afﬁ
davits ﬁled with the exhibits in the clerk’s oﬁice at any time
before hearing, or by Witnesses at the hearing.
§ 5209. The depositions of subscribing witnesses to deeds
or other writings, shall be taken with such instruments an
nexed thereto.
§ 5210. The court, or the clerk and master, ma , upon good
cause shown, ﬁx the time of the notice for t e taking of
depositions, either restricting or enlarging the periods set
forth in sections 4605-4607.
§ 5211. After an examination in chief, or cross-examination
once had, no witness shall be again examined in chief, or
cross-examined, as the case may be, without leave of the court
or master on good cause shown.
§ 5212. When witnesses are aged or inﬁrm, or are going out
of the chancery division, or do not reside in such division,
the court or clerk and master, upon afﬁdavit of the facts,
may at any time after the bill is ﬁled, either before or after a
cause is at issue, authorize the deposition of the witnesses to
be taken dc bcnc esse, on such notice as may be thought 'ust;
and depositions thus taken may be read as if taken regufarly,
unless retaken by order of the court, upon application of the
opposite arty.
§ 5213. the party to a suit whose testimony is desired re
sides beyond the limits of the State, the person wishing his
evidence may ﬁle interro atories with the clerk and master,
which shall be answered efore such party can be allowed to
proceed to hearing.
§ 5214. Should such person delay to answer in a reasonable
time, to be judged of by the court or clerk, a peremptory order
may be made by the court or clerk requirin the interrogato
ries to be answered by a given day, and on ailure, if the de~
linquent is the com lainant, the bill may be dismissed, notice
of which shall be glven by the clerk and master to the party
or his solicitor; or the answer may bc taken off the ﬁle and
the bill taken for confessed, if the defendant be in default.
§ 5215. Either party to a suit in chancery is entitled, u on
application, to a jury to try and determine any material act
in dispute, and all the issues of fact in any case shall be sub
mitted to one jury.
§ 5216. If the demand is made in the pleadings, the cause
shall be tried at the ﬁrst term before a jury summoned in
stanter, in the same way that jury causes are tried at law.
§ 5217. If the demand is only made after the cause is ready
for hearing,-the trial will be before a jury summoned in
stanter upon the like evidence as a suit at law, together with
such parts of the bill, answers, depositions, and other pro
ceedings in the cause, as the court may order.
§ 5218. The issues shall be made up by the parties under the
direction of the court, and set forth brieﬂy and clearly the
true questions of fact to be tried.
§ 5219. The trial shall be conducted like other jury trials at Tﬂ
law, the ﬁndin of the jury having the same force and eﬁect,
and the court avin the same power and control over the
ﬁnding as on such trials at law.
§ 5220. The parties, in all jury trials in chancery, may sum
mon witnesses and enforce their attendance as at law.
§ 5221. A complete report shall be ﬁled by the clerk and
master within the time prescribed by the order or decree, or
a satisfactory excuse given in writing to the chancellor, by
the same time, in lieu of such report.
§ 5222. The trial docket of each term shall show in what
cases orders of reference have been made, and at what time;
and a failure to perform the duties required'by such order, or
to give a valid excuse in writing under the foregoing section,
is a misdemeanor in oﬁice.
§ 5223. The chancellor shall punish such neglect by ﬁne in
each case of default, not exceeding ﬁfty dollars; and for con
tinuous or repeated neglect of the duty, shall remove the
clerk from oﬂice.
§ 5224. The clerk and master, in all matters of reference,
whether for account, sale or otherwise, shall proceed with
the least practicable delay to comply with the terms of the
reference.
§ 5225. The clerk and master shall promptl pay, on de
mand, to the party entitled, all moneys in his ands, accord
ing to the directions and decrees of the court; and a wilful
disobedience of the provisions of this section is a misde
mialanor in ofﬁce, for which he may be removed by the chan
ce or. 
§ 5226. Decrees need not recite the facts upon which they
are based, but only the conclusions to which the court has
come.
§ 5227. The foregoing section does not prohibit the parties
from stating the facts 1n the decree, lainly and succinctly,
nor the court from directing it to be one.
§ 5228. Courts of ehancery may enforce rules, orders, or de
crees by process against the person in default, orby process
against his property.
§ 5229. An attachment issues by order of the court upon
the ofﬁcer’s return or afﬁdavit of the service of a copy of
the decree ten days beforehand, and that the party has failed
or refused to comply with the terms thereof.
§ 5230. If the defendant in execution keeps out of the way
or absconds, so that a copy of the decree cannot be served
upon him, or if he evades receiving the decree, afﬁdavit of
the fact, and that a copy of the decree was tendered him, or

left at his last‘ place of abode, will authorize the issuance of
the attachment Without actual service of the copy.
§ 5231. All attachments for the non-performance of decrees
are in the nature of an execution, on the service of which no
bail is taken, but the party shall be committed to jail, there
to remain until he performs the decree.
§ 5232. But the court, or a judge thereof, in vacation, may,
in such case, grant a habeas corpus, and dischar e the party,
if he shall purge the contempl, upon such con itions in re
spect to his compliance wit the decree as the judge may
think proper.
§ 5233. The adverse party, his agent or attorney, is entitled
to reasonable notice of the hearing upon the writ of habeas
corpus, if in the State, and may interrogate the party in con
tempt upon his oath, and controvert the truth of his state
ments by other proof.
§ 5234. The decree may divest the title to property, real or
personal, out of any of the parties, and vest it in others, and
such decree shall have all the force and effect of a conveyance
by such parties, executed in due form of law.
§ 5235. The court may also appoint a commissioner to exe
cute all necessary conve ances, releases, and acquittances,
either in his name or in t e name of the parties, as the court
may think proper; and the instrument so executed will be
as valid as if executed by the party.
§ 5236. If the decree direct a conveyance, release or acquit
tance to be made, and the party against whom the decree is
rendered fails or refuses to execute the same in the time speci
ﬁed in the decree, or in a reasonable time, if no particular
time is thus speciﬁed, the decree operates in all respects as if
the conve anee, release or acquittance was made
§ 5237. f the court see proper in the ﬁrst instance, or if
upon issuance of the attachment, the delinquent cannot be
found, a writ of sequestration may issue against the estate of
such delinquent, to compel obedience to the decree.
§ 5238. Courts of chancery are further authorized to issue
such process, mesne and ﬁnal, as has been used in such courts;
and all writs for the collection of money, or to obtain the '
possession of real or personal property, in use in the common
law courts, may be adapted to the execution of decrees in the
courts of chancery.
§ 5239. Where, upon the foreclosure of a mortga e, or deed
of trust, or in any case, the speciﬁed land to be so (1 is men- “6
tioned in the decree, the court, upon the application of the
complainant, may order— ' l
1. That the property be sold on a credit of not less than
six months nor more than two years.
2. That whenthe sale is made and reported, and conﬁrmed,
no right of redemption or repurchase shall exist in the debtor
pr hiscreditors, but that the purchaser’s title shall be abso
ute. ' __ . . _. ;.
3. That the surplus of the purchase moneyﬂorthﬁibondﬂ.
or notes taken therefor, over and above what is necessary to
pay the complainant’s debt, he paid to the debtor or his
other creditors entitled to the same.
§ 5240. The court may, upon bill of review, and the circum
- .
stances of the case, stay proceedings on the decree until ﬁnal
hearing or further order, or refuse such stay, as shall seem
right.
§ 5241. In either case, the court may direct such security to
be given, and in the same wa , as in the ease of injunctions,
or such other security as shal seem reasonable.
§ 5242. Costs shall be paid upon interlocutory proceedings
in the following cases:
I. When the plaintiff amends his blll after copy issued, he
shall pa all costs occasioned thereby.
2. W en the defendant’s answer is excepted to for insuﬁi~
ciency, and a rule is given him to ﬁle a sufﬁcient answer
within one month, a suﬁicient answer offered within the
month is to be received without costs; but if the defendant
neglect or refuse to put in a sufﬁcient answer, or put in
another answer which is adjudged insufﬁcient, no further or
other answer shall be received but upon payment of costs.
3. On overruling or sustainin exceptions to an answer,
the unsuccessful party shall pay t e other three dollars.
4. Upon a plea or demurrer argued and overruled, costs
shall be paid as where an answer is adjudged insufﬁcient; but
if a plea or demurrer be allowed, the defendant shall recover
the same amount from the plaintiff.
§ 5243. Upon the ﬁnal decree, the costs shall be paid by the
party against whom the court shall udge them, according
to its discretion.
§ 5244. Where the bill is dismissed for want of prosecution,
the plaintiff shall pay the costs.
§ 245. The concurrence of three of the judges is necessary
to a decision in every case.
§ 5246. The court has no original jurisdiction, but appeals
and writs of error, or other proceedin s for the correction of
errors, lie from the inferior courts of aw and equity, within
each division, to the Supreme Court held for that division.'

§ 5247. Agreed cases may, by consent of the parties, be adjourned
to the Supreme Court for decision.
§ 5248. The court may recommit offenders in State cases,
when it may appear necessary, and remand them to the in
ferior court from which their cases were brought to the Sn
preme Court, taking recognizances from such defendants.
when the oﬁ'ense charged is bailable, with such security as
the court shall judge proper.
§ 5249. The court may give judgment upon any and all
bonds or recognizances, whether in civil or criminal cases,
executed in the progress of the cause, under the general pro
visions of law, or by lawful order of the court, either in the
inferior 0r Supreme Court, and enforce the same by execution
or otherwise, as in the case of other judgments and decrees
of the court.
§ 5250. Process of scire facias may, in all such cases, be
issued as is proper in similar cases in the inferior courts, and,
upon appearance of the defendant, and issue of facts made
thereon, the court may order a jury to be summoned forth
with, to determine the issue, and may give judgment thereon
as the inferior courts of law might do in similar cases.
§ 5251. In all cases in which the Supreme Court may give
judgment through inadvertence and oversight, when upon
the face of the record no cause of action existed against the
party, the court may, upon its own motion, vacate such judg
ment.
§ 5252. The court may likewise, at any time after ﬁnal judg
ment, correct mistakes apparent on the face of the record, as
provided in section 3589. I
§ 5253. The court may issue all writs and process necessary
for the exercise and enforcement of Its jurisdiction.
§ 5254. The Supreme Court may make rules of practice for
the better disposal of business before it.
§ 5255. It shall so class the circuits of the different divisions
as to set the causes from each circuit for trial on certain weeks
of the term, and make publication thereof three months be
fore the beginning of the term.
§ 5256. The Supreme Court shall take up and try the cases
from the different counties in a circuit in the order in which
the counties are named in the act citing the circuit; and
when the business of a county is taken up, it shall be con
cluded before passing to the business of another county, un
less for satisfactory reasons to the court. ‘
§ 5257. Either judge in attendance at any time may adjourn
court, in the absence of the other judges, from day to day,
until they are able to attend.
§ 5258. The clerk or sheriﬁ' may also adjourn the court from
day to day, for one week at the ﬁrst of the term, if neither
judge attends.
§ 5259. The clerk, at the expiration of the week, or the
sin le judge in attendance in the case mentioned in section
§ 525 , if satisﬁed that a quorum cannot be had, may adjourn
’ to the court in course.
§ 5260. Such adjournment works no discontinuance in any
case, but the business stands over until the next term, and
may then be disposed of, and all process, recognizances, or
other obligations enforced, as if no such continuance had
been made. ’
§ 5261. It is the duty of the judges of the Supreme Court
to hold its terms at the different places designated by law,
until all the causes are determined or OthGl'WlSQ disposed of,
or until it becomes necessary to adjourn to hold court at an
other point.
§ 5262. But the court may sit upon its own adjournments,
and hold its term at any time, for the purpose of hearing
and deciding the unﬁnished business.
§ 5263. The judges of the Supreme Court shall have power
to appoint and hold a special term upon giving twenty days’
notice of the time in some newspaper in t e division in which
the court is holden, for the trial of such causes as they may
deem essential to the public interests.
§ 5264. The judges of the Supreme Court, or any one of
them, on a proper case bein made out, shall have the author
ity to grant the process 0 supersedeas to an execution, re
turnable to their own court, in the same manner the Supreme
Court whilst in session can grant such process.
§ 5265. They may also grant supersc/lcas to the execution of
an interlocutory decree of an inferior court in the cases pro
vided for in sections 4701, 4702.
§ 5266. All appeals, and appeals in the nature of a writ of
error, taken from the ﬁnal jud lent or decree of an inferior
court, at any time before the Sitting of the Supreme Court,
shall stand for hearing at the ﬁrst term, without notice to the
opposite party.
§ 5267. An appeal, appeal inithe nature of a writ of error,
or writ of error, may be prosecuted from any ﬁnal judgment
or decree rendered in an inferior court durin the term of
the Supreme Court, the record being ﬁled in t e court, and
the opposite party, or his counsel, notiﬁed ﬁve days before
the hearin .
§ 5268. 0 'udgment, decision, or decree of the inferior
courts shall e reversed in the Supreme Court, unless for
errors which affect the merits of the judgment, decision, or
decree complained of.
§ 5269. No ofﬁcer is allowed to demand or receive fees or
other compensation for any service further than is expressly
provided by law.
§ 5270. If any ofﬁcer demands or receives any other or
higher fees than are prescribed by law, he is liable to the
party aggrieved in the penalty of ﬁfty dollars, to be recovered
before any justice of the peace, and is also guilty of a misde
meanor in oﬂice.

§ 5271. The clerks of the several courts, sheriﬁ's, justices of
the peace and other oﬂicers entitled to fees under the pro
visions of law, are required to keep posted up in a cons icu~
ous place in their res ective ofﬁces, a complete list of a l the
fees allowed them by aw, and shall also keep a copy ready to
be produced on the application of any person demanding to
see the same.
§ 5272. Such oﬂicers shall also, on demand, make out a bill
of fees and costs in any case or matter, stating each item dis
tinctly, without charge therefor.
§ 5273. N0 ofﬁcer is entitled to demand and receive fees
allowed by law, until the duty or service for which they are
granted is performed, unless otherwise expressly provided by
aw.
§ 5274. The sheriﬁ's and other collecting Ofﬁcers of this
State, shall be allowed the same fees for collecting and pay,
ing over costs as they are now allowed by law for the collec
tion of other moneys.
§ 5275. They shall not be allowed to charge and receive
commissions on costs in their favor.
§ 5276. It is the duty of the several courts of the State to
decide, upon application by the oﬁicer entitled to compensa-
tion, any question arising under the law, and such decision
will protect the ofﬁcer acting under it.
§ 5277. The salary of the Treasurer of the State shall be
twenty-seven hundred dollars per annum, to be paid quarterly
out of .the treasury.
§ 5278. The salary of the Comptroller shall be twenty-seven
hundred and ﬁfty dollars per annum for all services, payable
quarterly out of the treasury.
§ 5279. The Secretary of State is entitled to a salary of
thirteen hundred dollars per annum, payable quarterly out of
any money in the treasury, upon warrant of the Comptroller,
and to certain fees of ofﬁce as provided for in the next sec
tion.
§ 5280. The Secretary of State is entitled to demand and
. . . .
receive for the tollowmg serylces the fees annexed:
1. For each search in his ofﬁce ___________________________________ __$ 10
2. For each copy, for every hundred words ________________________ __ 10
3. For each certiﬁcate, with seal of State _________________________ __ l 00
4. For each certiﬁcate, without seal of State ______________________ __ 25
5. For each grant issued ________________________________________ _- 50
6. For entering in a book the number and date 'of each grant, with the
number of acres, and grantee's name ________________________ -_ 10
7. For each memorandum of incorporation under the provisions of this
Code, required to be ﬁled and recorded in his ofﬁce ____________ __ 3 00
8. For each copy of township or other plats from the maps in his oﬁice- 50
9. For afﬁxing the Great Seal of the State to the commission of each
_ commissioner of deeds for this State _________________________ _- 5 00
10. For signing and afﬁxing the seal of the State to each commission for
judges and attorneys for the State, to be paid by the party receiv
ing the same _______________________________________________ __ 1 00
§ 5281. The Secretar of State shall not be entitled to any
feefor si ninsg and aﬁixing the seal of the State to any com
mission or tate or county ofﬁcers, except as provided in
sub-sec. 10, above.
§ 5282. The law regulating the fees of the Secretary of State,
shall be so construed and understood as to allow him to de
mand and receive ten cents per hundred words for all copies,
transcripts or records made by him, and one dollar for attest
ing with his signature and aﬂixing the seal of the State to all
papers, to be paid for by the arty or parties for whom the
same is done, whether for the tate or individuals.
§ 5283. The Treasurer, Comptroller and Secretary of State
are also entitled to an allowance each year for the expenses
incurred for the necessary books, stationery and postage in
the discharge of their ofﬁcial duties.
§ 5284. The assayer shall receive no salary from the State,
but shall be entitled to perguisites of oﬂice by charging and
receiving for each assay a ee not exceeding ﬁve dollars, to be
paid by the person for whom the work is done.
§ 5286. Each chancellor, circuit and criminal court judge
(except county judges) and judges of special courts, shall e
entitled to a salary of two thousand dollars per annum.
§ 5287. Each county judge of a county Where such judge
is provided for by law, is entitled to receive ﬁve dollars per
day during the sitting of the monthly and quarterly courts,
and such additional compensation as the several quarterly
courts may appropriate for his services, to be paid quarterly
out of the county treasury upon his own warrant.
§ 5288. The salary of the Attorney-General and Reporter
for the State shall be three thousand dollars per annum, pay
able quarterly, in the same manner that the Supreme Jud es
of the State are now paid, which shall be in full for all is
services as such Attorney-General and Reporter, and he shall
receive from the State no further pa , emolument 0r perqui
site, unless the same shall be especia 1y provided by law.
See 1881, ch. 4.
§ 5289. The attorneys-general for each judicial district are
entitled to demand and receive for services the following fees,
and none other:
1. For each ﬁnal conviction where the punishment is death _________ “$20 00
2. For each ﬁnal conviction for selling, wearing, or using bowie-knife
and Arkansas tooth-pick ___________________________________ -- 20 00
3. For each ﬁnal conviction for perjury ___________________________ __ 15 00
4. For each ﬁnal conviction for any felony ________________________ __ 10 00
5. For each ﬁnal conviction for a misdemeanor ____________________ __ 5 00
6. For felonies, if the defendant is tried but acquitted ______________ _- 5 00
7. For misdemeanors in the like event ____________________________ __ 2 50
8. For each prosecution where the grand jury ﬁnds a true bill, but the .
cause is terminated without a trial ____________________________ __ 3 00
See 8 Les, 35; 7 Lea, 408; 4 Les, 183.
9. For motions or actions successfully prmecuteangainst delinquent of—
ﬁcers and their sureties, or either ____________________________ .. 10 00
10. For recovering penalty prescribed against breaches of the revenue
laws in relation to licenses, double fees.
11. For similar motions or actions unsuccessfully prosecuted _________ --$ 5 00
12. For prosecuting forfeitures against witnesses, jur'ors, or overseers of
roads _____________________________________________________ __ 2 50
13. For professional attention to prosecutions instituted by clerk for pen
alties under inspect-ion laws _________________________________ __ 10 00
14. For proceeding against clerk for delinquency in enrolling cause-..--- 5 00
15. For proceedings successfully prosecuted against persons violating any
of the provisions of the revenue laws where the penalty amounts
to ﬁve hundred dollars _____________________________________ __ 25 00
16. For successfully prosecuting venders of lottery tickets ___________ __ 20 00
17. For all other proceedings in behalf of the State where, by the judg
ment of the court, the defendant pays costs __________________ __ 5 00
§ 5290. The fees contemplated in the foregoing section are
to be taxed in the bill of costs, and collected from the de
fendant Whenever the prosecutions or proceedings have been
successful.
§ 5291. \Vhere the prosecutions and proceedings have been
unsuccessful, or the money cannot be collected from the de
fendants, or the prosecutor is charged with costs, the‘fees
allowed the attorney-general are paid out of the State or
county treaSury, as other costs in criminal cases.
§ 5292. In no case of misdemeanor, however, where the
county pays the costs, shall the attorney-general’s tax fee be
more than two dollars and ﬁfty cents. -
§ 5293. In all cases of misdemeanor, where a. nollc proscqui
is entered and cause is stricken from the docket, and the
county is taxed with the cost, no fee shall be taxed or allowed
the attorney-general.
§ 5294. If there are two or more defendants in a criminal
rosecution, or any action or proceeding on behalf of the
tate, and the defendants do not sever in their defense, the
attorney-general is entitled to only one tax fee.
§ 5295, When the defendants make several defenses, he will
be entitled to one tax fee for each defense.
§ 5296. No cost or tax fee is allowed the attorney-general
when a bill of indictment is ignored by the grand jury, or
the prosecution fails by reason of any defect in the pleadings.
§ 5297. The attorneys for the State, of the various judicial
and criminal districts of this State, shall, in addition to the
compensation now allowed to them by law, be allowed to re
ceive twenty-ﬁve per cent. on all sums of mone collected and
actually paid into the treasury of the State an the treasury
of the county, where the amount collected does not exceed
two hundred and ﬁfty dollars, and to receive ten per cent. on
all sums of money collected and actually paid into the treasury
of the State or the treasury of the county, over said sum of
two hundred and ﬁfty dollars collected _by said attorney for
the State from defendant or defendants, andtheir suret vor
sureties on bonds or recognizances entered into by defen ant
or defendants for their faithful appearance in court, when a
forfeiture is taken against, therefor. their. non~appearance, '
according to the terms, stipulations and conditions of their
respective bonds or recognizances to answer such charge as
the State may prefer against them.
§ 5298. The justices of the peace in this State are allowed
to demand and receive, for their services in civil cases, the
following fees, and none other:
1. For issuing a warrant against-one defendant ___________ -Q _______ __$ . '25
2. For issuing a warrant for each additional defendant ---_-_-__..-..___ 10
3. For issuing a subpoena for a single witness _________________ ________ 25
5. For entering a continuance ___________________________________ -_$ 10
7. For rendering judgment where there is no litigation _____________ _- 50
7. For rendering judgmentwhcré there is litigation ________________ __ 75
8. For docketing each case, ﬁling papers, making out bill of costs, and
entering stay, if given ______________________________________ __ 15
9- For issuing execution and copy of cost _________________________ -_ 25
10. For each search for any paper or record ________________________ _- 10
11. For each garnishment _________ __' _____________________________ _- 25
12. For each scire facias _________________________________________ __ 25
13. For afﬁdavit and bond in attachment cases, and issuance of attach
ment _____________________________________________________ -- 1 00
14. For an order of publication ___________________________________ _- 25
15. For every other order required by law __________________________ _- 10
16. For entry of an appeal and taking appeal bond _________________ __ 50
17. For taking any other bond in discharge of his oﬁicial duties, for
which the fee is not ﬁxed ____________________________________ __ 50
18. Fur making out copy of costs in appeal cases ___________________ __ 25
19. For a commission to take depositions __________________________ __ 25
20. For taking depositions ________________________________________ __ 1 00
21. For issuing a warrant for forcible entry and detainer _____________ __ 25
22. For trying forcible entry and detainer case, each day ............ __ 1 00
23. For issuing writ of replevin, with bond and afﬁdavit _____________ __ 1 00
24. For rendering the judgment therein ___________________________ __ 50
25. For probating an account _____________________________________ __ 10
26. For every written afﬁdavit not included in some other service _____ __ 15
27. For every certiﬁcate not included in some other service __________ __ 20
28. For recording the papers and proceedings in an action, where re
quired by law, per hundred words _____________________________ __ 10
29. For a certiﬁed copy of any record or paper in his oﬂice, per hundred
words ---------------------------------------------------- -- 10
30. For receiving petition and granting an order for discovery ________ __ 50
31. For services touching stallions and jackasses running at large ____ _- 1 00
32. For issuing order to freeholders to examine partition fences, and
ascertaining amount to be paid for erecting same _____________ __ 50
33. To the justices of the quorum, such compensation as the court may
allow.
34. For each certiﬁed' transcript of judgments ______________________ __ 25
§ 5299. Justices of the peace of this State, attending quar
terly courts of their respective counties, shall be entitled to
and receive one dollar and ﬁfty cents per diem, for their at
attendance. 
§ 5300. And for their services in criminal cases the following
fees:
1. For taking written afﬁdavit to procure a warrant _________________ __$ 10'
2. For issuing a warrant ___________________________________________ __ 50
§ 5301. The clerks of the several courts of this State are
allowed to demand and receive for the following services the
fe
10.
ll.
12.
13.
14.
es thereto attached:
. For every original process, summons, or subpcnna to answer ______ __$
. Fer entering security of record ________________________________ __
. For each prosecution bond _____________________________________ __
. For each attachment, replevin, or injunction, or refunding bonds in
equity case ________________________________________________ __
. For registering prosecution, attachment, and injunction, and replevin
bonds in a book to be kept for that purpose ___________________ __
. For each attachment or injunction _______ -__ _____________________ __
. For receiving, ﬁling, and entering on docket any bill, petition, decla
ration, plea, demurrer, or other pleading, each ________________ __
. For taking and ﬁling an afﬁdavit to any pleading _________________ -.
. For taking and ﬁling any other afﬁdavit in a cause _______ _, _____ __
For each order or motion, and order thereon ____________________ __
For issuing subpoena for witnesses, for each witness _____________ __
For issuing subpoena to bring in paper or record, etc ____________ __
For taking each deposition ____________________________________ -_
For’every order of publication ________________________________ __
§ 5302. If the amount of the sale exceeds six thousand dol
lars, the court may make an additional allowance, not in
any case to exceed two per cent. on the whole amount of sale.
§ 5303. The court may make allowances to the clerk or
other person acting as trustee, receiver, or commissioner
under the appointment of the court, where no fees are ﬁxed
by law.
§ 5304. If the clerk employ an auctioneer or other person
to cry the sale of property, it shall be at his own expense.
§ 5305, The clerks of the circuit, criminal, ehancery, and
county courts, are entitled to be paid out of the county treasury
of their res ective counties, the necessary cost of all blank or
record boo 's, required by them in the discharge of their
ofﬁcial duties.
§ 5306. N0 clerk of any court in this State shall be entitled
to any fees which become chargeable to the State or county,
in consequence of any omission or neglect Of duty on the
part of such clerk.
§ 5307, Nor shall such clerks be entitled to any fees for im
perfect or incorrect transcripts made out and transmitted to
a superior court, but such fees shall, on motion, be stricken
out of the bill of costs, and such clerk, moreover, charged
with costs of the certiorari awarded to bring up a more per
fect record.
§ 5308. The clerks of the Supreme Court, in addition to the
' fees allowed in the preceding article for any services therein
mentioned, performed by them, may demand and receive for
the following services, the fees attached thereto:
For docketing causes upon the judge's docket, each cause ___________ _-$ 10
For entering suggestion of diminution of record ____________________ __ 25
For each motion entered ________________________________________ .._ 20
For entering suggestion of incompetency of judge_________ -_., ______ __ 25
For every order entered_‘ _________________________________________ _- 25
For each procedendo _____________________________________________ _- 50
For copy of opinion to accompany the same, per hundred words ______ __ 10
For motion and judgment against sureties __________________________ __ 25
For copies of opinions for the State reporter, per hundred words ______ __ 10
For entering judgment in criminal cases against the State or county,
when the defendant is shown by the execution to be insolvent-___ 75
§ 5309. The clerk of the Supreme Court is also entitled to
be paid out of the State treasury the cost of all the blank or
record books, required by him in the discharge of his oﬁicial
duties, for which the Comptroller shall issue his warrant
upon the production by the clerk of his account for such
books, duly sworn to.
§ 5310. The clerks of the circuit and criminal courts, in ad
dition to the fees allowed for any services performed by them
as provided in Article I. of this chapter, may demand and
receive for the following services, the fees attached:
For each capias__--_'- ___________________________________________ "$1 75
For presentment or indictment, charging prisoners and pleas ________ __ 25
For entering and ﬁling every recognizance _________________________ __ 25
For taking recognizance of record _________________________________ __ 25
For every certiﬁed copy of order ___________________________________ __ 25
For motion in arrest of judgment, and order thereon ________________ __
For entering a judgment against the State or county, where the defend
ant is shown by execution to be insolvent ____________________ __ 75
For enteringjudgrnent of condemnation of land on a justice's execution, l 50
For copying indictment in cases of felony into the minute book, per hun
dred words ________________________________________________ __ 10
For jury in cases of felony _______________________________________ __ 50
For ﬁling and recording declaration in naturalization case, with copy and
seal of court ________________________________________________ -_ 1 50
For entering ﬁnal decree in, with copy and seal ______________________.- 1 50
For rendering account to county trustee for ﬁnes and forfeitures each year, 1 00
For recording and countersigning each license ______________________ __ 25
For receiving and paying all moneys from defaulting oﬂicers, at the rate
of six per cent.
For taking revenue bonds, same as county court clerk, for similar services.
For services touching changing names, adoption or legitimation of chil
. dren---- _________________________________________________ __ 1 00
For receiving money from delinquent collector, reporting s
§ 5311. The clerks and masters of the chancery court are al
lowed to demand and receive for services the fees attached to
such services as provided in Article I. of this chapter.
§ 5312. The clerks of the county courts, in addition to the
fees allowed for services as prescribed in Article I. of this chapter, are entitled to demand and receive for the following
services the fees attached:
1.
2
woo
10.
l2.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
For taking and certifying the probate or acknowledgment of a deed
or other instrument _______________________________________ __$
. For taking privy examination of feme covert ___________________ -_
3.
For a commission to take the acknowledgment of aﬁme covert, and
all services therein _________________________________________ _ _
. For certifying to the ofﬁcial character ofa justice of the peace, with
out the county seal ________________________________________ -_
. For a similar certiﬁcate with the seal attached __________________ __
For entering on the minutes the probate of a will ______ "s ______ __
. For recording a will, per hundred words ________________________ __
. For recording report of commissioners to lay off year’s provision__.
. For qualifying an executor or administrator, and entering the ap
pointment on record _______________________________________ _ _ 1
For taking and recording administration bond ................... __ l
. For recording letters testamentary, or of administration ___________ __
For copy of same ____________________________________________ __
For recording in a well-bound book all inventories and accounts of
sale, counting four ﬁgures as a word, per hundred words _______ _.
For copy of same, per hundred words ___________________________ __
For marriage bond and license, registering the same, and the return
on license _________________________________________________ _- 1
For copy of license and bond ____________________ __-___________ __
For taking and recording each license bond_-__- _--- _-----l-______ 1
For all proceedings in a case of bastardy _______________________ -_ 2
For each apprentice indenture _________________________________ __ 1
For qualifying, taking and recording bond, and entering appointment
of constable _______________________________________________.- 1
For similar services in regard to sheriffs ________________________ __ 2
For similar services as to other official bonds. __________________ __ 1
For each revenue bond _______________________________________ __ 1
For recording mark or brand. and making index thereof__________ __
For issuing warrant ___________________________________________ __
For rendering to the county trustee each year an account of ﬁnes,
forfeitures, and other county revenue by him collected, to be paid
by the county _______________________________________________-_ 1
For taking bond and aﬂidavit, and issuing merchant's license _____ .. 2
For issuing license to exhibit shows ____________________________ -- 1
F0r issuing tippling license and taking bond ____________________ _. 1
For issuing license to stand stallion or jack _____________________ __
For issuing license to hawk and peddle _________________________ __ 1
For issuing boat license to sell goods __________________________ _.. 1
For recording same, per hundred words ________________________ For
copy thereof, per hundred words ___________________________ -_
For ﬁling and recording refunding bond from legatee or distributesFor
receiving and ﬁling the suggestion of the insolvency of an estate,
and order of publication ___________________________________ _. _
For receiving and ﬁling each claim against same ................ -_
§ 5313. The county court clerks of this State shall be entitled to one dollar for the ﬁrst hundred words, ﬁfty cents
for every hundred words thereafter for taking and stating
accounts of guardians, executors, and administrators; four
ﬁgures to be counted one word, and ﬁgures to be used when
practicable; Provided, that when makiu settlements with
administrators and executors, the clerks s all not be allowed
to incorporate the inventory and account of sales of such
estates in their settlements, but shall only state the aggregate
amount of the inventory of the estates.
§ 5314. The clerks of the different county courts in this
State shall not be entitled to any fees for certiﬁcates and seals
in the application for pension and pensioners’ money, or
upon powers of attorney for that purpose, and justices of
the peace shall not be entitled to fees in-such cases, and the
taking or receiving of fees in any such case by either of said
ofﬁcers, shall be a misdemeanor.
§ 5315. Whenever the distributive share of any minor does
not exceed two hundred dollars, the clerk of the county court
shall not be entitled to more than one dollar for any one set
tlement he may make with the guardian of such minor.
§ 5316. The sheriﬁ is allowed to demand and receive for the F
following'services the fees attached:
1. For executing every capias, summons, or other leading process_----$ 1 00
2. For returning any of the above writs, not found _________________ __ 25
3. For every bail-bond __________________________________________ __ 25
4. For serving a declaration in real action ________________________ _- 1 00
5. For serving a subpcena for each witness____...-____-___..-.-___ ___._ 25
6. For returning same not found, for each ________________________ __ 10
7. FM serving every scire facias ________________________________ __ 1 00
8. For returning same not found _________________________________ __ 25
9. For commitment and release ___________________________________ .. 50
10. For summoning jurors of a regular venire, for each juror _______ __ 15
11. For special venire by order of court, each juror ................. __ 05
12. For summoning each justice and juror ________________________ __ 25
13. [For serving each notice of application for dower or partition _____ -- 50
14. For executing and returning writ of dower or partition, and all neces
sary service ________________________________________________ -_ 3 00
15. For each day’s attendance on premises _________________________ __ 2 00
16. For executing writ of possession ______________________________ -_ 1 00
17. For serving and attending any person on writ of habeas corpus, each‘
day ________________________________________________________ __ 2 00
18. For levying an attachment ____________________________________ __ 1 00
19. For summoning a garnishee ___________________________________ __ 50
20. For levying an execution on property ___________________________ __ 1 00
21. For collecting money on execution, on the ﬁrst hundred __________ __ 4 00
22. For every hundred over one and not exceeding three ______________ 3 00
23. For every hundred over three __________________________________ _- 2 00
24. For keeping each head of horses, mules, or_jacks levied on by execu
tion or attachment, per day________________________________ __ 25
25. For each head of cattle, per day______________________________ __ 05
26. For each day’s attendance on court ____________________________ .._ 1 50
27. For serving justice's warrant, each defendant ___________________ __ 50
28. For removing any criminal from one county to another, per mile,
going and returning _________________________________________ ,. 10
' 29. For guards, not exceeding two, per mile, going and returning ---- __ 05
30. For conveying prisoners arrested on capiss from one jail to another,
per mile, as above _________________________________________

§ 5317. Sheriﬁ's or other county ofﬁcers conveying convicts
to the penitentiary shall be allowed pay and mileage only for
the guards who actually accompanied the prisoners, and pay
and mileage shall only be received for one guard for each
prisoner.
§ 5318. The county courts of the different counties in this
State shall at their ﬁrst quarterly term in each and every
year, make such allowance as they in their discretion shall
think sufﬁcient to compensate their sheriﬁ‘s for ex oﬂicio
service.
§ 5319. No sheriﬁ' or constable shall be com elled to exe
cute any subpoana or original summons in civi cases coming
from any county other than the one in which he is an oiﬁeer,
unless the fees allowed him by law for the services of such
process shall be paid in advance.
§ 5320. The coroners in this State are allowed to demand F
and receive the same fees as the sheriﬁs for similar serwces. t
They are also entitled to demand and receive for each m- E
quisition ﬁve dollars.
§ 5321. Constables are entitled to demand and receive the
same fees as sheriﬂ's for similar services performed by them
accortlingrto law, where not expressl ' modiﬁed in' this article.
§ 5322. hey are entitled to deman and receive for services,
as follows: '
i. For the levy of an attachment or ﬁeri facias ___________________ _-$ 1 00
2. For serving a scire ﬁzcz'as issued by justice ____________________ __ 50
3. For executing each notice _____________________________________ __ 50
4. For summoning and swearing a jury of view in road cases, to be
paid by county ____________________________________________ __ l 00
5. For summoning each defendant in forcible entry and detainer ____ __ 1 00
6. For summoning the justices to try forcible entry and detainer ---- -- 25
7. For each witness summoned in same ___________________________ __ 25
t'. For executing writ of replevin _________________________________ __ 1 00
9. For attending on grand jury, or waiting on court, per day ________ __ l 50
§ 5323. The several jailers in this State are entitled to de-
mand and receive the following fees for services:
1. For each prisoner for whom he provides good wholesome water, diet,
and bedding, each day ______________________________________ "S 40
2. For each turnkey._ ____________________________________________ __ 1 00
Only two turnkeys shall be allowed for each prisoner; no
allowance shall be made to jailers by county courts, unless a
committee of three justices, to be appointed by the county
court, shall have reported to the said court that the jailer has
complied with the rovisions of this article in reference to
food, water and bed ing. '
§ 5324. Jailers shall be allowed the same fees for keeping
witnesses committed to jail under section 5896 of the Code,
as they are now allowed, for keeping prisoners; the same
to be taxed in the bill of costs and paid in the same manner as
other costs in the same cases.
§ 5325. The iiotaries public of this State are entitled to de
mand'and receive the following fees and compensation for
services:
1. For recording in a well-bound book, to be kept by him for that pur~
pose, each attestation, protestation, and other instrument of publi
cation ___________________________________________________ __$ 1 ()0
2. For every acknowledgment or probate of deed, or other instrument
of writing _________________________________________________ __ 50
3. For each deposition taken ____________________________________ __ 1 00
4. For any other service legally performed by him, the same fees al
lowed other oﬂicers for like services.
§ 5326. The several surveyors in this State are entitled to
- . .
demand and receive the followmg compensation and fees for
services:
1. For each search, to be paid by applicant ________________________ -_$ 10
‘2. For each search and copy required _____________________________ __ 2.5
3. For recording a plat and certiﬁcate in a well-bound book, furnished
by him ___________________________________________________ __ 50
4. For services per day, computed from the time of leaving home, and
including the actual time necessary for calculating the area of
such surveys ---------------------------------------------- __ 3 00
5. For all services ordered by a court, at the above rates, to bel'taxed in
the bill of costs.
6. For summoning and qualifying jury to try dispute in processioning
case -------- __ ---- ---- -_ 50
7. For services in allotting dower, as provided in Q 3267.
§ 5327. It shall and may be lawful for all courts ordering
the survey of any land or lands, to allow, in addition to the
fee now allowed by law, such additional compensation as the
services of the county surveyor may be reasonably worth.
§ 5328. The sealer of weights and measures is entitled to
damand and receive for sealin , ﬁfteen cents.
§ 5329. The fees of a standar keeper and sealer of weights
and measures shall be as follows:
1. For proving and sealing each balance beam, patent balance, platform
scales, steelyards, or other weighing apparatus, requiring less than
one hundred pounds to test _________________________________ "S 10
2. For such as require from one hundred to ﬁve hundred pounds to test- 25
§ 5330. He may also charge a reasonable compensation for
labor and materials employed in making or attempting to
make such weights, measures or balances as are not correct,
conform to the standards; and he may retain such weights
and measures as are brought to him for adjustment until his
fees are paid.
§ 5331. He shall also have a reasonable compensation for
leaving his ofﬁce to prove, seal or adjust weights or meas
ures not brought there for that purpose.
§ 5332. Special commissioners appointed by court to sell
property, take accounts, examinations, de ositions, or per
form other services, are entitled to deman and receive the
same fees and compensation allowed other ofﬁcers for similar
services.
§ 5333. Commissioners to allot dower, and make partition
of land, and for other similar services, where no compensa
tion is ﬁxed by law, are entitled to demand and receive:
1. For each day’s actual service .... _-_ ____________________________ __$ 1 ()0
2. For every mile of necessary travel ______________________________ __ 05
§ 5334. Superintendents or commissioners appointed by the
county court to examine turnpike roads under the provisions
of this Code, are entitled to demand and receive from the
turnpike company, for each day’s service, $2.
§ 5335.~ Commissioners appointed by the county court to
settle the counts of ofﬁcers, are entitled to receive from the
county treasury, for each day’s service, $2.
§ 5336. Printers are entitled to demand and receive for
printing, the following fees:
1. For advertising sales under a decree, unless otherwise ordered by
court, in no case exceeding ___________________________________ __$ 3 00
2. For publishing any order of court, in no case, exceeding __________ _- 3 00
3. For advertising each estray _____________________________________ __ l 00
4. For advertisement or notice of sale of land under mortgage, judicial
process, etc., per square, for ﬁrst insertion _____________________ __ 80
5. For each subsequent insertion, per square _______________________ __ 40
§ 5337. The register of each county is entitled to demand
and receive for services, the following fees, and none other:
hundred words, purporting to convey one lot or tract of ground.
For every additional tract or lot in same deed ___________________ __
- For every one hundred words over ﬁve hundred _________________ _ _
For every other instrument of whatever kind or character required by
law to be registered, or which any party may desire to have regis
tered, for the ﬁrst three hundred words or less ________________ -_
. For every additional hundred words ____________________________ __
.' For each certiﬁcate attached to any instrument__________-__-___ ..
. For certiﬁed copies of any instrument, the same fees as for registering.
. For each warrant contained in a grant more than one ____________ __
For registering each certiﬁcate or order of registration ___________ __
. For registering decrees for title, under one hundred words ________ -_
12. For each hundred words in such decrees over one hundred, at the
rate for each additional hundred ____________________________ __
13. For registering the transcript of a judgment ____________________ __
14. For registering any other instrument ___________________________ __
15. For registering certiﬁcate thereof______________________________ __
16. For each searchfof his books __________________________________ .._
17. For all copies from the ofﬁce, the same fees as for registering.
18. For certifying such copies _____________________________________ __
19. For each memorandum of incorporation or other document relating
to private corporations, registered under the provisions of this
Code ----------------------------------------------------- -
20. For each copy of such memorandum or document_______________ __
21. For registering copy of petition and certiﬁcate of election to be incor
porated as a town __________________________________________ _.
22. For registering deed or article of limited partnership, or renewal of
same, and certiﬁcate of probate or acknowledgment thereof.... __
Construed. lLea, 132. I
23. For registering acknowledgment of [discharge of mortgage, by an
I.
2.
Au
c
. For registering each sheriﬁ's deed for land _____________________ _-$ 1 '25
. For each deed, bond, or other assurance of title, not exceeding ﬁve
entry on margin of record __________________________________ -_
§ 5338. Rangers are entitled to demand and receive the fol
lowing fees:
For each search _______________________________________________ __$
For each mare, horse, gelding, colt, or mule, entered in his oﬁice, in
cluding certiﬁcate _________________________________________ _. _
. For each head of cattle ________________________________________ __
. For each head of hogs or sheep ________________________________ __
. For each bond _________________________________ __'_____________ __
