1. The clerk of the supreme court shall reside and keep
his office at the place of holding the court at each branch
thereof.
TRANSCRIPTS.
2. The clerk shall receive the transcripts delivered and
sent to him, and receipt for the same if required. But he
shall not be required to take a transcript out of the post
office, when sent by mail, unless the postage thereon is fully
paid. If he does so, it must be on behalf of the attorney
of the party who sends it, or the attorney who appears in
the case in the supreme court, to whom he must look for
refunding the money advanced for that purpose, and pre
sent his bill for the same.
3. The clerk shall indorse his filing upon the transcript
of the date of its reception, if it comes to his hands prop
erly indorsed, showing who applied for it and to whom it
was delivered, on or before the first day of the assignment
to which it belongs. But, if it comes to his hands after the
said date, or not so properly indorsed, he shall, without
filing it, make a memorandum upon it of the date of its
reception, and keep it in his office, subject to the order of
the person who sent it, or to the disposition of the court.
Said transcript shall not be filed until a satisfactory showing
has been made to the court for not being properly indorsed,
or for not being received by the clerk in proper time; and,
upon this being done, it may be ordered by the court to be
filed, upon such terms as may be deemed proper, having
respect to the rights of the opposite party.
4. Either party may file the transcript for which he has
applied to the district clerk, and which has been delivered
to him; both of which facts must appear on the transcript
by the indorsement of the district clerk. If the indorse
ment shows that it was applied for by one party and de
livered to the other, it must be shown by the indorsement
of the clerk, or otherwise—to entitle it to be properly filed
as the transcript of the party to whom it was delivered—
that it was delivered to one by the consent of the other, as
each party has the sole right to the transcript which he
applied for to be made out for him; and if it is so filed,
without that fact being shown, the court may strike the
case from the docket as improperly filed, upon its own in
spection, or upon motion of the party to whom the transcript
belonged.
5. If both parties file transcripts within the proper time
(which they may do), and that of the appellant, or plaintiff
in error, is properly made and indorsed, it shall be regarded
by the court as the transcript of the record in the case, and
the court will grant the appellee, or defendant in error, leave
to withdraw that filed by him for his own use.
6. If but one party file his transcript in proper time, that
shall be regarded as the transcript of the record in the case.
7. From the time when the transcript properly made out
and indorsed is filed in the supreme court, it will cease to
belong to either party, but will become a record of the
court, subject to its control and disposition.
MoTIONs.
8. All motions relating to informalities in the manner of
bringing a case into the supreme court shall be filed and
entered by the clerk in the motion docket on or before the
second day of the assignment to which it is returnable;
otherwise, the ground of objection shall be considered as
waived, if it can be waived by the party; such filing and
docketing will be sufficient notice of the motion.
9. Motions to dismiss for want of jurisdiction of the
supreme court to try the case, and for such defects as defeat
the jurisdiction in the particular case, and cannot be waived,
shall also be made, filed, and docketed at said time, which
filing and docketing shall be notice of the motion; provided,
however, if made afterwards, they may be entertained by
the court, after such notice to the opposite party as the
court may deem proper to have been given under the cir
cumstances.
10. Motions, made either to sustain or defeat the juris
diction of the court, dependent on facts not apparent in the
record and not ex-officio known to the court, must be sup
ported by affidavits or other satisfactory evidence.
11. Motions for certiorari to perfect the record shall also
be made in the time required in rule 8. They must be
accompanied with a sworn statement showing a necessity
for the same—unless the record shows it—the filing and
docketing of which shall be notice of the same. If made
afterwards, it will be entertained only upon such terms and
upon such notice as the court may deem proper. Unless
reasons appear to vary the rule, the party applying, in all
cases, will be taxed with the costs.
12. Motions made to postpone the case to a future day
beyond the last day of assignment, or to continue it until
the next term, unless consented to by the opposite party,
shall be supported by sufficient cause, verified by affidavit,
unless such sufficient cause is apparent to the court.
13. The motion docket will be called on the third day of
the assignment, when the motions filed and docketed accord
ing to the preceding rules will be in order for submission, at
the instance of either party; and, if not submitted then,
may be submitted at the regular call of the trial docket,
unless sooner called up and disposed of.
14. The arguments of counsel upon all motions shall be
confined to a brief explanation of the grounds in the motion,
so as to make them intelligible to the court, with a refer
ence to the statutes and decisions relating thereto, unless
further argument is requested by the court.
15. The clerk, upon filing and docketing a motion, will
indorse upon the motion its number, and the number and
assignment of the case to which it belongs, which shall also
be entered in the motion docket, together with the attor
ney’s name who makes the motion. Any opposition in the
way of answer to said motion by the opposite party may be
filed, and in like manner indorsed and noted in the motion
docket, and the name of the attorney therein entered.
THE DOCKET.
16. The clerk, before the regular call of the trial docket
at each assignment, shall have the file number, and the
number of the assignment, indorsed on each transcript
belonging to such assignment; where briefs have been filed
in a case, the name of the attorney or attorneys signed to
the brief shall be entered by the clerk, on the trial docket,
opposite the name of the appropriate party, and that shall
indicate to the court who appears for such party in the
CauSe.
17. The clerk shall not make such entry of an attorney's
name until he shall have filed his briefs; but he shall per
mit any attorney who desires to make an appearance in the
case before he files his briefs, or, without filing them at all,
to place his name in his own handwriting upon the trial
docket, opposite the name of the party for whom he appears,
and that shall be regarded by the court as having whatever
effect is given to the mere appearance of a party to a case
in the court without brief filed.
18. The court will not enter upon the docket the names
of attorneys in a case, but counsel desiring their names
entered shall see that it is done under the foregoing rule
before the case is called.
19. Counsel desiring to call the attention of the court to
a case on the motion docket or trial docket not then called
in its regular order must, before doing so, provide himself
with the number of the case on the docket, and with the
number of the assignment also, if reference is to be made
to the trial docket.
CALLING THE DOCKET.
20. The trial docket will be called not sooner than the
fourth day of the assignment, in the regular order accord
ing to the filing of the cases as they stand on the docket,
commencing with the first of those that have not been pre
viously submitted, and will be twice called, if practicable,
during the time of the assignment, so that every case that
has been properly prepared for submission may be sub
mitted.
21. Upon the call of the trial docket either party may
submit a cause, if it appears to have been properly prepared
for submission on his part; unless for good cause the court
shall postpone the hearing to a further day within the
assignment, or, by agreement of counsel, to a future day of
the term beyond the assignment, which will not be done so
as to interfere with the business of any other assignment.
This rule is subject to exceptional cases given a prefer
ence to under some rule of the court, and to the action of
the court on motions for the postponement and continuance
of causes.
PREPARING A CAUSE FOR SUBMISSION.
22. A cause will be properly prepared for submission
only when a transcript of the record exhibits a cause pre
pared
for appeal
in accordance
with the rules prescribed
for
the government
of the district
court,
and filed in this court
under
the rules
thereof,
with briefs
of one or of both the
parties,
in accordance
with the rules of this court.
23. Said record
should
contain
an assignment
of errors
as required
by the statute.
Pasc.
Dig.,
Art. 1591.
If it does not, the court
will not consider
any error
but
one of law that may be apparent
upon
the record,
if the
judgment
is one that could
legally
have been rendered
in the
district
court,
and affirmed
in the supreme
court.
Pasc.
Dig.,
Art. 1581.
24. The assignment
of errors
must
distinctly
specify
the
grounds
of error
relied
on, and a ground
of error
not dis
tinctly
specified
in reference
to that which
is shown
in the
record,
or not specified
at all, shall be considered
as waived,
unless
it be so fundamental
as that the court
would
act
upon it without
an assignment
of errors,
as mentioned
in
rule 23. Pasc.
Dig.,
Art. 1591.
25. To be a distinct
specification
of error,
it must
point
out that part of the proceedings
contained
in the record
in
which
the error
is complained
of, in a particular
manner,
so
as to identify
it—whether
it be the rulings
of the court
upon
a motion,
or upon any particular
part of the pleadings;
upon
the admission
or the rejection
of evidence,
or upon
any
other
matter
relating
to the cause
or its trial;
or the portion
of the charge
given
or refused;
the fact or facts
in issue
which
the evidence
was incompetent
or insufficient
to prove;
the insufficiency
of the verdict
or finding
of the jury,
if
special;
and the particular
matter
in which
the judgment
is
erroneous
or illegal—with
such reasonable
certainty
as may
be practicable,
in a succinct
and clear statement
considering
the matter
referred
to.
26. Assignments
of error
which
are expressed
only in
such general
terms
as that the court
erred
in its rulings
upon
the pleadings,
when
there
are more
than one; or in its
charge,
when
there
are a number
of charges;
or the verdict
is contrary to law, or to the charge of the court; and the
like, without referring to, and identifying, the proceeding,
will not be regarded by the court as a compliance with the
statute requiring the grounds to be distinctly specified, and
will be considered as a waiver of errors, the same as if no
assignment of errors had been attempted to be filed.
27. When a cause has been submitted to the judge upon
the law and facts, and a judgment has been rendered, the
foregoing rule as to assignments of error shall be complied
with as far as practicable, considering that there are no
charges or findings of the jury in the record. And this
rule shall also apply to assignments of error in an “agreed
case” under the statute. Pasc. Dig., Art. 1516.
28. There will be no assignment of errors allowed in this
court when none has been filed in the district court, unless
by consent of parties.
BRIEFS.
29. The appellant, or plaintiff in error, in order to pre
pare properly a case for submission when called, shall have
filed a brief of the points relied on, in accordance with, and
confined to, the distinct specifications of error contained in
his assignments of error, and such fundamental errors of
law as are apparent upon the record, each ground of error
being separately presented, and being numbered as the
assignments of errors are numbered; and each and every
one not so separately presented shall be regarded as
abandoned.
30. The appellant, or plaintiff in error, in preparing his
brief, shall make a general and succinct statement of the
nature and result of the suit as an introduction, which may
be omitted in an agreed case under the statute (Pasc. Dig.,
Art. 1516), and then each point under each one of the
assignments relied on shall be stated in the shape of a
proposition, unless the assignment is itself in the shape of a
proposition
to be maintained,
and then it will be sufficient
to copy the assignment.
31. To each one of said propositions
there
shall
be sub
joined
a brief
statement
in substance
of such proceedings,
or part thereof,
contained
in the record,
as will be neces
sary and sufficient
to explain
and support
the proposition,
with a reference
to the pages
of the record.
This
state
ment
must
be made
faithfully,
in reference
to the whole
of that which
is in the record
having
a bearing
upon
said
proposition,
upon the professional
responsibility
of the coun
sel who makes
it, without
copying
the record,
and without
intermixing
it with arguments,
reasons,
conclusions,
or infer
ences.
32. The propositions,
if more
than one under
one ground
of the assignment,
shall
refer
to it, and be stated
sepa
rately.
33. In a proposition
relating
to the error
of the court
in
overruling
a motion
for a new trial,
or to arrest
the judg
ment,
in which
there
are several
grounds,
the particular
ground
or grounds
should
be referred
to, with the appropri
ate explanation,
and, if the same
grounds
of error
have
been presented
in other
propositions,
it will be unnecessary
to repeat
them.
34. In propositions
relating
to fundamental
errors
of law
apparent
upon
the record,
enough
must
be stated
to make
the error
of law which
pervades
the case obviously
appar
ent, without
requiring
the court
to search
through
the
record
to find errors,
which
they will not do unless
prop
erly pointed
out, if the judgment
is one which
the district
court
is competent
to render
in such a case.
35. When
the assignments
of error
are numerous,
coun
sel should
present
propositions
on those
which
are most
important
in the determination
of the case, waiving
those
that cannot
control
the result
of the decision
of this court,
amongst
which
may be classed
those
involving
questions
of
fact, wherein the evidence is so preponderating, or so con
flicting, as that this court, under its previously well-estab
lished rules of decision, would not set aside the verdict of
the jury or judgment of the court upon them.
36. There should be annexed to each proposition with
its statement, and at the end of it, without argument or
comment, a reference simply to the authorities relied on, if
any, in support of it, in the following order, to wit: The
statutes and decisions of this state; the statutes and decis
ions of the United States, if they are applicable to the case;
elementary authorities; other decisions in the American
and English courts. In citing decisions, those most nearly
in point should be cited first, and they should not, usually
at least, be so numerous as to require a waste of time in
their examination.
37. The brief of appellant, or plaintiff in error, framed
in accordance with these rules, must be signed by the party
or his counsel, and, if by counsel, it shall appear for and on
behalf of what party or parties, by name, it is signed. A
copy of it shall be filed in the district court, to be there
kept with the papers of the cause, at least ten days before
the first day of the assignment of the term of the court to
which the case is returnable, which fact, with its date, shall
be evidenced by the certificate of the clerk of the district
court indorsed on another copy of the brief, which copy of
the brief, with its indorsement, shall be filed in the supreme
court on the first day of the said assignment, there to remain
with the transcript; and a copy thereof for each of the jus
tices of the court shall be filed before the hearing, plainly
written or printed, and, if it is more than eight pages of fools
cap, it shall be printed.
38. Such brief may be amended by a citation of addi
tional authorities to the respective points or propositions
made in it, which must be filed in the supreme court and
notice of it given to the counsel for the opposite party, if
in attendance, one day before the case is called. No other
amendment
to the brief shall be allowed
by the court
unless
it is or can be done without
injustice
or unreasonable
incon
venience
being
thereby
imposed
on the other
party.
39. The failure
of appellant,
or plaintiff
in error,
to file
an assignment
of errors
and briefs
in the district
court
and
in the supreme
court
in the time and in the manner
pre
scribed
by law, and by the rules
of the district
and supreme
courts
relating
thereto,
shall
be ground
for dismissing
the
appeal
or writ of error
for want of prosecution,
by motion
made
by appellee,
or defendant
in error,
as other
motions
under
rule 8 of this court,
unless
good
cause
is shown
why it was not done in the time and manner
as prescribed,
and that they have been filed at such time and under
such
circumstances
as that the appellee,
or defendant
in error,
has reasonably
not suffered
any material
injury
in the
defense
of the case in the supreme
court;
in deciding
said
motion
the court
will give such direction
to the case as will
cause
the least inconvenience
or damage
from such
failure,
so far as practicable.
40. When
it shall be found
that the rules
prescribed
for
the preparation
of a case for submission
have
been
fully
complied
with by the appellant,
or plaintiff
in error,
the
court
will, in its discretion,
regard
this brief
as a proper
presentation
of the case,
without
an examination
of the
record
as contained
in the transcript,
and may found
its
decision
thereon,
unless
the appellee,
or defendant
in error,
shall,
by the time of calling
of the docket
on the fourth
day (during
which
time he shall
have
the custody
of the
transcript),
file in the supreme
court
his brief,
to be there
kept
with
the transcript,
containing
his objections,
suc
cinctly
and definitely,
to the grounds
of error
as presented
in the propositions
of appellant,
or plaintiff
in error,
in his
brief,
taking
up each of them
in order,
and stating
such
other
matters
contained
in the record,
in the mode
pre
scribed
for appellant
and plaintiff
in error,
as may sustain
his objection
to each;
to which
may be added
propositions
of his own, supported by like statements of what is in the
record, so as to present his view of the case, citing the pro
ceedings in the transcript, with the pages when practicable,
to which he refers in his statements.
41. Whatever of the statements of the appellant, or
plaintiff in error, in his brief is not contested will be con
sidered as acquiesced in. To each of his said objections or
propositions may be annexed his authorities cited in the
order indicated for the brief of appellant, or plaintiff in
-error".
42. A copy of each brief, plainly written or printed,
shall be filed for each one of the justices of the supreme
Court.
43. When appellant, or plaintiff in error, has failed to
prepare the case for submission, by the omission of what
is required after bond or affidavit filed for appeal, and for
writ of error with citation served, the appellee, on the sec
ond day of assignment, or afterwards before the call of the
docket on the fourth day, may file in the supreme court a
brief in the manner required of the appellant, or plaintiff in
error, except that his propositions will be shaped so as to
show the correctness of the judgment, which the court may,
in its discretion, regard as a correct presentation of the
case, without examining the record further than to see that
the judgment is one that can be affirmed upon the view of
the case as presented by appellee, or defendant in error.
During the time provided for filing his brief he shall be
entitled to the custody of the record.
44. The appellee, or defendant in error, may submit the
record upon a suggestion of delay, upon making a brief
statement of the character of the suit, the proceedings
therein, and the judgment rendered, which will be required
in every case of such submission when appellant, or plaintiff
in error, has filed no brief. If this is done in a case prop
erly prepared for submission by appellant, or plaintiff in
error, it will be considered an acquiescence in the statement
of appellant, or plaintiff in error, in his brief, as to the con
tents of the record, and as merely a denial of the legal con
sequences contended for by the appellant, or plaintiff in
error, unless the appellee, or defendant in error, shall also
file a brief as heretofore provided, which he may do. If
the appellant, or plaintiff in error, has not prepared the case
for submission, the record will be examined sufficiently to
ascertain that it is or is not properly a delay case, and, if
found to be a plain case of delay, it will be acted on as
such, but, if not, it will be reversed or referred back for a
brief, or brief and argument, on one or both sides, as may
be directed. In deciding under this rule, where the case
has not been prepared for submission by the appellant, or
plaintiff in error, the court will be required to look only to
the substantial merits as they may appear in the record.
45. In an appeal or writ of error sent up to this court
for affirmance on certificate there need be nothing more
than a request for affirmance, signed by the party or his
counsel. It shall not be submitted sooner than one week
after being filed in this court, if the court should be in ses
sion that length of time. The appellee, or defendant in
error, may be heard on a motion to dismiss the certificate,
or on a motion to file the transcript of the record, or on a
motion to set aside the judgment rendered in this court, as
in other cases of rehearing.
DEFECTIVE BRIEF.
46. In all cases wherein the brief or briefs are found
insufficient and not satisfactory, either in a proper presenta
tion of the facts or proceedings in the case, or in the ref
erence to the authorities, so as to enable the court to decide
the case, the court may set aside the submission and refer
it back, with such orders for postponement, filing of briefs,
reference to authorities, by one or both parties, and reargu
ments, written or oral, as may be deemed proper. If,
however, one party has fully complied with the rules, and
has filed a satisfactory brief that will enable the court to
decide the case, and the other party is in default, and has
not filed a satisfactory brief in accordance with the rules,
the court may, in its discretion, disregard the latter party’s
brief as if not filed in the case, and act upon that alone
which has been properly filed in accordance with the rules.
AGREEMENTS OF COUNSEL.
47. All agreements of parties or their counsel, relating
either to the merits or conduct of the case in this court, or
in reference to a waiver of any of the requirements pre
scribed by the rules of the district or supreme court, look
ing to the proper preparation of an appeal or writ of error
for a submission in the supreme court, shall be in writing,
signed by the parties or their counsel, and filed with the
transcript or be contained in it, and, to the extent that such
agreement may vary the regular order of proceeding, shall
be subject to such orders of this court as may be necessary
to secure a proper preparation for a submission of the case
in the supreme court.
ARGUMENTS OF COUNSEL.
48. When the case is properly prepared for submission in
the supreme court, any party who has filed briefs in accord
ance with the rules prescribed therefor may, upon the
call of the case, either at the regular call of the docket or
when it may have been set for a call, submit an argument to
the court, either oral or plainly written or printed, which, if
written or printed, may be left on file with the transcript,
copies of which need not be furnished.
49. The arguments must be upon the disputed points,
whether of law or fact, in support of the propositions relied
on, on one side, and objections and counter-propositions On
the other, and it must be confined to them, avoiding any
reference or comment upon positions taken in the district
court, or to other extraneous matters not involved in, or
pertaining to, that which is found in the record.
50. In referring to statutes, that part directly bearing
upon, or relevant to, the position should be read at the bar,
or stated in the written or printed arguments; and, in citing
elementary books or decisions of courts, the principle should
be stated, or so much should be read or stated in the written
argument as bears directly on, or tends to maintain, the
proposition for which it is cited in the brief.
51. After the case has been presented to the court by
such explanation as may be necessary, each side may be
allowed an hour in argument at the bar, with twenty
minutes more in conclusion by the appellant; and, after
being so presented, if the magnitude or importance of the
case or the difficulty of the questions seem to require it, a
longer time may be allowed. Not more than two counsel
on each side will be heard except upon leave of the court.
52. If counsel for but one party has filed briefs, an argu
ment by him may be allowed, conformably to the preceding
rules as nearly as practicable, under the direction of the
court. -
53. Counsel who argue a case at the bar will be expected
to be able to answer questions propounded by the members
of the court, relating to the matters contained in the record,
and to the laws or authorities cited in the argument.
54. Should it be apparent, during the progress of the
trial or afterwards, that the case has not been properly
prepared, as shown in the transcript, or properly presented
in the brief or briefs; or that the law and authorities have not
been properly cited which will enable the court to decide
the case, it may decline to receive the submission, or, if
received, may set it aside and make such orders as may be
necessary to secure a more satisfactory submission of the
C3Se.
55. When
a case has been
properly
prepared
for submis
sion,
and a satisfactory
oral
argument
has been
made,
the
court
will promptly
announce
its judgment,
if practicable,
at the next succeeding
session
of the court,
and, when
deemed
necessary,
deliver
a written
opinion,
if not then,
at some
time
during
the term
of the court.
ADVANCING
CASES.
56. All cases
that have
been,
or may be, returned
to the
supreme
court,
on notice
of appeal
given
or petition
for
writ
of error,
filed
before
March
1, 1878,
whether
previous
to that
time
they
have
been
submitted
or not,
may
be
advanced
and called
in their
order
on the docket
of the
assignment,
which
may
be done
in the following
manner,
to wit:
The appellant,
or plaintiff
in error,
shall
file in the
supreme
court
a motion
to set aside
the submission
(if one
has been
made),
and to advance
the case,
and also thereto
annex
his brief
of the case,
made
in conformity
to the rules
of this court,
from
29 to 45, both
inclusive,
and cause
a
copy
of the motion
and brief
thus
filed
to be served
on the
appellee,
or defendant
in error,
or upon
his attorney
of
record
in the supreme
court,
if there
are any such,
twenty
days
before
the first
day of assignment
to which
the case
belongs,
which
fact shall
be evidenced
by a copy
of the
motion
and brief
with
the service
by a sheriff,
or by some
credible
person
under
oath,
sworn
to before
some
officer
having
a seal of office,
or by acceptance
of service
by said
counsel
or the party,
indorsed
thereon,
and filed
in the
supreme
court.
Said
motion
shall
be filed,
indorsed,
and
docketed
by the clerk,
and presented
as other
motions
under
rule 13 of this court,
when
the court,
upon
being
satisfied
of the filing
and service
of the motion
and brief,
and that
said
brief
has been
made
in conformity
to the rules,
after
hearing
any opposition
thereto
that may have
been
filed
in
writing
to said
motion,
may
make
such
orders
as may be
necessary to give the appellee, or defendant in error, an
opportunity to file his brief of objections and counter-propo
sitions, according to the rules applicable to the same, which
he may do under rule 40 of this court.
57. Should the appellant, or plaintiff in error, have failed
to file in the supreme court a motion and brief as specified
in the preceding rule, and have it served as therein directed,
the appellee, or defendant in error, may file in the supreme
court his motion to set aside the submission of the case,
and have the same served and returned in like manner as
stated in the preceding rule, and filed in the supreme court
on or before the fifth day before the first day of the assign
ment, which shall be filed, indorsed, and docketed by the
clerk as other motions, and may be presented to the court
under rule 13 of this court, when the court, being satis
fied of the filing, service of the motion and brief, and that
the brief has been made in conformity with the rules (see
rule 43), after hearing any opposition that may have been
filed in writing thereto, if any has been filed, may make
such orders as may be necessary to give the appellant, or
plaintiff in error, an opportunity to file a brief contesting
that filed by the other party in matters of fact or law, con
forming as nearly as practicable to the rules prescribed for
framing briefs.
58. When the cause has been prepared as prescribed
under the preceding rules, the submission, if any, may be
set aside, and the case may be called as nearly as practicable
in its order as it stands on the docket, and shall be tried in
the same manner, with the same arguments, and with the
same rules in reference to its decision as other cases that
have been prepared for submission under the foregoing
rules of this court.
ORDER OF PRECEDENCE.
59. During the calling of an assignment the following
cases, whether previously submitted or not, shall have
precedence when the attention of the court is called to them
by a motion made and filed in the court specifying the
nature of the case, to wit: first, cases which relate to the
administration of the government, or of general public
interest, or appeals, or suits of review in administration
cases; second, cases in which the attorneys will agree upon
the points of law or of fact involved in the record, make a
clear and succinct statement of the same, with such other
matters in connection therewith as will enable the court
readily to understand the case, and will make briefs citing
the statutes and other authorities upon the points agreed
on to be at issue between them, and will have such agreed
statement, together with their briefs, printed in pamphlet
form, so as to furnish the justices of the supreme court and
the opposite party with copies thereof. This rule will
supersede, and stand in place of, the rule of this court
adopted at Galveston on January 18, 1877.
CUSTODY OF TRANSCRIPT.
60. Neither the transcript nor any of the papers in a case
shall be withdrawn from the custody of the clerk, nor
taken from his office or the court-room, without a receipt
left therefor.
61. Cases, after submission, are no longer under the con
trol of the attorneys, and the clerk will not let the tran
scripts of such cases go out of his office, if deposited there,
except on the order of one of the justices of the court.
62. Original papers sent up with the transcript by order
of the district court, for the inspection of the supreme court,
will be retained in the office, and not allowed to go out of
the custody of the clerk of the supreme court, except by
order of one of the justices of the court, which order must
be filed with the papers of the cause.
63. The clerk shall furnish the parties and counsel with
an opportunity, when reasonably applied to for that pur
pose, to inspect the records, judgments, papers, opinions,
books, and dockets in his office in which they may be inter
ested; but he shall not be required to permit copies thereof
to be taken without his consent. He shall, upon tender of
reasonable compensation, give certified copies of the records
of his office.
64. The clerk shall be responsible for every transcript
or other paper in a cause that is missing from his office,
unless he can produce the receipt of an attorney for the
same, or otherwise show by satisfactory evidence that some
one took it from his custody or from the court-room without
his consent, or that said transcript had passed into the hands
of one of the justices of the court and had not been returned
to his custody. -
65. No attorney shall take a transcript or other paper
belonging to the case from the court-room or the office of
the clerk without leaving a receipt therefor with the clerk.
And no attorney shall take, or suffer to be taken, any tran
script or other paper for which he has receipted out of the
reach of the court, so that it cannot be produced in court
or in the clerk’s office when it is needed.
66. The reporter shall have access to the minutes, judg
ments, transcripts, and briefs filed therewith, and opinions
in the cases decided.
REHEARING IN THE SUPREME COURT.
67. Motions for rehearing shall be made and conducted
strictly in accordance with the statute, which * describes
fully the manner of this proceeding. Gen. Laws 1874,
Acts Fourteenth Legislature, 215.
MANDATE.
68. After the expiration of fifteen days from the date of
a judgment rendered in any case in the supreme court, if
there has been no motion made for a rehearing, the clerk
may issue a mandate to the district court, and not before
that time, except by order of the court made upon a motion
in writing by one party, and agreed to by the other.
69. The clerk of this court, upon being presented with a
certificate of any district clerk that an appeal has been per
fected, or the citation or citations in a writ of error have
been served, in any case decided in the district court, more
than twenty days before the first day of the assignment of
the term of the supreme court at which said appeal or writ
of error was returnable, and, if no such case has been filed
in the supreme court at any time during said term, the
clerk of the supreme court, shall, at the end of that time,
certify that fact, upon being paid the usual fees for such
certificate, and file the certificate of the district court in his
office, indorsed with the date of his certificate and filing.
LICENSE OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS AT LAW.
70. Licenses to practice law in the supreme court may
the obtained in several ways, to wit:
First. By application to the clerk of the supreme court
when the party has a license from a district court of the state
of Texas. Acts Thirteenth Legislature (1873), 39.
Second. By application to the supreme court of an
immigrant lawyer from another state. Pasc. Dig., Art. 171.
Third. By application to the supreme court, with a cer
tificate from the county court, and an examination by a com
mittee. Pasc. Dig., Arts. 167, 170.
Under each of these modes there must be an application
in writing, accompanied with the evidence of moral charac
ter and honorable deportment, in addition to the other
things specified in said acts of the legislature.
71. When the application is made under the third mode
prescribed in the preceding rule, an examination will be
made under the direction of the supreme court, and it will
be expected that the applicant shall have studied Blackstone’s
Commentaries; Kent’s Commentaries; Stephen, Gould, or
Chitty on Pleadings; Story's Equity Pleading; 1 Greenleaf,
Starkie, or Phillips on Evidence; Parsons, Story, or Chitty
on Contracts; Story, Parsons, or Daniel on Promissory
Notes; Story or Gow on Partnership; Story's Equity Juris
prudence or Adams' Equity, or works of like character in
each department of the law, and must have some general
knowledge of the constitution and statutes of the state, and
of the rules of the district and supreme courts of the state.
72. The rules for the government of the supreme court
heretofore made and published shall be superseded from
and after the time when these rules shall go into effect.
73. The foregoing rules shall go into effect and be of
force on and from March 1, 1878, and all cases wherein
notice of appeal is given, or petition for writ of error is filed,
after that date shall be brought into the supreme court
under, and in accordance with, these rules; provided, the
rules 56, 57, and 58 of the supreme court, whose object is
to advance cases heretofore submitted, and others as therein
prescribed, shall go into effect on December 1, 1877.
74. The rules prescribed for the government of the
supreme court shall apply also to the court of appeals in
civil causes.
75. The clerks of the court of appeals shall be governed
by the rules applicable to the clerks of the supreme court,
except in criminal cases, in which a different rule may be
prescribed by statute.
76. In all criminal cases, as well as in civil, the rules
governing motions, arguments of counsel, and applications
for certiorari to complete the record, as prescribed for the
supreme court, shall apply to the court of appeals.
77. When a defendant in felony cases shall have escaped
after notice of appeal, the court of appeals may act in dis
missing the appeal upon satisfactory evidence of that fact,
by affidavit of the sheriff, clerk, county or district attorney,
communicated through the attorney general at Austin to
said court; and it shall be the duty of the county or district
attorney to see that such information is transmitted to the
attorney general.
1. The pleadings in the district court shall, as prescribed
by statute, be by petition and answer.
2. Pleadings, with the exception of those presenting
issues of law, must be a statement of facts, in contradistinc
tion to a statement of evidence, of legal conlusions and of
arguments. Facts are adequately represented by terms
and modes of expressions wrought out by long judicial
experience, perpetuated in books of forms, in law and
equity, which, though not authoritatively requisite, may
generally be adopted as safe guides in pleadings. In case
of a violation of this rule to such an extent as to produce
confusion, uncertainty, and unnecessary length in pleading,
the court may require the matter set up to be repleaded, so
as to exclude the superfluous parts of it from the record.
THE PETITION.
3. The petition of plaintiff shall consist of an original
petition, and such supplemental petitions as may be neces
sary in the course of pleading by the parties to the suit, to
enable the plaintiff to state all the facts presenting his
cause of action, and such other facts as may be required to
rebut the facts that may be set up in the original and sup
plemental answer as pleaded by the defendant. The
original petition and the supplemental petitions shall be
indorsed so as to show their respective positions in the
process of pleading, as “original petition,” “plaintiff’s
first supplemental petition,” “plaintiff’s second supple
mental petition,” and so on, to be successively numbered,
named, and indorsed.
ORIGINAL PETITION.
4. The plaintiff, in the original petition, in addition to
the names and residences of the parties and the relief
sought, may state all of his facts, so as to present together
different combinations of facts amounting to a cause or
causes of action, as has been the usual practice; or he may
state the cause or causes of action in several different
counts, each within itself presenting a combination of facts
specifically amounting to a single cause of action, which,
when so drawn, shall be numbered, so that an issue may be
formed on each one by the answer.
PLAINTIFF's SUPPLEMENTAL PETITION.
5. The plaintiff’s supplemental petitions may contain
exceptions, general denial, and the allegations of new facts,
not before alleged by him, in reply to those which have
been alleged by the defendant.
THE ANSWER.
6. The answer of defendant shall consist of an original
answer, and such supplemental answers as may be neces
sary in the course of pleading by the parties to the suit, to
enable the defendant to state all of the exceptions and facts
presenting his defense as contained in his original answer,
or his cross-action if one be set up in the original answer,
and such other facts as may be required to rebut the facts
that may be stated in the original and supplemental peti
tions as pleaded by the plaintiff. The original answer and
the supplemental answers shall be indorsed so as to show
their respective positions in the process of pleading, as
“original answer,” “defendant’s first supplemental an
swer,” “defendant’s second supplemental answer,” and so
on, to be successively numbered, named, and indorsed.
ORIGINAL ANSWER.
7. The original answer may consist of pleas to the juris
diction, in abatement, of privilege, or any other dilatory
pleas; of exceptions, general and special; of general denial;
and any other facts in defense by way of avoidance or
estoppel, the same being pleaded in the due order of plead
ing as required by statute; and it may present a cross
action, which, to that extent, will place defendant in the
attitude of a plaintiff. Facts in avoidance and estoppel
may be stated together, or in several special pleas, each
presenting a distinct defense, and numbered so as to admit of
separate issues to be formed on them.
SUPPLEMENTAL ANSWERS.
8. The defendant's supplemental answers may contain
exceptions, general denial, and the allegations of new facts,
not before alleged by him, in reply to that which has been
alleged by the plaintiff.
9. The original petition, first supplemental petition, sec
ond supplemental petition, and every other, shall each be
contained in one instrument of writing, and so with the
original answer and each of the supplemental answers.
10. Each supplemental petition or answer, made by either
party, shall be a response to the last preceding pleading by
the other party, and shall not repeat the facts formerly
pleaded, further than is necessary as an introduction to that
which is stated in the pleading then being drawn up. These
instruments, to wit, the original petition and its several
supplements, and the original answer and its several supple
ments, shall respectively constitute separate and distinct
parts of the pleadings of each party, and the position and
identity, by number and name, with the indorsement of
each instrument, shall be preserved throughout the plead
ings of each party.
11. Each party who files a supplement of any number
(as first, second, third, and so on) shall give notice thereof
by asking leave of the court, and filing the same amongst
the papers of the cause, with the appropriate indorsement
thereon, indicating its number and name.
AMENDMENT.
12. An amendment may be made by either party, upon
leave of court for that purpose, the object of an amend
ment, as contradistinguished from a supplemental petition
or answer, being to add something to, or withdraw some
thing from, that which has been previously pleaded, so as
to perfect that which is, or may be, deficient, or to correct
that which has been incorrectly stated by the party making
the amendment.
13. The party amending shall point out the instrument,
with its date, sought to be amended, as “original petition,”
or “plaintiff’s first supplemental petition,” or others filed
by the plaintiff; or as “original answer,” or “defendant's
first supplemental answer,” or others filed by the defend
ant, and amend such instrument by preparing and filing a
substitute therefor, entire and complete in itself, to be
styled and indorsed, “amended original petition,” or
“amended first supplemental petition;” or “amended
original answer,” or “amended first supplemental answer,”
and so on, accordingly as said instruments of pleading are
designated in rules 3 and 6.
14. Unless the substituted instrument shall be set aside
on exceptions for a departure in pleading, or on some other
ground, the instrument for which it is substituted shall no
longer be regarded as a part of the pleading in the record
of the cause, unless some error of the court in deciding
upon the necessity of the amendment, or otherwise in super
seding it, be complained of, and it is presented in a bill of
exceptions.
15. When either party may have occasion to plead new
facts additional to those formerly pleaded by him, which
constitute an additional cause of action or defense per
missible in the suit, he shall present it as an amendment to
the original petition or original answer (unless it is in its
nature a response to some pleading of the opposite party),
by substitution, with the proper number, name, and in
dorsement, in the same manner as other amendments.
16. When either supplement or amendment made to
pleading is of such a character, and is presented at such
time, as to take the opposite party by surprise (to be judged
of by the court), it shall be cause for imposing the cost of
the term upon, and charging the continuance of the cause
(both or either) to, the party causing the surprise, if the
other party demand it, and shall make a satisfactory
showing, or if it otherwise be apparent that he is not ready
for trial on account of said supplement or amendment
being allowed to be filed by the court.
EXCEPTIONS TO PLEADING.
17. General exceptions shall point out the particular
instrument in the pleading, to wit, the original petition or
answer, or the respective supplements to either, it being the
last preceding instrument filed by the opposite party; and,
in passing upon such general exception, every reasonable
intendment arising upon the pleading excepted to shall be
indulged in favor of its sufficiency.
18. A special exception shall not only point out the par
ticular pleading excepted to, but it shall also point out
intelligibly the obscurity, inconsistency, duplicity, gener
ality, or other insufficiency in the allegations in the plead
ing objected to. The general expression that it is vague,
uncertain, and the like, alone, shall be regarded as no more
than a general exception. -
EXHIBIT IN PLEADING.
19. Notes, accounts, bonds, mortgages, records, and all
other written instruments, constituting, in whole or in part,
the cause of action sued on or the matter set up in defense,
may be made a part of the pleadings, by copies thereof or
the originals being attached, and referred to as such, in aid
and explanation of the allegations in the petition or answer
made in reference to said instruments, but will not thereby
relieve the pleader from making the proper allegations of
which said exhibits may be the evidence, in whole or in part.
No other instrument of writing, such as a deed, will, docu
ment, record of court, or agreement, which is not sued on
as a cause of action by plaintiff, or set up as matter relied
on in defense by defendant, but is designed to be used only
as evidence of some fact that is alleged, shall be made an
exhibit in pleading; and when it shall be so attempted, by
attaching such instrument and referring to it as such, the
court will, of its own motion, or at the instance of a party,
cause the instrument to be detached from the pleading, and
adjudge it to constitute no part thereof, by an order of
court entered of record, at the cost of the party violating
this rule; so as to prevent the pleadings from being incum
bered with that which is, or may be, only evidence in the
CaSe.
20. The office of a general denial by defendant is to throw
the burden of proof as to the allegation denied on the
plaintiff. The defendant cannot be permitted under this
plea to introduce special matters, in avoidance of estoppel,
in evidence for his defense. And the same rule prevails,
when it is filed by plaintiff, to facts in the cross-action or
answer of defendant.
MOTIONS.
21. The clerk shall keep a motion docket, in which all
motions, when filed, shall be placed, with the names of the
parties and counsel, with the date of filing, and its number
and the number of the case; which filing shall be considered
notice of said motion before the continuance or final dispo
sition of the case for the term, except where it is otherwise
provided for by statute.
22. The court will set apart a particular day each week of
the term when the motions previously made, in which
proper notice has been given, shall be determined, if urged,
unless for good cause they are postponed to a day during
the term, or continued by consent to the next term.
23. When notice shall be given of objections to the form
or manner of taking and returning depositions, either party
may require it to be put on the motion docket and tried as
other motions; provided, if not tried sooner, it shall be
decided before either party shall be required to announce
readiness for trial on the facts.
-
DILATORY PLEAS, MOTIONS, AND EXCEPTIONS WHICH DO NOT
GO TO THE MERITS OF THE CAUSE.
24. All dilatory pleas, and all motions and exceptions
relating to a suit pending, which do not go to the merits of
the case shall be tried at the first term to which the attention
of the court shall be called to the same, unless passed by
agreement of parties, with the consent of the court; and all
such pleas and motions shall be first called and disposed of
before the main issue on the merits is tried. -
25. All motions which go to the merits of the case, and
all exceptions, general and special, which relate to the sub
stance or to the form of the pleadings, shall be decided at
the first term of the court, when the case is called in the
regular order for trial on the docket, if reached, whether
there be an announcement on the facts or not, unless passed
by agreement of parties, with the consent of the court.
CALL FOR TRIAL.
26. When the case is called for trial, the exceptions, if
any remain undisposed of, shall be presented for deter
mination, and shall then be decided before proceeding to the
trial of the case on the facts, and, if not presented, they
shall be adjudged by the court to have been waived, and
shall be so entered on the minutes of the court, the cost of
filing to be taxed against the party filing them, and they
shall constitute no part of the final record unless some
question be raised upon the action of the court in reference
to them, and they are presented in a bill of exceptions.
27. When the exceptions have been presented and decided,
leave may be granted to either or both parties to file an
amendment, in one instrument of writing, separate from
those which had been previously filed by each, which shall
close the pleadings in the case, to be then determined by the
court, so as to decide all the questions of sufficiency arising
upon them. In making this amendment the party shall
refer distinctly to such instrument as he desires to amend,
by name and number, as in the other amendments, without
repleading the whole of it, but shall succinctly state such
additional facts to be added thereto as he may desire, and
this amendment shall be styled and indorsed “plaintiff’s
or defendant’s trial amendment;” but, if the case should
not be then tried, the party or parties shall replead, as in
other cases of amendment.
28. When the questions of law, if any, have been deter
mined by the court, the judge may, before proceeding to
trial, by the aid of the counsel, have the pleadings that have
been held sufficient, or have not been excepted to, read over,
if deemed necessary, and may make a brief memorandum
of the facts stated or issues presented in the pleadings,
and may read them out before the trial commences, so as to
inform the parties of the view which is entertained by the
judge of the matters of fact in issue as presented by their
pleadings.
29. The court, when deemed necessary in any case, may
order a repleader, on the part of one or both of the par
ties, in order to make their pleadings substantially conform
to the rules.
30. These rules of pleading shall apply equally, so far as
it may be practicable to apply them, to intervenors and to
parties, when more than one, who may plead separately.
TRIAL OF THE CASE.
31. The plaintiff shall have the right to open and con
clude, both in adducing his evidence and in the argument,
unless the defendant, and all of the defendants if there
should be more than one, shall, after the issues of fact are
settled and before the trial commences, admit that the
plaintiff has a good cause of action as set forth in the peti
tion, except so far as it may be defeated, in whole or in
part, by the facts of the answer constituting a good defense,
which may be established on the trial; which admission
shall be entered of record, when the defendant, and the
defendants if more than one, shall have the right to open
and conclude in adducing the evidence and in the argument
of the cause.
32. The court shall not be required to allow a case to go
to trial on the facts, when the pleadings on either or both
sides are obviously so defective as that a material issue or
issues have not been formed, upon the finding on which no
legal judgment could be rendered; and in such case the
court shall call the attention of the parties to such imma
terial or defective issue or issues, so that the time of the
court may not be wasted in trying them. The party in
default may then waive his pleading thus found obviously
defective, which shall be noted on the minutes of the court,
and proceed with the case, should there be other material
issues or issue, or he may take the proper steps to amend
his defective pleading, under the rules prescribed for amend
ments, and upon such reasonable terms as the court may
impose.
33. A party who abandons any part of his cause of action
or defense, as contained in the pleadings, may have that
fact entered of record, so as to show that the matters there
in were not tried, and he shall be taxed with the cost
incurred upon such pleading so abandoned. He shall also
be taxed with the cost incurred upon pleading in support of
which no evidence was offered, to be determined by the
court, on motion, at the term of the trial, and not after
wards.
COUNSEL AND ARGUMENTS.
34. Counsel for plaintiff or for defendant, when he holds
the affirmative of the issue, shall have the right to open and
conclude; but, if he waives the right of opening the argu
ment, he shall not have the right to conclude. This rule
will apply to motions, exceptions to evidence, and all other
matters presented to the court, except in rules to show
oause, in which the party called on shall begin and end his
CauSe.
• 35. An application for first continuance shall not be
argued.
36. In all arguments, and especially in arguments on the
trial of the case, the counsel opening shall present his whole
case as he relies on it, both of law and facts, and shall be
heard in the concluding argument only in reply to the coun
sel on the other side.
37. Counsel for an intervenor shall occupy the position in
the argument assigned by the court, according to the nature
of the claim.
38. Arguments on questions of law shall be addressed to
the court, and counsel should state the substance of the
authorities referred to without reading more from books
than may be necessary to verify the statement. On a ques
tion on motions, exceptions to the evidence, and other inci
dental matters, the counsel will be allowed only such argu
ment as may be necessary to present clearly the question
raised, and refer to authorities on it, unless further discus
sion is invited by the court
39. Arguments on the facts should be addressed to the
jury, when one is impaneled in a case that is being tried,
under the supervision of the court. Counsel shall be
required to confine the argument strictly to the evidence
and to the arguments of opposing counsel. Mere personal
criticism by counsel upon each other shall be avoided, and,
when indulged in, shall be promptly corrected as a con
tempt of court. -
40. Side-bar remarks and remarks by counsel of one
side, not addressed to the court, while the counsel on the
other is examining a witness, or arguing any question to
the court, or addressing the jury, will be rigidly repressed
by the court
41. The court will not be required to wait for objections
to be made when the rules as to arguments are violated,
but, should they not be noticed and corrected by the court,
opposing counsel may ask leave of the court to rise and
present his point of objection. But the court shall protect
counsel from any unnecessary interruption made on frivo
lous and unimportant grounds.
42. It shall be the duty of every counsel to address the
court from his place at the bar, and, in addressing the
court, to arise to his feet, unless already standing; and,
while engaged in the trial of a case, he shall remain at his
place in the bar.
43. But one counsel on each side shall examine and cross
examine the same witness, except on leave granted.
44. Not more than two counsel on each side shall be
heard on any question, or on the trial, except in important
cases, and upon special leave of the court.
45. The attorney first employed shall be considered the
leading counsel in the case, and, if present, shall have con
trol in the management of the cause, unless a change is
made by the party himself, to be entered of record.
46. An attorney of record is one who has appeared in the
case, as evidenced by his name subscribed to the pleading,
or to some agreement of the parties filed in the case; and
he shall be considered to have continued as such attor
ney to the end of the suit in the district court, unless there
is something appearing to the contrary in the record.
47. No agreement between attorneys or parties, touching
any suit pending, will be enforced unless it be in writing,
signed, and filed with the papers as part of the record.
48. Counsel of the party for whom a judgment is to be
rendered shall prepare the form of the judgment to be
entered, and submit it to the court.
49. Absence of counsel will be no good cause for con
tinuance or postponement of the cause when called for
trial, except it be allowed in the discretion of the court
upon cause shown, or upon matters within the knowledge
or information of the judge, to be stated on the record.
50. No attorney or other officer of the court shall be
surety in any cause pending in the court, except under
special leave of court.
51. Any attorney who shall bring a fictitious suit as an
experiment to get an opinion of the court, or who shall file
any fictitious pleading in a cause for such a purpose, or
shall make statements in pleading presenting a state of case
which he knows to be groundless and false, for the purpose
of securing a delay of the trial of the cause, shall be held
guilty of a contempt, and the court, of its own motion or
at the instance of any party, will direct an inquiry to ascer
tain the fact. -
52. After the court has pronounced its opinion upon a
question made, no further argument will be heard; but, if
counsel think the court has fallen into error as to law or
fact, they may submit a statement in writing, which the
court will receive and consider.
BILLS OF EXCEPTION.
53. There shall be no bills of exception taken to the
judgments of the court rendered upon those matters which
at common law constitute the record proper in the case, as
the citation, petition, answer, and their supplements and
amendments, and motions for new trial or in arrest of
judgment, and final judgment, except as to those pleadings
superseded by repleading, upon which some question of
error in the ruling of the court, in relation to them or to
their being superseded, is raised, as mentioned in rule 14,
relating to amendments.
55. The charges of the court that are given, and those
asked that are refused, when signed by the judge and filed
by the clerk, being made thereby a part of the record by
statute, should not, in civil causes, be made a part of a bill
of exceptions.
55 a. The rulings of the court upon applications for con
tinuance, and for change of venue, and other incidental
motions, and upon the admission or rejection of evidence,
and upon other proceedings in the case not embraced in the
two preceding rules, when sought to be complained of as
erroneous, must be presented in a bill of exceptions, signed
by the judge and filed by the clerk, or otherwise made
t
according to the statute, and they will thereby become a
part of the record of the cause, and not otherwise.
56. Exceptions to evidence, admitted over objections
made to it on the trial, may be embraced in the statement
of facts, in connection with the evidence objected to.
57. Exceptions to the admission of evidence on the trial,
where no reason is assigned for objecting to it, shall not be
sustained where the evidence is obviously competent and
admissible, as tending to prove any of the facts put in issue
in the pleadings; and in all cases the court, when deemed
necessary, may call upon the party offering the evidence to
explain the object of its admission, and also upon the party
excepting the reason of his objections, which, when done,
in either or both cases, may form a part of the bill of excep
tions.
58. Exceptions to the admission of evidence, where the
ground of objection is assigned, shall be considered in refer
ence to the objection made to it, and the objection shall be
stated in the bill of exceptions taken to its admission or
exclusion.
59. Bills of exception must state enough of the evidence,
or facts proved in the case, to make intelligible the ruling
of the court excepted to, in reference to the issues made by
the pleadings. -
60. When exceptions are made to the admission or exclu
sion of evidence on the trial before the court or before the
jury, the exceptions will be then decided, after such argu
ment as the court may allow, and a memorandum of the
point ruled will then be made by the judge, if the bills of
exception are not then prepared and signed, which ordina
rily should be done, and must be done during the term.
CHARGE OF THE COURT.
60 a. When the pleading of either or both parties con
tains several combinations of facts, either together or in sev
eral counts
or pleas,
each
of which
constitutes
a cause
of
action
or ground
of defense,
and is sufficiently
supported
by
the evidence
to require
a charge,
and upon
which
an issue
has been
formed,
the charge
should
be so framed
as to pre
sent to the jury,
and require
a finding
by them
upon
the
issue
made
upon,
each
of said combinations
of facts
so con
tained
in the pleadings
which
may be necessary
to a decis
ion of the case.
61. When
a full charge
upon
the issues
has been
made,
so far as the evidence
adduced
tending
to establish
them
may
require,
the court
should
not encourage
the asking
of
additional
charges
covering
the same
ground
substantially,
and charges
asked
and not given
should
not be read
in the
hearing
of the jury.
JUDGMENT.
62. The entry
of the judgment
should
carefully
recite
the
finding
of the jury,
or the several
findings
if more
than
one,
upon
which
the judgment
of the court
is based.
63. The
entry
of the judgment
shall
contain
the full
names
of the parties,
as stated
in the pleadings,
for and
against
whom
the judgment
is rendered.
64. Judgments
rendered
upon
questions
raised
upon
cita
tions,
pleadings,
and all other
proceedings
constituting
the
record
proper,
as known
at common
law,
must
be entered
at the date of each
term
when
pronounced.
65. A cause
that has been
submitted
for trial to the judge,
on the law and facts,
shall
be determined
and judgment
rendered
therein
during
the term
at which
it has been
sub
mitted,
and at least
two days
before
the end of the term,
if
it has been
tried
and submitted
one day before
that time,
unless
it is continued
after
such
submission
for trial,
by the
consent
of the parties,
placed
on the record;
and in such
event
a statement
of facts
and
bills of exception
shall
be
prepared
and filed,
upon
a request
in writing
by either
party.
66. Each ground of a motion for new trial or in arrest of
judgment shall briefly refer to that part of the ruling of the
court, charge given to the jury or charge refused, admis
sion or rejection of evidence, or other proceedings which are
designed to be complained of, in such way as that the point
of objection can be clearly identified and understood by the
Court.
67. Grounds of objections couched in general terms —
as that the court erred in its charge, and in sustaining or
overruling exceptions to the pleadings, and in excluding or
admitting evidence, the verdict of the jury is contrary to
the evidence, the verdict of the jury is contrary to law,
and the like — shall not be considered by the court unless
there should be some fundamental error in the case which
renders it improper for the court to render a judgment
at all.
68. When a jury is not called in the case, and which is
determined by the judge, counsel, in making a motion for
new trial, shall specify succinctly the supposed errors of law
or fact, or both, into which the judge has fallen, as far as it
may be practicable to do so.
69. In motions for continuance, for the change of venue,
and other preliminary motions made and filed in the pro
gress of the cause, the rulings of the court thereon shall be
considered as acquiesced in, unless presented in a bill of
exceptions; and the rulings thereon shall be made a ground
of objection in motions for new trial or in arrest of judg
ment, if they are desired to be relied on as grounds of error.
70, Motions for new trial and in arrest of judgment shall
be determined on motion day of each week of the term,
unless postponed to the next motion day, or, for good
cause shown, to a subsequent day, not later than two entire
days before the adjournment of the court, at which time all
such motions previously filed shall be determined.
THE STATEMENT OF FACTS.
71. Where the evidence adduced upon the trial of the
cause is sufficient to establish a fact or facts alleged by
either party, the testimony of witnesses, and the deeds,
wills, records, or other written instruments admitted as
evidence relating thereto, should not be stated or copied in
detail into a statement of facts, but the facts thus estab
lished should be stated as facts proved in the case; pro
vided, an instrument, such as a note or other contract,
mortgage or deed of trust, that constitutes the cause of
action on which the petition, or answer, or cross-bill, or
intervention is founded, may be copied once in the state
ment of facts.
72. When there is any reasonable doubt of the suffi
ciency of the evidence to constitute proof of any one fact
under the preceding rule, there may then be inserted such
of the testimony of the witnesses, and written instruments
or parts thereof, as relate to such fact.
73. Where there is no dispute about, or question made
upon, the validity or correctness in the form of a deed or
its record, a will or its probate, record of a court, or any
written instrument adduced in evidence, it should be de
scribed (and not copied), or its legal effect as evidence
stated, as a fact established.
74. When questions are raised on such instruments as
are mentioned in the preceding rules, only so much or such
parts of them shall be copied into the statement of facts as
may be necessary to present the question, and the balance
of them shall only be described, or presented as prescribed
in the preceding rule.
75. The commissions, notices, and interrogatories in
depositions, adduced in evidence, shall in no case be in
serted or copied into a statement of facts, but the evidence
thus taken and admitted shall appear in the statement of
facts, in the same manner as though the witness had been
on the stand in giving his evidence, and not otherwise, in
form or substance.
CLERKS.
76. The clerks of the district court shall keep a court
docket in a well-bound book, ruled into columns, in which
he shall enter, in the first column, number of case and name
of attorneys; second, names of the parties; third, nature
of the action; fourth, the pleas; fifth, rules of former
terms; and, sixth, the motions and rules of the present
term.
77. The cases shall be placed on the docket as they are
filed.
78. The clerk shall at each term make out two copies of
this docket—one for the use of the court, and one for the
use of the bar.
79. In preparing the court docket it shall be the duty of
the clerk to designate the suits by regular consecutive num
bers, called file numbers, and he shall mark on each paper,
in every case, the file number of the cause. -
80. In every case appealed to the supreme court the
clerk shall, in making up the docket at each succeeding
term, keep the said cause in its proper place on the docket,
for disposition after being decided by the supreme court.
And at the next term after issuing a writ of error the clerk
shall replace the cause on the docket, with its original file
number.
81. In making a complete record, as prescribed by statute
(Pasc. Dig., Art. 1494), the proceedings of all cases shall
be entered in the order of time in which they occur, or the
date of their filing; provided, amended instruments in plead
ings shall take the place of those for which they were sub
stituted, and those instruments thus superseded, or those
that are abandoned as shown by an order or judgment of
the court, shall be left out of the record, unless they appear
in a bill of exceptions in its proper place.
TRANSCRIPT ON APPEAL OR WRIT OF ERROR.
82. In making a transcript the proceedings shall be
entered in the order of time at which they occurred, as in
rule 81, unless counsel on each side shall agree in writing,
to be itself filed and copied in the transcript, directing the
clerk which of the papers may be left out, as being useless
in the decision of the case; provided, subpoenas shall not
be inserted, nor shall the citations and service thereof
indorsed, in cases where the defendant or defendants have
filed answers, unless some question is made upon them
which will require them to be copied.
83. In copying the proceedings inserted in the transcript
there shall be a space left between them, so that each one
can readily be distinguished.
84. On the left-hand margin of the page of each pro
ceeding the clerk shall note its name, and the date of its
occurring or being filed. This, however, shall not relieve
him from copying, in connection with every filed paper, the
filing subscribed or indorsed thereon.
85. The pages shall be numbered at the bottom on the
left hand of each page.
86. The transcript shall be written on good, white paper,
with black ink, in a plain, round hand, and not confused by
running words together, and by flourishes, and with suffi
cient space between the lines to be easily read, and on one
side only of each sheet of paper, with no sheets cut out or
mutilated, and the sheets shall be entire and filled with
writing, so as to leave no blanks larger than the ordinary
spaces left between the different proceedings to distinctly
separate them. All of the sheets upon which it is written
shall be fastened together at the upper end with tape,
ribbon, or something of the kind, and sealed over the tie
with the seal of the court.
87. The caption of the transcript shall be in the following
form, to wit:
THE STATE OF TEXAS,
County of ?
At a term of the district court, begun and holden at
—, within and for the county of , before the Hon.
, and ending on the day of , A. D. 18-, the
following case came on for trial, to wit:
A. B., plaintiff,
W
C. D., defendant.
88. There shall be an index on the first pages preceding
the caption, giving the name and page of each separate pro
ceeding, in its regular order as it appears in the transcript,
and not alphabetically.
89. The transcript shall contain a bill of costs, regularly
made out and copied.
90. It shall conclude with a certificate, under the seal of
the court, that it contains a true copy of all the proceedings
in the cause, and shall be dated and signed officially by the
clerk.
91. The clerk, having made a transcript upon the appli
cation of either party or his counsel, as prescribed in the
case of appeal and in case of writ of error, as directed by
law (under Arts. 1494, 1495), shall deliver it to such party
or his counsel, when so made out, upon demand.
92. The notice of an appeal and giving a bond on an
appeal, and the filing of a petition and bond for writ of
error, and the service of citations, will be regarded as an
application to the clerk to prepare at once a transcript of
the record for the appellant, or plaintiff in error, without
further application.
93. The appellee, or defendant in error, or his counsel,
to be entitled to a transcript of the record, shall specially
make an application to the clerk to make it out for him.
94. The clerk, having prepared a transcript, shall indorse
upon it as follows:
J. K., appellant, or plaintiff in error,
V.
M. M., appellee, or defendant in error.
From county.
And, on the delivery of it to the party, or to his counsel,
who had applied for it, he shall, in all cases, indorse upon
it, before it finally leaves his hands, as follows, to wit:
Applied for by P. S. on the
Delivered to P. S. this
day of , A. D. 18–.
day of —, A. D. 18–.
The same indorsement shall be made on certificates for
affirmance of the judgment sent up to the supreme court.
95. The clerk, as an officer, shall not be relied on by any
party in a civil cause to transmit a transcript to the clerk
of the supreme court, it not being his duty to do so, but
that of the party receiving it from him, except in one case
prescribed by statute, “involving the contest of an election
of a district judge.” Pasc. Dig., Arts. 1595, 1596.
96. When the clerk shall have presented a transcript for
examination to the party, or his counsel, who has applied
for it, and it is found, in any particular whatever, to have
been made out in violation of any of the preceding require
ments, he shall be at liberty to return it, as not being a
complete and properly prepared transcript, in time for the
correction by the clerk. And the reception of it by the
party, or his counsel, without being so returned for such
purpose, will be regarded as an assumption by him of all
responsibility for any and all deficiencies found in the tran
script, resulting from a violation of these rules or that of
the statutes.
ASSIGNMENT OF ERRORS.
97. The appellant, or plaintiff in error, shall file in the
district court, at the time of filing a bond or affidavit for
appeal, or bond for writ of error, an assignment of errors,
signed by the party, or his counsel, prepared in accordance
with the statute, and with the rules of the supreme court
relating thereto. Any other party having a right to file an
assignment of errors in the cause shall do so by filing the
same in the district court, and giving the other parties, or
their counsel, notice ten days before the time for filing brief
by appellant. An executor or administrator must file assign
ments of error within twenty days after notice of appeal
given by him, or at the time of filing his petition for writ of
error.
98. The clerk shall receive the assignments of errors and
indorse his filing upon them, with the date of their being
presented to him, place them amongst the papers of the
cause, and insert a copy of them, with their filing and its
date, in the transcript, if they have been filed before the
transcript has been delivered; and, if filed afterwards, he
shall, upon request, give to any party to the cause a certi
fied copy of them, with his filing and date thereof.
BRIEFS.
99. Appellant, or plaintiff in error, shall file a copy of
his brief in the district court, as directed under the rules of
the supreme court, which shall be received by the clerk,
and he shall indorse upon it his filing, with the date of its
delivery to him, and keep it among the papers of the cause,
subject to the inspection, in his office, of any of the parties,
or their counsel, and shall, upon request, deliver a certified
copy
of it, and of his filing,
with its date;
or, if copies
thereof
shall
be presented
to him,
he shall
certify
thereto
for the
party
requesting
it, but it shall
not be copied
in the tran
script.
100.
The
appellant,
or plaintiff
in error,
shall
file his
brief,
as prescribed
in the rules
of the supreme
court,
ten
days
before
the first
day of the assignment
of the term
of
the supreme
court
to which
the case is returnable.
If he
files
it afterwards,
he may
obtain
a copy
certified
as stated
in the preceding
rule.
JURISDICTION
OF THE DISTRICT
COURT
OVER
APPEAL
OR WRIT
OF ERROR.
101.
When
there
shall
be no bond
or affidavit
filed,
the
appeal
or writ of error
shall
be considered
as abandoned.
102.
When
no transcript
of the record,
or no certificate
for affirmance,
has been
filed
in the supreme
court
at the
term
of the court
to which
the appeal
or writ
of error
in
which
citation
has been
served
is returnable,
the appeal
or
writ
of error
shall
be considered
as abandoned,
of which
the certificate
of the proper
clerk
of the supreme
court,
given
at the end of said term,
that no such
case has been
filed
in
said court
shall
be prima
facie
evidence.
103.
The
appellee,
or defendant
in error,
in any case
wherein
the appeal
has been
perfected,
or the citation
or
citations
in error
have
been
served
more
than
twenty
days
before
the first day of the assignment
in the supreme
court
at the term
to which
it is returnable,
may obtain
from
the
district
clerk
a certificate
of those
facts,
to be presented
to
the clerk
of the supreme
court
as authority
for issuing
the
above
certificate.
Nothing
in this
rule
shall
prevent
the
abandonment
from
being
established
in any
other
legal
mode
at an earlier
or different
date.
And,
in case of such
abandonment,
the jurisdiction
of the district
court
not
having
been
lost,
it will proceed
to execute
the judgment
the same as though there had been no attempt to obtain an
appeal or writ of error in the case.
104. The rules of the district court herein prescribed
shall apply to civil causes in the district court, and likewise
to civil causes in the county courts, wherein there may be
no other and different rule of proceeding specially pre
scribed by law.
105. Rules for the government of the district court here
tofore made and published shall be superseded from and
after the time when these rules shall go into effect.
LICENSE OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELORS AT LAW.
106. In all cases an application in writing must be filed.
The court will require a strict compliance with what is pre
scribed in the statute as to residence, good moral character,
and honorable deportment. Applicants for license, upon
examination, will be expected to have studied Blackstone’s
Commentaries; Kent's Commentaries; Stephen, Gould,
or Chitty on Pleadings; Story's Equity Pleadings; 1 Green
leaf, Starkie, or Phillips on Evidence; Parsons, Story, or
Chitty on Contracts; Story, Parsons, or Daniel on Prom
issory Notes; Story or Gow on Partnership; Story's Equity
Jurisprudence or Adams' Equity, or law books of like
character, and to have some general knowledge of the con
stitution and statutes of this state, and of the rules of the
district and supreme courts.
RULES OF THE DISTRICT COURT IN APPEALS IN ADMINIS
TRATION CASES FROM THE COUNTY COURT.
107. Motions to dismiss appeals shall be placed on the
motion docket, and determined as other motions.
108. Motions for certiorari to perfect the record shall be
accompanied by a sworn statement, showing in what par
ticular the transcript is defective, unless it shall sufficiently
appear by the record itself. The cost of the motion and
additional record, and of the term if it causes a continu
ance of the case, shall be taxed against the appellant,
whose duty it is to have a correct record filed, at the dis
cretion of the court.
109. In appeals from the county court in cases pertaining
to the estates of deceased persons, the transcript shall not
contain anything which does not relate to the order, decis
ion, or judgment appealed from. Where the appeal has
been taken by the same person from more than one order,
decision, or judgment entered of record in the same estate,
at the same term of the county court, all of the proceed
ings in each appeal, being kept distinct, may be embraced
in the same transcript.
RULES GOVERNING IN CRIMINAL CASES IN COUNTY AND
DISTRICT COURTS.
110. The clerks of the district and county courts shall
record the proceedings had in their courts in the order of
time in which they occur.
111. The record should show, and it should appear in
the transcripts of the record for the court of appeals—
First. That the indictment was presented in open court,
a quorum of the grand jury being present.
Second. That the defendant plead to the indictment, or
that a plea was entered for him.
Third. In capital felonies, that the defendant was ar
raigned and plead, or that, upon his refusal to plead, a plea
was entered by the court.
Fourth. That the jury trying the cause were impaneled
and sworn according to law.
Fifth. That a final judgment was entered in the cause.
112. Transcripts of the record for the court of appeals
shall not be incumbered with copies of capiases, bonds,
recognizances, subpoenas, attachments for witnesses, or any
of the proceedings had on a former trial, where a new trial
has been granted, unless there is some question expressly
raised on the trial with reference to such proceedings which
requires revision in the court of appeals, or, in scire facias
cases, on appeal or writ of error.
113. In preparing transcripts the following order shall
be observed, to wit:
First. The index, which must refer to the proceedings
in the order they appear in the record.
Second. The caption, which shall be as follows:
THE STATE of TEXAS,
COUNTY OF $
At a term of the court, begun and holden within
and for the county of—, at—, on the day of
A. D. 18–, and which adjourned on the day of —,
A. D. 18-, the Hon. , judge thereof, presiding, the
following cause came on for trial, to wit:
The State of Texas
No. —. V.
A. B.
Third. The time and manner of the presentation of in
dictment.
Fourth. The indictment or information.
Fifth. The pleas of defendant.
Sixth. The verdict and judgment.
Seventh. The statement of facts.
Eighth. The charge of the court.
Ninth. The charges refused.
Tenth. Bills of exception.
Eleventh. Motion for new trial, and motion in arrest of
judgment.
Twelfth. Such other pleas, motions, and orders as are
made during the trial of the cause.
Thirteenth. Final judgment.
*
Fourteenth. Assignment of errors, if any are filed.
Fifteenth. Certificate of the clerk under the seal of the
court, which shall certify that the transcript contains a true
copy of all the proceedings had in the cause.
114. In preparing the transcript the following directions
must also be observed: It shall be written on good paper,
on one side only, in a neat, legible hand, free from erasures
and interlineations, leaving a margin of sufficient width, in
which margin the clerk shall note the name of each pro
ceeding, and the time of its occurring or being filed, and,
at the left-hand, lower corner, mark the number of each
page. At the end of each paper must be copied the file
marks indorsed thereon, and a space should be left between
the record of each separate paper or proceeding.
115. The transcript must be fastened at the upper end
with tape or ribbon, and sealed over the tie with the seal of
the court, and folded, and indorsed as follows:
From
18–.
A. B., appellant,
V
The State of Texas, appellee.
county district court (or county court), A. D.
116. The statement of facts must contain a full and com
plete statement of all facts in evidence on the trial of the
cause, including copies of all papers, documents, and
exhibits adduced in evidence; also the proof of venue and
identification of defendant.
117. The transcript of the record, where defendant has
been convicted of a misdemeanor, must be delivered to the
party appealing, or his counsel; but, if not applied for
before the twentieth day before the commencement of the
term of the court of appeals to which the appeal is return
able, the clerk shall transmit the same by mail, paying the
postage thereon, to the clerk of the court of appeals.
680 RULES FOR DISTRICT COURT.
118. Transcripts of the record, where defendants have
been convicted of a felony, shall be prepared within twenty
days after the adjournment of the court, and sent by mail,
post-paid, to the clerk of the court of appeals, at the
branch to which the appeal is returnable. But, where the
defendant or his counsel directs the transcript to be sent to
a branch of the court where the term is held before the
term to which the appeal is returnable by law, the clerk
shall so transmit it, and send with such transcript a certified
copy of such order or direction.
119. The clerk shall, immediately after the adjournment
of the court at which appeals in criminal cases are taken,
make out a certificate under his seal of office, exhibiting a
list of all such cases where the defendant has appealed.
This certificate shall show the style of the cause upon the
docket, the offense of which the defendant stands convicted,
the day on which the judgment was rendered, and the day
on which the appeal was taken, which list he shall transmit
to the attorney general at Austin.
120. It shall be the duty of the district and county
attorneys to see that the judgments in criminal cases are
properly entered by the clerks, and, when practicable, they
should be present when the minutes are read.
GENERAL RULES.
121. Any supposed violation of the rules prescribed in
the conduct of a cause, to the prejudice of a party, may be
reserved by bill of exception presented as a ground for new
trial, and assigned as error by the party who may conceive
himself aggrieved by such supposed violation. |
122. The foregoing rules shall go into effect and be of
force in the district and county courts of the state of Texas
from and after the first day of March, A. D. 1878, and
from that date shall be applied to each and all of the pro
ceedings to which they or any of them may be applicable
