AN ACT revising the Code of Civil Procedure of Utah
Territory.
Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative A88mbly
of the T'rrltory of Utah a.sfollows:
lreclimblu'y Provisions.
SEC. 1. This Code takes eflfb(t at twelve o'clock,
00nooonn, the first day of August, eighteen lundred and eighty-four.
SEC. 2. No part of it is retroactive, mless expressly
so de(claredl.
SEC. 3. The rule of' the common law, that statutes
in derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no
application to this Code. The Code establishes the law of
this T ,sritory, respecting the subjects to which it relatc%,
and its provisions and all proeeding under it, are to be
liberally construed, with a view to effect its objects and to
promote justice.
SEC. 4. The provisions of this Code, so far as they tre substantially the same as existing statutes, must be con- strued as continuations thereof, and not as new enactments.
Sec. 5. No action or proceeding commenced before this Code takes effect, and no right acrued, is affected by its provisions, but the proceedings therein must conform to
the requirements of this Code as fir as applicable.
Sec. 6. When a limitation or period of time pre- scribed in any existing statute fir acquiring a right or barring a remedy, or or any other purpOse, has begun to
run befbre this Code goes into efflct, and the same or any
limitation is preseribel in this code, the time which has
already run shall be deemed part of the time prescribed as
such limitation by this Code.
SEc. 7. Holidays, within the meaning of this Code, are every Sunday; the first d-y of January; the twentysecond
day of' February; the thirtieth day of May, connionly
called Decoration Day; the fourth day of' July; the
twenty-fburth day of' July, coinionly called Pioneers' Day;
the twenty-fifth day of Deceinber; and all days which may
be sqt apart by the President of the United Statcs, or the
Governor of' Utah Territory, by proclaiation, as days of'
fhst o' thanksgiv' ing.
SEc. 8. The time in which any act provided by law is to be done is computed by excluding the first day, and including the last day, unless the last day is a holiday,
a-ad then it is alno tox(liidl.
SEC. 9. W nhceelsesviteyr oarn y aecrt yo,f ias saepcpuolainr tenda ture, other by law or 01ec~ is contract to be perfrme(i upon a particular (lay, which day
fadls upon a holiday, such act may be performled. upon the
next business day with the same eftbct as if :t had been
performed upon the day appointed; Provided, That nothing
in this or tl~e preceding section shall be so constriiA as to
in any nmaner change, alter or modify the time of' the matim'..
y of negotiable instrmnents as provided in an act
entitled" An Act in Relation to Negotiable Instrunents,"
apiprovedl Mua'eh 9, 1882.
SEc. 10. When the seal of a court, or pilic officer, is reqiiiired by law to Ie affixed to any paper, the word seal
includes an impression of' such seal ii)01n the paper alone, as
well as upon wax or a wafir aflixed thereto. in all other
cases the word seal may inmlide a scroll piintl o1' written.
SEC. 11. Words giving a joint authority to three or
more public officers or other persons, are construed as giving
such authority to a majority of them, unless it is otherwise
expressed in the act giving the authority.
SEC. 2. Words and phrages are construed according
to the context and the approved usage of the language; but
technical words and phrases, and such others as have acquired
a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law, or are
defined in the succeeding section, are to be construed according
to such peculiar mid appropriate meaning or
definitlon.
SEC. 13. Words used in this Code in the present
tense include the future as well as the present; words
used in the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter; the singular number includes the plural, and the
plural the singular; the word person includes a corporation
as well as a natural person; writing includes printing;
oath includes affirmation or dechration; and every mode
of oral statement under oath or affirmation is embraced by
the term "testify," and every written one in the term
"depose"; signature or subscription includes mark, when
the person cannot write, his name being written near it and
witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a witness.
The following words also have in this Code the
signification attached to them in this section, unless oilier-
Wise apparent from the context:
1. The word "property" includes both real and perfined.
sonal property.
2. The words "real property" are co-extensive with
lands, tenements and hereditaments, water rights, possessory
rights and claims.
3. The words "personal property" include money,
goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt,
unles4s .othTehrwe iswe oerxdp re"sImseodntlh." means a calendar month,
5. The word "will" includes codicils.
6. The word "writ" signifies an order or precept in
writing, isued in the name of' the people, or of a court or
.judicial officer, and the word "process 'a wivit or summons
issued in the course of judicial proceedings.
7. The word "State" when applied to the different
parts of the United States, includes the District of Columbia
and the Territories; and the words "United States"
may include the District and Territories.
SEC. 14. No statute, law or rule, is continued in
foree because it is consistent with the provisions of this
Code on the same subject; but in all cases provided for by this Code, all statutes, laws and rules heretofore in force in this Territory, whether consistent or not with the provisions
of this Code, unless expressly continued in fbrce by
it, are repealed and abrogated. This repeal or abrogation
does not revive any former law heretofore repeale, nor
does it affect any right already existing or accrued, or
tiny action or proceeding already taken, except as in this
Code provided; nor does it afrect any private statute not
expressly repealed.
SEC. 15. This act, whenever cited, enumerated, re- fbrred to or amended, may be designated simply as " The Code of Civil Procedure," adding, when necessary, the number of the section.
SEc. 16. When the violation of a right admits of both a civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not merged in the other.
(bu/,,i of Ju.stice in Genral
this TSMercr. ito1r7y, : The Ibllowihig are the cotlrts o' juttit-V Of
1 . 'lhe supreme (coirt,
2, The district co(il'ts,
'[lc probate Courts.
4. h'lejusti s' courts,
SEC. 18. hie courts ellumerited in the first threv subdivisious of the preceding section are courts of record.

SEC. 19. The ll'isdiction of' this Court is of two kinds:
1. ()rigiul; and,
2. A I)Ihtlite.
SEC. 20. Its oliginal mjurisdiction extends to the
,l (. w it of anl dthe, (certiorllri, prlorhiti(iin, ha ls
corpIu.s, a id m] 1 wrIts Ilnc' to thely colltle exercise Of'
its Oljiellate jurisdiction.
SEc. 21. Its appellate jiIrisdictiou extends to a review of all cases removed to it un'ler such regulations as are or may be prescribed by law, from the decisions of the district
courts.
SEc. 22. The court may reverse, affirm, or modify any order or judgment appealed from, and may direct the proper judgment or order to be entered, or direct a new trial or further proeeedings to be had. Its judgment must
be remitted to the court from which the appeal was taken.
The decisions of the court shall be given ill writing; and
ill giving a decision, if a new trial be granted, the court
shall p s upon and determine aIl lime (lietions of law in- volved in the case, presented upon such appeal, and neces- sary to the final determination of the case.
SEC. 23. The presence of two justicus of the supreme c-,urt is necessary for the transaction of business, but one of the Justice may adjourn the comt from day to day or
to a particular day, or until the next term.
SEc. 21. The concurrence of two justices of the
supreme court is necssary to pronounce a judgment; if
two do not concur, the c se mast be re-heard.
SEC. 25. There must be held in each year two terms of the sipreme court for the hearing of causes, to be held at the capital of' the Territory, at such times as the Governor
thereof may by proclamation fix,

SEc. 26. The jurisdiction of the district courts extends:
1. To all civil actions for relief formerly given ill
courts of equity.
2. To alleivil actions in whiehl the subject of litigation
is not capable of pecuniary estimation.
3. To all civil actions il which the subject of litigation
is capable of pectniary eftimation or which involve
the title or possession of real estate, or the legality of any
tax, impost, assessment, toll, or municipal fine.
4. To actions of' forcible entry and detainer to proceedings
in insolvency; to actions to prevent or abate a
nuisance; to actions of divorce, and for annulment of marriae,
and to all such special cas(s and proceedings is are
not otherwise provided for.
5. To the trial of all indictments; said courts shall
have the power of naturlization, aod to issue papers therefbr.
Said courts and their judges, or any of them, shall
have power to issue writs of mandamus, certiorari, prohibition,
quo warranto, in their respec, ive districts, and of
habeas corpus on petition by or on behalf of any person in
actual custody. Injmictioins and writs of prohibition may
be issued anl served on legal holidays and non-judicial
(lays.
6. Its appellate jurisdiction extends to all cases arising
in probate or justices' courts; and to all other lnatters
and cases wherein an appeal to it is or may be allowed by
law.
SEc. 27. Each term must be held until the business
is disposed of, or until a day fixed for the commencement of
some other tern in the district.
SEC. 28. The court may adjourn from time to time
during the term, and may, when the public convenience requires,
adjourn the term over the time fixed by law for the
commencement of another term in the same district.
SEC. 29. Judgments and orders of' this court may be
entered either in terni or vacation.
SEC. 35. There must, be a probate court held in each
of the counties.
SEC. 36. The probate court has jurisdiction:
1. In the settlement of the estates of decedents, and
in matters of guardianship and other like matters.
2. In suits of divorce for shttutory causes concurrently
with the district courts, but any defendant in a suit
for divorce commenced in this court shall be entitled, after
appearance and before plea or answer, to have said suit removed
to the district court having jurisdiction, when said
suit shall procetd in like manner as if originally commenced
in said district court.
3. To make such orders as may be necessary to the
exercise of' the powers conferred upon it.
4. To enter land iltlru st for the use and benefit of
the occupants of towns in the various counties, accordinr
to the provisions of any law of Congress, and under sUCh
rules and regulations as are or may be prescribed by the
Legislative Assembly.
SEc. 37. The probate proceedinigs, records, orders,
judgments, and decrees of this court are construed iih same manner, and with like intendments, as the proceed- ings in courts of general Jurisdiction, and to them there is
accorded like force, eflect, and legal pre uniptions as to the
records, orders, *judgments, and decrees of' district courts.
SEC. 38. The probate courts shall always be opened
for transaction of' business, but regular sessions thereof
shall be held as follows:. In the County of Salt Lake,
on the second and fourth Mondays of' each mouth ; illth e
Counties of' Gaele, Weber, Utah and Sanpete, on1th e
secondl Monday in each month and in the remaining counties
on the second Monday of March, June, September and
December of each year; each session shall continue until all
the business then ready fbr a hea'ing is disposed of.
Sno. 39. The terms of the probate court must be
held at the county seat.

SEC. 44. Every justice of the peace must ]told a justice's court in the precinct or city for which lie is elected or appointed.
SEC. 45. The civil jurisdiction of these courts within respective l'eeincts or cities extends: 1. To an action arising on contract for the recovery
of nmoney only, if the sum claimed is less than three Ixundred
dollars.
2. To an action for damages fox injury to the person,
or for taking or detaining personal property, or for injuring
personal property, or for ai injury to real property,
where no issue is raised by the answer involving the plaintiff's title to or possession of the sanxe, if tile damages
claimed be less than three hundred dollars.
3. To an action for a line, penalty or forfeiture, less
than three hundred dollars, given by statute or the ordi-
21
nances of an incorporated city where no issue is Mised by
the answer involving the legality of any tax, impost, assessment,
toll or municipal fine.
4. To ain action upon a bond or undertaking conditioned
for the payment of money, less than three hundred
dollars, though the penalty exceed that sum, the
.judgment to be given fbr the sum actually due. When
the payments are to be miade by installments, an action may
l) brought for each installment as it becomes due.
5. To an action to recover the possession of personal
property, when the value of such property is less than
three hundred dollars.
6. To take and enter judgment on the confession of
a defendant, when the amount confeased is less tham three
hundred dollars.
SEC. 46. The justices' courts shall have concurrent
jurisdiction with the district courts within their respective
precincts and cities:
1. In actions of' fbrcible entry and detainer, where
the whole amount of rent and damages claimed is less tvin
three hundred dollars.
2. In actions to enforce and forci-lose liens on personal
property, where the amount of the liens and the
value of the pro)erty are each les than three hundred
dollars.
SEc. 47. Mesne and final process of justices' courts
may be issued to any part of the county in which they are
held.
SEC. 48. These courts have jurisdiction of the fbldicth,.
lowing public olfbises, committed within the respective
counties in whiel such courts are established:
1. Petit larceny ;
2. Assault and) battery, not charged to have keen
committed upon a public o'filcr in the discharge of his
duties;
.3. Breaels of the peace, committing a willful in'jury
to property, and all misdemeanors punishable by a fine less
thril three hundred dollars, or imprisonment in the county
*jlil or (itv prison not exceeding six months, or by both
suchti net l'ni inmiwisonnient.

SEC. 50. The sittings of every court of' justice arc public, except as provided in the next section.
SEc. 51. In all action for divorce, criminal con'ver- sation, seduction, abortion, bastardy, rape, and assault intent to commit rape, the court may, in its discretion
exclude all persons who are not directly interested therein,
excepting jurors, witnesses and officers of the court; Provided,
That in any cause the court may, in its discretion,
during the examination of a witness, exclude any and all
other wvitnesses hi the cause.
SEC. 52. Every court has power: 1. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate 2. To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or before a person or persons empowered to conduct a judicial
investigation under its authority;
3. To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings
before it or its officers;
4. To conl)el obedience to its judgments, orders and
1)rocess, and to the orders of a judge out of court, in an
action or proceeding pending therein;
5. To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct
of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any
manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in
every matter pertaining thereto;
6. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in
an action or proceeding pending therein, in the cases and
manner provided in this Code;
7. To administer oaths in an action or proceeding
pending therein, and in all other euses where it may be
necessary in the excercise of its powers and duties;
8. To amend and control its process and orders so as
to imake then conformable to law and justice;
9. To devise and make new process and fbrms of'
proceedings consistent with law necassary to carry into
effect the powers and jurisdiction )ssessed by it.
SEC. 53. Every court, of record may inmke rules, not inconsistent with the laws of this Territory, for its
own government and the government of its officers, but
such rules must neither impose any tax or charge upon any
lega! proceeding, nor give any allowance to any officer for
services.
SEc. 54. The rules adopted by the supreme court
take effect twenty days, and those adopted by other courts
ten days, after their publication.
SEC. 55. Courts of justice may be held and judicial
may business transacted on any day, except as provide in the next section.
SEC. 56. No court can be opened, nor can any
judicial business be transacted, on Sunday, on the first day I
of Janary, on the twenty-second day of February, on the
thirtieth day of May, on the fourth day of July, on the
twenty-fourth day of July, on Christmas or Thanksgiving
"ay, on any day on which the general election is held, or
on any legal holiday, except for the following purposes:
1. To give upon their rcqluest, instructions to a jury
when deliberating on their verdict;
2. To receive a verdict or discharge a jury;
3. For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate in
a criminal action, or in a proceeding of a criminal nature;
Provided, That in civil causes orders of arrest may be made
and executed; writs of attachment, executions, injunctions
and writs of prohibition, may be issued and served; procecdings
to recover possession of personal property may be
had; and suits for the purpose of obtaining any such writs
and proceedings may be instituted on any day.
SEC. 57. If any of the days mentioned in the last section happen to be the day appointed for the holding of
a court, or to which it is adjourned, it is deemed appointed
for, or adjourned to the next day.
SEC. 58. If no judge attend on the day appointed
for the holding or sitting of a court, or on the day
to which it may have been adjourned, before noon, the
clerk shall make an entry thereof in his record, and the
marshal, sheriff, or clerk must adjourn the court until the
next day at ten o'clock a. i.; and if no judge attend on
that day, before noon, the marshal, sherii, or clerk must
adjourn the court until the following day, at the same
hour, and so on fiom day to day, for one week, unless the
judge, by written order, directs it to be adjourned to
sonic day certain, fixed in said order, in which case it shall
be so adjourned.
SEC. 59. If no judge attend for one week, and no
written order is made, as provided in the last section, the
marshal, sheriff or clerk shall adjourn the session until the
time appointed for the holding of' the next regular session.
SEC. 60. No recognizance, or other instrument or proceeding, shall be rendered invalid by reason of there being a failure of the term; but all proceedings pending in court shall be continued to the next regular term, unless an adjournment be made as authorized in Section 58.
SEC. 61. In case of such continuance or adjourn- ment, persons rccognized or bound to appear at the regular term which has failed as aforesaid, shall be held bound in like manner to appear at the time so fixed, and their sure- ties, if any, shall be liable, in case of their non-appearance,
in the same manner as though the term had been held at
the regular time and they had failed to make their appearance
thereat.
SEC. 62. The judge or judges authorized to hold or preside at a court appointed to be held in a county, city s. "* "] ] " or town, may, by an order filed with the clerk, and pub- lished as lie or they may prescribe, direct that the court
may be held or continued at any other place in the city,
town or county, than that appointed, when war, insurrection,
pestilence or other public calamity or the danger
thereof, or the destruction or danger of the building appointed
for holding court, may render it necessary, and
may, in the same manner, revoke the order, and in his or
their discretion, appoint another place in the same city,
town or county, for holding court.
SEc. 63. When the court is held at a place appointed provided in the last preceding section, every person held to apear at the court must appear at the place bo appointed. 

SEc. 64. If suitable rooms for holding the district courts, and the chambers of the judges of such courts b1e. not provided in the place or places appointed for holding said courts, together with attendants, furniture, fuel, lights,
and stationery sufficient for the transaction of the Territorial
business, the court may direct the sheriff of the
county where the court is to be held to provide such rooms,.
attendants, furniture, fuel, lights and stationery, and 'the
expenses thereof are a charge against the Territory.
SEC. 65. Each of the following courts has a seal: 1. The supreme court; 2. The district courts;
3. The probate courts.
thereSoEfe.. 66. The clerk of the court must keep the seal
SE. 67. The seal of the court need not be affixed to
to any proceeding therein, or document, except:
1. To a writ;
2. To a certificate of thc probate of a will, or of
appointment of an executor, administrator, or guardian.
3. To the authentication of a copy of a record or
other proceeding of a court, or of all officer thereof, or of
a copy of a document on file in the office of the clerk.
TITLE II.
JUDICIAL OFFICERS,
CuI-rAIME I.
Judkial Offlecr8 in Geneat.
SEC. 70. Eich probate judge shall reside at the
county seat of his county, during the term of his office,
and every justice of the peace shall reside in the city or
precinct in which his court is held.
SEC. 71. Whenever the condition of the business in
the district court of' any dstrict is such that the judge of
intanotirtrictC~ ' o1 0 t is h tha ties thdeo
tile district is unable to do tle same, he may request tie
judge of either of the other districts to assist him, and
'u)on1 such request made, the judge so requested may hold
the whole or part of any term or any branch thcreof; and
whn by reason of sickness, or absence from the Territory,
or fiom niy other cause, a court cannot be held in
an) district by the judge thereof, a certificate of that fact
must be transmitted by the clerk to the Governor, who
may thereupon direct some other distriet judge to hold
such court, and tie acts of such judge so holding such
court or any branch thereof as above mentioned, shall be
of equal force as if he were duly a.signed to hold the
courts in such district.

SEc. 73. District judges, at chambers, may grant all orders and writs which are usually granted in tile first in- staec upon ex parle appJlications and fmy at chambers hear and dispose of such writs and of motions for new
trials, and try and determine writs of habeas corpus, certiorari,
mandate and prohibition, and may hear applications
to disclarge all such orders and writs. In case of vacancy
in the office of any district judge, or his absence from the
Territory, motions nay be maude beibre, and orders granted
by, any other district judge.
SEC. 74. If The parties to an action or special p1r 1o" ceedo- f ig, pemding ii a court of record, may, with the consent of the judge who is to try or hear it, without a jury, stipu- late in writing, that it shall le tried or heard and determined,
elsewhere than at the place appointed for holding
said court.
The stipulation must specify the place of trial or hearing, and must be filed in the office of the clerk. CIIAP'rEn III.
Diqualifications of Judges.
SEC. 76. No justice, judge, or justice of the peace sit or act as such in any action or proceeding: 1. To which he is a party, or in which he is interested
;
2. When lie is related to either party by consanguinity
or affinity within the third degree, computed according
to the rules of law;
3. When he has been attorney or counsel for either
party in the action or proceeding.
But the provisions of this section shall not apply to
the arrangement of the calendar or the regulation of the
6rder of business, nor to the power of transferring the
action or proceeding to some other court.
SEC. 77. A judge cannot act as attorney or counsel
ill a court in whiel he is judge, or in an action or proceeding
removed therefrom to anodier court for trial or review
in an action or proceeding from which an appeal may lie
to his own court.
SEC. 78. A justice of the supreme court, or judge of
the district court, cannot act as attorney or counsel in any
court except in an action or proceeding to which lie is a
part, on the record.
SEC. 79. No judge or other judicial officer shall have
a partner acting as attorney or counsel in any court of this
Territory.

SEC. 82. A judge may exercise, out of court, all tie
powers expressly conferred upon a judge as contradistin- guished from the courv.
SEC. 83. Every judicial officer has power:
1. To preserve and enforce order in his immediate
presence, and in proceedings before him, when lie is cigaged
in the performance of official duty;
2. To compel obedience to his lawful orders as provided
in this Code;
3. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in
a proceeding before hin, in the cases and manner provided
in this Code;
4. To administer oaths to persons in a proceeding
pending before him, and in all other cases where it may be
necessary in the exercise of his powers and duties.
SEC. 84. For the effectual exercise of the powers
confdrred by the last preceding section, a judicial officer
may punish for contempt in the cases provided in this
Code.
SEC. 85. The justices of the supreme court, and the
judges of the district courts, have power in any part of the
Territory, and probate judges and justices.of the peace
within tieir respective counties, to take and certify:
1. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance
of real property, or of any other written instrument;
2. The acknowledgment of a satisfaction of a judgment
of ang court;
3. An affidavit or deposition to be used in this Territory.

SEc. 88. If an application for an order, made to a
judge of the court in which the action or proceeding is peding, is refused in whole or in part, or is granted con- ditionally, no subsequent application for the same order can
be made to any other judge, except of a higher court; but
nothing in this section applies to motions refused for any
informality in the papers or proceeding necessary to obtain
the order, or to motions refused, h1bwetr ty to renew the
same.
SEc. 89. A violation of the last preceding section may be punished as a contempt, and an order made con- trry therctd may be revoked by the judge who made it, or
vacted by a judge of the court in wfich the action or proeedling
is pending.
SEC. 90. No proceeding in any court of justice, in an action or special proceeding pending therein, is aflbected by a vacancy in the office of all or any of the judges, or by the failure of a term thereof.
SEC. 91. Every written proceeding in a court of justice in this Territory shall be in the English ]an tuage, and judicial proceedings shall be conducted, preserve, and published in no other.
SEC. 92. Such abbreviations as are in common use may be used, and numbers may be expressed by figures or numerals in the customary manner.
SEC. 93. When jurisdiction is, by this Code or by any other statute, conferred on a court or judicial officer Ijuusdedic all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also given; and in the exercise of the jurisdiction, if the course of
proceeding be not spedfically pointed out by this Code or
tile statute, any suitable process or mode of proceeding
"lay be adopted which may appear most confbrmable to
the spirit of this Code, or the statute.
TITLE III.
l'ERSONS SPECIALLY INVFSTED WITh I'OWEi18 OF A JUDICIAL
NATURE.
CIAPTER I.
Qf Jurors.
SEC. 98. A. jury is a body of men tempo-atily selected
from the citizeis of a particular district and invested
with 'power to present or indict a person for a public
offense, or to try a question of flict.
SEC. 99. Juries are of three kindsof
1. 'Grand juries;
2. Trial juries;
3. Juries of inquest.
SEC. 100. A grand jury is a body of men, fifteen in
number, retrned in pursuance of law from citizens of the
district before a court of competent jurisdiction, and sworn
to inquire of publie. )ffensei committed or triable within
the district.
SEC. 101. A trial jury is a body of mien returned
from the citizens of a particular district beibre a court or
officer of competent jurisdiction, and sworn to try and determine
by unanimous verdict a question of fact.
SEC. 102. A trial jury in a district court consists of
twelve, and in the justices' courts of six men, uless the
parties to the action or proceeding, in other than criminal
(ises, agree upon a less number.
SEC. 103. A jury of inquest is a body of men summoned
from the citizens of a particular district, befbre the
marshal, sheriff or coroner, or other ministerial officer, to
inquire of particular facts.
SEc. 104. A person is competent to act as a juror if he be: lie be:Jurors. 1. A male citizen of the United States over the age
of twenty-one yeurs; and,
2. Who can read and write in the English language;
anld,
3. Who resides in, and has resided in the judicial
district in which he is called upon to serve, six months next
precming the time lie is selected by the probate judge and
clerk of the district court, to serve as a juror as provided
by law; Provided, That the residence required to render a
penson competent to serve as a juror in a justice's court, or Oil a1 inquest, is in the county for a period of six months
next preceding the time lie is actually called to serve; and,
4. Who is a taxpayer in the Territory; and,
5. Who is of a rputed sound mind and discretion,
and who is not so disabled in body ms to be unable to
serve.
SEC. 105. A person is not competent to act as a juror: 1. Who does not possess the qualifications prescribed by the last preceding section;
2. Who has been convicted of malfeasance in office
or any felony or other high crime;
3. Who is ali officer or soldier of the United States,
or a pe'son subject to their military control.
SEc. 106. A person is exempt from liability to net as a juror if lie be:
1. A judicial or civil officer of the United States, or
of the Territory of Utah ;
2. A person holding a county office;
3. An attorney and counselor at law;
4. A person editing a newspaper or periodical;
5. A teacher in a college, academy or school;
6. A practicing physician or surgeon;
7. An officer, keeper or attendant of an alnsliouse,
hospital, msyluni, or other charitable institution;
8. Engaged in the performance of duty as officer or
attendant of a county jail or the Territorial prison;
9. An express agent, mail carrier, telegraph operator,
miller or keeper of' a public ferry or toll gate;
10. A (1ispeisl5sg druggist of a prescription drug
store;
11. A superintendent, engineer, conductor, fireman or
station agent of a railroad;
12. A person drawn s a Juror in any court of record
in this Territory, upon a regular panel, Who Is served as
such within a year; but this exemption shall not extend
to a pe,-son who is summoned as a juror for the trial of a
particuilar case.
SEC. 107. A juror cannot be excused by the court
for slight or trivial cause, or for hardship or inconvenience
to his business, but only when material injury or destruetion
to his property, or that of the public entrusted to him
is threatened, or when his own health, or the sickness or
death of a member of his family, requires his absence.
traniu,,, 

SEC. 108. If a person exempt from liability to act
as a juror, as provided in Section 106, be summoned as a
juror, le may make and transmit his affida-Vit to the clerk
of the court for which he is summoned, stating his offlice,
occupation, or employment; and such affidavit shall be delivered
by the clerk to the judge of the court When the
name of such person is called, and if sufficient in substance,
shall be received as an excuse for non-attendance in person.
The affidavit shall then be filed by the clerk.
SEC. 109. In the month of January in each year,
the clerk of the district court in each judicial district, and
the judge of probate of the county in which the district
court is next to be held, shall prepare a jury list from
which grand and petit jurors shall be drawn, to serve in
the district courts of such district, until a new list shall be
maide as herein provided. Said clerk and probate judge
shall alternately select time name of a male citizen of the
United States, possessing the qualifications mentioned in Section 104, and as selected the name and residence of each
shall be entered upon the list, until the same slall contain
two hundred names, When the same shall be duly certified
by such clerk and probate judge; and the same shall be
filed in the office of the clerk of such district court, and a
duplicate copy shall be made and certified by such officers,
and filed in the office of said probate judge.
SEC. 110. Whenever a grand or petit jury is to be
drawn to serve at any term of' the district court, the judge
of such district shall give public notice of the number,
time and place of the drawing of such jury, Which shall be
at least twelve days before the commencement of such
term, and on the day and at the place thus fixed, the judge
of such district shall hold an open session of his court, and
shall preside at the drawing of such jury.
SEC. 111. Tile clerk of such court shall write the
name of each person on the jury lists returned and filed in Jury his office upon a separate slip of paper, as nearly as ])racticable
of the samne size and form, and all such slips shall,
by the clerk in open court, be phlced in a covered box,
and thoroughly mixed and mingled; and thereupon the
United States aarslal, or his depunty shall proceed to flairly
draw by lot from said box such number of names as may
have previously beeu directed by said .judge.
SEC. 112. If both a grand and petit .jury are to be drawn to serve at the same term, the grand jury shall be drawn first. Eigliteen names shall be drawn from which to form a grand jury.
SEC. 113. 'When the drawing shall have been con- the clerk of the district court shall issue a venire to the marshal, or his deputy, returnable itt such time in
the term as the judge may direct, and directing hin to
summon the persons so drawn, an( the sane shall be duly
served on each of the persons so drawn tit least seven days
before the commencement of th term at which they are to
serve.

SEC. 114. The jurors so drawn and summoned slhall constitute the regular grand and petit juries for tile term for all cases. And the names thus drwn from tie
box by the clerk shall not be retnrned to or again placed
in said box until a new jury list shall be made.
SEC. 115. If, duling iny term of the district court, additional grand or petit jurors slall be necessary, the same slall be drawn from said box by the United States
marshal in oci court; but if the attendance of those
drawn cannot be obtained in a reasonable time, they may
be laid aside, and other nanes may be dravn in their
place, in the same manner.
SEC. 116. The clerk of the district court must fir- nish any person applying therefor, and paying the fees allowved by law for the same, a copy of the list of jurors
drw to attend iny court.
SEC. 117. As soon as lie recelves the venire, the United States narshal must summon the persons nanied therein to attend as such jurors, by giving personal notice
to each, or by leaving a written notice at his place of residence,
with some person of' proper age, and must return
the venire to tile court at the time when it is made returnable,
specifying the names of those who were suinmnone(
and the manner in which c li person was notified. The
jurors drawn under Section 115 may be required to appear
forthwith or at a time to be naned in the venire,
as the court may dirett, and the officers sunnoning
such jurors shall return the venire ts hereinbefore provided.
SEC. 118. Vhen jtlrorn ire required in any justice's
court the nmuber required by law niust, upon the qlrder of
the ,justice thereof, ssbuen ioned by the sl erif, city larshal
or constable of the jurisdietion.
SEC. 119. Such jurors mlust be stollnioned froln the
persons resident of the'city or preciuct, competent to serve
as jurors, by notifying them orally that they are so sumloned,
and of' the tie and place at which their attendance
is required.
SEc. 120. The officer summonhg such juror must,
at the time fixed for their appearlice, return it to the
court, with a list of the persons suninioned endorsed
thereon.
SEc. 121. Juries of inquest iust be stunem:ed by
tshheer ifoff,f iocre rc obnesftoarbel ew, fhroomn tthhee pperr(stoendsl nregssid eanrte ohfa tdh,e ocro uanltly,
competent to serve ts jurors, by notifying them orally that
they are o soummloned, and of the time and place at which
their attendance is required.
Sr;c. 122. Any juror summoned who willfilly, and
ihout rasonalle excuse, jfils to attend, may be attached
and comp~elled to attend, and the court may also impose a
fine, not exceeding one hundred dohlars, upon which execuition
may issue. If the juror was not personally served,
the fine must not be impsed until, upon n order to kuow
Cause, an opportunity has been offered tihe juror to be lluizd.
SEC. 123. Pi feen persons shall constitute a grand
jury, twelve of whom shall constitute a quorun, andi wNen
of the jurors sunummoned no more nor less than fifteen
attend, tley ihall constitute the grand jury. If more than
fifreen attend the clerk nust call over the list suninoned,
and the fifteen first answering shall constitute the grand
jury. If less than fifteen attend, the panel may be filled
to fifteen as provided in Section 1,15.
SEC. 124. Thereafter such proceedings shall be had
wnt impaneling the grand jury as are or muay be prescribed
by law regulating the procedure in crininal cases.
SEc. 125. At the opening of court on the day trial
jtuhreo nrsa mheasv eo f'b teheons es usmuunmmnmonoende dt,o aanp pethare, ctohuer t clmeraky tshheanll call hear
the excuses of jurors sumniioned; the clerk shall then dteposit
the slips or ballots containing the names of the jurors
l)resent and not excused in a box to be kept for that purpose.
SEC. 126. When thereafter a civil fiction is called )y Jury court for trial, and7 a jury is not waived, such proceed- sp ings shall be had ill impancling the trial jury as are pre-
.jcribed in this Code. If the action be a criminal one, the
jury shall' be impaneled as prescribxl by law regulating
the procedure in criminal atses.
SEC. 127. At the time appointed for a jury trial il justices' courts, the list of .jurors summoned nust be adled. If a sufficient number of 'jurors are in attendance the jus- tice may proceed to imlaiel the jury.
SEC. 128. If the action is a criminal one, tile .ill'' must be inlpaneled as prescribed by law regulating the pro- cedure in criminal cases; if a civil one, as provided in this Code.
SEC. 129. The manner of' impaneling juries of in- quest is prescribel in the provisions of the diflerent statutes relating to such inquests.
TITLE IV.
MINISTERIAL OFFICERS OF (2OUI'iS OF JUSTICE.
CII~rnn I.
Bailffs of the ,Sprme and District Cotirts.
SEC. 132. The snpr'mne court and the district cou'ts 11 Itty appoint as many bailiffs wS the exigencies of the busi- ,ess in said courts miy require.
SEc. 133. The bailittM shall hold their olffces at tile pleasure of tile courts appointing them, and shall perform
such duties as may be reqnircd of tlen by the court or any
justice thereof.

SEC. 135. The judge of each district court in this
Territoil may ap)oint it competent phonographic rel)orter
to be known as the official reporter of such court, and, to
hold oflice during the pleasure of th( judge making the
appointmuent. Sucli reporter sha(l, upoi the order of the
court in a civil action or lroceeding, and on tile order of
the court, made and entered upon its own m,,tion, or on
motion of the prosecuting officer or the attornuy fi)r the
defbndant, in it criminal action or proceeding, take down
in short-hand, all the testimony, the objectionis made, the
rulings of' the court, tIhe exceptions taken, awd oral instructions
given, and ifd'i rected iby the court, upon the request
of either p)arty, slall, within such reasonable time after the
trial of such case, iasth e court, may designate, write out
tile ,ttle in plain, legible long-hand and verify and file it
with the clerk of the court ini which the rose wa tried.
SEC. 136. No pe tosnha ll be appointed olficial reappointed.
l)orter, except im1on satisfactory evidence of good moral
character, and without being first examined as to his competency
by at least three members of' the bar practicing in
said court, such members to be designated by the judge of
said court. The committee of members of the' bar so
designated shall, upon the request of the judge of' the said
court, examline any peIon as to his q1ualifications whom
said judge ifmay wish to appoint as official reporter; and no
pcrson shall be appointed to such position upon whose
qualifications such committee shall not have reported
favorably; if he shall pass a satisfactory examination, the
committee shall furnish him with a written certificate of
that tict, signed by at least a mnajority of the members of
the committee, which certificate shall be filed among the
records of the court.
SEc. 137. The official reporter shall attend to the
duties of his office in person, except when excused. for
good and sufficient reason by order of the court, wl ich
order shall be entered upon, the minutes of the court.
E'mploymelt in his professional capacity elsewhere shall
not be deemed a good and sufficient reason for such excuse.
When the official reporter has been excused in the manner
provided in this section, the court may appoint an official
reporter pro tempore, who shall perforin the same duties
and receive the same compensation during the termn of his
emlloynment as the official rel)orter. The official reporter anl the official relporter pro tempore shall take and sub- or scribe an oath of' office before entering upot. their employment.
SEC. 138. The report of the official reporter, orl official reporter • pro.a llt emlore, duly appointed and sworn, fiaecoeire when written out in long-hand writing, and certifi.ed as stae,being a cor'ect transcript of' the testimony and proceedings imvio.
of tile ase, shall lie primafaeie a correct statement of such
testimony amd proceedings.
SEc. 139. The official reporter shall receive, as comipensation
jor his services in civil actions and proceedings, for taking notes, a sum, to ibe fixed by the cou't, 01', ajudge
thereol', not exceeding ten dollars per day, and fbir transcription,
a sim, to be in like mauer fixed, not exceeding
fifteen cents per lnnlred w (ordPs;r ovided, That when said
reporter per forms services in taking notes in more than one cause on the sane day, the court or judge thereof shall apportion
the per diem allowed between the several actions
or pl'ocecedigs in which such notes are taken. The shorthand
notes so taken shall, immediately after the cause is
submitted, be filed with the clerk ; but for' the purpose of
writing out said notes, the reporter may withdraw the same
fbr a reasonable time.
The reporter's fbes for taking notes in civil cases shall
)e paid by the party in whose favor 'judgment is rendered, and shall be taxed up by the clerk of' the court as costs
against the part) against whom judgment is rendered. In
case of the failu'e of' a jury to agree, tle plaintiff must
pay the reporter's fees fbr time employed and transcription
ordered by plaintifl, which have accrued up to the time of'
the discharge of the jury. In eases where a transcript has
been ordered by the court, the fees for transcription must
be paid by th re spective parties to the action or proceeding,
in equal proportions, or by such of them, and in such proportions
as the court, in its discretion, may 'order; and no
verdict or judgment shall be entered up, except the court
shall otherwise order, until the reporter's fees are paid, or
a sum equivalent thereto deplosited with the clerk of the
court therefbr. In no case shall a transcript be paid for
unless ordered either by the plaintiff' or defendant, or by
the court, nor shall the reporter be required int any civil
c-ise to transcribe his notes until the fees therefor l)e
tendered him or a sutllieient amount to cover the ame he
deposited in court for that purpose. TIe party ordering
the reporter to transcribe any portion of the testimony or
proceedings must pay lie fees of' the reporter therefor. In
criminal cases when the te.tiniony has been taken down or
transeribed upon tihe or(ler of the court, the fres oi' the re-
)orter shall lie certified by the court to tile ituditor of pubie
accounts, who shall draw his warrant upon the Territorial
treasurer for the amount so certifie(l and the same
shall be paid out of' the T itorial trewsury; lro'id,
That if' the defendant in a criminal action desires to have
the reporter transcribe his notes taken on the trial, lie
must. my the rel)orter's f'ees therefbr, or deposit a sumi
equivalent thereto, with the clerk of' the court theref'or, qr
the court imust reftse to order the reporter to ti'ansrihe his
notes.
TITLE V.
PEIRSONS SPECIAILY IN\rL;'1'rEI) WIT MINIS'rEIiIAL 1'OWEIMS
REIATING 'IN) COUIIS OF JUSTICM.
('IIAv-ri~ .[,
.[tIooi'iyy a I oonu'do's-a1--htw.
SEC. 142. Any citizen of' the United States, or permited
son Who hIs bona fide declared his or her intentioli to bieeys"
come one, in thle fnmner reqluiret1 by law, of the age of'
twenty-one years, of' good moral cha'acter, and who possesses
the necessary qualifications of' learning and ability,
is entitled to adhission as an attorney and. eounselor ill [Ill
the courts of' this Territory.
SEc. 143. Every aplictuit for admission as an att)r-
ffleCyu and counselor, tmust produce satisfiactory testimonials
of' good moral chalacter, and, except Its hereinafter provided,
undergo a strict exalhinltioln ill open court its to his
qualificatioils, by it committee appointed by the justices of'
the supreme court; P 'rovideTd,h at the several district
courts 'otfh is Territor nny admit applicant, to l
,s attorneys and cOileishelrs ili their re.spe.Ctive court s ulon
like testinionim and examlination.
SEC. 144. It, upoii such examination ill tie sulpreme
couiri't, the ap1plic.ant its fund ualified, the vii rt shal admit
him as al aittoriiey I ind (.ol1nselor ill all the c( oi ts of this
Tervitory, and shall direct :lit ordeP Io be e i t1e reto that
etlect u1ponI its records, n(I that a .ertificate of such rCiord
lie giveii to him Iy tile clerk ,of tih1e court, which veriiv'ate
is his license.
SEC. 145. The exalmination 1N hb, dispensedI with ill the case of a person wlo ha eielhl dlitthiiid as :ttiit'- iey and counselor il the highest couit if' any SIliie 0o1 other Territory, aind his ltfidavit of h hllmissio i, Sl w-.
ing tie coulltv, Stlte ori" Teritoty, tie namie )f' tiie vout,
inl the tilil wheln such aidilio5i O Wwa s otaillml, or his
icelise shiowlig tile aI5 e, s 'ill hbe decille d sliiieii to nIititle
him i ldmissiohn.
SEC. 140. Every ierson, oin his admissioin, munst take
all oati to, suilpor't tiie (onstitution 'oft ih Uni ited States, and tile laws ot the United States hunl of, tliis Territ ory,
and to fhithfillv discharge ile duties f(Ia'l l attorlney and
coUiseh )-,it-h tioi the best of' his klowldcIge :lid a'bility.
SEC. 117. E,,'h lerk must keep a roll of ittornevs mud Coll 11sehrors ,admitted to practice 1bl tile coilrt of w'.liCll lie is clerk, wllicl roll Iliust lie signed Iy li ersln a(d ilitted befire lie receives his license. Upll reeivimg his
license lie sh'all pay to the clerk a tie if five dollars.
SEC. 148. If any perso)n sh1 practice law i aly court except a justice's or proiate court, without having a licenIse as attorliev and ounselor, lie is guilty of' a contempt
)f' colurt.
SEC. 149. It is the duty of an attorney and counselor:
1. To support the Collstitution and the laws of the United States and ofi' this T'l'ritory;
2. To' maintain the resplect die to tile coulrts of'justice
and judiiciail officers;
8. 'r( coulsel o1 mainitain no other lctioins, lpiro e(lings
or defbiises than those which apliear tio him legzil and
just, excepting the lfleilse of t1 lesliii charged with a pill)-
lie oftliise;
4. To employ, fior the pIurpose ot maintaining tie'
caulses conlided tol Iiii, such mllis ,onlv as "Ire Consistenit
with truill, and never to seek to Illishillead ie juldges ivy .il.
artifice Or filse statement of, filet or law;
14o) . imintil inviolaIe tile confidene, and(, at every
peril to hliselt to preerve ile Seerets of' his cl ieot
6. ''o albslain f'oii all ollen.-sive personality, aid lid-
\'li o flt pel,ijdicial to the hollor or relutation of' at
pwaitrhtiy or N%1 titiless r1emq'ueir ed by thejiustie of' the cause whli(Ih he is c'har'ged;
7. Not to encourag~e eitheri the commencement or contillim1'
e (fta alc tion or l4'f'i- e'i d ing any Crrupt motive
of, lpassionor i4lte4e'st
8. Never ti (jei't , fI'ma1n y (o,sideraiin prlsonal to
hims elf" the c'alle of' the de th e 's~seld .;oles"
SEC. 150. Al 1tt44ley :ad couis'elI has aihtIlrity I1.T o'b inld hlis (.1ient ill am, of, thI t'!te p., of* :1) amion
(4' pro'ceding, by his ag'reenliet filed wilh tile clelrk, or
('Iltered 111)41n the Imilutes of' the ('(4tir, mi nll4ot otherwis-e; 2. Tlo receiv'e money c'l'iiiil by Ihiv,ie,n t il "liac tion
Or proc'eeding:, tnlpuegntdeen cy thereoi', or aftler" judgment,
ihiles' a revc'a':tion of his autliority is filed, ail
upon 1ayinv? lt there'of" ald not otherwise, to discthal-'g' the
('hlior ick14owledge Satisfilet(1io of' tile Judgtiei t.
SEC. 150. The at1ornv ilila c tion or specii proey'
,.,',liig Ilmay be change(d at ally tilm )efbo'e judgilnenlit or
fitial determination, a1s follows:
1. lTpl his (4w11 c' nsent, filed with th( Clerk or
entered uon1 the iiiutes;
2. ULpon the order of' the courlt or jiudge thereof
upon the applicition of the ('liolit, if-I- notice to the
' 2torney.
SEC. 152. Vhei nil attrev" i, cliged, its provided
ill tle hist p'recedihig sectioi, written notice of' the Clinge
and 4f' the slstitulltion oftii nelwa tto'ney or of' the app1mearalice
of' the pari'ty ill I'PIOl lnllst ble given to the adverse
1ai'ly; until ithen he must r'ecogn'ize the f'riner attorney.
SEC. 153. When iln attorlney dies or is reioved or
slISpended or 'eises to act is such, Ii pi'ty to all action or
pi'oceeodig, fbi' whioni he was ieting i15 attorlney must he-
Ibre ainy f'urtlher pi'oceedings are had against iiiii, be
requiledI)y the aldver'se pa'ty, lby written notice, to ap)pohit
anotiler iiltorny or to iplieai' hi lerson .
SEC. 154. An attorney n1(1 coinselor nay be resuspenion.
Ioved or suspeieidul by the su)rene ,ou't, aintd bly the
distriet courts for either of' the flollowing eauses, arising
after his admiussion to )'actice:
1. His on'victilon of' f'elony or nitsdeneauior involvlig
nmoral tirp1 iitiude, in which case the record of conviction
is conlhusive evidence.
2. Willful disobedience or violation of an order of
the court requiring hin to do or forbeair an act connected
with or ill course of his profession, an(d any violation of
the oath taiken by him, or of his duties as such attorney
and counselor;
3. Corruptly or willfully and without authority appluring
as attorney for a party to an action or prOccIding;
4. Lending, his nauiie to be used as an attorney and
counselor Iy another person who is not an attorney and
counselor.
]in all cases where an attorney is removed or suspended
by a (listrict Court, the jl(lgllleiit or order of removal
or snspension may be revived oil appeal, by the supreme
Cour't.
SEC. 155. In case of the conviction (if an attorne, coIiicio or coun lor of a 'elony or ilisdnliieanor, involving moral icl,,turpitude, the 'lerk of' the court ill which such conviction
is had, must within tlirty days thereafter, transmit to tile
SEC. 156. (.1urt a (crtified (Oly of' the record of' conviction.
Sl.:(. 156. 'lhe p'occediigs to move or SuSpend an attoriv .and counselor un(er thme first subdivision of' See- tioil 1541, must be taken by the court on the receipt of a
(certified copy of' the record of' conviction. The 1)ro(ecings
under the second subdivision of the last named sectiot,
may be taken by the court for imatters within its knowledge,
or univ be taken )on (hein formiation of' another.
SEC. 157. If' tit( lproceelings are upon the infbrnxa- tiolo of, anlother, the ,iccusation must be in writing.
SEC. 158. The aecuisatioin muist state the matters (hargcd, an1 Ihe verified by the oath ,)f some person, to the
efl'ct that the chlarges therein contained are true.
SEC. 150. After receiving the accusation, the court must, if' in its ,opinion the case require it, m'ake an order re-.
quiring the accused to aplpear and answer the accusation at
a specified time in the same or subsequent terni, and must
(1 use a (op) of the order and of the accusation to be served
upon the acecused within a prescribed time before the day
appointed in the order.
SEC. 160. The accused must appear at the time ap- pointed ill the order, and answer the accusation, unless for
sufficient cause the court assign aotlher dlay for tllat pi'tpose;
if lie do not appear, the court may proceed and
determine the accusation in his absence. 
SEc. 161. The acened may answer to the accusation either by oilecting to its sufficiency or denying it.
SEC. 162. If he object to the sufficiency of the aceitsattion,
the objection must'be in writing, but ;ied not be in
any specific ibrm, it being sufficient if it presents intelligibly
the grounds of the objection. If lie deny the
accusation, the (lenial may be oral and without oath, and
must be entered upon the minutes.
SEC. 163. If an objection to tile sufficiency of tle
accusation be not sustaine(, the accuser must answer within
such time as may be designated by the court.
SEc. 164. If' the acused plead guilty, or refuse to
answer the accusation, the court must proceed to judgment
of' removal or suspension. If lie deny)" the matters charged,
the court must, at such time is it may appoint, proceed to
try the accusation.
SEC. 165. The coutt may, in its discretion, order a
reference to a committee to take depositions in the matter.
SiEC. 166. Upon conviction, in cases arising under
the first subdivision of Section 154, the judgment of' the
court must be that the name of' the party must be stricken
from the roll of attorneys and (ounselors of tli court, and
that lie be 1)recluded from practicing ats such ttorney or
counselor in all the courts of this Territory, and upon conviction
in cases under the other subdivisions of tLat section,
the judgment of the court may be according to ti e gravity
of the oflbnse chargcd-deirivation of' the Iighit t) )iactice
as an attorney or counselor in the (ou'ts of ti us '.ierritory,
permanently or for a limited period.

SEC. 170. The appointment, powers and di ties of'
receivers, executors, administrators, and .1arliws, are
provided for and prescribed in the laws of the T 'ritory
relating to those subjects.
TITLE 1.
OF THE FI)flM OF CIVI, ACTION.
SEc. 172. There is in this Territory but one form of civil action fbr the enforeinent or protection of private rights, and the redress or prevention (if'r ivate wrongS. Sw.-. 173. In such action the party complaining i.s
known as the ltlaintifr, and the adverse party as the defendant.
SEC. 174. lit a case where neither party can, as of right, require a trial by jury, of' an issue of' fhct arising 0ponth e plundings, or wIere a question of' fiet, not in issue upon the p)leadings, is toI) be tried, an order for the
trial thereof by a jurv may be made, stating distinctly and
plainly, the question of fict to be tried. Such an order is
the olnly authority necessr y for the trial.
TITLE II.
OF TIIE TIME OF COMMENCING ACTIONS.
CHAPTER ].
'lhe Tllo of Commecing Action's illG cneral.
SEC. 175. Civil actions can only be commenced
ctions,w. ithin the periods prescribed in this title, after the cause
of action shall have accrued, except where, ill special Cases,
a diflrent limitia tion is prescribed by statute.
SEC. 178. The people of this Territory -will not sue
11iy pel'sol for or ill respect to '111y real property, or the
issues and l)olits thereof, by reason of the right or title of
the people to the ra1e, nless:
1. Such right or title shall have aecrued within seven
years before any action or other 1)roceedings for tile same
slt0ll be commenced; or,
2. The people, or those from whom they claim, shall
have received the rents and profits of such real property
or somIIe part thereof within the space of seven years.
SEC. 179. No action for the recovery of real propety',
or for the recovery of the possession thereof, shall be
nintalneld,lunless it appeal' that tile l)lainltill, his ancestor,
neograntor or predecessor was seized or plossessuI of the
premises ill question withiin seveii years before tile coinlety
meneement of suici action; and this section includes possessory
rights to lands and mining claims.
SEc. 180. No cause or action, or defbnse to an action, founded upon the title to real proplerty, or to rents Or l)rotits 'out of the same, shall be eifee'tual, unless it a"p pear that the fienn-person prosecuting the action, or making the detbIse, or of p . of under whose title the actin is prosecuted or the detense is
made, or the antcestor, predeessor, or grantor of such person
was seized or possessed of the l renises in question,
within seven years before tie commencement of the act, in
rehl)eet to whiich suh action is prosecuted or defebnse made.
SEc. 181. Inl every action for the recovery of real
)roperty, or, the possession thereof, the person establishing a legal title to the property shall he lresuillid to have )een
possessed thereof, within the time required by law, and the
occupation of the property by any other person shall I b
deemed to have been tinder and in subordination to the legal title, unless it appear that the property has been hiell and lnossesscl adilyersely to such legal title for seven years before the commencement of the actiol.
SEC. 182. Whenever it shall appear that the octupnt or those under who lh e claims, entered into the possession of the property, under clim of' title exclusive of other right, founding such claim upon a written instrument, s being a conveyane of the property in question, or u)on
the decree or.jIl(lgnnent of' a competent court, and that there
has been a continued occupation and possession of' the property
included in such instrument, decree or judgment, or of
soie part of the property under such claim, for seven
years, the property so ineluled shall l)e deened to have
been held adversely, except that when the prol)erty so included
consists of' I tract divided into lots, the possession
of one lot shall not be deenied a possession of any other
lot of the same tract.
SEC. 183. For the purpose of' constituting aln ad- verse 1possession by any person claiming a title founded upnon a written or be deenied to have been possessed and occupied in the eases:
1. Where it has been usually cultivated or imlproved.
2. Where it has been proteeted by a substantial inclosulre.
3. Where although not enclosed it has Leen used fbr
the supply of finel, or of feneing timber, fbr tile purposes
of' husbandry, or for the use of' pasturage, or fbr the ordiniary
use of tile occupant.
4. Where a known fiui'mn or single lot has been partly
improved, tie portion of such firmn or lot that iay have
been left not cleared, or not eielosl aecordiig to tile usual
'ourse and cu.stom olte ijoiiijg oultrY IllIl be deemed
to have been occupied lmi' tile ume length of' time as the
part implOv'il :id cultivated.
' i wi.( 1l.c 'o.)1t 8nin4 u. ed W'oheec ur lep itat i o " nioul f p ' lpae n'tdIh auut nltdh e(r r e(. l llahns boee)' ntf i atelll,
..e x(:]i. ive of,' ally otiher ri'lit, bult no.t f,6nll(hud ul).l 'I
. - r
writte instrument, julgileiit or (teree, the lan(d so octul1v O)eeulpiedl and no other .shall b~e deemned to) h'1ve heenl helil
a(1 ver5el(y.
SEC. 18. 'oi the ])urIpjos' e (f~'C onstitutilg .11 ad-
i..dveer se s)Oession by a erson cll nllmng title notIL, 'unled
u aa own ritten iistrillti, judinilent (leere( , hord is
I lr Nu d to have heen l)ossesse('iia nt o(','1Utid illth e 6i1h)\owill"'
a ses only:
1. iith ehrea s beel )rtecte(l by a Sstantiital ellclosullre;
2. Whe'e it has been ii. ialv ('ltivatc(I ,iiim't ri'ovel
W. here labor or miio1neV has beeniexpelded uponl
11da11(1 s, PmuIllin1)i,lk illeiIts, :uiq'luil'f5 or i)therwise, fo tilet
purii'psse of' iruign.ihig 1-aiudl s, iioni.ting to the stint of
five dola's per 're; o i'ded(', iowiev'er, Thitt ini no ease
Siall ad'erse poss.esion be considerei estaliisheis1 illd(er
tie provisions o t(ilsl eell or e(tihols (f't his (de:
l'es5 it sh nll Ibe shown thiit tit' (lIi h1n1 s eell ocuipied
initd I e(i iii' iol pieritioled ofe't'e iie ol iiiiti l', an ii(! Ipiar tyv or piersonls, their priedeessors tilndg ranhtors
have pallid all the tax(', Te'ritoi'iil, ('llity or initti iipal,
.whih have beenl levicxl ,ii assessel ui)oii stuel1il id iieeordihng
to law\.
SEC. 80. When the rehltion of* lalnlord a(d tlenaint
h:ls existed li:tweelii i ly per'ons, the lp)o5 ('.551.ion of tilt'
...... tennnt is deeied the li)ssesion of tile aidliord until tlue
expiration or seveii years f'roi tile ternlinatioin of' tle tell-
1iiiey) Or where thlere lits been ie written lease unlil the
expilition of sevel years f'roi tile tine of' tile hist l]in\-
lient of, irent, notwithlstaninhg thant sni,]ite llint iliy b;Ii\ve
aciquired liothie' title, (or Iia ilhave 'laihed to hol illversel'y
to his haindlord; itItSu leh pii'estiincitii(nilinot ie
ima(de iftei tile periods hereih lnited.
SEC. 187. ilie i'ight if aiei'siini to the )O.s'5o 5i(nof "
ffctLd I'Ulil prioplerty is ilot inipi' ] or ,1iZctedb ) I a desceit east
il onls e lli'i e. of' tihe deathl of it ut'siol n ill piss 'Si i (o{'
SEC. 188. I a piei'sile ntitled to (omlen;e oni
atctioiin or the recovero (r'1ea l p'()erty, or )f ' te 'eeover"
ifr the pissession thereof, or to make any entry o1' defense founded oi the title to real proiperty, oi' to rents or set- \'i'eO out of* the sai1e, be at the time such title shall first descendi or 1U('lle, eliher:
l . Within age (o majority; or,
2. lIsaIle; o' , :1. Imp~risoned1 oil 1 criminal chargZe, or ill execution
1ioll 'oni'etion ofan' ciminal otl(nse, F'r a tern less than
for life; or,
'4. A llarried womatn, IalIt her husb an(l he a neessar" party with hle' ill (1' 11 1 cinl'i sS ucg actiho n ll S0ct'hh g
entr'y (it- defe .nse; the,. tilme (11tlln which ,st(,h disability (!onittuit~
trt iclism iist endo tf odrve (thmee dc oa'nlmy 'nworIn)tlieoenl iot f oft,h e. Sttiithh.e. aicnt itohniss, oCrh atpheiakin
g (, sulch eativ (IV deflellsk, hlt such action may bhe
C'OMllelle, i' ct'r " oir detlse nu.de within the pieriod of'
twWodt i ylee alprse r, a(fmtce re nstuictlhe dId,l iswalhboi] itsYh asl lila ldli vc ea1s1en,d olrr al'ter the (l atil suc(h o}isability,
m)1 tluch at'ion shal.l ntbe Ioi I)ntence,(?l or etltl o1de-
('t.ise mlde aft'ti' thail periol.
(',\AI'rm.:u Iii1
Th/, 'rneo f (1o1 Ie'1 .('/ .Jioi. is other. 1 Jot /rIh Ico'-
cry of Real Propertyl.
S, uc. 192. The rio le.(ri1led fo1r the commell(e- il'it of .(.tio o ther tian fori the re(overy of' rea I p'o- are 1 .5f ollows: suribed.
SEC. 193. Within five y'(11m l1. A\i t at i o(n uponl . .1juv l 1ml n (re1t : ?
('oli t, of th(' tnitel States, or o aily Stit' or Teri'oi' ry
within the Uiil States;
2. Aun et1i a 4)1' thei nesne ol its of' real prople 'ty.
SAin:c . ac1t9li-o. n uWl)(iit hianl lyf oivt.ro .viteraalc'ts,: olilgation (Pi-l inbility, foundled1 lin ist.1-1 Ilel t of' wr'iting, exeplt thlo ! nlenlihlud
ill the pi'vedd ing seeti al.
SEC. 195. Within three \val's: 1. An action fot' a' liiaiiilit\" 'reated by statute', otier y'*....
1h,1ii .1 peiialty or fI'tlte;
2. An ac(tion for' trespa:ss iiip!lt real irOlerty;
3. An action forv t'aking-, dletaihthm, OV1ill .jiut'h" ally
goods or chattels, including actions for the specific recovery
of personal property;
4. An action for, relief on the ground of fraud or
mistake. The cause of" action in such case not to be
deemed to have accrued until the discovery by the aggrieved
party, of' the facts constituting the friaud or
mistake.
SEC. 196. Within two years:
1. An action upon t contract, obligation or liability,
not fbunded Upoll an instrument of writing; also oil all
op en account for good.s, wares aind elrchlndlise, and for
any article charged in a store account;
2. Al action against a marshal, sheriff, coroner, or
constal)le upon a1 liability inclrred by the doing of all act
in his official capacity, an'd in virtu *of his office, or by the
omission of' all official duty, including the noll-paylment o<
money collected upon aill execution; Provided, That such
action yllilY .ommenced within two years after the expiration
of' the term of his office. But this section shall
not apply to an action for an escape.
3. An action to recover damages for the death of one
caused by the wrongful act or neglect of' another.
SEC. 197. Within one year:
1. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture
where tile action is given to in individual, or to il individual
and the people, except wheln the statute imposing
it prescribes a ditlbrent limitation ;
2. An action upon a statute, or upon an undertakiung
in a criminal action for a forfeiture or penalty to the people
of the Territory;
3. Al action for libel, slander, assault, battery, false
imprisonment or seduction;
4. An action against a marshal, sheiriff' or other
officer, for the escape of' it prisoner arre.ted or imprisoned
upon either civil or criminal process;
5. An action against it municipal corporation for
dlamages or injuries to property caused by a mob or riot.
SEC. 198. Within six months; an1a1c tion against inl
officer, or officers de fmcto:
1. To recover any goods, wares, merchandise or other
property, seized by any such officer in his official capacity,
is tax eollector, or to recover the price or value of any
goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal pro)erty so
seized, or for danmages for the seizure, detention, sale of, or
injury to any goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal
property seized, or for danmages done to any person or
property in making any such seizure.
2. For money paid to tiny such officer under protest,
or seized by such officer in his official capacity, as a collector
of taxes, and which, it is claimed, ought to h)e refinled.
SEC. 199. Actions oil claims against a county, Which Same.
have been rejected by the county court, must lie commenced
within one Year after the first rejection thereof by such
court.
SEc. 200. In1 an action brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual, o en and current account, where there act have been reciprocal leiands between t)iaet t cuise of' action shall he deeumed to have accrued front the time of
the ltst item proved in the account on either side.
SEC. 201, An action for relief not heeinlbefore pro- vided for mutist lie commenced within four years after the cause of action shall have accrued, SEC. 202. The limitations ]preriled in this ClMipter shall apply to actions brought in the nanne of the l)eol)le )oPcf0 the rritory, or for the benefit of the people of' tile Terri- tory, in tlme same manner as to actions brought by private
1)ersIons.
SEC. 203. An action to redeem a mortgage of real with or without an account of' rents and lrofits, inty be brought b)y tile Iortg.goi, or those claiming under him, against the mortgagee in possession, or those claiming under him, unless lie or they have continuously maintained
all advcrse possession of' the mortgaged premises for seven
years after breach of' some condition of' the mortgage.
SEC. 204. If' there is more than one such mort- gagor, or more than one person claiming under a ioiort- gagor, sonic of' whomi are not entitled to maintain such an action, under the provisions of this Chapter, any one of
them, who is entitled to maintain such an action, may
redeem therein a divided or undivided part of the mortgaged
premises, according as his interest may appear, and,
have an accounting for a part of tie rents and profits, proportionate
to his interest in the mortgaged premises, on
payinent of' a part of' the mortgage money, bearing the
same proportion to the whole of' such money as tile value
of his divided or undivided interest in the premises bears
to the Whole of such preises.
SEC. "205. To actions brought to recover nioney or other property deposited with any bank, banker, trust conpany,
or savings or loan society, there is no limitation.

SEC. 208. An action is conuwneeed, within the
meaning of this title, when the comlaint is filed.
SEC. 209. It' when the caIse of action accrues
aga'inst a person,Ihe is out of the Territory, the action may
le ColI Ieiit'ci within the term herein limited, aafer his return
to the T erritory; mid ita'f ter the cause (f'th e action
qrll.iI, e depart friom the Territory, the time of is absence
is not part of' the time limited for the commencement
of' the action.
SEC. 210. If' a person entitled to bring an action
other than Ior the recovery of reai property, be at tile tinie
the ealise of' action ae('rllel, either:
1. Within tile age of' majority; or,
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisonel oi a (riminal charge, or in execution
nider the sentence of a eriminal court, for a term less than
for lif; or,
4. A marrid woman, and her hlsland be it nece ssary
party with her in commencing such action. The time
of such disalility is not a part of the time limited for the
colIlilelleeillit of tlhe a'tioni.
SEC. 211. If' a person entitled to bring aII action die
inlme. do-e tIii exiratiol of the time limited fbr the commence-
ires. ment thereof, and the ltse of action suirviveI, an action
Illay be Commenc(ed by his relp'csem tatives after the expiration
of tlat time, and within six montis f'rom his death. If'it personl wainst whloml all avtioni ,nay be b~rought, (lie
,lefl(re the expiration of' the time limitld fi' the conimemleemenit
thereof, and the cause of action sur'vive, an action
Illay be (ommlenced against his rel)resentatives after the expiration
of' that timlie, and within one year after issuing of
letters test:tament'V or of administration. -
SEC. 212. Wihen 'ap erson is an alien siubjeet, or eititime
Zell of'a c(oltiy at war with the United States, the time of'
the coiutillual'ce of the war is not part of tile period
lilitud f'or the eIIlCl etlle enCit of tile action.
SEC. 213. It' amI action is commenced within the
time prescribed therefbr, id a judgment therein for the Provision ,ibe I I"udgrent plaintiff be reversed on appead, the laintIt, oi if li dieb arid the ca(is e (f iction survive, his heirs or personml 'epresentatives,
may commence At nev action within one year
after the reversal.
SEC. 214. When the co,,mncemtctiient of IIIi action is stayed by injunction, or a statitory prohibition, tb time of .tie continnan'ce of' the injunction or prohibition is not part
of' the time limited for the coniiuenetnient of 6 netion.
Sec. 215. No person ami avail himself of a dis- Disabihity exist ability, unless it existed when his right of fiction accruied. right accrued.
SEc. 216. \\the two or more disailities co-exist at When tile time the right of'action atceries, the limitation does not 'attach until they are removed.
SEC. 217. This Title does not aflbct actions against 'directors 01' stockholders of a corporationt, to recover Itp en- aapcptiloincsa aity o1 forfeiture illposel, or1to enfmce a liability Created dlirectors, a' t~i'Oiir~iLimitatiotree suc
by JaW; but sii 'h 'teiois fimlist bQ b,'ouht within three such years after the discoverv, by the aggrievedl ptrty, of the scribed.
fiicts upon which the peimltv or forifeiture attached, or the
liability was CreaIto(l.
SEC. 218. No aekiowlhdgment or promise is sufli- Acknowledg-
,I t I inent to take the case out of' the ol)erations of' this 'Tite, unless the same is ('ontainle in some writing signed by the party
to be ScEhea.r g2e1d9 .t hereiw. When It a lse of fictioi hls risen I l another State or T erritory, or in a fhreign comitry, and by of the laws thereof :til action thereon eaniot there be ilai_ eTect tdined against .1 person 1 reasoI of' the lapse of' time, an
fiction thereon shiill not be maintailed against himi in this
Territory, except in flivor of' one who has beeni a citizen of
this Territory, a11nd who has held tile ttisoef ' action from
the time it accried.
SEC. 220. This "ite does not extend to actions ah'eady commenced, nor to cases where thi( time presribed in anly existing statute fi' a(Iuiiing I right or barring itaffected.
retedy las fully 'uni, but the laws uim'v in force are upplicable
to such aetions and oases, aid fire repealed sublject
to ti provisions of' this section.
SEC. 221. The wori action, as iSt'(l in this Title is to be coistiied, whenever it is necessary so to do, Is inil)d- ing I special proceeding of' a civil nature.
TITLE III.
OF THE PiARTIi's TO CIVIL ACTIONS.
SEc. 224. Every action must be prosecuted illth e
Ille Of the real party ill interest, CXcept it- provided in Section 226.
SEC. 225. In tie ease of an assignment of a thing
in action, the action by the assignee is without prejudice to
a' set oil' or other (lebnse, existing at the tinie o' or 11 *L 0 * C., .
before notice of the assignment; but this section does not
appily to a negotiable instrument transfcrretl in good fhith
and upon good consideration, before maturity.
SEc. 226. An executor, or a(ministrator, or trustee
of an express trust, or i person expressly authorized by
statute, nity sue without joining with him the person or
persons fo r whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A
trustee of aii explress trust, within the mueanling of this section, must be construed to inchlude a person with whotm,
or in whose naime, a contract is nade fir the benefit of'
another.
SEC. 227. When a married woman is a party, her
husband must be joined with let, excep~t:
1. When tile action concerns her separate property,
or her right or claim to the homestead )roperty, she lay
sue or be sue(] alone;
2. When the action is between herself and her husband,
she may sue or be sued alone;
3. When sie is living separate and apart friom her
husband, by reason of is desertion of her, or by agreement
in writing entered into between them, site may sue or be
stied alone.
SEC. 228. If a husband and wift be stied together,
the wife may defbnd fbr her own right, and ift'h e husband
ieglect to defend, she may defind fbr his right also.
SEC. 229. When a inifhnt, or an insane, or incomappear
petent person is a party, lie must appear either by his
general guardian, or by a guardian ad litcm ippoint&d by
the court, or judge thereof, in which the action is pending
in each ease. A guardian ad Iitem nty h)e appointed in
any case, when it is deenied, by the court in vhich the
action or proceeding is proseccuted, or by the u ie thetvof,
expedient to represent the infant, insane, or ;iCOfll)ettilt
person ill the action or proceeding, notwithstnding he may
iave a general guardian and may have apIlared by him.
SEC. 230. When a guardian ad iem is apipointed by a court, or the judge thereof, he imust be appointed ats follows:
1. When the infant is plaintif, upon the application
of* the infait, if' he be of the age of Fourteen years, or if
tilider that age, upon the application of a relative or friend
of the infint.
2. When the infint is defendant, upon the application
of the infilnt, if' he 1)e of' the age of' Iburteen years,
and apply within ten days after the service of' the slim-
Mons, or if' unfler that age, or if' he neglect so to apply,
then upon the applicatioii of' it relative or friend of the inflint,
or of' any other party to the action.
3. When fill insane or incompetenlt person is pariy
to an action or proceeding, upon the application of a relative
or friend of' such insane or incompetent person, or of
any other party to the action or proceeding.
SEC. 231. An unmarrieldf'i ale under twenty years of age at the time of her seduction may proscclte, Ls plain- tiff, an action thereifor, and may recover therein such da1- ages, pecuniary or exemplai'y,.as are assessel in her fauvor.
SEC. 232. A father, or in case of' his death or deser- tion of his fhniily, the mother may prosecute its plaintiff fbr tile seduction ot' the daughter, who at the time of lier seduction is under the age of' majority; and the guardiain
fbr the sefluction of the ward, who is at the time of lier
seduction under the age of mlajority, thouigh the dauighter
or the ward be not living with or in the service of' the
plaintiff at the time of the seduction, or afterwards, and
there be no loss of service.
SEC. 233. A failther, or in case of' his death or deser- tion of' his family, the niother, ,itV maintain an1 action fbr the injury or death of' a minor child; and a guardian for the injury or death of' his ward, when such injury or
death is caused by the wrongfid actl or neglect of another.
Such action may be maintained against the person causing
tile ijer or dath, or if' such person be eiployed by another
person who is esponsil)le fr his conduct, also lgainst such other persion.
SEC. 234. When the death of a person not being a is caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another, his heirs or personal reprusetutives may iiaiiitaii an a'-
iou IObr (ld mges :gain.-lt tihe perslo culsillg the death, or
if' Such per'soni he ell)l yed 1)), ,mother IWesoi' who is respolsible
for his coiihiit, then also wiist such other per-
,0!o. I1 evely 1t 0l!) 1111(er this aIItl thel )reee(lilg r e-ti),
steli (IIhuIages Ie) give) is (h1tler tll dile ('ilre)3stai1es
of tile ('u.se Im1y 1 Ijist.
SEc. 235. All .iterest M\vii4g ill in the
sulbject of' flt! actio), .ill(] ill o)itali iohg the relief lelallded, may he .ioind as l)ihiltills, except P lwhelont lerwis5e rlvided
ill this ('ode.
SEC. 230. Av I)ersm, may bu. mde . deitit'dlaenf
who has (1r (.liis .ail ilterest ill tile oiltroversy, (dverse to tie )filitill, or \Vwo is a !le('ss.l'y )ar'ty to a1 (0omplete
detel-il!tioll or 5ettillelit of ite (fItestioll itivolved
thereiu. Aid ill ali actioli to detenmille tile title or right
of' possession to real property which, at the title of' tilt
mnlell-eme(it of' tie Oct!)i, is ill tile possessioll of| . tell.'lt, tilt ]'mdh(ilrd ,may be jofild a.s a party deiviedahm|.
SEC. 217. 1In ill actioii brought by , lwe.-oii out (it'
l)se.4SiolI of' real property, to deteniile all adeh'e' (.latin
, )fal illterest or estate thi eleiii, tit'! i )e0l', makiii g sbch
addeLt'ieird.el mclta.i) im iad( ld ifi' ert,hSe) judilgl mitnI.i.te sio(1 1:1W Ie joied as hle for tihe lplaitiil ', lie
anmg ~yai nlsht afvthee ad ewl.rIidt llfto,r tile pi).1.50.si1 if' the premises as ill tie action, atgainst whl .juIdo
meit ]ms passed.
SEC. 218. I. Aiy two oi' mre p'er.m0s t'laiii ilg ail
esttet ot itt''e.t il laitIds ItkL( t' 11, et(IlIlOII l SO1'Ce Of' title,
whether lhildimig is temaits ill (ommoll, jolit telail ts, 'oipar'velers,
o r ill .everali, may unlite ill all .wtiol, agaill.t
ally pers0 'iaii l la l ver.e estate tor ilterest therei fri the lpt'lp(:,e oft' determininig such adverse ehaiiin, or of' c tahlishilg
such coolilloll . i't.e (f, title, or f' deciah'ilg tile .saile to) be hld ill til,IIi o1' oI, reimovinig a v.lould uponl the
S.1:11le.
SEC. 239. Of' tihe I'u'ties to the .wtiom, those whito are
liit(d31i n interest Ill.ist lye joi Ied as plai 1til., orI deifndanlts hut if' tile (OISeit Of* iINy .031, who should have bee joilled
as pl:aintill, ,'ararat be obltaillul, lie umy lI madle I dekhuIiailt,
tilt re.s(, thereof, hinig stated ill fthe- com plainlt; aild
illir tile h1ti.tll is. l o) ' I t'ollli)ll o i gellel'li illtel'est,
'- ' a
() l I PlI VI e . 0 vll !'tS It 'e ,il101' 1i ,,11 it i.silrutml to brill- them all Ibre fthe couirt, (me or
!imolIeO I1Lt e (tid' efctid foi tile bellefit of, :i1i.
SEC. 240. Pel'ri's0 sevei'aiiyi illyie Ileplli ti( sa1m1e'
Obligation Or instrument, ineliidliig tile pIrtieS to 1)111s of sitlea exchange and pHromnissory notes, und sureties on the same or the parties instrtunits, ma ll1, Or III)' Of' thei, be iICl1ed1 mercial ill the sante action, at the option of' the lliItifl.
Sec. 211. All persons holding as teints in C01)1- Tenants 111or1, joint tenants, or (opalmreers, or' any number less than iil,' ia y jointly Or sever1ally (onlllite 1 ddeeftee,n,iddi nagl civil ln, action or piroce(ling flor the enfbrcement or lprotcetioll of 'the rights of* such party.
SEC. 212. An act o11 Or ])ro(eeding does not abate by action the death Ol' any disability of' a pIrty(1I , )%w t he transfer of' not mily interest therein, it" tile (ause of aetion 1' proceeding
,su'vive Or ('OItllle. IIn (lge of the death, 01' 'til disab)
ility, of a p)u'ty, the court, on motion, IIIIIy ow the
aetion Or pocete'ling to he ontinued Iby or against his
repre.sentati'e 1' sIicccsmt.' ill interest. In the Case of' any
Other triisftr of' interest, the atilon 0' proceeding niay Ie
((tinued ill thill me of the Origiml pa'ty, oi- the eon rt ly allow the person to whom thill transferi is iliade to be
substitifted ill the action or proeediig.
Sec. 213. A defendant against whom an action to 1'e('oVel' t1)1)li CC.O ltract, Or illa ntiOllf* ejectment, or il1 a(tion fOr .efeeniain p5ePr(s'ofin aPll '0liP1)1'Or oClIettYy ii. pIeCnlildg i llYut thUie Ietoi'e answer, u1po1a)i flidavit that a )eIs-ol not a party
to the action makes migl hi"mst, and wit iout aIly collusion
with hil1 , a dem 1d 1111011 sucih (:ttit, Or fbi' su(h prOl-
(,'ity, U1)ll1 ilotite to such person .and the a(Iverse party,
a-pply to the cou't far an or(Ier to substitute suceh p)erson Ill
his place, and diseharge him fi'oin liability to either party,
o)n his depositing ill cou't tile aniount (limed oi1 the ('o1-
tract, Or deivering the plrol)erty, Or its v'alue, to such pers;
o1 as the court Illay direct, a( the Co't lay ill its
(ise|'('tio)l inake the oi'de'.
SEC. 211. Whenever conflicting claims ire o' niay
ie made u)o1n U person fOm' Or relating to peisonl ''rOler, or tile perfO'i1an (e of 1 obligation, Or ally portion the:reot s(u, cI'lh p-e,lrt Sso nto5 1 e o1 @ly )leb l r'tihnegm l nt1 o1a)1c i tlito ne' l laegilaIi ns-t,I llt(h eli ticgo antefl ictthin eg.ir
sevelral claims aniong themsch.'s. The or'er of sultstititi(
ll mav be ilade, I1and the atilt of' interi'lc~der I a e(t 0mitainedo an tilhe hult alit Ovre hi't tilth e disdarge f-',)1 liab~ility to .1ll Or '1N, of, till! co)uftiting claimants ,
al1tholugh their tidle.s r c.hliiiis hay(, not I c.ommon Origin,
.r'e not idhentical, but are aml\ersv, to)mid indelpendent of'
omt. lllnO|helr.
SEC. 245. Any person may, before the trial, interwhenando.
Vee in an fiction or proceeding, -who has an interest in the
matter in litigation, in the success of either of the parties,
0' an interest against both. An intervention takes place
when a third )arty is permitted to become a party to an
action or proceeding between other persons either by joining
thc plaintiff in claiming what is sought by tihe mplaint,
or by uniting with the (lelenaut in resisting the
claims of the plaintiff, or by demanding anything adversely
to )oth the plaintit and ihe den(lamt, find is made by
complaint, setting forth the grounds pon which the intervention
rests, filed by leave of the court, anld served upon
the piarties to tile action or proceeding, who have not
appeared, and upon the attorneys of the parties who have
appeared, who may answer or (lemtir to it as if it were an
original compliaint.
SEC. 246. When two or more persons associated iii
any iusiliess, transact suc] business under a comimlon name,
whether it comprises the names of such persons or not, the
associates may be suet1 by such (olonl name, the sumi-
IOS in such cases being served on one or more of the associates;
and the judgment in the action shall bind the
joint pro)crty of' filthle assoiate., iii tile same maner as
if all had been named defbnt(hmits, and had bleen sued upon
their joint li'a ilitv.
SEC. 247. The court may determine any controversy
between parties before it, when it oun Ibe (lone without
to, !) iv tthet rights o others, or by saving their rights;
I)it wheni a complete determination of the controversy
cannot be had without the presence of other 1)artiUs, time
court niist then order them to be brought in, find thereupon
tile party directed )y the court must serve a copy of
the sminimons in the action, and the ordei aforesaid in like
manner of service of the original summons, upon each of
time parties orderel to be brought in, who slall have 'ell
days, or such time is the court may order, after service in
wli(.l to appear and plead; and iii ease such party fail to
appear and plead within tile time aforesaid, the court may
(illise his default to be entered, and proceed as in other cases
of, default, or may make such other order as the condition
of the actioni and justice shall require. And when, in all
.letion for the recovery of real or personal property, i person
not a party to the action, but having all interest in the
subject thereof, makes ap)lication to the court to be madie a
party, it may order him to be brtoight in by the proper
amnendieni1t.
TITLE IV.
OF TIlE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL AC'rION.
SEC. 250. Actions for the following causes must be
tried ill the Judicial district inl which the subject of the cto .1. to action, or some part thereof', is situated, subject to the tshoem power of the court to change the place of trial, as 1)rovidld1 the-,in this Code. 1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate
or interest thereii, or for the deternination, in any form,
of such right or interest, and for injuries to real property;
2. For tile partition of' real )roperty;
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of' real property.
Where the real property is situated partly in one Judicial
district all(] partly in another, the paintifir mnlay select
either of. the judicial districts, and the district so selected is
the proper district for tile trial of such action.
SEC. 251. Actions for the following cauises shall be Other tried in tile jjudicial district where the cause, or some part where tot ' thereof, arose, subject to the like power of the cour thereof "change the place of' trial:
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed
by statute; except, that when it is imposed for all
offense colliitted on a lake, river, or oti'er stream of water
situated ill two or more districts, the actioa may be brought
in any district bordering on such lake, river or stream, and
opposite to the place where the olthuse was comlitted.
2. Against a public officer or person specially appointed
to execute his duties, for all act done by hin ill
virtue of' his office; or against a person who, by his conlmnand
or ill his aid, does anything touching the duties of
such officer.
SEC. 252. An action against a county, or betweel counties, may be colnmnenced and tried in the judicial dis- act triet where such county or counties are situated; Un iess such action is between countiui situated ill different judicial
dlistricts, in which ease it may be commenced and tried ill
either district ill which one of the counties is situated.
SEC. 253. I1 all other (ases the action must be tried
iII tle judicial district in which tile def ndants, Or some of
them, reside at the commencement of tile action; or, if' none of the defenldalts reside in the Territory, or, if're siding
in this Territory, the judicial distriet in which they reside
is unknown to the phiaintill, the same 11y be tried in
any judicial district the plaintiff ' may designate in his coinplaint;
and if the defntdat is about to depart fiom tile
Territory, such action may be tried iin any judicil district
where either of' the parties reside or service is had; subject,
however, to the power of the court to change the place
of trial as 1)ro\vi(Xl in this Code.
SEC. 254. If' the judicial district in which the action
iS ('ollienced is not the l)roper judicial district fbr the
trial thereof; tile attion may, notwithstaling, be tried
therein, umle-ss the detfmdant, at the time lie appears and
answers M", 1d. eiiurs, files' a allidavit of' merits, and demandis,
iin writing, that the trial he had in the proper
judicial district.
SEC. 255. The court may, on motio, change the
tria inin yf hag h
cases. plce of trial ile tiblowing clses:
1. When the judicial district du.iignated in the comaplaint
is not tile proper district;
2. When there is rcuson to believe that ati impartial
trial Cannlot be had therein;
3. When tile ( l venience of witnusses and the ends
of justice would le proilotol by the change;
4. When fi om any cause the judg7e is disqualilied.
fi'oili actinr.
SEC. 256. If' anl action Or proeeding is commenleM
0o1r pending in a court, and tile judge r justice thereot is
disqualified from acting such, or if' foir any caulse the
court orders the place of trial to be changed, it must be
tilnsfbirred fbr trial to a court tile parties may agree ulpon
by stiptliationl ill writinig, or made ill Open celurt 'and
entered ill the minuites; or if they do not s(o agree, thel to
the nearest court, where the like objection or cause For
makifig the order tdoes not exist, Ls fblhows:
I . It' iin the distri't court, to another district court;
2. If' ill tile prolate court, to the probate cmol'If
an iidjoi iuig (',)ulty;
3. I' illa jLstice's comt, tI anothe' justice's eo't iin
the same c(IitiNy.
SEC. 257. Wihen an order is made transfi lrin 'It
action or lproceeding f'or trial, the (lerki of the ('(It,o r
justice of' the peae, must tramismit the Pleadings anld papers
tlherein to the clerk or justice of the court to which it is
transferred. The costs n(i1 &ees thercot andi o' fliing the
)ap)ers '1mew, must be paid by the party at whose histatlce
the order was mde. The cotit -to which all action 01'
proceeding is tlranstiirrl has anld exercises over tile sal Iie tile like jurisdictiol its it it had beell originally commenced
t hereina.
SEC. 258. When an action or l)roceediig atihetilg the title to, o' ljosscsior (X1 real estate has I)een brought ill or tansferred to any district court, other than the dis- trict ill which the real estate, or some portion of it is
sitllated, the clerk of such court must, after final judgment
therein, certify, under his .e4a l id office, .Uld transmit to
tile district court of tile district ill which tile real estate
.lticd by tile action is situated, a copy of' the judgment.
The clerk receiving simih copy must file, docket, :1d record
t1 e judgment ill tile rucords of' tile court, briefly designatg
it as a judgment t ransf erred f'roml- court (namigi -
tile lroler colmrt).
TITLE V.
OF TIlE MANNI.Al OF COMMENCING CIVIL AcrIoNs.
SEC. 262. Civil actions it, tile courts of this Terr- tory ale (onillneine(l by filing i conllali1int ... cmencv,.
SEC. 263. Thie clerk lust indorse on the Conplaillt tile day, )momItl 011(1 year that it is ficld, anIl It an, time within one year thereafter, time plmantitm ay have asI1-
11ons issued; amid if tile action ie brought ngnilst twvo or
imore defel(hmts, who reside ill diflrent judicial districts
Or ill di f]Lremt Con,ties within tile same or diflbrent judicial
iistri,ts within tile rerritory, tile pllntifl may have a
•11111111(ll18 isslld fr i euli of, such coillities at tile smile time.
But at any timie within oeI1v ea' afler tile comlllaint is
filed, the detndant imma.iyll, writing, or by alpearliig and
answering or (lemlmrrinlg, waive the issuigll 01' s1111s110i8; Waiver ,)r, if* the tctiloI be brought uipon I joint contract of two "'...
or more defendants, and one of then hls appeared within
the year, the other or others may be served or appear after
the year, at any time beibre trial.
SEC. 264. The summons must bv directed to the
defendant, signed by the clerk, and issued under the seal
of the court, and must contain:
1. The name-s of the parties to the action, tle court
in which it is brought, and the judicial district in which
the complaint is filMe;
2. A statement of the nature of the action in general
terms;
3. A direction tlat the defendant appear and answer
the complaint within ten days, ift'h e sununolis iss erved
withiiin the county in wbivh the district court, in which the
action is brought, is held ; within twenty days, if served
out of saiid county, but in the district in which the action
is brought, and vithiii fbrty days if served elsewhere;
4. In ail action arising on contract, fior the recovery
of money or damages only, a notice that ittilss the defeindant
so alp)pcars and answers) the plaintill' will take judgnient
fir the sum demanded in the complaint (stating it);
5. Iii otlier actions, a notice that iiless (lefe(at so
appears and(an1s wers, the 1)laintiffi will apply to the court
fbr th relief' dmandcd in the cil)lint. The name of
the plaintifl's attorney iuist he indorsed on the suiimionis.
SEC. 265. If'the sunnions is returned withtout being
served on any or all of' the defbndants, tile clerk, up)l0th e
demand of the plaintitlt may issue an alias stmillo s inith e
same fbrm as the original.
SEC. 266. In an action affbcting the title or the right
rif possession of' real )ro)erty, the llailitifl at the time of'
filing the complaint, a''n d tie(l'efentmait at the time of' filing
his aIIIswer, when affirmative relief is claimed ill such
ainswern, or at any time afterwards, may file for record with
the recorder of the comity in which the property or some
part thereof is situated, a notice of' the plendency of' the
action, containing the nameus of' the parties, the object of
the action or defense, and a des(ri)tion of' the pro)erty in
that county aflbcte(l tliereby. Frol the time of filing such
notice fir record only shall a 1)urhaer or inc(,umbn(er of
the pr'opertv allbectcd tlereby be deemed to have constuetive
notice of the pendency of the action, and only of' its pendency
against 1)arties designated by tleiir real names.
SEC. 267. The summons must be served by the
• of
Uiiied States in,,, al 01 by the siei'f of th county
whiere the (lendant is found and served unless the court
or judge thereof shall otherwise order in any )articular
case. A certified copy of the compliunt must be served
with the Suimmons, tiiless two or more defendants tire residents
of the same judicial district, in which crse a copy of'
the colnpaint need only )be served upon one of such defendants.
When the summons is served by the marshal or
sherill', it must be returned, with his certificate of its service,
and of the service of any copy of the complaint, where such
copy is serv(d, to the office of the clerk fron which it isstied.
When it is served by any other person, it Inust be
returned to the same place, with all affidavit of' such l)erson
of its service, and of the service of it copy of the coniplaint,
where such copy is served.
SEC. 268. The summons must be served by deliver- ing a copy thereof as follows: 1. If'th e suit be against any iicorporated city, service
must be made Oil the mayor or recor(ler;
2. If the suit be against any county, service imist be
made on the probate judge or clerk of' the county court;
3. If'th e suit be against a school district, service
must be made on the trustees or any two of them;
4. If the suit be against any irrigation compaly,
service nmst be made oin the stllcrintelelct or water master;
5. If' the suit be against iny, other corporate body,
incorporated under the laws of the lerritory, service milst
be made on the president or chief officer, or its secretary, or
clerk, if' such oflicer secretary or clerk can be fbund within
the district, and if' not so found, then Oi any agent of said
company or person having in his charge or custody ally
property of such company. When the defendant is a
foreign corporation and has an acknowledged agent in this
Territory, service may be made on such agent, or if'no
such agent is found, on any person in its employ, or who
has any of its property in charge;
6. If' against a minor tiUnder the age of foiurtceen
yctrs, on sich ininor personally, and also on his father,
ntother or guardian, or if' stich minor has no stich father,
mother or guardian in the Teritory, then on any pel'Sol
having the care and control of such minor, or with whom
lie resides, or in whose service he is employed;
7. If against a person judicially declared to be of uinsound
nind, or inmpable of' conducting his own afihirs,
and for whom a guardian has been appointed, oil such
guialliain;
8. In illot her cases, on the defendant personally, or
by leaving a certified copy thireof' it his plte (Off511ut1
26
abode, with some suitable person, of at least the age of
fourteen years.
SEC. 269. Objections to the sinnons, or the service
thereof, ot proof of bervice thereof, in the particulars named
in the preceding section, may be taken by notion on behalf
of defendant, particularly specifying the objections,
accompanied by the certificate of counsel that in his
opinion the objection is well taken; after the filing anld
serving of such motion and certificate and serVing of sucll
motion and certificate, the time fbr pleading sldl be suspended
until such objection is pased upon by the court.
SEC. 270. Where the person on whom the service is
to be made resides out of the Territory, or has departed
ritof0rryo,m the Territory, or cannot after due diligence be found
ncoledrora- within the Territory, or conceals himself to avoid the sertion
Vice of summons, or being a corporation, or joint stock
association, cannot be served as provided in the preceding section, and the fact shall appear by affidavit to the satisfaction
of the court or a judge thereof, and it also appears
by such affidavit or by time verified complaint on file that a
cause of action exists against the defendant in respect to
whomi the service is to e madle, or that he is a necessary or
proper party to the action, such court or Ijudge may grant
an order that the service be made by the publication of the
summions.
SEC. 271. The order nmst direct the publication to
be made in a newspaper, to be designated, as most likely
to give notice to the person to be served, and for sueh
length of time as may be deemed reasonable, at least once
a week; but p)ublication against a defendant residing out
of the Territory, or absent therefrom, must not be less than
one montli. In case of publication, when the residence of
a non-resident or absent defendant is known, the court or
Judge must direct a copy of the summons and complaint to
be forthwith deposited (post-paid) in tei post office, directed
to the person tW be served, at his place of residence.
When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of
the summons and complaint out of the Territory is equivalent
to publication and depQsit in the post office; and in
either case the service of the summons is complete at the
expiration of' the time prescribed by the order for publication.
SEC. 272. When the action is against two or more e,
defendants jointly or severally liable on a contract, and the
summons is served on one or more but not on all of thei,
StlmeniISSL1 buted
the plaintiff may proceed against the defendants served in
the same manner as if they were the only defendants.
SEC. 273. Proof of' the service of suninions and Complaint must be as follows: 1. If served by the United States marshal or sheriff,
his certificate thereof;
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof'; or,
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer
or his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same; and
an affidavit of the deposit of' a copy of' the sttmions ill
the post office, if' the same has been'deposited; or,
4. The written admission of' the defendant. In case
of service otherwise than by publicltion, the certificate or
affidavit must state the time and )lace of service.
SEC. 274. From the time of the service of the sum- mons and of' a copy of the complaint in a civil action, where service of a copy of the co iplaint is required or of the completion of' the publication when service by publication
is ordered, the court is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction
of the parties, and to have control of all the
subscquent proceedings. The voluntary appearance of a
defendant is equivalent to personal service of the suinons
and copy of' the complaint upon him.
TITLE VI.
OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
CUTER I.
The Pleadings in General.
SEC. 278. The pleadings are the formal allegations 1),by the parties of their respective claims and defens .fbi pleadings.
the judgment of the court.
SEC. 279. Tile forms of pleading in civil actions
and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings is
to e determined, are those prescribed in this Code.
SEc. 280. The only pleadings allowed on the part
of the plaintiff are:
1. The complaint;
2. The demurrer to the answer.
And on the part of the defendant
1. The demurrer to the complaint;
2. The answer.
SEC. 285. Tie first pleading on the part of the
plaintiff is the complaint.
SEC. 286. The complaint nmust contain:
1. The title of' the action, the name of the court and
the judicial district in which the action is brought and tile
names of' the plarties to the action;
2. A statement of the facts'constituting the cause of
a(tio, ill ordinary and concise language;
3. A demand of the relief' which the plaintiffclaims.
If' the recovery of money or damages be demanded, the
amount thereof must be stated.
SEC. 287. lllThe )lailtitr may unite several causes of
a;tion in the sane comlplaint, when they all arise out of:
1. Contracts express or implie(l;
2. Claims to recover specific real property, with or
without danages, for the withholding thereof; or for waste
commnitted thereon, and the rents and profits of the same;
3. Claims to recover specific personal property, with
Or without damnage for the withholding thereof;
4. Claims against a trustee, ily virtue of a contract,
or by operation of' law;
5. Injuries to character;
6. Injuries to person;
7. Injuries to property.
The causes of action so united Iust all belong to one
only of these classes, and must affect all tie parties to the
action, and not require different places of trial, and inust
be separately stated; but all action for malicious arrest and
prosecution, or either of then, may be united with an
action for either an injury to character or to the person.
SEC. 292. The defendant may demnir to the coin- wil plaint within the time required in the sumnmons to answer, may when it appears upon the thee thereof; either:
1. That the (ouirt has no jurisdietion of the person
of the dcleindat, or the subject of' the action; or,
2. That the plaintitt' has not legal capacity to
site; or,
3. That there is another action pending between tile
same parties fbi" the same cause; or,
4. h'lhat there is a deflect or misjoinder of parties,
plaintiff or deflndant; or,
5. That several causes of action have been improperly
united; or,
6. That the complaint does not state facts suffcient
to constitute a tcause of' action; or,
7. That the compdaint is ambiguous, unintelligible
or ulnemertal.
SEC. 293. The demurrer must distinctly specify the Dmurrer grounds upon which any of the objections to the complaint are taken. Unless it (1o so, it inay be disregarded. It may ,be taken to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of' action stated therein, or the defendant may demur an (l time. answer at the samle time.
SEC. 294. If the complaint is amended, at copy of What the amendments imust be filed, or the court may, in its dis- ings had cretion, require the eomplaintits amiended, to be filed, and plaint a copy of the antemduents or anitenled complaint, must be amended.
served upon the defendants affected thereby, or upon his
attorney if lie has appeared by attorney. le deflendant
must answer the amendment or the complaint ts amended,
within ten days after service thereof, or such other time as
the court may direct, and judgment by default may be
enteral, upon failure to answer, as in other cases.
noOn2i2 
SEC. 295. When any of the niatters enmerated in Section 292 do not appear upon the thee of the complaint,
the oj ,etionm ay be taken by answer.
SEC. 296. If' no objection be taken, either by ded
murrer or answer, the dfebndant must he deeied to have
waived the Same, excepting only the ob(ection to the jurisdietioni
of the Contrt, and tile olbjcction that the complaint
does not state fhcts sufficient to (-ontstitute a cause of action.
SEC. 300. The answer of the defendant shall comn- ta|inI:
1. A general or Specific denial of the material allegations
of the complaint ,ontroverted by the defendant;
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense
or cunter claim. If' the ( omplaint be verified, the
denial of each allegation controverted must be sp eific, and
be made p)ositively, or aecording to the infoirmation and
belief of the defendant. If the lefbndant has no intbrnation
or belief suflicient to enable hini to answer an allegation
of tile complaint, he may so state in his answer,
and place his denial on that ground. If' the cotll)huint he,
not verified, a general denial is sufficient, but only puts in
issue the material allegations of the cimplaint.
SEC. 301. The counter claim mentioned in tile last section must be one existing in favor of a detL'nant and against a plaintiff, between whom a severl judgment might
be had in the action, and arising out of one of' the following
causes of action:
1. A cause of action arising out of tile transaction
set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintiff's
claim, or connected with tile subject of the action
2. In an action arising upon contract, any other
(ntuse of action arising also I1ponu contract, and existing tit
the commencement of' the action.
SEC. 302. If' the def'ndant oimit to set uIp a counter
claim in the eases mentioned in the first subdivision of tin'
lst section, neither he nor' his asinee can afterward
maintain an action against the plaintiff therefer.
SEc. 303. When croRs demands have existed be- tween petsons under such circumstances that if' one had sated.
brought an action against the other, a counter chm could
have been set up, the two demands shall be deemed compensated
so fir as they equal each other, and neither can
be deprived of' tile benefit thereof by the assig nment or
death of' the other.
SEC. 304. The defendant may set forth by answer is Ilany detnses and counter clains as he may have. They must he separately stated, and the several defeinses must refer to the (muses; of action which they are intended to answer, in
a mnner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.
The defiendant may also answer me or more of the several
causes of action stated in the complaint and demur to the
I'sidie or may demnur and answer at the same time.
SEC. 305. Whenever the detfendant seeks affirinative
relief against any party relating to or depending uponI the
contract 'r transaction upon which the action is brought, or affi_,ting the property to which the action relates, lie
may, in addition to his answer, file at the same time, or by
permission of the court, subsequently, a cross-comlaiit.
The cross-complaint must be servel upon the parties
atheted therelby, and(] such parties may deiur or answer
thereto fus to Un original c-iiiplaint.

SEC. 310. The plaintiff may, within the same length of time 'after service of' the answer as the defendant is allowed to answer after service of summons, demur to the
answer of lite defendant, or to one or niore of tihe several
defenses or (ounter claims set up in the answer.
SEC. 311. The demurrer may be taken l)pOn one or of' the following grounds: 1. That several causes of cu anier claim have been
improperly joined;
2. That the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense or counter claim;
3. That the answer is anmbiguous, unintelligible, or
IIi'I'ertai ll.
SEC. 315. Every pleading must be subscribed by
the party, or his attorney, and wheni tile eo niplaiiit is yenfled,
or When the lerritory, or aily othcer of the T'erritory
in his official( capacity is plaintiff, the answer must be verified,
unless . admission of the truth of the coIplaiiit
might s1IIje(.t the )arty to a criminal )rosc('ution, or unless
an oflicer of' the Territory, in his offiial capa'ity, is defhendait.
In all cases of a verification of a pleading, the
affidavit of, the party must state that the same is true of'
his own knowledge, eX(ept as to those niatters which are
therein stated on his inbrmatio or belief; and as to those
matters, that lie believes it to be true ; and where a pleading
is verified, it must Ibe by tile atlhdavit of'a party, unless
the parties are absent from the county where the attorney
resides, or' f'rom Some eauise unable to verit' it, or the filts
are within the knowledge of' his.attorney or other personl
veri f'ing the saine. When the pleading is verilfed by the
attorney, or any other erson exccept (ne of the parties, lie
must set forth i in the affidavit the rmsomis wiy it is not
made by one of the parties. When a corporation is a
party, tile verification may be made by any oflicer thereof.
SEC. 116. When ail action is lbro ught iipon a written
cm... imst'uiment, and the c omplaint contaiis a copN of' sun'h inplaint
is strument, or a Copy is annexe(1 thiereto, the geluineness and
due exec'ution of' such instrument are deemed admitted,
unless the answer denying the same be verified.
Sec. 317. When the defense to an action is founded
Upon a written instrmnent, and a copy thereof is contained
illth e answer, or is anexed thereto, the genuinene.s and
due execution of' such instrument are deemed admitted, unless
the plaintiff file with the 'lerk, within ten days afler
receiving a copy of' the answer, an affidavit denying the
same, and serve a copy thereof on the defen(aint or his
attornicy.
SEC. 318. But the execution of the instruments menrbuyl
tioiedl in the two preceding sections isn ot deemed admitted
by a fhilure to deny the same under oath, if' the party desiring
to controvert the same is, upon demand, refused .an
inspection of tile original. Such demand must be in
writing, served by copy, upon the adverse party or his
attorney, and filed with the papers in the case.

SEC. 322. In the construction of a pleading fbir the
t oe pirpose of' determining its elbect, its allegations mus construed, with a view to substantial justice be- tween the parties.
SEC. 323. Sham and irrelevant answerI's, and irrele- vant and redundant matter inserted ii plea,dri'nmg , y be (,is stricken out, upon suchit terms as the court may in its dis- cretion impose.
SEc. 324. It is not necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the itenis of an account therein alleged, but lie 1must deliver to the adverse party, within tell days after t demand thereof, in writing, a copy of the accouint, or be
precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or a
judge thereof, may order a further account when the olie
(leliverel is too general or is def-etive ill any particular.
SEC. 325. In an action for the recovery of real I)1ro)- erty, it must be described ill the complaint with such eer- tility Its to eniable all officer, upon execution, to identify it. 
SEc. 326. Ill pleading a judgment or other deter- inination of a court, or board, or officer of' s)ecial jllrisdiC- tion, it is not necessary to state the fleits coilfbrrillg julrisdiction,
but such judgment or determination may be stated
to have been dtly given or made. If' such allegation be
controverted, the party pleading lnltist establish, oi the trial,
tile flcts Colferrilig 'jurisdiction.
SEc. 327. In pleading the performance of conditiolns in a contract, it is not necessary to state the ficts showing stch )erflorlnallce, blut it may be shtted generally, that the party duly perflormed all the conditions on his
part, and if such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading must establish, on the trial, the filets showing sihe!
performance.
SEC. 328. in pleading the statute of limitations, it not neeesstuy to state the filets showing the delbnse, but it may be state1 generally that the cause of action is barred 27
by tile provisions of section (giving the number of the seetion
aind subdivision thereof, if it is so divided, relied upon)
of the Code of Civil Procedure; and if' such allegation be
controverted, tile party pleading must establish, on the trial,
the ficts showing that the cause of action is so barred.
SEC. 329. In pleading a private statute, or a right
derived therefrom, it is sullicient to reflir to such statute by
its title and tile day of its passage, and the court shall
thereupon take judicil notice thereof.
SEC. 330. In an action fir libel or slander, it is not
tnheec epssuarrpyo steo state ill tile comlaint any extrinsic faiets for of showing the application to the plaintift' of'
the deliiatorv matter out of which the action arose; but
it is suflicient to state, generally, that the same was puballeet
lisled, or spoken, coliceruniig the lhuintilf; and if such allegeS.
gation Ie controverted, the plaititt' must establish, oii the
trial, that it was so pulblished or spoken.
SEC. 331. In the actionls miettiotted in the last sec-
tion, tile dleclmlut may, in his answer, allege both the
truth of* the matter charged a1s defitniatory, tildi ainy lititigat
ing c reIlstsai nceS to reduce the amount o ' (hllnigc.
and, whether he prove the justification or I, t, he mlay give
ill evidece tile litigating eircm. timces.
SEC. 332. Every material allegation of the coinddeeenmiended,
lhait not controverted by the iswer, must, for the purtrue.
po)ses of the action, Ie taken as true ; the stateIiient of lilly
niew matter in the answer, in avoidance or colistituuting a
dtlefse or counter claim, nst, on the trial, lie (l'elied (oiltroverted
by tile opptosite iarty.
SEC. 3133. A material allegationi, in a plemi g is one
essential to the claim, or defense, and which could not be
stricken from the pleading without leaving it isulticient.
SEC. 334. Tihe plaintiff'and defiuidant, r.spcetively,
tay be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental coi-
plaint or answer, alleging fitets material to the eise, occurring
l1iter the former complaint or answer, but the making
of* a supplemental complaint or answer is not a waiver of
the cause of action set u ) ill tile fbrmer complaint, or of
the (lefbise set i l) in tile fbrner answer.
SEC. 33. All pleadings subseqtuent to the eonplhint
must be filed with the clerk and copies thereof' served tipoli
tke adverse )arty, or his attorney.
SEC. 340. No variance between the allegations in a
pleading and the proof is to be deenled material, unless it has actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice in
maintaining his action or debInse upon the imerits. Whenever
it appears thait p laryt has been so misled, the court
may order the pleading to be amended, upon such ternis as
may he just.
SEC. 341. Where the variance is not material as provided ii the laissetct ion, the court may direct the fhet to be floilltl according to the evidence, or iiay order illtimediate
amendment without costs.
SEC. 342. Where, however, tile allegation of' the claim or det'ense to which tihe proof is directed, is tll- proved, not ill some articular 0r particulars only, but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be deemied a case
of variance within the list two sections, but a failu'e (i'
prool'.
SEC. 343. Any pleading may lme lned oc by the party of course" and without costs, tt lly tille Ilefole answer or (leiurrer filed, or after deiuirrer, and before tile trial of tile issile of' law tlereol, by filing tile saeilals
amended and serving a copy oil tile adverse party, who
limay have tell days thcrcaftel ill which to answer or deimiur
to tie amended pleading. A deitirrer is not waived hy
filing ai answer at the same time; till(] when the delitirrier
to it complaint is overruled andll there is no answer filed,
the court ifay, ulpOn such ternis as m'uly be just, allow an
answer to be filed. If a deurrer to t ie answer be overruiled,
the fficts alleged in the answer inuist be considered as
denied to the extent mentioned in Section 332.
SEC. 344. The court may, in fhn'thcrance of' sti(.c,
and o1 sch terms ats may be proper, allow a pa'ty to alieild ally pca(ling or proceeding by adding Or strikillg
out the namuie of any party, or by correcting a mistake ill
tile n1a111e of a party, or1 a mistake ill ally other rcspeet;
Mnd lmay, upon like terms, enlarge the tinme for ilswr ,Ir
demurrer. Tle court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon such ternis ats may
be just, all amendmient to any pleading or proceeding in
other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made and filed after the timc limited by this
Code; 'and may, also, upon sue terms as" amy he .ust relieve
a party or his legal recresentative from a jundgment,
order, or other proceeding taken against him through his
mistake, inadvertence, Surl)rise, or excusable neglect; and
when, for any reason satisfictory to tie court, or the judge
thereof, the party aggrieved has failed to apply for the
relief solught during the term at which such judgment,
order, or proceeding eomplained of' was taken, the court,
or the judge thereof; in vacation, may grant the relief
upon the application made within Ia reasonable time, ]lot
exceeding six months after the adjournment of' the tern,.
When, fion any cause, the sunumons in an action has not
been personally served on the defbn(lant, the court may
allow on such ternms as may be just, such dealidant or his
legal relresentative, at in), time within one year after the
rendition of any judgment in such action, to answer to the
merits of the original action. When in antt aetion to recover
the possession of personal property, the person inakbig
it)" aflidavit did lnot truly state the value of the
prioperty, and the oflicer taking tie plperty, or the sureties
on iny bond or undertaking, is sued fZi" taking the sale,
the officer or sureties may in their answers set ip the trite
value of' the property, and that the person in whose behalf'
said affidavit ias made was entitled to the possession
of the same when said uffidavit wits made, or that the
value in the affidavit stated was inserted b)y mistake, the
be court shall disregard .the value ats stated in the affidavit,
nd give .judgnelit ccol'rling to the right of possession of'
said property at the tine the affidavit was made.
SEC. 345. When the plaintiff is ignorant of the
aie of a (lefenldat) he nist state thlat filet in the Colnplaint,
ad such defiendant may be designated in any
pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true
name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must he
amended accordingly.
SEC. 346. The court must in every stage of ai action
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedgfad
ings which does not affect the sulstantial rights of the uge"
parties, an(1 no judgment shall be reversed or affected l)y
reason of' such error or defect.
SEC. 317. When a demurrer to any pleading is slistained
or overruled, and time to attiend or answer is given, oranswor tiic so given ruts from the service of' notice of the decision or order.
TITLE VII.
op" rilE PIROVISIONAL IEMEIdS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
SEc. 351. No nerson shall be arrested in a civil ac- tion exc(q)t 1s P1rtscril d in this Code. 
SEC. 352. The deftndant may he arrested, as herein- after l)res('ihl, in the fillowing cases: 1. In an action fbi' the recovery of money or damages ) It(M ilse of ietioll .'ising iipoll contract, express or inplied,
where the deftbndant is about to dea rt f'om the Territory
with intent to defraud his cred itors, or when the
action is for willful iijury to persoll, to character, or to
property, knowing lthe property to belong to inother;
2. In an action for a fine or penalty or fbr a breach
:f" promise to maurry, or fori money or l'operty embezzled,
0)r frau(llently misap)lied or converted to his own use by
a public oflicer, or an oflicer of a corlporation, or an attor'y,
fitctor, broker, tlgent or cleric, ill the course of his
eiii1 loylienit as Such, or by '1myV other 1'slon in fiduciary
('apcity; or fo tmisconduct or neglect in office, or in a
professional employmnent, or f'ora willfil violation of
(uty;
3. In an action to recover the possession of 1personal
property tnjiiustly detained, when the property or any part
thereof has heetn concealed, removed or disposed of, so that
it cannot be iotnd or taken by tile iia'shal, sheriff; or
ojther executive officer of the court;
4. When the def'ndant has been guilty of a fraud
in contracting the debt or inetu'rring the obligation for
which the ittion is brought; or in coneealing or dis p osing
of' the property, fbi' the taking, detention, or conversion of'
whtich the action is brought;
5. Wheln tile defendant has removed or disposed of
his property, or is about to (10 so, with tile intent to defui'it
his el'editors.
SEC. 353. An order for tile arrest of the defendant
de. 1111st e ,, la lied fioi i a Judge of' tie ('t it ill whill tlhe
action is brouglit.
SEC. 341. The orderi mnay e made whenever ita p-
ear.s to tile jldge by ieVal lidtvit of' the pliiitifl oi-s ome
u,'ther iersl,t( h' at I sutlicii tt t'uise of, ction exists, aid
that tile ease is olie of those mentioned ill Setion 352.
The affidavit must be either positive or upon infBrmatioin
•anol)de liv'; anid when ulpol infirmation anid blief, it must
state the facts ulpon which the infirmnation and belief are
founded. Hfl ln order of' arest l)e made, thae aflidavit must
be filed with the clerk of' the court.
SEC. 355. Befiire ma'rking the order, the judge must
L
require a written undertalking on the part ut' the phantitt',
wvith .sureties inill aniioimnt to be fixed by the ijudge, which
liunst be at least five huidred dollars, to tile eftct that the
pdaiuitifl' will pay all ('lists which IllYa he adjudged to the
de'i lint, and all damages which lie may sustain Iby rea.~n
of' tihe arrest, if tile same be wN imgt'i ii or witioit siflileiit
cause, not exteding the sum specified ill the niideitakiiig.
'The undetakimng imiust be filed with th' clerk of' tle coirt.
SEC. 356. The order may b~ein ade at the time of't Ih(, . ,
iiin of the sti11 1on.1, or anyN tillic atf'terr'e(s, ielre
I d.l.gI . .i.t. It Iiust r(l iiire the oficer to whomil it is directed,
forthw'ith to arrest tie detcaudant a1od hold hlia to
hail in a sliecilietl Still, amld to return the ordir at a tilie
therein mentioned to the clerk of' thle Coti't il whi('h the
action is pel ing.
SEC. 357. The ordler of' arrest, with a co,p y of the
allidat it 1o1N which it is Ilade, must ie delivered to tile iiiccdrl iif(df,l eo,r ,up on I'restingl the ilef'enlant, luist lelive' to
hii a copy of the affidavit, and al's, it('e sired, a e(lV of'
the order of ai'est.
SEC. 358. The officer bust execilte tie order' by at'-
rtstiug tile defe'n(ant and keeping him ill cistody ulntil
diselcaled by law.
SEC. 3519. The ,'elindant, at ally tinue befire exe,'i- ilf, naust he dis'harged from tile arrest either UlVon giving
r ail or ul, l depositing the Ilolt mentioned il the order
(, arrest.
SEC. 3400. TIe de f'IMlMit IMly give 1)ai1yl caI Isi ng a
Cwr.iienttt ensu irnedtileesr, tatod n,t hteo be exectted I.e. two or mo e stli- etl~et that they are boumnd ill th,.
nOiloilit imlitionled in the order of arret; that tile defelldant
will at all times render himself' amenable to the process
of the court d'ing the pI)endenY of' the taction, 'and to
suh( as may lie issMl(2(l to enifrwee the jmdgient theiei ,
that they will pay to the plaiiitifl, the amuioiit of*:Ilv judgmient
which laY be recovere<d in the action.
SEC. 31. At aii) ti me before Ju(lgment, or within tell days thereafter, tile bail may surrender the (lefllnht iinth eir exoneration; or lie may smwrelder himaself' to the
oflicer of' tie court, where lie was arre.sted.
Sec. 362. F!or the l)url)ose of su rreiileriig the dekfedant,
tile Ial, at ally time cr pIlace before they are finally clhrged, illay themselves arrest him ; or by written authloity,
eilo(U l oil .t certifiet 1opy of' tile. l'idertaldng, ii ay
eilpower all ollver to (o So. U1pon the arrest of the det'emblit
by .s.id ,oficr,o r ilpol, his deliviry to him by the
idlor, hlwO his own slrrender, tie bail are exonerated, it'
such arrest, deiver y, Or surntider toake plhwe Iefbre the expirati
ll off tel days 'flr jildgmet; but if' such arrest,
delivery, or si nren iler le iot Iimade wi (in ten dav s after
J1(jugielt, the iloil o11e1 fill:dly chargid o thhei ir tiiiet'aki ig,
an( b(und to pay the lllolit of, the judgment withill teii
days thereafter.
SEC. 363. h1t'he lImil neglect or rehfitt o play the withiii tell days fler toen :re :1 act iol mlay be commcnce{:4.4 against Such I oiil Forw tile .1111olt
of' the original judgn'it.
SEC. 346. T.i he bail are (xouertt(ll by the death ofBall, the deilldalt, or his imprisolilltelit ill the plenitentitr v, or by his legal dischatrge fn l tie obligiltioI I to reiert' hiiself
amlenablle to the process.
SEC. 365. Within the time limited for that 1urpose, officer makin g tile .ire?tIsi iit Ist ile tile order' I0a Vr e's. t .pdlaeinrttaifkfi,ill the ofli(e of' the elerk o+f tle court ill which the action is pending, with his return elldorsed thereoii, together with jectionb : coly of' the undertaking of' the Ibil. The original tildertahing
ihemu st retain ili his possession uintil fileti, as
herein pl'ovidcd. The plaintiff; with in tell (ittys thereatfter,
lilay serve 1pon the officer a notice that lie does not ac(ept
the bail, or lie is deeied to have oecel1tt+! them, and tile
ofic'ter is exonerated rom liahiliitv. If' lto notice be serve(]
within teii (das, tlie oriigillitl ll('lertlikilg muist be filed
with the elerk of' the court.
SEc. 366. \Within live (Ilys after the receipt of' notice, the officer or deilalllt lilly give to the phtintiil; or his attorney, notice of the justification of' the sam1e, or
other bail (specifying the places of residence and occupal
tions of the latter) before the judge of the court, or clerk,
at a specified time and place; the time to be not less than
five nor more than ten da"- thereafter, except by consent
of parties. In case other ail be given, there must be a
new undertaking.
SEC. 367. The qualifications of bail are as follows:
1. Each of them shall be a resident, and householder,
or free holder, within the Territory;
2. Each must be worth the amount specified in the
order of arrest, or the amount to which the order is reduced,
as provided in this clpter, over and above all his
debts and liabilities; exclus3ive of property, exempt fiom
execution; but the judge or clerk, on justification, may
allow more than two sureties to justify severally in amounts
less than that expressed in the order, if the whole justification
be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail.
SEC. 368. For the lrpose of justification, each of the
bail must attend before the judge or clerk, at the time and
place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on
oath,. on the part of the plaintiff, touching his sufficiency, in
such manner as the judge or clerk in his discretion may
think proper. The exauination must be reduced to
writing, and subscribed by the bail, if required by the
plaintit
SEC. 369. If the judge, or clerk, find the bail sufflibail.
cient, lie must annex the examination to the undertaking,
indorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed,
and the officer is thereupon exonerated from liability.
SEC. 370. The defendant may, at the tilne of his
arrest, instead of giving bail, deposit with the officer the
amount mentioned in the order. In case the amiount of the
bail be reduced, as provided in this Chapter, the defendant
may deposit such amount instead of' giving bail. In
either case, the officer must give the defendant a certificate
of the deposit made, and the defendant must be discharged
from custody.
SEC. 371. The officer making the arrest, must, immone
mediately after the deposit, pay tie same into court, and
talce from tile clerk receiving the same, two certificates of
such payment, the one of whclll he must deliver or transinit
to the plihntiftf or his attorney, and the other to the
defendant. For any default in makling such payment, the
same proceedings may be had on the official bond of the
officer to collect tie sum deposited as in other cases of dolinquency.
SEC. 372. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections, bail may be given, and may justify upon notice at any time before judgmnict; and on the filing
of the undertaking and justification with tie clerk, the
money deposited must be refunded to the defendant.
SEc. 373. Where money las been deposited, if it
remain on deposit at the time of the recovery of a judg- ment in favor of the plaintiff, the clerk must, under the'plied direction of the court, apply the sat.e in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment must refund tie
surl)lus, if an), to the defendant. If the jidgment be in
favor of the defendant, the clerk must, under like direction
of the court, refund to hin the whole sun deposited and
remaining unapplied.
SEC. 374. If after being arrested, the defendant escape, or is rescued, tile officer is liable as bail; but he may discharge himself from such liability by giving bail at any time before judgment.
SEC. 375. If a judgment be recovered against the officer, upon his liability as bail, and an execution tlreon is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same proceedings
may be had on his official bond for the recovery of
the whole or any deficiency, as in other cases of delinquency.
SEC. 376. A defendant arrested, may, at any time
before the trial of the action, or if there be no trial, before the entry of judgment, a)ply to the judge who made theorderof order, or the court in which the action is pending, upon reasonal)le notice, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce
the amount of bail. If the application be made uo)n1 affidavits on the part of the deibn(lant, but not otherwise, tile phintiff may oppose the satme by affidavits or other proofs
in addition to tlose on which the order of arrest was made.
SEC. 377. If upon application it appears that there was not sufficient (use for the arrest, the order nmiust be vacated; or if' it appelars that the bail was fixed too high, the amount must be reduced.

SEC. 382. The plaintiff in an action to recover the of penional property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before aiwer, claim the (he- livery of such property to him as provided in this chapter.
28
SEC. 383. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit
must be made by the plaintiff, or by some one on ls behalf,
showing:
1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property
claimed (particularly describing it), or is entitled to the
possession thereof,
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant;
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof according
to his best knowledge, information and belief;
4. That it has not been taken for a tax, assessment
or fine, pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution
or an attachment against the property of the plaintiff; or,
if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seiztre;
and,
5. The actual value of the property.
SEC. 384. The plaintiff, or his attorney, may, there-
upon, by an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, reto
-
qiire the United State marshal, or the sheriff of the
county, where the prolerty claimed may be, to take the
ane, from the defendant.
SEC. 385. Upon the rceipt of' the affidavit t1(1
notice with a written undertaking, executed by two or
mmrnhoar e sufficrsieeint sureties, ap~proved by the United States Inarshal, o er], to the eilet that they are bound to the
defendant in double the value of the property, as stated in
the affidavit fbi the prosecution of' the action, for the return
of the property to the defendant, if' return thereof be
adjudged, and fr the pay)ment to hini of' such sun is may
firon any (cause be recovered against the 1)laiti, tile officeri
must forthwith take the property described in the affidavit,
if it be in the possession of' the defendant or his agent,
and retain it in his custody. He must without delay,
serve on the defendant a eopby of' the affidavit, notice and
undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally if'
lie can be found, or to his agent, from whose possession the
property is taken; or, if neither cal le found, by leaving
them at the usual place of' abode of either with some person
of' suitable age and discretion, or if neither have tiny
known plctce of al)ode, by putting thent in the nearest
post office (post paid), directe( to the defendant.
SEC. 386. The decfndant may, within two days after
tile service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give tt
nuo'tt ice to the oflicer that lie eoxcepts to the sufliciency of' the
sureties. If lie fails to do so, lie is deemied to have waived
all objection to them. When the defbndaut exce)ts, the
sureties must justify on notice in like manner as upon hail
on arrest; and the officer is responsible for the sufficiency
of the sureties until the objection to them is either waived,
as above provided, or until they justify. If the defbndant
except to the sureties, lie cAnnot reclaim the property, as
provided in the next section.
SEC. 387. %.t any time before the delivery of the
propefty to the plaintiff, the defendant may, if' lie do not except to the sureties of the plaintiff, require the return thereof, upon giving to tie officer a written undertaking,
executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to the eflbc&t
that they ar'e bound in double the value of the property,
as stated in the affidavit of the plaintif, fbr the delivery
thereof to the plaiutiig, if such delivery be adjudged, and
for the payment to him of such sum as may, fbr any cause,
he recovered against the defendant. If a return of the
property be not so required within five days after the taking
and service of notice to the defendant, it must be delivered
to the plaintiff, except irs provided in Section 392.
SEC. 388. The defendant's sureties, upon notice to the plaintiff of not less than two, or more than five days, must justify before the judge, or the clerk, in the same manner ais upon bail on arrest; and upon such justification,
the officer must deliver the property to the defbndant.
The officer is responsible for defendant's sureties until they
.justify, or until tie justification is completed or waived,
and may retain 'Ie property until that time. If they, or
others in their place, fiil to justifyt at the time and place
appointed, he must deliver the property to the plaintiff.
SEc. 389. The qualification of sureties, and their justification must be such Is tire prescribed by this Code, i respect to bail tpun an order of arrest.
SEC. 390. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a building or enclosure, the officer must pub- demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, lie must cause the building rw enclosure to be broken open, and take
time property into his possession, and if necessary, lie miay
cail toi his aid tile power of' the county.
SEC. 391. When the officer has taken the property, i-4 in this (lsaptvi Ilovidcd, he si'li keep it in t sc('urc place, and deliver it to the partv entitled thereto, upon re-
('civing his f'ees fir takinrg, in d IiecessaU'y exp enses fir
ke'epilng tie Slull('.
SEC. 392. If the lro'r'tv trkern I ( (nic iied I .iltC-her per'soii thain r her (lefliiailit, o illiiigesll t, irnd'sri(.l person nake affhidvit of his title threi'cto, or right to tlt,
possession thereof, stating the grounds of such title or
right, and serve the same upon the officer, the officer is not
hound to keel the property, or deliver it to the plaintiff,
unless the plaintiff, on demand of him or his agent, indemnify
the officer against such claim by an undertaking, by
two sufficient sureties.
SEC. 393. The officer must file thq notice, undertakwwhherred
ing, and affidavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the
clerik of the court in which the action is pending, within
twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein.
SEc. 397. An injunction is a writ or order, requiring
d' a lpr eon to refrain from a partiular act. The order or
writ inay he granted by the court in which the action is
brouelht, or by a judge thereof, and when made by a judge,
iayle enforced ats the order of the court.
SEC. 398. An injunction may be granted in the folgranted,
lowing eases:
1. When it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff
is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or
any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited
period or perpetually;
2. When it appears by the com)laint or affidavit
that the commission or continuance of some act, during the
litigation, would. produce waste, great or irreparable injury
to the plaintiff;
3. When it appears during th litigation, that the
defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is
procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of
the plaintiff's rights respecting the subject of the action,
and tending to render the judgmenc ineflhctual;
4. An injunction may also he granted on the motion
of the defendant, upon filing an answer in the nature of a
cross bill, praying for affirmative relief upon any of the
grounds mentioned above in this section, subject to the
same rules and provisions provided for the issuance of injunctions
on behalf of the plaintiff.
SEC. 399. The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing the summons upon the complaint, and at aiiy time afterwards, before judgment, upon affidavits or other and c evidence. T he complaint in the one case, and the affidavits I.
or other evidence in the other, must show satisfactorily that
sufficient grounds exist therefor. No injunction can be
granted oil the complaint, unless it is verified. When
granted on the complaint, a copy of the complaint and
verification attached must be served with the injunction;
when granted upon affidavit, without notive, a copy of the
aflidavit must be served with the injunction.
SEC. 400. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant hals answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order to show cause, but in such ease the defendant may be
restrained until the decision of the court or judge granting
or refusing the injunction.
SEC. 401. Oil granting an injunction, the court or judge must require, except when the Territory, a county, or municipal corporation, or a married woman ini a suit
against her husband, is a party plaintiff; a written undertaking
on the part of the plaintif, with sufficient sureties,
to the efltct that the plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined,
such damages, not exce-ding ana mount to be specified,
as such party may sustain by reason of tie injunction,
if the court finally decide that the plaintitl was not entitled
thereto. Within five days after the service of the injunction,
the defendant may except to the sufficiency of the sureties.
If lie fails to do so, lie is deemed to have waived all oiljections
to them. When excepted to, the plaintif"s sureties
upon notice to the defendant of not less than two nor more than live lays, must justify before a judge or clerk of the court in the sane manner as upon bail on arrest, and ulpOn
failure to justify, or if others in their place fail to juitify
at the tinme and place appointed, the order granting an injunction
shall be (issolved.
SEC. 402. If the court or judge deem it proper that
the defendant, or any of several defendants, shul be * heard befbre granting the injumetion, an order may be made requiring causse to he sllown, at a specified time and place, why the injunction should not be granted; and the defeadant
may in the meantime be restrained.
SEC. 403. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary business of a corporation cannot be granted Vith- out out due notice of the application therefor to the proper officers or agent of the corporation, except when thme people of this Territory are a party to the proceedings.
SEC. 404. If an injunction be granted without notice, tihe det'endant, at anly time before tihe trial, may apply, uiponl
reasonable notice, to the judge who granted tie injunction,
or to the court in which the action is pending, or' fi judge
thereof, to dissolve or mnodify the same. T le apl)li( tion
may be made upon the complaint and the affidavit or affidavits
on which the injmnction was ganted, if any were
used, or upon affidavits or other testimony oi the epart of'
the derendant, with or without the answer. If the application
be made u)on aflidavits, or other evielcne on the part
of the defindant, )ut not otherwise, tile plaintifll may 01)-
pose the same .by affiiahvits or other evidehnce ill addition to
those oil which the injunction was granted, and tile defendant
may then, ill proplr (lses, introduce rebutting 1Iati(flvits
or other evidence; Provded, TLitt for the puirpose of allowing
the plaiintiff" to introduce fiurther evidence, the answer
or verification thereto attaihed shall be deemed an affidavit.
SEC. 405. If' ulon such appli ation it satisfactorily
aitp )mpeuasr t tbhea td tihsseorelv eisd ;n oot rs tiifff iicti esnatt igsrfoauctnodr iltyb ra tpilep eil njuthnactti otinle,
extent of tle injuIlnction is too great, it must be modified.
SEC. 410. The plaintiff, at tile time of issuing the
Ilss"u'em mons, or at ,lily time afterward, niay have the property
of tile (Ieflel(tll 'at ttached, i. secIrity for tle satisfilction of
ally jIudgment that may 1)e rc.overed, miess tile (lefendant
givescurity to pay sti ijudgment, as ill this Chapter providd,
ill tile fbiowing c.ases:
1. Ill an action upon it judgment or upon a conltnict,
exlress or imlplied which is inot secured I)y any mortgage
Or lien ulpon real or p r).'sonal property situate or being ill
tiis reritory, or, if' origimally so sctceii' such security
has, without lany act of' the pllaintifl, or )f' tile i)e'5son to
whoml the sc(,urity was given, become Vlueless.
2. fnX ) action uonl a judgment o11r pon ca on(.tact, Vxprcss or implied,'mginst a defeidaut [lot residing ill this
Trerritory.
3. Int an action upon a judgment or upon a contract
express or imlllied against any person who:
a. Stands in defiance of' an officer, or conceals himself
so that process cannot be served upon him; or,
b. Ia-isignied, disposed of' or concealed, or is about
to assign, dispose of or conceal any of' his property with
intent to defr-aud his creditors; or,
c. Has departed, or is about to depart from the Territory,
to the injury of' his creditors; or,
d. Fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the
obligation respecting which the action is brought.
SEC. 411. The clerk of the court shall issue tle of' attachment upon receiving an aflidavit b)y or on behalf' of' the plaintiff, which shall be filed, setting fbrth, 1. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff,
specifying the amoult of' Such indelbtedness as near ats may
e over in( above all legal set of|s or counter clainis, anid
whether upon a judgment or an express o1' nplie contract,
and that tile pmyment of the stme has not been secured by
nny nortgage or lien u1)o11 real or personal prol)erty, or
any pledge of' personal property, situate or being in this
Territory; or, if originally so secured, that such security
has, without any act of' the plaintift , or the person to whom
the security was given, become valueless; and that the
samie is an alctual boun tile existing denianl due and owing
from the defendant to the plintif.
2. And in all cases that the attachment is not sought
and the action is not prosecuted to hinder, delay or (lefralud
any creditor of tihe defendant, and also specifying one or
more of the causes set forth in the precedling section.
SEc. 412. Before i.ssuing the w1'it the clerk nust r- quire a w'itten undertaking oil the lart of' the plaintiff, in a stint not le.ss than two hundred dollars, and not exceeding
the aniount claimed by the plaintifl; with sufficient
sureties, to tile effect that if the defendant recover judgmIent,
or if the attachment be wrongfully issued, tile
)laintifl will pay all costs that may be awar(led to the defendant,
and all danmages which he may sustain by reason
of the attachment, not exceeding the stin specificd in tile
undertaking.
SEc. 413. The writ nust lie 'direeted to tile United States marshal, or to the sleriff of' alny county inl wllich 1)operty of' such defendhnt may be, and must require Ihin to attach and safely keep till the property of' such defendant
within his jurisdiction not exempt f'onm execution,
or so much thereof' as may be sufficent to satisfy the
plaintiff's demand, and the amount of which must be stated
in conformity with the complaint, unless the defendant give
him security by the undertaking, of at least two sufficient
sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demand,
besides costs, or in an amount equal to the value of the
property which has been or is about to be attached in
which case to take such undertaking. Several writs may
be issued at the same time to the marshal, or the sherifh of
different counties; and the plaintifr may have other writs
of attachineijt as often as lie may require at any time before
judgment.
SEC. 414. The rights or shares which the defendant
may have in the stock of any corporation or company,
ill together with the interest and profit therem, and all debts
due such defendant, and all other property in this Territory
of such defendant not exempt friom execution, may be
attached and, if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy
the judgment anl execution.
SEC. 415. The officer to whom the writ is directed
and delivered, must execute the same without delay, an(d if
the undertaking mentioned in Section 413 be not given,
as follows:
1. Real property, standing upon the records of the
county in the name of the defendant, must be attached by
filing with the recorder of the county a copy of the writ,
together with a description of'the property attached and a
notice that it is attached, and by leaving a similar copy of
the writ, description and notice with an occupant of the
property, if there is one, if not then by posting the same
in a conspcluous p)lace oin the property attached;
2. Real property or all interest therein, belonging
to the defendant, and held by any other person, or standing
on the records of the county in the name of any other
person, must be attached by filing with the recorder of the
county a cop)y'of the writ, together with a descril)tion of
the property and a notice that such real property and any
interest of the defendant therein, held by or standing in
the name of such other person (naming him) are attached;
and by leaving with the occulant, if' any, and with such
other l)eron or his agent, if known and within the county,
or at the residence of *iither, if within the county, a copy
of the writ, with a similar description and notice. If
there is no occupant of the property, a copy of the writ,
together with such description and notice, must be posted
in a conspicuous place upon the property. The recorder
nmust index such attachment when filed in the names of
both of the defendant and of the person by whom the
property is held, or in whose name it stands on the records;
3. Personal property capable of manual delivery
must be attached by taking it into custody;
4. Stocks or shares, or interest in stocks or shares,
of any corporation or company, must be attached by leaving
with the president, or other head of the ,ame, or the
secretary, cashier, or other managing agent thereof, a COltc
of the writ, and a notice stating the stock or interest of the
defendant is attached in pumsuance of such writ;
5. Debts and credits, and other personal property,
not capable of manual delivery, must be attached by leaving
with the person owing such debts, or havih|r in his
possession, or tinder his control, such credits or oaertr personal
property, or with his atrent, a copy of tile writ, and
a notice that the debts owing 1j), him to the defendant, or
the credits or other personal pro )erty in his possession or
uinder his control belonging to defendant, are attached in
pursuance of said writ.
SEC. 416. Upon receiving information in writing from the plaintiff or his attorney, that any PeL'on has intonttoofficer
his possession, or tinder his control, any credits or other personal property bclonging to the defendant, or is owing any
debt to the defendant, the officer making the service nmst
serve upon such person a copy of' the writ, and a notice that such credits, or other property or debts, as the case may be, are attached in pursuance of such writ.
SEC. 417. All persons having in their possession, or under their control, any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or owing nny debts to the de- fendant at the time of service upon them of a copy of tie
writ and notice as providled in the two. last sections, shmll
be, unless such property be delivered Ulp or transferred, or
such debts be ptaidto the officer, liable to the plaintiff for
the amount of such credits, property or debts, until the
attachment be discharged, or any judgment recovered 1y
him be satisfied.
SEC. 418. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having in his possession or under his control any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, may be required to attend before the court, or judge, or a referee
appointed by the court, or judge, and be examined on oath
res)ecting the same. The defendant may also be reLuired
to attend for the purpose of' giving information respecting
his property, and may be examined on oath. The court, or
judge, may, after such examination, order personal property,
29
Qi)able of manal delivery, to be delivered to the officer,
on such terms as nuty be lust, having reference to any liens
thereon or clainms against the same, and a memortnltdin to
be given of all other personli property, containing the
amount and description thereof.
SEC. 419. The officer making the service mnust make
full inventory of' the property attaichied and return the
sanme with the writ. To enable him to make such returns
as to the deblts and credits attached, he Iutist re(1iest, at tile
time of service, tie party owing the debt, or having
tile credit, to give him a memorandum stating the amount
and description of' each; aiid if' stilh ilemflorln l lln be refused,
he nltist return tile fiut of refusal with the writ.
The party refusing to give the menioranduin may 1)e re-
ed 1 to pa)- the costs of' any proceeding taken (br the plt-
pose of' obtaining infiwnnittion respecting the amount tind
description of' such debt or credit.
SEC. 420. If any of the lroperty attached Ile perishproe.
able, the ofcer must sell thi same in the manel' ill which
such 1)roperty is sold oil exectiion. The proceeds aiid other
apnrsowpeerrt' ya nyat tjatdchgendm by him must I)e retained by himl, to t that miay Ie recovered in the a'ction,
unless soomelr subjected to exectitioii upon another judgent
recovered previous to issuing the attachment. )ebts and
credits attached may Ie collected by hi ii, it' the same (al
Ie done without suit. The receil)t of' the oticer is a stlicient
discharge f'or the amont. paid.
SEC. 421. Whenever property has been taken by i
Ol*' inelider it writ of attachlent, iId it as ade to appiear
tie satisfetorilv to the court, o1 a judge thereof, that the ininecsts
temCit o l
A, tie s to the action will be subserved )y .1
sale thereof, the coii't o' judge maiy order such pIroperty to
be sold ili the sante mnanner is property is sold under li
execution, and the proeels to be depositexi in the cotiirt,
to abide the judgment in the action. Such order can be
made only upon notice to the adverse party or his attorney,
in Iase such party has bee personally served with a stininions
in the action.
SEc. 422. If' aity personal 1)iol)e'ty attlelhl Ile
claimed by ,I third person as his property, the officer many smrYon "a jiv' of six men to try the validity of suell
claim, and Silel proceedihiis shall be had thereon, with
like ellbet, is in ('ase of a elaim after levy u)on execution.
SEC. 423. If' judgment Ile rcover'le by the pllaintilh ,
the officer fmluist satisfy tihe same oat otf th'e property ath
tWehed by him which I as not beei delivered to the deftindant,
or a elaimant, as hercinbefore provided, or stu1jected
to execution on another jil(lgient reeovered previous to
the issuing of the attachment, if it be sufficient for that
pulrpose:
1. Bly paying to the plaintiff the proceeds of all
sales of' perishable I)rOlerty sold l)y him, or of' any (lebts
or credits collected by him; or so much as shall be necessru'y
to satisfy the judgment;
2. If' al balance remain due, and an execution shall
lhave been issued on the judgment, lie must sell uinder the
execution, so nutch of the property, real or personal, as
may be necessary to satisfy" the )ahulnce, if' enotgh for that
purpose remain in his lands. Notice of the sales utist Ibu
given, and the sales conducted a'sin other cases of sales on
execution.
SEC. 424. It', after selling all the pUroperty attached by him remaining in Iii1s1, iu0s, a.iid applying tihp rocee together with the -loeee(ls of' any debts or credits collected by him, deducting his fees, to tile payment of' the judgment,
any balance shall remain de, the officer must proceed
to collect suchi balarce, as upon an execution in other
eases. Whenever the *jtugment shall have been paid, the
oflicer, upon reasonable demand, must deliver over to the
deicudaut the attached property releuiming in his hands,
an( any proceeds of the property attached, unapplied oii
the judgment.
SEC. 425. If the execution be returned unsatisfied, ill whole, or ill part, the l)hiintifl' may prosecute any iu- (lertaking given pui'suiant to Section four hundred it1l(1 thirteen (-113), or Section floui hundre(l and twenty-eight
(428), o1 lie may proceedt as in other eases u)on the return
of an execution.
SEC. 426. if the defeidant recover judgment against the plaintiff, any undertaking received in the action, all the cover lproeals of sales and money collected by the offieer, and all the propcrty attached remaining iin his hands, mast be delivered
to the defendmnt, or his agent ; the order of
'ttachnimt shall be discharged, anld tile property releasud
therefroi.
SEc. 427. Whenever' thm dlef niluuit has pead i the aetioli, lie lyy) Upon reasonable notice to the plailti, uapply to the cili't in which the i action is peindhg, or to the iudge thereof fol' fin orlder to discharge the attachmncut,
wholly o1 in parut; aid 11l)ln the execution of' the iuidei,-
taking meniitioned il the next section, ati o'de r ita'yI ie
Ima(le releasing ftim the op eratiou iof, liie attaiicmnt, .im1 V
or all of the property attached and all of the property so
released, and all of the proceeds of the sales thereof must
be delivered to the defendant upon the justification of the
sureties on the undertaking, if required by the plaintiff.
SEC. 428. Bqfbre making such order, the court or
judge must require all undertaking on behalif of the dewhat
tim(ant, by at least two sureties, residents and freeholders,
or householders, in the Territory, to the effl.ct that in ease
the plaint il, recover judgment in the action, defendant will,
on denil'n(1, redeliver tl attached property so released, to
the l)rope officer, to lie aplied to the payment of the
judgment, or in defailt thereof, that the defendant and
sureties Will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the fill value
of the property released. The court or judge, making such
order, may fix the sti for which the undertakiug must be
executed, and if necessary, in fixing such sunI, to know
the value of the property released, the Sane may be
appraised by one or more disinterested persons, to be alppointed
flo' that purplose. The sureties may be required to
JUstify bcltore the court or judge, and the property attached
cannot be released friom the attachment without their justificatioi,
if the same be required.
SEC. 429. The defendant may, also, at any time,
either before or after the release of' the attached property,
or before any attachment shall have been actually leviedl,
upon reasonable notice to the plaintitl, apply on motion to
the court in which the action is brought, or to the judge
thereof, for the discharge of' the writ of attachment, on
the ground that the sane was Improperly or irregularly
issued.
SEC. 430. If the motion be made ulpon affidavit on
the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff
May lIpl)ose the saute by aflidavits, or other evidence, in
addition to those on which the attachment was made.
SEC. 431. If' upon sich liilication it satisihctorily
appears that the writ of attachment was improperly or ir'-
regularly issued, it must be dischlrged.
SEC. 432. The oflieer making the service must return
the writ of attachment with the summons, if issued at tile
same time; otherwise within twenty days after its receipt,
with a certificlte of his proceedings indorsed thereon or
attached thereto; and whenever an order has been made,
discharging or releasing an attachment upon real proplerty,
a certified copy of such order imay be filed in tht, office of tle
county recorder in which the notice of attachment has been
filed, and be indexed in like manner.

SEc. 436. A receiver may he appointed by the court Apne in which an action is pending, or has passed to judgment, or by the judge thereof:
1. T1n an cation by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent
purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject any property
or fund to his claim, or between partners or others
jointly owning or interested in any property or fiund, on
the application of the plaintiff, or of any party whose right
to or interest in the property or 1111(1, or the procecds
thereof, is prolbalble, and where it is shown that the property
o fund is in danger of being lost, removed, o' materially
injured;
2. in an action by a nortgagee fox' the foreclosure of
his mortgage, and sale of the mortgagel property, where it
appears that the mortgaged property is in dangei of' being
lost, removed, or materially imjur'ed, or that the condition
of' the mortgage has not been perbrmned, and that the property
is probably insuffieient to diseharge the mortgage 3. After mjudgmet, debt; to carry the judgment into effect;
4. Aftem' judgnent, to (lispose of' the )roperty according
to the judgment, ox' to preserve it during the pendency
of in appeal, or in proceedings in aid of execution, when
anI execution bas been returned unsatisfied, or when the
judgment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfitiox
of the ijll(gnent;
5. 1In tile cases when a corpora'tion has been dissolved,
or is insolvent, or in imminent dlnger of' insolvency,
or Ixas fofr'ited its corporate rights;
6. In all other cases wlhere receivers have heretoflore
l)een appointed by tile usages of coux'ts of equity.
SEC. 437. Upon the dissolution of any corporation,
the district court of' the district embracing the county ill which the col)oration carries ox its business, or has its 1 iineipal place of' business, on application of aly Creditor of tme corporation, or of any stockholder or member
thereof, may appoint one or more persons to be receivers or
trustees of the corporation, to fake charge of the estate and
efihcts thereof, and to collect the debts and property due
and belonging to the corporation, and to pay tie outstanding
debts thereof, and to divide the moneys and other property
that shall remain over, among the stockholders or
members.
SEC. 438. No party or attorney, or person intercsted
II actfon ctall be appointed receiver therein, without
tile written consent of the parties, filed with tie clerk. If'
a receiver be appointed upon an av-parte a)plication, the
court, before making the order, may require from the ap-
1)licmt all undertaking, with sufticient sureties, in an
aliount to be fixed by the court, to the effect that the applicant
will pay to the defendant all damages lie miay sustain
by reason of tile appointment of sich receiver, and
tile entry by him upon his duties, in ease the applicant
slall ba;,e procured such appointment wrongfully, maliciously,
or without sufficient cause; and the court nmy, in
its discretion, at any time after said appointmnt, require till
additional undertaking.
under-. 

SEC. 439. Before entering upon his duties, the retaking.
ceiver must be sworn to perbrin tileni fiithfully, and with
one or more sureties, approved by the court or judge, execute
al undertaking to such person, and in such sum as
the court or judge may direct, to the eflbect that lie will
faithfully discharge the duties of receiver ill the action, and
obey tile orders of the court therein.
SEC. 440. The receiver has, under the control of the court, power to bring and defend actions in his own ime,
as receiver; to take and keep possession of the property, to
receive rents, collect debts, to compound for and coipromise
the same, to make transfers, and generally to do such
acts respecting tie property as the court may authorize.
SEt3. 441. Funds in the hands of a receiver may be in- vested upon interest, by order of the court; but no such
order call be made, except upon the consent of all the
1)artiL-s to the action.

SEC. 445. When it, is admitted by the pleading, or shown upon the examination of a party, that he has in his
poss.,sion or under his control, any money or other thing
capable of delivery, which being the subject of litigation is
held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs
or is due to another party, the court may order the same,
upon motion, to be deposited in court, or delivered to such
party, upon such conditions as may be just, subject to the
further direction of the court.
SEc. 446. If' the money is deposited ilclo urt, it must be paid to the clerk, who must deposit it, iler the direC- tion of the court or judge. SEC. 447. Whenever in the exercise of its authority, a court has ordered tile deposit or delivery of money, or other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court, beside
pmnishing the disobedience, may make an order requiring
the United States marshal or slheriff to take the money, or
thing, and deposit or deliver it in conformity with the
(lireetion of the court.
TITLE VIII.
OF TIIE TRIAL AND JIUDGMENT IN CIVIL A(crIOXS.
CIIAPTEIR I.
.Jud qmcnt in General.
SEC. 451. A undgment is the final determination of Jiudg the rights of' the parties in an action or proceeding.
SEC. 452. Judgment may be given for or against
one or more of several plaintiffs, un:l for or against one or more of several defendants; and it may, when the justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the
parties on each side, as between themselves.
SEC. 453. In al action against several defendants,
the court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to lproceed against
the others whenever a several judgment is proper.
SEC. 454. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if
there be no ansver, cannot exceed that which lie shall have
denmanded in his complaint; but in iny other case the
court may grant hin any relief consistent with the case
made by the complaint and embraced within the issue.
SEC. 455. An action may be dismissed, or a judgdismissed
nient of nonsuit entered in the following cases:
1. By the plaintiff hilnself at any time before trial,
upon the payment of costs, if" a counter claiin has not been
nmde, or aflirinative relief sought by the eross complaint
or answer of the defendant. If a provisional remedy has
been allowed the undertaking nmust thereupon be delivered
by the clerk to the defendant, who may have his action
thereon;
2. By either party upon the written consent of the
other;
3. By the court when the plaintiff fails to appear on
the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the dis-
Inissal;
4. By the court, when u)on the trial and before the
final submission of the case the plaintiff abandons it;
5. By the court upon motion of the deftndant, when
upon the tial the llaintill thils to l)rove a sufficient c ase
for the jury. The (isissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions is niade by an entry in tie clerk's register.
Judgment may thereupon )n entered accordingly.
SEC. 456. In every case, other than those mentioned
II the last section, judglent muist be rendered oil the
IIleits.

SEC. 460. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fiil to answer the complaint, as follows: -- ~~~ . 1. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery , • • . • t* • of money or damages only, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of the court within the time specified in the
sunmons, or such further time as may tve been granted,
the clerk, upoi application of the plaintiff, must enter the
deihult of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter
judgment for the amount specified in the summons, including
the costs, against tie defendant, or against one or
more of several defendants, in the cases provided for in Section two hundred and seventy-one (271);
2. In other actions, if no action has been filed with
the clerk of the court within the time specified in the sumnions,
or such fhrther time as may have been granted, the
clerk must enter the defhult of the defendant; and thereafter
the plaintiff may apply, at the first, or any subsecuent
term of the court, for the relief demanded in the complaint.
-If the taking of an account, or the proof of any filet, is
necessary to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry
the judgment into effect, the court may take the account, or
hear the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference
for that purpose. And where the action is for the recove,
of damages, in whole or part, the court may order
the damages to be assessed by a jury; or, if to determine
the amount of damages, the examination of a long account
be involved, by reference, as above provided;
3. In actions where the service of the summons was
by publication, the plaintiff, upon the expirationof tile
time for answering, may, upon proof of the publication,
and that no answer has been filed, apply for judgment;
and the'court must thereupon require proof to be made of'
the demand 'Mentioned in the complaint, and if the defendant
be not a resident of the Territory, must require
the plaintiff, or his agent, to be examined on oath respecting
any payments that have been made to the plaintiff, or
30
to any one for his use, on account of such demand, and
may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled
to recover.
SEC. 465. Issues arise upon the pleadings, when a
fiet or a conclusion of law is minai ned by tie one party,
and is controverted bv the other. They tare of two kinds:
1. Of law; and,
2. Of filet.
Sec. 466. Al issue of' law arises upon a dennurrer
to the comilplaint, or answer, or to sonic lrt thereof.
Sec. 467. An issue of fact arises:
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted
by the answer; and,
2. Upon new matters in the answer, except an issue
of law is joined thereon.
SiC. 468. An issue of law lust be tried by tile
court, unless it is referred upon conselt.
SEC. 469. fn actions for tile recovery of' specific real
rsonal lro)erty, with or without damages, or for
money claited as (ite upon contract, or itsd amages for
I)reach of contract, or for injuries, an issue of' fact llnfibest
tried by a jury, Iltll(s a.jury trial is waived, or a reference
is ordered, 1ts provided in this Code. Where in these cases
there are issues both of law and fict, the issue of law mtust
be first disposed of. In other case, issues of' fact must be
tried by the court subject to its power to order any such
issue to be tried by a jury or to be referred to a referee, as
provided in this Coxle.
SEC. 470. The clerk innst enter causes upon the
calendar of tile court according to the dlate of issue.
Causes once placed on the calendar must remin upon tie
calendar frot court to court, until finally disposed of;
Provided, -[hat causes may be dropped from tile calendar
by consCit of parties, or b) order of' the court or judge,
and may be again restored upon notice.
SEC. 471 Either party may bring an issue to trial,
or to a hearing, and in tile absecee of tile adverse parl'ty,
unless tile court for goodi cause otherwise dliret, Illy )rloceed
with his case and take a dismissal of. the action, or a
verdict or judgment, as the Case may retuire.
SEC. 472, A motion to postpone a trial, on the ground of the absence of evidence, can only be iiade upon affidavit showing the materiality of the evidence expCCted to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to procure
it. The court .iiay also require the moving party to
state, upon aflidavit, the evidence which lie expects to obtain,
and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such
evidence would be given, and that it be considered as aettially
given on the trial, or oflhred and overruled as inproper,
the trial niust not be postpoued.
SEC. 473. The party obtaining at postponement of' a trial must, if required by the adverse party, coinscnt that the te.stimony of any witness of suich adver.se party, who is in attendance, be then taken by deposition before 'tju dge or clerk of the court in which the ese is pending, or before te.
such other officer us the court may ii d icate, which must
accordingly be done, and the testi'mony so taken may be
read oii the trial with the saiue effect, anud subject to the
same objections, as if' the witnesses were produced. 1n actions involving the title to mining elainis and quartz 1Iltenlt ledges, if' it be tiade to appear to the satisfaction of the court that in order that ~justice may be done, and the action firly tried ,11 its real merits, it is necessary that f'nrther
developments should l)e made, and that the party applying
has been guilty of 110 laches and is acting in good faith,
the court shall grant the postponemeut of the trial of' the
action, giving the party a reasonable time in which to prepare
ior trial. And in grnting such postponement, the
court may, in its dis'rction, annex as a condition thereto,
an order' that the party obtaining such postponement shall
not, pending the trial of the action, remove f'om the premises
in controversy any valuable quartz rock, earth or ores,
and for any violation of an order so made, the court, or
ju(ge thereof, may pnish for ('ontempt, as in the ases oif'
violation of' an order of' injunction, and may also vta('itt(
the order of( postponement.
SEC. 477. When the action is culled for trial by
jury, the clerk must draw from the trial jury box of the
court, the ballots containing the names of the jurors, until
the jury is completed or the ballots are exhausted.
SEC. 478. Either party may challenge the jurors, but
where there are several parties on either side, they must join in a challenge before it cin be made. The challenges
are to individval jurors, and are either peremptory or for
cause. Each party is entitled to three peremptory challenges.
If no peremptory challenges are taken until the
panel is full they must be taken by the parties alternately,
commencing with the plaintiff.
SEc. 479. Challenge-s for cause may be taken on one
or more of the following grounds:
1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by
statute to render a person competent as a juror;
2. Consanguinity or affinity within the third degree
to either party;
3. Standing in the relation of debtor or creditor,
guiardian and ward, master and servant, employer and clerk,
Or principal and agent to either party; or being a member
of the fhnily of either party; or a partner, or united in
business with either party; or being surety on any bond
or obligation for either pai ty;
4. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a
previous trial between the same parties for the same cause
of action, or being then a witness therein.
5. Pecuniary interest on the part of the juror in the
event of the action; or in the main question involved in
the action; except his interest as a member or citizen of a
municipal corporation;
6. Having formed or expressed an unqualified
opinion or belief as to the merits of the action, or main
question involved therein; Provided, That the reading of
newspaper accounts of the subject matter befbre the court,
shall not disqualify a juror either for bias or opinion;
7. The existence of a state of mind in the juror,
evincing enmity against, or bias to or against either Ixrty.
SEC. 480. Challenges f-or an-use must• lnb~ee tried by the Chaiienges, court. Te juror e-lallcngel, and any other person, may tried.
be examined as a witness on the trial of the challenge.
SEC. 481. As soon as the jury is completed, an Jury oath must be administered to the jurors, in substance, that
they and each of them will well and truly try the matter
in issue between- the plaintiff; and- - defendant,
and a true verdict render according to the evidence.
SEC. 482. When the jury has been sworn, the trial Order must proceed in the following order, unless the judge, for cceng special reasons, otherwise directs:
1. The plaintiff, after stating the isstue and his case,
must produce the evidence on his part;
2. The defendant may then open his defence, and
offer his evidence in support thereof;
3. [ he parties may then respectively offer rebutting
evidence only, unless the court, for good reasons, in furtherance
of justice, permit theni to ofifr evidence upon
their original case;
,1. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case
is submitted to the jury oi either side, or on both sides,
without argument, the plaintifl must commence and
may conclude the argument;
5. If several defendants, having separate defenses,
appear by diftbrent counsel, the coLrt must determine their
relative order in the evidence and argument;
6. The court may then charge the jury.
SEC. 483. In charging the jury, the court may state to them all matters of law it thinks necessary for their in- formation in giving their verdict, and if it state the testimommy
of the case it must inform the jury that they are the
exclusive judges of all questions of fact. The court must
furnish to either party, at the time, upon request, a state- in writing of' the points of law contained in te charge, or sign, at the time, a statement of such points prepared and submitted by the counsel of either party. 
SEc. 484. Where either party asks special instruc- tinns to be given to the jury, the court must either give such instructions as requested, or refuse to do so, or give
the instruction with a modification, in such manner that it
may distinctly appear what instructions were given in
whole or in part.
SEC. 485. When in the opinion of the court, it is proper for the jury to have a view of time property which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in whIch an"
material fact occurred, in may order them to be conducte,
in a body, under the charge of an officer, to tie place,
which shall be shown to them by some person appointed
b the court for that pur'pose. While tie jury are thus
unosepoetr,s on, other than the person so appointed, shall
speak to them on any subject connected with the trial.
SEC. 486. If the jury are permitted to separate,
ither during the trial, or after the case is submitted to
them, they shall be admonished by the court that it is their
duty not to converse with, or suffer themselves to be addressed
by any other person on any subject of the trial,
and that it is their duty not to form or express an opinion
thereon until the case is finally submitted to them.
SEC. 487. Upon retiring for deliberation, the Jury
In)iainy take with them all paper.s (except depositions)) w% hlcich
have been received as evidence in tie cause, or copies of
such papers as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be
taken from the person having them in possession, and they
may also take with them notes of tile testimony, or other
proceedings on tile trial, taken by themselves or any of
them, but none taken by any other person.
SEc. 488. When the (se is finally submitted to the
jury they may decide in court, or retire for deliberation.
If' the) retire, they must be ke)t together in a room or
or some other convenient place provided fior them, under
the charge of one or more officers, until they agree upon a
verdict, or are discharged by tie court. The officer must
to the utmost of his ability keep the jury separate from
other persons; he shall not suffer any communicfttion to be
made to them, or make any himself, unless by order of the
court, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their
verdict; and he must not, beibre the verdict is rendered,
communicate to any person tile state of their deliberations,
or the verdict agreed upon.
SEC. 489. After tile jury have retired for deliberacol.,,
tion if theje be a disagreement between as to any part of the testimony, or if they desire to be informed of any
point of law arising in the cause, they may require th'e
officer to conduct them into court. Upon their being
brought into court, the information required must be
given in the presence of, or after notice to, the parties or
counsel.
SEC. 490. If, after the impaneling of the jury, and
before verdict, a juror becomes sick, so as to be unable to
erfoirm his duty, tile court may order him to be discharged.
In that case tile trial may proceed with the other jurors, or
another juror may be sworn and the trial begin anew ; or
the jury may be discharged, and a new jury, then or afterwards,
impaneled.
SEC. 491. In all eases where the jury are discharge, or prevented from giving a verdict by reason of accident or other cause during the progress of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the action may be again tried, immediately or at a future time, as the court may direct.
SEC. 492. While the jury are absent the court may adjourn from time to tine in respect to other business, but it is nevertheless open for every purpose connected with tile ciuse submitted to the jury unti a verdict is rendered, or
thber juriny ad ischar ed. The* court may direct the jury to bring il a sealed verdict at the opening of the court, '11 case of an ag reement during a recess or adjournment for the day. A final adjournment of the court fbr tie term (ischarges the jury.
SEC. 493. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they must be conducted into court, their names called by the clerk, and the verdict rendered by their foreman.
The verdict must be in writing, signed by the fore- man, and must be read by the clerk to the jury, and the
inquiry made whether it is their verdict. If any juror disagrees,
they must be sent out again; but if no disagreement
be expressaed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled, the verdict is complete and tie jury discharged
from the case. Either party may require the jury to be
polled, which is done by the court or clerk asking each
juror if it is his verdict. If any one answer in the negative,
the jury must again be sent out.
SEC. 494. When the verdict is announced, if it is
informal or insufficient, in not covering the issue submitted, it may be corrected by the jury under the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out.
SEC. 495. The verdict of the jury is either general or special. A general verdit is that by which they pro- nounee generally upon all or any of the issues, either in fivor of the plaintiff or defendant; it special verdict is
that by which the jury find the flcts only, leaving the judgment
to the court. The special verdict must present the
conclusions of fact as established by the evidence, and not
the e'vidence to prove them; and those conclusions of fact
must be so presented as that nothiing shall remain to the
coult but to draw fiom them conclusions of law.
SEC. 496. In an action for the recovery of nmney liWhena only, or specific real property, the jury, in their discretion rendler a general or special verdict. In all other eases a
the court may direct the jury to find a special verdict in
writing, upon all or any of the issues, and in all cases may
instruct themn, if they render a general verdict, to find upon
particular questions of fict, to be stated in writing, and
may direct a written finding thereon. The special verdict
or finding must be filed with the clerk and entered upon
the minutes. When a special finding of facts is inconsistent
with the general verdict, the former controls the latter,
and the court must give judgment accordingly.
SEC. 497. When a verdict is found for the plaintiff,
in an action for time recovery of money, or for the defendrecovery
ant, when a counter claim for the recovery of money is
establishld exceeding tlle amount of tile plaintitl"s claim as
~stablished, the jury must also find tile aiutijunt of the re-
SEC. 498. In an action for the recovery of specific
spcefc' personal property, if the property Ihitnso t been delivered
to the plaintiff, or the defendant, by his answer, claim a
return thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in favor of tile
plaintiff, or if, being in favor of the defendant, they also
find that lie is entitled to a return thereof, imust find the
value of the property, and if so instructed, the value of
specific portions thereof, and may, at the same time, assess
the damages, if any are clained in the complaint or
answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason
of the taking or detention of such property.
SEC. 499. Upon receiving t verdict, all entry must
be made )y the clerk in the minutes of the court, specifying
the time of trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses,
and setting out time verdict at length, and where a special
verdict is found, either tle judgment rendered thereon, or
if the ease be reserved for argument or further consideration,
the order thus reserving it.

SEc. 503. Trial by jury may be waived by tile
several parties to an issue of fact in actions arising on
contract, or for the recovery of specific real or personal
property, with or without damages; and with the assent of
the court, in other actions, in manner following:
1. By failing to appear at the trial;
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed
with the clerk;
3. By oral consent, in open court, entered in the
minutes.
SEC. 504. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the.j court, its decision must be given in writing and filed with the clerk within thirty days after the cause is submitted for decision.
SEC. 505. In giving the decision, the facts found and the conclusions of law must be separately stated 11 1 rdin Judgment upon the decision must be entered accordingly. 
SEC. 506. Findings of ffiet ilay be waived by the several parties to an issue of fact: 1. By filing to appear at the trial;
2. By consent in writing, filed with the clerk;
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the
minutes.
SEC. 507. On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an1 issue of law, he may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two subdivisions of Section foutr hundred anl sixty (460), upon the failure to answer. If judgment be
ftr the defbndant upon an issue of law, and the taking of
an account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to enable
the court to complete the judgment, a reference may be
ordered, as in that section provided.

SEC. 510. A refbree may be ordered upon the agree- zuent of the parties, filed with the cleric or entered ini, the In intites: 1. To try any or all of the issues in an action or proceeding, whether of fitct or of law, and to report a
finding and judgment thereon;
2. To ascertain a fact nee.ary to enable the court
to determine an action or proceeding.
SEc. 511. When the partie (10 not consent, tlie court may, upon1 the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the fbllowing eases: 31
1. When the trial of an issue of fitet requires the
examination of' a long account on either side; in which
ease the refbrees llay be directed to hear and decide the
whole issue, or report upon any sMpecific question of fitet
involved therein;
2. When the taking of a account is neessary for
the information of the court beforejudgment, or for carrying
a judgment or order into ell.,t ;
3. When a question of filet, other than upon the
pleadings, arises upon motion or otherwise ill alimy stage of
the action ; or,
4. When it is nece sarv fbr the infbrmation of the
court in a1 special proceeding.
SEC. 512. A reflerenee nmy Ie orderxl to any person
or persons, not exec.ling three, agreed upon Ily tihe par-
...t ies. If the partie do n ot agree, the court or judge must
appoinit one or more refbrees not exceeding three, who
rcsi(le in the (lirict, in which the action or proceeding is
triable, and against wbom there is no legad objection.
SEC. 513. Either iparty may object to the appointmmaityy
Iniet of any person as rebree ol one 'or more of the fil- ~ *.-'-. 01 01 i iut LI
howilig grounds:
1. A Iw ait of any of' the qualifinations 1)re.eribed
I)v statute to render a person competent as it julr'or;
2. Consanguinity or aflinity within the third degree
of' either party;
:3. Standing in relation of'. guardian ald ward, mastel'
and servant, employer and clerk, or prineipal and agent
to either party, or heing it member of' tlie fiumily of either
party, or it partner in business with either party, or being
seceurity on any bond or obligation foir either party;
4. faving served itsi tj uror or being t witness on
any trial between the saune parties f'or the same cause of avtiomi,
Or being then a witness in the eause;
5. Pecuniary interest on the part of' such person in
the event of' tile action, or in the main question involved
in the action;
6. Having lormetd or expressefl an unqualified opinion
or belief as to the merits of' the actiou;
7. The existence of' a state of' mind in such pe'son
evileilg ellii against or bias to either party.
SEC. 514. The objections taken to the appointment
of any per'on itsre f''ee must be heard n(d disposed of by
the court. Affidavits may be read and any person exrnimned
ms a witiess is to such objections.
SEC. 515. The referees must ,nlort their findings in pRoerrte writing to the court within twenty days after the testi- twe,,mony is closed, and the facts found and conclusions of law
must be separately stated therein.
SEC. 516, file finding of the referee upon the whole issue, must stand as the finding of the court; and upon filing the finding with the clerk of the court, judgment
may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the tetin
had been tried by the court.
SEC. 517. The finding of the referee may b excepted
to, and reviewed in liie manner as if made by thetc
court. When the recren.e is to repo.'t the fthets, the findings
reported has the ctleet of a special verdict.
SEC. 522. An exception is al objection iipo l a iziatter
of l1w to a decision male either before or after iudg- nient by a court, tribunal, judge, or other judicial officer, in
tw action or proceeding. The exception must be takeni at
the time the decision is made, except ts provided in the the next section.
SEC. 523. The ver(lict of the jury, the final decision in in action or proceeding, an interlocutorv order or (I- cision, finally determining the rights of the parties, or sonie
of them; an order or decision from which an ap)eal may
be taken; an order sustaining or overruling a (lemurrer,
allowing or refusing to allow ai amendment to a ])leading,
striking out a pleadt(ing or a portion thereof, refusing a contillnce;
an order made upon ar-partc application, and ant
order or decision made in the absenve of a party, are deemed
to have been excepted to.
SEC. 521. No particular form of exception is re- qired, hut when the exception is to the verdict or decision ',,,, upon the ground of' the insufficiency of' tile evidence to
.justif " it, tile objection imust speeify the larti(t'lars in
which such evidence is alleged to be insuifihient. The objection
uist )e stated with so much of' the evidence or
(Ither matter as is necessary to explain it, and no mre.e.
)ly the sulbstance of, the leJ)tprter's note,s of' the evidence
shall be stated. ])Douments oi file in the action or proceeding
may be copied, or the substance thereof stated or a
reference thereto, sufficient to identify them may be made.
SEc. 525. A bill t.ontaining the exception to any detions.
cision may be presented to the court or judge for settlement
at the time the decision is made, and after having been
settled, shall be signed by the judge and filed with the
clerk. When the (ecision excepted to is made by a tribunal
other than a court, or by a judicial officer, the bill of
exceptions shall be presented to aind settled and signed by
such tribunal or officer.
SEC. 526. When a party desires to have exceptions
taken at a trial settled in a bill of exceptions, he may, within ten days after the entry of judgment, if the action
were tried with a jury, or after receiving notice of the entry
of judgment, if the action were tried without a jury, or
such further time as the court in which the action is pending,
or a judge thereof, may allow, prepare the draft of a
bill, and serve the same, or a copy.thercof, upon the adverse
party. Such draft must contain all the exceptions taken
upon which the party relies. Within ten days after such
2ervice the adverse party may propose amendments thereto,
and zerve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the other party.
The proposed bill and amendments must, within ten days
thereafter, be presented by the party seeking the settlement
of the bill, to the judge who tried or heard the case, upon
five days' votice to the adverse party, or be delivered to the
clerk of the court for the judge. When received by the
clerk he must immediately deliver them to the judge, if lie
be in the district; if he be absent from the district, and
either party desire the papers to be forwarded to the judge,
the clerk must, upon notice in writing of such party, imimediately
forward them by mail or other safe channel; if
not thus forwarded, the clerk must deliver them to the
judge immediately after his return to the district. When
received from the clerk, the judge must designate the time
at which lie will ,ettle 'the bill, and tie clerk must inimediately
notify the parties of such designation. At the time
designated, the judge must settle the bill. If the action
was tried b'ffore a referee, the proposed bill, with the
amendments, if any, must be presented to such referee for
settlement within ton days after service of the amendments,
upon notice of five days to the adverse party, and thereupon
the referee shall settle the bill. If no amendments
are served, or if served are allowed, the proposed bill may
be presented, with the amendments, if any, to the judge or
referee, for settlement, without notice to the adverse party.
It is the duty of the judge or referee, in settling the bill,
to strike out of it all redundant and useless matter, so that
the exceptions may be presented as briefly as possible.
When settled, the bill must be signed by the judge or
referee, with his certificate to the effect that the same is
allowed, and shall then be filed with the clerk.
SEC. 527. Exceptions to any decision made after judgment may be presented to the judge at the time of Judgment, such decision, and be settled or noted, as provided in Section
525, and a bill thereof may be presented and settled
afterwards, as'provided in Section 526, and within like
periods after the entry of the order, upon appeal from
which such decision is reviewable.
SEC. 528. If the judge in any case refuse to allow an exception in accordance with the facts, the party desiring bill settled may appl7, by petition, to the supreme court to prove the same. T'he application may be niade in the mode and manner, and under such regulhtions as that
court may prescribe; and the bill, when pi-oven, must be
certified by a justice as correct, and filed with the clerk of
the court in which the action was tried, and when so filed,
it has the same force and effect as if settled by the judge
who tried the cause.
SEC. 529. When the decision excepted to Was made by any judicial officer other than a judge, the bill of cx- ceptions shall be presented to such judicial officer, and be settled and signed by him, in the same manner as it is required
to be presented to, settled and signed by a court or
judge. A judge or judicial officer may settle and sign a
bill of exceptions afer, as well as before he ceases to be
such judge or judicial oilcer. If such judge or judicial
omffoicveerd bfreofomr eo ftfhicee , bbielcl oomfe se xdciespqtuioanlisf ieids, sise ttalbesde, ndti efsr,o mis trhee- Territory, or refuses to settle the bill of exceptions, or if no mode is provided by law for the settlement of the same,
it shall be settled and certified in such manner as the
supreme court may, by its orders or fules, direct. Judges,
judicial officers, and the supreme court shall respectively
possess the same power in settling and certifying statements,
as is by this section conferred upon them in settling
and certifying bills of exceptions.

SEC. 533. A new trial is a re-examination of' an
issue of fact in the same court. afte'r a trial and decision by
a jury, or court, or by referees.
SEC. 534. The former verdict or other decision may
be vacated, and a new trial granted on the application of
the part) aggrieved for an) of the following causes
nmateriallv afbtg the substantial rights of such party:
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury,
or adverse party, or any order of the court, or abuse of
discretion by which either party was )reventcd from having
a fair trial;
2. Misconduct of the jury, and whenever any one or
more of the jurors have been induced to assent to any
general or special verdict, or to a finding on any que.stions
submitted to then by the court, by a resort to the deterrination
of chance, such miscon(luct may be proved by
the affidavit of any one of' the jurors;
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against;
4. Newly discovered evidence, material f'o' the party
making the application, which he could not, with reilio-mal)
le diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial;
5. Excessive danmges, appearing to have been given
under the influence of' passion or prejudice;
6. Insufliciecy of the evidence to justify the verdict
or other decision, or that it is against law;
7. Error in law occurring at the trial, and excepted
to by the )arty making the application.
SEC. 535. When the application is made for "t cause
mentioned in the first, second, third and fdurth subdivisions
of the last section, it must be made upon affidavit; for any
other cause it may be made, at the option of the moving
party, either upon the minutes of the court, or a bill of'
exceptions, or at statement of' the case prepared as hereinafter
provided.
SEC. 536. The party intending to move for a new
trial, must, within tel days after the verdict of' the jury,
if' the action were tried by a jury, or after notice of' the
decision of the court or referee, if the action were tried
without a jury, file with the clerk, and serve upon the adverse
party a notice of his intention, designating the
grounds upon which the motion will be made, and whether
the same will be made upon affidavits, or the minutes
of the court, or it bill of exceptions, or a statement of
the ease:
1. If the motion is to be made upon affidavits, the
moving party, must, within ten days after serving tie
notice, or such further time as the court in which the action
is pending, or a judge thereof, may allow, file such affidavit
with the clerk, and serve a copy upon the adverse party,
who shall have ten days to file counter affidavits, a copy
of which must be served upon the moving party;
2. If the motion is to be made upon a bill of exceptions,
and no bill has already been settled as hercinbefbre
provided, the moving party shall have the same time
after serving of the notice, to prepare and obtain a settlemeat
of a bill of exceptions, as is provided after the entry
of judgment, or after receiving notice of such entry, as
provided by Section 526, and the bill shall be prepared
and settled in a similar manner. If a bill of exceptions
has been already settled and filed, when the notice of maotion
is given, such bill shall be used on the motion;
3. If the motion is to be made oil a statement of the
case, the moving party must, within ten days after service
of the notice, or such further time as the court in which
the action is pending, or the judge thereof, may allow,
prepare a draft of the statement, and serve the &lime, or a
copy thereof, upon the adverse party. If such proposed
statement be not agreel to by the adverse party, lie must,
within tel days thereafter, prepare amendments thereto,
and serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the moving
party. If the amendments be'adopted, the statement shball
be amended accordingly, and then presented o the judge
who tried or heard the cause for settlement, or be delivered
to the clerk of the court for the judge. If not adopted,
the proposed statements and amendmenats shall, within ten
days thereafter, be presented by the moving party' to the
judge, upon five days' notice to the adverse p.arty, or delivered
to the clerk of the court for the judge; and thereupon,
the same proceedings for the settlement of the
statement shall be taken by the parties, and the clerk and
judge, as are required for the settlement of bills of exceptions
by Section 526. If the action was heard by a
reibree, the same proceedings shall be had for the settlement
of the statement by him, as are required by that section for the settlement of bills of exception by a referee.
If no amendments are served within the time designated,
or if served, are allowed, the proposed statement and
amendments, if any, may be presented to the judge or
referee, for settlement, without notice to the adverse party.
When the notice of motion designates, as the ground of'
the motion, the insufficiency of the evidence to justify the
verdict, or other decision, the statement shall spccify the
particulars in which such evidence is alleged to be insufflicient.
When the notice designates as the ground of the
motion, errors in law occurring at the trial, and excepted
to by the moving party, the statement shall specify the
particular errors upon which the part), will rely. If no
such specifications be made, the statement shall be disregarded
on the hering of the motion. It is the duty of
the judge, or referee, in settling the statement, to strike
out of it ill redundant and useless matter, and to make the
statement truly represent the case, notwithstanding the
assent of tle parties to such redundant or useless matter,
or to any inaccurate statement. When settled, the statement
shall be signed by the judge or referee with his
certificate to the cffct that the same is allowed, and shall
then be filed with the clerk;
4. When the motion is made upon the minutes of the
court, and the ground of the motion is the insufficiency of
the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, the
notice of motion must specify the particulmrs in which the
evidence is alleged to be insufficient; and, if the ground of
the motion be errors in law occurring at the trial and excepted
to by the moving party, the notice must specify the
particular errors upon which the party will rely. If the
notice do not contain the specifications here indicated, when
the motion is made on the minutes of the court, the motion
must be denied.
SEC. 537. The application for a new trial shall be
beard at the earlist practicable period after notice of the
motion, if the motion is to be heard upon the minutes of
the court, and in other cases, after the affidavits, bill of exceptions,
or statement, as the case may be, are filed, and
may be brought to a hearing upon motion of either party.
On such hearing reference may be had in all cases to the
pleadins and orders of the court on file, and when the
motion is made on the minutes, reference may also be had
to any depositions, documentary evidence, and phonographic
xeport of the testimony on file.
SEC. 638. The judgment roll and the affidavits, or bill of exceptions, or statement, is the case may be, used on record the hearing, with a copy of the order made, shall constitute used the record to be used on appeal from the order granting'or
refusing a new trial, unless the motion be made on the
minutes of the court, and in that case the Judgment roll
and a statement to be subsequently prepared, with a cop,
of the order, shall constitute the record on appeal. Suel
subsequent statement shall be proposed by the party appeal- Sub,ing, or intending to appeal, within ten days after the entry statement.
of the order, or such further time as the court in which the
action is pending, or a judge thereof, may allow, and the
same, or a topy thereof, he served upon the adverse party,
who shall have tell days thereafter to prepare amendments
thereto, and serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the
party alpealing or intending to appeal; and thereafter proceedings
shall be bad, and within like periods, fbr the settlement
of the statement, as provided by Section 536, but the
statement shall only contain the grounds argued before the
court for a new trial, and so much of the evidence or other
nmtters as may be necessary to explain them; and it shall
be the duty of the judge to exclude all other evidence or
matter friom the statement.
SEC. 539. The verdict of a jury my also be vacated, and a new trial granted by the court, in which the action is pending, on its own motion, without the application of
cither of the parties, when there has been such a plain disregard
by the jury of the instructions of the court, or the
evidence in the case, as to satisfy the court that the verdict
was rendered under a misapprehension of such instruc- tions, or under the influence of passion or prejudice. The revewed.
order of the court may be rcviewed on appeal in the same
manner as orders made on motions for a new trial, and a
statement to be used on such appeal may be prepared in
the same manner as statements after a motion is heard upon
the minutes of the court as provided in Section 538.
SEC. 540. When the action is tried by a district judge, out of the county of his residence, the motion for a new trial may, upon the consent of the parties, be brought
to a hearing betore such judge at chambers, or in open
court in any other county in the Territory.
SEC. 545. enWterheedn btyri atlh eb yc ljeurrky, inh asc obnefeonr mhiatyd , tjou dthge-
verdict, within twenty-ftour hours after the rendition of the verdict, anle.S the court order tie (umse to be roiserved for
ajrruminCnt (i1" Further consideration or grant a tay of pro-
'eemings.
Sec. 516. When the tese is reserved for argument
or fuirther consideration, as mentioned in the last section,
-. , ~ * .+ , , + f
it may be brought by either )arty before the court f0r
a'gument.
SEC. 547. If' a counter elaim estal)lished at the trial
exceCed the plaintiff's demand, judgment for the delendant
mst be given fin' the excess; or if it appear that the deftndant
is entitled to any other affirmative relief' jjdgment
must 1)e given accordingly.
SEC. 548. In i1n1 atiomn to recover the possession of
persoal propertY, julgnent fbr the plaintifi may be flo.
the possession, Or tfle value thereof, in case a delivery (an- not be had, Id damages fbr tliq detention. If the
property has Ien delivered to the plaintiff, and tile defindatt
clanims a return thereof, judgment fior tn'( d efdillit
may be for a retumrn of the Irol)erty, or the value thereoft,
in case I return c1not he ha)l, and damages fbor taking and
withhohling the same. In an action m a ('ontract or olligaltion
in writing fbr the dircet payment of nioney, iade
payable in a specified kind of' money or currency, judgmient
11ir the plaintiff, whether it Ie by defiilt or after' verdiet,
may fbllow the contract or obligation,and be made
payalble in the kind of money or currency specified therein;
and in all actions fbi' the recovery of money, if' the plaintilI'
allege in his complaint that the same was nmidei'stood and
ar'eed by the respectiv'e parties to Ile payable in a specified
kind of' ioney or currency, and this liuct is admitted by
tie defauilt of the defiendant or established by evidence, the
judgment fbi' the plaintill' must be made payal)e in the
kind of money or cuiiirency so allegel iii the complaint;
and in an attion against amy person for the recovery of
11101ey ret'ived 1by such person ill it fiduciary ealaity, 01
to tihe use of another, judgicnt for the plaintiff must be
muade payable in the kind of money or currency so received
by suich person.
SEC. 549. The cleric must keep, with the records of Judgment the court, a book to be called the judgment book, in which judgments muust be entered.
SEC. 550. If a party (lie after it verdict or decision upon any issue of filet, ind before judgment, the court may nevertheless render judgment thereon. Such judg- meint is not a lien on the real property of' the de&ised party, but is payable in the course of' adninistration on his
estate.
SEC. 551. Immediatelv after entering the ,judgment the clerk must attach together and file the following pll)e.'s, which constitute the judIgment roll:
1. In case the complaint be not answered byi any
defendat, the sunuimiois, with the affidavit, or proofo' f service,
iaud the comlaint, with it nenioraiduni endorsed
thereon that the (lefatilt of' the de'endant in not answering
was entered, a, I a copv of' the judgmllent;
2. in all otler' elses, the pleadings, a copy of' the
verdict of' the jury, or finding of the court or r'eree, all
hills of exception taken and filed, and at copy of any order
nalde on (lelurrer, or relatilng to a1 change of' parties, and
a copy of' the ,judgment. Itf' there tire two or more defidants
in the action, aind any one of' theni has allowed
•judgment to pas against hii' by dethult, the summons,
with lroof of its, service u)oni such defendant, nust also
be ad(lded to the other papers ientioned in this subdi-
SEC. 552. Immediately after filing the judgment roll the clerk must make ti l'Oler entries of the judg- nient, un(ler appropriate heads, in the docket kept by him, and f'roln the time the judgment is docketed it beconies a
lien upon all the real property of' the judgmnent debtor not
exemnit fron execlltion in tIe district, owned by" hlli at
the rendition If the judgment, in his own right. 'ile
lien shill (ontinue for five years, unle6s the 'judgment be
previously saitisfied, oi- unless the enforcenient of' the judg-
Iment he staved on" appeal by the execution of a sufficient
undertaking a; provided ill this Code, in which case the
lien of' the judgmnent ceases.
SEC. 553. "l'e docket llieiiolie(l 111 the last section is a hook which tihe clerlk keCps in hi.s office witi icIge divided into colunms an d lhe'a 1 l as follows: IlIdg (lel)ti's; judgillonit (q'clitorIs; juldnient; tilme ft elml'"
when entered in judgment book; appqals; when taken;
judgment of appellate court; satisfhetion of judgment;
when entered. If judgment be for the recovery of money
or (lamages, the amount must be stated in the docket under
the head of judgment; if the judgment be for any other
relief, a memorandum of the general character of the
relief granted must be stated. Tic names of the defendants
must be entered in the docket in alphabetical order.
SEC. 554. The docket kept by the clerk is open at
all times during office hours for the inspection of the pubspection
. h1 t e t I' th
lie without charge; tie clerk must arrange tie several
dockets kept by him in such a manner as to facilitate their
inspection.
SEC. 555. A transcript of the original docket, certifcioeudn
fleidlb tebcylr mtiye clerk, may be fuilee d with tOhie recorder of iny
county, and fron the time of the filing the judgment becau..
comes a lien upon all the real property of the judgnient
debtor not exempt from execution in such county, owned
by him at the time, or which he may afterwards, and before
the lien expires, acquire. The lien continues for live years,
unless the judgment be previously satisfied.
SEC. 556. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered
in the clerk's docket u pon alln execution returned satisfied,
or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the
clerk, niade in the manner of an acknowledgment of a con -
veyance of real property, by the judgment creditor, orby
his indorsement on the face, or on the niargin of the
record of the judgment, or by the attorney, unless a revocation
of his authority is filed. Whenever a judgment is
satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon an execution, the
party or attorney nmust give such acknowledgment or make
such indorsement, and up1on motion, tile court may compel
it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to be made without
it.
TITLE IX.
OF TIlE EXECUTION OF THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
CIIAI'rER I.
The Execution.
givenS EmCa. y5, 60. anTyh et impea rtwy ithiiii n wfhivoes ey efahrvso ra fjteurd gthmee ennt triys 1LIfTlIhC '~ 1 .1time thereof, have a writ of execution issued fbr its enforce- ment.
SEC. 561. The writ of execution must be issued in the name of the people of the Territory of Utah; sealed with the seal of the court, and subscribed by the clerk, an]d be directed to the United States marshal, or to the sheriff of the county in which the writ is to be executed,
and it must intelligibly ,rcfer to the judgment, stating the
court, the district where the judgment roll is filed, the name
of the parties, the judgment, and if it be for money the
amount thereof, an(l the amomnt actually djue thereon, and
if made lpayable in a specified kind of money or currency
as provided in Section 648; the execution must also state
the kind of money or currency in which the judgment is
lpayable, and must require substantially as follows:
1. If it be against the property of the judgment
debtor it must require the officer to Satisfy the judgment,
with interest, out of the personal property of such debtor;
and if w:ifficient personal property cannot be found, then
out of his rp-al property; or if the judgment be a lien upon
ral property, then out of the real property belonging to
him on the day when the judgment was docketed, or at
any time thereafter; or if the execution be issued to a
county in a judicial district other than the one in which
the iudgment was recovered, on the day when the transcript
of the dfocket was filed in the office of the recorder of suck
county, stating, clch day, or any time thereafter;
2. If it be against real or personal property in the
hands of the personal representatives, heirs, devisces,
legatees, tenants, or trustees, it must require the officer to
satisfy the judgment with interest out of such property;
3. If it be against the person of the judgment
debtor, it must require the officer to arrest such debtor, and
commit him to the jail of the county until lie pay the
judgm4.e nt Iwf' itiht bien tiesrseusetd oorn hae discharged according to law ; judgment made payable in a
specified kind of moncy or cu'rency as provided in Section
548, it must also require the officer to satisfy the same in
the kind of money or currency, in which said judgment is
made payable, and the officer must refuse )ayment in any
other kind of money or currency; and in case of levy and
sale of the property of the.judgment debtor lie must refuse
i)ayment from any purchaser at such sale in any other
kind of' money or currency than that specified in the execution.
The officer collecting money or currency in the
manner required by this Chapter must pay to the laintitt'
or party entitled to recover the same the same kind of'
nioney or currency received by him, and in case of' neglect
or refusal so to do lie shall be" liable on his official bond to
the judgment creditor in three times the amount of money
so collected;
5. If it be fbr the delivery of' the )oss-xssion of real
or personal lrolwrty, it must re(iuire the officer to deliver
the possession of' the same, deseriling it, to the party entitled
thereto, and may at the same time require the officer
to satisfy any costs, damages, rents, or profits, recovered
by the smlme j'ud ment out of the personal property of the
perso ag-ainst whomn it was rendered, and the valu'e of' the
pro)erty for which the judgment was rendered to be
specified therein if' a delivery thereof tmnot le had, and
if sufficient personal property cannot be fbund, then out
of the real property, as proviiled in the first subdivision of
this section.
SEC. 562. The execution may be made returnable at
any time not less than ten, nor more than sixty days after
its receipt by the officer, to the clerk with whohn the iudlment
roll is filed. When the execution is returne(l the
clerk must attach it to the judgment roll. If' any real
estate )e levied upon, the clerk must record the execution
and the return thereto at large, and certify tlv same under
his hand as true copies, in a bo)k to le cilled the "execution
book," which book must be indexed with the names
of' the plaintitM and defendants in execution, alphabetically
arranged, and kept open at all times during office hours for
the inspt iton of the public without charge. It is evidence
of the contents of the originals whenever they or any part
thereof, may be destroyed, mutilated or lost.
SEC. 563. When the judgment is for money, or Judg,, tie possession of real or personal property, the same may - be enforced by a wvrit of execution; and if the judgment f,,direct that tle dethndant be arrested, the execution may
issue against tile person of tile judgment debtor, after the
return of an execution against his property unsatisfied in
whole or in part. When the judgment requires the sale of
propely, tile same nmy be eniorced by a writ reciting such
judgment, or the material parts thereof, and directing the
)roper officer to execute the judgment, by making the sale
and !ipplying the proceeds in conformity therewith. When
tile jdginent requires tile performalce of any other act
than as above designated, a certified copy of the judgment
Inay be served up(oni the party against vliom the same is
rendered, or upon tie person or officer required thereby or
b , law to obey the same, and obedience thereto may be enlbrced
by the court.
SEC. 564. In all cases other than for the recovery of money, tie judgment may bd enforced or carried into exe- cution after the hpse of five years from the date of its
entry, by leave of the court, upon motion, or by judgment
ior that purpose, founded upon supplemental pleadings.
SEC. 565. Notwithstanding the death of a party' after tile judgment, execution thereon may be issued, or it be asagainst may be enforced, as follows: 1. In the ease of tie death of the judgment creditor, upon tue application of Iis executor or administrator, or
successor in interest:
2.' In ase of the death of the judgment debtor, if
the judgment be for the recovery of real or personal property
or the -tiforcement of a lien thereon.
SEC. 566. WherC tile execltioll is agninst tile prp- crty of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the United States mnarshal or to the sieriff of fily county il the Territory
where the property may be situated. Where it requires
the delivery of real or personal property, it must be
iRsued to the United States mna'slal, or to the sheriff of the
county where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.
Executions nilay be iSsud at the samie time to ditierent
counties.
SEC. 567. All goods, clttels, moneys, and other
property both real and lersonal, or any interest therein of
the judgment debtor not exempt by law, and all prop)erty e- and rights of property seized and held under attacitne at in
the action, are liable to execution. Shares and interact in
any corporation or company, and debts and credits, and all
other property both real and personal, or any interest in
either real or prsonal property, and all other property not
capable of manual delivery, may be attached on execution
in like manner as on writs of attachment. Gold-dust .rnd
bullion mnvst be returned by the officer as so much money
collected, at its current value, without exposing the same to
sale. Until a levy on personal property, it shall not be
affected by tile execution.
SEc. 568. If the property levied on be claimed by a
d person as his property, the officer iay sunin'o- from
ow tile county six persons qualified as jurors between the
parties to try the validity of the claim. le must also give
notice of the claim and of the time of trial to the )laintiff
who may appear and contest the claim before tile jury.
The jury and the witnesses nmust be sworn by the oliicer,
and if their verdict be in favor of the claimant, the officer
may relinquish the levy, unless the judgment creditor give
hini a sufficient indemnity for proceeding tllereon. Tle
fees of the jury, officer and tile witnesses, nmust be paid by
the claimant iit'h e verdict be against him; otherwise by
the plintiff. Each party must deposit with the officer,
before the trial, the anount of' his fees and the fees of the
jury, and the officer must pay the same, less his own fcs,
to the prevailing )arty.
SEc. 569. All real and 1)ersonal estate belonging to
any married woman, at the time of her inarriage, or to
wlich she subsequently becomes entitled in ]ler own right,
and all the rents, issues and profits thereof, and all compensation
due or owing for her personal services, is exempt
from execution against her husband.
SEC. 570. The following prolperty is exempt from
execution, except as herein otherwise specially )rovide:
1. Chairs, tables, desks and books, to ti1e value of
two hndred dollars, belonging to the judgment debtor;
2. Necessary houselold, table and kitchlen furniture,
belonging to the judgment debtor, to the value of tlree
hundred dollars; also one sewing machine, liangin"
pictures, oil paintings and drawings, drawn or painted by
any nember of the family, and portraits and their necessary
friames, provisions, actually provided for individual or
falnily use, sufficient for three months; two cows with
their sucking calves, and two hogs and all sucking pigs;
3. The farming utensils or implements of husbandry
of a farmer not exceeding in value the sum of three hun- dred dollars; also two oxen, or two horses, or two mules,
and their harness, one cart or wagon, and food for such
oxen, liorse, cows or mules for sixty days; also, all seed
grain, or vegetables actually provided, reserved, or on hand
for the purpose of planting or sowing at any time within
the ensuing six months, not exceeding in value the sum of
two hundred dollars;
4. The tools, tool-chest and implements of a mechanic
or artisan, necessary to carry on his trade, not exceeding in value the sum of five hundred dollars; the notarial seal and
records of a notary public; the instruments and chests of a
surgeon, physician, surveyor, and dentist, necessary to the
exercise of their professions, with their scientific and professional
libraries, and the law professional libraries and
office fiurniture of attorneys, counselors and judges, and the
libraries of ministers of the gospel;
5. The cabin or dwelling of a miner not exceeding in value the sum of five hundred dollars; also his sluices,
pipes, hose, windlass, derrick, cars. pumps, and tools not
exceeding in value two hundred dollars;
6. Two oxen, two horses or two mules, and their harness; and a cart or wagon, one dray or truck, by the
use of which a cartlnnn, drayinam, truckiman, huckster,
peddler, hacknan, teamster, or other laborer habitually
earns his living; and one horse with vehicle and harness,
or other equipmenlt, used by a physician, surgeon or miinister
of the gospel, in making his professional visits, with
hay and grain for said horse, sufficient for three nionths;
7. One-half of the earnings of the judgment debtor for his personal services, rendered at any time within sixty
days next )receding the levy of execution or levy of attachmnent,
when it appears by the debtor's affidavit or otherwise,
that such earnings are necessary for the use of his
ihmily, residing in this Territory, supported wholly or in
part by his labors;
8. All moneys, benefits, privileges, or immunities a cruing, or in any manner growing out of any life insurance
ol the life of the debtor, if the annual preniinis paild do
not exceed five hundred dollars;
9. All aris, ammunition, uniforms and accoutre- ntents, required by law to be kept, by any person;
10. All court houses, jails, public offices and build- ilgs, school houses, houses of public worship, lots, grounds
andil personal property appertaining thereto, the fixtures,
furniture, books, papers and appurtenances belonging and
pertaining to the court house, jail and public offices belonging
to any county in this Territory, or fbr the use of schoo s
or h3uses of public worship, and all cemeteries, public
squares, parks and places, puhlic buildings, town halls,
public markets, buildings for the use of the firb departments
and military organizations, and thc lots and grounds
thereto belonging 'and appertaining, owned or held by tiny
town or incorporated city, or dedicated by surh town or city
to health, ornament, or public use, or for the use of any fire
or military company, now existing, or which may be under
the laws of this Territory hereafter organized;
11. If the debtor be the head of a fiunily, there slall
be a further exemption of a homestead, to be selceted by the
debtor, consisting of lands, together with tie appurtenances
and improvements thereon, not exceeding in value the sum of
one thousand dollars, for the judgment debtor, and the
further sum of five hundred dollars fbr his wife and two
hundred and fifty dollars for each other member of the
fimily. If the homestea d selected by the dbtor is of a
greater value than is exempted under this section, it shall
e optionawith the judkment debtor to permit the same to
be partitioned or to be sold, and to receive in money the
value of the homestead as provided in this section. If the
debtor so elect, the homestead may be sold as other lands
are sold on execution, and, after paying the debtor the value
of the homestead, the balance of the money shall be applied
upon tie judgment; Provided, That the homestead
slall not be sold if the officer do not receive a bid for a
greater amount than the value of the homestead exempted
in this section. If sold on the judgment, the money paid
the debtor for the homestead shall be exempt from that or
any other execution. If fhie officer having the execution,
and the judgment debtor, cannot agree as to the value of
the homestead, or the partition thereof, or as to the quantity
and value of any of the articles of personal property in
this section exempted, the officer shall select one person and
the debtor another person, both being householders of the
vicinity, to whom the officer slall administer an oath, to
tirly and justly appraise and set apart the exempt property
of the judgment debtor, concerning which there is a
disagreement between him and the officer. If the disagreeient
relates to the value of the homestead, or to the partition
thereof, the appraisers shall report to the officer their
appraisal of the property selected for the homestead. If
the debtor elect to have the property partitioned, it shall be
the duty of the appraisers to set apart such a homestead as
tile judgment debtor shall elect and be entitled to, under
tile provisions of this section. In case of the disagreement
of tlt appraisers, they shall choose a third person, who
shall also be sworn, and the decision of any two of said appraisers,
when made, shall be final. The property not set
apart as a homestead shall be subject to sale, under execution,
the proceeds to be applied on the judgment. No article, however, or species of property mentioned in this section is exempt from execution issued upon a judgment
recovered for its purchase price, or any portion thereof, or
upon a judgment or foreclosure of a mortgage or a mechanics'
or laborers lien thereon, or exempt from' sale for taxes.
SEC. 571. The officer mast execute the writ against the property of the judgment debtor, by levying cn a sufficient amount of' prop)erty, if there be sufficient; collecting
or selling the tiings in action, and selling the other
property, and paying to the plaintiff, or his attorney, so
much of the proceeds as Will satisf, the judgment; any
excess in the proceeds over the judgment and accruing
costs, must be returned to the judgment debtor, unless
otherwise directed by the judgment or order of the court.
When there is more operty of the judgment debtor than
is sufficient to satidfy the judgment and accraing costs
Nivt hin view of the officer, he must levy only on such
part of the property Ls the judgmn.it debtor may indicate,
if the property indkatcd be amiply sufficient to satisft' the
judgment and costs.
SEC. 572. Before the sale of the property on exeeti- tion, notice thereof must be given as follows: 1. In case of perishable property, by posting written
notice of the time and place of sale in three public places
of the precinct, or city, where the sale is to take place, for
sch a time as may be reasonable, considering the character
anid condition of the property;
2. In case of other personal property, by posting a
similar notice in three public placqs of the precinct, or city
where the sale is to take place, for not less than five, nor
more than ten days;
3. In case of real property, by posting a similar
notice, particularly dcclibing the property, fbr twenty
lays, in three public places of the preclict, or city, where
the proerty is situated, and also wihere the property is to
be so1(l, and publishing a copy thereof once a week fbr the
same period in some newspaper pul)lishcd in tile county, if
there be one;
to be 4s.o ldW ish emna dthe ep jauydagbmlee nint au nsdpeerc iwfiehdi ch this property is kind of money or
currency, tra several notices required by this section must
state the kind of money or currency in which bids may be
made at such sale, which must be the same as that specified
in the judgment.
SEc. 573. Ali officer selling without the notice prenotice,
scribed by the last section, forfeits five hundred dollars to
attached the aggrieved party, in addition to his actual damages;
and a person willfully taking down or defacing the notice
posted, if done before the sale or the satisfaction of the
judgment (if the judgment be satisfied before sale), forfeits
five hundred dollars.
SEC. 574. If, at the time appointed for the sale of
any real or personal property on execution, the officer shall
deem it expedient, and for the interest of all persons concerned,
to postpone the sale for want of purchasers or
other sufficient cause, he may postpone the same from time
to time until the same shall be completed; and in every
such case lie shall make public declaration thereof at the
time and place previously appointed for the sale, and if
such postponement be for a longer time than twenty-.
four hours, notice thereof shall be given in the same manner
as the original notice of such sale is required to be
given.
SEc. 575. When an officer shall have begun to seive
an execution, and shall die, or be incapable of completing
the service and return thereof, the same may be completed
y)a) ny other officer who might by law have executed the
same if originally delivered to him; and if the first officer
shall not have made a certificate of his doings, the second
officer shall certify whatever he shall find to have been
done by the first, and shall add thereto a certificate of his
own doings in completing the service.
SEC. 576. When an officer shall have begun to serve
jan execution issued out of any court of record, on or be-'
ore tile return day of such execution, he may complete
the service and return thereof after such return day.
SEc. 577. All sales of property under execution
imust be made at auction, to the highest bidder, beween the
hours of nine in the morning and five in the afternoon.
After sufficient property has been sold to satisfy the execu-
tion, no more can be sold. Neither the officer holding the
execution, nor his dcputy can become a purchaser, or be
interested in any purchase at such sale. When the sale is
of personal property, capable of manual delivery, it must
be within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest price; and when the sale is of real property, and consisting of several
known lots or parcels, they must be. sold separately; or
when a portion of such real property is claimed by a third
person, and lie requires it to be sold separately, such portion
must be thus sold. All sales of real property must
be made at the court house of the county in which the
property, or some part thereof, is situated.. The judgment debtor, if present at the sale, may also direct the order in which tile propWerhtiych, ~r~esalel tohr rppe"r sonal, shall be sold, when property consists of several known lots or parcels, or of articles which can be. sold to advantage separately, and
the officer, must follow such directions.
SEC. 578. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by him fbr the property struck off to him at a sale execution, the officer may again sell the property at any time to the highest bidder, and if any loss be occasioned
thereby, the officer may recover the amount of such
loss, with costs, from the bidder so refusing, in any court
of competent jurisdiction.
SEC. 579. When a purchaser refuses to pay, the officer may, in his discretion, thereafter reject any subse- quent bid of such person.
SEC. 580. The two preceding sections must not be construed to make the officer liable for any more than the amount bid by the second or subsequent purchaser, and the amount collected from the purchaser refusing to pay.
Sec. 581. When the purchaser of any personal prop- erty, capable of manual delivery, pays the purchase money, the officer making the sale shall deliver to the purchaser the property, and if desired, execute and deliver to him it certificate of the sale and payment. Such certificate conveys
to the purchaser all the right, title and interest which
the debtor had in and to such property on the day the
execution was levied.
SEC. 582. When the purchaser of any personal prop- erty, not capable of manual delivery, pays the purchase lmivoenre yt,o thteh eo fpfiuerrc hmasaekr inag ctehreti fiscaalete mouf sst aleex eacnudte paaynmde ndtleid- .aliniivv Such certificate conveys to tie purchaser all right, title
and interest which the debtor had in and to such property
on the day the execution or attachment was levied.
SEC. 583. Upon a sale of real property, the par- chaser is substituted to ad acquires all the right, title, in- .,trest and claim of the judgment dlebtor thereto; and when
the estate is less than a leasehold of two years unexpired
term, the sale is absolute. In all other cases, the real propcetican.
elty is subject to iedemption as provided in this Chopter.
The officer must give to the purchaser a certificate of tie
sale, containing:
1. A particular description of the real propert ysold;
2. Tihe price bid for each distinct lot or parce;
3. The whole price paid;
4. When subject to redemption, it must be so stated,
and when the judgment, under which the sale ha been
made payable in a specified kind of money or currency, the
certificate must also state the kind of money or currency
in which such redemption may be made, which must be
the same as that specified in the judgment. A duplicate of
such certificate nmst be filed by the officer in the office of
the recorder of the county.
SEC. 584. Property sold subject to rcdemption, as
provided mi the last section, or tny part sold separately,
may be redeemed in the manner hereinafter provided by
the following persons or their succssors in interest:
1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest,
in the whole or any part of the property;
2. A crcxlitor having a len by judgment or niortgage
on the property sold, or on some slare or part thereof,
subsequent to that ojil which the property was sold. The
persons mentionled in the second subdivision of this section
are in this Chapter termned redemlptioners.
SEC. 585. The judgment debtor, or a rcdepptioner,
may redeem the prol;erty from the purchaser within six months after the sale, on paying the purchaser the anmount
of his purchase, (in the kind of nmoney or currency specified
in the judgment, if any be specified,) with six per cent.
thereon in addition, togetlher with the amount of any
assea sment, or taxes, which the purchaser may have paid
thereon after the purchase, and interest on such amnount;
and if the purchaser be also at creditor, having a lien prior
to that of a rcdienptioner, othelr thanl the judgment under
which the purchase was made, the amount of such lien,
wIvittSh EinCte.r est8.,6. If' the property be so redeemed by I redebtor
demptioner, another redeniptioner may, within sixty da1's
after the last redemption, and within six muonth.. after t2e
Sale, again redeem it front the last redeniptioner, on paying
the sui 1aid on such last redemption, with three per cent.
thereon in addition and the ainount of any assessment, or
tax, which the last redenptioner inay have paid thereon
after the redemption by him, with interest on such amount,
and in addition, the amount of any liens, held by said last
redempfioner prior to his own, with interest; but the judgment,
under which the property was sold, need not be so
paid as a lien. The property may be again, Piid as often
as a "redemptioner is so disposed, redeemed from any
previous redemptioner within sixty days after the last redemrption,
and within six months after the sale, on paying
the sun paid on the last previous redemption with three
per cent. theron in addition, and the amount of any assessments,
or taxes, which the last previous redemptioner paid
after the redemption by' him, with interest thereon, and
the amount of any liens other than the judgment under
which the property was sold, held by the last redemptioner
previous to his own, with interest. Written notice of re- demption must be given to the officer, and a duplicate filed with the recorder of the county; and if any taxes or assessmnts
are paid by the redemptioner, or if he has, or acquires
any lien, other than that upon which the redemption was
made, notike thereof must in like manner be given to the
officer, and filed with the recorder; and if suai notice be
not filed, the property may be redeemed without paying
such tax, assessment, or lien. If no redemption be made
within six months after the sale, the purchaser, or his assignee, is entitled to a conveyance; or if so redeemed,
whenever sixty days have elaps&l, and no other redemption
has been made, and notice thereof given, the time for redemption
by a redemptioner has expired, and the last redemptioner,
or his assignee, is entitled to deed from the
officer, at the expiration of six months after the sale; but
in all cases the judgment debtor shall have the entire
period of six months from the date of the sale to redeem
the property. If the judgment debtor redeem, lie must
make the same payment as are required to effect a redemption
by a redemptioner. If the debtor redeem, the efftet
of the sale is terminated, and lie is restored to his estate.
Upon a redemption by the debtor, the person to whom the
payment is made nmust execute and deliver to him a certificate
of redemption, acknowledged and proved before an
officer, authorized to take acknowledgments of conveyances
of real property. Such certificate must be filed and. recorded
in the office of the recorder of the county in which
the property is situated, and the recorder must note the
record thereof in the margin of the record of the certificate.
of sale.
SEC. 587. The payments mentioned in the last two sections may be made to the purchaser or redemptioner, or
for him to the officer who made the sale. When the judg- ment, under which the sale has been made, is payable in a
speified kind of money, or currency, payments must be
made in the same kind of money or currency, and a tender
of the money is equivalent to payment.
SEc. 588. A redemptioner must produce to the
officer, or person, from whom lie seeks to redeem, and serve
with his notice to the officer:
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment under
which lie claims the right to redeem, certified by the clerk
of the court or recorder of the county where the judgment
is docketed or filed; or if he redeem upon a mortgage, or
other lien, a note of the record thereof certified by the recorder;
2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish
his claim, verified by the affidavit of himself, or of subscribing
witnesses thereto; and,
3. Aln affidavit by himself, or his agent, showing the
amount then actually due on the lien.
SEC. 589. Until the expiration of the time allowed
for redemptio, the court may restrain the conmission of
cortforeepintlecu
Waste oil the property, by order granted with or without
notice, on the applic tion of' the purchaser, or the judgment
creditor. But it is not waste for the person in poscconnasitd
session of the proi perty at the time of sale, or entitled to
posession afterwards, during the periol allowed for redemlition,
to continue to use it in the satme manner in
which it was previously used; or to use it in the ordinary
course of husbandry; or to make the necessary repairs of
buildings thereon; or to use wood or timber on the property
therefor; or for the repair of fences; or for fuel in
hs family while he occupies the property.
SEC. 590. Tihe purchaser from tile time of sale until
a redemption, and a redemptioner from the time of his redlemption
until another redemption, is entitled to receive
from the tenant in possession, the rents of the property
sold or the value of the use and occupation thereof. But
when any rents or profits have been received by the judgment
creditor or purchaser, or his or their assigns, from the
property thus sold preceding such redemption, the amounts
of such rents and profits shall be a credit upon the redemption
money to be paid, and if the redemptioner or
judgment debtor, befbre the exliration of the time allowed
for such redemption, demands i'n writing of such purchaser
or creditor, or his assigns, a written and verified statement
of the amounts of such rents and profits thus revived, the
period for redemption is extended five days after such
sworn statement is given by such purchaser or his assigns,
to such redemptioner or debtor. If such purchaser or Iiis
assigns shall, for a period of one month from and after
such demand, fail or refuse to give such statement, such redemptloner
or debtor may, within sixty days after said
denand, bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction,
to compel an accounting and disclosure of such
rents and profits, and until fifteen days from and after the
final determination of such action, the right of redemption
is extended to such redemptioner or debtor.
SEC. 591. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or nis successors in interest, be evicted there- friom in consequence of irregularities in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover the price paid with interest,
fr'om the judgment creditor. If the purchaser of property
at an officer's sale or his successor in interest fail to recover
possession in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings
concerning the sale or because the property sold was not
subject to execution and sale, the court having jurisdiction thereof; must, after notice, and on motion of such party in interest, or his attorney, revive the original judgment
in the name of the petitioner for the amount paid by such
purchaser at the sale, with interest thereon from the time
of payment at the same rate that the original judgment
bore; and the judgment so revived has the samie force and
effect as woul an original judgment of the date of the
revival, and no more.
SEC. 592. When upon an execution against several perons, more than a due proportion of the judgment is satisfied out of the proceeds of the sale of the property of one of them, or one of them pays, without a sale, more
thaihni s proportion, lie may compel contribution from the
others; and when a judgment is against several, and is
ulpon an obligation of one of them, as security, for another,
and the surety pays the amount, or any part thereof, either
by sale of his property or before sale, lie may compel repayment
from the principal. In such ease, the person so
paying, or contributing, is entitled to the benefit of the
judgment, to enforce contribution or repayment, if, within
ten days after his payment, lie file with the clerk of the
court where the judgment was rendered, notice of his payment
and claim to contribution or repayment. Upon a
filinm of such notice, the clerk must make an entry thereof
in the margin of the docket.
SEC. 594. When an execution against property of'
i e judgment debtor, or of any one of sib'enl debtors in
tile saine.judgment issued to a proper officer is returned
Unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the judgment cre;tor, at
afrnoym t ime after such return is miade, is entitled to an order the julge of the (ourt requiring such judgment
debtor to appear, and answer upon oath concerning his
property, beibre such judge, or a referee appohited by liiim,
ait at time aid place specified in the order; but no judgment
debtor must he required to attend before a .judge, or
retbree, out of the judicial district in which lie resides.
SEC. 595. After the issuing of an execution against
projwj)eislt'oety , t, haen sdIa Itiuspthocnt iopnro of by affidavit of' a party, or other- of the court, or the judge thereof;
that iuy judgment debtor has property which lie unjustly
refuss.s to apply towards the satisfhction of the judgment,
such court, or judge, may, by an order, require the judgment
debtor to appear at a specified time and place befibre
such judge, or referee appointed by him, to answer concerning
the slme, and .such )roceedings. may thlereupon be
hal for the appli ttion of the property of the judgment
debtor toward the satisfaction f the ,juldgment, as are pro-
vided upon the return of an excution. Instead of tile
order requiring the attelancl, of the judgment debtor, the
judge may, upon affidavit of the judgment creditor, his
agent or attorney, if' it appear to hini that there is danger
of the debtor absconding, order the United States marslal,
or the sheriff' of' the county, to arrest the debtor, and
bring him before such judge. Upon being brought before
the judge, lie may be o 'dqred to eiter iito an undertaking,
with sufficient surety, tliat lie will attend fi'om time to
time, before the judge or referee, iams ay be directed during
the pendency of' the proceedings, and until the final deterbe
ination thereof; atid will not, in the meantime, dispose of'
ally portion of' his loperty. not exempt from execution.
In default of entoring into such undertaking, lie may be
committed to prison.
SEC. 596. efoArfet er the issuing of an execution against Any prpry an beor iitt s rreett.u rn, any person indebted to the tdheeb judgment debtor, ma) pay to the officer the amount of his the debt, or so much thereof as may be neessary to satisfy tile Ito.
execution, and the officer's receipt is a suffi~icnt discharge
for the amount so paid.
SEC. 597. After the issuing, or return of all execti- Examination tion against property of' the judgment debtodre, bort oorf daenyb tmodertos one of several debtors in the same judgment, and upon of proof by affidavit or otherwise, to the Satisfaction of the Froperty that any person or corporation has property of such
judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding
fifty dollars, the judge may, by an order, require
such person or corporation, or any officer or member thereof,
to appear at a specified time and place, before him, or
a referee appointed by him, and answer concerning the
Salle.
SEc. 598. Witnesses may be required to appear and wito,.. testify before tie jud e, or referee, upon anyl proceeding quircd i.ncler this Chapter in t ie same nmanner as upon the trial of
tin issue.
SEC. 599. The judge, or referee, may or(ler. any Judge prol)erty of the judgment del)tor not exempt from exeel- toor tion, in the hands of such debtor, or any other lperson, or execution.
due to the judgment debtor, to be applie( towards the satisiaction
oi the judgment.
SEC. 600. If' it appears that a1 pcrsol, or corpoation, Proceeiis
alleged to have property of the ildglment debtor, oi to le rpon indlebted to him claims ali interest iii the property, adverse another to him, or denies tie. debt, the court or jidge may an- den,, ly '111o1r der inde to that effect, the judg*ment creditor to institute all action agailst such 1ersonior corporation,
Im' the recovery of such interest or debt; an(1
the court or ljudge may, b y mrder, forbid a transfer, or
other dislosition of such interest, or debt, until an action
(,i l)e commenced a1(1 1)rosecuted to judgment. Such order
may be modified or vacated by the jiudge granting the
si1;10, or the court in which the'aCtioln is brought, iaE aniy
time, upon Sncl ternis .as ilmla 1w just.
SEC. 601. If ' any pcr'soll, part.%, or witnesses, dis- obey a1 order of tile 'eferce, pioperly made in tie ph'o- orders. cee(lings I'rbrc him under this Chapter, lie may be plnisled puntsl by, the court, or judge, ordering the refcrence, for a contC1ml)
t. When tile judgment requires the person against
whom it is rendered to execute and deliver to any other
person, a conveyance of any specifie real property, and the
person against wlhom it is rendered, shall refuse or neglect
to execute and deliver said conveyance for five days after
the service upon him of a certiied copy of such judgmnent,
or if he is absent or concealed, so that service of such certified
copy can not be had, upon proof, satisfictory to the
court, that such service has been made, or that it cannot be
made by reason of such absence or concealment, the person
entitled to the conveyance may obtain from the court an
order that the certified copy of the judgment, together with
the order, be recorded by the recorder of deeds of the
county where the real property is situated, and when recorded,
it slall give to the person entitled to such conveyance
a right to tie possession of the real property described
in the judgment, and to hold the same according to the
terms of the conveyance ordered, in like manner as if it
had been conveyed in pursuance of the jhdgment. The
recording of any judgment as above provided, slall not
prevent the court rendering such judgment from enforcing
the same by any proper procees, according to the course of
proceedings therein.
TITLE X.
ACTIONS IN PAITICULAR CASFS.
CI1AI~rER I.
ACtil8 for Foreclosure of Mortgcags.
SEC. 606. There can be but one action for the reforcosure
covery of any debt, or the enforcement of any right
secured by mortgage upon real estate or personal property,
which action must be in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter. In such action the court may, by its judgment,
direct a sale of the encumbered property, or sc. much
thereof as may be necessary and the application of the
proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costs of the
court and that expenses of the sale, and the amount due to
thb plaintiff; and sales of real estate under judgments of
foreclosure of mortgages and liens are subject to redemption
as in case of sales under execution; and if it appear
from the return of the officer making the sale that the proceeds
are insufficient, and a balance still renmins due, judgment
can then be docketed for such balance against the defendant
or defentiants, personally liable for the debt, and k
becomes a lien on the real estate of such judgment debtor, as
in other cases, on which execution may he issued. No
pe:rson holding a conveyance from or under the mortgagor
of the property mortgaged, or having a lien thereon, which
conveyance or lien does not appear of record in the proper
office) at the time of the commencement of the action, need
be made a party to such action, and the judgment therein
rendered, and the proceedings therein had, are as conclusive
against the party holding such unrecorded conveyance, or
lien as if he had been made a party to the action.
SEC. 607. If there be surplus money remaining after
payment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien, or in- cum)rance, with costs, the court may cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it, and in the meantime may
direct it to be deposited in court.
SEc. 608. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien, or incumbrance is held, is not all due, so soon as sufficient of the )roperty has been sold to pay the amount due, with costs, the sale must cease, and afterwards, as often as more becomes due for princi pal or interest, the court may, on
motion, order more to be sold. But if the property cannot
be sold in portions, without injury to the parties, the
whole may be ordered to be sold in the first instance, and
the entire debt and costs paid, there being a rebate of interest
where such rebate is proper.
CHAPTER II.
A ction for Nuiance, Vaste and Ilrillfn IT 'res)rssh Cm'dabi
Cases, on Real Propcrflq.
SEC. 612. Anytliing which is injurious to health, til
indecent, or- oflbnsive to the senses, or an obstruetion to the
fi'ee use of pro)erty, so as to interfere with the conifort ble
enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisalce, and the subject
of l aetion. Such action may be lrought by any
person whose prolvrty is injuriously zi;li'tcd, or whose personal
enjoyment is lessenel by the nuisance; and by the
judllenit the nuisance may be enjioined (r al)atel, as well
us danages recovered.
SEc. 613. If a guardian, tenant for life or years,
joinlt tenant, or tent in commnon of real property, cornmit
waste thereon, alny person aggrieved by the waste may
Iring al action against him therefor, in which action ther-e
may be *iudgment fbi' treble damages,
SEC. 614. Aitny person whot cuts down, or carries onl;
t)any woo, or underwood, tree or timber, or girdles, or otheretC.,,
wise injures any tree or timber oil the land of another persoi,
or on the street or highway in front of any person's
house, village or city lot, or cultivated grotunls, or oil the
commons or public gron1ds of' illy city or town, or on the
street or highway in front thereof, wit-out. lawful authority,
is liable to the owner of such land, or to such city or town,
ft'r treble the amotint of damages which may be assessed
therefr, in a civil action in any court having !jurisdictioni.
SEC. 615. Nothing in the last section authorizes the
rt(Toverly of' nore than tih just value of' the timber taken
fromi uncultivated wood land fbr the repair of' a pblic
highway o1 bridge upon, the ]fil(], or adjoining it.
Sec. 616. f fa person i'ecover damages for a forcible
y 0o r ilawfiul entry ilI orrl p loIl)r, or' detentionl of ally )uilling
o any cultivated real loperty, iudgment may be entered
for three tii n.s the aolloult at which the actual danmages are
asses.se 1.
SEC. 620. An action may be brought by any person against another who clims an estate or interest in real property, itiverse to him, for the )urpoLi of determining such aidvlse clain.
SEC. 621. If the defendant in such action disclaim in his 'nswer any interest or estate in the property, or stufhr judgment to be taken against hini without answer, the phiitiIr cannot recover costs.
SEC. 622. In an action for the recovery of reld property, where the plaintiff shows a right to recover at the -liine the action was commnence(], but it appears that his right has terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment must be according to the fitet, judgment and the plaintiff mty recover damagei s for withholding the
property.
SEC. 623. When dalnages are claimed for withhold- ing the property recovered, u)on which permanent ina= proveuts have been made by a deflendant, or those under whom lie claims, holding under color of title didversely to
the claiis of' the 1ilaintifl; i-a good thith, the value of such
improvements must be allowed as a set-offl against such
(iluinges.
SEC. 624. The court in which an action is )ending for the recovery of reail property, or for daniages for an i ythereto, judge Or aju e thereof, nii1, oil motion, or t1)01 notice l)v either party, for good cause shown, grout li) orlder allowing to such party tile right to cnter ul)O1 the
property and ntake survey 1111n( measurement thereof; and
of -iy tunnels, siafts or drifts thereon, for the purpose of'
tile acotion, even though entry for such purpose lus to ibe
made through other lands belonging to parties to the
action. 

SEC. 625. The order must describe the plrolpe)r.t, , and U copy thereof must be served oi the owner or occulmnt, and thereupon such party may enter ul)on the property necassary surveyors mi( assistants, an(l may ninake
such survey and measurement; but f Illy unnecessary i-
Jury l)e dlone to the property, he is lia)le therefbr.
Svc. 626. A mortgage of real property shall not be
deemed a conveyance, whatever its terms, so a, to enable the
owner of the mnortgage to recover losSuSion of the real
p)ro)perty without a foreclostlre and sale.
SEC. 627. The court may, )y injunction, en good
cIllse shown, restrain the )arty ill possession from doing
(l 1i3 aiy act to the injury of real prol)erty during the ibrehos-
1rc of" a mortgage thereon, or after a sale on execution,
I)eflore a conveyance.
SEc. 628. When real property has been sol on exbe
ecution, the purchaser thereof, or any peuson vwi,,, may
have succeeded to his interest, nay, after his estate bec,,mes
absolute, recover daltl-res for intry to tile property I)y the
tellant in posession, ater sale ind befolre the plosessilo is
delivered under the conveyance.
SEC. 629. An action for tie recovery of rp-ul propprejnuiced
erty against a person iII io.sessionu cannot ie prejudicd
by any alienation mlade Iy such person, either before or
after the conunemenlt of' the action.
SEC. 630. II actions respecting mining claimls, proof
naist le ad ittel of' tile culstoIs, usages, or regulations
establisied, and ill force at the bar, diggings or Camlp em- bracings(1.h (laill; and such customs, lisaiges, or regulations,
when not in conflict with the laws of this Territory,
or of' the United States, niust govern the decision of' tie
action.
SEC . 635. When several co-tenants hol, and are ill
)OSSesion of' real property, as parceners, joint tenants; or as
tenants ill coli1liIon), ill which one or inore of them have an
estate of inheritance, or for life, or lives, or for years, all
action may be brought by one or more of such persons for
a partitio- thereof, according to the respective rights of tie
persons interested therein, and for a sale of such property,
or a part thereof if it appear that a partition cannot be
made without great preiudice to the owners.
SEc. 636. The interests of all persons ini the lOl)- erty, whether such persons he known or unknown, mast be set forth in the complaint, specifically and partieuhu'ly as fit, as known to the plaintitl; and if' one or more of the lparties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of the
parties, be unknown to the plaintiff or be uncertain, or
contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depenld upon
n 'executory devise, or the remainder be a contingent reiml
iider, so that such parties (unmot be named, that fact
muist be set forth in the complaint.
SEC. 637. No person having a conveyanlcc of' or claiming a lien On the property, or some part of it, need Ihp made a party to the action unless such conveyance or lien appear of' record.
SEC. 638. I mn.nl(liately after filing- - the colip-fillea int in tile district court, the plailntifl must file with the recorder of thei spconodmnnciyn county, or of' the several counties in which the property is situated, either a copy of such complaint or il notice of the
penleney of the action, containing the names of' the parties,
so fhr as known, the object of, the action, and a description
of' the )rol)erty to l)e affected thereby. From the time of'
the fiing it shall be deemed notice to all persons.
SEC. 639. The stimmions must be directed t(; all the Joilit tenants, and tenants illil iie, cnosln mloln, and all personls havinig any interest in, or any liens of record bly lnortgag, judgnent, or otherwise, upon the pro)erty, o1 upon any )articular portion thereof, ,and generally to all personiis fill-
Known who have or claim any interest in the lroplert.
SEc. 640. If a party having at share or iliter.st is unknown, or any one of the kilown parties reside out of the Territory, or cannot be found therein, and such fact is Illade to al)l)ear by affidavit, the summons may be served1
on such absent o unknown part )) publication, as ill other
eases. When publication is made, the sumilinons, as publisied,
must be accompanied by a brief' (description of' the
property wilicl is the subject of' the action.
SEC. 641. The def'ildants who have been persollally Anwer served wvit tie St1tl11ll0tt5, and a certified copy of the comI- leud;1 1 lIa0nt, or who have appeared without such service, list set forth in their answers, fullv atd. particularly, the origin,
tile nature, and the extent of' tilei' respective interests ili
the property, a1nd1 if suel defendants claim it lien on tile
property by mortgage, judgment or otherwise, they must
state the original amounlnt and date of the samle, and the
su1m remaining due thereon, also whether tie saell hals beent
secure(I in any other way or not, and if seenred, the extent
ailidtu iiltre of, s1ich secuity, or they are devilled to iav'e
wnied their rights to sldt lien.
SEC. 612. The rights of' the several parties, pil ill'
I. well Ls (letilidllit, ita y liel litl i i1 ile, tr'i(d ntd((lil e'-
1ihi e| 1l)s),ci ti a1d01Ww1;h i en(i1t asile, of' tile pretiIses is
lt('eSsily, thle tile ulili st be I.4crte1,IiIld blYi'0oo;l to thl 5it
is izit iou of, thle ('I 311.t , Ii floie t ile 1 ?g I il ae 'lt II
imiide, a whliere servti e ot' tle (omlaihiii li bI)ill li1n1i1i
biy pldieatolli, like p'ook6 filt1, ! i'eiqireld of' the right of'
tile abseiit or ink no\n Ii es befoi'e ih,h juItdgmii ent is
redidei'ed; e'xept. t hat wh thereliei'; a ' sever.1' lilik ino\'i
Iesi'5olis ini Iliil iltei'est illt ile property, II eir i'ig lit s 1111i
lo eoi idiercd tlget he' ii the actitin, and not as betweldl
thelimsel'es.
. \rliel\4te.Wvehr froi any ciuse it is ihit ie
OltlliiOll ofP tile ourlt, inilprai~letll o1" hlighly° inclonvenlient
to llake a olliplete pal'tition, ilii the first nlStile, aitIoIg ll
the pities in interest, thlie (ullirt iiiav rst aclrt i iia( de--
terllille the shai'es intle're st respitiv'el. held by the
o'iginal vo-tellailts, and the reuiponi ljl jdge a.11 isellnet
partition oi lie iiliide, as it' si('ll oig'iill l((-telinit weel'e
the palt'et i, aid stile pati in ilitere.t, atid tie oldi iitif's
to tile actioli, i1iil1 |th elflitli 11111), 'i('eo& ill like inilillitl'
to aditldgle anld make partition, eplritel]' of' evell share o1"
pot'ti.ni so) ascet liti l leo(-ll illdo tt1l, ItS hietweeti tliose claiminog
undei' t ileo riilal tellait li\lhto ii t liaie im l I ha'e
beeii So s't apart, ,1i'l l1y ll ow them to remitnill teli ilits itt
teoninlio thereof, 'aS they ItIay dlesi'e.
SEC. 641. If it atllleaih's toi the couit tIh e certifliate
of' the County recoreri'r or cie'k, o' by the swon'll o" v'ripariti
ref- tied ,atelitit, off' ,'aaioy iel',oii ia ll e i'xliiiitd l i"
seal'(lled the ire'cords' that thicre a'e oiltstildllig liens, ir
iiIlliiii' tces of' re('ord 1u11o n itch i'eal piropijer'ty, O' :ill1
pal't, or p1ortion tiihi'eor ;, wihich existe4di 1 'ere (f'i 'cc'o, i'l
-itth e tiie of' the commenemenl(oiliit of the aietioll, and thle
perso'i holding silh li is are not made pa'ties to thlie
atetiol ihe court iust either oi'ler such'h Si'OS ito lie llilide
pIni'tiC- to the ilactloll LIy tIineiitteit0 or siulllmetanil
otiplailit, or' appoint a 'ef'ere to Ls'cetail whietheir or not
suich liets or inrellti'liees have boii paid, or if' not paid,
\vilttt iunilit reililns (Iu thereon) and theiri' order aimioi g
the liens on ineiiliirlanlees severilly held ly suel pel,'sol;
anlitdh e pI'ties to said itetiOll, anid whether the liounlt remliling
due thereon lias been ,ecir'd ill iUly ileilinr; it
Secui'ed, the niatire ailnd exteit of the secu'ity.
SEC. 645. The plilititl iust casIie a niotice to bei
Se'r\ved a reasotllhh,. timte Pr'e\'io(IS to tle (,]I)'y aJale Ie t tile Ir'ef're e appointl, as provided in the li.s\tce ill, OI Il e I( ji)dtp el-ol 11!1Vi llir 1 t 1 ff'4ri Ii f 1 1 )1,Ihr e')Pfi I 1(f is ilot i pifi'tY to the l ctioni, It alppea' let'frf tre "Cf lere at a
ptifited tiue anld place to m'ake' pr'f,', by his o)N alidavit,
or otherWise, of' the amnount itleo'r to beoie (flue,
fiotiligeitliv oi' al.ol)iel , tlereo. Ill case such p'er.l
hI abe)$fll. or his rePiid e li be uIllki ow,, service il|ay be ,roade by pubtlication or notive to h~is agetls, untder th; di-
I'fveio fIo til' c('(iti, ] 'llSu1hl tlllel" as illy he properMa.
T'eI 'elp'rt fX the r(l'e'e l''rte' on nu1i.t Ib)ei iade to tlie
c'mlfl'ati,l l| IIV 'bte 'colif',l fd,f i0ldified, or et aside, a dr new (whured,i iehealt e've .i..ti Ift' ieca sle may require.
Sit . GFI . It it be allhfged ill tiie coll,'fil , anid establli.shed 1,I evidelice,, (w it'it ra, ppear" bY tile evidence w ith ou td td h i~ nill t !cl m d n t t' he Sti~t i Mm l I)[ lilt' flI't, that the pl'pety, mr ailly part of' it, is 5t sit- lIted tihat tite partitionvf anlot he Ilade without girat
Ir udi'e t(ft he fown'lers , ilte' il't lly order t Site til'il't'f';
othl'r !ie:, ullff'll tihe I's'listt' jflfooIf. lifvilg ll it', it IlIlst
h'fdflf paIrtitiif wfvordilfg to tlt' r'spective rights( o I' le
Ipa||'ics, a.s'I sveta~ined I?"t he c~mi.l, an]d apploint th'1e1
refer.,th etrefi,|; .11n lut designate tile portionl to |'ellaill
undivided C(r' ilte owniers wIse inte'ests rell.i lilklown
ff' lIr'e 110t lsce(rtfl inted.
S .t'. 6 17. Ii inaking the lrltitimi, the 'fi v,f' ft Inlist divide the properly and allot the se'veral ipf)PtiIs tihe'e fif the reptectiv'e plrties; i1lflvity and quantity i't.I-, :ntiveiv c(Illsidcred, :accitwdin ' 0 tile IresIpeclive rild't.s Ill, t f Pt the parties, a.s deterinl IYv tilt' court, pulPrsuant toI the
ifr'f\'i'ifIs oftlih is ChapIjter, ieSipltlt-ti'lg tile s,'ev'e]mraf'lti ols
Iv irop'e r 111i1lafr k , and |11 v eplliov In surveyor, with
It|.. ',-.arl\v" 'assist alt ti)ai d divill.
,St.,!. 6-IS. The refere.s mus.t make I report of' their Jf!'ff'f'dillgs, spei''tiln thilff'f tile manneriIC I!ilich! thf~ exected their truist n110( .cribi ig tile lil Irpty di\vidll a ndo t i leS h a ret s allo t t eol 0 ) va ch1] : 1 1ty , wii 'l .1 pir,t i c t r d efCPliltiol
of, tach share.
ill- eSt. . ,si1d6.e- 1tIie, T.i| l'ee lO' 1.y i l . di Fv , 'and, I' le'eessary, 1IplP(i:,t ('*\re flure e . U p o| | tle r'pe o rt b e ||tpt| . 'ol ifrilie d , .ill(I '~mffg' ! | t| 11111st Ie 'endeed'. IlIat slifh pIatitiiln I et lulfl lI)!NVI',, wihMf juldgmenit is binldi|lg1.n l f'mfiiflsiv':
uu 1." "Oi1n Cil )',' p(earsons Jaued as par'ties to thie u'tiioi, 'id
dheir legid reprisentatives who luve at tile tine aii , interest
if, the popertv divided, o' 11y part thereof, 1a s ,wn ers ill
(ol,' as telants fotr life or fibi years, o' as entitled to the
r'versio ree,m inder, o' the inheritance of' such loperty,
, (o&f' lly part thereof" alfter the detemintion of' a pa:'-
tieuli' ('stlie theleiln, alld who b ainy eontingenev amay be
eintitled to a hen(efihial interest ill tile i'(pe'(tV, (r Milo have
all interest ill l'ly lindivided slare ilereof as tenants fi'
veau's or fill- lil,;
2. ()ii all pers.s interested ill the properly who nma
1be ullnow'n, to whom ltice has been given of' the action
I'll[' par'titio)n by publication; and,
3. )n ,ill other pernsons elaimlng fronm slielh parties
4WPI e'solls, M'e ither of' them. Andl l)judgillent is ilnval-
Hdated l, 'easll of' the death of, lly party hefore filial
j4 (lignelnit o' d(ree ; but such .iudgninelt o' decree is as con -
eilsive anilgnst 111' heirs, legal replesentat ives, o4' nssigns
(4f' such deceent, as if it 1hd beei entered ie'fre his
death.
not to The udgient does not alet temts forl
years, lfe ss ti tl', to t' e wh e of' tle prperty whiell is
the si)l ( jeet of* the partiti hn.
i l.t . 051. The expenses f' the reees, including lo.hse of, tile surlveylr alld his assistants, whenl employed,
il a tl li usl t asc el illed a nd a llo wed I n " -oh i l] r d h
allounlt thervoif together with the t .,es allhowed by3 tile e,,iurt
ill its discretion to the referees, must be apportioned allonig
the ditle'ent parties to tile action equitably.
(6355'2. . \\']en a lien is oil ill midivided interest
01.', aemSyfl e of of the partie, sulch lien, if' a pll'tition be
'le, Shall ]leleefol'th be :1 elarge only on tile share ash.
'i-ned to sie nty, ]it such share illist be first elarged,
with its just prol)ortion of tile costs of' the partition, in
prefience to such lien.
SEC. 653. When a alrt of tile loperty only is oror
dere d to 1)e sold, if' there Ie an estate for'lif oitr yelrs ill all i ndiviled slare of the whole ploperty, slich estate 11' y he
set oil' in ally p)art of tile p rope r ty not, orderetd1 o lie ohl.
SEC. 054. The proceeds of' the sae of the ene-lill-
berd lproperty mst be pplied under tlhe dir(c.tion of' tie l
cour1't, as tfollows :
1. To pay its just proportion of tile general eo.s
(4, tile lietion;
2. To pay the costs of the refirence;
3. To satisfy and cmneel of e('(rl the several liens
in their order of' prioritv, )., payment of the sums duc and
to become due; the amomi1t (1i1 to be verified )y aflidavit
at the time of payment ;
4. The residue among the owners of the property
sold, accordinllg to their respective shares therein.
Si,(. 055. Whenev'er ally party to Oil action who
hols a licl u1pon tile )rolerty, or any a'rt thereof, is otl other scurities for tie payment of tile amouit of such .. SUI1110t 1~, .101) 1l( first liin, tie t court may, ill its dis(retion, order such sec'ities t...to be exhausted before i distributioln of tile )roCeds of,
sale, or may order a just reduction to be made from the
aillotlit of t lie hell oil tile ])ropertMoiI acCollt thereof.
SEC. 656. Thiell proceeds of sale, .and the sec'ities talken by tile refe'ees, or aly lpart thereof, iiiiist be distri%l)- ... uted by them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever tile
court so directs. But ill case no direction be given, all of'
such lroeeds and securities must be paid into court, or
deposited therein, or as dire('ted by the court.
SEC. 657. When t lie 1ocecds of the sale of any share Or parcel belohnging to persons wllho a'e parties to tile ae- tif 1,and \wIho are iknown, are paid into (ou0rt, tile actioll Ie continued s betweell siitlh parties, for tile deter- Iili~litiotl of' their respective elaimis thereto, whill must e rli' e( :illd adjudged by the court. Further testiony
lllay be takenl ill Court, or )y a1 referee [t tile disretion of
the court, and tile court may, if' lecessary, require such
parties to p(resent thle fits or la' ill controversy, by !)leadings
as il1 all origin1 action.
SEc. 658. All sales of real prcperty, made by ret- erees uider this Chapter, mllust 1)e .ulde at public all, .tion to the highest bidder, 11po notice published ill
the mantuner requ ired for the male of real property oi1 execution.
The notice lilist state the teris of' sale, and if' the
proplerty, or an ) v part of it, is to be sold suljiect to a prior
estate, 'large o0' lien, that must he stated in the notice.
SEC. 659. Thie court nmust ill the order for sale, , v direct the terms of credit which may be allowed fir tile plIlu'llulse mlnoney of any portion of' tie ])remises of which
it imay di'ect a sale on1 credit, and for that portion of
whichi the plrchlase money is required by the provisions
hereinafler contained, to be invested fbr the ibenefit of 11-
known owners, minors, or parties out of tile Territory.
SEc. 660. h'lher elrees may take separate mortgages
ald other securities for the whole or convenient portions of' tile purchase money, of such parts of the property as 'u'e directed by the court to be sold on credit, fbr tile sihares of
any known owner of full age, ill the namne of such owier
and fbr the shares of it minor ill the 11nae of the guiar'dialt
of such minor, and ftor other shares, ill the name of' the
clerk of tile court, anld his suitessors in ofice.
SEC. 661. The person entitled to a tenancy for life
or years, whose estate has been sold, is entitled to receive
such sum as may be deenled a reulsonlable satisfaction for
such estate, and which the person so entitled may consent
to accept instead thereof, by anlit instrument in writing, filed
with the clerk of' the court. Upon tile filing of such col -
sent, the clerk must enter the same ill the ninuites of' the
(vol1i't.
SEC. 612. If suich consent be not given, filed and
entered, s pl'ovided in the lst section, at or befbre n .judgmenit
of sade is rendered, the court must ascertain aid deterfilne
what proportion of the procecils of i lie sale, after
deducting exl)enses, will be a just and reasonalble stinm to be
•allowed oil accouint of' such estate, and nust order the saIe
to he paid to sucl party, or deposited ill the cou't for him,
as tile 'ase nmay require.
SEC. 613. If' the person entitled to stuh estate fi'.
lifb or years be unknown, the court must provide for the
protectio of' their rights ill the ailw nialner, as fll 'its may
Ie, as if' they were known and had )appeared.
SEC. 166. In all ase of sales, when it appears that
any person has a vested or contilngent future right or astate
ill aiy of the property sold, the court must ascertain and
settle the prolortional value of stuch contingent or vested
right or estate, aid mustdi1re ct sueh pro)ortioll of' the proceeds
of the stile to be Iivestled, secured or paid over, ill
such ilaim er as to protect the rights and intecrruts of' the
parties.
SEC. 665. In all (ses of' salI of property, the termis
Iimst be made known at the time, and if tie welises Coltime.
'o'd~ltfnm i ' lutle5 1 ls'''tl
sist of distinct thrnis or lots, they must 1) sd separately.
SEC. 666. Neither of the ref rees, nor aly person
for tie benefit of either of' them, can be inte'este'd ill any
purclase; nor (can a guardian of' a iminor party be intercsted
in the purchase of any real property, being the subject
of the action, except fi'o the benefit of the minor. All
s" e s cotrary to tile pr'ovisions of' this sectionm are void.
SEC. 667. Aofft eor rcdoenrepdl ettion gb ie IS soaldle tohfe threeF eprreoe penritnys,t
report tie same to tile court, with aI description of' the
diterent larcels of' land sold to each pur'haser; the naeo.
of the purchaser; the price paid or secured; the terms and
conditions of the sale; and the securities, if any, taken.
The report must be filed in the office of the clerk of the
court.
SEc. 668. If thle sale be confirmed by the court, an order must be entered directin.r' the referces to execute con- veyancus and take such securities pursuant to such sale; which they are hereby aithorized to do. Such order may
also give direction to thein rcsp)cting the disposition of the
proceeds of the sale.
SEC. 669. When ta party is entitled to a share of the property, or an incunmbracer entitled to have his lien paid of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt fo' so much of the proceds of the sale as belongs
to him.
SEc. 670. The conveyances must be recorded in the
County where the Igeinises are situated, and shall le ia br against all person/trested in time property in any way, who shall have been inmiled as parties in the action, and agaiinst all such parties and persons is were unknown, if' the summions
was served by publication, and against all persons
claiming under them, or either of them, and against all
persons having unrecorded (leeds or liens at the commencemitent.
of the action.
SEC. 671. When there are proceeds of a stle belong- ing to an unknown owner, or to a person without the Ter- ritory, who has no legal representative within it, tihe sane be invested in securities at interest for the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.
SEC. 672. When the security of the proceeds of sale is taken, or when an investment of any such proceeds is mnade, it nust be done, except as herein otherwise
provided, in the name of the recorder of the county
where the papers are filed, and his successors in oflice, wlo
must hold the same fbr the use and benefit of' the parties
interested, subject to the order of the court.
SEC. 673. When security is taken by the referees
on a sale, and the parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing under their hands delivered to the agree upon the shares and proportions to which they are respectively entitled, or when shares aud propor- tions have been previously adjudged by the court, such
securities iust be taken in the names of; and payable to,
the parties respectively entitled thereto, and must be delivered
to such parties upon their receipt therefor. Such
agreement and receipt inust be returned and filed with tile
clerk.
SEC. 674. The recor(ler illw hose imm a security is
stmentst.a ken, or by whom an investment is made, and his successors
in ollice, onist receive the interest and ,principal as
it become.s (IIe, and apply and invest the salne as the court
my direct, anli( must deposit with the county treasurer all
securities taken, and keep an account in a iook provided
and kept f'otrha t pnrpose, in the recorder's office, fiee fbr
inspectio Ioy all persons, of investments aa 0d( 1nieys received
by hiiii thereon, and the disposition thereof.
SEC. 675. W1hen it, ap ears that p:'tition can t I)e
on ade equally between tile parties acvording to their re.peC- tive rights, without pr lidice to tile rights and interest of,
some of them, nl1(1 a partition he ordered, the court 111v.1
adjudge (Oil)iensati oi to lie Inode by on e party to aliotler,
on ec'oillit of' the inequality; but such comlpensatio shall
. not be required to be made to others by owners unknown,
lor by a lmillo', unless it appeasl' that ;1$iIl lilnilor hlas perillc
ases. sonal )ro)erty sufficient fir that 1)111i'po.e, andi that his illterest
will be pronmoted thereby. And illal l cases the
court has power to make Colmpeisatory adjustment 1)etween
the respective p: rtie.s, according to the ordinary principles
of' e(iity.
SEC. 676. When the share of a minor is sold, tile
proceeds of' tile sale may be paid by the referee miak ing the
sile to his geieral guardian, o1' tie special guardian apdi
pointed flor himi1 ill tile action, 11)o11 giving the security reqIuiired
by ]m' or directed by order of the court.
SEC. 677. The guard iaii who may e entitled to tiie
(...(s toadnyd llali:igellnent, of' the estate of' ail insllie person,
or other person adjudged incalpable of' conducting his own
1ilbirs, whose intere.st in real property has been sold, may
receive, in behalf of' siue] person, his sha'e of' the proceeds
of' such real property, f'l'oimi the referees, oil executing with
sufficient sureties llu1n dertaking approved by tile judgle of
the court, that lie will fitithiflly discamrge tie trust reposed
ill him, and will render 1 true and just iccouint to
the person entitled, or to his legal representative.
SEC. 678. rhe general gua'dian of a"iminor, amid the
artd. ian entitle d to tiie ciistoly "1od nnagenment of' the
tate of' 'a insane pe or other person adjudgeo. incute
es~ OIIS1, a~ldg' n eapable of conducting his Ol1i aflhirs+ who is initerested iin
real estate ield in joint tenancy, or in cOninO, 01or ill aiiy
other manner so ILS to authorize his being made a party to
all action fbr the partition thereof, may consent to a partitioii
without action, an1d agree upon the share to bo set oil
to suich inor, or other person entitled, and may execute aI
release in his behalf to the owners of the shares of the
parts to which they may be respectively entitled, upon an
order of the court.
SEc. 679. The costs of pmrtition, including reason- able counsel fees, expended by the plaintiff or either of the dlefndn:ts, for the common benelit, fees of referees and other disillrsemliellts, 1must be paid by the parties respectively
entitled to share ill the lands divided, in proportion
to their respective interests therein, and may be included
and specified ill theJuidginent. In that se they shall be
SlIi en oil tile several shares, anld tile julgment may be enfoiced
by execution ag:inst such sha'es, aill against other
)roperty held by tle respective parties. When, however,
Itigatioll arises betw(ell Some of the parties oy1, the court
may require the expenses of such litigation to be paid by
tile parties thereto, or any of' them.
SEC. 680. The court with tile consent of the parties, may appoint a single referee, instead of three referees, in ile l)roceedings under tile lrovisions of this Chiapter, and the single referee, when tiris applointed, has all the powel's
aId may llerfl'in all the duties required (ff tile thiee
i'o'ieiees.
SEc. 681. If it alppear that Other actions Or I)rTeed- ligs have been mn ecessarily prosecuted or (le'lmdl(l by any coom. )lle of' the tellallits ill colllllOll, fbi' tile protection, eollfi'ill- ation, o r perlfe ting of ti e title, or setting tile bo ldaries, 01 ma11ikilig a survey or surllveys of' tle estate partitioned, tle
court shall allow to the parties of' the action who have paid
the expenses of such litigation or other proceedings, all the
expenses necessarily incurred therein, including counsel
flees, whii slall have accrued to the common benefit of'
tile other tenants ill ComllI 1110, with interest thereon from
tile date of' making tile said expenditures, and tile samne
must be pleaded and allowed by the court and included ill
tIe final judgment, and sh11d1 be aI lien upon the share of'
each teallnlt, ruipectively, ill p roportion to his interest, and
shall be enfbreed ill the same manner as taxable costs of
paltition are taxed1 and collected.
SEC. 682. If it appear to tile court that it was necessary to have made an iabstract of tile title to the property
to be lartitioned, and such alstract shall, have been procured
by tile )laintiff, or if tile plaintif 1shall have fiiled to
have the sune made before the commencement of tile action,
and ally one of tile dfendaits sliall have had such abstract
36
afterward Iiadc, tile cost ot' tile abstlract with interest
tereon fnronil tile tiil' tile salle is Su),ijct to the instetioln
(t' tile respective parties to tile act ion, litsit lbt allowed and
taxed. Wlhenever sich abstract is provulred by tile philiti 11
beotre tile. ('Iii nel eilent of tile action, he niiust file with
his compQlaint a notice that all a:.t lct of the title u s Iimil
Ilile, ulld is subject t tlhe il pection and use (If' all til'
pa'ticM to tile action, designating thereiln wher' the abstr~ait
will be kept fo ilspectio. . Ilt if't ilel lailtitli'shll have
thiile d t i proire su'h abstract iefore Ctillll (' 11 ill,,t he a.ction, and a11ndye,fe ~ndailt shall provilre tile same to be
made, lie shall, "isso o( as he il. directed it to be mlade,
tilt' a notice thereolil l tile lction With tile I'lerk (Ii the
cour't, ,stating who is mn'a.iiig the samne and where it will
he kept whell inished. The court, li tiI judge thereof"
P. direct, f'ir oln illIIt0 tot'Ptit, diring the progress f't he
action, tlisoh ll havetilt tht ee f, te a tltratt.
SEC. 683. The abtrat menltioned illt' e last prei a- Ilnl.,CInlg f sectionx Im ayNb e Ilad e bY. a lly com petent searcherl o f,"
recol'd1s, :ill( ned not be certified by the recor'der or other
offive, b t illstt'ad thereot' it muIIst be verified by tfe allidavit
t' theP 11rsoll i, iulg it,t tile fi t hfl he believes
it ah olItt'ett ; but iittst IMt bae correted, froi tim
to tin* ,e,it ;)1. a iit ' t i ti,e i theg diiererc tions of't ile
(,iollrt.
SEC. 684. '\~lWhneve, duringl the( p)rogress of' tile:
fe Ii patri' titiin, 'y lgilidii Mtsellient shall have been
l P t(5 i 41 IIiiI til ~'~ieai tluO ~ltI
mde, und " the diection of the oigrt,hortli the iuge tielof,
tbiylIe timpaier toyf , thmearkeintogu, inSutcehrle sdt ismbuursste mheet natl.lowed thereo f rom
SEC. 691. A ll actio ln la y be broug h t ill tile na me1 o1f '
tile people of tilts 'l'erritorv igainst aly personl Who usurps,
p,,1% intrudes into, holds or exercise"; ally offlcu or frandc [l:e,-
se. real oi. pretendedi, within thiis rerritory, without authority
-' . -]I ch tion shitll he brought by tile prosc.-tting
attorney of' tile proper counity, whenl tile offiee ol. fi-alehise
reclates to Ilvo unt.N, precinc't or' vityaNn,d when such office or
fralc'hise r'elates to tlt, Tierritor'y, by the U!nited States district
attorney; anld it Shall Ileth e duity of' the iproper offi-
(', uponp ropelr showin g, to lriin g suchl action whenever
he has rIeasoni to believe that any such ofiee or fr'anchise
has beenl lisurp ed, intruded into, held or exercised without
atithority of law. Any person rightfidlly entitled to ila
olfice or franchise ny Ib ring an action i his ownii inlle
against tie imson Who has liisped, intruded into, or wiho
holds or exercises tie same.
SEc. 092. Whenever such action is brought ill tile name of' tie people of lie T erritory, the lroseeutilig oflil' ... at tile request of* tile person entit led to tile office 01- fra- chise, ill addition to le (nuise of' action illb elalf o1f tile
people of tile Territor.v, nmay set forth the Iname of the persoi
so entitled, wvit a statel!tent of' his right thereto, and
ill such case, upl n proof by aflidavit that the d(efindalt lhas
retC'eived flce(4 or enolumenits belongilg to the ofice, 'ald by
iltieans of, usurplation tli'eof', all orier lay be granted In'
tile judge, or (olli't wherein the case is pending, for l;te
arrest of' such defndant, ,Ilndlo lding himi to bail; ald
thereupon lie may be arreste l alld ield to bail, in the sllli('
taoI llt 'll a 11d with tille Samlie eflect, aill su je(t to tile smie
rights, aM liabilities, its ill other civil actions where the
de&ltdaMit is Subject to a'est.
SEC. 093. Ill every such ('lse judgment nll1 be ren- dered ulpotn tile right o' flie defj'ildn lt,1 also'upon t right of the party so alleged to le entitled, or only u1)on. tile right of' tile defimdant, as the fbrm of the action tnd Iustice Ilmy require.
SEC. 694. If' tile .judgenlcnt I(' rll(le'tl upon tile rigit of tile persol So alleged to be eutitled, Iniid the salie 1)1 ill favor of such persol, lie sllI be entitled, after taking tie oath of' oflice aM executinl, such official )ond as may
liree quiret] Iby law, to take itlII hinsel1' tile execution of'
the ofihe.
SEC. 695. If' .jiudgment lle rendered IpiOi the right of' tile personi S) alleglt to I)e (otitid, ill javlor of' s h... he 1ll11 r'ecover, by action, the dalllages which lie nllay have stistailled by reason of' the usurpaltion of' the
office by the defilndant.
SEC. 696. When several persons claim to be entitled to tle same ollce or fraliise, onre actioln may 1)e Iroutrht against all such persons, ill order to try tileir respective rights to such oflice or f'auichise.
SEC. 697. When a defetldant, Igainst whom snch action hIs been brought, is adjudged guilty of uslfinpiltg 01' intruding into, or untlawfiull' holding IlltV.i.l ite, f'.
(hse or privilege, judgment must be rendered that such
defendant ie excluded from the office, fnnchise or privilege,
pnd that he pay costs of the action. The court may
also, in its discretion, in aetions to which the people of the
Territory are a 1.rty, 1i1)00 Upon tile defbndant a fine not
exceeding five thounind dollars, which fine, when collected
must be paid into the treasury of the Territory.
SEC. 698. When the action is brought upon the information
or application of a private party, the prosecuting
ofiecr may require such party to enter into an uiidertakwh.
in ing, with suretius to he ai proved by the said officer, conpation.
-ditioned that such party or the sureties will pay any
judgment for costs or damages recovered against; the
plaintiff, and all the costs and expenses incurred in tile
prosecution of the action.
TITLE XI.
OF PI1OCEE1)INGS IN JUSTICEN'( OP i'S.
C'IJmvrt 1.
Place of T,'Ha Of Actions in Jujiicef' Courts.
SEc. 701. Actions in .ustices' courts mlst be con-
menlced subject to the right to change the place of trial, as
in this Chapter providld, and must be tried:
1. If' there is no justice's court for the precinct or
city in which the defendant resides, in any city or precinct
of the county in which lie resides;
2. When two or more persons are jointly, or jointly
and severally bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise
jointly liable in the same action, and reside in different
precincts or different cities of the samc county, or in diffcrent
counties; in the rccinct or city in which any of the
persons liable may resie;
3. In cases of injiiry to the person or property; in
the precinct or city whcre the injury was committed, or
where the defendant resides;
4. If fbr, tile recovery of personal property or the
value thereof, or damages for taking or detaining the
same, in the l)recinct or city in which the property may be
found, or in which the property was taken, or in which the
defendants reside;
5. When the defendant is a non-resident of the
county, in any. lrecinet or city wherein he may be fbund;
6. When the defendant is a non-resident of the Territory,
in any precinct or city in the Territory;
7. When a l)ersoni has contracted to 1)erform an obligation
at a particular place, and resides in another county,
p)recinet or city, in the precinct or city in which such obligation
is to be performed, or in which he resides;
8. When the parties voluntarily appear and plead
without summons, in any precinct or city in the Territory;
9. In all other eases: Iii the precinct or city in
which the defendant resides.
SEC. 702. The court may at any time before the Place trial, oil motion, change the place of trial in the followaig cases:
1. When it appears to the satisfaction of the justice
before whom the action is pending, by affidavit of either
pirty, that such justice is a nmaterial witness for either
party;
2. When either party makes and files all affidavit
that he believes that he cannot have a fiir and impartial
trial before such justice, by reason of the interest, prejudice,
or bias of the justice;
3. When from any cause the justice is disqualified
from acting;
4. When the justice is sick or unable to act.
SEc. 703. The place of trial cannot be changed oi motion of the same party more than once, upon any or all the grounds specified in the first and second subdivisions of the preceding section.
SEC. 704. When the court orders the place of trial to be changed, the action must be transferred for trial to a court the patrties may agree upon, and if they do not so
agree, thei to another justice's court in the same county.
SEc. 705. After an order haus been made, transferorderchanging
ring the action for trial to another court, the following
)roceedings innst be had:
1. The justice ordering the transfer, must iumediately
transmit to the justice of 'the cou't to which it is
transferred, on payment by the party applying, of all costs
that have accrued, all the papers in the action, together
with a certified transeril)t from his docket, of the proceedings
therein;
2. Upon the receipt by him of such papers, the justice
of the court to which the case is transierred, must
issue a notice, stating when and where the trial will take
place, which notice must be served upon the parties at
least one day before the time fixed for trial.
SEc. 706. From the time of the order changing the
place of trial is made, the court to which the action is
thereby transferred, has the same jurisdiction over it as
though it had been commenced in such court.
SEc. 707. The parties to an action ill a jtfice's
court, arnot give evidence upon any questions which ino
volve the title or possession of' real property, nor can any
issue presenting such question be tried by such court, and
if it appeal- from the answer of the defendant, verified by
his oath or that of' his agent or attorney, that the determination
of the action will neces.sarily involve the question
of title or possession to rea.l property, the justice must
suspend all further proceedings in the action, and certify
the pleadings, and it any of tle pleadings are oral, a transcript
of the same, from his docket to the clerk of the
district court of the district in which said justice's prccinct
is situated,, and from the tilie of filing such pleadings or
transcript with the clerk, the district court has over the
action the sune jurisdiction as if it had been commenced
therein; Provided, That in cases of forcible entry and detainer,
of which justices' courts have jurisdiction, any evidence
otherwise competent, may be given, and any question
properly involved therein, may be determinted.
SEC. 712. An action in a justice's court is comienced
by filing a complaint. 
SEC. 713. Thie court must indorse on the complaint the date upOi whi(h it was filed, and at any time within one year tiereafter, the llaintiff may have summons issued. 

SEC. 714, At a'y time after the complaint is filed, the defendant may, in writing, or by appearing and plead- ing, waive the issuing of sunimmons. 

SEC. 715. Parties in justices' courts may appear and.
a.t ill personI, or ,by attorney, ad any petiXoneJx cept tile by whom tile summons or jury Iroess was served, may let as attorney.
SEC. 716. Whe a minor, insane or incompetent
person is a p)arty, he must appear either by his general guardian, if' he have one, or by a gliardian ad /item ail- pointed by the justic: When a guardian ad litem, is ap)l)ointed by the justice, he must be ap)poitcd as follows:
1. If the minor, inlsane, or incompetent person be
plaintitl, the pl)pointnient must lie mad beftore tihe summons
is issued, upon tile application of tile infant, if he be
of' the age of' fourteen years; if inder that age, or if in-
SaMLe, or incompetent, upon the al))lickation of a relative or
friend ;
2. If the miinor; insane, or incompetent person be
defeindant, the appointiment must be made at the time the
summons is returned, or before tile answer, upon the appliuttion
of the minor if he be of' the age of ftorteen years,
and apply at the time or before the summons is returned.
If lie be under the age of fourteen, or be insane or incompetent,
or neglect so to apply, then upon the applic(ation of
a relative or Miend or any otlier party to the action, or by
the justice on his own motion.
SEC. 717. Tie summons must be directed to the de- f'endant, and signed -tbmy the justice, and mf usite cocn tua int : 1. The title of the court, name of the county and city or preeinet in which the action is commened, and the
names of tile parties thereto;
2. A sulfficient statement of the cause of' action, in
general terms, to ap)prise the deflmiduant of' the nature of the
claim against him;
3. A direction that the defendant appear and answer
before the justice, at his office, as specified ill Section 718
of this Code;
4. Ill an action arising on a contract for the recover -
of money or damages only, a notice that unless the defeidant
so appear- allnd answer, the plaintifi will take Judgment
for the sum claimedlb y him (stating it);
5. In other actions, a notice that unless tile detentdat
so appear aind answer, the plaintiff will apply to the court
for the relief demanded. If tile plaintiff has appeared by
attorney, the name of the attorney must be indorsed upon
tile s mlmlnOlls.
SEC. 718. The time specified ill the summons for the
alplpearance of the defen(ant must be as follows:
. If an order of arrest is indorsed upon the sum-
Molls, forthwith;
2. In all other eases. the summinons must contain a
direction that the defendant must appear and answer the
Com)laint within five days, if tile sflhlllions is served ill
the city or precinct ill which tile action is brought; within
tell days, if served out of the precinct or city, but in the
county ill which the action is brought; and within twenty
days, if served elsewhere.
SEC. 719. If tile summons is returned without being
served upon any or all of tile defendants, the justice, upoll
tile demand of the plaintiff; may issue an alias stillimolls ill
tile same fbrn as the original, except thlat lie may fix tile
time for tile appearance of the defendant at a period not to
exceed ninety days from its (late.
SEC. 720. Thie justice may, within a year frnom the
date of tile filing of tile complaint, issue ats many alias
summonses as may be demanded by time plaintiff'
SEC. 721. Tile sumlmons calanot be serveil out of the
county ill which the action is commenced, except, when the
action is biroiiglt upon a joint contract or obligation of
two or more lejonso, who reside ill (liLrent counties, anld
tile stumnmons hias been served upon the defendant, resident
of the county, ill which case tile summons may be served
upon the other deibn(lant out of the county; and except,
also, wlen l an action is brought against a party who has
contracted to perform til obligation at a particillhr llace,
and resides ill a diflerent counity, ill which case suinilois
may be served ill tile county hiere lie resides; and except,
also, where an action is brought for injury to person or
property, and tile defendant resides ill a ditllrent county;
in which ease smlnmions may be served ill tile county where
tile defendant residles. When the defendant resides ;:, the
comity where the action is brought, the siminiols (canliot
be served within two days of the time fixed fhi, tile appiearantce
of' tile deft'tndat; when lie resides out of' the
county, and the Suiflhliolis is served out of the (olilnty, the
SUuiliiliols cannot be served withiti five days of stich tinie. SE. 722. Thbe summons may he served lw any sheritl' of the cointy, or constab le oft lthe precint't or marshal of' the city, ill which the service is made; or bIv
any tide resident, over the age of twenty-one yeais, iot a
party to tile suit, within tile cout whrtv ttille action is brought, and mu1st be Serv'ed and retlrnevd, as lprovided ill
a('ti(,1s C((lIi(di C(Al ill the (listrict court; or it Itmay be
servcl by puilicaiion, and lie sections of this ( \sle pro- viding for tile puiblicationl of' summilonls issued out of, tile
district court, are app~licatble to the justic'e's court, thv
necessa'y changes and Substitutions bei t g tlade thercinI.
SEC. 721. When all the parties seTrvd With process shall have appeared, or some of' thei, have a\ eai'1, :mId th e renia iii , defe'ndan t s have mllade d(fill lt, tile .j stice
must fix a day for the trial of said cause, and notil'y tile
plaititill' and lie dfeidaiit who have appeared, thicreeof.
The parties are entitled to oi(he hour in whi ( 1 t (l1() it aflter tile time fixed ill the sunitnons, but are lot Ihund to
renmain longer thal dtat time unless both parties have uppcared,
and the .just'e being present, is engaged ill th(
trial of' another cause.
SEC. 728. Pleadings ill a justice's court: 1. Are not required to he ill a liartiIliil' fol',n ; but must be such as to enable a person of common understailding
to know what is intended;
2. May, except the complaint, lie oral or in writing;
:3. Need not be verified unless otherwise 1rovided in
this Code;
4. If in writing, must ie filed with the justice;
5. It' oral, an entry of their substance 1ttust be I,,h
in the docket.
37
SIi-.-c . Th712e9c. ollTplhaeil lltp leoafd,'itnhge. si daarei:litill';
'2. Thel( deniu'rer totJil e *ollplidit;
3. The answevr by the 1lad;lt
4. Thedi rer t 1 ti .al(l!l lwe.
.,dnt Si;,O. 7:10. 'Ihe(c omplaii~t in.'Justices"' .ourts is' a( ,ol-
ise s tatement ill writill" of, the( fIcts ,ol, titutinir tll(
plintill'. cause of' action; o1ra lco p ,No"f, tile account~l~, Inotc,
bill, bond, or illi'fillieI ullpo wwhhic lhl tle 'tionil is Iased.
SEC. 731. The del 'ndant iIy at any time Ibeorv.
a.l.werin ,('4 d ICC r to .omla.nt. *
SEC. 732. 'iltI( ll el lal v oit at4 n elnial of' li.(\"
til. ll ,Ililh e material fi l.s tateidn th ("v oil, 'ithilw.ii,
the dvli hanbelieet'ves ltlo be tr'e,4 and alsol statlmenl,
iIC I tohi1 1a d di' M.t,l till'1Ner, 0 'f (l N-' WIRT 1(C' tS (( On1 itilt- ing 'I defens .e or counter cl'hdm, 11l)(11 which all actill
jd:ilt be brou't by the defendant aainst theillal iltil ill 1 jiu.sti~e's c',,tt.
SEC. 733. 11' the defendant oinit h,) set ill) I counter
1,h'4'l'.
., ladm .il t iei at,. mentioned it ile falt sl't ione,i ther 1'
tlor ll' t call l'Ifilov d4 maintain ailalt ion atri.s
the plailill, therei' tt.
SEC. 731. W\h en the answ erv c oi tain .s, vww inai er i nl
11,11.av.o idane, or ,onsti tlt in a dfi I.-orei t Iic'hItS i clm, ollt
iliStElXta y,a t aly tiei Ibefore trial, detll it,) el hit' ('01-
tbr, i.lfivicluw, stating thervill tile grounds of' s.uch dvu
till oilt if' tie a s n .. . S 1.'. 7:1T 5 T h e lpro me.d u g n d m ' u e .
I1 . If,t he demi'er to tile cot plaintl ia .tuo ned, the
pl414til' IC ', withi s oat tli e, nlot exi'eeding tso d .tyN Is
tile co2u. rt allows, aiil(d hies ; 1oml'aint [Ifti'le demurrer to I 'omldaint is ov\errided, the
deftendaml ,nay allswer tin-thw~ith;
:1. 11' tile dellil'rel to anl answer\{" is sustained, thl(
dlefelidalt Inay amend Idisan swver withinl such tilme, not
ex'eedil, two days,, a.sth e(c o<urt may Illo%%;
I1'. t ile Ivllt'rer to aII 1Hl.I\veisr lo verrulled, tile
a'.tionllllmus-t I'oc'md I.isf n'o dellmuirer had beenl interpos:ed.
SEC. 730 . Either may, at anY time bef'ore the (,oil-
d,,Cl,u..Si oli of' tile trial, amend ally pheadinw, Imt if' the amend-
,neent is lmade after tile i.. luaen,od it appeal, to the atisflictionl
of, the court, 1) N oath, that all adjiournment is nleee-U
.snry to, the atdvers-e pa'rty ill con.sequenc'e of' such amend-
Inlent, all adjour,',ment. ,,it lbe g'ranted. The 'ourt n.aN
also,, ill its ,li,.,crwethillo ,a,ll m adijol'll i,, t will hby ilh'
amiendnent 1be rede red necessarY, reqyire, as a condition
to the alhwan(e of stlt'l a nliileillt l made after issue
joinied, the 1pavuienit f* (sts to tlihe adverse party, to ie fixed
In". ti( ourt, not ex(e(dlilg wet dluars. The eourt Illay
-ls), on sii(,i teris as may be j.it, tnd Oh payiient of
vi.st, rlieve a party I'omm a .jtd1-iefllt bty (lilt taken
again.t himt Iby his mistd e, iOidvertete stirpri exci'ilile
mieglet, bit the :iitlication for such relief' iiist ble mlade withill tell dav after, tit,e entry of' ilhe Judgment and
tpoit ali allidavit . , ,g.ito td 'a use Ilher, l''r. Si.c:. 737. Wlheni tie plthadli is ar,l lend el, the ad- \er.e pa t'y illay ',-,P r ' ( llite r to it withini such tithe, ntt exceelitng t vo dhys, as tlile (,illrt muaV allow.
Sv(. i,. 7-)1ar2 . (u, mA n ,onr di( r u t,n nh,evs: t juthse t icdee, falenndd atnilte dmeafYin dh e. ..indorsoil I a simlattois issued by a i fei ant itay le arrest(d tlheoli hi the .i( theril, el histhloer,
city tliars:l, at the timje of' serving the suliuli.otis, anod
htmghit hN'ore lhe ai.ti(d, detlledil imtil dttlv disvlated,
ill the fIolowing cases
I . I [I allation 6w~ tht( rio'er' (if,I 't uney or d':111-
gies, oll .1 cilselt O t'l i at'inii ll l Ocloln ti ct, elxpress5 or
implied, whenl il, tdieetht lalit is ahot to d(ipart h-otit the
Territory, with intent to defrtand his creditors;
I .2. Itt ;tit action for :I fine or penalty, i-.f or Itievy oi- )11)I ,r'-t\ ell hbu zhifl of- f 'a udlefnv tly M isappq lied, of- , m-
\'erthd to his own Ilse lv one who received it ill a fiducei:ry
cap ait -\;
38. Whom the deflt-ldant has heeti gIuilty of,'a flaind ill
vlltto'itg tho debt or iuicarrig the o lig"atiot for which
tle ct ionl is brought;
-I. When the. defeludallt has removed, concealed or
dispos ,d of' Ilis prop tly, or is about to dn S,, with inltet
to defratd his crditors. But no fi'iale call be artested in
atlv civil action.
SEC. 713. Fit casts ftnde'r the( fir'st stiltdivisioti of* thte Ortrex~pr,edii se .tiom, or when the defelt(hlnit is a)olt to depatrt fi'-oii the Te',ritor,', tle' oner of* arrest ia lIive X(inted, anid tite d,(ieidalit trist(t in ally .ountyt il th Territory.
SEC. 744. Before an order fbr il arrest can be made,
the party appllying must prove to the satisfaction of the
justice, by the afhidavit of' himself or some other person,
the facts upon which the application is foulnded. The
plaintiff must also execute and deliver to the justice a
written undertaking in the sum of three hundred dollars,
with sufficient sureties, to the eiMct that the plaimitift' will
pay all costs that may he adjudged to the deilalant, and ill
damages which lie may sustain by reason of the arrest, if
the same b~e wrongfiml, or without sufficient cause, not exceeding
the sulm sle'ified in the undertaking.
SEC. 715. The defendant, immediately upon )eing
aIrrestc1l, must Ie taken to the ollice of' the .justice who
e mIade the order, an( it' he be absent or rialble to try the 1 cbsttr
action, or if' it be made to a)pear to him, by the nflihltvit
of tie defendant, that lie is a material witness in the action,
tie oiicer must immediately take the def'ndant beflore a
.justice of that or adjoiiig pi'ecillect of tile Coui nty, who
must take jli(li('t ion of the action, and pr'oceed thereon
as if' the summons had been issued and the order of' arrest
mitade by him.
SEC. 746. The oflicer making the arrest must inlnegive
dintelh give notice thereof to the phuintifl; or his attorney
or lgent, and ilndorse on the sullmanomis, and subseibe a certifi
ate, stating the time of' serving the same, tie time of
the arrest and of' his giving notice to the plaintiff'.
SEC. 747. The officer making the arrest must keel
the il custody until duly.dn t diselarg h.y7 order of'
the juistice.
SEC. 748. A writ to 'attach the l)IOl)erty of tile (esmpeonnts
dt.f ellmei nt must be issued by the justice at the time of, or ,o;
aftler issuing summous and befi'e aiiswer, on receiving ai
affidavit by or iii behalf of' the plaintiff', showing the satme
flacts as are required to l)e shown by the aflidavit for attailelit
out of the distriet court.
SEc. 749. Before issuing the w'rit the .justice must
require a written undertaking on the part of' the 1l'iitifl
with two or more sufficient sureties, in a sum not less than
fifly nor more than three hundrmtl dollars, to the efl'et that
if' the lefendant receives jidgient, the plaimitifi' will pay
all (,!sts that may be awardel to the deflendlnt, and all
tiamages which lie nmuay sustain by reasoll of' the attachiient,
not exceeding tile sun speeilied in the undertaking.
SEC. 750. he writ may be (ire.ted to the sheriff or
any constable of the county, or the sherilt' of' any other
county, and must require him to attach and safely keep all
the property of the defendant within his county, not exempt,
from execution, or so much thereof as may be sulifcient
to satisfy the plaintiff's demand, the amount of which
must lie stated ill conformity with the complaint, unless Oflicer tie (defeldilant give him recuity, by the undertaking of two an instead sureties, ill an amount sufficient, to satisty such ig.
demand, besides costs; in which cause, to take such undertaking.
SEC. 751. TIme sections of this Code providing for Certain attachments out of tile district courts exceipt as ill this i"Chapter expressly provided, are applicable to attachments apply issueI out of justices' courts; the necessary changes and
substitutions being milide thereimn.
SEc. 752. In an action to recover possession of per- sonal prolerty, the Ilaintil ' umay, It tile time of issuing dicy suimiois, or at any lime thereafter befbre answer, claini
the delivery of such property to him ; and the sections of
this Code providing tie practice in proceedings for claim
and delivery of' personal property ill tile district court, arc
aplplicable to like proceed ings ill justice's courts, the nmccessary
changes and substitutions being male therein.
SEC. 757. When the dteufen mlat * fitls1 to app~ea r anduJudgmnent answer or demur at th tinie specified in tile s, mmmons, or within onme h1our' thereafter, tile justice must he'a" tile evi- to denee otflred 1)y time llaintill; and niust render j dglent
in his favor' for snLch it suill (not, exceeding tile allmouLIt
stated in the sillill11OnIs) aS appears by such evidel('e to
le just.
SEC. 758. In the following nsos the same proceed- Judgment
ings must hue had, and Judgment must be rendered in like rmanuer, as if time defemndamt had failed to. appearam, answer o' demulr:
1. If' tile complaint has been amended, and the defendant
ftils to amswer it as amended, within the timie allowed
by tie court;
2. If time demurrer to the complaint is overruled,
and the defendant fails to answer at once;
31. 11' tile denmurrer to tile answer is s ustained, and
tile def,1.'4t, fhils toI IIIIeil(| ](e:I Iswe'r within tile time
all]ow(,d 1)vNti te, vonl.
SEC. 79. 1Tnhes ,'j i]1, mvdI) r ov'ided ill this
(hh'e ter(, 4 ill l'.,' tI 'IInf( H'''IIr4 to another court, the' tr'ioaf4,l tn( mi'lit eilu lIocllie' d.(' 44t111i'(l!l ea t the ex]piratio o ole Il44r
Cr(ll ile tihl le si)4,|ifieildl] the 5lll3illoii flr tih :l( )I)(' v4,l',
of' the dv1'nI:llt, and ti)' trial iiii.-t ihe contililled, witlhout
(1j4)lll'llllt11 11)3I' l11l '(rIm o)r Itha eltV-loill' 1l14l l'sa t liny 4)ll
tilel, 11til :ii ih' i.-ll4,ishe rihl al' diM)44So.'d o.
'1:4'. 71O. iT'ch'ie' t 1:1Y, of it- own mo4tion, pa-st-
, ji 1et Ihe rial :
o.... 1. i',ol' Ili(t .X(-'e(((l Il4j1 4((I' Va ' if'a,t tittti me1 fixed] IN' law o4)i " all o d (1ifr,'4 t111 64r Ii))', trial, 11 (ourt is
('Ilg i 'edl ill thi t'i:al of* an t)her :(.i4l ;
2. For" not ex4'('eding two d:ayi't, ,I ii :i nmen(I4ni'"t
of tillp4'h .liaings, or" tile lh%,;IIIVw,' if1 1111t44( Il'ak su(h
all11(il(ilt 4)r to4 liad, :a post)elenllt'Ilt iS I'4enlered I n('-
e!.sl 'V ;
8. 14t 4'x4'4'ii' three d's, it'ti t(! trial is upl
issues1 i1'1 , 't:,l l4l: jilA' Im been ('Inl: (' 4 4d.
u~ ....1.~.. ..(. 7 1I . T he' ]( t Ini a.'h, y c'{lmlf lolI *t il(p a rtui e s,
"We(ll ill \v lill, o~r ill openl c'ourt'l,p os:tpvll lt ill' tr'ial t) :1
timet :,,..r'luepdl l. )y the pi): chs.
SEC. 762. '!'it''ie'i l Inn:)' 1)'l 4i(l Stlo 414Ip on3) the Ill-
li(atioln (4r (itihlt' 1') ,61't. : 1 pe'riod1 n)ot ex'eedinllg' fo)llr
311441il11
1. ''llhIerl n'ty mll4ki.g the apliitio: n illmlp.rs'tv e, I.\
his )\Vnl oath 44(3I' to 'l'\\i-se't, i:1h1tet 'ca nnot, I'))' \Valit 1' IliaWttel'it(
vngii llill.IV, \ h e (ex(p ec(t"- tl p~rocurel', .,flypro-
('4(1 1o trial, :a 4 IlutSt| ow ill \vIi:l t r' 'ect lhet t illllI''
,Xl d is maltr''i:l, :and1 ilmlt 1(, baisl s (dl due dilig-1n1,e to
pIilre' it, :arind h1.41 )4,e1l1l:l4 1e to 4d1444 O;
2. 11 the app'lia1t1.iioln is the lpart ()'t htl4( initll', .1u0t le(d fen(l'lmt is mildel. ar're(st, at po.stponl(_eent |()"l (,(
tlum)) thr'e !Ill' s dis(ha'l'('5t1h ' lef'eldanft' r()(l.'lui lhi";
bunt Ili(, actionI mayI iprocee,{d llo(i\':i]nl|l hl', and till dfeh',
il:434t is l)je(to. t:4 1'4est ()1 exe(ution, illti le samIll aIIt14')
a's if'1 I!14 l'1l nott ) 1 1l lisc'hargrel
: Ii' th14a )plic'ation1 is on t1ie i4'otf .Id etll-dtlit
undel{r l'' { her,w e it (-.Il be grallOl ntil e us exe..cltv. anl
lld(t'ak¢ill., withh two'(o r mnore( tliffiivlt sulretie, |o b)ei t))-
pol ted I11, :1110 il)l' .iti) ll to hbef ixed ' byh \"i'.J sti'e, to till
441I114t'' 441) wll3 'ithatt r1il4hl 4i1 l44ll r 14 : :,t, l44lt )h)t 11')O ('ess
tt heil 'llll(l! [i li (n. l,ly ( iofl'i lta!i onila,n id to) ,l ich
:1.I ll'IhVe i- 1ii(tdo icl iflv<e th( .iud"illnt thei inl ; o1' llthat
the sureties will pay to the plailitill, the aniiniit of' aly
Jiudgment whih lie Ilay recover il tile action, not exeetiill
the amiiiiuuit sleeified ill the tuliderttkiln. ( ) tiling the
undertaking speitied ill this Suhdivision, tilejustite liiist
(1rdel. fill def'endant to be dlischarged fi',ie'mus to( y;
-1. The party iiiakilkl the appli:atii mlust, if re-
(ji l d y ti e ldvc---e l: aty, (olisent that tli testiioiiv (if,
IIly \'itiliss (if, sii(}I Ver- pally, w'ioi is ill atteiil:IIVIe,
may he theni taken by depositi o it'foteh e justii't, 1111d thutt the testimnony" si tak~en mary I.vre adt ll the trial, with
tile saute efi'et, "Ill sill)jeet to 'he s:uiie ibijectiis, "as ift'he
vituiess was prodcedt ; but the ctiurt revl' eqluire the party
making the application to state, ilim :lilavit, the evidenee
which lie vXlheeis to obtain ; and ift'he adverse pa ntY thereupon
adilit that lh evidence wouhl le giveil, :1id tliit it
be consider'ed aIs givellull oiith'ellll trial, or leI:aldl d
OV'IT'lhed aisi lpll', tile, trial liulst ]lilt betpo stlponed.
S j ,'c . 7 6 3.; N o : ldi l' lnl r e lt ml u sl t , u n l e s s Ib Y c' , n s e l t 'lie grainted for a p1 e'r iiit hogl il ' th:mi teli d:.s, ulpon tle ap-I plicatiln oIfei ther iarty, excep~lt II1)(011 condition tha;stuc party file an iunidertakil h ill :ll nin41nut fixed Iy the (0l' t1 ?Im'derta with twoi suretics, to be apillved lv tile Justice,t t tee
vtlket that they will pay to tle oj Ijitpsite lvtyi le aioiiti
oi'a lly jiidginit which Imayl be rcove'red agailst .lov part\
aiilviiig, nit exeeediiig tile suii Sliecifid ill the unidertakingf.
SEC. 761 t. Isstiear.is-e upon the pleadings, when i filet olr conclusion off law is im:aiiitaiiied bV uuie pad y anud -(oin troverted In tlt oitler. They are of two kinds: 1,
of law; and, 2, oI'fa ct.
SEC. 75. An issue t'l aw ar'ises itipn a deminrti to tile ttouuilaiut or alliswer, or toi te part tiltrel', Sic. 766i. An issi tf'ic t aiss: 1. Upou a material alhogatiin illth e e(-()lint troverted by tile anlswer ; alid,
2. It)on new matter iu the answer, except ii issue
of lIw isjoined thleretin.
SEC. 767. An issue of' law must be tried iy the elIoir. S-,t'. 768. An issue of' fit't must be tried : ul i, unless a jury is waived, ill which ease it olust ie tried by the (iiili't.
SEC. 769. A jury eiimriotiaus yst ub et wofa ived:i theuloket 1 . Bjy consent of par, ties) entered illt he docket 2. By" a fitilueri ' either party to dendl a jury
befire the toollllllluieitt ooft he t tin! oof an issue ifi flet;
3..By the failure of either party to .p)loar at the
time fixed for the trial of' ai issue of fliet.
SEc. 770. 1f' either party fitils to appear at the time
Ixedl for trial, the trial iii ay proceed at tile request of the
adverse party.
Sec. 771. The challenges are either perenp)tory, or
*a.7 1E. acl party is entit d to three perempt)(y
challeiges. Eitlvi party may challenge for case oii a y
groiis set forth as grounds fur sliic challenge in the di -
ritt coi rt. Challenges for caase must be tried lby the
Coil it.
SEC. 772. When the cause of' action (' counter
Of it r '
iiitroolcoVt'.O I :i 1'11('~i i i i tt~li i i~i'iiei ti te p
iient of' i ollon e tl e eou rt, at aNy timne bhefre the
trial, nay, by an tordueidre r his band, require the original
to le exihiited to the inspettction of" a a t'i))Y to be
fi'n'iisheod to the adverse parly, at such time a:s may be
fixed il the trder; or if', "lh ortder is not oee yed, the acoillit
or inst 'luiit eaintt Ie giveli in evidence.
SEC. 773. It'th e ttpe lainttmitle' ain' nex to phis complaint,
heet oi file with the.just:i a t the til, of iNlig.' the Si iliioiis,
heesig..t he origdinl, or 't o.N of' the promissoryV iott, bill (Ife'x -
t'liage, ti other written obhigai liof. the iaytint )f'
iioiiity, Upon whicl ti actitin is I'otglit, the det'fendat is
ti(,eutt to atliiit the 'rilliie ess tf, tht sigintilre of, the
iaiktrs, inholrstrs, or assignors thereof, uiht.s hte siet'ifitall"
deuiits tie samint in his atnswer, and veriftI thie answer
by his oathl.
SEC. 774. Judgments upon tonfessiiui im. ite en-
Confession. tereti uiji in any justice's court sietitiel in lhet't confession in
any amiount of which the justiec l,, juri.sditii.
SEC. 775. Judgment that tie actin be I ismisse
witlitut iriuie to a new at'titon, iiiay be entered, with
costs, ill the bllowiiig eases:
1. Wlien the plainltil vtuniitaiily dismisses the action
befire it is fiially submitted;
2. When hi fhils tt apear' at the time spetifittd iin
the snnmonS, tol at thle tiiie tto whiith (hae( tioi hi.S been
postptonedtt, (P Within one hour th(,rt(aier;
.3. Wiheu, after' a lemilr'er tt tile comphlaint has been
sustained, the plaintih' flails to auuent it within the tiiie
alltwed Ibyt\h e tourt;
.. WVhen it .s olijected at tile trial, antd allears liy
tili evidence that tile atioll is 1brought in tile wrong
tonity, or preciiet , or tity; but if' tile olbjettiton is t'ake
ait overruled, it is tailse onlv of' reversal on appe.l , antd
doC not iherwise invalidite tile judgment; if' not taken
at the trial, it, is waiived.
SEC. 776. When a trial hy a iury has leen hall, juhlg- j,,ment must 1ie enitcred by the jistice at once in cin foriirity with tie verdict.
SEC. 777. Whien the trial is Iby illc-ou rt, juidgment Iliust Ile entered at the close of the trial, or Ni itlhil two days thereafter.
SEC. 778. TIhie juii~dlgg mIi eI nt iinJ ustices' courts must I)C j entered I Iistaitially in the fori i required Ihy Secti n 518 o t C this Cile. Wh1 ih iludgilent is rendel-ed ill :a (,aSe ject where the di findaut is sulject to arrest and illirisiill ient
thereon, the fact that the defeind'nt is so sil)ject luist I),
stated il tihe ijudgment.
SEC. 779. Wlien the aniount ftmnnd due to either party exceeds the suin fbr which tile justice is authorized to enter judgment, stich party I lay ren it the exvcess, and
judgment may Ile redeed for the residue.
SEC. 780. If the defind:it, at any time lflre theOiff.trial, olei in writing to al)w jilldgillieiit to ile ta kei algainst hin fir a splciflie(d s1il, the plailltill iliay iiaiiiediately have
j.t Iginiei t therefoir, witlh the i ists then acrlued, 11it it' he
Iii.1 inot icept such oflr I)efrel the trial, and filtio recoiver
iil the action i sum ili exicss of the oflr, lie c,,lno t
i'C (i 'IiV (o.ists, int ci sts mu t I)t ai11lge 1 agaiiist hill. f'roi I
tie lime of, the iillcr, anid it'he recover, be dilieted Fi'om
his recovery. Blit the olli and i iliiire ti accel t it can
not Ile giveil ill evidence to afflict the recovery otherwise
than as to (osts.
SEC. 781. The justie mu. st tax and include in the jlignlilt, the ciists alloweld ly law to the prevailing party. judgmen..Si.,c. 782. Il( ,j istife, oil the deimaid of' a prty n ihe~fai 'r jIudgmnent, is rendiered, must give hii al iint.
histract of the judgmeiit ill Suihstantially the Iullowiiig
I'orin (filling hllnks accoirdiig to the flict):
Tlerritorv of' Utalh, Colllty of' .- 1)laintvis t.ll
- def'elialit, il jistice's court Jiusetiscrec -o, f the
l(.: ', ipreeiour ccti ty,- 188-, (insert date of' :ibstract)
Judgment entered for plaiiititl', (or defendait) Cli
-oi the---da of' , 188-. I certif'y that the
f'regoiilig is a ('iri'ect alstraet of' a j llgilielit rendered ill
said actioi ill iliy court, or (ais tile case may be) in the
court of- justice of' tile peace, as appeal's b~y hiis dlocket
now in Iiy possession as his successor in ofice.
SEC. 783. The abstract may be filed and docketed
in tile office of the district clerk of the judicial district ill
hi t thc iunent was rendered, and luist bie docketed
in the judgment doccet of the (istrict court thereof. The
tili'e of the receipt of' the abstract by the clerk must be noted by him thereon, and entered in the docket.
SEC. 784. From the time of the docketing in tile
district clerk's office, execution may be issued thereon Iy
the district clerk to the United States nimaishal, or to the
sheriff' of' any couity in the rerritory, where the same is
to be served, in the saeni manner and with like effllet as if'
issuel oil judgments of the district court.
SEC. 785. A judgment rendered ill justiees' court
Creates ao lien llupol any lands of the defendant, ules
Sii',h( al abstract is filed aied docketedl in the office of the ,lerk of' the district court, of the judicial district in whicli
the lands are situated; when so filed and docketed, sochi a
judgment is a lien upon the real property of the
jiidgment leltor, not exempt fi'om execution, situated ii
that aldicilistrict, fbr the period of five years from fthe
date of the judgment unless the judg'ienthe lpreviously
satisfied.
SEC. 790. Execution for the enforcecient of a jldgk.,
iiient of a justice's court, may be issued oil the application
of the party entitled thereto, "t any time within live yeas
f.romn the entry of' judgment.
SEC. 791. The execution when issued by a justice,
shall be directed to the sherifl; or to a onstiable of' the
.outy, and sulbscribed by the *jnstice by whon tihe judlgment'Nwas
rendered, or by his suclCessor in offhce. It sh1.l
intelligibly refir to the Judgiment, by stating the names I*f
tle partie.s, and the nane of' the justice lefoie whon, and
of' the conity and precinct where,'and the time when it was
rendered, the aiount of' the judgment, if' it be for ntoney,
alid it' ls thall the whole is (lle, the true amount di'u
thereon. ft mtilst contain, in like cases, similar directions t,
tile sherill'or onstal', as are required ill executions issueld
Fi'om the district ('hrt.
SEC. 792. An execution may, tit the request of the judgmnt creditor, be renewed befbre the expiration of the ti ine fixed for its return, by the vord " renewedi" written
thereon, with the date thereof id subscribed by the justice.
Such renewal has the eilc't of an original issue, and may
he repeatedt as often its necessary. If' an execution is retiued
unsatisfied, another may be afterwards issued.
SEC. 791. The sherill' or constabtle to whoitt the ex- vctitiolt is directed, nust exe(ite ti samne in the samell manner as the sheriff is retuiired to proceed upon executionsl
directe(l to hitm, antd the constable when the execution
is directed to him, is vested fbr that purpose with all
the power of' the sherilt.
SEC. 794. The pnrovisio ns of this Code aIs to pro- edings supplementary to execution in the district court, 'e app)licable to justices' courts, the necessary changes . iiile.
substittitions being made therein.
SEC. 800. A jiustiee imy ptunish, as toir contem)t, pers ons guilty of' the fbllowing acts, and no other: 1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insoleit behavior
toward the -uswtivcheii le holdiing court, tending to interrupt
tie dlI le icourse of' a trial or otheri judicial provecdiitg;
2. A Ireach of the iteace, boisterous conduct, or
violent (isturnice in the presence of' the justice, or in the
immediate vicinity of' the court held by him, tending to
interript the dic course of a trial or other Ju(icial ))I-()-
eeling;
. )iso edience or resistance to the executin of' 't
lawfil order or lprove.ss, made or issued by him;
4. Disobedience to a sibl),vil duly served, or t+''ii'siug,
to be sworn, or to almswcr is a witness;
J. Rescuing alty persont or property in the custo(dy
' i officer Iby viritue of' ali order or pro'cess of' the co' irt
held by hiih.
SEC. 801. Whn ;1 contempt is committe(l ili the imimiediate view and presence of' tie.justice, it ma 'vei p i l'. ... ihed summmna'ily; to that end ati order must le made
recit tintg thlipl icts, its they ove.ut'red, md adjudging that the
person proceded against is thereby guilty of contempt,
and that lie be punished as therein prescribed.
SEc. 802. When the contempt is not committed ini
the immediate view and1 presence of the justice, a warrant
of arrest niay be issued by such justice, on which the person
so guilty may he arrested and brought b)fore the justice
immediately, when an opportunity to bc heard in his defense
or excuse must be given. The justice may thereupon
discharge him, or may convict him of' the offinse.
SEC. 803. A justice may punish foir conteml)ts by
fhne or imprisonment, or both; such fine not to exceel in
any case one hundred dollars, and such iml)risounent
one (lay.
SEC. 804. The conviction, sp)eifying particularly
the ofiense and the judgment thereon, titist l)e entered by
the justice in his docket.
SEc. 805. Every justice must keep a book, denomicontain,
nated a "(locket," in which must be entered:
1. The title of every action or proceedii'ig;
2. The olject of' the action or procee(ling; and, if' a
stum of' money )e claimed, the amounit thereof;
3. The (late of the summons and the time of' its
return; and if' an order to arrest the defenlant l)e madE,
or a writ of attachment be issued, a statement of' the fhct;
4. The time when the parties, or either of them, aplear,
or their non-apparatnce, if' defatilt l)e made; a
milte of the pleadings and motions, if' in witing, reie'rring
to them; if not in writing, a concise statement of the
material parts of' the pleadings;
5. Every adjournment, stating on whose application,
and to what tiue;
6. The demand for a trial )y jury, when the samne is
made, and by whom made, the o c'rfdi er the jury, and the
time appointed for the return of the jury, and for the trial ;
7. The nanmes of the jurors who appear and are
swrnI, the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose
request;
8. The verdict of the jury and when received. If'
the jury disagree and are diseharged, the fact of such (isagreement
and discharge;
9. The judgment of' the court, spccif'ying the costs
included, anod the time when rendered;
10. The issuing of the execution, when issued, and to
whom; the renewals thereof, if' any, anti when made, and
a statement of' any money paid to the justice, and when
and by whom;
11. The receipt of it notice of appeal, if any be given,
and of the appeal bond, if any be filed.
SEC. 800. The several particlllars of the last section Entri:.specified imist be entered under the title of tile action to primarrcvidence
which they relate, and, unless otherwise in this Code pro- of vided, at the time when they occur. Such entries in a
justice's docket, or a traniscrIipt thereof, certified by the
justice, or his successor ill office, are primary evidence of
the flts so stated.
SEC. 807. A justice must keep an allambetical index
to his docket, in which nmust he entered the names of thedexAdpchkeatnetlcalo
parties to each judgment, with a refierence to the plage of enty. Ie lamioefs tile plaintitlM must i)e entered in the
index, in the al)habetical order of the first letter of' the
fhmily name.
SEc. 808. Every justice of' the peace, upoln tile cx- piration of' his term of office, must deposit with his sit1(- his official dol kets and ta ll papers filed in his oflice, as well his own as those of' his predeccessors or any other
which my be in his custody, to l)e kept as public records.
SEC. 809. If' tile office of a justice become vacant by his death, or removal f'om the precinct, or city, or other- wise, before his successor is elected and qualifiedl, tile docket and 1),cessor papers ill possession of such justice must le deposited in the office of some other justice in the precinct or city, to
be )y him delivered to the successor of such justice. If
there is no other justice ill the precinct or ci(y, then the
docket an( papers of' su(h justice must be depositcd in the
office of the comnty clerk of' the county, to be by him delivered
to the successor ill office of such justice.
SEC. 810. Any justice with whom the dho(ket of his predecessor or of another justice is deposited, has and may exercise over all actions and pr'oeeedings entered il sh docket, tile same jurisdictioni as if originally commenced before him. In case of the creation of a new county, or
the change of tile loundary between two counties, any justice
into whose hands tile docket of a justice formerly aeting
as such within the same territory may come, is for the
lirposes of this section, considered the successor of such
f'om'er justice.
SEc. 811. The justice elected or appointed to fill a vacancy, is tile successor of the justice whose office became aeant before the expiration of a full term. When I fal term expires, the same or another I)erson elected to take tie
office ill tile same )recinct or city, f'om that time is the
successor.
SEC. 812. When two or morm justices tre equally
clititled, under the last section, to be deelned tile succesors
oi, f, tle .justice, the iudge of the probate court foir
the coint" tiist, 1)y it certificalte SlIscrihed by him alld
liled in the oflice of' the county clerk, designate which
jistice is the successor of' a justice going out of' of'fice, or
whose office has become vacant.
SEC. 813. histices of' the peace ma111iSys ue st)il1nas
l illy actiot or lIroceCliug in the courts held by thenm, anld final lrotess otil lJyu dgment recovered therein, to ailly
part of' the coullty.
SEC. 814. The siltllllolls, execution, and every other
1 1per Imdll or issued In i justice, except, it sbl)viala, nlllist
su,.l e issuted without a bhlk to be filled by. :1tter, otherwise it is Voil.
SEC. 815. Justices of the peace must rceive from
the sheritl' or constabhl of' their (otlnt tillm flOl(eys collected
Oil ally prce'css or order issued fron their courts respectively,
and iisf pay the mle, till(a]ll lllOle!ys paid to them ill
their oflicial capalcity, over to the parties entitled or iutthorized
to receive them, without delay.
SEC. 816. lit ( ase of the sickiiess, or iotier (isahility, O1' llees**'y 'n~eloCf ' ii itustice' onl a l't'ttllnl ay tl ~-
oes o. at the tine apjpointed f'in' a tr'iaalll,ot her jtstice
of the same precinct or city, or lialdtj oinitg precinct of the
comity, Inay, at, his reqtuest, attentd it his behialf', aind thereup1l
isV ested with the power f1orth ie time being, of' the
jlstice before whom the sulinOnls was returnall,. In that,
case, tile propelr entry of' the proceedings bef'ore the attenldig
justice, stlbst''ibed by lim, must be made ill the docket
of tile justice before wlOll the s5tillnOllS WITs returnable.
If' tile ("ISO is wtdjotti'ied, the justice before whom tilhe sttn|-
mons was retu'n.able may restllle ju'isdiction.
SEC. 817. Justices of' the peace iay, ill till entses, require
a deposit of' nioney, Or till Itldertaking, its sectrli'tv
for" costs of court, befl)re issuing Itilmons.
SEC. 818. lhe prevalitg party ill justices' coutrts is
enititled to costs of' the action, and also of ally pt'ovecdiltgs
taken 1))' him ill aid of' an execution, issued upon1 anly
judgm|ent recovered therein.
SEC. 819. ftustices' courts being courts of' peculin •
and limited j'isdiction, only those provisions of this Code
which eare, ill their nature, 1pplicable to tile or'gatlivdtiott,
])owers ilad coi's of' pl'o(eedillgs ill justices' ctl'ts, o1
which have been lmade alhicaleby special lrov'isl' 1s in
this Code, are applicable to justices' courts .and the proceedings
thereinl.
SEC. 820. Ill all civil cases ais.i ill justices' courts, whiereiln all undertaking is required s l)r(. ribed in this Code, the plaintiff' or d finilt may deposit with Saiin jtstiee
a suim of' iloney equal to tie mioutit of tie reqtuired
undertaking, which may be received id held hy thejusicte
il l place or said( i l( iikc ri g.
TITLE XII.
AP..I'AI IN CII L, ACTIONS.
iAppr'als. in (",lie're.
v'ept Sw hje,nl' 8.ex2 l5p.r es"AlN , *M lajgdume efnitli aol, i -red1M V "Ieirne ar :ciivwil . ctsiI) o'ne:,x - WII~) ~j)lSll~l~YC i t~ I iII'beI5 l*QViN IPW S WCP- S(,rih((I in this ('ode and not otlrurwise. I,otice to tile ad\verse arty, llay he 'a'VltC(I OV 1(1ifie(I vithiout lativce, ]. tile jilgvi who Ildlle it, c r' illN$by vacated! lor lmloliiedl On notice, ill tin ltIUlllI' ill which o)the.rmlI otionls are1 Ill(e.
SEC. 827. A ny a)r ty aggriceed ity appeal ill t I (fists pirescribe(I in this (!ole. T ile l IImUr vl ing ii'' kInown Is the al)lel hat, a'InI the :l ver'." pa)rt' 11S tit( vesI i(lent.
SEC. 828. Alk appeal imay he taken to the suette ,ourt fromf tit( (isthvi t ou't 1. Fromi a f *inalg mtenit illn iacl tlio n r Specil pro- qceeditg (ollillitelned in tilte court ill. which thie salli, is rentiered,
withih olne vct-u' :ftcr the ciltry of, j tililit. lut
Ii exception to the decision or verdict, oti tile groind that
it is not Sup)orted by the evidee, catiliot be re'iewed Oln an
appeal Frnol lhe judgment, unless tile appeal is taken with in
sixty days afiet' tile reti iti of the judgment;
2. Frotti i judgmneit retdered o,, appeal f'rom an
inferior (ourt, within ninety days after the entry of* such
judgil3i.e tit;F'oin an order granting or reflusing a new trial,
fiom an order granting or dissolving an injunction, frolnlf.
all ot',lo' ref.ilsi tg to gralit or dissolve an ijitmetion, f'omti
a i on:r dissolvitg or t'ef's ing to dissolve ait attachtment,
fiom an order granting or refusing to grant a change of'
tile pice of' trial, f;rot i ally speeia otdet made afte,' final
jitdgment, auid f'om an inte'locutory judgmnt i a(tions
fot palrtition of' real p rope'ty, ad fro il ode' eonlfiiiing,
changitng, iiiodift'ing, or setting aside the reliort ill
whole l' itt part of' tile refeces ill actions ftr" the pat'titiot
of' real pro pemty, ill the cases mentioned i tile provisions
of tlmis Code relative to tie partition of' real p)roelrty ,
within sixty davys after tie order or intercltory judgment
is made and eitered iin the minutes of' the cor't, or filed
With the clerk.
SEC. 829. Aii appeal is taken lw filing with the
,I'rk of' the ,tiirt ill whii'ht the judgment otr order aipp)ealed
ft'oil is entered, a notite stating the appeal fioitt the saame,
or' s l . pe-c:i fie p art ]thet eofea'et d .StI.e r a1 ns i ilt' Iotice
ott tile atdve' se partv or his attone v.. Tie orde' of' service
is immaterial, b ut the appeal is iuefl'etiaf tfr an
lurpttse unless within five (lays fie'tc' se'vic'e of' the notice
of apiteal all un,,dertaking be filed, or I deposit of' iotiey
le made with the clerk, as hereitmufter provided, or tile
undertatking be waiveil by the adverse pa'ty ill writing.
SEC. 830. The ut il ertakinig on alpteal itit.st be in
writiing, ;iu1d tilist he executed oi the part itt' the appellat,
by at least two sie'ties to tile efleCt that tile aliltellant will
ty all lhattiages it ( co ists which l1ia.v be awaruded agaii st
Iit, tmi the jie'al, oi' ion a dislmissal "thirei'f, not exceeding
three hundred dollars; ort that sti iuist be deposited with
tile clerk with whoImi tlejuidgment o, order was eitered, to
abide the event of' tie appleal.
8 . It' tile appeal he f'i'om a .iudgiiieut (i,' or-
(let' directing the payment off' iitoiiev, it does not stay the gimlnt t Muho
execution of tie judgment or oi'(ei', unless a written tindertaking
le executed ol the ] art of' tie appellant by two
O1 ioire sureties, to the ef et tat they aire boumd in, double
the aitniott nailed ill the judgment or order; that if' tile
judgment or order appealed from, or any part thereof be
aifiried, or the appeal be dismissed, the appellant will pay
the alllotlit directed to be paid by the judgnlent or order,
or the part of such aualnt, as to which the judgment or
order is affirined, if' aflirinled only ii pirt, 111 l111d1 anmges
and costs which may be awarded against the appellant upon
the appeal, and that if tile appellant does not mke such
payment within thirty days after the filing of the remittitur
from the supreme court ill the colurt from which the
appeal is takeni, judgnent nmay be entered ol motion of'
the respondent, in his faIvor against tile sureties, for such
amount, together with tIle interest that may be due thereon,
fll(] the (lanlages anl costs which ntv be awarded against
the appellant umpom tle appeal. If tile judgment or order.
app)eled frol be fbr a greater amollit than two thousaid
(ollars, and the sureties do not state ill their affidavits of
juisti ficatioll accompanying the undertaking that they tire
each worth the Sili specified ill the undertaking, tile stipulltion
I~I~ 3y be that the judgment to be entered glint tie
.snretie's shall be fir s1ch amounts only as ill their affidavits
they may state they tre sevenully worth, and judgnlent
may be entered against tile sulreties by tile eol't firoml
which the appeal is takenl, ptlrsuant to the stiplations
herein designated. When the judgment or order appealed
from is made payable ill a speeified kind of money or elrreMIy,
tile judgment entered against tile sureties upon the
tidertalcinr nutist be made payable in the same kind of
money or eurrenmey.
SEC. 832. If' tle judgment or order appealed from direct tile assignment or delivery of' documents, or per- propertv, tile executiol of' tile judgment or order cannot lie staysel by appeal unlCs the things required to be
assigned or delivered be phlced ill tile custody of' such
offieer or receiver its the court or tile judge tiereof Mlay
ap)oint, or unless ill tundertaking be entered into o11 tile
part of the alppellant, with at least two sureties, and ill
sueh lumIlount as tile court, or the judge thereof may direct,
to tile eflbet that time appellant will obey tile order of' tile
apellate 'olrt llpOn the alpeal.
SEC. 833. If' the Judgment or oler appealedl fi'om, t , (ireet tile execution of' a conveyance 01 other instru' mn tile exec'ution of' the judgmeut or order wdullot be staved tle appeal until the instrumlent is executel amid deposiied
with time clerk with whom the judgment or order
is entered, to abide tile judgment of the l ppellate court.
SEC. 814. If tile judgment or order appeded from,
direct the sale or delive'v of possession of' real property,
the execution of' the saimie ianot be stayed unless d written
tidertakiig he execuited oil the ):irt of the appellhnt, with
two or more sureties, to the eflct, that duriiing the possessiol
of' stch prope'rty by the appelhint, lie will not commit,
Or stilir to be comuitt,,d, any waste thereon, and tdit if'
the .iliilglilent be aflirmed or the appeal dismiss(l, lie will
lay the value of the Ilse tin( oce(.l)ation of' the pro)erty
from the time of the appeal until the dlelivery of* the
lmsse4sioai the'eor , lIrsaant to the judgment or ortder,,not
ex(ceeding- I t o| l)e fixed by the judge of' the ('olrt by
whlich tle ljudglnent was rendered t', order made, 11114
w Iich must be Spe fledi ill the undertaking. When the
.juidgiemit is rith'e sile of mortgaged premises, and tie
payment of a t'fiiency arising upon the sale, the midertaking
must also provide for the pvinient of' suti deficiencv.
Sec. 815. \Whenever an appeal is pert'icted, as proigq
vided iinth e 1)releding sections of' this Chapter it stays
all f'irther proce'edii gs in the court below, upon the judgment
or order appealed firoii., Or Upon the matter embraced
therein; and releases f'om levy property whi il lIs beeii
levied l)in iider execution issued upon such judgimcit
Ibut the court Ielow may proeed uplm any other matter
em)raced iii the a'tin, and not afl ected I). tle 'der al-
l. .p ealed from. And the court below may, iini ts discretion,
itcdd isl)eise vith or linmit the seett'ity requir'd ly tli g Chapappellant
ex- ter, \v'len the alp)ellat is au execattol', administrator,
trt'stee, or othe' person a'ting in allothl"s right. A a
appeal loes liot ('otihitie il ftarce an attaclhment, nless aan
undertaking w. executed.and filed onith e part of tile appelhit,
h at lla.t two sureties, ill (lle the alntout of' the
debt ('ltii.-l y hill); that the alppdllt. will pay all c.ts
and daalage' i which the respolildent aity st'.4ill Iy 'easoi
(f the atttti(nIIIIlt, illc ase tile (ler of*. the tliirt below be
Stt4aiaied, and wuhe.%ithin twenty (lays ate' the entrv
of tle oldei' .p1la led 'mi, such appeal be (crild t('l.
SEC. 836. The undertakings prescrib l by Sections
83o 831, 832 and 83I 1a0, he ill one instrument '
several, at the option of' the appellhat.
SEC. 837. Tie adverse lparty il except to the sutll
- ficieiu v of' the st'i etiei to the miude ta 'lflm 's man tio ned il
g m i Sections 830, 8:11, 8:32, anid 83-1 at atny time within thirty
davs after tile filing of sith 1 underialin-s; and, Iniiess
th iy or other' sti'tie, withini twentv dIays afl't the applllant
has been served with notice of such exception, justify
before i. judge of the court below, or clerk thereof, upon
live d tIS notice to the respondent, of the time and place of
.pistificition, execution of the .julgiient order, or decree
alppealed from is 11o longer stayed ; 11111idn all (uses where
tilt undertaking is required on appteal by the provisions of'
this Chapter, It deposit ini the ourt below of the antotit
of' tile judgment apputded From, and tile three hundred
dolhur,'in ad lition, is eq1uivalent to filing the undertaking;
and in all cases tile undertaking or deposit Iny be waived
hty tl: ; ,-itteli consent if the respondent.
SEC. 818. [I) cases ntot. provided for ill Sections 831, 8:2, 8"33 ind.. 83-1, the petrflcting of' :III appeal by giving the undertaking, or lakilng the depo1sit mentioned ill Seetiol
831, stays irtocee(lings it' tile colurt below, Ulpon the
ju lgn tellt ir order aipealetd froIn, except where it directs
the saile of' ierisablle prolerty, ill which case tile elirt be.
Ilow 1illYt)' order tile lropertY to Ie stild lndI tlie procleeds
thereof' to he i isitetI to abide tile j udgi nent of' the alppiellate
coiurt. Atllt excep t, also, whei'e the order lri'lts, IIr
refi ses to grant a change of' the place of' trial of' tin
action.
SEC. 819. Onl appeaI fr on I finill juldgient the ap- pelhlit Ilist ftrnishl the court with a (,lpy of th• e notice of' the appeal, of the judgmeti roll, tlnI of anly bill of ,xe'- tiotis o(i statement ill tile case, Ilpotl whicel the appellntt
relies. Any statement used oi lotion for :i new trial, or
settled after' lecision oif ' such mtion, whitn the IitotiIt is
nmade uplon the ininutes of' thet colurt, I.- p~rovidedl it) Sm, -
tion 53'8, (ir' any bill of excieptionhs settled, as prvited ill
Scetiolls 525 iir 52, is tlsed oil mtion fbI' I new trial, miay
be used il appeal from .It final jutgmnlent IIlally as ltll appeal f'romn tile order granting oir r'ef'using tihe. new tr~ial.
SEC. 840. (On appleal |'rll it ,juld g menl t rendered oll :ill appleal , or fCrolnl aill or'der', excellt :III order granting 01, refsling it it'W tril, tile alppellant IntlIst f'urnish tile ittl't with It copy (f' tilet nIotice of tihte appeal, of' tle.juidg-
Illient or" ordler appleailed fi'lll, alllt oft' paptlers us.ed oill tile
ieal'i i thIle 'itll't helw.
SEC. 841. (On ilt llpea il f'rloil il| order gralitillgl' Or ref'usinihg II I l'aih l, tilte it pellit Ilist FtIl'nish the t'oilIir'tt with a copy of' tlth' itict of' lllleill, of' tile order alpihteitied f'rml nMi of' the paipri's designtt iii Seeec ti n 51 8 of t is Code.
SEC. 842. TI] tIo pit''.s provided fbr ill the last three se ctiolns' lil itlu t e 'tifhed to bie c e ec tl' bly the clerk or th e
attorneys, and must be accompanied with a certificate of
the elerl o' attorneys, that an undertaking oil ap eal, in
due fbrm, has been properly filed, or a stil ilation of the
parties waiving an undertaking.
SEC. 843. If' the appellat foils to fn'uish the requi-
hiesn- site papers, the appeal may be dismissed ; but nio appeal
icabne dimissed f'or insutlie'ieney of' the undertaking thereon,
if' a good and suflicienit undertaking, approved by a
.ustiee of' the supreme court, lie filed in tile sIprl'ele ('oil't
hetbore the hearing uonli lotion to dismiss tlie appeal.
SEC. 814. The dismissal of' an appeal is ill efl'ct tiii
afhuim ane of the Judgment or order appealed from, nilless
the dismissal is expressly made without lirjudi'e to anjother
appeal.
SEC. 815. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the
oil't lay review the verdict or decisioni, or any inte'-
mediate order, if' excepted to, which, involves tile )merits or
Iie'es,-uril.v aikbets tile judgment, excepit a decision or or'er
Front whiclhl a appeal iight have Ib et tikeit
Sec. 816. len tile judi ie nt ()r order is reverst
oii, t i pellate court miav make m plete ,'estititioll
of' all property and rights lost I y til el'r ollos j ndg-
Inelit or (io'ter, so fil'. as tile restitution is conisistent with
protection of' li rehaser of property at a sale ordered 1iy
tle jud(lgiiien t 01'1 had iiiilet process issmued upoll tit' judgment
on the appea from whic tile lrocedings were not
stayed; and fo r relief' in s(tc cases, tlit aipellant Oay. have
his action against tile respil(eit ehar'itig the .Ju(Ignleit.
fir the proceeds of the sale of the i(property, after deducting
therefrom the expenses of tite sale. When it appears to
the appelhte court that the appeal was iade for delaIy, it
may add to tile cost such damag:sis may be just.
SEC. 817. \\Ihen j idginen t is ,'eiler'd1 upon tile aji-
peal, it mlusit be certified by the 'lek of' ti l 'Mirlelei e 'our t
to the clerk with whom the jidgient ioll is filed, or the
order appealed Fromix is entered. II! eases of appeal troni
the judgment, the clerk with wholl tile roll is filed must
attach the eertifite to tile jiutlgmIent r'oll, aI(] ente' a1
miliite of' the Judgneit of' the suprenme ourt on tile docket
:tgainst the original entry. Ini eases of' appeal f'rom it
trm'er, the tlerk must enter at length ill the rev'ords of' tie
court tile Certificte received, and minute against the entry
of' the order apipealed from, a reference to the certificate,
with xi brief' sl.telment that such order has been afi rlleti,
reversed, or modified, by the supreme Court oil appeal.
SEC. 852. A new trial 1ii:) , be granted by the Wju.tice, oi motion, within ten days tlfhie entry of'.judIgment, ma.for aly of' tile following clls:es
1. At.ident or surprise, whih ornihliiry pridence
o ld n ot have gia l(ed l i lst;
2. lExcessive (amages, illyeriilg to have 1ieil given
raider the iilneliece of' passiol;
.3. [iislii.ieicy of, the evidce to .1u1stify\ the vrdict
or other decision;
4. Newly discovered evidence mati('l for the pian rty
makilng the apI)li(ntioll, wihi(h hi (oulh not with reasolnalble
diligence have disoverel a1n d ir odued It tile time.
SEC. 853. Thea li('ati on S1,1ll Ibe i hadiie, 1 afli - Apiicatio.davit aind notice. Tile a flidavit Si1:11 be. filel with ti . us ..........
tice, with a statement of, the groiiiods upol which the paity
inteis to rely. The ad vers, pa rty mamuys e (outer :a lidavits
on the motion, provided they are filed one day previous
to tile hearing of the motion.
SEC. 851. Any party dis' atisfie(d with a Ju(lgment rendered ill a .i1 f 1u. t f•i ces C~M r ': tItn,,Aw,district court o* te h owri th iitny thwirhteyre d ayth)se a jfltge:mr teilne t rew nadsi tiorne ileofr'e Jiul,d gamt enatl.y tTilhee
aiplp(al shall e tkCen hy filing t notiuc thre'of, with the
justice, 'and 5Cr'iIg i ('Or y ()l tiil( adverse l'tyV.
SEC. 855. All (,alses 11)(1aled to the (listrict (,ouli't
slhall lie'ard anew ill sid court, il(] saul ort i1aV l,'cgi- late hyI lrlle tie practice ill suich (ises, in all resppec ts5 ot l)roviled foih ly sttilte.
SEC. 846. Ul ol) receiving the notice of appeal, and oil payment of the fees (f' the justice, fbi mlking tie transcriplt and1(1 filing ill midelrtaking as requiredl ill the next Stction, tile justice Shall, within live (lays, trill'it
to tile (,hl k uf, te district c'otrt a 'ertified (coly of* his
(IoCket, t)(' plead ings, atll liotices, notio 1s and uother lImrs
filed ill tile (-.se, ti Il otei' C of' lIl e l 111(1 i (lert king
filed; and the justice miy be (Omlpelled by the (li.strit
cort, )i", . 11 ordler' enteredl 111)(0I1t mlo(tion initrllsinit slielh arnde, Illv Ibe filled Al.r livh'tt or, retfi.sad to trallsilit
the ~ .~ \ ~CT ;~lt i fied CDI"~ O)fN' . u' Ch 0or4T4 111Hy be S.V\'d On
the sicite , b~y tie party 'OV his thol'l(.N. III the ditrit
cut either party reIlt\ ° hatve tllst- Ibelefitof al t le"Ill ,,l~i4cvti
ol ,s ra die i l l t he " "ls' i c o rt
bev11-ia or'1I uroerIlds :l udrtkngb fld
wi th in fi v etd a v. alle r fi li ll ", ilh e n oti e (d. 't1 1p e al, w ith t wo '
OV IlI'I1 siretie.s, ill the( .uil (it' one hundre;d do llars', Cor
the paivilt 01' the cos. oinlt hs l ppel, or if'ta taty ofl' pro-
.eeding.; hb, claimed, in .1 .i il ellull t,, hv\ic' the : Illlllt of'
jhil d"'Ilt'n , i (-l.!sut.s ,< w hl, ilhe .uiml lent is for
i f, < -p yv mIn e nt (t, ' I , ,t lo , y ,, 1' t w i ce <i lh t, (I f'<i' l t p roe Ny 1,
s p ec i 'f<i c I l, r .,. a' l r, pHIn .N, al od shal lI 1l( , t o ih ,l l . ik( t, wh en
ilh( atlion i.s I'll tile revov.Y ofri\'r oev, that the plailitill'
will payNti e' :mllolt ,f the,.jildi livl 'aplptahd f-o,:amd '11l
c os ts ,, it' ti le ap p l d b~e wit\ h l d l tw il or d i sm i s.se d , or ti le
m u~tm . I ' , ildg-Ille t, and .1lvl., ,ts tH I lmt av be rv-
COVVd 'erm .z-tillt him il said ac<tion ill tie dist rit cour't.
\\hel ilhe :ctilm is For the recovxer ,v of,' ..pevilhi pe'rsonal
lrprli, the undertalking .sIall hb, to'th~e vilect thill( :alp-
1)t.lhmlt will pa .N• the.jil~d-',meIt anod co-:l.pplel(l fiT'm, 'ald
Obhvv the order of .i'hle '-m't In terill, i, the, appeal bv,
w i l d r aw~ n or d i s mi Is s e.d , or) w i l l Ipa -"v i h l( ai l o l t ol' al ly
.jiujllm.. ;m1,j1 1e-o1 wh 111ihe ' l,- ( -o'\-en-ed ;Ilri.lS him ill
..,aid acttion ill thl( di.tric't ,'im't, "and wrill ohb, :11y. rdehr b.\
ill,(, vo,,it tlheretin. The linhvi-takin. hall Ik, ac.oimlmilu
1,)" the( allidahtsl (X the sliretivs, thatt th('e" resnidents of'"
111v v',,lity, all] re vaceh w rll the ailloil l .,.ilie, l il lhe,
I ,,,hde' t' k i l', ow ,v 'r a n d a \'o, al l t e r i~ d eh t. a nd li'abilities,
exc.hisise (W' lro]p-rNy exemlpt fl'lm vXvv.tioll. Trhe
adv\ers.e iart-N I:lla , ]towvvi', exc'ept to the, .,.lifieic .\v 4f1
the sile ti s , wi th in t wo 'd ' v s fite t ilh e flilu . Of.t h e Illd er -
t:diI, , :atkn d e: ts1 l " or' ther st ctic.; .insik " bvl'ore the
. i,, ti .t F,',rm wh os e. co, ur t t h e a pp ea l ,:i s t ak ~le , w ith in l t wo '
d , 'v.s ,O,r e a f' vi,r up o n n oit c'ei ,, ti le aol ve'r s e,i ar l \ , ti h ll p wl
. sh al l hb , r ,c' ld, ed, as .i t' n o 11 I d vr .t ak i l wh ad el l~ ' i \ ' en, . A
dh vp )l i t ,, ' ilh e al li oll lt u f i ' j,u d z , ltl vl p p al d fir oml , in -
c.lidil,- :11l costsl., or the ali Ofl'lu' e lwl'rty and all
c os lt s , i l l a ct< i o n s.f or t i le r e vo' ve\ r \* y it' . p e .if i v.p er s o n alm p r op -
c.tr Y , wil\ h t h e -.Jl l(,, t i ce , , sh al lm b et eq uH i v alenh t to t i le fillin gz of'
i ., Illd e.rItakl l, i ll t h~si . e't i o,, me n~ti,,n ed ; al td i ll , ttt ih
ca ~ l.(h, . u, ti ce s.hal l Iro nl aili th e Illol \" t o tie clher k, Of,
thIe dis trict eoti't, to* be by him pa:idl otit oil the. ,orhr( W"
tile court. Si,'(,. 8,58. Il i executioll bV iS.SI ,d,0II th ill(' (Wi the 1lliertak lg, staving :III Ilr eedil..., tlle jl stiv'' '41l,11 1, .1 1 by ONhN', i,.tth tl er to Ss a t l1l l~lmo,,! edhll r on the(,
salt'. Slid) ofli.ep illut, 1l11 "Ip ll\ -itl.,t I&f his t'ves For
:1l 'erv'iv'reesn dered oi ti exevition tllnl n relie.lis-h l-oper-tv h.evied upll , anld deliver the salne to tbe
.jl l ' : n (1( - ht o~ , h ltr -jt q w i th l l 11i Ij o !vt 1I S h( tf , ol l
saleOst h 1, nvise. It' h. l h e lnt pai d, t].w officer 111. N*
r et a i n l s o 11 1 1 c h o f th e p r op e ry't or p r o v.eed . tlh er vo t a 11 1 :' ) ,
TITLE XIV.
, . ,.BG\:' he :j.udgment is reco.verct] :wai, ,n 8B08 . ilWligllile~lltI ~' rI''I4Vt'l('II igoilSs 1111-
•? (Wi- a Ilolep ermIis& sev j~ liti inlubed lpol 1: o,,,"i-! \were nol t t ri dl' 1 y ,lrlv\ %iti ill lh i . 1nil Jlllilol t itdI .....
apiwar to lh- ac't i4Il, lmNy be ,u mllmle to Showv c.alse \\h V
he\" sho.ul nt be boud hb. the, .ldgmnt ill the salliv
IMIIIInllr :Is thll lh the\"]h ad beeu orilrinadly served withl tll(.
S EC.. 8 6- 1. T he s ti ~ ll)i n , a s.p r~ o vi dh ed i l l tl l (, ] II A S( ' - th ol, u n list d e svi~h e)(th e .j ud glm e n! 'a nd n ,'lq ui re th e Ipe rs 'o Slil1il110111 t o h ow cia\V(lls.e \\'IVN he sho.uld limt[ ])(I bound] b)v- it, a ndl( m u st. b c. ,e r v ved ill t11w ,,. i l 1:1 II l I a lld r tt 'ill ~hb af
withhll the :ali thole as dlv orig'ina u mmollns. It is not
II.4'' ' :1'I 1S S:o fllh! a liew conlplnlhlt.
SEC. 865. The summons may be accompanied by an
aflidavit of the plaintiff, his agent, representative or attor-
ney, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains
unsatisfied, and must specify the a nount dti thereon.
SEC. 866. Upon such summons, the defendant may
answer %;ithin the time specified therein, denying the judg-
nient, or setting uip any defense which may have arisen
subsequently, or he may deny his liability on the obligation
upon which the judgment was recovered, except a
discharge from such liability )y the statute of limutations.
SEC. 867. If the (Iefin(lant, in his answer, deny the
judgmnt, or set up fny defense which may have arisen
subsequently, the summons, with the aildavit annexed, and
tile answer, constitute the written allegations in the case;
if lie deny his liability on the obligation upon which the
judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint
and utlgmieiit, the sunumr ois, wvith the alidavit annexed,
and the answer, constitute such written allegations.
SEC. 868. The issues formed may be tried as in
other cases, but when the defendant (lenies, in his answer,
any liability on the obligation iiponi whieh the judgment
was rendered, if a verdict Ibe found against him, it must be
for nt)t exceeding the amount remaining unsatislied on such
original judgment, with interest thereon.
CHAPTER II.
Qffer of Defendant to Comqromise.
SEC. 872. The defendant in any action may at any
time before the trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintiff
an otlLr to allow judgment to be taken against him for tile
sum or l)roperty, or to the eltect therein specified. If the
plaintiff accept the offer, and give notice thereof within
live days, he may file the offer, with proof of notice of
accel)tance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment
accordhingly. If the notice of aceltance be not given, the
ofk'r is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be givei in
evi(lence upon the trial; and if'th e plaintiff fail to obtaii
a mre favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but
mast pay the defendant's costs from the time of thie offer.
CHAPTER II.
Inspection of t15riting..
Sec. 877. Any court in which an actioi. is pending, or a judge thereof, may, UO1 notice, order either party to give 'to the other within a spceified time, i copy, or per- abnodk mission to take a copy, of entries of accounts in any book,
or of any document or paper in his possession, or under his
control, containing business accounts or transactions of a
peccuniary character relating to thi merits of the action, or
the defense therein. If coinpliance with the order be refused,
the court may exclude the entries of' accounts, of the
book, or the document or paper from being given in evidence,
or if' wanted as evidence by the party applying, may
direct the jury to presume them to he such as he alleges
them to be; and the court may also punish tile party refising
for a contempt. This section is not to be construed to
prevent a party from compelling another to produce hooks,
papers, or documents when lie is examined as a witness.
CHAPTER IV.
Motlon, Cnid Ordcr,.
SEC. 882. In rtieteEmdv ven;r" ~y nd irencot ion of a court or judge made or entered in wrin, and not included in t judgment, .iS t0ioj an order. An alpl)i(atiol for an order is '
motion.
SEC. 883. Motions must be made in the court in Cort which the action is pendlng. Orders imade out of court a,may be made by the ju(lge of the court in any part of' the
Territory.
SEC. 884. When a written notice of a motion is re- N,,(pired by this Code, or by a rule of tie supreme or dis- 'trict court, it must bie given, if the court be held in the
same county, with both parties, five days before the time
appointedl for the hearing; otherwise, ten days. When the
notice is served by mail, the mumber of d'ays before the
hearimig must be increased one day for ever twenty-five
40
miles of distance between the place of deposit and tie l)ae
of service; such increase, however, not to exceed ill all
thirty days; but in all cases the court, or a judge thereof,
may prescribe a shorter time.
SeC. 885. Wheni a notice of motion is given, or an
a ordler to show cause is made returnable, beibre a judge out of court, andi at the time fixed fbr the motion, or on the
return day of' the order, the judge is unable to hear the
l)artite, the matter shall stanl ciointinued until the further
order of the court or judge, or it may be transtrrretl by his
order to some other jiudge.
SEC. 886. Whenever fll order for the pavnint of a 'stuni of' money is made by a court, or judge thereof', pi.-
siant to the provisions of this Cotle, it may be enforced by
execution in the same manner as if it were a judgment.
SEC. 891. Notices must lie in writing, and notices
and other papers may lie served )pon the party or attorney
in the manner prescribed inl this Chapter, when not
,ttherwise provided by this Code.
SEC. 892. The service may bW )eronal, Ib deliver-
il,, to the party or attorney oi wlion tile service is re(uired
to be made, or it niiy lie as follows:
1. If' upoI ill attorney it, may e made di'ing his
abence ftiom his office, by leaving the notice 1 other
lpen, with his clerk therein, or with a person having
(,hi'ge thereof; or when there is no person in the oflice, by
leaving them, between the hours of eight ill the mni'nimg
'and six in tile afternoon, ill a conspicuous phce in tile office;
or if' it lie not open sot as to adiiit of' such service, then by
leaving them at the attorney's residence, with some l)erso'
of' suitable age and discretion; and if his residence le not
kitown, then Iy ltting the samile, inclosed in ain nvelole,
into the I)s.t qlice directed to such attorl( y;
2. If' upon a party, it niay be made by leaving
the notice or otheIr aper at his resi(dien(ce, 1etween tie hour'
of eight ill the ilornling 111(d six ill the evening, with some
person ofi suitable age :ro(1 discretion ; and if' his residence
be not known, by putting the same, inclose I in an envelope,
into the post oflice (lirceted to such party.
SEC. 893. Service by mail may be made where the person inaking tile service, and tie person oil whon it is to be made, reside or have their offices in diffibrent
places, between which there is t regular comnni icntion
by antil.
SEC. 894. In cise of' service by mail the notice or other paper must be deposited in the post office, atldressed to tile lerson on whom it is to be served, at his office or pilace
of' residence, and the postage paid. The service is conpletet
at the time of' th deposit, but if' within it given
nUnlber of days after such service a right may be exercised,
or an act is to he done Iy the adverse party, tile time within
which suchl right may be exercised or act lbe done is cx- tended one day fir every twenty-five miles distance between
the place of' deposit and tile pl'we of address; such
extension, h awever, not to ex ceed thirty days in nil.
SEC. 895. A (lelcndant appears ill an action wien he answers, (enuirs, or gives tile pllintifl written notice of. his apl)eraince, or when an attorney gives notice of' l)-
pearanee fbr him. After apilon-ance, a defn(dant or his
attorney is entitle(d to notice of' all subsequent proceedings
of' which notice is required to be given. But where a
def'eIhlt his not al)peare(, servi(e of' notice or papers
need not be made upon him unless lie is imprisoned ftr
want of bail.
SEc. 896. When a plaintill' or a defbndajt, who has ppecared, resides out or' the Territory, and has no attorney in the action or proceeding, the service amy be made on thie clerk fbr him. But ill all (Ilsesw here a party hasS s1e1r1v attorney in the aetion or proceeding, tile service o papers whiemn required, must be uo)n tile attorney iistead of' the
party, exceplt of' suilp(enas, of' writs, and other process
issued in tie suit, an1d t' ioa pers to bring hiiu i into con -
tenipt.
SEC. 897. The freg ting pWovisions of this ChIapter do not apply to the servie of' i stummons or other lpocess, or of ai" paper to bring it. party into crllitemll)t.
SEC. 898. A.mv sum mmonis, writ, or Orler, in ainy civil suit or proceeding, aid all other i:l ers reqiring service Inmy be tralnsm ittel bV telegrapli for service ill amy )ace,
ill tile telermphic ('ol)\ of' slilh writ r order, or paper so
triansnlitte nmi V Ibe ser'cId or exevulted 1)v the oil icers c.
])Ceoll to whom it is selit f0- that pllrpose, :1n1d returned I)v
hiint, if' Ilm" retllrn ie reqlui.site, in the s amtte im:1amer, :an;
with the same force and efhect, inf all respects, as the originid
thereof might be delivered to him, and the officer or
person serving or executing the same has the same aithority,
and is sbiiject. to the same liablities, as if the copy
were the original. The original, when a writ, or order,
must also l)e filed in the court from which it ws issued
an( a certified copy thereof must be prserved in the telegraph
office from which it was sent. In sending it, either
the original or theertified copy may be used by the operator
for that purpose. Whenever alay document to be sent
by telegraph bears a seal either private or official, it is not
inecessary fbr the operator, in sqnding the same, to telegraph
a description of the seal, or liiiy words or device
thereon, but the stme 11a1'b e expressed in the telegraphic
copy by the letters 'IL S " or by tile word ''seal."

SEC. 903. The measure and mode of' compensation
of attorneys and counselors at law is left to tile agreement,
cxpress 01'inp1lied, of' tile iarties; but partie's to action or
proeeimgs are entitled to costs and disbursements, as hereinafter
provided.
SEc. 904. Costs are allowed of course to the plain-
tiff, upon a judgment in his fivor in the following eases:
I . fI an action for the recovery of real property;
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal
1 roperty where the value of' the property amounts to one
hundredi dollars or over, such value shall be determined by
the jury, court or referee by whom the action is tried;
3. In an action for tile recovery of money or damages,
when iplaintifl recovers one umdreil dollars or over;
4. Ini special proceeding;
5. fin in actitlm which involves tile title or possession
of real cstate, or the legality of lily tax, immpost, assessment,
toll, o~r municipal tine.
SEC. 905. W)h ep n o seiv esr arl actions fre brought on one
id, undertaking, pronissory note, bill of' exchange, or
other instrlulllt ill writing,t r ill ylilo ther ease for the ,01tl
oe. same cause of aecon, against several parties who might
have been joined itsde fendants in the sume action, no.c osts
can be allowed to the plaintiff in more than one of such
actions, which may be at his election, if the party proceeded
against in the other actions were at the commencenient
of the previous action openly within this Territory.
But tle dislrseinents of the plaintiff must be allowed to
him in each action.
SEC. 906. Costs must he allowil of course to the upon a judgment in his fhvor in the action men.an-tioned in Section fJ04 and in special proceedings. 

SEC. 907. In other actions than those ientioned in Cost-, Section 904, costs may be allowed or not, and, if allowed, t, may be apportioncil between the parties, on the same or
adverse sides, ill tile discretion of the court, but no costs
can be allowed i) fill action for the recovery of' money or
damages, when the plaintiff recovers less than one hundred
dollars, nor in all action to recover the ptssession of personlal
prop)erty, wheni the value of the property is less thain
one huhndre dollars.
SEC. 908. When there are several defendants in the actions mentioned ill Section 904 not united inl interest, tid I ,,I t1 Ilaklng separte defenses, by separate answers, and tie plaintif' fails to recover judgment against all, the court nmist award costs to such of tile defendants as have judgment
ill their iavor.
SEC. 909. In all cases tried in the district court, oIl al)peal, costs must be awarded to the prevailing lrty. 

SEc. 910. The fees of referees are five dollars to each, for every day spent i21 the business of' the ri'erence;
but tile parties may agree in writing upon any other rate of'
compensation, and thereupon, such rate shall be allowed.
SEC. 911. Whenin application is Illade to a court or referee to postpone a trial, the payment of costs occa- sioned by the postponlment, may be imposed in the dis- cretion of' tile court or referee, as a condition of' granting
the same.
SEC. 912. When ill ain action for the recovery of. money only, the defendant alleges ill his answer that 1lebore the commencement of' the action, Ihe tendered to tile llaintill' the full aniount to which lie w~is entitled, and thereupon
deposits ill court, tr the pllaintill ', the amount so tendered,
and the allegation be found to be true, the plaintiff" (nnot
recover costs, but must pay costs to the defC'ndant.
SEc. 913. In an action prosecuted or defended In an executor, administrator, truistee o' express trust, ' a exp ressly authorized by statute, costs may be re-
covered Its ill aictionis by, 1111d1 againSt, a Il)CrSp0riO SCetltiing
or def'ndiing illhi s own right; but such costs 1111st, by the
judgment, be muade ehargeable only upon the estate, feid,
or party relresente(d, unless the coii't direc'ts the same to
be pai(I lw) the plhintifl' or dentlaiht, pers;onally, foir mismanagement
or hal fidth in the action or diefense.
SEC. 914. When tile decision of a cotirt of inifbrior
is..1. :dietLion, inI special lroeeccling, is broltght heflore i
court of higher jurisdiction, for a review, illlly other
way th,aI n Iya ppe-l, the slille costs iuilust he allow(d lisi ll
eas(es on ailmleil, and may be 'ollectC(l by exec'utioln, or ill
such mianer aI r the colrt ililay (irect, accordiig to the
ltltre of, the ease.
SEC. 915. The p il l hs flVO" .i, lgl[ent.
andaffidaMviiltd ewed, and who elaiims ls costs, must deliver to the
costs.el erk, and serve i copy ulon the adverse party, within live
days after the verdict or liotice of thle deiei.ion (f tile
coulrt or rel'b'ee, or, if' tile e try (of' the judgi en t oilite
verdict or decision he stayed, then befire si(.h entry is
iadie Ia iiiemnoraindumhll1 of' the itelis of' his t sts adl in(eessar'
dis nrisenients ill the action or prn eedtiig, which
ll eliOa I id lii liust. 1 e 'erifled I) " tile oath of tiIe party, or'
his ljttorlev or ieit lirb y the ('lerk ft'hi s atto'ne,
statinig that to the hest of' his k iowledge and belief; the
iteiis are 'orl'Ce(t, atnd that the (lisblirs-emnits hailve ibeen
ieeesii Iv ii l(turr(l illti le aetion or piro(.ee hingr A ]I rtv
dissatisfi d with tie costs Claimed, nay, withill live days
after int ie of filing of' hill of' c. sts, file :i motion to have
tile same taxed Iby the coui't ill whiiell tle idgielt was
renderedcl, or by the .J1i(lge there'of at ellIilliter.
SEC. 916. Wheinever costs are awa'ded to .i party
i)V 1iil )ieilate (ouret, if' lie claims such costs, lie nitst, \within thiirty days after the reillittitln' is filed with the
cler'k 1)ehlw, deliver to su('h clerk a ieno rimiin of' his
(,ots v'erifi'I as )res eril)el by tile pre('cedinhg section, and
therealiter lie maI? have a ii.x(el.ti on thiereflor as ill i a
lit gii ll t.
SEC. 917. The ('l('rk lust inel I mde in the ,judgmeit
entered ii) I y hint, any in terest otil i e verdict 01' detisi on
of' the couit't fithI time it was rendered or madle' , anl
the c(o.st), it'ti le sanle hai'e I[en taxedl or asertained, and
lit niustiw itill two (ayYs after the Samqiairee taxed or
als('e'taiiied, if' not h'1ide ill tile jldgllent, inusert tit'
Saille in a llink, left ill tie judglieit fir tlh:It rlirtse, 'and
ii1iiA make a similar iiisertioii of the costs ili tile copies
and dto(,ket if' thejIu dgintit.
SEC. 918. When the plaintiff in an action residics
out of' the Territory, or is a foreign corporation, securiy for the costs and charges which may he awarded aptinst
such lplaintifl may be required by the delcnl(ant. Wlhen
requiril, all proceedings in the ation must he stayed until
an undertaking, executed by two or more persons, is filCd
with the clerk, to the eiffet that. thiey will pay such costs
awl charges as naiy be awarded against the plailtifi, by
judgment, or in the progress of' the zictioi, not exceeding
the sun of* three liiuchfre dollars. A new or ai additioml
undertaking may be ordered by the court, or judge, upon
proof that the origina Iit ulertakiiig is i stilliciet, security,
a 1(1 Iroceedings iin the acttion stayed until such new or
tditiol II ucdertadking is execunted and filed.
SEC. 919. After the lapse of' thirty days f'rom the service of notice that secil'ity i:ct nired, or of 'n order 1or Itew or additional seeurity, Uln proof' thereof', a1d illat no tiideritak ing, as requ ired, Ihas beei filed, fit(. court,
or judge, ,Imly order tile aetion to be disiiised.
SEC. 920. \When the Territory is a party, and costs ::re awarded against it, they iiic't hi) paid out, of' the Terri- torial treasury, and the auditor shicll draw his warrant
thereloi oi tle general Fund.
SEC. 921. When a comiiitv is" t party, aiicl costs are aw r g e istit e awnred :ga iist it, t hey iiist be Ipid out of' tile eC0i lty treasiry.
t h(weral Provisions.
sEC. 926. Ilf' aii original pleading or pawr be lost, th e con rt a v alithcl:ize it 'oj y thereof to be filed II I used instead (If' tlie origi nal
SEC. 927. An aflida v it, notice, or thi l mper \ itlIS- tile title of tile action or proceeedilng in which it was or with a defective title, is as valid a1 eflectual fbi' any lirlpose as if' duly entitled, if' it intelligibly e'r i. to
such action o pi' ceediig.
sEC. 928. Suc'ecssi'e actionls may bI, inciitained apoi tI s:clit conllt rtt ()I" t'aa nt(0I{ wheiiever ile i' the ac,tlilllel)' , 1 If(\('\- c ~ q ll :'( {cion) arises thlelef'rOll),
SEC. 929. Whenever two or more actions are pendseveral
ing at one time between the same piarties, and(] in the same
court upon causes of action which might have b)een joined,
the court may order the actions to le consolidated.
SEc. 930. An action is deemed to be pending from
the time of its commencement until its final determination
upon appeal, or until the time for appeal has passed,
unless the judligment is sooner satisfied.
SEC. 931. An action may be brought by one person
against another for the purpose of determining tin tlverse P
elim, which the latter makes against the Cormer fbr money
or property upon an alleged obligation; and also against
two or more persons, for the purpose of comeiling one to
satisfy a debt due to the other, for which tile plaintitt ' is
)onll as a surety.
SEC. 932. Oil the trial of an actioni in a court of
record, if there is iio short-hand reporter of the court in
attendaince, the court may re(quire the clerk to take down
the testimony in writing.
SEC. 933. The clerk must keep among the records of
tie court, a register of actions. lie must enter therein the title of the action, with brief notes under it, from time to
time, of all papers filed and proceedings had therein.
SEC. 934. When there atre three referees, or three
act.IaYritntors, till must meet, but two of them may do iiy act
which might be done by all.
SEc. 935. When an act to be done ts )rovided in
this Code, relates to the pleadings in the action, or the
uindertakings to be filed, or the jiistification of suireties, or
the preplartion of statements, or bills of excel)tiol or of
amendments thereto, or to the service ot' notices, other than
of appeal, the time allowed )y this Code may be extended,
upon good cause shown, by the court ill which the action is
pendiiig, or a judge thereof
SEc. 936. If an action is brought against a sheriff
for :m act done by virtue of his oflice, and lie give written
notice thereof to the sureties on any bond of indemnity
receive(] by him, the jlgment recovered therein is conelusive
evi~lence of his right to recover against such sureties;
aild tile court, or judge, ill vacation, may, on ulotioll,
1pon notice of live days, order Judgment to be entered up
against them for the amount so recovered, including costs.
SEC. 937. In all mses where an umdertauking, with
sureties, is req uired by tile provisions of this Code, the
oflicer taking the same inuist require the sureties to accompany
it with tiil affidavit that they tire teh residents aid
householders or freeholders within the Territory, and are
each worth the sum specified iii the undertakinlg, over and
above all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution; Ijut when the amount specifileind
the undertaking exceeds two thousand dollars, and
there are more than two sureties thereon, they may state in
their aflidavits that they are severally worth amounts less
than that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole
amount be equivalent to that of two sulicient sureties.
SEC. 938. In any civil action or procceding whercin the Territory or the leol)le of the Territory is a party plaintiff; or any Territorial oflicer, in his oflicial uapulity,
or on behalf of the Territory, or any county, or city, is a
party plaintiff or defendant, no bond, written undertaking,
or security can be requireil of the Territory, or the people
thereof, or iny officer thereof, or of any coUnty, or city,
but on conplying with the other provisions of this Code,
the Territory or the people thereof, or any Territorial
officer acting in his official mpacity, or any county or city,
have the same rights, remedies, anil benefits, as if the bond,
undertaking, or security were given and approved as required
by this Code.
SEC. 939. Whenever any surety on an iundertaking on ap)peal executeil to stay l)!mocc~ings Ul)01 a money *u(lg- menit, pays the judgmenlt, either with or withot' ac.tion, afler its affirmation by the alllpellate court, lie is sulbstituted to the rights of the judgnient creditor, anld is entitled to
control, enfiorce fi(d satisfy snci judgment in all respects
as if' lie had recovered tile same.
PART III.
SPI' 1CIA L I)ROCE'DIN(;S OF A ('l V 11, NATUIRF.
P'relim l IPC' ori.io . .
. S 1.-.,c 9 -1 . T h e 1) :u 'ty . ipr ,o .- u t i ng z a ,l ev i : l l '. ( , -
ing Ilay be knowm~n as tile plainltil', and tiw adx'crst! pai'ly
it. tile!h ht' vidalt.
Si. 9-45. A jildgiliilt il ;i spal(,.aI pr'(ding is tl'
~ i -.i. .e. dh tt (rni Ili (tf' , ft(! ri-'(.t , )t lt!~ par'ties. tPh. eciilo
l,i,T he deMilit ii(ls of,' a mo)tion. and all o)rd. ilal civil ac.tim.a
actions.
TITLE I.
oF) ." 's'l,, (al, I .wEI' M.ANDAT, AND MU!1111 l11rI()No
('Ii\m'Il.:I If-.
It''f u(i rhe'.
SvC(. . 9i/")(). Tlhe wr'lit (l1' , vetil-l.l'i I11.1v heP dhellomil-
ut(d ti e writ of* review.
,S W.dl. 901,. A writ ofPIv' itw 111-1i e r-aIitd bv am. ()ilrt, C.,e)I a probate or .listices court, wi ml ,
tril)[1n1,1, bo(ard o)r ,)fli(,(r cxcr,)'(.i4 ' judicial fil,(.ti(n, hmS
vl(vccc l tile Jl~.lri,i,), (,I' '1.11 Illiil.m:l. 1)(1',11,d m. tliv.,
and there is no appeal, tit' il tile .jud n'ieit of tile court,
ally plahli, speed', Il11d adequate remie*Ndy.
SEC. 952. Th' Uli1 'C)t eaton fIstt IbIeI 1C i Oil Ifl.dItV it hw tile party benefeially intet'ested, and the coinu rt t :1N' e- fl ire a notie of tie appliationl to be givel to tile adv'erse
pjzrty, or tin1Y graitl fiti o'de' to show 'attse vh. it slbftld
itot lell wed,l or lilay grant the writ withliit notice.
trilllnal, bc9o.5 a.1rd. , oTr iolef fiwcerri,t 1o1r1 Yt ob ea 'mdyi reoctthetedr tpoe rstlohne ihnaf''iirl l, the custody of thiC recorf fr Iroeeding s to be fer'tified..
W henl directed to .1 trihimmil, the( erk, it' there be ole,
tiust retrtin the writ with thitCr iiseript refplired.
SEC. 954. 'he writ of, review liist commni d tile party to whft it is dir'e'tel ti (.eetif'y 11lllv to tle ('tot't the writ, li:t specified ittie .and place, a transcriplt,
(,t' the iTCl'tI a tid i'f o'eding (dest'Iiibi or reht'ri'i' to
them with cotv'eni'ti ertaittv), that tile satile timy le reviewed
1)'.vti he court, :and requiring it party il file e('faittie
to desist f'titti fuir'ther profeedil-s ill the rlimtter to hei
reviewved.
SEC. 955. H s5it nV o!Tt' efditigs be tnt illtnedlf', thie words requing'i li stla\ In lutist le filittel 1' thf writ. These words Ilav lbt, inserted or oilited, ill tile S0,,und discretion o, th( court, but it' oilitted, tile p~owerV of'
tile intterit'r cu't or oflicer is ntt suspended or tile pre Ilings
st:aye(d.
SEC. 953. The writ luist he seivefl ill h snilie ti ri s it S1ltimttonts ill ;I Civil aftiofn, except whei olhf'-,
wise expressly di f tel'. ' thvel i rt.
SEC. 957. The revif'v upon this writ c'Iti nlt h x- tende~d, fulrther thian to deteriint, whietheri the infderio ...... t ti it i , lin al , fri o ftl ite t h as ref' lai'l pI'i I ttsf f dt h e ai t ho it' fit such tribinal, Ibtafl, (W offtlier.
SEC. 958. it' it ( t'nl ; tllC writ, lv df'ttftivf, thie cotuiart t fotr der ftitlhf lrt' rttt to be llalde. Whei a full hit s been idt, flit f'fftt must lif'"t iltp'-a rtis, orf such (W theml ats lm -y atlhild tllr that Iurpo.-e, uld ImIN
tIe',l fpso it' Jul d l le t eitllei i i''lii ' uhl-i tait o imilli 1i''ill
111,dik'vill" ill(e procitedinoi clhuik, lti ilIstl iib ep t rnI9nli snili leyd titt tf' ' i 'mld i, il signed byigfil l,' toi the it['eriln"t rillnnnal, boarlid, orl offic'er hn\'inlhO w.n1slod/" of, the r'ecord or ]n'oceedinT". ei.- tilled tip.
SEC. 965. .\A i ' i tt' thIt'.iil de ienl, siglied lbYit .J..cleric, entered uponll (1l" attacehed hl illi' wvrit lind( i'mll-l'l, VlIMstiliute
ull(''nIiei r'oll.
SEC. 964. The writ, of' intiilnnitis may 1)e dcnoii-
titeil t writ of 111111date.
SEC. 965. It iqy )e issued by am, court ill this
Territory, except a justice's or probate court, to any inifmrior
o
tribunal, corporation, board or 'persont,o scoiltpel the performauee
of an att which tile law specially eljins ai a
(duty resulting firom an office, trust or station; or to cotii-
11el1the admissioni of' a party to tile use and enjoymienit of' a
right or office to which lie is entitled and tile right to
whil is not it) dislte, a id fri-m wi jel lie is u1iiiawfiilly
lreclud(d by such intlerior tribunal, ci.r)oriation, board or
per'soni.
SEC. 966. This writ lutist be is.s:ued in all ('ase-s
wI here there is not .1 a iii, Slpeidy and adequate remiedy in
tile irdi n'au'v colil'se f A'. rit must Ibc issitiel hipo aflidavit,
oil the application of the party Ieieficially iiiterested.
SEC. 967. The writ may either lie alternative or
tol 'lertie nitstt
p remptory. The .dteritive writ m1st state generally tlie
allegation against tile party to wIh ti it is directed, and
cotni iMidI si icl party, i il ined iatelv after the receipt of' tile
writ, or at soiiie other specified timhe, to do the act required
to le icrformed, or* to show ca use 1)ebdre tie court, at a
spcified time aild Ilace, wh'ly ihli has I(,! done so. The
ierciilptory writ ii uist 1be iii a similar fo6r m1 except that tile
words requiring the party to show cause why he has not
done as coil] Iainlided, in list he oiitted, and a rettuirn day
inserted.
SEC. 968. W hel thei ali)hliiation to the court is iilade
t without notic to tile .dverse party, and the writ be al-
lwed, the alteriative nuiist be first issued; hut it' the
al'ivation ibe upon due ntice, and the writ 1)0 allowed, atiic
the peremptory mly lie issued ini the first instance. The
Ioti(ce of' the applicatioi when given must )e at least
tenl days. Tihe writ caniot be granlted I)y defiunlt. The
(i i( ust be heard 1)y ie court, whether tie adverse parity
apipe'r o1' not.
Sec. 969. On the return day of the alternative, or Tile the ,dayo n which the ap)li ntion tbrth e writ is noticed, partmayy (or sieh further day as the court may allow,) the party oi "whoin tle writ oi, notice has been served may show ttflise
by answer iider oath, made in the same manner ms an
answer to a comp)lainlt iina civil an'tion.
SEc. 970. 1f' an answer be made, which raises a
question i;.tio a ilatter of fihet essential to tile (leter'liina- tion of' the motion, and afleet ing the substantial rights of the parties, and l,,, the Sllosed tiltil of tie allegation of which the alplioition fo thte writ is based1, the eou't
llay, ill its ,liseietiol, order tile qIlestionl to ie tried heflore
aI jtiry, aid postlpone the argument until such trial call Ie
]il(1, and if tile prI'o'eedings are pending ill the sureme
(,,u|'title, verei'(it cr'tified to that coiurt. The orehf' r
trial mly)' also lirect the juI'y to assess any damilages which
the applicant illay have s |stain ld, ill etw|e they find br
hill); it'th e or lel r t rial is issued fromi the Slrellie
court it Ilist designiate tile Jud|,icial (listriet in witichi the
satlle shall be had.
SEC. 971. On tle trial the applicant is not lre('Ithll b t e allsw el fo m lly v lid Ii * t iou t o , t •ifli yi I )ie Ill 'rod m:ly .o(lltervail it hy l,'i(f eit her ill dir't delnial l"by wvav o,' avoidance.
SEC. 972. ThIem otilo tr a new trial lust be ilde ill the oul ill whil'hl the issue of, fiat is tricl. Si.c. 1I7:1. If' no iotice of' ,I miotioli 1,1. a new t''ial I)egi ve or) it'g iveil, tie motion 1e de ied, if the a i,'t- tiol for the writ is lending ill the supreme 'ol rt the ('lerk of' the listri't (otirt imist withiin five ,ays tia1lsli t to tile sulrem e (',ol't a ce'tifiel (,1lV of' the V'(,l i,,ittt t .h,'d to - tile order of trial ; after whilh either p:ir ty I II ay 1bring onill tie argument oif the allietion ill the 'ou'ti i which it is
pending 1lpoin 'e.asonalie notice to the ad'erse party.
SEC. 974. If' no answer be made the case imist IeI heard oIn the lapers of' the alilitnt. If the aiswer ralses only qultestions of' law or puts ill issi e inmmat(ial state- not afletiilg the siibstiiti|l i'ighits of tihe parties, the Court must fir(Ieee to hetr or fix I day for bearing tle
argimient of the ease.
SEC. 975. f' judgment Ie given for the a"lplint, lie 1I,y IeCover the (tllitges Which h ie hts stailled, ashac m foun(d by tile jury, or as Iila ie deterilled 1hy the court or refeirees, upo a refbrene to Ile ordered, together with costs; ainIl fir such daiages anid costs, an execution may
issue, an(1 it penptory nndate must also be awarded
without delay.
SEC. 976. The writ must he served ill the same
mu11nhlet' as a sunumons ill a civil action, except when otherwise
expressly. directed 1)y order of the court. Service
uponl it nuijority of the members of' :nity board or .body is
service up1)oni the board or body, whether at the time oft the
service the board or body was in session or not.
SEC. 977. When t pferempltory mandate bas ieen
issued mihd directed to any inf'erior tribunal, en'jraortion,
board or peion, if' it appear to the court that any member
of s h triblllli, corporatic-u or loard, or suich person IIpon
whom tile writ has bee, persnally served, has, without
just excuse, refused or neglected to obey the same, the coulrt
ma11Y, uipon motion, imposeI fine not exceeding live hundred
dollars. I ca'se of' plersisteuce i/l 1t refulsal of' o)edien:ce,
tile court mnay order tile palrtv to be inrisoned until tie
writ is obeyed, md may uimake any ord(rs ncvessary and
Proper foi the complete enforcement of ihe writ.
SEC. 982. Tie writ of prohibition is tile coumteroibik,
rt of' tile wr''it of' mandate. It irests the l)roceedings
of ally tribillil, corp~oration , board, oi- person, whether exercisinhg
flunctimols judicial or ministerial when such proeedings
are without 01' ill excess of tile ,juri,, diction of
sich tribil11, corporation, lbod or rson.
SEC. 983. It may lie ;.sued by ti) court ex(cpt plro -
hate or justices' courts to an inferior triiml or to a ('01r-
1oiltihil, 10l1ard, or person, ill all ( 1sCS where there is tiot a
lain, speedy, an( adefiate remedy ill tiice ordinary course
of law. It i iimSuled !1)Oli alidavit, oil tile aipliic.ltion of'
tile e1etsonl belleficially interested.
Sec. 981. The w'it must be either alternative or
j:1remlplttory. Ti alternative writ Illust state gemeral"ly
the allegation against tile aI'ty to whom it is di'ec(I, an11(
(oll/laldl sutch P)arty to desist'or ref'rain fr'oil further proceedings
ill the action or matter slecified therein, until tile
fl'lther order of tihe cotirt fr(ol which it is is.sted , anld to
.show catse Ifeftre sml coill't, at a specified tina' and aihe,
.viy such] lpart; sholhl not Ile alb-oltitely resltrailel f''omii
any further proceedings illsu ch action or matter. The
peremptory writ must be ililt si milar form, except that the
words requicring the party to show cause why he should
not be absolutely restrained, etc., must he omitted1, and a
return day inserted.
SEc. 985. The provisions of the prec(ing sections 968'to 977 both inclusive, apply to the proceedings frin writ of prolibition.
Sc. 986. Writs of' review, manhlte, and l)rohibi- tioii, illty be i b v) stie)d, of'St trihcpero hijbuitisotni ces of' the supreme court, or, a (listrct judge in vaIttIio n, and my, illth e discrtion f ther5 Iheard discretion of" the njstice or judge issuing the writ, be imde returliable and ith earing tlereon be ha( in vacation.
SEC. 987. Exceptas othelwise pirovided in this Title, the provisiolns of this Code relative to civil actiols in the di.strict coirt, are applicable to and constitite the rules of
pritetice in the proceedings mentionel in this Title.
SEC. 988. Tie provisions fI this Code relative to
liew trials inl, and appealls froi the district Court, except
so fi. is they fire inicolnsistent with the provisions of' th is Title, lv to the proceedings mentioned in this Title.
TITLE II.
OPl C)NT,'rTICERN(4 TAIN*"-E~IiExC TIONS.
SEC. 989. Any elector of I county, lreinct, or cit%, my eontest the right. of' any person leclared electeil to ln tiflice to be exercised therein, fbr any of the fbllowing
grounds:
1. For inUlconduct on the part of' the board of'
,judges, or ally member thereof';
2. When the person whose right to the office is (coiltcsted
was not) at the time of the election, eligible to silhi
office.
* I. W eletinhe isclri wNhose right is contcsted l i
g ttii eanin elector, ()1i'n ic. hi'lj idge, (or clerk ot' the
cecit ii oip il Ili('p oi' rew~liiiv, ii' iimos ollrcd an1l ls (ci bribe
or reward, for the purpose of procuring his election, or
has commited any other offense against the elective franehise
defined by law;
4. On account of illegal votes.
SEC. 994. No irregularity or improper conduct in
the proceedings of the judges, or any of them, is such ialducof
judgs,
conduct is avoids an election, unless tie irregularity or imnelectio,,.
proper conduct is such s to procure the person whose right
to the office i, contested to be declared elected when lie had
not receivcl the highest number of legal votes.
SEc. 995. When ainy election held for an office exercised
in mid for a county is contested on account of any
malconduct on the part of the board of judges of' lly precinct
election, or any memiber thereof, the election cannot
Ihe annulled and set aside upon any 1)roof thereof, unless
the rejection of the vote of such precinct or precincts,
would change the result as to such office in the remaining
vote of the county.
SEC. 996. Nothii;g in the fourth ground of' contest
is to le so construed as to authorize an election to )e set
asi(le on acmunt of' illegal votes, unless it appear that a
nund)er of illegal votes has beIen given to the person whose
right to the olice is contested, which, if' taken from him,
would reduce the number of' his legal votes below the numil)
er of' votes given to. sonie other person for tile same office,
after deducting ther'ef''om the illegal votes which may iie
shown to have been given to such other person.
SEc. 997. Wlhn an elector contests the right of' any
Person declared elected to such office, he must, within forty
days after the return (lay of the election, file with the clerk of'
the district court, of' the judicial district within which such
office is to be exercised, a written statement, setting forth
specifically:
1. The name of the party contesting su('h election,
and that lie is in elector of the district, eounty, or precinct,
as the mise may I)e, in which such election was held;
2. Tle name of' the person whose right to the office
is contested;
3. 'rhie office;
4. The particular grounds of, such contest, which
statement must l)e verified by tile affidavit of' the contesting
party, that tie matters aid things therein contained tire
true.
SEC. 998. AWhen the reception of illegal votes is Il-
leged as a cause of contest, it is sulficient to state generally,
thatin one or more specified precincts illegal votes were
given to the person whose election is contested, which, if
taken from him, will reduce the number of his legal votes
1)elow the number of legal votes given to some other person
for the same office; but no testimony can be received of
any illegal votes, unless the party contesting such election deliver to the opposite party, at least three days before such trial, a written list of the inmiber of illegal votes, and by whom given, which lie intends to prove on such trial; and no testimony c.-an be received of ainy illegal votes exce p t
such as are s)ecifild in such list.
SEC. 999. No statement of' the grounds of contest Will be rjeeted, nor the proceedings distissed by any court for want of' fbrm, if' the grounds of contest nre alleged with such certaiIity ts will advise the defendant of' the particular
proceeding or cause for which snch election is (otested.
SEc. 1000. Upon the statement being filed, the elerk must inform the judge of' the district court thereof'; the judge of' said court must then by an order to be entered Iy
the clerk, name some1 day, not less than tei noi' more than
twenty days from the date of' such order, to hear and determine
such contested election.
SEC. 1001. The clerk inust thereuponi issue a (itatioh the person, whose right to the office is contested, to all)- pear at the time and place s)ecifie( in the or(er, which
citation iust be delivered to the United States marshal or
sheriff and be serve(d either upon the party in personl, Or, if'
he cannot )e f'oun1l, by leaving a copy thereof lit the house
where lie last resided, at least five days before the time so
specified.
SEc. 1002. The clerik nilist issue sull)etlas fbi' wit- nesses at the request of either party, which naust be served ats other subpenas; and the judge shall have fll power to
issue attaehments to compel tie attedanhce of witnesses
who have been subl)oened to attend.
SeC. 1003. The court niust meet at the time and 1)lace designated, to determine such contested election, and
slil have all the l)owers necessau'y to the (letermllation
thereof. It may adjourn the hearing and trial fi'oni day to
day uintil such trial is ende((, and may also continue tie trial, )efore its coninlencenelit, ftr any time not exceeding twenty days, 101r good cause shown by either party upon
affidavit, at the costs of the party applying ftor such contilnltalCe.
SEc. 1004. The cou't must I)e governed, in the trial and determination of such contested election, Iby the rules 42
of law and evidence governing tile deterinination of qestions
of' liw and fitet, so fill as tile same mia1y be applicable;
and may dismiss the proceedings if the statemeat of, the
catise or causes of the contest is insuflicient, or fbir waNt of
posecution. After hearing the proofI, and allegations of
the parties, the court must prnoiunee iudgineit in the
premises, either confiruing or Itiltlliug 'id setting aside
such election.
SEC. 1005. If il any suich t'se it appea's that an- other person thiiai the one of' legal votes, returned has the highest number the court must, declare such person elected.
SEC. 1006. The clerk, marshal, or sherill and witand
nesses shall receive resleetively, the same flis, f'rom the
party agaiust whoii judgiielt is giveii, is are illowed for
similar services in otlel"cases.
SEC. 1007. It'tl he proeedings are dismissed tVtr in'-
stifheieuiy, or wallt of' proseeiitiolli, or the electiou is fl'N
the eotirt 'oifirn ted, jingnieit lilust )e rendered aga ilist tile
pa'ty (onltestillg sitlI election, "ocro sts, ihi fhvor of' tile
lmil'tV whose eletion was contested; hut it'th e election is
U l. iluiled atnl set mtside, jtudglnilt fir i lsts intist be rendered
against, the llrty w\'hose election wias contested, ill
fit\or of' tile 1 'artv coliteiig tile Sallli. Pr'imari/a1, eaci
PrIu'ty is liable for the costs ei'eatted h himself, to the ftfei'sc
and wities:ses entitled tlhereto, which Ilay he collected ill
theilie mneiicr as simirhu costs are collected ill otiler
SEC. 1008. Either pai'ty, aggrieved by theJ tudglnent,
ma)- appeal therefrol to the svl'enle court, as ill other
cm-ses of' lippelil thereto fromt tile district coturt.
SEC. 1009. Whenever ill elctioll is lllilillhltd ir set
side Ly the juidgient ot' tile district coll]t, and lio appeal
als beei takeil witi in ten dlays tiereafter, the i sion ,
it'a nv" lis i) elii ssiltdl, is .vid, llilthle offhice viltitlat.
TITLE III.
SUMMAilY PII(CIElI1 N(5.
(Ci IIi'l'ril I.
Conf/es.,don of ,]i( hpncnt without Action.
SEc. 1014. A-~ ~j~i i(Igiiieiit bV Coiif'eSSioiI 11:y Iie en- h tered wit c t acthi,'it er fio' ilioney dutie or to Ibecome dilet, or. to s evilre. lly) ]pers. o1 against contingent liability oil behalf, of, tile defint , or both, inl fth! mnnler lre.werihed
by this Chtlpter. Stch jildgment iliay he entered ill any
.otti't hiitin .iig1idi ictioi fbl like amiounits.
SEC. 1015. A. statement ill writ im intlist he iliiithe, I _1w signed b the defendant an velrifiel by his oaItlh to the Ii llowinig eltet:
1. It iut t atithorize the entry of" judgnment f"or -i
Specified stii);
2. IT' it he for Ioniicy due, o' to iecomie lite, it Iluist
state coieisvelv the ficts out of' which it airose, and Show
that the sum'confLssed therefli' is justly (ute or to become
:1. Tf" it be for the purpose of' seceul'ig tile plaintifl'
againi st t on tii genlt liaIility, it inui st state cocisely the
facts constituting the liability, aiid show that tile suIll eOilfessed
therefor does not execed the same.
SEC. 1016. 'lhts t.titeileiit in tiSt 1be filed with ihu .'lerk 0' tile court ill which thl', judgment is to be eintered, w ho must indorse upon it, and enter in thle judgment book,
Sjud" iint of' slielh court fi the aItout confesscd, with
five dollars vosts. The statemeni and 'a fidavit, with the
judgment indorsed, thereupon be.comes the jtidgment roll.
Sec. 117. In a justice's court, where the court has the authot'itv to enter tlhe judgtnett, the stateiment uitay he filed with ilie justice, who imnuis t ticrellpoll enter itih is
docket 't judgilnit of his court fi the aiotint cot ifkssed,
with three dolhtt's (osts.. I1f' a traniscript ot' stch uidgniet
be filed with the district (lerk, a copy of' the stateiicint
luist be filed with it.
SEC. 1018. lPiathrotui i to a question iini~ ditlerence, whtioch
might be the subject of a civil action, may without action
agree ipol a case containing the thcts iipoli which fie (!o.
troversy d(epends, aid preseilt a suil)lilissioli of the same to
ally court whi(h would have jurisdiction if' an action had
been brought; but it must appear, by alidavit, that the
controversy is reln, anrd the proceedings in good fiithih, to
determine the rights of' the parties. 'The court must thereupon
Iie' and determine the (.se, andi render judgient
thereon ,as if' an a(tion were delpending.
Sec. 1011. J1udgment must, he entered in.the judgin
men t Ii t)ok , as ill other bhaist ewu,i thout costs for al l probut
(TCdinIf)(r ior to tile trial. T'rie case, tile SIiliiOUi552i, in(1 a
vop~y of' the judgment constitutes the judgment roll.
SEC. 1020. The irdgment may be enforced il the
-tile 110 fili as if it h11( Ii e n rell&red in an i actio , and
is ill the sailne manner suI j eCt to appeal.
SEC. 1021. Anv persa cOllolilled in,ja il on allexecumay
g~, t io ii Ss ue o~I aI Jtldi gi fcr 1i1li t t ren(er(j ill I ciVil acif(o, Iust
he discharged therefrom upon the conlitiolis ill this Chapter
sliecifiied.
SEC. 1022. Such person must catse a notice in
writing to ibe given to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney,
that at L certai timie fiid place, lie wiill aply to the district judge of' the district in which the 'ounty ill which he may
le i Ilwisolled is situated, for the pilmPose of obtaining It
diseiarge froii his iIn i[risonl lIelIt.
Sec. 1021. Such notice must ie served upon the
plaiitif, his agent or attorney, one day at least befbre the
hearing of" the application.
SEC. 1024. At the time and place specified in tile notice, such 1person must be taken before such judge, who forejudge.
must examine him under oath concerning his estate and
property and effects, and the disposal thereof; and his
ability to pary the judgment for which he is committed, and
such judge my also hearf any other legal and pertinent evidence
that, may be produced I)y the debtor or the creditor.
Sec. 1025. The plaintif ' in the action may, Ulpon ImnatyC such examination, propose to the lrisoner any interroga- ing.
t'Jries pertinent to the inquiry, and they Iust, if're quired
by him, be proposed ind( alswercl in i6itihg, and the answer
imist be signed and sworn to by the prisoner.
SEc. 1026. If, upon the examination, the juidge is oath satisfied that the prisoner is entitled to his dishinrge, le must administer to hilltihe followig oaith, to-wit: " -
do solemnly swear tlatr I have not any estate, real or personal,
to tie amount of' fity dollars, except sut'h as is by
law exempit from being taken in exe(tution, and that I have
not any other estate now conveyed 0' eoiCe0altl, or in any
wao isposed of, with design to secure the same to illy use,
or, thinder, delay or def'rad my eretlitors, so help fie
God."
SEc. 1027. After admiiistering the oath, the judge must issue an order that the -)ri n)er lIe discharged fr'om
cuistody, and the officer, u)on the service of' such order,
must disch:rge the prisoner forthwith, if' lie be imlrisoned
fImr no other calse.
Sec. 1028. It' such judge does not discharge the fprisonr )risoner, lie may apply flor his discharge at the end ofAtpine every sui(ceedimg tell days, in the same manner as al)ove prov:ided, and the same 1iroceedings luist thereupon be had.
SEC. 1029. rhe prisoner, aftei being so (lisehiarged, is forever exempt from arrest or imprisonment fbir the
sane lelbt, unless lie be convicted of having willfully sworn
falsely upon his examination before the judge, or in taking
the oath before preribed.
SEC. 1030. The iudgment against, any prisoner who discharged remains in futll fore against any estate which may then or at any time afterwai'd belong to him, and tile
pllaintifl' may take out a new execution against the gtods
and estate of' the prisomer, in like matner as if he had
never been commiltted.
SEC. 1031. The plaintiff in the aetion may at aiiy time order the prisoner to Ibe discharged, and lie is not thereafter liable to imlprisonment for the same cause of
action.
SEC. 1032. Whenever a p .soins comiitted to jail 'tproli
pris- oil all executon issued on a jil g n t r cov r ed in a civl
action, the creditor, his agrent or attorney, must advance to
the jailor, on such commitinent, sufficient money for the
suptiort of the prisoner for oie week, anod musi make the
like advace for every sttesive week of his impi'oment,
,id in case of a fhilure to do so, the jailor must forthwith
discharge such prisoner from custody; and such dliseharge
hls the sanie effbet as if' ninde by order of the creditor.
SEC. 1033. Every persoll is guilty of' a forcille cideljncd.
-
try who either:
I. By l)reaking ole1 doors, window-, or other parts
of' a house, or hy aiy kind of violence or cire iuistanwe of
terror, eaters upon or into any reail property; or
2. Nrho, after entering pett('eahly upon real property,
turns out by force, threats, or menaillg cl(londuct, the party
ill possessioni.
SEC. 1034. Every person is guilty of' a forcible de- *•
tainer who either:
1. By fice, or by menace.s and threats of violence,
unlawfully holds and keeps the possession of aiiiy real ollopcrty,
whether the same was acqluired peaceably or otherwise;
or
2. Who, ill tile night titme, or during the absence of
tile occupant of' ally lands, unlawflully caters upom1 real
propertv, and who, after demanItI made for tile surrender
thereof, for the period of five days, ref'uses to surrelder the
sa me to such former ocecupailt.
The occupanmt of -'eal property, within the mniumng of
this subdivision, is one wilo, withill five days preceding
such unlawful entry, was, ill tile peaceale and undisturbed
po.sessioll of such hands.
SEC. 1035. A tenant, of real lprolperty, for a term
less tian life, is guilty of' ami unlawfid detaiier:
1. Where lie continues ill possessioh, ill person or i)v
sub-tenant, of the property, or any part thereof, after tl;e
expliration of' the terni for which it is let to him) without
)e'nnssion of his landlord, or his successor in estate of his
llnllord, if any there be; but in case of a tenancy it will,
it must first I)e terminated by notice of five days;
2. When li continues in possassioi, in person or by
sub-tenant, without permission of his landlord, or the sne(.essor in estate of' his landlord, if' any therYb, atier
defitult in the payment of' rent, inrstilat to the lease or
agreement tinder which the property is held, and three
days' notice ill writing, requiring its p)ayment, stating the
amount which is dle, o, l)OSsession of the pr)o)erty, shall
have been served upon him, and if there be a sub-tenant in
actual occupl ation of' the preiises, also upiu such subtenant.
Such notice Iay he served1 at any time within one
year aIfter the IrIt Ibeei ics diie. In all Ueses of' tenancy
upon agriciti nl- hinds, where the telant has held over
and retaiiIed possussion for Ilorre thait sixty days after tlhe
exl)i'tion of his term without any denial(l of' possession
(a" iotice to quit by the laInllord, or the successor in estate
of' his land lord, it' any there ibe, lie slall be (leenefl to be
hling Iy permission of' the landlord, or the successor in
e(state of his ladlord, ifally there be, and shalI be entitled
to hold finder the ten s of' the lease fir another full year,
and shall not Ie guilty of' an n'awful detainer during said
yeair, anrd su(h lohing over tio' the period albresaid sidl
l)e taken anid Coiistrued s a consent oi the part of' the
tenant to 1hl finr another year
:1. When lie (ontinues ii possession, in person o1 1)y
sub-tena t, after a neglect or ftiilil'e to perfoiim other con-
(litionss' (' venants of the lease oir agreement under which
the iroperty is held, including any coveiant not to assign
ofrsu blet, than the one fbi' the payment of' rent, and three
days' notice, in writing, requiring the perlornmaee of' such
c(0ilitions oi' covenants, or the plosession of' the property,
shall have beei served upo him, and if' there be a siibtenant
in actual occupation of' the premises, also upon such
sub-tenant. Within three days ifiler the service of the
notice, the tenant, or aiiy siib-tenant in aetual occupation of
the premises, or any inoritgagee of' the ter'm, or other person
interested in its continuwmce, may periform the conditions
or c venants of' the lease, o' pay the stipulatel rent, as the
ease may he, and therby save the lease fi'om forfeiture;
Pr'ided(, if the eovenants 111i1 conditions of the lease,
violated by the lessee, cannot afte'w'ird le lierfi'med, then
no notice, as last l)reseril)ed herein, need be given to said
lessee or his sub-tenaiit dellanding the perf'i'nraiee of the
violatel covenant or conditions of' the lease. A tenant
may take proceedings, similar to those prescribed in this Chapter, to obtain possession of the premises let to all
nler-tenmat, in case of his unlawful detention of the
lremises nillderlct to him;
4. . tenant or suil)-tenant, assignilng or sub-lettilng,
or committing waste u)on the demised premises, (ontrary to
the covenants of his lease, thereby terminates the lease,
and the landlord, or his su1ccessor1 ill estate, shall, upo
service (f three days' notice to quit, upon the personl or
personls ill possession, Ile entitled to restitution of possession
of suich demised p remise, under the provisions of
this Chapter.
SEC. 1036. The notices required by tile )receding section may be serve(], either:
1. By delivering a copy to the tenant personally; or,
2. If'he be absent from his place of residence, and
froni his usual 1)lace of Iusi)i bsIbsleya, v ing a copy with
some pvrsoil of' suitable age a'1( discretion at either place,
and seildill.g a copy througl tile iil addressed to the
tenant, at his place of residence; or,
:3. It shell place of resideleoC and business caIlnlo t be
ascertained, or a person of suitable age or discretiol tanot
)c tbu)1d there, then by affixing a copy illa coislictious
place oil the rloperty, and also delivering a copy to .a persoil
there residing, it'sl ich Iersl call Ie fi1u(d, aind also
sending I copy through tile imnil addressed to tile tenant lt
tile plaWe where the hpropertv is situated. Service upon a
sub-tenailit illay be illade ill tile samlle 1111n1nier.
SEC. 1037. The district court of the judicial distriet
~which cilllraces tie property, or some part of it, 11s juI, risdiction
of' proceed illgs undl'er this Chalter; Po'l(t(l(, rioiat
justices' courts, within their reslective precincts, or cities,
shall have concurrent j1rI'i(ditioll with tildei strict coili't ill
(caseofs forvible entry and detainer, under this Chapter,
when tlie whole aiount of' rent and daillages clainied is
less than three ihiiidred dollars.
SEC. 1038. No Iersoll other than tile tellailt of tile premises, and siub-tenanlt, ift"he re b~e oule ill the attlal oectiloatoifl
the premises, led Ie male lartics dfelcllidlt ill
tie proceeding, 1101 shll aly proceediiig albate, nor tile
plailitill be 1onsi)ited for the o1(1l-j Oil(d I r f' anyl r)sons
who might have been made parties (lelndalt ; but whenl it
ilpplmars that ally of' tile parties served with iprocess o i' ipearinig
ill the loceedhing are guilty of the otfense charged,
judgment must I)ree ndered Igaist him. Ill ase a mar'ied
woman be a tentnt or :I sul-teiant, her coverture slill constitute
no'defense, but in ease her husband be not joined,
or unless ihe be doing business as a sole tider, an executlion
is.ue, upon a personal judgment against her, can only
be cnforced against property ol the premises tit the conimencement,
of the action.
SEC. 1039. Except s l)rovidel in the preceding section, tile' provisions of this Code, relating to parties to ely.
civil actionE, are applicable to this proceeding.
Sec. 1040. The plaintiff, in his complint, which The shall be in writing, must set forth the filcts on which he
seeks to reever, anid describe the premises with reasonable
certainty, anl may set forth therein any circumstances of
fraud, force 9r violence which may have accompanied the
alleged forcil le entry, or forcible or unlawful detainer, and
claim damages therefor. In aise the unlawflhl detainer
charged be after deilult in the payment of rent, the complaint
must state the amount of such rent. Upon tiling the coil- S,,,,... plaint, a sutmons must be issued thereon as ill other cases, returnal)le at a day designated therein, which shall not be
less than three days nor more than twelve days from its
date, except in cases when the publication of the sumons
is necessary, in which case the court, or a judge or
justice thereof, may order that the summons be made returnable
at such time as may be deemed proper, and the
summons shall specify the return day so fixed.
Sec. 1041. The summons must state the parties to the l)roceeding, the court ill which ie same is l)rought, the nature of the action, in concise terms, and the relief sought
and also the return day, and must notil , the defendant to
appear anrod answer within the time d( Algnated or that the
relief sought will he taken against him. The summous
nmust be directed to the (lefend.ant, and be served at least
two days befbre the return day lesignated therein, and
must be served and returned in the same manner Us umil11-
1ons iin civil actions is served and retum'ned. Upon the return of any summons issued under this Chapter, where,,,,,,the same hits not, fi any reason, been served, or not served
in time, the plaintifl' may have a new summons issued, the
same as if no previous .mmOins had been issued.
Sec. 1042. It tile complaint 1)isented cAtablishes, to the satisftaction of the judge or justice, f..aud, force, or
violence, in the entry or detainer, and that the possession
held is umnIlawfiul, lie may make an order for the arrest of
the defendant.
SEC. 1043. It; at the time appointed, the deflindant do not appear and defend, the court must enter his dellilt 43
and render judgment in lavor of the plaintif'as praye for ill tile Comp~laint.
Sec. 1041. On or b'Aore the day fixed for his up-
leance the lendant my appear and answer or (lmur.
Sec. 1045. Whenever an issue of' fltet is lresente(i
by the pleadings, it must be triel by a jlry, unless such
jury he waived asll other "(.ts(Tsi.h e llurv 5hii Ib:e ftrmlled
il "tle same manner as other trial juiiries in the court in
which the action is pending.
SEC. 1016. Oil the trial of* any proceeding foir .v
r entrIyib lo r f'olicible detainer, tile p lainlil o0ly be
required to siIt il addition to the forcible entry or B't'1 ible
detai "c omplam of't,h at' he was cp e eabl i thWe Cal
possessioll at tile time of the fII'.ible entry, cr" was entitled
to the po SSession aIt tile tinle of tie fI rcible detaill1r. 11 le
defeidlant Iilay 'how ill his defeinse, that he r his -mics- tots, r those whse interest ill Stch p~remiss le claims,
lIIhve Ibtee'n ill the (q I ie t p ss.C.ssio n theri'of fBr tie SIl . of
OIl' hle y( :tl" topetli(er1 next boeiCo'e tle ,omnillelenit of,
the lprocvedings, a'rI d that.-h is interest therein is not then
el(((1 1 (r d(elrlilled(; ;111(1 St'il showing is .1 1111' to tile
procedings.
.o ' .:'1i 1t' ,h11\ Vlle, il tt e ti Ia 'yl ill tilt'
ae i11r1 1tdh is C11la ter it aetl t' 'sf 1'ol n the eviditci that tii e
dtrvt tiedsat ih s ib ' eet uilty of' either f1 iC lle entry or a
f'ortibled detaine , and othI r tha11ti le otlills crre1('il tile complaint, the jildg' mu11st order that such complaint be
C'olthwith ailended to mionil to such 1)roofl . Such
juedtenlIIif'lt ICust be withou't any itipoitin ot',ter s. No
continuncei usI t hv ri itt atil l account of' such
i nid entI, less the di o-iet d't, l y :14t \ it ilt , shows
to tile Iatisfiutieolf , tie court, gtooI (IlI lherer. -
SEC. 1040. If', upon l t e trial, the verdiet of' tfie
jwuirthyg . or ai t' t ns1ee be wi trCieotd al ar',e iet'fin1dill of
ie court be ilIl fivo of th'eii tilatl(y , I' ayg ainst the de- telndant, jiudg;me.nt shall be entered fibr file restitution of* the
promises, and it' tile p~roceeding be Cor all unl1awfull dotadier
after neglect or fitilire to 1l'6-11r tile .oilditiolns or covetnants
of' the lease or agrement 111hdr whic'h tile property
is held, or after defittlt in the pilv',nent of, rent, tile judgmzt
di'all also declare tile fil'flit ire of such lease or ag(reemont.
The jury or the cotirt, it' the proceeding be tried
without a jury;, shall also.assess the damnages occ asioned to
tile lplailititt ' IbY '1nY flrviile entry, or byv ally fo~rcible or
unlawt'ifl detailler, :lhegcd ill the .omp~lain t, arod p~rovecd oll
the trial, anid find the :111lolll of, :1l1rYen 't (Ille, if' the
alleged unlwful detainer be after deflllt iI tiei avlI'llt of'
rent; and the jiudgilnent shall le renderel against tile delcn
lidat guilty of' the florcihle entry, or florcihle or Inilawfl
Ietailelr, for three ti nies tile a110ou lit of tile daalilges thus
alssessel, and of the rent fonjid dIle. When tip proceeding
is fin, an ihaiw fl'dlet ainer af ter defhuIl t in tie payIiient of
h rei t, und the lease or agreeient iun d' whil the rent
is1 )il~ ih.heas, not I)iy its termils expired, execntion l1 01 lie
j,gnit shall not he iNshuee d until exliiatimo of' five d(,'s
Ierithpe ciir 'v le.jlilginent, within which tiniv the tell-
-ilit, or o ,uln e\a'.l lrtga(e of' the terill, or
other party interested il it.co,t ntiuanet, iay p, into eo'l ,
for tile laIndlod, tile aliolint ftoul due I, r.:ent, with ilterest
thereoi, and the ailiolit of (il'ages f'iied hv the juiry
hr the 'oltC ol' the 1IIL'wfiI detiliiiVal eln, 'pstso f the
proceeding,, anod thelo tile illdIgnient shall IbeS atisfied,
0II(t1h eI t(McI tzI (' restoel to his estate ; hut, if* IaVIIllt,
as here i'oviehd, Iv not 11ad, within till' five days, the
.idgieiit lilOv he enfol'cc.d fiw its rull ulloinlt, W11 1(11t'l mt
p)ssessi l of' tie p,'(,1ise: . Ini ;I!, other cases tile .jiuigtltelit
I1HaV he enlfor(,ed i Il ledhieiv.
SEC. 109. The: co{llilll i" andl mlslS\'. lilll.,b-Vt( Si.c. 10t50. An appeal taken hw th(' (hvnhnt. shall not stay pr'o(eedings upntl), lIgl((/l lvlt: ilh(.ss the! .ju(Igv, ,oi'justiv'e 10el'( whll it aill(\%*. Is ren,)dere'd so)d irect(s. S1:c. 105 1. The liro\'isiolS 4if this (,ode, I'ehti\', to ('ivil uelh%4 nl~unds , Wi n( Ivrb il)hls, so)f ia' aIsth ey are°' nt i lnconsis(t t( w ith th l c( i lotios (it' this ( 1:1p1tcr appl)t ( lth-pe eding(n(I'e'l('hlist iioll nt(h'i(s C'hap)terl.
TITLE IV.
CIIAPTER I.
Eforcement of Liens.
DEFINITION OF LIENS.
Sic. 1056. A lien is a charge imposed upon specific
prol)erty, by which it is made security for the performance
ofi an act.
MIENSO F MECHANICS AND OTHIERS UPON REAL
PROI'EIlTY.
SEC. 1057. Every person performing labor upon, or
fuirnishing nmatei'ials to be used in the construction, alterunay
ation or repair of any, mining claim, building, wharf,
bridge, ditel , flume, tiinel, fence, machinery, railroad,
wagon road, aqueduct to create hydraulic power, or any
other structure, or who performs labor in any mining
clahn, has a lien upon the same for the work or labor done
or materials Furnished by each respectively, whether done
or furnished at the instance of the owner of the building
or other iml)rovemert, or his agent, but the aggregate
amount of such liens w.ust not exceed the amount which
the owner would be otle:'wise liable to pay.
SEc. 1058. Any sub-contractor, material man,
laborer, or other person performing labor or furnishing
naterials for a contractor -who is entided to a lien under
the provisions of tie lenst section, may, at any time within
five days after conmencing to perform tile labor or furnish
the materials serve upbn the owner or his agent, or the person
employing the contractor, written notice of the amount
due him for such labor or materials, and such sub-contractor,
material man, laborer, or other person may have a
lien for such amount. And any person furnishing
materials, or performing labor for a contractor, may, by
like notice to the contractor, be subrogated to the rigits of
such .sub-contractor.
SEC. 1059. Any person, who at the request of the of any lot in any incorporated city or town, grades, ing. fills in, or otherwise improves the same, or the street in front of, or adjoining the same, has a lien upon such lot
for his work done and materials furnished.
SEC. 1060. The land upoti whicl any building, im- provemeilt or structure is constructed, together with a con-otheland venint space about the same, or so much as may be
required for the convenient use and occupationi thereof, is
also subject to the liens, if, at the time the work was commenced
or the materials for the same had commenced to be
furnished, the land belonged to the person who caused said
building, improvement or structure to be constructed,
altered or repaired; but if such person owned less than a
fee simple estate in such ]and, then only his interest
therein is subject to such lien.
SEc. 1061. The liens provided for in this Chapter are preferred to any lien, mortgage or other incumbrance,"
which may have attached subsequent to the time when the
building, improvement, or structure was commenced, work
done, or materials were commenced to be furnished; also,
to any lien, mortgage, or other incumbrance of which the
lienholder had no notice and which was unrecorded at the
time the building, improvement or structure was commenced,
work done, or the materials were commenced to
be fhriinished.
SEC. 1062. Every original contractor, within sixty days after the completion of his contract, and every persol, save the original contractor, claiming the benefit of this Chapter, must within thirty days after the completion of
any building, implrovement, or structure, or after the completion
of the alteration or rcplir thereof, or the performance
of any labor in a mining clailm, file for record with
the county recorder of the county in which such property
or some part thereof is situated, a claim containing a statement
of his demand, after deducting all just credits and offsets,
with the name of the owner or reputed owner, if'
known, and also the name of the person by whomi he was
employed or to whom lie furnished the material, with a
statement of the terms, time given, and conditions of his
contract, and also a description of the property to be
charged with the lien, sufficient for identification, which
claim mus.t be verified by the oath of himself or some other
person.
SEC. 1063. I ever' etse ill which one claim is filed
inst two or more buildings, mining claims, or other iraof
ln( \rovements owned by the same peison, the person filing
suh claim luist tit the same time designate the aio1iiit due
. to him on each of such buildings, mining claims or other
iml)rovenents, otherwise the lien of' such claim is postponled
to other liens. Tie lien of such claimant does not
extend beyoi(l the amount designated, as aglinst other
creditors having liens, )y .judgment, mortgage, or otherwise,
up1)oIn either of' such bluildings or other improvements,
or upoI the land upon which the.sane are situated.
SEc. 1064. The recorder must record the claim ill a
book kept by him flr that purpose, whih reord lJmust be
indexed as deeds and other conveyanees aire required by
ltw to be indexe(1, and f'or which lie may receive the smme
ftes as are allowed by law for reeording deeds till(] other
instruments.
SEC. 1065. No lien provided for in this Chiapter
binds anfty building, mining claim, ilprovemlent or sti'uetui'e
loti a longer period than ninety days af'ter the same has
been filed, less proceedings be commenced ill a proper
court within that time to enfbirce the same, or, if' a credit
he given, then niiiety (lays after the expiration of such
credit, but no lien eontilies in force for a longer time than
two years f'rom the time work is 'ompleted, by any agreemient
to give celit.
SEC. 066. All persons entitled to liens on tile struewhere
ture om' imnprovement, except those who ointreted with tile
co-rt
owIier thereof', .re sub-coitiaeters, and the co in te judgment must dlir'ct the ,niount due sub-contractors to be
paid out of the proceeds of' sales, beflore aNy part of' steh
proceeds are paid to the eontractor.
SEC. 1067 . Thi e contra' ctor s1h all, he entitled to recovery
cover up)Ona lien filed iny hi1, only such amoulnt ILs nity
1)e de to hil accoi'ding to tile telrllls Of' his contract, after
deducting all claims of other parties fbr workl done and
materials furnished, ms aforesaid ; and in all cases wheire a
lien shall be filed, finder this Chapter, fbr work done or
materials furnished to auIy contractor, lie shall defefnd any
action brought thereupon at his own expense; and during
the pendency of' such ac.tion, the owner may withhold from
the contractor the amount of money fbr which the lien is
filed; and ill ease of judgment a inst the owner or his
property, upon the lieii, the said owner shall be entitled to
deduct from any anotuint due, or to become due by him to
the contractor, the amount of such judgmenit and costs.
SEC. 1068. In ever'case :in whichi different liens are assrted against, any property, the court in the judg- mnt must declare the ranik of each lien, or elas of'liens,
which 'shall be in the following order, viz: First-All
persons other thanl the original contractors and sub-contractors;
Second-The sub-contrlctors; Third-The original
contractors. And the proceeds of the sale of the
)ropcrty must be ap)plied to each liel, or clats of liens, ill
the order of its rank, and whenever, on the sale of the
l)rdpertv subject to the lien, there is a deficiency of proceedsuidgmeiit
may be docketed for the deficiency in like
anmmer and with like elfect as in actions for the fbreclosure
of mortgages.
SEC. 1069. Any number of persons claiming liens may join or intervene in the same actions, and when sep- state actions are commenced, the court may consolidate
them. The court may also allow, as part of the costs, the moneys paid for filing and recording the lien.
SEC. 1070. Nothing contained in this Chapter shall Ie construed to impair or affct the right of any person to whomi any debt may be duc for work done, or materials frnishlol, to maintain a personml action to recover such
debt against the person liable therefbr.
SEC. 1071. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the provisions of this Code relating to civil ac- new trials and appeals, are applicable to, and consti- tute the rules of practice in the proceedings mentioncl in
this Chapter.
TITLE V.
OF CONTEMr.
SEc. 1076. The following acts or onmissions, ill respect to a court of justice or proceediigs therein, are ctontemlpts of authority of the court:
1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior
toward the judge while holding the court, tending to interrupt
the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding;
2. Breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent
disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of a
trial or other judicial proceeding;
3. Misbehavior in office, or other willful neglect or
violation of duty by an attorney, counsel, clerk, marshal,
sheriff, coroner, or other person appointed or elected to perform
a judicial or ministerial service;
4. Deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of
the court by a party to an action or special proceeding;
5. Disobedience of any lawfui judgment, order or
process of the court;
6. Assuming to be an officer, attorney, counsel of a
court and acting as such without authority;
7. Rescuing any person or property in the custody
of an officer by virtue of an order or process of such court;
8. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an
action while going to, remaining at, or returning from the
court where the action is on the calendar fov trial;
9. Any other unlawful interference with the process
or proceedings of a court;
10. Disobedience of a subpcna duly served, or refusing
to be sworn or answer as a witness;
11. When summoned as a juror in a court, neglecting
to attend or serve as such, or improperly conversing
with a party to an action to be tried at such court, or with
any other person in relation to the merits of such action,
or receiving a communication from a party or other l)erson
in respect to it, without inindiately disclosing the same to
the court;
12. Disobedience, by an inferior tribunal, magistrate,
or officer, of the lawful judgment, order or process of a
sul)erior court, or proceding in an action or special proceeding
cnntnlary to law, after such action or special proceeding
is removed front the jurisdiction of such iiiferior
tribunal, magistrate or officer. Disobedience of the lawful
orders or 1process of a judicial officer is also a contempt of
a the authority of such officer.
Si.-c. 1077. Every plesonl dispossessed or ejected
from or out of any real property, by the judgment or process
of any court of comlletent jurisdiction, and Who, not
having a right so to do, re-enters into or upon, or takes
l.Sses'iUn of any such real property, or inuces or procures
any person not having a right so to do, or aids or
abets him therein, is guilty of a contempt of the court by
which such judgnent was rendered, or from which such
)rocess issued. Upon a conviction for such contempt, the
court or justiec of the peace must immediately issue an
alias lro" dircted to the proper officer and requiring
him to restore the party entitled to the possession of such
property under the original judgment or process to such
possession.
SEC. 1078. When a contempt is committed in the A immediate' view and presence of the court, or jutge at c chambers, it may le punished summarily, for which an thceo order must be nmade, reciting the facts as occurring in such s,,immediate view and presence, adjudging that the person
proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contempt, and that
ie be punished as in Section 1085 of this Code prscribed.
When the contempt is not committed in the immediate comm'ittedaf view and presence of the court or judge at chambers, an dvl, affidavit slall be presented to the court, or judge, of the facts constituting the contempt or a statement of tile facts
by the referees or arbitrators or other judiciail officer.
SEC. 1079. When tile contempt is not committed in A imniediate view and presence of the -court or.judge, a ,warrant of attachment may be issued to bring the person to charged to answer, or, without a previous arrest, a warrant
of commitment may, upon notice, or apon all order to show
cause, be granted; and no warrant of commitment cumin
be issued without such previous attachment to answer, or
such notice or order to show cause.
SEC. 1080. Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued pursuant to this Chapter, the court, or judgeud,g e Ilu~tgiven s,direct by an indoismnemnt on such warramnt, that tle 1person charged may be let to bail for his appearance, in ani.nt warrant.
to be specified in such indorsemnent.
SEC. 1081. Upon executing the warrant of attach- uOlffpico.nient, the officer nmust keep the person in custody, bringi rtesht. him before the court or judlge, an(1 detain him until an thean,order be made in the premises, unless the person arrested discharged.
entitle himself to be diselarged, as provided in the next section. 

SEC. 1082. When a direction to let the person BaI arrested to bail is contained in the warrant of attachment, and or indorsed thereon, he must be disehargeil from the arrest,
upon executing and delivering to the officer, at any tinie
before the return day of the warrant, a written undertaking,
with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that tie
1person arrested will appear oil the return of the warrant, 44
and abide the order of' tile eonirt or judge therelipoii; or
they will pay, as may be directed, the stint specified illth e
wa~rratnt.
A .. .tre restS lf'il'l(.] 1u)8n3d.e rtaTkiineg fo fiitltea'r.n m y, ireueseritve vtloill lb yt ihlheu l wNFarO|ornItl it thfe "it
Ip lersonl arrested, b1.y the I'etulrn(;1l1y sp~ecified therelin.
SI,:O. 10()0"8W-h1e.n tile person aire.ted his len
boulght.l i1)o, r hasl~a ppe~ared , the eOlult or1j. llIge halst been
eeed to ilivestigtC tie lm.elii'ge and niiiit heal' a, a,'nwer
which the leron a'rested may imake to the samt,, 1n1I ini\Y
examiine witnesses tm or aigainst him; fo' which an a(djournnleut
may be had fi'om time to tiltte, it'iee et'.,ksrIIV.
Sec. 1083. Upon tlee answer id evidelIe t.ke, tiele ~lut,; or .iiidge, musl.t d]etermnine whlether tile ])er'.oll
proceeled ag iinsitsg iuilty of' the eoitellIt ehau'ged, and if'
it he adjudged that lie is guilty of the contempt, a hile illuV
lie im)oed (,)(I him not exee~lin g two liui'dred dolla'us, 1r
hle ay be il'isolned n t exeefti hg five days , M: both.
SEC. 1086. When the coitemipt ('nsi.sts ill thit'
(1itiI, m iiln t IpI e(rl'low irl all att enjoined Ihv law, which is r't
o niimmlly tiNt 1 C ()' the Ieef to iiert'l'tl, he Iay be iln-
e' luin t il lie h a v e pe r,rl ulde it, o r uI( lil re le a se d b %"
the eoiu't, and, illt hat 'ase, tilatc!t Iniiist be specified illt he
wari'ralit of' comlitIlent.
SEC. 1087. When the Waral'n11t (fa''rest has beenrlc -
o .tu dlltl ,er'ved, if' the peli'.:oUll'lea ted do not api)etr Of; thie
return day, tihe eon rt, jjud-ge , nY isse auother warrant
of .'let, (' hily tre' the llilertalking to be prosecuted,
oh' hoth. If' thIe uldertakiun- he p'oseut|, tIle ieasure
of' dalliages ill tite action is the extelit of, tile loss or ilijiur'y
sustained by tlit aiggriev('i party by reasotn'I tit' liisolldu't
fCol whi'ch the ilwarrallt was isiled, and the .t s of* the
p'ocx'eedhig.
SEC. 1088. WVhenever, by the 'provisionso f' tis
airier, ,111 ofliceer is requiredl to;k eep I lel'.-onal'rested, on
a warrll;ilt of attaceilent, ilnc ustody, and to bring ilim Ile-
1,lre a court, tl' judge, tile inability, f'rohilllnie ss o' otherwisi',
of' the personl to attend, is a sil'ieieint exeuse fir not
iil'hlg'ilg hil)111 ; an1d t fil el'l mii t nutiet' olifi,lilp een '4on
• u"'sted lipoii tile wai'rrant, in a prison, o' oithierwise i'eSti'ail,
him of personal liberty, except So IaI' as Ily be necessar'v
to Sec're his Ipe'soll zi litltenida'e.
TITLE VI.
V'OLNTAIIY lDIR1l "7l'rON O1F C()lilP(oIATI(Ns.
Si.c'. 109-i. A .orlpo)ration I'iiiV be dissoviedV l ilytI h district c(urt I tile' d istri(ct whirl' its oiel. o1 ri lvipal
lfI'o isi ness is sit uiated, uapon its vol udalli ' yl alppli eation f*urtIh at p)urpo(se.
SEC. 1089. The aplii('atioll IIIust lie il wl'itinlg, a1nd lmul1st set -forth1: I. Iai t l :1 Inetill of ti estovkhlxlders or memesl's
'ai'd hibfr that pluoOSe, the dissoltion of' the clorl)oration
was resoivel tpj)n 1w a two-tiiii'd vote: of 1ll tile stoekholder's
or. memb~ers ;
2. That ail the cl.tims and (hellilds against the ('o)-
lpratioln havn'e 1been sattisfied and disc1hnrged.
SEC. 1090. The :ill)liC:Itioll 111(st lie signed hy a I'uljoritv of' tle b oa'd of trustees, dnlvlt'I's, or other ofllhetrs li ,l Il t I Icsrified.
iiavilig te lllal:igelliellt of, the aflai's of, the corlporation ,
.and Iust he verified ini the same nIIaileer as a .omlfaint in
;I eivil action.
SEC. 1097. Ii' tile juIngu, is satisfied that tihe allli- vatioll is ill (onfi)ormitv with this ('hapiter he nst order it be filed with the cle'rk, and that th' cerk give not Iess than thirty nloal iit(i o f* the alllication1l, iy Jl(l)li(lItioll illom nlO eW)I: I pililied ill the( distrit; and it' there.
:1111 n,,ne( such'l, then lbyY avertisements, p~osted 11l ) ill thnree(
of tie pil'rincilpal iulblic, lahces ill ile Coillity whelre its oflhe
411,iprinc.ipal place( ofI' b~usiness is sitiuated.
Ii lli SoIi,'1 'p. tu1b0li9ca8n.t io)nA, t a'my vpllte irmsoem t)nelIufIotY ref letihhl e ehxisli r,a)lt)ijo(,l(nti onolfs thtlo .he apill icatioll.
SEC. 1098. Aftel r ile, time, (If' tlllli('i.ltil h'sif eX- li,ro
])i)l-141 1]If1. vourl a. y, 11V)))l l fi\'( da v, tI)o|it(' to) t]he lw]ns1) , who have' filedl ob~jetio)ns, or witho';t ('111-ther' notic'e, it' no
o)ltic.i(ns h'a'e l)(,vc filed, lpro)v.ed to) heal. and dIeternmil,
t!:e appllic.atio)n; 'hl ii, aIll theIn temens tlni'ein made :aur'e
shIownl to) I)v true, he must deh.l-rv tihc (.m-p)(ration dilssolved.
SEC. 1099. ~ ~h .ll1i1v). ati,)lnnoticevs,andlpr(o)()lbu- Iivatio nl, )l i(: l s, if' ; \, and deh l "I'tin o)f d isso)lntioll , (, ,n stitl tc th( , jnI 1:g mn n r -.4 , a nd fi- ,)l t th (j.i ld " I nv t all l)-
peal tonay be taken as Fr'om .jud'n nnts ill other (ivil ac.tio,.
TITLE VII.
OF EMINENT DOMAIN.
SEC. 1105. Subject to tile plovisions of this Chapmuy
tel', the right of eminent domain may be exercised in behalf
of the following public uses:
I Public buildings and grounds for the use of the
rerritory, andi all other public uses authorized by the Legislature;
2. Public buildings and grounds for the use of any
county, incorporated city, village, town or school district,
canals, aqueducts, flumes, ditches or pipes for conducting.
water for the use of the inhabitants of any county, incorpor'ated
city, village or town; or for draining any county,
incorporated city, village or town; raising tile banks of
streams, removing obstructions therefrom, and widening,
deepening or straightening their channels; roads, streets
and alleys, and all other public uses for tile benefit of any
county, incorporated city, village, or town, or tile inhabitants
thercof;
3. Wharves, docks, piers, chutes, booms, ferries,
bi'idges, toll roads, by-roads, plank and turnpike roads,
steam and horse railroads, canals, ditches, flumes, aqueducts,
and pipes for public trans )ortation, supplying llines
and far'ming neighborhoods witi water, and draining and
reclaining lainds atid for floating logs and lumber on
streams not navigable;
4. Roads, tunnels, ditches, fitlnes, pipes and dul)-
ing plat flor working mines; also outlets, natural 6r otherwise,
fbr the flow, deposit, or conduct of tailings or refuse
matter frol mines; also ani occupancy in common by the
owners or poss.essors of difflerent mines of' any place for the
flow, deposit or conduct of tailings or refuse matter from
tlicir several mines;
5. By-roads leading from high ways to residences and
farms;
6. Te!egraph lines;
7. Sewerage of any incorporated city.
estateSs 

SEC. 1106. s iTnh el anfodlsl oswuibnjge cti s toa cblea sstaifkiceant iofno r opfu btlhiec righi us: condemnrtion.
1. A fee simple, when taken for public buildings or
grounds, or for permanent buildings, for reservoirs ani
dams, and permanent flooding occasioned thereby, or fir an
outlet for a flow, or a place for the deposit of debris or
tailings of a mine;
2. An easement, when taken for any other use;
3. The right of entry upon and occupation of lands,
and the right to take therefrom such arth, gravel, skonies,
trees and timber as may be necessary for some publia use.
Szc. 1107. The. ivatepropertywliieh may be taken
tinder this Chapter inclules: defined.
1. All real property belonging to any person;
2. Lands belonging to this Territory, or to any
county, incorporated city, village or town, not appropriated
to some public use;
3. Property appropriated to public use; hut such
property shall not be taken unless for a more necessary
public use than that to which it has been already appropriated;
4. Franchises for toll-roads, toll bridges and ferries,
and all other franchises; but such franchises shall not be
taken unless for free highways, railroads, or other more
necessary public use;
5. All rights of way for any and all purposes mentioned
in Section 1105, and any anti all structures and
impqrovements thereon, and the lands held or used in connection
therewith, shall be subject to be connected with,
crossed, or intersected by any other right of way or improvements
or structures thereon'. They shall also be subject to
a limited use in common with the owner thereof; when
neecssary; but such uses of crossings, intersections and
connections, shall be made in manner most compatible
with the greatest public benefit anid least private injury;
6. All classes of" private property not enit;eanted,
may be taken f'or public use, when such taking is authorized
by law.
SEC. 1108. Before property can be taken it must appear: ipr a 118court 1. That the use to which it is to be applied is a isc authorized by law:
2. That the taking is necessatry to such use;
3. If aheady appropriated to some public use, that
the public use-to which it is to be applied is a more necessa'y
public use.
SEC. 1109. In til ses where aind is required for
.e i liv Ise, the Ter'itorv or its agents ill charge of such lse,
t eystviel(y] locate tie same; bit it imist be loclted in
thle Iil1neliell which will Ibe most (Ollpatil)Ie with tile greatest
plublic good and the least private injury, and siliject to the
I'ov1isions of tiis Cliapter. "le i'i'it( iV its 1 gel)ts ill
charge of such liblic Ilse, Il1y (iter up0 the hld and
make exal1t1 11 ioils, sMi've's, and 1,aps thecol, and such
cnti' v shall constitutc 21o cause of, action ill Bilvor of* the
ovIers of1 tile lands, except for ijii ries reslilting fraon
nieltgligen', Wi|IlItoII(4is., o1 I2111ice.
SEC. 111. All pir(evi'(iings under this (hapter uiust
he 1brought ill the district ci't for the listrict ill which the
property is sitiltvl. Tl'heV luist he coimmleleed by tililg I
c'oillpiaiiut and is1i nq : sLu5 11 lh ereon.
n S ix.. I I11 T h e vo l l a i l l t m ust 1 1c o n ta i n;
I. 'hle litli( (t' the co'porationi, :s..iciatiil, 'oin lli.-
sioli, or I)' 1 s' 1 2 ill (.]ili'ge Of' ile J )ildi' use fla' which the
p2rol)erty" is so1ight, who iuist be styled Iplaintit;
2. The names of all owiicrs and claim:ts of the
lirolierty, if known, or a statcmenit that they are fi ik nown,
w i must ibe styuled defei!ldants;
3. A statement i1,tth e right ,tt'h e plilitill';
It1' . : right of way.l ie sought, the complaint luist
show tile locallyon, -leral route and terminli, and 11u1st b~e
a:cOIlpalicl1 with a iap thereof; s1o Iu' as the s:iiie is
involved in the action or proceediipg.
5. A deseription of echipli ec of 1:111d sowght to be,
taken, and whether the same iiiliides the wol(he r ,only
part (I1' an entire i acel or tim't. All p''1tvls lying in Ilii,
saime judic~ial di.-trict and rquird fo~r tlhe samev public lst,
,,11v G~e inc'luded ill tile same or separ:Uate lproceecdill~r. at tile
option ot' tile plaiuititl' but the '(urt ,may c,s.olinlate o(r
sepiarat' tteill, to Si ut the 4 vei ici'e of parties.
SEC. 12. The clei'k ititist issie a Stiiilloniis, which
tmuscto ntain the nalies of' the pai'tics, it gc'ieral de.-'ilptioIi
of' th dele prOperty, it statement Of' thI' Imilic use fo4r
which it is sought, and a reft reive to thli. iomplafiirint
decriptions of' tile respe\'ctive parels(, mId i nottie t thie
td tdl ef 1:l4ts to .1pe ;11d1 (ast hiw c-' wVlhy the i 1("t y
duciril ccd should not lie volidllincd .tsp rnavd fta in tl(
4'oiilllaillt. Ill all other )artic.ulars it 1uiiist Ie ill tie iormi
(,4a slimilions in civil a'tilsl, an1141tst Ie servcd in like
IIlh1lllt'41'.
Sec. 1113. All persons ill occllation of, or havitig wiw....or Claiii an interest ilalt y of the property described the (omp1l)h t, r ii the daiiages flo' the taking therolf,
thouigh not nat ied, lay aer, l anl llt'i(, eaeh Iii res'pet to his own property or interest, or that cie 'bLt 'd.e hi,) in like ntner as ifn'a nied inl the ,eomplaiiit.
Sec. 1114. 'he (o1rt o1' judge tlhereof Shll have JL )oV 'i': I: tie l11,~ (o ljcgjS 1S e ]. T dtehtel 'lqllitlll ei titll,s;p cilld il sec I 11-08 anlld re"Illhate ald(d eterminle tilt p~lace and IIl:l111clO'| 'v:1ilking conIilectLion's and crossings, o' fI eijcing the v.l(,t•-. ,ra0m llSCe mntioned ill the( fiffstubhd i\isi~m, o' cvtionu 1107;
2. Tlo heuar :inl(,letermine all adver-se or conili,.ling
climis to the pllertY solight to be eoiLdvlniid, and to tile
dami ages li't'frel'r
"'I', determille tile reslswtive right's o' (diM.1rcut
partiLs sekilt' oemnation tite' sa i pr,o Lety.
.T:h. 1e1 15co.u rtl, .jll.'V,o r' r fIv'ee 1llls, Iwa Such legll tesiilit'v as mitt be 'LIedb v ally o,'t hel iara'--
ties to tIh e pi; 'edfi ig.', and tflerui lli (' st ascert'dn and
1ISSeS.
2. Tfhi t' ftihllegllti(L o' tto't. ' s, ight ti be volldlmi
ed, a.il l ll im ola I velniviis't 'l t thre-e rain g ' t |l le
Ii''ei't'V t flit'l d lo,l 't Ll d eve sIl ig l l'L LeS estate olr interest
therin; it'i t e l sists ' iliiofr ei lpta rcels, tile \Ll ie oif' eM-1h lI:U-Cel lod ech1 esttate (11i' nltertehLersettil Slhall be Sep-
:L'ii ,l i sseas sedt ; l
L Lt' tile prperty Sought lit' ictdmned constitltes
t11l a part it' s hr'gv pa'cel, tlhe daci('ihSg lesi e\v2i it'
accrLie to the purtill not smght t l'l ec ldeiilud, by
llSOil I'it ' tushe veslsl e fio'll tile oti one i Sollgilt It1b toldelliuied,
ald the totl'l.eit't i oel iillipei i nilt il the
mannler. lrolpos(4 by" the plilltill';
3. plraely hle\\- lltte poliol 1lot soughit, to
ie cian1delled, and wh eitate or interest thelviin, will he
h .lliteid,t ' Itti llh,Y t ile tottn'tsio n of the il proivel'ilelJ]
it L I fli' I) tile Jl(llhihl ';i i d 'itiltel leet' l slIall lte
e~qual totll e (1,ilniages .1Sis sd, tinder Suildivison 2, the
OWilerl' ft he i ll'e sSh1a,1l1l e il1hOwV O 1 t01Iile iitll V~Xcelpl,
fthe \'.tilue of' the pourtion takien; but it'tl he bleneftt
shll lt ~.es tlatitnil e dileS jS,4lseStSiele! d1,.6j1l nel" Shalll]
bie dedueled t'l'otiilne latter,iaudn l le renuahnder shall| be tile
oly) diniiges alllowed ill addition to tile Vallue;
-tIt,'- fi e rely soughit to bieC ondenined bief in. ii
rnailroad thie vt't of' -;ml~d :i ll] Suflieilt t i,t utcgr lhe
line of such railroad between such rail'oad, and other adjoining
lands of the defendant;
5. As far as practicable, compensation must be assessed
for each source of damages separately.
SEC. 1116. For the l)urpose of assessing comlpensac
tiI and daimages, tile right thereto Shall be deemed to
- havlne accrued at the (late of the suillnons, and it0s acitt ua1l value 'at that date shall be the niesuire of' coiliensation
for all property to be actually taken, and the basis of damages
to properiy not actually taken, but in-juriously affected,
in all cases where such damages are allowei, a1s
lrovided in 'he last section. No improvements put upon
the lroperty sul)seq1uent to the date of' the service of suimnlO0s,
shall be included in the assessment of coml)ensation
or damages.
SEc. 1117. If tile title attempted to be acquired is
found tt be defective friom any cautise, tile lulaintiflimay ayain
found to be def I g,,
institute proceedings to acquire the same, as in this Chapter
)iescribed.
i
sEC. 1118. The plaintiff niust, within thirty days
de...'.I fter final judgi ent, pay tile sun of ionexy asscssed in
resl)ect to tie laud taken and also execute to tihe (lelin(ant
a bond, with sureties to be approved by tine court, or judge
thereof, in double the assessed cost of' constructing good
and suflicient fences as provided in Subdivision 4, of Section
1115, conditioned that the plainitill shall biiild such
tfnce within twelve months from the time the railroad is
built on or over the land taken, and the defendant or his
grantees, in case of a breaclf of the conditions of said
bond, may have an action thereon, and recover all damages
sustain d and the cost of constructing such fences, and
when collected such damage.- and costs shall be paid into
court, and that portion consisting of the estimated cost of
fenicing musit be applied to that purpose under the direction
of the court.
SEC. 1119. Payment may be made to the defendants
uniitlcd thereto, or tile money may be deposited in court
for tie debmndants, and be distriluted to those entitled
thereto. If the money be not so paid or deposited, the defendants
may have execution as in civil cases; and if the
money cannot beI made on execution, the court upon a
showing to that effect, nmist set aside and annul the entire
proceedings, and restore' posse.sion of time property to the
deflndant if' possession h~ls been taken by tile plaintifl.
SEC. 1120. When payments have been made and the bond given, if' the plaintiff elects to give one, as required condematiu,
I)v the last two sections, the court must make a final order 'What oif condemnation, which must describe tile property Condemned
and tile plpose of' such condemnation. A coly
of' the order nust l)e filed iti the office of the recorder of the county, an( thereupon the property described therein titvlees shall ve st ill the plaintifl' for the pu'pose therein specified.
Sec. 1121. At any time afle' trial anld judgment entered, or' pending 111 appeal froma the ,juidgnenit to the supreme court, whenever the lplaintitf sill have paid into
court f'or the defendant, the full aniotit of' the ju(lgnent,
and stich further stim a 1i,11 le remluired by the 'oirt ts a
flnd to pay anyl)' further daillages and costs that may be recovered
in said proceedings, as well as 111 damages that
may be sustained by the defendltt if'fi r any cause the
property shall linolte ftinally taken fbr' public use, the district
court in which the proceeding was tried may, 11pon
notice of' not less than ten days, authorize the pltintill', if'
already ii possession, to contiue therein, atnd if' not, then
to take possession of' and use the property dul'ing tile
pen(dellcy of and until tile fitnal conclusion of' the litigation,
and may, if' ncessary, stay all actions and proceedings
against tile plaintiff oil aeolit thereof. The defendant,
wlo is entitled to the money paid into court fur himn 1l)O1t
1i1, Judgment, shall be entitled to deinand anti receive the
same at any time thlerf'mtfi'er uponl obtainintg anl order theref'r
from tile court. It shall be the diuty of the court, o1' a
Judge thereof, upon application being made by such lefcndalt,
to order and direct that the 1)1o1ey so paid into court
fi'r hitn be delivered to him uipo1h)i s filing a satisfietioi of
the judgment, o!1lip oln his filing a receipt therefor, and an
abandonltellt of ilI defenses to the action oi1 proceeding,
except as to the amount of damages that lie may be entitled
to in the event that a new trial shall be gralitcl. A pay-
Illenlt to a defildant, as afli'esaid, slhall be Ield to be an
aiantdonment by suchl defetldant of, all defenises interposed
l)v li iy, excepting Iis el-till fotrI greatel' coln pel.t jotl.
Sec. 1122. Costs tay be allow( o1 not, 11111 if allowed, tuay be alplpo'tionied between tie par'ti-s ol the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the court. SEC. 112. Except as othierwise provided ill this Chapter, the provisions of' this Code relativye to civil aetiolls and new trials and appeal, atre applicable to and constitute the rules of p,'aetice illth e proceedlings i,!t his Ciapter.
SEC. 1124. Nothing in this Code must be construed
toof apbrroopgearttey oirn raenpeya lc iatyn yo rs ttaotwutne fporro svtirdeientg p ufropro stehse. taking
TITLE VIII.
OF C1hANGE OF NAMES.
SEC. 1128. Applications for change of names nmust
be heard and determined by the district courts.
SEC. 1129. All applications for change of names
ust be made to the district court of the judicial district
where the person whose name is l)roposc(l to be changed
resides, by petition, signed by such person; and if such
person is under tWenty-onue yars of it'ge, by one of the parcts,
if living; or if both be dead, then by the guardian;
and if there e no guardian, then by some near relation or
friend. The petition must specify the place of birth and
residence of such person, his or her present me, the name
proposed, and the reason for such change of name, and
must, if the father of such person be not living, name as
thr as known to the petitioner, the near relatives of such
person, and -their place of residence. Any religious, beof.
nevolent, literary or scientific corporation, or any corporation
bearing or having for its mie or using or being
known by the name of any benevolent or charitable order,
or society, may, by petition, apply to the district court of the
.judicial district in which the property of said corporation
is situated, for a change of its corporate name. Such petition
must be signed by the trustees of the corporation, or
by a majority of them, and must specify tile date of the
formation of the corporation, its present name, the name
proposed, and the reason for such change of name. Upon
filing such petition on behalf of such corporation, the samne
proceedings must be had as upon application for changes of
name of natural persons.
SEC. 1130. A copy of such petition must be pubpetition
lished for four sueccssive weeks, in some newspaper
printed in the judicial (lFstrict, if a nwespaper be printed
* therein, but if no newspaper be printed in the judicial district,
a copy of such petition must be posted for a like
period at three of the most public places in the county in
which the property of such corporation is situated, or in
which the petitioner resides, if the petition is for the
change of the name of a natural person, and proofs must
be made of such publication or posting before the petition
can be considered.
SEC. 1131. Such application must be heard at such time during the term as the court nmay appoint, and o1- .ections may be filed by any person who can, in such ob- jections, show to the court good reasons against such
change of name. On the hearing the court may examine
upon oath, any of the petitioners, remonstrants, or other
persons, .touching the application, and may mske an
order changing the name or dismissing the application, as
to the court may seem right and proper.
TITLE IX.
OF ARBITRATION.
SEc. 1135. Persons capable of contracting may sub- mit to arbitration any controversy which might be the subject of it civil action between them, except a question of title to real property in fee or for life. This qualification
(toes not include questions relating merely to the partition
or boundaries of ral property.
SEC. 1136. The submission to arbitration must be Sl,,,,in writing and may be to one or more persons, 
SEC. 1137. It may be stipulated in the submission Submis.that it be entered s an order of ttie" court, for which pr- obred pose it must be filed with the clerk of the court where the court.
parties, or one of them reside. The clerk must thereupon
enter in his register of actions a note of the submission,
with the names of the parties, the names of the arbiitrators,
the date of sulmission, when filed, and the time limited
by the submission, if' aly', within which tile award,
must be made. When so enterexl, the subiniis4iol eullmot
-be revoked without the consent of both parties. The arbitrators
may be compelled by the court to make an award,
and the award may be enforced by the court in the same
manner as a judgment. If the submission is not made an
order of the court, it may be revoked at any time before
the award is made.
SEC. 1138. Arbitrators have power to appoint a
time and place for hearing, to adjourn from time to time
to administer oaths to witnesses, to hear the allegttions and
evidence of the pa'ties, and to make an award thereon.
SEC. 1139. All the arbitrators must meet and act tobdietterrtmoInnec
eh during tie investigation, but when met, a majority
may determine any question. Before acting, they must be
sworn befbre an officer authorized to administer oaths,
faithfully and fairly to hear and examipne the allegations
and evidence of the parties in relation to the matters in
controversy, and to make a just award according to their
understanding.
SEC. 1140. The award nmst be in writing signed by
the arbitrators, or a majority of them, and delivered to
the parties. When the submission is made an order of the
court, the award must be filed with the clerk, and a note
thereof made in his register. After the expiration of five
days from the filing of the award, upon the application of
a party, and on filing an affidavit showing that notice of
filing the award hasbeen served on the adverse party or
his attorney, at least Pbur da)s prior to such application,
and that no order staying the (ntry of judgment has been
served, the award must be entcied by the clerk in thejudgnent
book, and thereupon has the effect of a judgment.
SEC. 1141. The court, On motion, may vacate the
awalr(l upon any of the following grounds, and may order
a new hearing, before the same arbitrators, or not, in its
discretion :
1. That it was procured by corruption or fraud;
2. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct oe
committed gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postl)
one' the hearing, or in refusing to hear pertinent evidence,
or otherwise acted iniproperly, in a manner by which the
rights of the party were prejudiced;
. 3. That the arbitrators exce'cled their powers in
nmaki g their award; or that they refused, or improperly
oitted to consider a part of the matters submitted to
them; or that the award is indefinite, or cannot be perfimrned.
SEC. 1142. The court may, oln motion, modify or correct the award when it appeaTs: 1. That there was a miscalculation in figures uponward° which it was made, or that there is a mistake in the
description of some person or property therein;
2. When a part of the award is upon matters not
submitted, 'which part can be selarated from other parts
and does not affect the decision on the matter submitted;
3. When the award, though imperfect in form,
could have been amended if it had been a verdict, or the
imperfection disregarded.
Sec. 1143. The decision upon either motion is sub- jeet to appeal in the same inanner as an order wlich is I subject to appeal in a civil action; but the judgment, if entered before a motion is made, cannot be subject to appeal.
SEC. 1144. If a submission to arbitrntion be re- voiced, and an action be brought therefor, tile amount to yoked be recovered cnn only be the costs 1(d the damages sus- tained in p)reparing for and attending tie arbitration. TITLE X.
SEc. 1149. Courts take judicial notice of the follow- ing flets: 1. The trac signification of.all English words and phrases, and of al legal expressions; 2. Wlhatevr is established by law;
3. Public and private official acts of the legislative,
executive and judicial department of this Territory and of.
the United States;
4. The seals of all the courts of this Territory and
of the United States;
5. The accession to office and the official signatures
and seals of office of the principal officers of government
in the legislative, executive and judicial departments of this
Territory and of the United States;
6. The existence, title, national flag, and seal of
every state or sovereign recognized by the executive power
of the United States;
7. The seals of courts of admirality and maritime
jurisdiction, and of notaries public;
8. The laws of nature, the measure of time, and the
geognaphical .divisions and political history of the world.
In all these ca.ses the court may resort for its aid to
Ipropriate books or documents of reference.
SEC. 1154. All persons, without exception, otherpable
wise than is speified in the next. two sections, who, having
coinlmu.
organs of sense, can perceive, an(l, perceiving, Can make
known their perceptions to others, may be witnesses.
Therefore, neither parties nor other persons who have an
interest in the event of an action or proceeding are excluded;
nor those who have been convicted of crime; nor
persons on account of their opinions on matters of religions
belief; although, in every case the credibility of the
witnies may be drawn in question, by the manner in
which he .estifiesb, y the character of his testimony, or by
evidence aiffecting his character for truth, honesty, or integritv,
or his motives, or by contradictory evidence; and the
jruy are the ( xelusive judges of his credibility.
SEC. 1151. The10 olowing persons cannot be witcannot
nessLe 1. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of
their production ,)r examination;
2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable
of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting
which they are e;,amined, or of relating them truly;
3. Parties or asignofis of parties to an action or proeding,
or persons in whose behalf an action or proceeding
is Prosecuted, against an executor or administrator upon
a claim or demand against the estate of a deceased person,
as to any matter of fhct occurring before the death of such
deceased person, and equally within the knowledge of both
the witness and the deceased person.
SEc. 1156. There are particular relations in which it the l)oicy of' the law to encourage confidence and to pretaln serve it inviolate, therefore a person cannot be examined as a witness in the followilIg eas es:
1. A husband cannot be examinedl for or against his
wife, without her consent, nor a vil'o for or against her husband,
without his consent; nor can either, during the marriage
or afterward, be, without the consent of the otler, exanined
as to any comnunication made by one to the other
during the marriage; but this exce-ption'does not apply to
a civil action or Proceeding by one against the other, nor to
a criminal action or Proceeding fir a crime committed by
one against the other
2. An attorney cannot, without the consent of his
client, be examined as to any communication made by the
client to him, or his advice given therein ill the course of
Professional employment;
3. A clez'gziman O'r priest cannot, without tie consent
of the person making the conf'ession, be examined as to any
confession made to him in his lrolssional character in the
course of' discipline enjoined by the church to which he
belongs;
4. A physician or surgeon canot, without the consent
of' his patient, be examined in a civil action as to any
information acquired ill attending the lpatient which was
necessary to enable him to Prescribe or act for the Patient;
5. A Public officer cannot be examined as to cornnmunications
made to him inlof ficial confidence when the
public interests would sufker by the diselosure.
SEc. 1157. The judge himself or any *juror lmabey juIge (caled as a witness by either party ; but in such c'ase it is in the discretion of the court to order the trial to be postponed
or suspended, and to take place before another judge
or jury.
SEC. 1158. When "a witness docs not IIIIdemI'St4d Iud when the English language, an interpreter must be shown preter fsworn] to interpret fbr him. Any person may be summoned
by any court or judge to appear )efore such court or judge
to act as interpreter in any action or proceeding. ile
sunnons must be served and returned in like manner as a
sul)prm. Aniy person so sunnoned who fails to attend at
tile time and place named in the summons is guilty of a
contempt.
SEC. 1163. Every citizen has a right to inspect and
take a copy of tiny public writing of this 'Territory, except
as otherwise expressly provided by statute.
SEC. 1164. Every public oflicer having the custody
iosf bito punudb litco wgirvieti nhgi,m w, hoine id ean mciatnizde, na hcearst itthiee dr icgohpt yt oo ifn sipt,e cotn,
payment of the legal fee.s therefor.
SEc. 1165. Statutes are publie or private. A lrivate
svtiadtuuatels , isa nodn e uwfthleitcsh ocnolnyc etrhnesi ro nplyri vcaetret airni gdhetss.i gnaAtelld oitnhdei-r
statuites are public, in whic-.'h are included statutes creating
or lfdbcing corlorations.
SEC. 1166. Jubli ' writings are divided into four
classes:
1. Laws;
2. Judicial records;
3. Other official (locilmnents;
4. Public records kept in this Territory, of private
wl iting..
Sec. 1167. Books printed or published under the
authority of'.a State, Territory or foreign country, and lrto
porting to contain the statutes, code, or other written law
of such State, Territory, or country, or proved to be commonly
admitted in the tribunals of' suich State, Territory
or country as evildene of' the written law thereof, are admissible
in this Territory as evidence of such law.
Sec. 1168. A copy of the written law or other piubpublic
lie writing of any State Territory or country, attested by
tile certiliate of the oflicer having charge of tile original
under the pubilie seal of the State, Territory or country is
adlmissible as evidence of such law or writing.
Sec. 1169. The oral testinionv of' witnesses skillel
therein is admissible as evidence of the unwritten law of
Territori/etSs ta.te , other Territory, or foreign country, as a'e also
printed and published books of reports of' decisions of' the
courts of such State, Territory or country, commonly admitted
in such courts.
SEC. 1170. Tile recitals in it public statute are con- elusive evidence of the fact recited, for the purpose of carrying it into efect, but no fiarther. The recitals in a
private statute are conclusive evidence between parties who
claim under its provisions, but no further.
SEC. 1171. A judicial record is the record or official entry of the proceedings in a court of justice, or of the official act of a judicial officer, in an action or special proceding.
SEc. 1172. A judicial record of this Territory, or of the United States, may be proved by the production of the original, or by a copy thereof certified by the clerk or other
person having the legal custody thereof. That of a State
or other Territory may be proved by tle attestation of the
clerk and the seal of the court annexed, if there be a clerk
and seal, together with a certificate of the chicfjudge or
presiding magistrate, that the attestation is in due form.
SEC. 1173. Ajudicial rccor(l ofa foreign country may proved by the attestation of the clerk, with the sea! of the court annexed, if there be a cle-k and seal, or of the legal keeper of the record, with tie seal of his office annexed,
if there be a seal, together with a certificate of the chief
judge or presiding magistrate, that tile person making the
attestation is the clerk of the court, or the legal keeper of
the record, and, in either c ase, that the signature of such
person is genuine, and that the attestation is in due form.
Tie signature of the chief judge or presiding magistrate
must be authenticated by the certificate of the minister or
embassador, or a consul, vice-consul, or consular agent of
the United States in such foreign country.
SEC. 1174. A copy 6f the judicial record of a for- eign country is also admissible in evidence upon proof: 1. That the copy offered has been compared by the witness with tile original, and is an exact transcript of the
whole of it;
2. That such original was in the custody of the
clerk of the court, or other legal keeper of the same ; and,
3. That the copy is duly attested by a seal which is
proved to be the seal of the court where the record
remains, if it be the record of a court; or if there be no
such seal, or if it be not a record of a court, by the signature
of the legal keeper of the original.
fopffoiival. as folSloew.s : 1175. Other official doeumentsnmay be proved.
n 1.. Acts of the executive of this Territory, by the'
,records, and ,f the United States, by. the records of the
dcpartments of' the United States certified by the hacds of
those departments rcsl)ectively. They may also be proved
by public docuiments, printed by the order of the legislature
or Congress, or either house thereof; '
2. The proceedings of the legislature of this Ter-,
ritory ;or of Congress, by the journals of those bodies
respectively, or either house thereof, or by published
statutes or resolutions, or by copies certified by the clerk,
or printed by their order;
3. The acts of the executive or the proceedings of
the legislature of a State or other Territory in the same
manner;
4. The acts of* the executive, or the proceedings of
the legislature of a foreign country, by journals published
by their authority, or commonly received in that country
as such, or by it copy certified under the seal of the country
or sovereign, or by a recognition thereof in some public
act of the executive of the United States;
5. Acts of a nmnicipal corporation of, this Territory
or of a board or department thereof; by a copy, certified
by tho, legal keeper thereof, or by a printed hook published
by die"anthority of such corporation;
6_ Documents of any other class in this Territory,
by the-%riginal, or by a copy, certified by the legal keeper
thereof;
7. Documents of any other class in a State or Territory,
by the original, or by a copy, certified by the legal
keeper thereof, together with the certificate of the secretary
of state, judge of the supreme, superior, circuit, district, or
oilnty court, or mayor of a city of suich State or Territory,
that lie copy is duly certified by the officer having the legal
(UstC.ly of t';e original
PD.o i 4iinents of any other class ini a foreign country,
by thc origw'ial, or by it copy, certified by the legal kecper
thereof, wi., t certificate under seal of the country
or sollereigim1 t the doctmnnt is a valid and subsisting
docmumilent ofIsuch countrv, and that the copy is duly certified
by the Ifficer having the legal custody of the original
;
9. l)ovmiients in the departments of the United
Stattc. goverfinent, by the certificate of the legl cutodian
there:of.
SEC. 1176. A.. .~ .public record of a )riv/ate writi9n1. [ may be proved by the original record or By a copy therco , private certified by tie legal keeper of the reord. 
SEC. 1177. Entries in publie or other official books or records, made in the perfornmance of his (luty by a pub- lic officer of this Territory or by any other persbn in the perfornice of a duty specially enjoined by law, are prima
facie evidence of the ficts stated therein.
SEC. 1178. A transcript from the record or docket of a justice of' the peace of' a State or other Territory, of a judgment rendered by hini of the proceedings in the action
before the judgm ent of the execution and return, if tiny,
subscribed 6y tile justice an(l verified in the manner preseril)
ed in tfe next section, is admissible evidence of tile
fhets stated therein.
SEC. 1171. There ,nust be attached to the transcript
.t certificate of' the iastice that the tran cript is in al1 respects correct, an(1 that he had jurisdiction of' the action,
and also a further certificate of tie clerk or prothonotary
of the county in which the justice is a resident at the time
of rendering the judgment under the seal of the county, or
the seal of the court of common pleas or county court or
court of general jurisdiction thercof, certifying that the
•person subscribing the trans'ript wats, at the date of the
judgment, a justice of the peace in the county, and that the
signature is genuine. Such .judgment, proceedings, and
juilsdiction may also be provel by the justice himself, on
the production of his docket, or bi a cop'y of the judgment,
and( his oral examination as a witness.
SiEc. 1180. Whenever a copy of a writing is certi- fied for thei rpupose of evidence, the certificate must state ti sibstance that the copy is at correct copy of the original, or
of a specified part thereof, as the ease may be; the certificate
must be under the official seal of the certifying oflicer,
if' there be any, or if lie l)e the clerk of' a court having a
seal, tinder the seal of suc.h court.
SEc. 1181. A certificate of' ltircliase, or of location of any lands in this Territory, issued or made il pursuance of' any law of tile United States, is priiary evidlen'e that the l'lider or assignee of su(ch certificate is the owner of
the land descritil therein; but this evilence may be overconie
by proof that, tit the time of the.locaition, or time of'
filing a pre-emption claim on which the certificate may have
been issued, tI.e land was in the adverse possession of' the
adverse party, or those uinder whom lie claims, or that the
alverse party is holding the lnd for mining lurposes.
SEC. 1182. An entry made by an officer, or board of
officers, or under the direction and in the presence of
either, in the course of official duty, is prma facie evidence
of the facts stated in such entry.
CIIAp'rER IV.
Private 1l"1iings.
SEc. 1187. Private Writhigs are either:
1. Sealed; or,
2. Unsealed.
SEC. 1188. A seal is a partioular sign, made to
attest in the most fbrmal inanner, the execution of an instrumient.
SEC. 1189. A public seal in this Territory is a
stamp or impression mnade by a public officer with an inmade.
struient 1)rovided by law, to attest time execution of an
official or public document; upon the paper, or upon any
substance attached to the paper, which is capable of receiving
a visible impression. A private seal may be nmade
in the same manner by any instrument, or it may be made
by a scroll of the pen, or by writing the word "sJ "
against the signature of the writer. A scroll or other sign,
nmde in a State or other Territory or foreign country, and
recognized as a seal, must be so regardedl in this Territory.
SEC. 1190. Historical works, books of science or
art, and published maps or lmrts, when made by )ersons
indiflerent between tile parties, are prina facie evidence of
facts of general notoriety and interest.
SEC. 1191. If tihe writing be in the custody of the
adverse party, he must first have reasonable notice to prooe
duct it. If he then fitil to (10 So, the contents of tile writing
may be proved as in case of its loss. But the notice to
l)roduce it is not necssary where the writing is itself a
notice, or where it has been wrongfilly obtained or withheld
by the adverse party.
SEC. 1192. Though a writing called for by one
!,r is prouced by the other, and is thereupon ' pcd
"I e~l~ Ze it.~sC~E) the party calling for it, lie is not obliged to piroduceit
as evidence in the case.
SEC. 1193. Any writing may be proved either:
1. By any one who saw the writing executed; or,
2. By evidence of the genuineness of the handwriting
of the maker; or,
3. By a subscribing witness.
SEC. 1194. If the subscribing witness denies or does Other not ,ecolleet the execution of the writing, its execution may may still be proved by other evidence.
SEC. 1195. When, however, evidence is given that the party against whom the writing is offered has at any of time admitted its execution, no other evidence of the cxecu- tion need be given, when the instrument is one produced
from the custody of the adverse party, and has been acted
upon by him as geniine.
SEC. 1196. The entries and other writings of a decedent, made at or near the titne of the transaction and in a position to know the fiets stated therein, may be read as pria fadie evidence of the facts stated therein, in the
following eases:
1. When the entry was made against the interest of
the person making it;
2. When it was made in a professional capacity, and
in the ordinary course of professional conduct;
3. When it was inde in the performance of a duty
specially enjoined by law.
SEC. 1197. Every private writing, except last wills and testaments, may be acknowledged or proved and certi- tied in the manner provided for the acknowledgment or proof of conveyances of real property, and the certificate
of such acknowledgment ou' proof is prima facie evidence
of the execution of' the writing, in the slme manner as if
it were a conveyance of real property.
Sec. 1198. Every instrumnent conveying or affecting real property, acknowledged, or proved and certified, as provided by law, may, together with the certificate ofble acknowledgment or proof, be read in evidence, in an action or proceeding, without further proof; and a ertified copy of the
record of such conveyance or instrument thus acknowledged
or proved, may also be read in evidence, with the like
effect as the original, on proof by affidavit or otherwise,
that the original is not in the possession or under the control
of the party producing the certified copy.
SEC. 1199. There can be no evidence of the coil- tents of a writing, other than tile writing itself, exept in the following cases: 1. When the original has been lost or destroyed; in
which case proof of the loss or destruction must first be
made;
2. When the iriginal is ini the poSsession of' tile
party against whom the evidence is offered, and he fails to
produce it after reasonable notice;
3. When the original is a record or other document
in the custody of a public officer;
4. When the original has been recorded, and a ecertifled
c0py of the record is made evidence by this Code or
other statute;
5. When the original consists of numerous accounts
or other doeunments, which cunnot be exuinedl in court
without great loss of' time, and the evidence sought from
them is olv the general result of the whole. In the eases
mentioned In Subdivisions 3 and 4, a copy of the original,
or of the record, must be produled; in those mentionld in Subdivisions 1 nId , either a copy or oral evidence of' the
contents.
SEC. 1204. 1'erjury and trc ason must be proved by
testmony of' mnore than one witness. Treason 1y the tes-
timony of two witnesses to tile same overt act; and1 xIeliry
by the testimony of' two witnesses, or one witmls d( co'-
roborating circumstances.
SEC. 1205. A last will and testament, except a nunwriting.
ctipative will, is invalid, unless it be in writing and executed
with such formalitiGs as are requirel by law. When
therelbr suli a will is to be shown, the instrument itself'
must be prosluced, or seconda,.y evidence of* its eontents be
given.
SEC. 1206. No estaite or interest in real prop'erty,
other than for leases, ffio r ternu not exceeding one year,
Il)r any trust or power 0 *,-r or concerning it, or ill any
manner relating thereto, can be created, granted, assigietl,
surrendered, or declared, otherwise than by operation of'
law, or a onmlveyllce or other instrlument in writing, subscribed
bY tile party reatiu g, granting, assigning, surrendering
tle same, or by his lawfll agent thereiunto authorized
by writing.
SEC. 1207. Tile preceding section must not be con- stru-d to affect the power bf a testitor in the disposition of. his real property by a ]lst will and testament, nor to
preveit any trust from arising or being extinguished by
iliieation or operation of law, nor to abridge the power
of any court to compel the s)cific performance of rn
agreement, in ease of part performnnce thereof.
SEC. 1208. In the following ass the agreement is invalid, unless the same or some note or memorandum thiereof be in writing and subscribed by tile party charged,
or by his agent. Evidence, therefore, of the agreement
(annot 1)o receved without the writing or secondary evidence
of its contents:
1. An agreement that l)V its terms is not to be performed
within it year from the'making thereof;
2. A speeial promise "o answer for the debt, defiult,
or misca'riage of another, except in the ca.ses provided for
in the next section;
3. An agreelment 1nade 11)l consideration of nmirriage,
other thali a iiiiutual lpronise to marry;
4. An agreement for tihe sale of goods, chattels, or
things in action, at a price not less than two hundred dollars,
unless the buyer aecelt anod receive pllt Of such goods
and chattels, or the evidences, or some of them, of such
things in action, or pay at the time some j);Irt of tile pil*-
chase money ; but when a sale is mnale by auction, an entry
by tile auctioneer il his sale book,at the time of the sale, of
tile kind of propertv sold, the terms of' saec, the price and
the aunes of the purchaser, and p)erson on whose accomnt
the sale is made, is a1 suflicient mnemloranl(lllI;
5. An agreement fbr the leasing fbr a longer period
than one year, or for the sale of' real pro)erty or of' an
interest therein; and such agreement, if' made by an agent
of tile party sought to be charged, is invalid, unless the
authority of' the agent be in writing, subscribed by tile
party sought to be charged.
SEC. 1209. A promise to answer ftlr tile obligatiomn of aother, il any of, the following cases, is deemed a1,i of'~giton~ anno ther original obligation of the promisor,I 'a eednemeodt be iw,, writing: I . Where the promise is made by oiie who has received
property ',f* iiiother up,011 m iudertakinig to apply
it ) ursuant to such promise; or Iy one who has received a
(1isclharge fro m obligatin ill whle or ill part ill Consideration
of such p)romise;
2. W ere the creditor parts with value, or enters
into an obligation, in Consi(leration of the obligation ill
r(spect to which the promiise is made, in terms or under
circumstances such as to rcnder the party making the
Iruo ise the )rinci)al delbtor, and the person in whose
)ehalt, it is made, his surety;
3. Where the prom ise, being for an antecedent ol)ligatioll
of' allother, is made upIn the consideration that the
)aity receiving it cancels the antecedent obligation, accelting
the new promi se as a substitute therebr, or upon the
consideration that the party receiving it releitses the propeity
of' aother i'o1 it levy, oIt his person from iml)risonment
mder il exceution on 't judlgment obtained From the
antecedent obligation; or uipoli a cotsidelation beneficial
to the ptromisor, whether moving friom either party to the
antecedent obligationl, or fi'otii athr persool;
4. Wlhere a fietor undertakes, for' a commission, to
sell ierAiandise 'and guarante the sale;
5. When the hol lr of ain instrument fln' the payment
of' money, upon Which a third person is or may become
liable to hini, tratsters it in payment of a Wrcedelit
debt of his owi, or for ta new consideration, andI iin 'oiin-
ctioni with such transfer enters into a promise respecting
such instrurment.
SEC. 1210. No evidence is admissible to charge a
pe'SOIl upon a Ie rescntation as to the credit of' a third
pr',Oll, 11111e Ss 1 ri( 'h repr'ese tlatlin, o1' som mi rlalllOr'I1r m(ll1
thertwt, ibe in writillg, and either subscribed by, or in the
handwriting of' the party to be charged.
SEC. 1215. Tile party pi'oducing a writing as gentiwho
ile which has been altered, or alppears to have been altered,
after its execution, in ut part material to the question iin
dispute, muInst account foi' tie all)earance or alteration. He
may show that the alteration Was ml(le )y another, without
his concurrcnce, or wals made With the consent (f the parties
affbcted by it, or otherwise pl'operly or innocently
made, or that the alteration did not change the meaning or
langnage of tile instrunent. If' he do that, lie may give
the writing iii evidence, but not otherwise.
SEC. 1216. rite pr'ocess by which the attendance of -I witness is required is I sul)p(eia. It is a writ or order directed 1oi person and requiring his atteldance at a particul'u'
ti mc and place to testify as a witiesS. It may also
require him to bring with hi 11 any books, (hocllients, or"
other things under iis control whiAh hie is bound by law to
produ(e ill evidence.
SEC. 1217. Tie stibuviia is issued as fiollows: 1. To require atten(lance before t colirt, ofr at. lie trial of an issue therein, it is issued in the name of' the
court, bebfre which tI( attendance is required, of' il which
the isste is pending;
2. To require attendance out of the eourt, before a
judlge, jiustice or' Other otficer aultoriz(d t adimhliiister oath
or take testimony ill any matter under the laws of this Tferriory, it is issued by the judge, .justice, or aly other
olficer before whmoll the atteild:;llce is required;
3. To require attendance before a commissioner Ill)-
pointed to take testinmy Ity a colrt of' a fbreig con itr
Or of the ljmnitef! States, or of any other State or Territorn
in teie United States, or of any other (distric.t or ((0 llytN
within this Territory, or iefore any olficer or officers cip)
wered by th-w laws of the UI)ited States to take testimony,
it may be issued by any .judge, o" justice of tilte, pl-lCe ill
places within their respctive jurislietin, with like piower
to enforce attedanIace; and, u)o1n certificate of conltumacy
to said cmrt, t) l)1imWh conteml)t of their lprocess, as such
,judge or julstice could exercise if tile Sulbpilla direlctedi the
attelndane of the witness before their courts in a matter
pending therein.
SEC. 1218. The service of a siublpina is illade by l, showing the original and delivering a copy, or a ticket eon- tai ning its substance to tile witiie.s persolally, or i)y leavill,
a. coly with some sutable person at tile plac.e of' his abode,
giving or otlbring to him at the same time, if(leaden(ld ly
him, tihle fees to whichl he is entitled for tavel to and frOl
the ldacee designated, anod one (laV'. attendnlce there. Tile
service 11111st be Iiiade sO as to allOW the witlieSs It reasollable
tie f)r prellaration and travel to the place of attendmine.
Such service may be made by lp e "son.
SEC. 1211. If a witness is concealed ili a building, or
vessel, so as to plitcnt the service of a sunbpilena upon him, ,lily court or judge, or any officer issuing the sulbp l-ia
1111Y, upon 1)roof by affidavit of the concealment, and of
47
the materiality of' the witness, Iinvke an order tihlt, tlbv
Stite.i ii'slil, i' tile ictril of, the (1)011 tv, serve
the sal i la ; and the officl' ilr .st ser'e it :le' l'illn.., and
fbr that pu'pose IayIb treak into tit b1i1ild inC Ig vi esel
where the witess is l'ioweald.
SEC. 1220. A witne ,,s is not iil ild to attend :1, a
witiwss Iefire at1iY.( lrt, jiligte , justi e, or (vt.l her ofliver
ouit of the dIistric't if' the c.'e il which he is :isked to testit\
°- is pending ill the dis trict c.olirt, or if' pendling ill any
odle.r voli't out .11t'h e .. t ill which It(,- resides,, (1111v.s the
distance le less thani thirtv tile. frilt hi:s plhceo' residlt(.'
C to the plzi'e ot trial.
'. 1221. A personi present in 'ourt, fit, before :I
w it'iii ' p ai I ifbiI ))t,.jmVIl ie i'nUi'i ; iiil ci t' t ie ~.of'~isi \ "- ii it)i i Iih L sa1m I e1
, :51111er as it' he wtre ill attendace upon a Silqyvia isstfed
IbY Stich] courlt (oi, ot]iter.
SEC. 1222. 1 )isobciiien.e to I subol-tia, or a rei'usal
to lie Sworn, o t to alltwi r . m s It witness, or to ,nsl (..ribe an1i ;.1|ldavit (Ir dvlwoziti-n Nl\i en r'vlitired , ilay be lmilnild :1.-
a (.olt(tllt (d' the court or officer isu lro the sublovina ol"
te'trtt the witt,'...S to 1K- swrN1 ; :it(d if' the witie.- I a
iarty, his comlai~nt or aIlls\\'er 111v:1i .k . tl'iv'k.tll ouit.
1I.,,. 1'2"2:' . A witness. di.sobey~ing I subluvina also,
there-. .I
for'teits to the party aggriv'ed the su1l i' iote hitm,t'id
dolla', tlnd aill daintlag, whliillhe I.ay Stttait by tlhe ihfilltre
of the ittles., to attelnl, which fole'te.iture :inl danmges
may be+ recov\ered ;11 1 c'ivil ation.
SEC. 1221. Ii vaise( of* a iitt'e oI' a \itniess to atissue
teld, the Cot't lOVO ll'('P issuing the S1111tn1, 111)(111 ro1o '
of, tie t' er ice thereol, atil .I" the I'tilin' of tlie wit e1(.5,
l1t" issuae al lwt'ttlt to the Il itited State liti h:il, or to
the shurifi M,' the cont',' tio it'it the witles a bbrnitdig
hii befi'e thu coulirt or ofihce~r where his aittenantl'' was
reqni red.
SEC. 1225. Every 'arrant of',minitiment, isun'd by
at court o1 officer i'ltltrlnt to thIis' (Iiaiter, luist sl,'if"
thereiti, I rtieltrly, thl ('01tse of the l'imtlitiltt, and it'
it be for r'efisiti+ to answer t luestion, st.lh qtstiiin t.t
he stated in the warrant. And everv warrant to a'rett or
eomniit a witnelss, pir-t'siitt to this ( lmlptet', titlist be directed
to the United States marshal, or to the sheill' ol' the
county where the witness mtay i, and nitit he ex'ented l*\
the Offi.er iti the satue ilalterl.a's 5 provv i.' tt(xl 1y the district
eom't.
SEC. 1226. I..' .the w.itvn e•s-•.i fh e a prisoner, conlineI iin •1 ijlaii i nl to iro np riill otinl eN ptriIsi otnhl thuilsp onT erdr(iT Oto~irt, iman , oorr dFeorr fholris tIek mpexo-i rarv1 r'ie".'d anld lroiIu-tioll hefTrr, :1co li' or oiv~er for
th(: piirp ,v of' beinig orally examilld, aly he ilade Is
1h)IIow5:
proc ee1:.di l. 1i stlh ple. ndingr,i lgit l itivi l tle action or spial m it he, a justic's' Court;
distri2ct. coulry't a justice of' the siiii.o in, court, .ild(e of' the fir prolbate .il- (X tlhe co.mitv where the
m'ti ll or roi,.ie.dig is pilild i, it pending l)('fi'e a .ilstire's
court or helon, a .iml]e or other ]wi'i'l out of* court.
SEC. 1227. Such order (:n only he male il the motion of l pla'v, up1l1 aflid'lvit showing thle niatire of' the
actiotn o," pro'ee(ling, the testiiioiiy expe'ted fro the wit-
,..an5l,d itl materialitv.
SEC. 1228. It'th e witness he imprisoned in Ithe dis- trr zt io',Viitlvr r, the actlion 0o' rlli'Vmdiig is pIedinig,
his ld'llvti 1II11i Y lie requ1ired. Il all other ('lOses his
texmiiiat oll, wlvii allo wed, i1i1st Ie takei upoli depositiou.
SEC. 1229. A\ allilivil llMV le lC(l to Veril" It pejlp)I-' ;I pip~er ill :1 siiei'iiil jiio~qiecdii, to prove tile service oil :1 sililalll, notie, or otl(r1 paper itt all lctil
011 sJievial iroceeding, to Ihtaill :i piovisionil i'ieiiydy, the
.e1x ammointiaotnii onan oodf , iall witness PorI stay fip' roeeliuigs, or llpoln ally. other ca:se expn'essl?, iern'mittedl b\?
Sulhle oitier 0'ro\';sioll of* this ('ode.
S.:,'. 12:30. l'Ei,d elile of the ilhlication i faL di ulmliIIit I' i otice l'fillired )" law o1" 1 ol'l(l e'i i II ( lil't or jludge to he published i Ii.llr, llnw's ali e given lIv the thlti,-
vit ift'h e linter o ' tile ,lie'pspr,( o r his blhrelliill, or
principal clel'k, aiiexed to :i copY of tie doullient or
liiti(se'cei it'ving tile hiues wheui, and the paper illv liMi
tile lihliitation wNIs 11111e.
Si:c. 12 '1. If' ieli affidavit be Iil:lil l all a.tioWtlhe r slpecial Jlro(eedili iell~leil p in t enlirt, it. 111:1v lie tiled
with tih(ec llrt o' clerk tlicreot. It' ot, so lIn ade it may be
ilId with tie reci. rder of the' ciilty where t ieewspapIier
isp rinted. Il eitiihaseer t he origina tfliaffda'it, or :tc opy
itnlghe"r oitl ',il cl ertified by the Judge of the court or officer l'- c.istody , is pri m . .l'. e' v\idelice of, d- filets
.,,tareSd .th:enaei1cn .l:. 1...i An If:llI\it to he uSei hefo'e tiy c.ourt, Sisd .h I'l28r Judge oi olli'er oi'th is 'erritoirv, may le taken hefo111re au • * "
jniloltigaer yl"r lerk of' lly cour , or any ju.tie of the peace or lblie ill thlile.r ritoI'.
Ie'itSi.i:. 1ft i :1 . An aiddai'it takeli ill :ilther StaIe o'
f the Uil lited States, to he Ited illth is IelIitly,
...II lav I) v lta ell I) ec' re l 1111i1s1 s io le r :1 )1 iniIIte)(y thle
Go(v'eirn oir rit his Territo'v to take afflihlavits anld "depo-
Siit1n s ills uih ohler State or' I'litonv or bhiore hiiN
notary" p~llnni ll lllelr S'tnte or TII,'if|IrV orl ])ef'orlllye~
Jildlg o,r,h'li 'k (ifa iourt rl i'e,,,d havilig a .(e'1.
iii c.:. I ,f1.l, ,A2 n it flakeilll la fo eii'eil eillitir\" l
y.,.t .o 1W ' ltl,-e ill this v' I'itoi'Ny, l'ir..I" Ii ta el h l ore it
ll lh .ad( ,m inister, colhill Vive- ll, o11r l.llllr l,
or' the Urnited States, .r bfiin'e aIIN jldge o a eourt of
rco'ord ha'illog a :sal, hi ljesbli gi i il''m.
SEC. 1285. When atia flilavit is iakeil befre a
e ' ' t ini allotlii' State o' ''er'itrv, Or ill: a
i.t f.r.ie .i gn cI)Iil't ry, the geiiliilIless oi tiev signlatu'e of tile
itory. .ji lg, th ee xi.,,iili'e (i'th e co 't, "ll( the fli'thta t Stich
jilldlg is a ilelliier l'eroelf, Iuiist be i'rtified by the clerk
of' tlie court, Itiader seal thlereor.
SEC. 36. The tistiiioi of iaw itiie.s oit of tlhe
f. .T ,'rriiritonher ytavhkie ll by deposition ill action, at ally
... iline .fier the ser'vie orfth e shillilioms, or the :ippealraliee
Of the deftllifdatlt ; and1 ill'1 sple'ial liieeeding,t ally tiimie
•attei a iu estion of holt hma ariseni thereil.
SEC. 37. t hIe tI tvh i i f 'ao \itiie. s it this Ter-
rilor ,v i,a,Iy he hklal by dpiositio ill.1 11a ction, at ally
uiie af'ter the se'vice of the summll1Onis 0o1r' the al)elarance (;'
tlhe deflellbiiit; aiid, ill hi special pIroioeditg, after :1 fluestion
Ir f'ot I arisei th erei in the I llownw ( ses:
Whell tile \vitlieS, is i parU'ty to the -iltoiro pnrio-'
C.O~dillp', or a lpersol forw \hose immelidiate bellefit tile ,'tfln
or lroeeeding is ioe.'tii ted or deteilided
2. When the witness r'esides oit of the district, whlle
he :'til i is pending ill tile district courl't , and oIt of' the
volillity ilzolt h er casles, hi Which h~is t~estillilly is to b~e
u-ed ;
3l. Vhi.i the witness is ab iotuot l eave the district or
coiinity \% here thi a(iiln is to le tried, Inl vill probably
continue alsent vhell the testilillimy is reqiiirei;
4. When the witiless, otherwise liable to attend the
trial, is lievo'erthiees, tio infii'tin to attend ;
5. \\aeln the testinlMN is require111 upo0n Lm otion,
Or iI lliy other Case wherl'e tile o'l eXamillnition of tile witness
is not required.
S(. Territor y I1ll2 38.b e t'Ia'hk end euppoosni ticoonl ilolf 'i sa s iowlli tnisesslsl' (1o utfr ooilfi tthhies TeIs,court, Ilide : ie 'II l of, tile 'Ilirt, upoll .il r'der of' the tion jidge I' couri, or probite Judge, oil tile appltiot Oiolf tilh'lr 1itil'tN, ijpll five days', pll'eviolls iotice to the oilher. Ilotice.
If issiled to any phi'e withill file Uiited States, it may be
dir'ected tol| lilyp ilsoll nl-i.etd Ilpollbliy the panrtie, oi- it'
tho.'d\o ilolw li-lev, to ailly judge orl justiee Of* the lacme, o1"
l('sIlll ' n1n i iedo r (onilii5l Iolled hby it,o fice'r isS uinlig it.
If'is ,liel to ii (,lil lrV 'lilt of' ti( U nited States, it illay
bied i re edl t oin t i l l e l',e n m bliss all i' con .stl, \'ie- con s ill ,
(1lV'Ol iiih;ir ii~lit,O f* tile tTrniilS.h(lt (,S i.-ql~lhI eolllltry, O1r
to .11iN' |el',l igl'l'I Ieill I i v the lat'iies.
SEC. 21. 'S uc' 11'1l' oper illel'lr'oit II' S, di'e't 111 '1'oss, as til lhree seli' e pairi'ties Illay piop'oseIo to be ;etiled if' tlhe [ll'ltit dinr'le aIs. to thei' forlll, ly tile jidge or ojj'jCP' grl ill tile ord lt M~'tih iiie r rf olht h e loililiiohli |ita, d (%al\;VIi vcfdi xl'llh i thie ol'dlliIM'n)i beta nnilexe~d to) the 'omiiionI; or, \heln
till' jltll'(ti s lll've to thaIt llode tie Clllillex itimall Iily he
w\ithoutl \riitln iterlromiiories.
SEC. 1210. T]hle cominssion muist aithorize the coll- Inis10ililers to iidlministlr all otii to tlhe wlitness, ilid to take bits de ilOsitinl ill Illswerl to tie iIlter''OltoCies' r wilel t i exainion is ttob e Wvitliloiiln;t ergiitl)lii'ies, ill 'elllt to
tile qluestion ill dilile, and to c'ti f tile depoition to tile
coi'ti h1 s.eliied,.1n \te l'le l thll lhtd Il 'derao o ilIier
111tl'1i' ,(onl iIll e or iiy1 1e1 edi IuIp i ll aid ''iiii toiiil b
!nil] or Other' usul] dianel o.f' Si-) , 1'-11. A tria' or otie li i'rtt lot h,e tst Ilot lbe o 1tpil:b' 4d TlIO e If ' atoil lli o'n l ot rillitilne ile I lil e,\hllt ,ieistilo') to Letti le ilrt0, 1' i thnt (Cteeeht liy of' tlie w\itness is lIIiSS1:111il'y Wid thait propier diligene has bieej lised to ojllh it .
SEC. 1212. Tle deposit'in Inelil iied i llh i CI1 l may be ts(,] by either panrty oil file oti'e oi tiler proceed- :i, i ingsatu ny othier parUty giv'ing or reveiv'ing theu notice,
sulljet to ;iljuls t excepltions.
SEC. 13. E ither p arti'mya yi h alvet he d eo i tion taketn If' itw itiess ill tis Territor'lf 'il~l1i), ae ither o" the Ces nmenthioned in Section 12237, lhetore Itju dge or officer uithi ..n11 I ized to amlinihister oaths oil seviiillg 1)lon the adverse Inrt', p reo us~in,i otie co f' thie thnle nlid pla |ec o f' ex a iniation ,
togetlir with Ii eopy of' Ill nlidnavit, siolWiig tihlit tile vise
i Witlil tiltt tiIl. Such notie inlllst lIe at lelst li'e
dli'O, alddig ilso OneC diy fot' every, twenty-five nmiles of'
thie distiliCe of' the llce of exalilitlion f''onu tile resilelc
of' the person to whom the notice is given, unless, for a
Cause shown, 1 judge, by order, prescribeia shorter time.
When the shorter time is prescribed, a copy of' the order
1111st be served with the notice.
SEC. 1244. lither pNrty may attend the examiation
at11(l put Such questions, direet and cross, as may be proper.
The del)o sitihII, when completed, luist be careCllly read to
the witiess and corrected I), him in any particulari', if desired
; it millst theni Ie s bsribeId ny tile witniess, certified
by the "idwe or oflicer taking the depositioni, incelosed in an
(40,1'ol-e or wrapper, sealel 01(d di'ected to the clerk of the
court ill whic'h tile action 3S pending, or to such perso .1s
tle parties, ill writing, 1l1i y gree upon, ant(e1it her delivered
by the judge or oflicer to the Clerk ov' stch person, or transmllitted't
hrough the mail or l)y some s,f ib' private opportihility
; anditth erellpoll suich deposition 1falU be lsed l)y
ly either p11rty upollt he trial 01' other lroc('d(ing against any
al'ty giving or' receiving tile notice, sul)ject to all legal exthle
ceptions; )ut if' the )arties attend at the examinatioit, no
ol)jectioll to the 1oi',1 of .111 interroato-ry shall be Iliade at
the trial, unl.ess the same wvas state(l at the time of the examination.
If' the deposition Ile taken under Subdivisions
2, .3 and 4 of Section 1237, Proof intist le ma(le at tile
trial that tie vitness ('ontiles .a)sent or infirm, or is (lead.
The deposition thus taken may be also reid in case of' fie
death of' tile witiless.
SEC. 1245. NotwithstandingP! the taking of' a delpoexcluded.
sition, it may be ex(lIded froil the case upon proof that
slhflicielit notice was not givell to the party .lgaiiilt wholli
it is olried to enlable him to ,Ittenid the taking thereof, o1
that tile taking was not in all respects fitii'.
Si;,(,. 12-1(. When a deposition has been once taken,
it IllaY Ile read by eCiiitCh'.e'ltr pity ii lla1 l1 y sttga ge offtl' tile saatme
a o0rt iloronc eeding, or iin ai ' othe' action between the
samie parties, upn) the same subject, and is then deenied
the evidence of' the )arty rilding it.
SEC. 1217. Aly 1 arty to an action or special prothis
:ing ill a ('oulrt or befirc a judge of a State or other .lerrtor,r N pay oiain the testiluoll of' a witness residing
ill this T1erritorv to b~e used in sucll action or proceeding,
ill the cases llelltiolne illti le next two scetionis.
ocure. 

SEC. 1218. If' a commission to takl(s uch t stiniony
has been issued fi'om the court or a judge befoire whom
suchl actioll oI plroee(lilg is pelldilng, 01 1roduleing tile
(o.mmissioln to a district or probate judge, with ai afhidavit
satisfactory to him of the materiality of the testilliony,
Ile may issue a.S ull)pen' to the witness, reuliring himito
aippear and testit, beflb'e tihe comlmissioner m1111iend the
Commission, at 'a specified tile and l0ce.
SEC. 1249. If' a commission, has not been isslied, and it appearls to a district or probate judge, or justiee of' tile peaCC, b)' aflidavit satisfhCtorv to him:
1. That the testimony of the witness is material to
either party ;
2. That iLcO MiiS.SiOil to take tile test101oily of siuch
witness has not been issued;
3. That, according to thi luwv of the Stale or Terriritory
where the action or sjccial proceeding is pending,
tile deposition of* a witiess to enil nder su(1 cih1uIilstlleCs,
and. befbre suich judge or justice, will be received ill tile
letioll o- proceeding;
lie bust issue his subpoena, requiring the witness to
appear and testiy befbre hini at a specified tinme and place.
SEc. 1250. Ulpon tihe ai ll'ilCe of' tile witless, tile judge or justi('e must (nse his testimony to le taken imi writing, and miluist certify, a1d tri'lsmliit the saie to the
Court or .judge 1bef e whoil tiie action or proceeding is
pending, ill stich manner s the law of that State or Territory
requires.
SEC. 1251. If' either party rellir~s it, the judge may exclude fron the court roonl nI)l witness of' the ad- verse lpa.rt), not at thie ti i under examination, so lht ie may not hear the t;simlojiy of* other witnesses.
SEC. 1252. A witness, served with a sullhplna, must attend at tile time appoilnted, with aly Iliers 1ln1der his control required by the sullpomia, and answer all pertinent
and legal questions; .and lIlless sooner diso'harged, nilist
remain u11Iil tie testillolly is closed.
SEC. 1253. A witness ust answrIl questions IVg 1l and pertinent to the matter ill issue, though his answer illiy establish a clainIl against. li lIlself; )llt ie need llOt give all anlswer1 which will have a tendency to subject him to punishment
fbi' felionv; nor need he give ill answer which will
have it dirrct tenilone to degrade his chatracter, nilCsS it
he to the very fiet in issue, or to a faiet f'omi which the
fileiltl issue wolild ble presumed. Kit a witness must
answer as to tile Itct of' his llrevious conviction Ior felony.
SEC. 1254. Every person who has bee), ii1 good filith, served with a siblu)Wna to attend as a witiness before t court, judge, (ommissioner, referee, or other person, ii it ouse where the disobedience of" the witness l10)y h)e plunishedd as a eoteil)t, is exoneriated firoi0 arrest illi t( ivil action
while golnIg tho e li1hC e of'attendove, neesarily rel i1-
ing there, and retilnilnlg therefrom.
SEC. 1255. The arrest of' a witness contr.ary to the,
ii ('tO i V(11
pecedile sectio is void, and whell willli",1v tINule, is a'
.ontemplt of the voli't, and the person mak'ing it i.,, rv-
Spl sihle to the witniess a'rested for double tile amiiounit of
the dlanages Whijl ity hb assessl agaIeinst him, :11d is also
liahl io an tlion .0, the stilt of the party Servsing lhe witness
with the sulpwom, fior the damages sustained lIy lion
in ('.il.'ew(iellie , f 1 the arrest.
SEC. 1256. An oglieer is not liahle to the lpa'ty for
m'akig, thle arrest ill igiloiaiiee of, tile falets vreatiiig the
exonerIation, hut is liahle for* any sibS,'quent, detention of'
tile jiortv, it' sIIch lp'tylyhilli the exemplion, .lld iiLke an
.aftidavit stit lig:
1. That ie Ims Iwen serveId with a s qn Iii na to attend
-s a witnhess beftire a (m'llt, oflivet' oi' other person, specit'viIi
.g ctched is.''i iiiell, wtlehu ichp lt hee solif'h lautvteilnad awnacse issaunldv l; th'e1 ),a,ction oi-
2. That 1e has i ot thus beeni serveld by his own procirileilt,
with the intention of aviding al a rrest
3. That he is at tile tilie goii., to the ilac t'f attendan'e,
oi returning theref-oiun, or l'eiiil linigi there in
ol.Itiellve to, the sulblt m.
Itlle aifidavit iiav ie takeli lw the ofllcers, ,an1d exlliorates
iiiii Crom liahihit fCoi' dischui'gilg the witness When
arrlest ed.
SEC. 1257. The court ir ofliier issuiig th subllina,
1111 the (olirt i' of'fiei befre hlli the attendacllv is re-
quired, I,:ay discharge fil(! witnless t'-,.n an arrest Ilade in
v'iolation ofSuctiln 125-1. It' the oti' have adroilliledl
before the arrest, or before applicaltion tor he dis.h'arge,
aI jud,,e of' the court or a i'obat l.le 11N gqril .t tlhe
SEC. 1258. An oflci in writimg to pay a pai'ticular ivI- n Cit meOIty, or1 to dd ivetr a written insltmnent or spevi lie
personal prl'olcly, is, it' not, .aepted, equivalent to the
actul: oii Ip'rIo dutcetnild er of' the 1ione , instrumenl , or
1)roiel'tN .
SEC. 1251. Whoever 1pays money, or dcliveirs an
instmii2en( it ' pro lyrh, is entitled to a receipt thei'ofr froi
tlle person twoh ltm ihe payment or delivery is made, and
may del11d a1p1r oper signature to such receipt, as 1 ConIditili
of' the 1paymcnt o1 delivery.

SEC. 1264, rhe testimony of a witness may ie taken
an(d 'Crttlcated as pirovi(hltl iu this Chapter. SiEc. 1265. 'Ile appl)licant must lrodue to a dis- trict judge, or to a lNirlte judge, :ap etition verifiCd lv the oath of' tic a)lieant stating: • 1. That the allppli('ant expects to ie a party to I
action ill a court ill this Territory, and iii such ;ase the
names of the persons whom lie expects will le adverse
parties; or,
2. That the proof of some fl(.t is ne(,essairy to perfeet
the title to pro[)erty ill which l(e is interestl, or to
estahlish 1arriage, d escent, heirshiip, oi- aly other matter
whieh it may iereafter becone malterial to establisih, though
io suit. may at the time be anticipateid, or if' anticipated l(
may not kniw the parties to suitch suit; alid,
3 The name of the witness to be examined, his place
of' residtlence, ald I general outliine of the fiets expected to
Ie l)roved. The ' judge to wmom such petition is presented,
must make ii oirler allowing the examination, and
diesignating the officer before whoi tie same must ibe taken,
and prescribing the notice to be given, which notice, if' the
parties expeetant nre known an1d reside ill this Territory,
must he formally served, an d if' ln known, smch notice llllist
lIe serv(e ooil the recorder of the county where the prolperty
to be alletil 1)y the evidence is situlted, or tile judge iloaking
the order resides, as may le directed iy hiim, and by
puibli(ation thereof in some newspaper, to bIe designated by
the jiudge, for the same period required for the pullic" tioi of sim ons. The judge lutist also design te ill his order
tie recorder of' the county to whom the deposition must lie
returneil when takei.
SEC. 1266. The person appointed by the .judge to take the depositions is authorized, if' a iesi(Ielt of' this jidg, Territory, on rve(iviig a copy of' the order of' the judge, and of the notice prescribed in the lat section, with proof
of its iersoiial service or ptullication; or, if' a resilent
without the Territory, on receiving the commission mentionedi
in the next section, vith )roof of like service or
publication of the notice; to take the deposition of the
48
witnes.s lilalil ill tIle ore' of the jiltige, or ill the eollmission,
or if' mrer tlit lle \vitiiess is th is liaiied, of*
.such of' thum a4 a-iwar hbeo're him, at tile time 4lesi-gliated, anod tile taking (W the .'.iame 111,Y be continued fl'r) tillw
to time.
SEC. 127. l'h examination must i by uetot4
uilld alwel', and if tie testiiioiv is to be takei il auotlher
State or Te'ritorv , it tmiust )e taken liouI 11 eolltii.issiol to
be iiv(I b thle julre"d allowilg tlte .xamiuatiutntid,e r tie Seal o , ihe court of vlil lie is jhlL e, an u iIte'i'Ii-
ltoris to be .Settlhd ill the samlit 1aihiili ras ill asv5s of
d e p o it i o n s ta ke n un d e r c om. mi s si, on i ll p e nd i n g, ac .it ol ,
slle-. the parties eXlec't;t, if' kioni, otlhervise :PIgt.
If' Siii, lI:'tiVS Ll-V liulikio NVII, hutiee off tile SMttle lillt (f tile interrolnitoriv., .4. il be, lmhilislC( ills0111e V~ law
foi' suh tile :s tile .i le' ay Ie-illte. The deposiitiui
whenl v'lihl('ttd , must be t"arefullv iead l, and subs'riled
bv the witns's, tll certit' i by thie ofhi(eI' 44'
Ipersou tdkiiig tle same, and shall ten lbe sealed op and
deliver'ed or tran.simitted to the I'et''der of, the countv desigu,
1:ited ill tle orde(r, ' ' the igI' alhig tie exination,
who Shall file the saile whoIn receiv'ed. Tl' judge
ilh,'iui~ tile examhintion .shall file with the recor'der tile
Order Co. examination, tie putititil o )ihiel the lShli(' wa grvanted, w\itlh prolf of .servi'e of' the order anod noti'e.
Su:c. 126,8. The petitiomiui d uinre l l(apers filed
by t*lle juillde, is lu 'vided ill the last Section, or :1 certifie
' I *• therc'lf' are prol. t Jowiv evhidt'e of' the fhets stated
ther'eii to .low . plia i e with the pr'visioni of' this Chapter.
SEC. 121. 11' a triaIi be had between the parties
y liaici ill the petition as parties 0o1x' rethtllelitr, sem'cesrcrs
ill interest, or between ally iartics wl'hervii it 1ay Ibe
material ti establish thlt' Ihets \lichl stth depositiois i'ive,
or tend to prove, upon lroot ' of' the death, or insanity of'
the w itne.se , or that tl ev can n t b e fotb id , o i- a e u a bled,
by rea.vml of' age or other iulirmitv, to give their testilloliv
tt depl'sitions oi' etopies tdivi'eit' iilay be used by
tithir Jias't' .uibjet to ill legal ohbetiliils; but if' the pa'-
ties attend :it the examination, lb14li)jection to tle form (W1
an interroilator ('11 be Iilllde it tllt' trial, liiess tile samlle
w'as stated lit tie examin.atin.
SEC. 1270. The de sitiou si takeu 'li] read ill evi-
l'ilee ils the sainte efl'e't a: the r.1rl testiuiioiiv of' the witnt,%
h 1an111 1odtv , :11d every Ob etioll to the wittess, or tf
tile relevalle('N" o1" anly ques tio.n 1,u1toi him, o" ofl' ally answ('
given htv him, may Ib)ei ade ill the same lanIlnellir as if
he vere examinled oI'1lly- at tile trial.

SEC. 1277. An oatl, 'o alrmatibo in c or proec.edilnf, remly be wlinliSt(Ire0 .M,1 11hmWS, thlP 1)(rS01 Who Swears, or aflierlts, v5rexiIa ss, is ssnt whi l .addhessol il
thi tlhe oh t f ;o il tl':
" You do slvnlv swi ea (o r alh' tdaa.\, the cas,
bie) thlat, the e\'idet, 'e yoll shall give ill this issue (or Iltattel')
pendingbehvevil - and--sba bletl e irlth, the
whole tril.h, and nothing b leu ti'i soSri hellp yol iGod."
SEC. 1277. Weeverhenevet court befII)re wi'h, a per-may t'ttis oll' retod itnse sa. ,s is satisi ed thao t hias ' pec ligioia tr ofi , stwloeadrien g,o e l-(q] with k' ill addition ft o t'' Ifwi 11s11:1 fiwil of, admillistrntioll, which ilhlis opilliol, is Il,,rv
soillin or obligatory, the court may, ill its discretion al, pt
that mlode.
SEC. 1278. \\henl a per.son is swormn who believes ill q1t1, otheri thall the CThristian religion, hIntl hea Sworn'
•i g,c r to the( peq-,uli.11,' erl s oI' hliS religio. it'
there be a," sli.h.
Sec. 270. A,\nV person \vdio desires it may', it his option, instead otf tak'ing all .nth ilake his solhiln'a'hmt lioll tl' deehliatio, hy assenting, whenl add'essed ill the t6.e ,1ii i You (f sohemih" affirm (r declare) that," ctc., :ns ill Svetion 12761.

SEC. 1284. All (jIIestions of fict, where til trial is
by jul'y, other than those mentioned in the ]text section
are to be decided by the jury, and all evidence thereon is to
be addressed to theni except when otherwise provided by
this Code.
SEC. 1285. All questions of law, including the adestion
nissibility of testimony, the facts peliiinary to such adadmissibility
mision, and the construction of statutes and other writings
and other rules of evidence, are to be decided by the court,
and all discussions of law addressed to it. Whenever the
knowledge of the court is by law made evidence of a fict,
the court is to declare such knowledge to the jury, who are
bound to accept it.
SEC. 1286. The provisions contained in this )art of
the Code respecting the evidence on a trial before a jury,
aire equally a)plicable on the trial of' a question of fact be-
fbre a court, referee, or other officer.
SEC. 1287. Whenever moneys are paid into or deinto
1i) posited in court, the sanm shall be dlelivered to the clerk in
person, or to such of' his deputies as shall be specially
authorized by his appointment in writing to receive the
same.
SEC. 1288. All acts and parts of' acts in controvenrepealed.
tion with this Code are hereby repealed, saving and exclause.
caevpitnign g all rights, actions, and rights of action, which shall
have accrued, and exist when this Code takes effect, and all
actions then commenced shall be prosecuted to a deternination
in conformity to the rules herein prescribed, so flr as
applica)le.
Approved March 13, 1884.
