t 1. No person shall make an entry on, or bring an action to recover
any land lying east of the Alleghany mountains, but within fifteen 
years, or any land lying west of the Alleghany mountains, but within
ten years next after the time at which the right to make such entry or
bring such action shall have first accrued to himself or to some person
through whom he claims. • 
2. Nothing In this act shall affect any action now pending, or prevent
the making of any entry or bringing of any action witl].in two years
next after the passage hereof; but every such action now pending, and
every such entry or action that may hereafter be made or brought
within the last mentioned time, shall be governed by the law existing
immediately before the passage hereof. 
Right not aaved by claim.
3. No continual or other claim upon or near any land shall preserve 
any right of making an entry or of bringing an action. 
Further time allowed infants, <tc.
4. If, at the time at which the right of any person to make entry on 
or bring an action to recover any land shall have first accrued, such
person was an infant, married woman, or insane, then such person, or 
the person claiming through him, may, notwithstanding the said period
mentioned in the first section t shall have expired, make an entry on 
or bring an action to recover such land, within ten years next after the
time at which the person to whom such right shall have first accrued
as sferesaid, shall have ceased to be under such disability as existed
when the same so accrued or shall have died, which ever shall first
have happened. 
5. The preceding section is subject to these provisoes: that no such
entry or action shall be made or brought by ll.DY person who, at the 
time at which his right to make or- bring the same shall have first ac­ 
crued, shall be under any such disability, or by any person claiming
through him, but within thirty years next after the time at which su~h 
right shall have first accrued, although the person under disability at
such time may have remained under the same during the whole of such
thirty years, or although the term of ten years from the period at which
he shall have ceased to be under any such disability, or have died, shall
·not have expired; and when any person shall be under any such disa­
bility at the time at which his right to make an entry or bring an action
shall have first accrued, and shall depart this life without having ceased
to be under any such disability, no time to make an entry or to bring
an action, beyond the time prescribed in the first section* next after
the right of such person shall have first accrued, or the ten years next
after the period of his death, shall be allowed by the reason of the disa­
bility of any other person. 
Time for preservation ef certain civil rights and remedies extended. t 
6. The period between the seventeenth day of April, eighteen hun­
dred and sixty-one, and the passage of this actt shall be excluded from 
the computation of the time within which, by the terms or operation
of any statute or rule of law, it may be necessary to commence any
action or other proceeding, or to do any other act to preserve or to
prevent 'the loss of any civil right or remedy, or to avoid any fine,
penalty or forfeiture; nor shall the further period from the expiration
of that above prescribed, to six months after a supreme court of ap·
peals shall be organized under the present government, be included in
the computation of the time within which .any party or parties may be 
required by statute or rule of law, to obtain a writ of error, superse­
dens, or other process from the supreme court of appeals of Virginia:
provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to relieve any officer
of the state or of a county or corporation from the obligation to per­
form within the time prescribed, any act which it was his duty to per­
form at any time since the reorganization, under the present govern­
ment, of the county or corporation to which such officer belongs. 
7. All rights and remedies saved or intended to be saved, and all ex-
emptions from loss or liability of any sort secured or intended to be
secured by an act passed the fourteenth day of March, eighteen hun­
dred and sixty-two, by the body then sitting in Richmond and claim·
ing to be the general assembly of Virginia, entitled an act to extend
the time for the exercise of certain civil rights and remedies; or by an 
I 
act passed by the same body on the twenty-third day of February,
eighteen hundred and sixty-four, entitled an act to amend and re-en­
act an a.ct entitled an act to extend the time for the exercise of certain
rights and remedies, passed March the fourteenth, eighteen hundred
and sixty-two; or by an act passed by the same body on the eleventh
day of March, eighteen hundred and sixty-three; entitled an a.ct to 
provide against the forfeiture of compensation to fiduciaries in certain
cases, are hereby confirmed, and declared to be as valid and effectual
as if the lawful authority of the body by which said acts were passed 
had never been questioned. 
Limitation of personal actions generally.
8. Every action to recover money which is founded upon an award, 
or on any contract, other than a judgment or recognizance, shall be~
brought within the following number of years next after the right to 
bring the. same shall have first accrued, that is to say: if the case be
upon an indemnifying bond taken under any statute, or upon a bond 
f ad
. . d" . h "ff 
o an executor, ministrator, guar ian, curator, committee, s err or
sergeant, deputy shetiff or sergeant, clerk or deputy clerk, or any other
fidueiary or public officer, within ten years; if it be upon any other
contract by writing under seal, within twenty years; if it be upon ant=::~ 
award, or be upon a contra.ct by writing, signed by the party to be
charged thereby, or by his agent, but not under seal, within five years; 
and if it be upon any contract, within five* years, unless it be an action
for any articles charged in any store account, in which case the action
may be brought within two years, or an action by one partner against 
his co-partner for a settlement of the partnership accounts, or upon
accounts concerning the trade of merchandise between merchant and 
• • 
merchant, their factors or servants, where the action of account would
lie, in either of which cases the action may be brought until the expi-
ration of five years from a cessation of the dealings .in which they are
interested together, but not after. 
limitation on bonds of fiduciaries. 
9. The right of action upon the bond of an executor, administrator,
di to · f h "ff. t ti 
guar ian, cura r, or committee, or o a s err , or sergean ac mg as
such, shall be deemed to have first accrued as follows: upon a bond of 
a guardian or curator of a ward, from the time of the ward's attaining
the age of twenty-one years, or from the termination of the guardian's
or curator's office, whichever shall happen first; and upon the bond of
any personal representative of a decedent or committee of an insane
person, the right of action of a person obtaining execution against such 
representative or committee, or to whom payment or delivery of estate
in the hands of such representative or committee, shall be ordered by 
a court acting upon his account, shall be deemed to have first accrued
from the return day of such execution, or from the time of the right 
to require payment or delivery upon such order, whichever shall hap-
fi A d . . h fid . hi 1~ hi 
pen rst, n as to any suit against sue uciary imse 1, or is rep-
resentative, which could have been maintained if he had given no bond,
there shall be no other limitation than would exist if the preceding
section was not passed. 
Where there is a new promise in writing.
10. If any person against whom the right shall have so accrued on 
an award, or on any such contract, shall, by writing signed by him or
his agent, promise payment of money on such award or contract, the 
person to whom the right shall have so accrued, may maintain an action
for the money so promised, l_Vithin such number of years after the said 
promise, as it might originally have been maintained within, upon the
award or contract, and the plaintiff may either sue on such promise or
on the original cause of action, and in the latter case, in answer to a
plea under the eighth section, may, by way of replication, state such
promise, and that such action was brought within the said number of
yea.rs thereafter; but no promise, except by writing as aforesaid, shall
take any case out of the operation of the said eighth section or deprive
any party of the benefit thereof. An acknowledgment in writing as
aforesaid, from which a promise of payment may be implied, shall be
deemed to be such promise in the meaning of this section. 
Effect of promise of personal reprueniative or joint contractor.
11. No acknowledgment or promise by any personal representative 
of a decedent, or by one of two or more joint contractors, shall charge
the estate of such decedent, or charge any other of such contractors,
in any case in which but for such acknowledgment or promise, the de- 
cedent's estate or another contractor could have been protected under
the eighth section. 
Ej[ect on right of action of devi,e for payment of debts. 
12. No provision in the will of any testator devising his real estate,
or any part thereof, subject to the payment of his debts, or charging
the same therewith, shall prevent this chapter from operating against
such debts, unless it plainly appear to be the testator's intent that it
shall not so operate. 
Limitation qf actions, &:c., on recognizances.
13. Every action or scire facias upon a recognizance shall be com· 
menced, if the recognizance be not of bail in a civil suit, within ten
years next after the right to bring the same shall have first accrued; 
and if the recognizance be of such bail, within three years after the
right to sue out execution upon the judgment in such suit shall have
accrued, omitting in the computation of time such part of said three
years as the right to sue such execution shall have been suspended b7
injunction, supersedeas, or other legal process. 
14. Every personal action for which no limitation is otherwise pre-
ib d hall b b h . hi fi f h · h b · 
sen e 
S e roug t wit m ve years next a ter t e rig t to rmg
the same shall have accrued, if it be for a matter of such nature that 
1 
in case a party die it can be brought by or against his representative;
and if it be for a matter not of such nature, shall be brought within 
one year next after the right to bring the same shall have accrued.* 
Actions on judgments, &c., of another state, 
15. Every action upon a judgment or decree rendered in any other
state or country shall be barred, if by the laws of such state or country 
such action would there be barred, and the judgment or decree be in-
capable of being otherwise enforced there; and, whether so barred or
not, no action against a person who shall have resided in this state
during the ten years next preceding such action, shall be brought upon
any such judgment or decree, rendered more than ten years before the 
commencement of such action. 
Suiu to avoid voluntary deeds, &c., and to repeal grants. 
16. No gift, conveyance, assignment, transfer or charge, which is not
on consideration deemed valuable in law, shall be avoided, either in 
whole or in part, for that cause only, unless within five years after it is
made, suit be brought for that purpose, or the subject thereof, or some 
part of it, be distrained or levied upon by or at the suit of a. creditor,
as to whC¥111R1ch gift, conveyance, assignment, transfer or charge is de-
clared to be void by the second section of the one hundred and four·
teenth chapter. 
17. A bill in equity to repeal, in whole or in part, any grant of land
by the commonwealth, shall be brought within ten yea.rs next after the
date of such grant. 
&ving in caae of irifants, &c., and persons dead, when right accrues.
18. If any person to whom the right accrues to bring any such per- 
sonal action, or scire facias, or any such bill to repeal a grant, shall be
at the time the same accrues, an infant. married woman, or insane, the 
sam~ may be brought withi_n the like numb~r of years after his be-~
commg of full age, unmarried or sane, that 1s allowed to a. person 
h
. h . di to b . h a.f h . h 
avmg no sue impe iment ring t e same ter t e rig t accrues,
or after such acknowledgment as aforesaid, except that it shall in no 
case be brought after twenty years from the time when the right ac-
crued, 
19. If a person die before the time a.t which any right mentioned in
this chapter would have accrued to him, if he had continued alive, and
there be an interval of more than five years between the death of such 
person and the qualification of his personal representative, such per­
sonal representative shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be deemed 
to have qualified on the last day of the said five yea.rs. 
Saving to p'laimiff, where suing was prevented by defendant.
20. Where any such right as is mentioned in this chapter shall 
accrue against a person who had before resided in this state, if such
person shall, by departing without the same, or by absconding or con­ 
cealing himself, or by any other indirect ways or means, obstruct the
prosecution of such right, the time that such obstruction may have
continued shall not be computed as any part of the time within which
the said right might or ought to have been prosecuted. But this sec-
tion shall not avail against any other person than him so obstructed,
notwithstanding another might have been jointly sued with him, if 
there had been no such obstruction. And upon a contract which was
made and was to be performed in another state or country, by a person
who then resided therein, no action shall be maintained after the right
of action thereon is barred by the laws of such state or country. 
Further ti-.ie given when suit abates, or is defeated or1 ground not affecting the
right to recover. 
21. If an action, commenced within due time, in the name of or
against one or more plaintiffs or defendants, abate as to one of them
by the return of no inhabitant, or by his or her death or marriage, or
if, in an action commenced within due time, judgment for the plaintiff
shall be arrested or reversed, upon a. ground which does nottft:>reclude
a new action for the same cause, or if there be occasion to bring a new
suit by reason of the loss or destruction of any of the papers or re­
cords in a former suit which was in due time; in every such case, not­
withstanding the expiration of the time within which a. new action or
suit must otherwise have been brought, the same may be brought.
within one year after such abatement or such arrest or reversal of
judgment, or such loss or destruction, but not after. 
As to righlll e:cisting wlten this chapter takes effecL 
22. No action, suit, scire facias, or other proceeding which may be
pending on the day before the commencement of this act, or the right
to prosecute which, under the laws in force on that day, shall have 
accrued before that day, shall be barred by this chapter, any farther or
otherwise than as follows: the same, if pending on that day, shall be 
subject to such limitation as it would have been subject to if this a.ct 
. . . 
had not passed; and where not so pending, if the right to prosecute
the same shall exist on that day, for a certain number of years pre­
scribed by any statute, the same, or such other action as may be sub­ 
stituted therefor by this act, may be prosecuted within such time as
the same might have been prosecuted if this chapter had not been
enacted, and not after; and where not so pending, if the right to pro­
secute the same shall exist on that day, in a case in which no certain
number of years shall have been prescribed therefor by statute, the 
same, or such other action as may be substituted therefor by this act,
may be prosecuted within such time as the same would have to be
prosecuted if the right to bring it had accrued on the next day after 
the commencement of this act, 
WARRANTS, ATTACHllENTB, AND BA.IL. 
CH. 147. Of warrants for small claims.
148. Of attachments, and of bail. 
CHAPTER CXLVII. 
OF WARR,\STS .FOR SlULL CLAIMS. 
se. &c. 
l. For what Justice has jurilldiction; when 11. Motiom apm.st oonstablea.t evidence;
case may be romoved to court. duty of JUBtice in respect tnereto. 
2. How warrant is iaaued, directed, and re- 12. l When eonstable, &c., liable on auch mo-
turmble. 13., tion. 
3. Witnesses, how summoned and com- 14. Where diBtreas or levy on property, not
pelled to attend. exceeding t20 m value, and tiUe diB- 
4. l How warrant tried, and judgment given puted.
5. f and recorded. 16. } Wh al all ed fro · · ;i- t f 
i1 How appeal allowed and execution 17. Justice, how appeal to be tried.
t~· Btayed; how execution isaued, di-118. Notice of appeal; preferenoe over other 
ti When and by whom new trial a.warded. 16. . en .8P~ ow m Ju~ ... en o 
rected, and returnable; duty of clerk cases.
IO. J upon return to him. , 19, Exception ua to city of Richmond. 
For what justice has jurisdiction; when case may be removed to court. 
1. Any claim to property, or to any debt, fine, or other money, which
would be recoverable by action at law or suit in equity, shall, when the
claim is to a fine, if it be limited to an amount not exceeding twenty
dollars, and in other cases, if the claim be not of greater value or 
amount than fifty dollars (exclusive of interest), be cognizable by a
justice, and even if the claim be for or against the townor county in 
w hich such justice resides ; but in e;ery case where the sum or thing
in controversy exceeds the amount or value of twenty dollars, the jus- 
tice shall, upon the application of the defendant, at any time before
trial, remove the cause to the court of the county or corporation wherein
the same shall be brought, and the clerk of the said court shall docket
the same, and it shall be proceeded in as if it were a motion in said
court, under the sixth section of chapter one hundred and sixty-three,
of which the notice was docketed at the time such case is so docketed.* 
Lloio warrant is issued, directed, and returnable. 
2. A justice, when applied to by any person, shall issue a. warrant to 
tabl · · hi l · I h
a cons e, requmng rm to summon t re person against w iom t e 
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Title 46. 
• 
claim is made, to appear before him or some other justice on a certain
day, not exceeding thirty days from the date thereof, to answer such
claim. It shall be made returnable to some place within the consta­
ble's district in which the defendant resides, or in which the cause of
action arose, unless the justice, for good cause shown on oath, direct it 
to be returned to some other place within his county or corporation.* 
Witne&ses, how summoned and compelled to attend. 
3. Subpamas for witnesses may be issued by a justice, directed to a 
• • 
constable of any county or corporation. Any person summoned, to
attend as a witness before a justice who shall fail so to attend, shall,
unless he show a reasonable excuse therefor, within ten days after
being summoned to state such excuse, be fined by the justice before
whom the failure occurred, a sum not exceeding five dollars, for the use 
of the party on whose behalf he was summoned. 
How warrant tried, and judgment given and recorded. 
4. 'fhe justice shall try such warrant according to the principles of
law and equity, and give judgment for the sum due to either party, 
with interest, or for the property to which the plaintiff is entitled ( or
its value), with damages. Costs shall be awarded or refused to either
party, on the like principles. 
6. The justice rendering any such judgment shall, in a book kept for
such purpose, enter the date thereof, the name of the person for, and
of the person against whom it is, and its amount; also, the date of al7'f
execution issued thereon, and to whom delivered. If he fail to do so,
he shall forfeit twenty dollars. The cost of such book shall be charge­
able on the county or corporation. The justice shall also w,rite on the
face of the paper or writing on which the warrant issued, or on any
writing allowed 88 a set-off, the date and a.mount of the judgment and
costs, and affix his name thereto. 
W lien and by whom new trial ordered. 
6. After thirty days from any such judgment, no new trial shall bi 
granted in the case, nor shall it be granted within the thirty days, un­
less the opposite party be present at the time of the application, or 
unless after five days' notice to him (if in the county or corporation)
of the time and place of the application for such new trial. The jus­
tice who rendered the judgment, shall alone have power to grant such
new trial, while he is in office; if he die, resign, be absent from the
county, or be removed, it may be granted by another justice.'] 
How appeal allowed and execution stayed; how execution issued, directed, ~
returnable; duty of clerk upon return to him. 
7. If a judgment of a justice of the peace be for a sum exceeding
ten, and not exceeding twenty dollars, exclusive of interest and cos~ 
the justice rendering it may stay execution on it forty days from its
date. If the judgment be for a sum exceeding twenty, and not ex-
ceeding thirty dollars, he may stay execution on it sixty days from its 
date. If the judgment be for a sum exceeding thirty dollars, he may
stay execution on it ninety days from its date, on such security being
given in either case for its payment as he may deem sufficient. From
any such judgment, the justice rendering it may, within ten days, on
such security being given as he approves for the payment of the same,
and all costs and damages (if it be affirmed}, allow an appeal where
the case involves the constitutionality or validity of an ordinance or
by-law of a corporation, or where the matter in controversy, exclusive
of interest, is of greater amount or value than ten dollars. The verbal
acknowledgment of any surety taken under this section, shall be suffi-
cient, and the endorsement by the justice of the name of the surety
upon the warrant on which the judgment is rendered, shall be con-
clusive evidence of such acknowledgment. The court in which the
appeal is cognizable may, on motion, for good cause shown, require the 
appellant to give new or additional security, reasonable notice of such
motion having been given to said appellant; and if he fail to give such
security, the appeal shall be dismissed with costs, and the court shall
award execution on the judgment rendered by the justice, with costs,
against the appellant and his surety.* 
8. The justice rendering any judgment may issue a writ of fieri
facias thereon immediately, if there be not a new trial granted, nor an 
appeal allowed, nor a stay of execution; and where there is such stay
of execution, if the judgment be not paid within the forty or sixty
days, as the case may be, a writ of fieri facias shall thereupon be issued
by a justice against the party and his surety jointly, on which no se- 
curity shall be taken. When the judgment is for personal property,
the plaintiff may, at his option, have a. writ of possession for the re- 
covery of the specific property and a writ of fieri facias for the damages
and costs; and if the writ of possession prove ineffectual, a writ of fieri
facias for the alternative value; said writ of possession to be directed
to, executed and returned by the same officer who would execute the
writ of fieri facias. 
9. A writ of fieri facias issued by a.justice shall be directed to a con-
stable. It may be directed to and executed by a constable for any county 
or corporation which the plaintiff' may designate, and shall be return-
able within sixty days. If not wholly satisfied, it may, within one year 
from the judgment, be returned to and renewed by a. justice, notwith-
standing the provisions of chapter forty-nine. But every execution 
issued by a justice, which is not so returned and renewed, shall be re-
turned by the constable to the clerk's office of the court by which he
was appointed. And when for any cause it is unfit for a writ of fieri
facias to be directed to a constable, such writ shall be directed to and 
executed by a sheriff' or sergeant of the county or corporation. 
10. The clerk shall docket all executions returned by a constable,
and index the same in the name of both plaintiff and defendant, and
file them alphabetically, in a separate bundle for each year; for which
services the clerk shall be entitled to a fee, to be paid by the plaintiff
in each case, of twenty cents. Such further executions may be issued 
for the recovery of the amount due on any execution so returned, as
if the judgment on which it issued had been rendered in court. The
same may, at the option of the plaintiff, be directed to and executed
either by a constable or by a sheriff or sergeant; and the same pro­ 
ceedings shall be had upon executions issued under this section ns
upon executions issued upon judgments of courts. 
Motions against eonstables ; evidence, duty of justice in respect thereto. 
11. A copy from the entry in the justice's book of the date of any
execution issued by him, and to whom delivered, shall be evidence in
any proceeding against the officer to whom it is entered as delivered,
for failing to make due return thereof, or for failing to pay over money 
received thereon. If a justice, upon being applied to for a copy of
any entry, shall refuse it, and afterwards, upon being summoned to
produce the book in which such entry is or ought to have been made,
shall fail to produce such entry, he shall forfeit twenty dollars to the
person on whose behalf he is summoned. 
lVhen constable, &:c., liable on such motion. 
12. If an officer fail to make due return of any execution issued by 
a. justice, he may, after ten days' notice, be fined from time to time
by a justice, on the motion of the plaintiff in such execution, in like 
manner as a court may fine an officer who fails to make due return of
an execution issued from such court. And if an officer shall make
such return upon an execution issued by a. justice as would, on a mo­
tion against the officer, authorize Judgment to be entered against him 
for the amount of such execution, or any part thereof, if the execution
had issued from a court, the creditor on whose behalf such execution
issued, or his personal representative, may, on a. motion before a jus­
tice, after like notice, obtain such judgment against the officer, his
sureties and others as could be given by a court, if the execution had
issued from a court. This section shall not prevent a motion in court 
under chapter forty-nine, or under the fifth seetion of chapter one
hundred and sixty-three. 
13. If a constable collect money mentioned in an execution after the­
return day thereof, he and his sureties shall be liable for the money so
collected in like manner as if the collection had been before the return 
day. And if a. constable receive money on account of any claim en-
trusted to him to warrant for, and recoverable by warrant, he and his
sureties shall be liable for the money so received as for money collected
under execution; and after six months from the date of any receipt for
such claim, signed in his official character, such receipt shall be prims
facie evidence of the receipt of the money. 
14. When an execution on a judgment of a justice or a. warrant of
distress is levied upon property not of greater value than twenty dol- 
lars, which is claimed by any person other than the party against
whom it issued, such person may apply to a justice of the county or 
corporation in which the levy is, for a warrant to a constable requiring
him to summon both the creditor and. debtor, to show cause why the
property should not be discharged from the levy. The justice shall
issue such warrant, returnable in not less than five days; ind if an 
earlier day shall have been fixed for the sale of the property, he shall
make an order on the warrant, requiring the postponement of the sale
until after return day. Upon hearing the parties, or such of them as 
may attend after being summoned, he shall order the officer to deliver
the property to the claimant, or the person from whom it was taken,
or shall dismiss the summons, as may seem most proper, and may give
such judgment for costs as he may deem just. If the property be of
the value of ten dollars, the justice shall, within five days, allow an
appeal from such order and judgment, on security being given as in
the appeals before mentioned in this chapter. 
When appeal allowed from judgment of justice; how appeal I,() be tried.*
15. The justice from whose judgment al?- appeal is allowed, shall im- 
mediately deliver to the clerk of the court which hM cognizance of the
appeal, the original warrant, with the judgment and the name of the
surety endorsed thereon, and the clerk shall docket the same. . 
16. When an appeal is allowed from any order or judgment of a
justice, it shall be cognizable by the county or corporation court of 
such county or corporation, unless it be in a case involving the consti­
tutionality or validity of an ordinance or by-law of a corporation, in
which case it shall be cognizable by the circuit court having jurisdic-
tion over the county or corporation in .. which the.judgment is rendered. 
17. Every such appeal shall be tried in & summary way, without
pleadings in writing. The court trying it shall hear all the evidence
produced by either party, whether the same was produced before the 
justice from wh0&e decision the appeal is taken or not, and determine
it according to the principles of law and equity. If the decision be
affirmed, execution shall issue against the principal and his surety, 
jointly or separately, for the amount of the original judgment, includ-
ing interest and costs, with damages on the aggregate, at the rate of
ten per centum per annum, from the date of that judgment till pay-
ment, and for the costs of the appeal; and the execution shall be en­ 
dorsed, "no security to be taken." If the decision be reversed, the
appellant shall recover his costs; and such order or judgment shall be
made or given as ought to have been made or given by the justice.
Where the appeal is from an order or judgment under the thirteenth
section, the court shall give such judgment, respecting the property,
the expense of keeping it, and any injury done to it, as may be equita-
ble, among the parties. 
18. Either party to an appeal may give ten days notice to the other
party that a motion will be ma.de to try the appeal, and the court shall,
on the day named in the notice, whether at a quarterly or monthly
term, try the appeal, without regard to its place on the docket, unless
good cause be shown by the adverse party for a continuance, and if so
continued, shall try it 88 soon as may be thereafter.* 
Ste,
1. Attachment.a; when and how BUed out 
~ non-resident&.
2. .A.galnst defendant removing his effect.a 
pending auit. 
}
Against aebtora and tenant.a removing 
6. ! To whom directed, and where retuma-
7. ble, and how to be executed. 
!· ef1ecta, whether claim be payable or
•· not. 
6. Agalnat veasels in certain caaee. 
8. Duty of oflioer executing attachment; 
9. when to seize property.
10. Attachment iuued or executed on Sun- 
day.
11. Attoohment.s in equity; when and how. 
12. } Lien of attachment; where property
13. replevied; bond, how taken ana re- 
14. turned. 
Exception as to the city of Richmond. 
19. Nothing contained in this chapter, in conflict with the act enti­
tled an act conceining the jurisdiction of the mayor's court of the city
of Richmond, passed the twenty-seventh day of February, one thou·
sand eight hundred and forty-nine, shall be construed to repeal the 
same.j 
CHAPTER CXLVIIJ.t 
OF ATTACHMENTS, AND OF BAIL. 
15
} How interest or proflta o.pplied in certain 
16
• caaes ; how attached property kept ; 
· when it mlly be sold.
17. } Proceeding against garniahee aa to debts, 
18. &c., admitted, or to ascertain debt&,
19. &c., not admitted by him. 
20. When order of publication made. 
&c. 
21.1 What and by whom defenoe may be 
H. made. 
23. Proceedings when claim of plaintiff IIU9- 
2-l. tained.
25 
} How and when claim of other parties to
26: :!!!~perty tried ; priority of attach· 
27. f When debtor may have cue reheard; u
28. f to decree of restitution.
29. Att.acbmenta for debts under twenty dol­ 
lara. 
so. When plaintiff liable for damages. 
Ill, When ap_peal bond given, property dis-
charged. 
32. Bonde may be given by any penon. 
33
} Bail required of defendante leaving state; 
34
• form of writ; when arrest and com- 
. mitment to be made.
35. } How party may proceed to obtain dia- 
86. charge; prooeea to compel diacl08UJ'e
87. of estate. 
38. To whom conveyanoe to be made; return
to oourt; dispoaition of property. 
39. Plaintiff to give bond for damages and
oosta. 
Attachments; when and how sued out against non-reddents.f
I. When any suit is instituted for any debt, or for damages for breach 
of any contract, on affidavit stating the amount and justice of the
claim, that there is present cause of action therefor, that the defend­
ant or one of the defendants is not a resident of this state, and that 
the affiant believes he has estate or debts due him within the county
or corporation in which the suit is, or that he is sued with a defendant
residing therein, the plaintiff may forthwith sue out of the clerk's office 
an attachment against the estate of the non-resident defendant for the
amount so stated. 
Agaimt defendant removi.ng his effects pending &Uit.
2. On affidavit at the time of or after the institution of any suit that 
the plaintiff's claim is believed to be just, and, where the suit-is to re-
cover specific personal property, stating the nature, and, according to
the affiant's belief, the value of such property, and the probable amount
of damages the plaintiff will recover for the detention thereof, or where
it is to recover money for any claim or damages for any wrong, stating
a certain sum which (at the least) the affiant believes the plaintiff is
entitled to or ought to recover, a.nd an affidavit also that the affiant be-
lieves that the defendant is removing or intends to remove such specific 
property or his own estate, or the proceeds of the sale of his property,
or a material part of such estate or proceeds, out of this state, so that
process of execution on a judgment in said suit, when it is obtained,
will be unavailing, in any such case the clerk shall issue an attachment
as the case may require. If the suit be for specific property, the attach-
ment may be against the specific property sued for, and against the
defendant's estate for so much as is sufficient to satisfy the probable
damages for its detention, or at the option of the plaintiff, against the
defendant's estate for the value of such specific property and the dam-
ages for its detention. If the suit be to recover money for a claim, or
damages for Ji. wrong, the attachment shall be against the defendant's
estate, for the amount specified in the affidavit as that which the affiant
believes the plaintiff is entitled to or ought to recover. 
Against debtor, and tenant, remwing eff eeu, whether claim be payable or not.
· 3. On complaint by any person, or his agent, to any justice, whether 
bis claim is payable or not, that his debtor intends to remove, or is re-
moving, or has removed his effects out of this state, so that there will: 
probably not be therein sufficient effects of the debtor to satisfy the
claim when judgment is obtained therefor, should only the ordinary 
process of law be used to obtain such judgment, if such person, or his
agent, make oa.th to the truth of such complaint, to the best of his 
belief, as well as to the amount and justice of his claim, and at what
time the same is payable, the justice shall issue an attachment against
the estate of the defendant for the amount so stated. 
4. On complaint by any lessor, or his agent, to a. justice, that any
person liable to him for rent intends to remove, or is removing, or has,
within thirty days, removed his effects from the leased premises, if such 
lessor, or his agent, make oath to the truth of such complaint, to the
best of his belief, and to the rent which is reserved (whether in money 
or other thing), and will be payable within one year, and the time or==:\:-.
times when it will be so payable, and also make oath either that there 
is not, or he believes, unless an attachment issues, there will not be
left on such premises property liable to distress sufficient to satisfy the 
rent so to become payable, such justice shall issue an attachment for
the said rent against such goods as might be distrained for the same if
it had become payable, and against any other estate of the· person so 
liable therefor. 
Agaimt vessel8. in certain C48ts. 
5. If any person has any claim against the master or owner of any
steamboat or other vessel, raft or river craft, or against any steamboat 
or other vessel, raft or river craft found within the jurisdiction of this
state, for materials or supplies furnished or provided, or for work done
for, in or upon the same, or for wharfage, salvage, pilotage, or for any
contract for the transportation of, or for any injury done to any person
or property by such steamboat or other vessel, raft or river craft, or by
any person having charge of her or in her employment, such person
may, either in a pending suit or without the previous institution of any
suit, sue out of the clerk's office of the court of the county, or the cir­
cuit court of the county, or of the court of the corporation, or of the
circuit court of the corporation in which such steamboat or other ves­
sel, raft or river era.ft may be found, an attachment against such steam­
boat or other vessel, raft or river craft, with all her tackle, apparel and
furniture, or against the estate of such master or owner; and it shall
not be necessary, in such attachment, to set forth the name of such
master or owner. The order of publication, required by the twentieth
section of this chapter, may be against the owner or master of the
steamboat or other vessel, raft or river craft attached, and against the
person liable, by description, and without setting forth his name. Any
attachment may be sued out under this section, for a cause of action
that may have arisen without the jurisdiction of this state, if the steam­
boat or other vessel, raft or river craft be within the jurisdiction of this
state at the time the attachment is sued out er executed. 
7b UJ!wm diruted, and where retumahle, and lwu, to be' uecuud. 
-- 
6. Any attachment, issued under this chapter, may be directed to
the sheriff, sergeant or constable of any county or corporation. If is­ 
sued in a pending suit, it shall be returnable to a term of the court in
which the same is pending, or to some rule day thereof. Where issued
by a justice, it shall, if the claim is over twenty dollars ( exclusive of 
' ) b bl h . f h la.i '4' h
Interest , e returna e, at t e option o t e p nt1u., tot e next term 
of the circuit, county or corporation court of the county or corporation
in which the debtor last resided, or in which the leased tenement may
be. The judge of the circuit court to which any attachment may be 
made returnable, or any other circuit court judge, may, in vacation, 
upsn ten days' notice to the attaching creditor, hear testimony upon
the question, and if of opinion that the attachment was sued out with·
out sufficient cause, may qnash or dismiss the attachment. 
7. Every such attachment (except where it is sued out specially
against specified property) may be levied upon any estate, real or per­
aonal, of the defendant, or so much thereof as is sufficient to pay the
amount for which it issues, and may be levied upon any estate of the
defendant, whether the same be in the county or corporation where
the suit is, or in any other, either by the officer of the county or eor' 
poration wherein the action is brought, or by the officer of the county
or corporation where the estate is, It shall be sufficiently levied in
every case, by a service of a copy of such attachment on such persons
as may be designated by the plaintiff in writing, or be known to the
officer to be in possession of effects of, or to be indebted to, the defen­
dant; and as to real estate, by such estate being mentioned and de­
scribed by endorsement on such attachment. 
Duty of officer executing attachment] when to seize property.
8. But if the plaintiff shall, at the time of suing out such attach- 
ment, or afterwards, give bond with security, approved by the clerk or
justice issuing the attachment, in a penalty of at least double the 
amount of the claim sworn to or sued for, with condition to pay all costs
and damages which may be awarded against him, or sustained by any 
person, by reason of bis suing out the attachment, the said officer shall
tak 
• f h ified · h h h
e possession o t e property speer m t e. attac ment, or w ere 
no such property is specified, of any estate or effects of the defendant,
or so much thereof as is sufficient to pay the plaintiff's claim. When
such bond is given, the fact shall be endorsed on the attachment, or
certified by the clerk or justice to the officer, who shall return the said
certificate with the attachment ; and the bond, when taken by a jus-
tice, shall be returned by him to, and filed in, the clerk's office of the 
court to which the attachment is returnable.
9. In either case, the officer shall return with the attachment the 
names of the persons designated as having effects of, or owing debts to 
the defendant; shall summon them to appear as garnishees, at the first
day of the court to which the attachment is returnable, or if the at- 
tachment be returnable at rules, at the first day of the next term af'ter
it is returnable, and shall also return a list and description of the pro-
perty taken (if any) under such attachment; and likewise the date of
the service, or execution thereof, on each person and parcel of property. 
Attachment may he i&,uecl (ff' executed on Sunday. 
10. Such attachment may be issued or executed on Sunday, if oath
be made that the defendant is actuatly removing his effects on that day. 
.A.ttachmenu in equity;* when and l,.010. 
11. A claim to any debt, or to damages for breach of any con tract,
against a person who is not a resident of this state, but who has estate 
or debts due him within the same, may, if such claim exceed twenty
dollars, exclusive of interest, be maintained in any court of equity for:=:: 
a county or corporation in which there may be any such estate, or a
defendant owing any debt to such non-resident. When a person has 
h
I
. h I . b . led . . 
sue c aim, or w en a person c aims to e entit m equity to any
money or property from a person against whom and for which an 
attachment might be sued out of a clerk's office, if the claim were~~
recoverable at law, there may be an affidavit, according to the nature 
of the case, conforming as near as its nature will admit, to what is spe­
cified in previous sections; and such affidavit may be at the time of or
after the institution of the suit. Upon such affidavit, the plaintiff may
require the clerk to endorse on a summons an order to the officer to
whom it is directed, to attach the specific property (if any be mentioned
in the affidavit), and the debts due, or to become due, by other defend­
ante (if any) to the defendant against whom the claim is, and also any 
other estate of that defendant, whether in his own hands or in the
hands of other defendants. Any attachment under this section shall
be executed in the same manner, and shall have the same effect as at 
law, but the proceedings therein shall be the same as in other suits in
chancery. And the court, or in the vacation thereof, a judge of a cir­ 
cuit court may interpose by injunction, or the appointment of a receiver,
or otherwise, to secure the forthcoming of the specific property sued
for, and so much other estate as will probably be required to satisfy
any future order or decree that will be made in the cause. 
Lien of attachment; where property replevied; bond, how taken and returned.
12. The plaintiff shall have a lien from the time of the levying of 
such attachment, or serving a copy thereof as aforesaid, upon the per­
sonal property, choses in action, and other securities of the defendant
against whom the claim is, in the hands of or due from any such gar­
nishee on whom it is so served, and on any real estate mentioned in an
endorsement on the attachment or subpcens, from the suing out of the 
same.
13. Any property levied on or seized as aforesaid, under any attach­ 
ment, where the plaintiff has given bond, may be retained by or re­
turned to the person in whose possession it was, on his giving bond,
with condition to have the same forthcoming at such time and place
as the court may require; or the defendant against whom the claim is,
may release from any attachment the whole of the estate attached by
giving bond, with condition to perform the judgment or decree of the
court. The bond, in either case, shall be taken by the officer serving 
the attachment, with security payable to the plaintiff, and in a penalty 
in the latter case at least double the amount or value for which the
attachment issued; and in the former, either double the same or double
the value of the property retained or returned, at the option of the
person giving it. 
14. Every such bond shall be returned by the officer to and filed by 
the clerk of the court in which the suit is pending, or to which the
attachment is returnable, and the plaintiff may, within thirty days
after the return thereof, file exceptions to the same, or to the suffi­
ciency of the security therein. If such exception be sustained, the
court shall rule the said officer to file a good bond, with sufficient se­
curity, to be approved by it, on or before a certain day to be fixed by 
the court. If he fail to do so, he and his sureties in his official bond
shall be liable to the plaintiff as for a breach of such bond; but the
officer shall have the same r~hts and remedies against the parties to 
any bonds so adjudged bad as if he were a surety for them, 
15. When any attachment is sued out, either at law or in equity, on
such affidavit as is mentioned in the second or third section, although
the property or estate attached be not replevied as aforesaid, the inter­
ests and profits thereof, pending the suit and before judgment or de­
cree, may be paid to the defendant, if the court deem it proper, and 
at any time during such period, the court, or a judge of a circuit court
in vacation, may discharge the attachment, as to the whole of the
estate of the defendant against whom the claim is, on his giving bond,
with security payable to the plaintiff, in a. penalty double the value oi 
such estate, with condition, if judgment or decree be rendered for the
plaintiff in said suit, to pay the said value, or so much thereof as may 
be necessary to satisfy the same.
16. All property seized under any attachment or enjoining order of 
f
h d
1
' d Id b . d 
a court o o ancery, an not rep evie or so efore JU gment or de-
cree, shall be kept in the same manner as similar property taken under
execution; but such as is expensive to keep or perishable, may be sold
by order of the court, or if it be a circuit court or the court of chan-
cery of the city- of Richmond, in vacation thereof, by order of the 
judge; such sale to be made in the same manner as if it were a sale
under execution, except that when tfle claim for which the attach-
ment wa.s sued out is not yet payable, or the court or judge sees other
reason for directing a. credit, the sale under this or any other section
of this chapter shall be on credit until the time it is payable, or such
other time as the court or judge may direct; and for the proceeds of
sale, bond, with good security, shall be taken, payable to the officer,
for the benefit of the party entitled, and shall be returned by the officer
to the court. 
Proceeding agaimt garni8hee as to debts, &c., admitted, or to ascertain dehu, ~c., 
not admitted by liim. 
17. When any garnishee shall appear, he shall be examined on oath.
If 
it h . ti b hi to bill i it 
1 appear, on sue examma 10n, or y is answer a 1 m eqw y,
that at or after the service of the attachment he wa.s indebted to the
defendant against whom the claim is, or had in his possession or con-
trol any goods, chattels, money, securities, or other effects belonging to 
the said defendant, the court may order him to pay the amount so due
by him, and to deliver such effects to such person as it may appoint as
receiver; or such garnishee, with the leave of the court, may give bond,
with sufficient security, payable to such person, and in such penalty as
the court shall prescribe, with condition to pay the amount due by him,
and have such effects forthcoming, at such time and place as the court
may thereafter require: provided, that the judgment debtor may claim
that the amount so found due from the garnishee shall be exempt from 
the payment of the debt to the judgment creditor; and if it shall ap-
pear that the said judgment debtor has not cl&imed and held as exempt
the amount of his homestead in other property or thing, then the oourt
shall not render a judgment for the amount so found due in favor of 
the judgment creditor, except it be for the excess of the same. over
and above the homestead exemption. 
18. If any garnishee summoned as aforesaid fail to appear in an at­
tachment at law, the court may either compel him to appear, or hear
proof of any debt due by him to or of effects in his hands of the de­
fendan tin such attachment, and make such orders in relation thereto
as if what is so proved ha.d appeared on his ·e:x,amination. 
19. When it is suggested by the plaintiff in any attachment at law1 
that the garnishee has not fully disclosed the debts due by him to or
effects in his hands of the defendant in such attachment, the court
shall cause a. jury to be impaneled, without any formal pleading, to 
inquire as to such debts and effects, and proceed, in respect to any
•uch found by the jury, in the same manner as if they had been con­
fessed by the garnishee. If the verdict be in favor of the garnishee,
he shall have judgment for his costs against the plaintiff.* 
When order of publication made.
20. When any attachment, except under the third or fourth section, 
is returned executed, an order of publication shall be made against
the defendant againat whom the claim is, unless he has been served
with a copy of the attachment or with process in the suit in which the
attachment issued. 
What and by iohom defence may be made. 
21. Either of the defendants in any such attachment, or any gar­
nishee, or any party to any forthcoming or replevy bond given as afore·
said, or the officer, who may be liable to the plaintiff by reason of such
bond being adjudged bid, may make defence to such attachment, but
the attachment shall not thereby be discharged or the property -levied
on released. 
22. The right to sue out any such attachment may be con tested; and
when the court is of opinion that it was issued on false suggestions, or
without sufficient cause, judgment shall be entered that the attachment
be abated. When the attachment is properly sued out, and the case
heard upon its merits, if the court be of opinion that the claim of the
plaintiff is not established, final judgment shall be given for the de­ 
fendant, In either case he shall recover his costs, and there shall be 
an order for the restoration to him of the attached effects. 
Proceedi.ngs wlien claim of plaintij}' sustained. 
23. If the claim of the plaintiff be established, judgment or decree
shall be· rendered for him, and the court shall dispose of the specific 
property mentioned in the second section as may be right, and order
the sale of any other effects or real estate, which shall not have been 
previously replevied or sold under this chapter, and direct the pro- 
-.l- f ~ 1 d h 1 . bi h b . 1 di 
ceens o sa e, an w atever e se ts su ~ect to t e attac ment, me u ng
what is embraced by such replevy or forthcoming bond, to be applied 
in satisfaction of the judgment or decree. But no real estate shall be
sold until a.Ii other property and money subject to the attachment bas
been exhausted, and then only so much thereof as is necessary to pay 
the judgment or decree.
24. But if the defendant, against whom the claim is, bas not ap- 
peared or been served with a copy of the attachment sixty days before
such decree, the plaintiff shall not have the benefit of the preceding
section, unless or until he shall have given bond, with sufficient secu­
rity, in such penalty as the court shall approve, with condition to per­
form such future order as may be made upon the appearance of the
said defendant and his making defence. If the plaintiff fail to give 
such bond, in a reasonable time, the court shall dispose of the estate
attached, or the proceeds thereof, as to it shall seem just .. 
How and when claim of other parties to the property tried; priority of attach­
ment. 
25. Any person may file his petition, at any time before the pro.
perty attached as the estate of a defendant is sold, or the proceeds of
sale paid to the plaintiff under the decree or judgment, disputing the 
validity of the plaintiff's attachment thereon, or stating a. claim thereto,
or an interest in or lien on the same, under any other attachment or 
'otherwise, and its nature, and upon giving security for costs, the court,
without any other pleading, shall impanel a jury to enquire into such
claim, and if it be found that the petitioner has title to, or a lien on,
or any interest in, such property or its proceeds, the court shall make
such order as is necessary to protect his rights; the. costs of which ea-
quiry shall be paid by either party, at the discretion of the court .. 
26. The attachment first served on the same property, or on the per- 
h
. h t . . h 11 h .. it f 1· 
son avmg sue proper y m possession, s a ave priorr y o ten. 
When debtor may have case reheard; as to decree of restitution. 
27. If a defendant, against whom, on publication, judgment or de-
cree ·is rendered under any such attachment, or his persona.I repre- 
sentative, shall return to or appear openly in this state, he may, within:
one year after a copy of such judgment or decree shall be served on 
him at the instance of the plaintiff, or within five yea.rs from the date
of the decree or judgment, if he be not so served, petition to have the
proceedings reheard. On giving security for costs, he shall be admitted 
to make defence against such judgment or decree, as if he had appeared
in the case before the same was rendered, except that the title of any
bona fide purchaser to any property, real or personal, sold under such
attachment, shall not be brought in question or impeached. But this
section shall not apply to any case in which the petitioner, or his dece-
dent, was served with a copy of the attachment, or with process in the
suit wherein it issued, more than sixty days before the date of the
judgment or decree, or to any case in which he appeared and made 
defence. ·
28. On any rehearing or new trial had under the preceding section, 
the court may order the plaintiff in the original suit to restore any mer
ney, paid to him under such judgment or decree, to the heir or repre- 
sentative of such defendant as the same may be, the proceeds of real
or personal estate; and enter a. judgment or decree therefor against
him, or it may confirm the former judgment or decree; and in either 
case adjudge the costs to the prevailing party. 
Attachmenta for debt« under twenty dollars. 
29. Any creditor whose claim, whether legal or equitable, does not
ed d Ila.rs 1 ' f . l . h 
exce twenty o , exo usive o interest, upon comp a.mt on oat
in the manner prescribed by the first, second, third and seventh sec­
tions, as the case may be, may obtain from any justice of any county or 
corporation in which any property or effects of the defendant may be, 
or in which any person indebted to him may reside, an attachment
against the estate of such defendant, directed to the sheriff or ser­
geant, or any constable of his county or corporation, and returnable be­
fore any justice thereof; and thereupon such proceedings may be had
before the justice as would, if the claim exceeded twenty dollars, be 
had before a court, except that the proceedings shall in all cases be 
without any formal pleadings, and an order of publication need not be
published in any newspaper, and the justice shall try and decide all
questions without a jury. All bonds ta.ken under such attachment
shall be filed with the clerk of the court of the county to which the
justice belongs. 
When plaintiff liable for damages.
30. If, upon defence being made, in any case in which property is 
seised under an attachment, that the attachment was sued out without
sufficient cause, it be found, either by the court or by the jury, if one
be impaneled, that the defence is well founded, judgment may be en­
tered for the defendant against the plaintiff for the damages sustained
by the defendant by reason thereof. 
When appeal bond given, property discharged, 
31. Where judgment or decree in favor of the plaintiff is rendered
in any case in which an attachment is sued out, and on appeal there­
from an appeal bond is given, with condition to prosecute the appeal
with effect or pay the debt, interest, costs, and damages, as well as the
costs of the appeal, the officer in whose custody any attached property 
may be, shall deliver the same to the owner thereof. 
Bonds may he given by any person. 
32. Any bond authorized or required by any seetien of this chapter
may be given either by the party himself or by any other person. 
* Bail required of defendants leaving state] form of writ; when arres: and com­
· mitment to be made. 
33. If a plaintiff in any action or suit shall, by affidavit, show to the 
satisfaction of the court in ~hich it is pending, or to any judge or jus-
. f h h h h f . it . t d ~ d 
tice o t e peace, t at e as cause o action or sui agains a eren ·
ant, and that there is probable cause for believing that the said defend-
ant is about to quit this state, unless he be forthwith apprehended, it
shall be lawful for such court, judge, or justice to direct that such de-
fendant shall be held to bail for such sum as the said court, judge, or 
justice may think fit; and thereupon the said plaintiff may sue out of
the clerk's office, in such action or suit, a writ of capias ad responden-
dum against said defendant; the form of which writ shall, in a suit in
equity, as well as in an action at law, be as nearly as may be assimilated 
to the form of such writ as it was used at law before the commencement
of the Code of Virginia. 
34. Under such capias, the defendant against whom it issues, shall be
arrested and committed to jail, unless bond be given in the sum afore- 
said, with sufficient security, that in case there shall in the action or
suit be any judgment, decree, or order on which a writ of :fieri facias
may issue, and within four months after such judgment, decree, or
order interrogatories be filed, under the fifth section of chapter one
hundred and eighty-four, with a commissioner of the court wherein
such judgment, decree, or order is, the said defendant will, at the time
the commissioner issues a summons to answer such interrogatories, be
in the county or corporation in which such commissioner may reside,
and will, within the time prescribed in such sum~ons, file proper an-
swers, upon oath, to such interrogatories, and make such conveyance
and delivery as is required by the said chapter, or in case of failure to 
file such answers and make such conveyance and delivery, that the
said defendant will perform and satisfy the said judgment, decree, or
order. 
How party may proceed to obtain discharge; process to compel diacl-Osure of estate.
35. The defendant arrested under a capias may, at any time pending 
the case, give bond to the officer making the arrest. Such bond shall
be taken by said officer and returned by him to the clerk of the court
from which the oapias issued, and the same shall be filed in said clerk's 
office.
36. If the defendant give such bond, or be committed to jail for 
want of it, the court in which the case is pending, or if it be a circuit
court, the judge thereof in vacation may, after reasonable notice to the
plaintiff, or his attorney or counsel, quash the capias and discharge the
defendant from custody, or discharge the bond, on being satisfied that
there was not probable cause for believing that the defendant was about 
to quit the state, and whether there was such cause or not, may dis­
charge him from custody when the plaintiff is cast in the action or suit. 
37. While a defendant is in custody, whether under an arrest made
heretofore or hereafter, the plaintiff, without having a judgment against 
the defendant, may file interrogatories to him in like manner as might
be done under the fifth section of chapter one hundred and eighty.
four if such judgment had been obtained and a fieri faciaa thereon
delivered to an officer. · And the court wherein the case is pending, or 
• judge of a circuit court, or a commissioner of a. circuit, county, or
corporation court, or a justice of the peace, after reasonable notice to 
the plaintiff, or his attorney or counsel, may discharge a defendant
from custody, unless interrogatories be flied within such time as the
said court, judge, commissioner, or justice may deem reasonable; or,
though interrogatories be filed, may discharge him when proper answers
thereto are filed and proper conveyance and delivery ma.de. A county 
or corporation court may a.ct under this or the preceding section, either
at a monthly or a quarterly term.* 
1b wlu,m conveyance to be made] return to court; disp08itwn of property.
38. The officer making the arrest shall be the officer to whom the 
conveyance shall be ma.de. The interrogatories, answers, and report
of the commissioner shall be returned to the court in which the case
is pending, and filed with the papers of such case. And the said court
may make such order as it may deem right as to the sale and proper
application of the estate conveyed and delivered under the preceding
section. · 
Plaintiff to give bond for damages and costs.
39. Before a cspias is sued out of the clerk's office in any action or 
suit, the plaintiff in such action or suit, or some other person, shall
file in the clerk's office, bond, with security approved by the clerk, in
a penalty equal to the sum in which the defendant is directed to be 
held to bail, payable to said defendant, and conditioned to pay him all
costs and damages which may be a.warded against the plaintiff or sus­
tained by the defendant by reason of the arrest of the defendant under 
said capias. 
1. Upon affidavit of a defendant in any action that he claims no in-
terest in the subject matter of the suit, but that some third party has
a. claim thereto, and that he does not co1lude with such third party,
but is ready to pay or dispose of the subject matter of the action as the
court may direct, the court may make an order requiring such third
party to appear and state the nature of his claim, and maintain or re-
linquish it, and in the meantime stay the proceedings in such action. 
If such third party, on being served with such order, shall not appear,
the court may, on proof of the plaintiff's right, render judgment for
him, and declare such third party to be forever barred of any claim in
respect of the subject matter, either against the plaintiff or the origi-
nal defendant, or his personal representative. If such third party, on
being so served, shall appear, the court shall allow him to make him-
self defendant in the action, and, either in said action or otherwise,
cause such issue or issues to be tried as it may prescribe, and may di-
rect which party shall be considered the plaintiff in the issues, and
shall give judgment upon the verdict rendered on such trial, or if a 
jury be waived by the parties interested, shall determine their claims
in a summary way. 
How claim of third party tried to property distrained or levied ori. 
2. When property, of the value of more than twenty dollars, is taken
d f 
di • • db • • h
un er a warrant o istress, or an execution issue ya Justice, or w en 
property of any value is taken under an execution issued by the clerk
of a court, and any person, other than the party against whom the pro-
cess issued, claims such property, or the proceeds or value thereof, the 
circuit court, or the court of the county or corporation in which the
property is taken, or the judge of such circuit court in vacation, upon
the application of the officer, where no indemnifying bond has been
given, or, if one has been given, on the application of the person who
claims such property and has given such suspending bond as is herein­
after mentioned, may cause to appear before such court as well the
party issuing such process as the party making such claim, and such
court may exercise, for the decision of their rights, all or any of the
powers and authority prescribed in the preceding section. 
Power of court in cases under preceding section.
3. Such court, on the application of the party issuing said process, 
may cause to appear before it the party making such claim, and may
exercise the like powers and authority. In such case as is mentioned
in this or the preceding section, the court, where no bond is given for
the forthcoming of the property, or if it be a circuit court, the judge
thereof in vacation may, before a decision of the rights, make an order
for the sale of the property, or any part thereof, on such terms as the
court or judge may deem advisable, and for the proper application of
the proceeds according to the said rights. In any case before men­
tioned in this chapter, the court may make ail such rules and orders,
and enter such judgment as to costs and all 'other matters as may he
just and proper. 
Indemnifying bond to officer; his course where it is given, and where not. 
4. If any officer levies, or is required to levy an execution 01· a war­ 
rant of distress on property, or to attach money or property under an
attachment, issued either by a justice of the peace or by the clerk of
any court, and a doubt shall arise whether the said money or property
is liable to such levy or attachment, he may give the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney-at-law, notice that an indemnifying bond is required in the
CMe; bond may thereupon be given by any person, with good security,
payable to the officer, in a penalty equal to double the value of the
property, conditioned to indemnify him against all damages \\rhich he
moy sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale of said property, and
to pay to any claimant of such property all damages which he may sus­
tain in consequence of such seizure or sale, and also to warrant and
defend to any purchaser of the property such estate or interest therein
as is sold. 
5. If 'such bond be not given within a reasonable time after such
notice, the officer may refuse to levy on or to attach such property, or
may restore it to the person from whose possession it was taken, as the
case may be. If it be given, where there has been no levy, within a
reasonable time, or after a levy or attachment, before the property is 
so restored, it shall be returned within twenty days to the clerk's office 
from which the execution or attachment issued, or if the execution or
attachment was not issued by a clerk, to the office of the court to which 
the attachment is returnable, or in the event it be an execution, to the
office of the court by which such officer was appointed or in which he 
qualified. 
6. The claimant or purchaser of such property shall, after such bond
is so returned, be barred of any action against the officer levying thereon,
provided the security therein be good at the time of taking it; but the
sale of any such property shall be suspended at the instance of any 
claimant thereof who shall deliver to the officer bond, with good se-
curity, in a penalty equal to double the value thereof, payable to said 
officer, conditioned to pay to all persons who may be injured by sus-
pending the sale thereof, until the claim thereto can be adjusted, such
damages as they may sustain by such suspension. Upon any such bond
as is mentioned in this or the preceding section, suit may be prosecuted
in the name of the officer for the benefit of the claimant, creditor, pur-
chaser, or other person injured, and such damages recovered in said suit
as a jury may assess. The same may be prosecuted and execution had
in the name of such officer when he is dead in like manner as if he
were alive. 
How f<>rthcoming bond may be taken for property, sale of which haa been SIU· 
pended.
7. The sheriff or other officer levying a writ of fieri fa.cias or distress 
warrant on property, the sale of which is suspended under this chap-
ter at the instance of a. claimant thereof, may, if such claimant desire
the property to remain in such possession as it was immediately before
the levy, and if the case be one in which a bond for the forthooming
of the property is not prohibited from being taken from the debtor by
the...sixth section of chapter one hundred and eighty-five, take from
the claimant a bond, with sufficient surety, payable to the creditor,
with such recital as is required in a forthcoming bond ta.ken from the
debtor, and with condition that the property shall be forthcoming at 
such day and place of sale as may be thereafter lawfully appointed:
whereupon, such property may be permitted to remain, a.t the risk of
such claimant, in such possession as it was immediately before the levy, 
and the second, third, fifth, sixth, and seventh sections of chapter ones
hundred and eighty-five shall apply to such forthcoming bond in like
manner as to a. forthcoming bond taken from the debtor. 
When property sells for more than the claim, ~w surplus to be paid.
8. When property, the sale of which is indemnified, sells for more 
than enough to satisfy the execution, attachment, or distress warrant
under which it is taken, the surplus shall be paid by the officer into 
the court to the office whereof the indemnifying bond is required to
be returned, or as such court may direct. The said court may take
such order for the disposition thereof, either temporarily, until the
question as to the title to the property sold is determined, or absolutely,
as in respect to the rights of those interested may seem to it proper. 
I. Persons desiring to end any controversy, whether there be a suit
pending therefor or not, may submit the same to arbitration, and agree
that such submission may be entered of record in any court. Upon 
proof of such agreement out of court, or by consent of the parties
given in court, in person or by counsel, it shall be entered in the pro­
ceedings of such court; and thereupon a rule shall be made, that the
parties shall submit to the award which shall be made in pursuance of
such agreement. 
2. No such submission, entered, or agreed to be entered, of record
in any court, shall be revocable by any party to such submission, with­
out the leave of such court; and such court may, from time to time,
enlarge the term within which an award is required to be made. 
Ho» award i8 entered <U judgment of court; f o,r what award may be ,et alilk. 
3. Upon the return of any such award, made under such an agree­
ment (whether any previous record of the submission, or a rule there­ 
upon, has been made or not), it shall be entered up 88 the judgment
or decree of the court, unless good cause be shown against it at the 
first term after the parties have been summoned to show cause 
.. 
against 1 t.
4. No such award. shall be set aside, except for errors apparent on its 
face, unless it appear to have been procured by corruption or other un­
due means, or that there was partiality or misbehavior in the arbitra­ 
tors or umpires, or any of them. But this section shall not be oon- 
Fiduciary may mbmit to arbitration. 
• 
strued to take away the power of courts of equity over awards. 
5. Any personal representative of a decedent, guardian of an infant,
committee of an insane person, or trustee, may submit to arbitration
any suit or matter of controversy touching the estate or property of
such decedent, infant or insane person, or in respect to which he i.9
trustee. And any submission so made in good faith, and the award
made thereupon, shall be binding and entered as the judgment of a
court, if so required by the agreement, in the same manner as other
submissions and awards. No such fiduciary shall be responsible for
any loss sustained by an award adverse to the interests of his ward, in·
sane person, or beneficiary under any such trust, unless it was caused
by his fault or neglect." ' 
I. When a writ of mandamus is issued, the return thereto shall atate, 
plainly and concisely, the matter of law or fact relied on in ·opposition
to the complaint. 
2. The complainant may thereupon demur to the return, or plead
specially thereto, or both. 
. 
3. The defendant may reply, take issue on, or demur to, the pleas of 
h 1
• t 
t e comp aman . 
What judgment to he rendered.
•· If a verdict be found, or judgment rendered, for the person suing 
out the writ, on demurrer or by nil dicit, or for want of a replication
or other pleading, he shall recover his costs and such damages as the 
jury may assess, and final judgment thereupon shall be entered and
enforced by execution, as in other cases; and a peremptory mandamus 
shall be awarded without delay, as if the return to the writ had been
adjudged insufficient. 
5. If judgment be rendered for the defendant, he shall recover his
costs. 
CHAPTER CLII. 
OF TBJ: WRIT 01' PROHIBITION. t 
Writ of prohibition, lww applied for; proceeding, thereon; C08t8 and damagu. 
1. It shall not be necessary to file a suggestion on any application for
a writ of prohibition, but the same may be applied for on affidavits only; 
and in case the party applying be directed to declare in prohibition, 
25. before writ issued, the declaration shall be expressed to be on behalf
of such party only, and not on the behalf of the party and of the com­ 
monwealth, and shall contain and set forth, in a concise manner, so
much only of the proceeding as may be necessary to show the ground
of the application without alleging the delivery of a writ or any con­
tempt, and shall conclude by praying that a writ of prohibition may
issue, to which declaration the defendant may demur, or plead such
matters, by way of traverse or otherwise, as may be proper to show that
the writ ought not to issue, and conclude by praying that such writ
may not issue; and judgment shall be given that the writ of prohibi­
tion do or do not issue, as justice may require; and the party in whose
favor such judgment is given, whether on verdict or otherwise, shall
recover his costs; and in case a verdict shall be given for the plaintiff',
the jury may assess damages, for which judgment shall also be given,
but such assessment shall not be necessary to entitle the plaintiff to 
costs. 
CHAPTER CLIII. 
OF THE WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.* 
&c. I Ste.
1, l How writ iasued, directed and returna- 9. l Judge bas power of a oou.rt; tone and 
2. J ble. 10. J eifect of judgment.
8. Bond mar be oired of petitioner. 11. How and when oourt of appeals nm- 
4. l How writ ee~; penalty for dillobey- mooed to try appeal fl'om such judg- 
6. J ing it. I ment.
6. Power of the oourt or judge trying the 12. Writ of error or suspending order, wbftl 
writ. prisoner remanded; when he ii ad·
7 
} When affidavit. mar be read; fa.eta mitt.ed to bail.
,; proved may be made part of the re- j lS. Writ de homine replegiando aboliahed. 
• cord. H. Writ. of habeas oorpua ad teaWlcandam. 
How writ issued, directed and returnable. .
I. The writ of habeas corpus ad subjiciendum shall be granted forth­ 
with by any circuit, corporation or county court, or any judge of either
in vacation, to any person who shall apply for the same by petition,
showing by affidavits or other evidence, probable cause to believe that 
he is detained without lawful authority.
2. The writ shall be directed to the person in whose custody the pe­ 
titioner is detained, and made returnable as soon as may be before the
court or judge ordering the same, or any other of the said courts or
judges. 
Bond may be required of petiti.<tMr.
3. The court or judge granting the writ may previously require bond, 
with surety, in a reasonable penalty, payable to the person to whom the
writ is directed, with condition that the petitioner will not escape by
the way, and for the payment of such costs and charges as may be 
awarded against him. It shall be filed with the other proceedings on 
the writ, and may be sued on for the benefit of any person injured by
the breach of its condition. 
How writ served; penalty for disobeying it.
4. The writ shall be served on the person to whom it is directed, or 
in his absence from the place where the petitioner is confined, on the
person having the immediate custody of him. 
5. If any person on whom such writ is served shall, in disobedience
to such writ, fail to bring the body of the petitioner, with a return of 
the cause of his detention, before a court or judge before whom the 
writ is returnable, for three days after such service, or when he has to
bring the prisoner more than twenty miles, for so many more days as 
is equal to one day for every twenty miles of such further distance, he
shall forfeit to the petitioner three hundred dollars. 
Power of tke court or judge trying the writ.
6. The court or judge before whom the petitioner is brought, after 
hearing the matter, both upon the return and any other evidence, shall
either discharge or remand him, or admit him to bail, as may be proper,
and adjudge the costs of the proceeding, including the charge for trans· 
porting the prisoner, to be paid as shall seem to be right. 
lV hen affidavits may be read; facts proved may be made part of the record.
7. At the discretion of the court or judge, the affidavits of witnesses, 
taken by eit.her party, on reasonable notice to the other, may be read
as evidence. 
8. All the material facts proved shall, when it is required by either
party, be made a part of the proceedings, which, when they are had in 
vacation, shall be signed by the judges and certified to the clerk of the
circuit, corporation, or county court of the county or corporation in
which the judgment is rendered, and be entered by him among the 
records of the court. 
Judge has power of a court; force and effect of judgment.
9. The judge issuing any such writ in vacation, or the judge before 
whom it is tried, shall have the same power to enforce obedience to the
writ, to compel the attendance of witnesses, or to punish contempts of
his authority, as a court has; and his judgment on the trial of the writ,
when entered of record as aforesaid, shall be considered and be enforced
as if i.t were a judgment of the court, among whose records it is entered. 
10. Any such judgment entered of record shall be conclusive, unless
the same be reversed, except that the petitioner shall not be precluded
from bringing the same matter in question in an action for fal.se im­ 
prisonment.
How and when court q.f appeals summoned to try appeal from, such judgment. 
11. If, <luring the recess of the court of appeals, the governor or the
president of the court should think the immediate revision of any such 
judgment to be proper, he may summon the court for that purpose, to
meet on any day to be fixed by him. 
12. When the prisoner is remanded, the execution of the judgment
shall not be suspended by the writ of error, or suspended for the pur­
pose of applying for one; but where he is ordered to be discharged,
and the execution of the judgment is suspended for the purpose of
applying for a writ of error, the court or judge making such suspend­
ing order, may, in their discretion, admit the prisoner to bail until the
expiration of the time allowed for applying for the writ of error, or, in
case. the writ of error be allowed, until the decision of the court of
appeals thereon is duly certified. 
'JV rit de homine replefiando abolished. 
13. The writ de homine replegiando is abolished. 
Writs of habeas corpt~ ad testificandum, 
14. Writs of habeas corpus ad testificandum may be granted by any
circuit, corporation, or county court, or any judge thereof in vacation,
in the same manner and under the same conditions and provisions ss
are prescribed by this chapter, a.s to granting the writ of habeas corpus
ad subjiciendum, so far as the same are applicable. 
1. For each of the following counties and districts there shall be one
t 
. J
coun Y JU< ge: 
First, Accomack; second, Albemarle; third, Alleghany and Craig;
fourth, Amelia; fifth, Amherst; sixth, Appomattox; seventh, Augusta;
eighth, Bath and Highland; ninth, Bedford; tenth, Botetourt; elev- 
enth, Bland and Giles; twelfth, Brunswick; thirteenth, Buckingham:
fourteenth, Campbell; fifteenth, Caroline; sixteenth, Carroll; seven­ 
teenth, Charlotte; eighteenth, Chesterfield; nineteenth, Culpeper:
twentieth, Cumberland and Powhatan; twenty-first, Dinwiddie; twenty­
second, Elizabeth City and Warwick; twenty-third, Middlesex and
Mathews; twenty-fourth, Fairfax and Alexandria county; twenty-fifth,
Fauquier; twenty-sixth, Floyd; twenty-seventh, Fluvanna.; twenty­
eighth, Franklin; twenty-ninth, Frederick; thirtieth, Gloucester;
thirty-first, Goochland; thirty-second, Grayson; thirty-third, Greens­
ville and Sussex; thirty-fourth, Halifax; thirty-fifth, Hanover; thirty­
sixth, Henrico; thirty-seventh, Henry; thirty-eighth, Isle of Wight;
thirty-ninth, James City, York, and city of Williamsburg; fortieth, 
King George and Stafford; forty-first, King & Queen and King Wil­
liam; forty-second, Lee; forty-third, Louisa; forty-fourth, Loudoun;
forty-fifth, Lunenburg; forty-sixth, Madison and Greene; forty-seventh,
Mecklenburg; forty-eighth, Montgomery; forty-ninth, N ansemond;
fiftieth, Nelson; fifty-first, New Kent and Charles City; fifty-second,
Norfolk county; fifty-third , Northampton; fifty-fourth, Northumber­
land and Lancaster; fifty-fifth, Nottoway; fifty-sixth, Orange; fifty. 
seventh, Page; fifty-eighth, Patrick; fifty-ninth, Pittsylvania; sixtieth,
Prince Edward; sixty-first, Prince George and Surry; sixty-second,
Princess Anne; sixty-third, Prince William; sixty-fourth, Rappahan­
nock; sixty-fifth, Roanoke; sixty-sixth, Rockbridge; sixty-seventh,
Rockingham; sixty-eighth, Russell; sixty-ninth, Scott; seventieth,
Shenandoah; seventy-first, Smyth; seventy-second, Southampton;
seventy-third, Spotsylvania; seventy-fourth, Tazewell; seventy-fifth,
Warren and Clarke; seventy-sixth, W a.shi~gt-On; seventy-seventh,
Westmoreland and Richmond; seventy-eighth, Wise and Buchanan;
seventy-ninth, Wythe and Pulaski; eightieth, Essex. 
County courts, and their judges; who and how elected.
2. For every county there shall be a. court, called the county court, 
38,U, which shall be held by a judge learned in the law of the state, and be 
known as the county court judge, who shall be chosen by the general
assembly in the same manner as judges of the qireuit courts, 
Terms of county courts.
3. There shall he held in each county of the commonwealth monthly, 
f . . ·
a term o the county court, to be held at the times prescribed by law, 
and with the jurisdiction hereinafter provided. The court may, from
time to time, change the day for the commencement of the terms 
thereof, and may designate four or more terms of such court for the
trial of civil cases in which juries are required, and the same terms
may be designated for the trial of both civil ind criminal cases; and
thereafter, until otherwise ordered, all cases cognizable in such court
in which juries are required, except criminal cases and cases of forci­
ble entry and unlawful detainer, shall be tried only at such terms as
are so designated, the clerk of such court, within thirty days after a.ny
change has been made in the day for the commencement of the terms
thereof, shall send a copy of the order making it to the clerk of the
house of delegates, 
• 
4. The county courts may grant letters of administration, admit will ...
b
t 
. di I . . I h 11 l
to pro a e, appomt guar rans, curators, anr committees, ant s a rave 
jurisdiction to hear and determine all motions and other matters made
specially cognizable therein by any statute. t 
5. The county court shall likewise have jurisdiction or all present- 
ments, infonpations, and indictments for misdemeanors.
6. The county court shall· execute and enforce, by proper process, 
and in the manner provided by law, every judgment, decree, or order
heretofore entered therein, and shall supervise, correct, and enforce,
in like manner, any rule taken, or order, entry or endorsement made
by the clerk of said court. 
Removal of causes from the coun(I/ courts to the circuit courts; uiha! to Le done
with papers, Jfc.; wlw pays costs. 
7. tAU causes' at law and in chancery pending in the county court on
the day this act takes effect, of which said court has no jurisdiction under 
this act, shall be removed to the circuit court for such county ; and the
clerk of the county court is hereby directed to deliver to the clerk of
the circuit court for such county, the original papers of all such causes
a.t law and in chancery so removed, and, when either party to the suit
requires it, copies of all rules and orders made in such causes, and not
found in the original papers, and a statement of the costs incurred by
each party therein; and he shall enter on the record book of the county 
court the disposition made of such causes; and the clerk of the circuit
court is hereby directed to receive and file in the office of his said court
the papers so removed, and the said causes shall stand in all respects 
as they stood in the county court, and like proceedings shall be had
and process issued as if the said causes had been originally commenced
in the circuit court. The cost of such removal shall be borne equally
by both parties to the suit.] 
~. When an indictment is found against a person for a felony in the
county court, if the accused is in custody, or if he appear according to 
his recognizance, he shall be arraigned in said county court, and shall
be remanded for trial to the circuit court for such county, and all ma­
terial witnesses, desired for the prosecution or the defence, shall be
recognized for their appearance at such trial. If the accused is not in 
custody, or fails to appear according to his recognizance, the judge of
the court shall issue a warrant to any sheriff sergeant or constable,
commanding him to arrest such party, and carry him before a justice
of the county in which he ought to· be tried, and summon the wit­
nesses for the prosecution to appear and testify before the justice. The
justice before whom such warrant is returned, shall proceed in the case
as if the warrant had been issued by himself. 
9. When the justice considers that there is sufficient cause for charg­
ing the accused with the offence, he shall commit him for trial, or bail
him if it be a case in which the party is entitled to bail. The commit­
ment for trial, or recognizance for appearance, shall be to the next term
of the circuit court for such county ;t and the justice shall return to
the clerk of the court from which the warrant issued, a certificate
showing whether the accused was committed, or recognized for trial, or
was discharged. 
10. When a person is remanded by a county court, or is sent on for
trial by a justice, the clerk of the county court shall transmit to the
clerk of the circuit court in which he is to be tried, the indictment and
all recognizances and other papers connected with the case, and a
record of the proceedings had therein in the county court. Such
papers and record shall he used with the same effect in the circuit
court as they might. be in the county court if the county court. had
jurisdiction to try the offence. The clerk of the circuit court shall, M 
soon as may he, issue a" venire facias, directed to the proper officer of
the court, requiring him to summon jurors for such trial. 
11. If the accused has not been arraigned in the county court, if in
custody, or if he appear in the circuit court according to his recogni­
zancc, he shall, unless good cause he shown for a continuance, ~
arraigned and tried at the first term of the r-ourt to which he is re· 
manded or sent on for trial. 
Caveats, and other matters cognizaUe at jury courts. 
1 :.!. In a county court, cases of caveat, such motions as arc provided
d 
for by the sixth section of chapter one hundred and sixty-three, an 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
actions at. law, shall be cognizable only at tlie terms designated for the
trial of civil cases, in which juries are required. All other matters or
things authorized by law to be done by or in such court may be done
at any term thereof. 
Bonds and recognizances take» by courity courts and conservaiors of peace, good
for next term of circuit court; notice.to be given. 
13. All bonds and recognizances which may have been taken for the
appearance of any party or parties before the county court, to be tried
at any time subsequent to the first day of August, eighteen hundred
and seventy-three, in any cause for the trial of which said court may 
have no jurisdiction after that day, shall be taken and held to be for
the appearance of such party or parties before the next term thereafter
of the circuit court for such county, and the clerk of the county court
shall cause to be served on every party to such bond a notice that the
said cause will be removed to the next term of the circuit court, and a
summons to such party, unless he be a surety to such bond, to appear
at the next term thereafter of the circuit court for such county, in obe-
dience to the condition of such bond or recognizance. And it shall be
lawful for the county court and for the several conservators of the
peace within the commonwealth, and they are hereby directed that in
taking bonds and necognizance for the appearance of any party to be
tried nt any subsequent term of the county court, if such term will fall
after August first, eighteen hundred and seventy-three, then and in
that case the said bond or recognizance, if the same be in a case for
the trial of which the county court may not have jurisdiction after 
that day, shall be taken and acknowledged with the condition for the
appearance of such party to the next term thereafter of the circuit 
court of said county. 
Who to hold county court when judge fails to hold if.
14. If any judge of a county court be unable or fail to attend a. regu- 
lar term of his court, or be preven ted from sitting during the whole
term," or if, from death or other cause, there be no judge of such 
county, any other county judge may hold said court, either for the
whole term or any part thereof. The clerk of the court of the county
where a vacancy exists, shall certify such fact to the governor of the
state, who is hereby authorized to designate any county court judge to
hold the regular terms in said county until the vacancy is filled, and
for such service said judge shall receive the mileage prescribed by law,
and five dollars per day for the time in which he is actually engaged
in holding court, to be paid out of the state treasury by a warrant of
the auditor of public accounts upon the certificate of said judge. 
I,awyers to decide causes when judge ought not.
15. When a judge holding a circuit, corporation, or county court is 
. 
so situated as to render it improper, in his judgment, for him to decide
or preside at the trial of any civil cause pending therein, the parties
to such cause, plaintiff and defendant, may, with the consent of such
judge, entered of record in his said court, select a member of the bar
practising in said court, who shall proceed to try such cause as the
judge would were he sitting; and the judgment or decree rendered in
said cause shall be entered on the record of said court by the judge of
said court as the judgment thereof; and the person so selected to 
try or preside at the trial of said cause, shall have power to enforce
order, and compel obedience during the trial of such cause by him, as 
the judge of said court would have were he sitting. 
16. The judge of the county court shall be privileged (if a licensed
lawyer) to appear as attorney at law in any case not pending in his
court, or which cannot be carried into, or has not been taken from his 
court, on an· appeal." 
' 
lV here county judges may practice law. 
Judges of elections; luno appointed by county judges.
17. It shall be the duty of the county and corporation judges elected 
d
un er the provisions of this act, in the exercise of the duty imposed 
upon them by the eighth section of the eighth chapter, to appoint at
least one judge of election who can read and write, at each election 
precinct in his county, from each political party.f 
Salaries of county judges; hou: paid and ascertained. 
18. The county judge shall receive, after the first dn.y of January,
eighteen hundred and seventy-four, a salary of two hundred dollars,
and an additional compensation of twenty dollars for every thousand
inhabitants over ten thousand, to be determined by reference to the
census of eighteen hundred and seventy, and afterwards to the last
preceding official enumeration of the inhabitants of this state, and in
such computation the fraction of a thousand population shall not be
counted; which shall be a charge on the county, and be levied, col­
lected and accounted for in the same manner that other county ex­
penses are; and when a judge is judge of more than one county, each
county in the district shall pay in proportion to the inhabitants there­
of, and the mileage allowed by law shall be a charge equally upon the
counties of the district. Section five of chapter ninety-four of the
acts of assembly of eighteen hu~dred and sixty-nine and seventy, is
and shall be repealed after the first day of January, eighteen hundred
and seventy-four. 
19. The county court in term, or the judge thereof in vacation, shall
have jurisdiction of writs of mandamus in all matters or proceedings 
arising from or appertaining to the action of the board of supervisors
of the county, and the township boards of the counties for which such 
county courts are holden.* 
Corporation courts, and their judges.
20. The following towns and cities, having each more than five thou- 
d
. h bl h 11 l h . . d F d · k b 
san in a itants, s a eac 1 ave one city JU ge: re eric s urg,
Lynchburg, Norfolk, Petersburg, Portsmouth, Staunton, Alexandria, 
and Danville. 
Judqe« for city of Richmond.
21. The city of Richmond, having over thirty thousand inhabitants, 
shall have one city judge and one judge of probate and record. 
Richmond_ city h~tings court] its jurisdiction.
22. There shall be for the city of Richmond a hustings court, to be 
held by the city judge of said city, with like qualifications, and elected
in the same manner as judges of the circuit courts. 
23. The said hustings court shall, except as provided for the circuit
and chancery courts of said city, have exclusive original jurisdiction
of all presentments, informations, and indictments for offences com-
m.itlied within the jurisdiction aforesaid, including criminal cases now
therein pending. The said court shall have jurisdiction of all such 
ti . d h di h tof . . bl
mo ions, actions, an ot er procee mgs as were ere tore cogmza e 
by the hustings court of the city of Richmond held by the judge, and
said court held by the aldermen, as have not been transferred to other
tribunals by law, and shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit
court of said city of actions of unlawful entry and detainer. 
Its power aa to bail; injunctions, writs of t habeas corpus, quo warranto, man· 
damus, and prohibition. 
24. The said hustings court, and the judge thereof, shall have the
same power as a. circuit court or circuit judge, to admit to bail, award 
injunctions, writs of t habeas corpus, quo warranto, mandamus, and
prohibition. 
25. Appeals, writs of error, and writs of supersedea.s, from and to
judgments, decrees, and orders of the said hustings court, shall be taken
and allowed as if they were from or to those of the circuit court or a
circuit judge. 
Terms of the hustings court.
26. There shall be a term of the said hustings court for each month 
Who to hold court in the absence of judge.
27. During the absence of the judge of said hustings court, or the 
inability of said judge, from any cause, to hold a term of his court, or 
to sit in any particular case, or to discharge any duty required by law,
the said term may be held, or said cause may be tried, or the said duty
may be performed, by any circuit judge or by, the judge of the chan­
cery court of the city of Richmond: provided, however, that no extra
compensation shall be allowed therefor. 
Clerk of hustings· court; his fees and pay for public 'services.
28. There shall be a clerk of the said hustings court, who shall be 
entitled to receive the fees and emoluments now allowed by law to 
clerks-of the circuit courts, and shall be appointed and elected in the
mode prescribed by law for the election of clerks of circuit courts.
From and after the second day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy,
the said clerk shall receive for his services out of the treasury of the
city of Richmond, for services to the public of said city, such sum M 
thejudge of said court may allow, not exceeding the sum of eighteen
hundred dollars in one year. And the said clerk shall be allowed the
sum of one thousand dollars for public services rendered to the com­
monwealth, payable monthly, out of the public treasury out of any
money not otherwise appropriated. 
Powers and duties of Richmond lwstings court clerk . 
• 
m the year, except the month of August, commencmg on the first
Monday in the month, and continuing so long as the business before 
the court may require. 
· 29. The clerk of the hustings court of said cit.y shall take charge
and have the custody of all the public property, records, books, and
papers formerly appertaining and belonging to the hustings court of
magistrates of the city of Richmond and the hustings court of the city
of Richmond held by the judge thereof, except such property, record!', 
books, and papers as have, by law, been transferred to the chancery
court of the city of Richmond or to the circuit court of the city of
Richmond. The clerk of the present hustings court of said city shall
have all the powers and perform all the duties which heretofore de­
volved upon the clerk of the hustings courts formerly existing in the
city of Richmond, except such powers and duties M have been by law
transferred to the circuit and chancery courts aforesaid; and said clerk 
shall continue to discharge said duties and exercise such powers until
other provision be made by law. 
Sergeant of Richmond to be qfficer of court.
30. The sergeant of the city of Richmond shall be the officer of the 
. I h ti t 
sa1( us mgs cour . 
Grand jury for hustings court of Richmond, how and wlien summoned; what 
laws apply.
31. A grand jury for the hustings court of the city of Richmond 
shall be summoned by the sergeant of said city in the manner pre-
scribed by law, to attend the said court on the first Monday in Janu- 
a.ry, May, ,July and October in each year, and at such other terms and
on such other days as the judge of said court may direct, either in
term or vacation. Said grand jury shall be charged by the judge. 
32. All provisions of law concerning grand and petit juries applies-
bl 
. . h 11 1 id
e to circuit courts, s a a.pp y to sai courts. 
Prosecuting attorney for Richmond hustings court. 
33. The commonwealth's attorney for the circuit court of the city of
Richmond shall prosecute in all cases of felony and misdemeanor in
said hustings court. 
Corporation or liustings courts generally.* 
34. For each town or city of the state, containing a population of
five thousand, there shall be a court called a corporation court, to be 
held by a judge with like qualifications and elected in the same man-
ner as judges of the county court. 
Times for holding corporation courts. 
35. For every corporation in which the power of holding courts has
been or shall be vested by law, there shall be held monthly terms of 
the corporation court. t 
,T,ulgc may change day8 for courts; change to be certified by clerk to clerk of 
house of delegates; terms for criminal and civil cases. 
~{G. The judge of every such corporation court may, from time to 
. h 1 l " l f h h f 
time, c ange tie cay ior t re commencement o t e terms t ereo , or
any of them. The clerk of such court, within thirty days after such 
change, shall send a copy of the order making it, to the clerk of the
house of delegates, and if he fail to do so, shall forfeit fifty dollars. 
Tho judge of said court may also select the terms at which he will try
criminal cases, and he may designate four or more terms of such court
for the trial of civil· cases in which juries are required, and the same 
terms may be designated for the trial of both civil and criminal cases;
and thereafter, until otherwise ordered, all cases cognizable in such
court in which juries are required, except criminal cases and cases of
forcible entry and unlawful detainer, shall be tried only at such terms 
as are so designated. 
Causes in county court of Alexandria to be removed to corporation court. 
:n. All suits, motions, and other proceedings at law or in equity,
which are now pending in the county court of Alexandria, in which 
the parties thereto are residents of the city of Alexandria, or respect­
ing land situate and lying within the limits of said city, whether the
parties be residents or not, shall be removed to the corporation court
of the city of Alexandria for further proceedings therein in the latter
court; and all such suits, motions or proceedings respecting lands in 
said city which have been so removed, whether the parties are resi­ 
dents or not of said city, shall be proceeded in to judgment or decree
in said corporation court. 
Jurisdieuon of corporation courts. 
38. The several corporation courts of this state shall, within their 
. 1· . h h . . di . h . . d 
respective imits, ave t e same Juris iction as t e circuit courts, an
th . . d" . t 11 er ... _..J 
e same Juris iction as coun ·Y courts over a onences committed 
within their limits; (and also jurisdiction in a.11 other cases which were
cognizable by the former hustings courts of the respective cities and
towns, under the la.ws as they existed on the twenty-sixth of January,
eighteen hundred and seventy;) and such other jurisdiction as may
be conferred upon them by law: provided, that the provisions of this
section shall not apply to the courts of the city of Richmond.* 
Persons who have elected to be tried in the circuit courts, to be so tried. 
39. All persons who have heretofore elected to be tried in the cir­
cuit court shall be tried in said court, anything in this act to the con­
trary notwithstanding. · 
Corporation judges not able to hold courts, who to hold them. 
40. If any judge of a corporation court be unable or fail to attend a
regular term of his court, or be prevented from sitting during the
whole term,t any other judge of a. corporation· court may hold said
court, either for the whole term or any part thereof. 
Pay of corporation judges. 
41. The judges of the city and corporation courts shall receive the
following annual salaries, respectively: The judge of the hustings court 
of the city of Richmond, the sum of two thousand three hundred dol­
lars; the judge of the probate or chancery court of the city of Rich­ 
mond, the sum of two thousand three hundred dollars; the city judge
of Norfolk, the sum of two thousand dollars; the city judge of Peters­
burg, the sum of one thousand eight hundred dollars; the city judge
of Lynchburg, the sum of sixteen hundred dollars; the city judge of
Alexandria, the sum of fourteen hundred dollars; the city judge of
Portsmouth, the sum of thirteen hundred dollars; the city judges of
the corporations of Fredericksburg, Winchester, Staunton; and Dan­
ville, each the sum of seven hundred dollars : provided, that when the
same person shall be elected judge of a county and also a city or cor­
poration court therein, his aggregate salary shall not exceed the sum
of thirteen hundred dollars. The judges of the city and corporation
courts of this commonwealth shall be paid out of the treasury of their 
respective corporations." The council of the city of Richmond is 
hereby authorized and empowered to add to and increase the salaries and
compensation of the judges of the circuit court, of the chancery court,
and of the hustings court of the said city; and the council of the city
of Petersburg, and the council of the city of Norfolk, are hereby au-
thorized and empowered to add to and increase the salary and com-
pensation of the judges. of the hustings courts of said cities: provided,
that the said addition and increase shall be a. charge upon and be paid
out of the treasuries of the said cities, respectively: anJ provided fur- 
ther, that said increase shall not exceed one thousand dollars per
annum for any one of the judges of the courts of said cities, and that
the city councils of said cities shall have the power to reduce the
amount of addition whenever they may think proper. 
Corporation judges allowed to practice law in courts other titan their own.
42. It may be lawful for any judge of any corporation or hustings 
oourt in this state, whose salary does not exceed one thousand dollars
per annum, to practice law in any court of this commonwealth other
than their own courts. t 
County and corporation courts for James City and Williamsburg.
43. The courts of the city of Williamsburg and county of James 
City shall together constitute one court, and be called the court of the
county of James City and the city of Williamsburg, and such court
and the judge elected for the counties of James City and York, shall 
have and perform the same jurisdiction, powers; and duties which,
under the general laws now in force, are vested in the county courts of
the commonwealth, and said jurisdiction, powers, and duties shall be
co-extensive with the limits of the county of J ames City and the city
of Williamsburg; and the jurors necessary for the trial of criminal and
civil causes in said court hereby established shall be indiscriminately
summoned from the said county and city, in the mode provided by 
law. And there shall be elected by the qualified voters of said county
and city, who shall act for both county and city, one sheriff, one attor­
ney for the commonwealth, one clerk, one treasurer, and one superin­ 
tendent of the poor. 
Jurisdiction of lite corporation court of Winchester.
44. The corporation court of Winchester shall have jurisdiction only 
~ ' d di d d d ·11 . ifl t f 
ror provmg an recor mg ee s an wi s, granting certi ca es o pro-
bate and administration, and for granting licenses to sell wine, ardent 
spirits, malt liquors, or any mixture of any of them, within the limits
of the corporation, and for enforcing the ordinances which have been,
or may hereafter be lawfully passed by the common council of said
town, by judgments and executions for fines, or confinement and labor
for misdemeanor, under the same, and for correcting erroneous assess­
ments of lands and Jots and improvements thereon, in said' corporation, 
in the manner provided by law for the state; and the said court shall
not have jurisdiction in any other matter than is herein expressly pro­
vided for: provided, that all fiduciaries who have been or hereafter
may be appointed by the said court, or have qualified therein, and all
trustees in any deed of trust recorded in said court shall settle their
accounts before a commissioner appointed by said court: provided fur­
ther, that thl commissioner of the revenue for the town of Winchester
shall give bond and take the usual oath, as prescribed by law, before
said court. 
What causes removed to county court of Frederick county.
45. All causes and matters, except those provided for in the forego­ 
ing section, now pending in said corporation court, shall be and they
are hereby removed to the county court of Frederick county, and the
clerk of said county court shall transfer to the docket of his said court,
the causes and matters pending and undetermined in said corporation
court; and all papers and records in said causes and matters shall be
transferred to and remain in the custody of said county court. 
Provision for removal of suits, records and papers from h1atings court of Har-
· monhurg to the county court of &ckingham. 
46. All causes and matters now pending in the court of hustings for
the town of Harrisonburg shall be and they are hereby transferred to
the county court of Rockingham, and the clerk of said county court
shall transfer to the docket of his said court, the causes and matters
pending and undetermined in said court of hustings; and all papers
and records in said causes and matters shall be transferred to and re­
main in the custody of the clerk of said county court. 
Duty of clerk of county co-urt in pre.serving papers and recording deeds, J:,.
47. The clerk of said county court shall receive, take charge of and 
preserve as part of the records of said county, all papers, causes, re­
cords, judgments, executions, and all papers and records of every
kind, which, by the law heretofore existing, were in said court of hust­
ings, either as a record or as papers in a cause, or in any other form, 
and which the clerk of said court of hustings was, under the law, re·
quired to take care of and preserve. 
48. Every deed admitted to record in the clerk's office of said 'court, 
and the recordation thereof; every judgment and decree rendered in
said court, and the. docketing thereof; every execution issued from
said clerk's office, and every proceeding and record of whatever de- 
scription had in said court or in said office, shall be of the same force,
virtue and effect as if said deed had been admitted to record in the
clerk's office of the county court of Rockingham, or if said judgment
or decree had been rendered in said county court, and the docketing
thereof had been in the clerk's office of said court, or if said proceed-
ing or record, of whatever description, had been had in the said county
court, or in the clerk's office thereof, at the same date. And every
deed for property within the jurisdiction of said court of hustings,
which property, under the then existing charter, should have been
recorded in the clerk's office of said court, but which was recorded in
the clerk's office of said county, together with the recorda.tion thereof;
and every judgment or decree rendered in said county court, in causes
arising within the jurisdiction of said court of hustings, and the dock-
eting thereof; and every other proceeding, of whatever description,
had in said county court, or in the clerk's office thereof, are hereby
declared as valid and to be of the same force, virtue and effect as if
the said court of hustings and the clerk's office thereof had never had
any existence, and the said recordation, and the said judgment or de-
cree and the docketing thereof, and the said proceedings had then
been had in the said county court and in said clerk's office. But no-
thing contained in this section shall in any way affect or impair rights
heretofore acquired. 
Appellate cases; lww proceeded with and determined.
49. If any cause formerly or now pending in said court of hustings 
shall have been or shall hereafter be taken to an appellate court, then
the affirmance of the judgment or decree rendered in any such cause
shall be certified to the clerk of said county court, and upon reversal
of any such judgment or decree, the cause shall be remanded (if such
order be necessary) to the said county court for further proceedings. 
County and corporation courts may appoint criers.
50. The county or corporation court of any county or corporation, 
where there is no person acting in a county as sheriff or deputy sheriff
thereof, or in a corporation as sergeant or deputy sergeant thereof, or 
in any case where there is no officer to execute the processes or orders
of said court, may appoint a crier for said county or corporation, as
prescribed in the twenty-sixth section of the one hundred and fifty.
fifth chapter. 
~ 
1. For the city of Williamsburg and county of James City, and for
h · dditi h fll . d f h 
every ot er county m a ition to t e county o enrrco, an ror eac
of the cities of Norfolk, Petersburg, and Lynchburg, there shall con­
tinue to be established a circuit court, which shall be called the circuit
court of such county or city, or of such city and county, as the case 
may he.
2. The circuit court shall have the same jurisdiction as is provided 
by law on the day before this act takes effect, and shall, in addition,
have exclusive original jurisdiction for the trial of indictments for 
felonies,t and for cases of contested electionst which may be cogniza- 
ble by any court.* Jurisdicti~n of writs of mandamus, prohibition,
and certiorari ( except such a.a may be issued from the court of appeals) 
shall be in the circuit court of the county or corporation in which the
record or proceeding is to which the writ relates. Any such writ may
be awarded either by the circuit court or (in vacation) by the judge
thereof.f 
Circuit court of Portsmouth:
3. There shall be a separate circuit court of common law and chan- 
cery jurisdiction in and for the city of Portsmouth, which shall be held
at the courthouse or hall used as such in said city, by the judge of the 
first judicial circuit. The said circuit court shall have the same power
and jurisdiction, in all respects, within the limits of said city that the
several circuit courts within this commonwealth have within their re-
spective counties and corporations; and the sergeant for the said city,
and his deputies, shall attend the said court, do and perform the duties,
have and exercise the powers, receive the compensation, and be liable 
to the penalties of a sheriff and his deputies in relation to the circuit
court of his county. A clerk for said court shall be elected, as herein- 
before prescribed, in like manner and for the same time as the clerk
of the hustings court of said city, and shall enter into bond with se-
curity in the sum of ten thousand dollars. He shall perform similai:
duties, receive the same compensation, and be liable to the same penal-
ties as other clerks of circuit courts in the commonwealth, and be gov-
erned by the same general laws. The jail of the said city shall be used
as the jail of said circuit court, and the keeper of said jail shall act as 
jailer of said court, and shall attend the sessions, be amenable to the
authority, and obedient to the lawful orders of said court, and shall
take into his custody all persons committed by order of said court, or
by any process issuing therefrom, and all persons committed by what-
ever lawful authority for trial in said court, and shall.perform all other
duties and be allowed the same compensation that is prescribed and
allowed by law to the jailers attending the respective circuit courts of 
this commonwealth. In all criminal prosecutions, where the accused
shall have been ordered for further trial by the hustings court of the
city of Portsmouth, he, she, or they shall be tried in the circuit court
for said city; and all recognizances of such accused person or persons,
and of his, her, or their sureties or bail, and of any witness or witnesses,
binding him or them to appear at the circuit court for Norfolk county,
shall be binding and obligatory for the appearance of such person or
persons at the circuit court for the city of Portsmouth, at the next
term thereof; but in case any person or persons shall make his, her, or
their appearance in the circuit court for the county of Norfolk, in dis-
charge of any such recognizance, it shall be the duty of the said court
to require a new recognizance to be entered into, in open court, for 
bis or her appearance at the next term of the circuit court for said
city of Portsmouth; and if any such person shall fail to give such 
recognizance, he or she shall be committed by the sheriff of Norfolk
county to the jail of the said city until such next court; and all sum­
monses or other process in any such case shall be held returnable to 
the circuit court for the said city of Portsmouth. 
Oircuit court of city of Richmond; criminal proceedings against convict.!; and
proceedings to en/ore, payment.of money to state; its other jurisdiction. 
4. There shall De, for the city of Richmond, a circuit court, to be
held by·the judge of •he seventh circuit. The said court shall have
exclusive original jurisdiction of all causes, motions, matters and 
things, which are cognizable by law in other circuit courts of the com­
monwealth, whether now pending or hereafter brought therein: ex­
cept, that said court shall have no jurisdiction of any suit or proceed­
ing in chancery, or of any criminal prosecution, unless by law such
jurisdiction be specially given. It shall have jurisdiction of all criminal
proceedings against convicts in the penitentiary, and of all proceedings 
to enforce payment of money to the commonwealth. There shall be
brought and prosecuted in said circuit court, all suits in which it may 
be necessary or proper to make any of the following public officers
'a party defendant, 88 representing the commonwealth, to-wit: the
governor, attorney-general, treasurer, register of the land office, ·or
either auditor; or, in which it may be necess&ry or proper to make any
of the following public corporations parties defendant, to-wit: the
board of education, board of publio works, or any other public corpo­
ration, composed of officers of government, of the funds and property
of which the commonwealth is sole owner, or in which it shall be at­
tempted to enjoin or otherwise suspend or affect any judgment or de­
cree on behalf of. the commonwealth, or any execution issued on such
judgment or decree. 
O Aanury court for tk city of Richmond; its· juri,diction.
5. There shall be, for the city of Richmond, a court of probate and 
record, to be called the chancery court of the city of Richmond, to be 
held by a judge, with like qualifications, and elected in the same man·
ner, and for the same term, 88 judges of the circuit courts. 
6. The chancery court of the city of Richmond, shall exercise, ex­
clusively, all jurisdiction now vested in circuit or corporation courts,
concerning the probate and recordation of wills, the appointments,
qualifications and removal of fiduciaries, and the settlement of their
accounts; the docketing of judgments, the recordation, in the manner
prescribed by law, of deeds and other papers required by law to be re­
corded; and shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all suits and proceed­
ings in chancery cognizable by law in any circuit court of the common·
wealth. And the said court, and the judge thereof, respectively, shall
have the same jurisdiction and powers, and perform the same duties,
which, by the provisions of chapter one hundred and seventy-five, are
vested in and devolved upon the circuit courts of the state, and she 
judges thereof, respectively. 
7. So soon as the clerk of the chancery court of the city of Rich-
mond shall have qualified, all chancery records and papers in the 
clerk's office of the circuit court of the city of Richmond, and in the
clerk's office of the hustings court of the city of Richmond, and all
papers, books and records pertaining to the probate and reoordation
of wills, the appointment, qualifioa.tion and removal of fiduciaries, the
recordation of deeds and other papers required by law to be recorded, 
and the judgment docket shall be removed to and kept in the office
of the clerk of the chancery court of the city of Richmond ; and all
books, papers and records in the hustings court of the city of Rich-
mond, pertaining to the common law side of said court, shall be re--
moved to the clerk's office of the circuit court of the city of Rich-
mond, so far as such removal can be made without mutilating the re-
cord of said hustings court in the jurisdiction conferred on it by this 
act. And when the record in any pending case cannot be so removed;
a copy thereof shall be certified to the said circuit court by the said
hustings court, which shall ba.ve in said circuit court the same force and,
effect as if the original record had been so removed. 
Appeals, wril8 of error and aupersedea& to and from these courts,
8. Appeals, writs of error and writs of supersedeas from and to 
judgments, decrees and orders of the said chancery court of the city of
Richmond, shall be ta.ken and allowed as if they were from or to those
of the circuit court or a circuit judge. 
Clerks of circuit and chancery courts; how elecled; their fees.
9. There shall be a. clerk of the circuit court and a clerk of the-pro- 
•ate court, who shall be entitled to receive the fees and emoluments
now allowed by law to clerks of the circuit courts, and shall be ap­
pointed and elected in the mode prescribed by law for the election of
clerks of circuit courts. 
What ojficer to be officer for circuit and chp.ncery courts,
10. The sheriff of the city of Richmond shall be the officer of the 
circuit court and also of the chancery court. 
Terma of these courts ; cliancery c<>urt to be always open for probate and record.
11. The circuit court of the city of Richmond, and the chancery 
court of the city of Richmond, shall each hold four terms in each year,
the circuit court as provided in the fifteenth section of this chapter, 
and the chancery court commencing on the first' Monday in January,
April, June and October, and said terms shall be continued so long as
the business before said courts respectively may require: provided,
that the first term of the chancery court shall commence on the
second Monday after this act takes effect. But the said chancery
court shall be always open as a court of probate and record, and the
clerk thereof shall at all times exercise such powers and perform such 
duties as to docketing judgments, and recording deeds and other
papers, as have been heretofore exercised and performed by the clerk
of the hustings court of the city of Richmond. 
Power to enforce judgments and decrees and to try removed causes. 
12. The several courts to which the records of judgments and de­
crees heretofore rendered may be removed shall have as full power to
enforce said judgments and decrees as, under the laws now in force,
the court which rendered the judgment or decree had: and the court
to which the papers and records in any pending cause may be removed
under the provisions of this act, shall proceed to try and determine
said cause as though the same had been originally brought there.* 
Circuit court of Henrico established; iu juri.sdiction, powers and duties; tran.r­ 
f er of suits from previou« court. 
13. A circuit court, to be called the "circuit court of the county of
Henrico," shall be established for that part of said county which is 
without the corporate limits of the city of Richmond; and the said
circuit court, and the judge thereof respectively, in all causes and
matters, civil and criminal, which may hereafter arise or be brought
or prosecuted, shall have and perform as to 'and for that part of said
county, jurisdiction, powers and duties like the jurisdiction, powers
and duties which other circuit courts and the judges thereof have or
may perform in and for the counties, cities or towns for which the
said circuit courts respectively may be held: All causes and matters
which shall be depending and undetermined in the circuit court of
law for the county of Henrico on the day before this act takes effect,
shall be proceeded in, tried and determined in the said circuit court
of the county of Henrico, which, as to said causes and matters, shall
succeed to and have the jurisdiction, powers and duties which under
the laws in force when the constitution was adopted would have been
had or should have been performed by the said circuit court of law. 
Number qf terms of court prescribed. 
14. In every year there shall be three regular terms of the circuit
court in each county of this state; and special terms may be held as
now provided by law. 
Times for lwlding circuit courts to be fixed by judges. 
15. It shall be lawful for the circuit court judges of this common­
wealth, until the times for holding the terms of their respective courts
shall be prescribed by law, to fix the time for holding such terms; and.
it shall be the duty of said judges to file with the clerk of the house
of delegates information of the times so fixed, who shall cause notice 
thereof to be given by publication in the political newspapers pub­
lished in the city of Richmond twice a week for one month.* 
Transfer of causes to circuit co11rt of James Oit!J and city nf Willim,~iu,:q. 
16. That all causes and matters now pending in the circuit court for Id., 
the county of James City, and all causes and matters now pen<ling in
the circuit court for the city of Williamsburg, and all causes and mat-
ters which were pending in the old circuit court for the city of Wil­
liamsburg and county of James City, at the time of the passage of the
act approved July eleventh, eighteen hundred and seventy, prescribing
the times for the holding of the terms of the circuit courts of the state,
shall be transferred to the circuit court for the cousrty of J ames City
and city of Williamsburg, and shall be docketed, and heard and deter·
mined in the last mentioned court. 
Duration of terms of circuit co~rt of N<Jrfolk cil!J; requlationsfor recess of court,
17. It shall be lawful for the circuit court of the city of Norfolk, to 
adjourn over, annually, on or before the twenty-eighth day of Novem-
her, and to take a recess thenceforth until the tenth day of January
next ensuing; to resume its sessions on the last named day, and con-
tinue to hold the same until the tenth day of February next ensuing,
and no longer. In any cause upon the docket of said court, standing
upon an office judgment at the time the court so adjourns over and
takes the recess aforesaid, execution may issue and be levied, and the
cause be otherwise proceeded with, as if the court had adjourned to 
the next regular spring term; and any person or persons convicted in
said court of any criminal offence, may be sentenced by said court prior
to taking the recess aforesaid, and the sentence be-carried into execu-
tion as if the court had then acljourned to the next regular spring term
thereof. If, from any cause, the said court should not resume its ses-
sions on the tenth day of January aforesaid, it may nevertheless be
opened and held in accordance with the provisions of the fourteenth
sectiin of chapter one hundred and fifty-seven. Nothing in this act
shall operate to cause any discontinuance of, or in any way invalidate,
any process issued, or any recognizance taken, or notice given, return-
able to the present or any future fall term of said court; but every
such process, recognizance or notice, shall be construed and held, and
shall avail, as if the said court- had been regularly adjourned, from day
to day, during the period of the recess aforesaid; nor shall any allow·
ance be made to any officer of the court. for attending any such ad·
journed session; but witnesses shall not be required to attend, and 
shall not be entitled to demand or receive compensation for attendance
during said period or recess. Before the said court shall resume its
sessions on the tenth day of January, as aforesaid, the clerk shall place
upon the dockets of said court, to be tried or disposed of for the terms,
all such cases mentioned in the first and second sections of chapter one 
hundred and seventy-three, as should be placed upon said dockets, if
the terms thus resumed were regular terms, commencing on the said
tenth day of ,January, as aforesaid. 
Special terms, how appointed and held. 
18. If any term of a. circuit court is to end, or has ended, without
dispatching all its business, or if there he a failure to hold a.ny term,
the judge of such circuit, or if he fail to do so, or have died, any other
judge of a. circuit* court shall, by an order entered in such court, or
by a warrant directed to the clerk, appoint a special term therefor, and
prescribe in such order or warrant whether a grand jury or any venire
is to be- summoned to attend the said term. The clerk shall inform
the attorney for the commonwealth and the sheriff or sergeant of such
appointment, post a copy of the order or warrant at the door at the
courthouse, and issue all proper process retumable to such special
term; and the sheriff or sergeant shall execute such process, and sum­
mon a grand jury, if by such order or wa.rra.nt the same be prescribed.
And if any term of a circuit court, when proceeding in the trial of any
case, civil or criminal, is to end before the termination of such case, it 
may be lawful for the court to continue the said trial until the conclu­
sion thereof. t · 
19. Whenever any judge of a circuit court shall have appointed a
special term of any circuit court, by adjournment or warrant in the 
manner directed by the preceding section, and he shall afterwards as­
certain that he cannot hold the said special term on the day appointed 
for it, he may, by warrant under his hand, directed to the clerk of the
court, adjourn it to such other day as he may deem proper. Such war­
rant. shall be transmitted by the judge to the clerk, who shall immedi­
ately enter the said warrant in the order book of the court, and as to
the said special term thereafter to be held under the said continuance,
proceed in all other respects in the manner directed by the section
aforesaid. 
Special term for prisoners confined in jails. 
20. Whenever the situation of a prisoner confined in jail for trial in
a circuit court makes it proper that his case should be disposed of be­ 
fore the next regular term thereof, the judge of such court may appoint
a special term to be holden for the trial of the case, in the same man­
ner as if the same had stood for trial a.t the. next preceding term and
the court had adjourned without disposing thereof. 
WIUit case$ may be tried at special term; when and by whom held. 
21. At any such special term, any civil cause may be tried which
f 
could law ully have been, but was not tried at the last preceding term
that was or should have been held; and any motion cognizable by such 
court may be heard and determined, whether it was· pending at the 
• 
preceding term or not; and any criminal cause may be tried a.t such
special term 88 if it were a. regular term, and although at the regular ~J~. 
term next preceding, the same may have been continued: and any e, 
cause or matter of controversy in chancery then ready for hearing,
may be heard and determined, with the consent of the parties to such
cause or controversy, although it could not lawfully have been heard
at the next preceding term that was or should have been held. Every
suoh special term may be held by the judge of the circuit, or if he be
dead or absent,* by any "other circuit judge who may be present; and
it may be held, part of its session by one judge, and part of it by
another: and such special terms may be adjourned from time to time 
during the intervals between the regular terms, as to the judge may
seem necessary for the dispatch of the business of ~the court. 
22. Any judge of one circuit, sitting in another, under either of the
three preceding sections, shall, in addition to his annual salary, receive 
ten dollars per day for each day of such session, and mileage for travel. 
Residence of judge, and power of exehanging cireuiu.
23. Each circuit judge, during his continuance in office, shall reside 
in the circuit of which he is Judge.
24. Any two circuit judges may at any time make an exchange with 
each other of their respective circuits for a period not longer than one
year, by an agreement recorded in the court in which .eaoh of them 
shall first sit under such exchange; and without a formal exchange of~
circuits, if any judge of a circuit court fail to attend a regular term of 
his court, or be prevented from sitting during the whole term, or be
so situated in respect to any cause pending in said court as in his
opinion to make it improper for him to try it, any other circuit judge 
may hold said court either for the whole term or any pa.rt thereof. 
Power given to practicing lawyers to decide causes and preside at thei.r trial in
certain cases. 
25. When a judge holding a circuit, corporation or county court is 
so situated as to render it improper, in his judgment, for him to de-
cide or preside at the trial of any civil cause pending therein, the
parties to such cause, plaintiff and defendant, may, with the consent
of such judge, entered of record in his said court, select a member of 
the bar practicing in said court, who shall proceed to try such cause
as the judge would were he sitting; a.nd the judgment or decree ren-
dered in said cause shall be entered on the record of said court by the 
judge of said court as the judgment thereof; and the person so se·
lected to try or preside a.t the trial of said cause, shall have power to 
enforce order and compel obedience during the trial of such cause by
him, as the judge of said court would have were he sitting.t 
t} Co~, ~01!' constituted; its appellate 
Su. 
a. Juriediction.
, } Write of mandamus, prohibition, babeaa 
corpw,, and other appeu.la; writ.a of
• error and aupenedeu. 
6• 
26. The circuit, county, or corporation court, of any county or corpo- 
• h h . . h ·1r d 
ration w ere t ere is no person acting in a county as s en or eputy
h 'ff h f . . d 
s eri t ereo , or m a corporation as sergeant or eputy sergeant
thereof, or in any case where there is no officer to execute the processes 
or orders of said court, may appoint a crier for said court, who shall
perform all the duties pertaining to the office of sheriff or sergeant 
therein, except such as relate to the collection of taxes, levies, militia
fines and officers' fees; and though a person be acting in any county as
sheriff or deputy sheriff, or in any corporation as sergeant or deputy
sergeant, yet, when it is unfit, from any cause, for the sheriff or ser­
geant, or their deputies, to serve any process, or to summon a jury, the
court in which the case is pending may appoint some other person to
perform the same. It shall be the duty of such court to take from any 
person so appointed, or from any person who has been appointed, and
is still acting crier, a bond, conditioned for the faithful performance of
his duties, in such penalty as it may deem sufficient; and the same pro­
ceedings may be had thereon as upon a bond given by a sheriff. 
6. Its eemiona, and length of terms.
7. Bwdneu to be done at Richmond.
8. Bwdneas to be done at Wytheville. 
9. Bwdnem to be done at Staunton.
10. What eauaea to be beard at Winchester; 
Court, how constituted; its appellate jurisdiction.
1. The supreme court of appeals shall consist of the five judges 
thereof now in commission, and as vacancies occur they shall be tilled.
The said judges shall appoint one of their number president of the 
court . 
clerk at Staunton to take charge of
caaee at Wincheeter, a.nd attend court 
there. 
CHAPTER CL VI. 
OF THE COURT OF APPEALS.* 
11. Powers and dutiee of court at each place
of meetingh· bonds of clerks, where 
taken ; appe ate juriadiction in crimi­
nal caaee; how such C88e8 transferred 
and determined.
12. Tmnafer of caull68 from one place to 
another; may be determined without
~er; decuiion, how certi.11.ed; its 
6«.
18. Where casee of prolu"bition and mand&· 
mua to be tried. 
14. } When majority of court cannot Bit, bow 
to caaea dispoled of; what clerk to attend
17. and act; bow deciliona certi1led.
18. Tipstaff and crier; their duties and pay. 
19. Law library. 
20 
I Special court of appeals, bow oonati·
• tuted; its terma; judgee appointed, 
21. unable to Bit, how plaoee eupplied. 
22. Who to be clerk of special oourt ; crier 
13. and tipetaff. 
24. Record of epecia,! court, where to be filed. 
26. Compenaation of judgee. 
26. Laws applicable to court; records, how 
i
rinted.
27, A ournment of court; reporta of itll 
eciaiona. 
28. How long act to continue in force. t 
20. Removal of cauaea from epecla1 oourt o
appeala to court of appeala. 
2. In the absence of the president, the eldest judge in eommission
present shall be the presiding judge; but if no one of the judges present
be older in commission than the rest, then the judges present shall ap-
point any one of their number to preside. 
3. The supreme court of appeals, and the judges thereof, shall re-
. l d d h 11 h 11 t . ' di ' hi h 
spective y succee to an ave a t e appe a e Juris iction w re , 
under the laws in force at or since the adoption of the constitution of
eighteen hundred and fifty-one, could have been exercised by the gen-
eral court, or the judges thereof. 
Writs of mandamus, prohibition, habeas corpus, and other appeals; writs of 
error and supersedeas. 
4. The said supreme court, besides having jurisdiction of all such
matters as are now pending therein, shall have jurisdiction to issue
writs of mandamus and prohibition to the circuit and corporation
courts, and to the hustings court and the chancery court of the city of
Richmond, and in all other cases in which it may be necessary to pre·
vent a. failure of justice, in which a. mandamus may issue according to
the principles of the common law. The practice and proceedings upon
such writs shall be governed and regulated, in all cases, by the princi-
ples and practice now prevailing in respect to writs of mandamus and 
prohibition, respectively.
5. The said supreme court shall have jurisdiction in cases of habeas 
corpus, and of such appeals, writs of error and supersedeas, as may be
legally docketed in or transferred to the said court. - 
Its sessiotu, and l,igth of terms. 
6. The said court shall hold a session annually, at Wytheville, in the
county of Wythe, and at Staunton, in the county of Augusta, to com- 
mence at such time as the court may, from time to time direct, and to 
continue at least sixty days, if the business be not sooner dispatched ;
and another in the city of Richmond, to commence at such time, and 
to be divided into such terms, as the court has directed, or may, from
time to time direct, and to continue at least one hundred and sixty
days, unless the business be sooner dispatched. 
Businus to he done at Richmond. 
7. The said court, at its session at Richmond, shall hear and deter­
mine all appeals, writs of error, or supersedeas, pending there when
this act takes effect, or which may be brought to the court of appeals,
from or to decrees, judgments, sentences or orders, of any court held
on the eastern side of the Blue Ridge, except the counties of Patrick,
Albemarle, Amherst and Nelson. 
Bwinus to be done at Wytheville. 
8. The court, at its session at Wytheville, in the county of Wythe,
shall hear and determine all appeals, writs of error, or supersedeas,
which may be brought to the court of appeals, from or to decrees, judg­
ments, sentences, or orders of courts, from the following counties:
Craig, Roanoke, Montgomery, Floyd, Patrick, Carroll, Pulaski, Giles,
Bland, Wythe, Grayson, Smyth, Tazewell, Washington, Russell, Bu­
chanan, Wise, Scott, and Lee. 
Busines.t to be done at Staunt<>n. 
9. The court, at its session at"Staunton, in the county of Augusta,
shall hear a•d determine all appeals, writs of error, or supersect.s,
which may be brought to the court of appeals, from o~ to decrees.judg­
ments, sentences, or orders of court, from the residue of the counties
west of the Blue Ridge, and also from the counties of Albemarle, Am·
herst-and Nelson. 
What cause.s to be heard at Winchester; clerk at Staunton to take charge of
cases at Winche,ter and attend court there. 
10. Annually, before the court of appeals commences its session at
Richmond, Wytheville and Staunton, respectively, the clerk at each
place shall make out a docket of the ca.uses then ready for hearing.
Those a.teach place shall be numbered by figures, and shall be dock­
eted in the order in which the causes were matured, and be heard in
the same order, except that upon the docket at Staunton the clerk
shall docket the cases from each circuit separately, in the order in
which they ma.y be matured; and the cases from the counties of Fred·
eriek, Clarke, Warren, Page and Shenandoah, of the twelfth circuit,
may be heard at Winchester in the county of Frederick, at such time
as the court may fix for the hearing of said cases: provided, however,
the same shall be heard within the period of time allotted for the
holding of the court at Staunton. The clerk of the court at Staunton
shall take charge of all cases assigned to be heard at Winchester, and
shall attend said court and have the custody of the records of said 
cases until the same shall be disposed of, and then returned to the
office of the clerk of the court at Staunton at the end of each session
at Winchester. 
P01.Der1 and dutiu of court at each place of muting; bond ef clerk,, where 
taken; appellate jurisdiction in criminal casee] how ~h ease« tran,ferred 
and determined. 
11. The sessions and terms of the supreme court of appeals shall be
• di th . . f hi d th d d . f 
acoor ng to e prov1s1ons o t 18 act, an e powers an uties o
the court at each place of meeting shall be according to the provisions 
of this act and the laws now in force not inconsistent therewith. The
court, at one place of session, may also, if it see fit, appoint and take
bond from the clerks of the court at the other places, and the appel­
late jurisdiction of said court in any criminal case, may be exercised
at any place of session, no matter where the court may have been held 
which rendered the judgment in such case; and a criminal case pend­
ing in said court at one place may at any time, by its order, be trans­ 
ferred to another place, there to be heard and determined. 
Transfer of cause& from. one place to another; they may be determined without 
transfer; decision, how certified] its effect. 
12. By consent of the parties, or their counsel, or for reasons ap-
. th t dl . id t l f 
peanng to e oour , any case pen mg m sw cour at one p ace o
session, may be transferred to another place of session, there to be
heard and determined, or if already heard, there to be determined ;
and when a case has been heard at one place of session, it may, with-
out being transferred, be determined at another. In such cases, the
judgment, decree or order shall be entered on the order book at the
place where it is made, and shall be certified to the clerk at the place
where the case is pending, who shall enter the same on his order book. 
Every such judgment, decree or order shall have the same effect as if
entered in court at the place where the case is pending, and may be
reheard and reviewed at the next term of said court, subject to the
rules applicable to rehearings in other "cases. 
Where cases of prohibition or mandamus to be tried.
13. Writs of prohibition or mandamus from the court of appeals to 
any court, shall issue and be tried at the place of session of said court
of appeals, at which writs of error- to such court are to be tried. 
When majority of court cannot sit, how cases di.poled of; what clerk ta attend 
and act; how decision« certified. 
14. If at any time there shall be on the docket of the supreme court
of appeals a case in which a majority of the judges of said court are so 
situated as to make it improper for them to sit on the hearing thereof,
that fact shall be entered of record. The said court may thereupon
have summoned, from among the judges of the circuit court, as many
as, with the judges of the supreme court of appeals not so situated,
will make the number five, who shall, together, form and hold a spe- 
cial court of appeals, to hear and determine such case, at such time as
a. majority of them shall see fit; and it shall be held at Richmond,
Wytheville, Staunton or Winchester, as the case may be>. 
15. The clerk of the supreme court of' appeals, at the place at which
a special court of appeals is holden, shall, in person or by deputy, at­ 
tend such special court, with the records and papers in the case which
it is to hear and determine, and act as its clerk. 
16. The decisions of such special court shall be certified and carried
into execution as if made by the supreme court of appeals. 
17. Each circuit judge sitting on said special court shall have ten
dollars per day for every day's attendance on such court. 
'l'i,pstaff and crier; their duties and pay.
18. The supreme court of appeals, at each place of session, and such 
special court, may appoint a tipstaff and a crier, who shall perform
such duties as the court may require, and shall receive out of the trea­
sury such reasonable compensation as the court may allow, and be re­
movable at its pleasure. 
Law lilnary.
19. The law books belonging to the state library, or such of them as 
the supreme court of appeals may at any time direct, shall be put up
in the court room or conference room, and, together with the books
already in such room, shall form a. library for the use of the court, and
under its control, and shall be subject to such privileges to other per­
sons as may be allowed by law, or by the rules established by the court.
The court shall appoint one of its officers to perform the duties of
librarian. 
* ,Special court of appeal.s, how C<m8tituted; its terms; judges appointed ,mal,le
to sit, how places supplied. 
20. That the court of appeals shall designate annually three judges
of the circuit courts, to constitute a special court of appeals, who shall
assemble in the city of Richmond annually on such day as the court of
appeals may designate, and hold a court for the trial of such causes,
civil and criminal, as the court of appeals cannot dispose of with con­
venient dispatch; and shall certify to it, as provided in article sixth,
section three of the constitution of the state, not exceeding fifty at a
time. 
21. The terms of the said court shall continue, if the business re­
quire it, for ninety days, and not longer in any one year; and if from
any other cause any of the said judges shall be unable to sit, the court
of appeals shall designate some other judge or judges to take his or 
their place. 
2·) The duties of the clerk of said court shall be performed by the
clerk of the court of appeals, or such deputy as he may appoint, with 
· approbation of the said special court.
23. The sheriff of the city of Richmond, or one of his deputies, 
shall attend the sittings of the said court, and perform all the duties
now performed by the crier and tipstaff of the court of appeals. 
Record of special court; where to be filed. 
24. The said special court shall keep a record- of all its proceedings,
judgments and decrees, which shall be filed in the clerk's office of the 
court of appeals. 
Compensatian of judges.
~5. The judges of the said special court of appeals shall receive as 
compensation, the mileage and per diem that members of the general
assembly are entitled to by law. 
Laws applicable to court; records, how printed. 
26. The records in the cases in the said court shall be printed under
the laws now in force, or which may be hereafter enacted for printing
records of the court of appeals, and, except as herein provided, all the
laws applicable to the court of appeals shall be applicable to the said'
special court of appeals. 
Adjournment of court; reports of it.s decision&. 
27. The said special court shall have power to adjourn from day to 
day, or from time to time, and when compelled to adjourn by necessity
of holding circuit courts, it shall adjourn to some day after that neces- 
sity has ceased, of which it shall notify the court of appeals. The
supreme court of appeals shall cause to be reported and published by
its reporter, such of the decisions of the said special court of appeals
as it may deem of sufficient public importance. For which such com­
pensation shall be allowed and paid out of the treasury as may be cer-
tified by said supreme court of appeals to be proper. 
How long act lo continue in force. 
28. This act shall continue in force for two years, unless the supreme
court of appeals shall enter an order of record that the existence of
said court is no longer necessary: provided, that said special court
shall not decide any question arising under the homestead provision
of the constitution of Virginia. 
Removal of causes from special court of appeals to supreme court of appeals. 
29. Hereafter, when any cause which has been certified to the spe-
cial court of appeals for trial shall be called for trial in said court, and
it shall appear that one of the judges of said special court of appeals
has tried said cause as a circuit judge, or it be deemed proper by the 
court for any other good cause, it shall be the duty of said special court
of appeals to transfer said cause to the supreme court of appeals with
a certificate of such fact, and to proceed no further therein; and there­
upon said cause shall be redocketed in the supreme court of appeals. 
~- 
GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO COURTS. 
1. Beals for the oourte. 
2. Juriadiction of ooutta of counties on
water oouraea. 
a. What number of judges may bold a
court; how long a court may ll!dtz 
power of circuit court of Richmona
city to adjourn court. 
4. Power of court of appeals to preecrlbe
tonne of writ.a and make general ncu· 
latioJ1B to:1:: _practice of court.a.
5. How prooeecunp of court.a to be drawn 
up and authentioat.ed.
6 
CHAPTER CL VII. 
} Who attends a court aa it.a oflioer, and at
• what plooe it is t.o be held; eberuf of 
~ Richmond officer of several court.a; hia
· compensation. 
8". 
11. When governor may dell!dgnate plaoe.
12. Court must be held in count)" or corpon­ 
tion.
13. Acta of court.a held at improper placee 
oonflrmed.
14. Where court fails t.o meet OD day ap- 
Seal« for the courts.
1. For any court without one, the covernor shall provide a seal, 
which shall be deposited with the clerk thereof. 
pointed or to wbioh it ia ad.ioamed. 
15. } Provieione to J>reTent cues from being .
16. dieooa.tinuect, and aa to ouet.od7 cit 
17. records and pa~
18. Aa to judgment.a and decarees of court& 
DO longer exillting.
lt. Judges not permitted to practioe.la,r. 
Jurisdiction of courts of countie8 on waler cour,es.
2. Where any river, water course, or bay lies between any counties 
in this state, the courts for the counties on eaoh side, respectively, shall
have concurrent jurisdiction over so much thereof as is oppoaite to said 
counties. And the courts for counties lying on the waters ·bounding
the st&te shall have jurisdiction, respectively, over such waters opposite
said counties so far as the jurisdiction of this state extends. 
What nMmher of judges may ho/,d a court; how l<mg a court may ,it; pw,er of
circuit court of Ridlmond to adjourn court. 
3. The supreme and every special court of appeals may be held by 
any three or more of the judges of such court, Any such court, or any
other court, may, at any term, whether regular or special, adjourn from 
day to day, until the business before it is dispatched, or until the end
of its term. The judge of the circuit court for the city of Richmond
shall be, and he is hereby, authorized to adjourn the said courts during 
the terms thereof for a period not exceeding thirty days. 
. 
Power of court of appeals to ]We&cripe form& of writs and make general ref11•l.i.·
tiOM f()'I" practice of courts. 
4. The supreme court of appeals may, from time to time, prescribe
the forms of writs and make general regulations for the practice of ~11 
the courts; and, to the end of promoting uniformity in the practice of 
the courts of this commonwealth, and brevity and succinctness in all
pleadings and proceedings in the said courts, and of preventing ex- 
pe11.se and delays, it shall be the duty of the supreme court of appeals,
as soon 88 practicable, to prepare a system of rules. to regulate the prac-
tice in the said courts, to prepare a system or systems of pleadings to
be used in the said courts, and to prepare the forms of such pleadings
and of the process to be used in said courts. The said court, 88 soon
as they shall have prepared the said system of rules and pleadings,
shall report their proceedings to the general assembly, in order to fur-
ther legislation in the premises. 
How proceeding, of courts to be drawn up and authenticated.
5. The proceedings of every court shall be entered in a book, and 
read in open court by the clerk thereof. The proceedings of each day fa 
shall be drawn up at large, and read during that term, except those of
the last day of a term, which shall be drawn up and read the same day.
After being corrected, where it is necessary, the record shall be signed
by the presiding judge. 
Who attends a court a, iu offeer; and at "'~ place it i& held; 1heriff of Rich.
mond officer of ,everal courts; Ai& compenaation. . 
6. The court of appeals shall not be attended by any sheriff, and a
circuit or other court, held only for a corporation, shall be attended by
the sergeant of such corporation, who shall act 88 its officer. In all
other cases, the sheriff of the county in which any court shall sit, shall 
attend it, and act 88 the officer thereof. But the sheriff of the city of
Richmond, after his qualification, instead· of the sergeant of the said 
city, shall attend the circuit court, and also the chaaoery court, for the
said city, and act as the officer thereof; and he, or one of his deputies, 
shall attend the sittings of the special court of appeals, and perform
the duties bow performed by the crier and tipetaff of the oourt of ap- 
peals. The special court of appeals, the circuit oourt of the city of
Richmond, and the chancery court of the city of Richmond, re-
spectively, are hereby authorized to make such allowance to the sheriff
of the oity of Richmond, for se"ices in attending said oottrta, as may 
to them seem reasonable: provided, that the whole compensation si
allowed shall not exceed twelve hundred dollars. 
7. The circuit court for the county of Henrico,.shall sit in the city
of Richmond, at the courthouse of ~aid county, or at the place where' 
the circuit court for the city of Richmond is held. The circuit court
of Spotsylvania county, may sit at the courthouse thereof, or at the
courthouse in Fredericksburg, in conformity with the laws now in
force. Every other circuit, county or corporation court, for any county
or corporation, shall be held at the courthouse of such county or cor-
poration, except where· some other place is prescribed by law, or law-
fully appointed. 
8. When the courthouse prescribed for a circuit court to sit in, can-
not, from any cause, be occupied by it, or has been destroyed, such 
court shall hold its session at such place as may be appointed by its
order, or by the warrant of the judge thereof, in vacation, directed to 
the clerk; and if none be so appointed, at such place as may be ap­
pointed by the county or corporation court under the following section. 
9. Any county or corporation court may appoint some other place
than the courthouse thereof, to be, and the same shall be, the place of
session of the said court, from a certain day, to be specified in the
order, until thereafter the courthouse can be occupied, or if the court­
house shall have been destroyed, until another shall have been built 
and fitted for its occupation, or until some other place shall be ap­
pointed by the court. 
10. A copy of every order of court, or warrant of a judge under the
two preceding sections, shall be posted by the clerk of the court at
the door of his office, and at the courthouse door, and also at the place
so appointed. 
When governor may dengnate place.
11. Whenever, by reason of the destruction of any building in which 
h f l h. . 1 f als . . ted b
t e court o appea s or t e specia court o appe is sppom to e 
held, or by reason of the place of session being in possesslon of a pub­
lie enemy, or infected with contagious disease, it shall seem to the 
governor necessary, he shall, by proclamation, appoint a place at which
such court shall be held, so long as such reason may continue, and
when the circumstances require it, may postpone the time for holding
the court. A copy of such proclamation shall be sent to the clerk and
to each of the judges of any such court, and published in some news­
paper at the seat of government, and near the regular place of session
of such cdurt. 
Court mu8t be held in county or corporation.
12. No such place of session, for a circuit, county or corporation 
court, shall be without the limits of the county or corporation of
which it is the court. And when such place is appointed because of
the destruction of the building in which the court of appeals or spe­
cial court of appeals was held, the new place of session shaH be within
the same town with the old. 
Acts of courts held at improper places confirme,d. 
13. Where any court has at any time heretofo~e been held at a place
not authorized by law, in consequence of the destruction of the court­
house, or other unavoidable cause, the acts and proceedings of such
court shall not be invalidated for that reason, but shall be as valid as if
the co~rt had been held at the proper place. 
Where courtfails t, meet on the da.y appointed, or to which it is adjourned. 
14. Though a court be not held on the first day of a term, it may 
. • 
nevertheless be opened on any subsequent day: provided, m the case
of a circuit, county or corporation court, the same be done before four
o'clock in the afternoon of the third day. If,.aft.er a court is opened, 
it fail to sit on any day, it may nevertheless sit on any subsequent day
of the term: provided, in the case of a circuit, county or corporation 
court, there be not more than three consecutive days of such failure;
but a. circuit court, after being in session for fifteen- days, may take a 
recess for a period not exceeding fifteen days. 
15. When the place for holding any court or the day for commencing
any term is changed, or when a court fails to sit on any day appointed
for it or to which it may have adjourned, there shall be no discontinu- 
ance, but every notice, recognizance, or process given, taken, or return-
able to the day on which the failure occurred, or to any day between 
that day and the next that the court may sit, or to the day and place
as it was before such change, and all matters ready for the court to act
upon if it had been held on any such day, shall be in the same condi- 
tion and have the same effect as if given, taken, or returnable, or con-
tinued to the substituted term or place, or to the next day of the same
term that the court may sit, or to the next court in course, as the case
may be. 
16. All causes upon the docket of any court, and all other matters
ready for its decision, which shall not have been determined before the
end of a term, whether regular or special, shall, without any order of
continuance, stand continued to the next term. 
17. Although a notice, recognizance, or process shall have been given,
taken, or issued before the day prescribed for the commencement of
this act, it may, nevertheless, be given, taken, or returnable to a day 
after such commencement, or to a court established by this act, or the
clerk's office of such court, in like manner as if this act had commenced 
before the same was given, taken, or issued. And· npthing in this act
shall operate to discontinue any cause or matter, civil or criminal,
which shall be depending and undetermined in any court. on the day
before this act takes effect; but every such cause and matter shall be
proceeded in, tried and determined in such court, or in the court which
succeeds to or has its jurisdiction. The papers and records of such
causes and matters, and all books, records, and papers whatever which
on the said day may be in the custody of any clerk of a court shall re-
main in custody of the clerk of the same, or of such court 88 succeeds
to or has its jurisdiction. 
As to judgment8 and deeree« of courts no longer exuting.
18. Every judgment, decree, or order entered in a court which shall 
have ceased to exist, shall be executed by the court in custody of whose
clerk the record of such judgment, decree, or order may be under the 
preceding section, or by means of process issued from the clerk's office
of the last mentioned court. And to such court shall be certified every 
judgment, decree, or order of the court of appeals touching any judg-
ment, decree, or order so entered, and the case shall be proceeded in
as if such court had rendered tbe same. 
Judges not permitted to practice law.
19. No one holding the office of judge in this state shall practice law 
during his continuance in office in any court of this commonwealth; 
133 
but the judge of any county court shall be privileged (if a. licensed law­
yer) to appea.r as attorney a.t law in any case not pending in his court, 
or which cannot be carried into or has not been ta.ken from his court
on an appeal. 
Su. Sec.
1. Who liable to eene u ju.ron. n. Oflloen fined for neglect of duty. 
2. Who exempted from jury duty. ( Special juries, how formed; ar.o juries 
a. } :· in felonies and forcible entry &Dd de- 
to Juries, how organized and summoned. • tainer.
6. 25. Pay of grand juron. · 
8. Juries1 how aeloot.ed from lillt; how ap- 26. Pay of jurors in felonv, milldemeanor.
portioned between Fredericksburg and and in civil ca.sea; Low pay &ppol'- 
Bpot.aylvania, and Jamee City and tioned between'11tate and county.
William!lburg; grand juries, howllUm- 27. Pay for attendance without lleffll18'i 
moned. how veruled. 
7. Venire faciaa, when and how iseued. 28. Departing without leave, not entitJed to •
8. ProceediDg9 of clerk in drawing baJlotB; pay 
when and how jurors to be summoaed ; 29. Pay .;,hen settled out of county leyY; 
return of officer to court. how regulated.
9.} Who to iraw the ballotB; if juror ea- 30. l Clerk to make entry of aervioe; pay of 
10. empted, how hie place supplied; other 31. f juror by lltate and b7 county. 
11. :r:egulationa for the drawmg. 32. Penalty for fraud on Jury box,
12. When mode of 11ummoning may be dill- 83. No board allowed for Jurors in proeeeu- 
penaed with. tions for milldemeanors.
13.} How juries for trial of causes selected; 34. No person to be juror at term at which 
1 t. fine for non-attendanoe; judge may he baa a caae to be tried.
U. direct leu number to be summoned. 35. Juries for Jamee City county, where 
16. l How jurors may be diaoharged; when' summoned. 
17. ~ not enough, how deficiency supplied. 36. Trial by jury may be waived, or the 
18·} 
19• 
Qualiflcation ancl dillqualiflcation of ~umber reduced by consent. 
jurors; when ~cepted to. 
CHAPTER CLVIII. 
OF JURIES OBNERALLY.* 
37
· Views. 
~: Irregularity cured by verdict. :: l Conduct of juron and sheriff. 
W ho liable to serve as jur<,rs. 
1. All male citizens twenty-one yea.rs of age, and not over sixty, who
are entitled to vote and hold office, under the constitution and laws of
this state, shall be liable to serve as jurors, except as hereinafter pro·
vided. 
Who exempted from jury duty. 
2. The governor and lieutenant governor of the state, practicing
attorneys, licensed practicing physicians, officers of any court, all tele­ 
graph operators actually engaged as such in any office in this state,
officers and members of the fire department of a. city or town, and all
persons mentioned in the second and third sections of chapter twenty· 
second as exempted from ordinary militia duty ( except school commie­ 
sioners, trustees of free schools, and officers of the militia who resign
their commissions after serving seven years successively, and non-com·
missioned officers and members of volunteer companies), shall be ex·
empted from, serving on juries in civil and criminal cases; t and the 
citizens of Tangier, Syxes, and Chincoteague islands, in the county of
Accomack, and Hog and Cobb's islands, in the county of Northampton, 
a.re hereby exempted from jury service, except service on grand juries. 
Juries, how <>rganized and 8ttmmtmed.
3. The judge of each county or corporation court shall, as soon after 
this act goes into effect 88 may be, and thereafter annually, at the May
or June term of such court, prepare a list of such inhabitants of the
county or corporation, not exempt as aforesaid,. as he shall think well
qualified to serve as jurors, being persons of sound judgment and free
from legal exception. Such list shall contain not less than one for every
one hundred inhabitants of each township or ward, having regard to
the population of the county, so· that the whole number of persons
selected in the county shall amount at least to one hundred, and not 
exceeding three hundred. ·
4. The list so prepared, shall be delivered to the clerk of the court, 
to be safely kept by him, subject only to the inspection of the judge,
as hereinafter prescribed; and to such list the judge may add the names 
of any persons liable to serve, and to strike therefrom the name of any
person who has been convicted of any scandalous offence or been guilty
of any gross immorality. 
5. When such list is made out, the judge shall cause all the names
thereon to be fairly written, each on a separate paper or ballot, and
shall fold or roll up the ballots so that the names written thereon shall
not be visible on the outside, and to resemble each other as nearly 
a.s may be, and shall deposit the ballots in a secure box, prepared for
the purpose, which shall be safely kept by the clerk, and shall be
opened only by order of the judge, as hereinafter prescribed. 
Juries, how selected from list; how apportioned between Frederick&burg, and
Spotsylvania, and James Ci.ty, and Williamsburg; grand jurQTs, how sum­ 
moned. 
6. All jurors required for the trial of cases in any circuit, county or
hustlngs court, except cases of felony, shall be selected by drawing 
ballots from the said box in the manner prescribed in this act; and
the persons whose names are written on the ballots so drawn, shall be 
returned to serve as jurors: provided, that jurors required for the trial
of cases in the circuit court of Spotsylvania county, when the said court
is sitting in Fredericksburg, shall be selected by drawing ballots from
the box of the hustings court of said town; and when the said court
is sitting at the courthouse of said county, the jurors aforesaid shall 
be selected by drawing ballots from the box of the county court, Said
jurors for the county to be paid out of the county levy, and those for 
the corporation to be paid by the common council out of the revenue
of the said town: and provided further, that jurors required for the
trial of cases in the circuit court of James City and the city of Wil-
liamsburg shall be selected by drawing ballots from the box of the
county court of James City and the box of the hustings court of Wil-
liamsburg, in the manner prescribed in this act; the ballots drawn 
from the two boxes respectively, being in the proportion which the
judge of the said circuit court, in vacation or in court, may direct.
Grand jurors shall be summoned as now provided by law : * provided,
that in the circuit court of ,J amea City and the city of Williamsburg,
the judge shall, either in vacation or in court, direct the sheriff to 
summon grand jurors from the county and the city in such proportion
from each as he may in bis discretion think proper. 
Venire facias, when and how issued.
7. The clerk of every county or corporation court shall, at least ten 
days before any term of a court a.t which a jury may be wanted, to be
designated by the judge thereof, issue a writ of venire facias for six­
wen jurors, and shall therein require the attendance of the jurors on
the first day of the court, or at such other day thereof a.s the said court
shall order; but whenever, in the opinion of the circuit, county or cor­
poration court of any county or corporation, a greater number of jurors
than sixteen is necessary for the dispatch of the business of said court,
such opinion shall be entered of record, together with the number of
jurors deemed necessary by said court; and if it be the circuit court,
it shall be the duty of the clerk of the circuit court to notify the clerk
of the county or corporation court of such county, in writing, at least
twenty days before the jurors are required to attend, of the number of
jurors so ordered, and the time and place at which they are to attend.t 
Proceedings of clerk in drawing ballots, when and how jurors to be summoned;
return of officer to court. 
8. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the county or corporation
court, on a day not less than seven nor more than ten days before the
day on which the jurors are required, in the presence of the judge, if
practicable, if not, of the commonwealth's attorney or one of the com­
missioners in chancery of the circuit court of the county or corporation,
to cause the proper number of jurors to be drawn from the box, and 
forthwith deliver the writ of venire facias already issued, in pursuance 
of the seventh section, to the proper officer of the county or corpora­
tion, requiring him to summon the persons thus drawn, whose names 
shall be stated in the writ, together with the term and the court at
which they are required to attend. And it shall be the duty of the
officer, at least three days before the time when the jurors are required
to attend, to summon each person who is drawn, to attend the sitting
of the court a.t the time and place mentioned in the writ, and make a
due return thereof at the opening of the court in which the attend­
ance of the jurors is required. 
Who to draw the ballots; if juror exempted, how Iii& place supplied; oilier
regulations for the drawing. 
9. When jurors are to be drawn as aforesaid, the ballots in the jury
box shall be shaken and mixed together, and the clerk, in the presence 
of the judge, if present, if not, in the presence of the commonwealth's
attorney or commissioner in chancery of the circuit court of the county
or corporation, shall openly draw therefrom as many ballots (without
inspecting the names written on any until the proper number is drawn)
as shall be equal to the number of jurors required; and if any person
whose name is so drawn is exempted by law, or is unable, by reason of
sickness, absence from home, or other cause, to attend as a juror,
his name shall be returned to the box; or if his name has been struck
from the jury list, the ballot" shall be destroyed and another shall be
drawn in his stead. 
IO. When any person is drawn and returned to serve as a juror 88 
aforesaid, the judge, if present, if not, the commonwealth's attorney
_or commissioner in chancery, shall cause to be endorsed on the ballot 
containing his name, the word "draw·n," and shall return it to the box;
and the date of the draft shall be entered on the list of jurors opposite
his name. 
11. No person who, in pursuance of such draft, has actually attended
any court and served as a juror, shall be liable to be drawn again during 
the same year, unless all the persons whose names are in the jury box
have been drawn to serve during such year. 
When mode of summcming may be dispensed with.
12. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall prevent any 
t f
. . 'ts f . f: . . te ti ~ additi 1 . 
cour rom issuing wri o vemre acias m rm rme ror 1 iona JU· 
rors, or requiring other jurors to be summoned whenever it shall be
found necessary for the convenient dispatch of business; in which case 
the writ shall be served and returned, and the jurors shall be required 
to attend on such days 88 the court shall direct. All of said jurors
shall be summoned from a list to be furnished the officer by the judge
of the court. 
H<1W juries for trial of causes selected; fine for non-attendance; judge may di­
rect less numher to be summoned. 
13. On the day when the jurors are summoned to attend at any
court, the clerk shall write the name of each one who ehall~be in at.
tenda.nce and not excused, on a separate paper or ballot, and place the
same in a box to be kept for that purpose, in the manner prescribed in
the fifth section of this act; and juries for the trial of cases shall be
selected therefrom by lot. 
14. If any person duly summoned to attend as a juror in any court,
shall neglect to attend, without any sufficient excuse, he shall pay a 
fine not exceeding twenty dollars, which shall be imposed by the court.
15. If, in the opinion of any court, a lesser number of jurors than 
twenty-eight will suffice for the convenient dispatch of the business
thereof, it shall be the duty of such court to enter such opinion of re. 
cord, expressing therein the number of jurors proper to be summenedj
and thereafter, until otherwise directed, the venire facias shall not re-
quire a greater number to be summoned to attend such court. 
16. Any court, when not incompatible with the proper dispatch of 
its business, shall have power to discharge persons summoned as jurors
therein, or to dispense with their attendance on any day of its sitting. 
17. When, by reason of challenge or otherwise, a sufficient number
of jurors, duly drawn and summoned, cannot be obtained for the trial 
ot any case, the court shall cause the jurors to be returned from the 
bystanders or from the county or corporation at large; and for that
purpose may direct a venire faciaa to any fit person, whose duty it shall
be to execute and return the same according to the exigency thereof. 
All of said jurors shall be summoned from a list to be furnished the 
officer by the judge, unless the judge shall deem it proper to dispense
with said list. 
Qualification and duqualification of ju.rora; when excepted to. 
18. The persons so returned shall be such as a.re liable to serve as
jurors according to the provisions of this law. 
19. The court shall, on motion of either party in any suit, examine
on oath any per~n who is called as a juror therein, to know whether
he is related to either party, or has any interest in the cause, or b&B 
expressed or formed any opinion, or is sensible of any bias or preju(\ice
therein; and the party objecting to the juror may introduce any other 
competent evidence in support of the objection; and if it shall appear 
to the court that the juror does not stand indifferent in the CBUBe, 
another shall be drawn or called and placed in his stead for the trial 
of that cause.
20. No exception shall be allowed against any juror after he is sworn 
upon the jury, on account of his age or other legal disability, unless by 
leave of court. 
Irregularity cured by verdict.
21. No irregularity in any writ of venire faciss, or in thJ drawing, 
summoning, returning, or impaneling of jurors, shall be sufficient t-0 
set asidea verdict, unless the party making the objection was injured
by the irregularity, or unless the objection was made before the swear­
ing of the jury. 
Officers fined for neglect of duty.
22. When, by neglect of any of the duties required in this act to be 
performed by any of the officers or persons herein mentioned, the
jurors to be returned shall not be duly drawn and summoned to attend 
the court, any person guilty of such neglect, shall pay a fine not exceed·
ing twenty dollars, to be imposed by the court. 
Bpecia.l juries, how formed; also juries in felonies and f orcible cr,try and
detainer. 
23. Any court may allow a. special jnry in any case, to be formed in
the following manner, viz: A panel shall be made of twenty-qualified 
I 
jurors, to be summoned by an order of the court for that purpose, free
from just ca.uae of exception, from w h.ich sixteen shall be chosen by
lot; the pa.rties thereupon, beginning with the plaintiff's or common-
wealth's attorney, when the commonwealth is a party, shall alternately
strike off' one, until the number be reduced to twelve, which number
shall compose the jury for the trial of the case. The said jurors shall
be summoned from a list to be furnished the officer by the judge of the
court. 
24. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall apply to the
impaneling of juries in cases of felonies, but thejurors shall be called,
chosen, sworn, and impaneled for the trial of every case of felony ac- 
cording to chapter two hundred and two concerning juries in such
cases; nor shall anything in the said sections apply to the impaneling
of juries in cases of forcible entry or unlawnd detainer, where the trial
is not at the jury term of the court. 
Pay of grand jur()'l'8,
25. Every person who shall serve upon a grand jury shall be entitled 
to receive one dollar for such service, t.o be paid out of. the eountj' or
corporation levy. 
Pay of jur()'l'8 in felony, misdemeanor, and in civil cases; how pay apportioned
• between state and county. 
26. Jurors in prosecutions for felony, whether in a circuit, county or
corporation court, shall be paid as provided in the tenth section of 
chapter two hundred and two. Jurors in prosecutions for misde-
meanors, shall each be entitled to receive, out of the public treasury,
and jurors in civil cases, out of the county or corporation levy, one dol-
lar for each day he attends the court. And when, during the same
day, a person has served on juries for which he would be entitled to 
be paid out of the public treasury, and also on juries for which he
would be entitled to be paid out of the county or corporation levy, the
court shall apportion the charge ratably, according to the service ren-
dered. 
Pay for attendance without serving; lwto verified. 
27. If any person, summoned as aforesaid by virtue of the venire
faeias, shall actually attend upon the court, but shall not be called to 
serve on a jury, he shall, for each da.y he so attends without serving on
a jury, be entitled to receive fifty cents, to be paid out of the county
or corporation levy, as the case may be. The claim for such attendance
shall be verified by the oath of the person making the same, in the
manner prescribed by law in respect to the attendance of witnesses. 
Departing without leave, not entitled to pay. 
28. No juror, who shall depart without leave of the court, or, being
summoned as a witness for the commonwealth, shall charge for his at-
tendance as such, shall be entitled to receive any compensation for his
services as juryman. 
29. The county court of any county, and the council of any town,
may, by an order entered of record, which order shall be annually 
made when the levies are -laid, allow a greater or less compensation
than is prescribed herein, in those cases in which jurors are to be paid
out of county or town levies: provided, that not less than fifty cents a. 
day be paid to each person who shall serve as a juror, nor less than
twenty-five cents a day for attendance in obedience to a summons when
he is not called to serve as a juror. 
Clerk to make entry of service; pay of juror by state and by county.
30. The clerk of any court in which juries are impaneled shall, be­ 
fore its final adjournment at each term, and under the direction of the
court, make an entry upon its minutes, stating the amount to which
each juror is entitled for his services or attendance during the term,
and specifying how much is payable by the commonwealth, and how 
much by the county or corporation. 
31. It shall be the duty of such clerk, as soon as practicable after the
adjournment of the court, to transmit to theauditor of public accounts,
certified copies of all orders under the next preceding section, making
allowances against the commonwealth; and also deliver to each juror
a certified copy of any such order, making an tllowance to him, pay­ 
able by the commonwealth, and a like copy of any such order, making
an allowance to him, payable. by the county or corporation; and the
treasurer of such county or corporation shall, upon demand, pay to 
such juror the amount allowed him, which shall be repaid to the said
treasurer out of the public treasury, or out of the county or corpora­
tion levy, as the case may be, upon the production of satisfactory proof
that the same has actually been paid by him. 
Penalty for fraud on jury box. 
32. If any person shall be guilty of any fraud, either by practicing 
on the jury box previously to a draft, or in drawing a juror, or in re­ 
turning into the jury box the name of any person which has lawfully
been drawn out and drawing and substituting another in his stead, or
in any other way in the drawing of jurors, he shall, on conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars. 
No board all-Owed for jurors in prosecutions for misdemeanors, 
33. Too eleventh section of chapter two hundred and two shall not
b t d to l . . . ~ . d 
e cons rue app y to Jurors m prosecutions tor nns emeanors. 
No person to be juror at term at which he has a case to be tried.
34. No person shall be admitted to serve as a juror, except in trials 
for felony, at any term of a court during which he has any matter of
fact to be tried by a jury, which shall have been or is expected to be
tried during the same term. 
35. The sheriff of the county of James City may summon the in-
habitants of the said county in any part of the city of Williamsburg, 
to serve on juries in the said county. 
Prial by jury may be waived, or the number reduced by consent.
36. In any case, except a case of felony or misdemeanor, unless one 
of the parties demand that the case be tried by a jury, the Whole mat-
ter of law and of fact may be heard and determined, and judgment
given by the court; and by consent of parties, entered of record, the 
jury may consist of seven, and in that case a verdict shall be as valid,
and have the same effect, as if it had been found by a jury of twelve.
And in any civil case in which the consent of the plaintiff and defend-
ant shall be entered of record, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff to select
one person, who shall be eligible as a juror, and for the defendant to 
select another, and for the two persons so selected, to select a third of
like qualifications, and the three so selected, shall be considered a jury
in the case, shall take the oath required of jurors, and shall hear and 
determine the issue, and, any two concurring, shall render a verdict,
under the instruction of the court, in like manner and to the like effect
as a jury of twelve. 
37. The jury may, in any case, at the request of either party, be
taken to view the premises or place in question, or any property, mat­
ter, or thing, relating to the controversy between the parties, when it
shall appear to the court that such view is necessary to a just decision:
provided, the party making the motion, shall.advance a sum sufficient
to defray the expenses of the jury and the officers who attend them in
taking the view, which expenses shall be afterwards taxed like other 
legal costs. 
Conduct of jurora and sheriff.
38. A juror knowing anything relative to a fact in issue, shall disclose 
the same in open court.
39. After a jury has been impaneled, no sheriff or other officer shall 
. h . l . h . l
converse wit or permit any one e se to converse wit a Juror, un ess 
by leave of the court. 
Viewa. 
I. The clerks of the county and corporation courts, and of the cir·
ouit courts, shall be elected e.s prescribed in the fifteenth section of ar- 
ticle the sixth, and in the first section of the seventh article of the
constitution of the state, and moreover, in the mode provided in the 
eighth chapter; the time for the commencement of their terms, and
the mode of taking oaths, and giving bonds, shall be as provided in the 
same chapter; the manner of creating vacancies, and supplying them,
according to the twenty-first, twenty-second, twenty-third and twenty­
fourth sections of chapter six, and the mode of contesting elections 
under the provisions of the ninth section of the ninth chapter.j 
Clerks of court of appeals.
2. There shall be three clerks of the court of appeals: one for the 
said court a.t Richmond, one for the said court at Staunton, and one
for the said court at Wytheville. The term of office of each of these
clerks shall be six years.* 
Removal of clerk».
3. The court of appeals may remove its clerk at any time. t The 
county and corporation courts shall have power to remove from office
all county, city, town and township officers, elective under this act, in 
their counties and corporations respectively, for malfeasance, misfea-
sance, or gross neglect of official duty; such removal to be deemed a
vacation of the office: provided, that the circuit courts shall have
power, for the same causes, to remove the clerks of their courf.s re- 
spectively, and with like effect. All proceedings under this section,
shall be by order of, or motion before, the proper court, upon reasona- 
ble notice to the party to be affected thereby. 
Wilen and how clerk or clerk pro tempore may be appointed in case qf vacancy. 
4. When the office of clerk is vacant, a clerk pro tempore may be
. ted b th rt . th . ti h f if . b . it 
sppom y . e cou , or m e vaca ion t ereo, 1 it e a circui
court, by the judge thereof, or if it be the court of appeals, by any
three of the judges thereof. The appointment in y-acation shall be in
writing, and recorded in the book wherein the proceedings of the 
court are recorded. t 
5. Before the term of a clerk expires, his successor may be appointed
and qualified to act in the office from the end of the said term.] 
Examination of clerk' a office.
6. Before any vacancy existing or to occur in the office of clerk shall 
be filled, the court shall, and at any other time it may, appoint two or
more persons to examine the clerk's office. They shall examine the fee 
books, and the condition of i,he records and papers in the office, and
report whether the clerk has faithfully discharged his duties. The
court may allow to each person ma.king such examination, not exceed-
ing five dollars a day, which, if the examination be of the clerk's office
of a county or corporation court, shall be chargeable on such county
or corp?ration, and in other cases shall be paid out of the treasury. 
Bond of· clerk; copy transmitted to auditor; where original recorded ; penalty; 
appointment of deputy. 
7. Every court shall take from its clerk (unless he be clerk pro tern- 
. 
pore) bond in a penalty of not less than three nor more than ten thou- 
1s20-21,p.8,c.4, sand dollars; and a court may, at any time, require of and take from
its clerk a. new bond. Every clerk shall, within two months after the
execution of his bond, transmit a copy thereof to the auditor of public
accounts, and deliver the original as follows: The bond of the clerk of 
a county or corporation court, to the clerk of the circuit court having 
• • • • , 
jurisdiction over such county or corporation; the bond of the clerk of
a circuit court of a. county or corporation, to the clerk of the county or
corporation court thereof;* and of each clerk of the court of appeals,
to the clerk of the court of the county or corporation wherein the
court sits whose clerk has given the bond. Every such bond shall, by
the clerk to whom it is delivered, be recorded forthwith. Any clerk
who shall fail to do what is required of him by this section, shall pay a
fine of not less than one hundred, nor more than five hundred dollars. 
8. The clerk of any county, corporation, or circuit court, may, with
the consent of the court, or of the judge in vacation, ( the said consent 
in vacation being given in writing,) appoint a deputy, who, during the
continuance in office of said principal, may discharge any of the duties
of said clerk, unless otherwise provided by law. He may be removed
from office either by his principal or by the court, or by the judge in
vscation.] 
Residence of clerk and place of clerk' a office. 
9. The clerk's office of the court of appeals at Richmond shall be
kept at the state courthouse, and the clerk's offices for the said court
at Staunton and Wytheville shall continue at the places at which they
a.re now kept, unless the said court shall see cause to direct its clerk's 
office, in any case, to be kept elsewhere. The clerk's office of the cir­
cuit court of the county of Spotsylvania. may be kept at such place in
the town of Fredericksburg as may be prescribed by the said court.
The clerk's office of every other circuit, county or corporation court
for any county or corporation, shall be kept at the courthouse of such 
county or corporation, unless there shall have been a failure by the
proper authority to provide such office there, in which case the clerk's
office may be kept at such other place within the county or corporation
as the court may direct. Every clerk of any circuit, county or corpo­ 
ration court shall reside within the countyor corporation for which
such court is held, except where it is otherwise allowed by law.; 
Papers in office to be preserved; removal out of county prohibited; exception ; 
open to mspection ] copies authorized.
10. All papers lawfully returned to, or filed in, the clerk's office, 
shall be preserved therein until legally delivered out. 
11. None of the records or papers of a court shall be removed by the 1 
clerk, nor allowed by the court to be removed, out of the county or ~°udedbythe 
corporation wherein the clerk's office is kept, except on an occasion of ~~°:id~­ 
invasion or insurrection, where, in the opinion of the court, or in a~
'fery sudden case,· of the clerk, the same will be endangered, after e, 
• Om.Jtted, 
which they are to be returned so soon as the danger ceases; and ex-
cept in such other cases as are specially provided for by law. Any
clerk violating this section shall forfeit six hundred dollars.* 
12. The records and papers of every court shall be open to the in-
spection of any person, and the clerk shall, when required, furnish co- 
pies thereof, except in cases where it is otherwise specially provided. 
Power of clerk to administer an oath. 
13. Any clerk of a court, or his deputy, may administer an oath in
any case wherein an affidavit is necessary or proper as the foundation
of an official act to be performed by him. 
Aa to preparing bonds, and as to partition, or recovery, or o.saignment
in land, under judgment, decree or order. 
14. Every clerk shall prepare, in a proper manner, any bond to be
taken by, or given before, him or his court. 
15. The clerk of the court wherein there is any partition of, or as-
signment of dower in, land under any order, or any recovery of land 
under judgment or decree, shall transmit to the clerk of the court of
each county or corporation wherein such land is, a copy of such order, 
judgment or decree, and of such partition or assignment, and of the
order confirming the same, and along th~rewith such description of the 
land as may appear in the papers of the cause. And the clerk of the
court of such county or corporation, shall record the same in his deed
book, and index it in the name of the person who had the land before,
and also in the name of the person who became "entitled under such
partition, assignment or recovery. 
As to keeping execution book, and as to indexes.
16. The clerk of every circuit, county, or corporation court shall 
keep an execution book, in which he shall enter in each case wherein
an execution is issued, the names of the parties, the time of the judg-
ment, the amount thereof, or a reference to the page of the order book
wherein the amount appears, the date of each execution, nature thereof, 
when returnable, and, if return be made thereon, the nature of such
return. 
17. The clerk of every court shall have an index to each book he is
. d k ki . " d d 
require to eep, ma. mg convenient rererenee to every or er, recor ,
or entry therein. Every execution, and every judgment or decree for
money, shall be indexed, as well in the name of the person against
whom as in the name of the person in whose favor the same is. 
of dower 
18. The clerk of every circuit, county, or corporation court from
whose office may be issued any process, original, mesne, or final, or any 
order or decree to be served on any person, shall, unless the party in­
terested, or his attorney, direct otherwise, deliver the same to the sheritf 
or other officer of the county or corporation for which the court is held,
if it is to be executed therein, and if it is to be executed in any other 
county or corporation, shall inclose the same to the sheriff or other
officer thereof, put it in the post office, and pay the .postage thereon.
The clerk shall keep a process book, wherein there shall be an entry
of every such process, order, or decree, showing its nature, date, and
return day; the person to whom and time when it was delivered, or if
it was mailed, the time thereof and the person to whom it was inclosed.
From any officer to whom there is such delivery, the clerk shall take 
a receipt in his process book.
19. If there come directed to a clerk, by mail, a letter with an in­ 
dorsement on the envelope of the parties' names and the nature of the
process inclosed, he shall take the same out of the post office and pay 
such postage as may be payable thereon. 
Lut of jtutices and nominations to be sent to governor.
20. The clerk of the court of every county shall transmit to the 
governor, on or before the thirty-first day of December in each year, a
list of the justices acting in the said county on the preceding first day 
of November, and shall transmit to the governor a copy of every order
containing any nomination to him within a month after the date of
such order; if he fails to do either, he shall forfeit one hundred dollars. 
Duplicate certificatu of allowance prohibited, ,mleas ordered by court; what
duplicate must show; penalty on clerk. 
21. There shall be no duplicate certificate of any allowance of a court 
to be paid out of the treasury, unless the court, upo_n proof by the oath
of the party or otherwise of the loss or destruction of the original cer- ·
tificate, shall order a duplicate; it shall show on its face that it is a 
duplicate issued by order of the court. Any clerk who shall issue a
duplicate otherwise, shall forfeit one hundred dollars. 
Report of the businus in, and days of session of, the. courts; penalty for /ailurt; 
duty of clerk of house of delegates.
22. The clerks of the court of appeals, and the clerk of each circuit 
court, shall annually, before the first day of November, make to the
clerk of the house of delegates a report of the number of days the 
court was in session within the year ending on the la.st day of August
preceding, and the state of the business in the court during the said
year, in the following form: 
The report shall show, as to each of the said classes of cases, the num­
ber of each kind during the whole year, except that the number pend­
ing will be of those pending at the end of the year. In the pending
there shall be included cases at rules as well as on the court docket.
In the actions decided there shall be included judgments by default in
the office which have become final. But there shall not be included
judgments on forthcoming bonds, or on notices of motion other than 
notices authorized by section sixth of chapter one hundred and sixty.
three. The clerk may appen~ any remarks, and therein give any in­
formation which he sees fit as to any case In.his court. 
23. The clerk of the house of delegates shall report to the auditor of
public accounts every clerk who may fail to make such report. Any
clerk so failing, may be fined not exceeding fifty dollars.* 
24. Any fine or forfeiture under this chapter may be recovered in
like manner as if this were a chapter under the twelfth title. 
25. There shall be chargeable in every county or corporation such
sum as the court thereof may, for services to the public of the county
or town, allow i.ts clerk, not exceeding for one year, two hundred dol-
lars, except that the county courts of Nottoway and Prince Edward
may allow such sum as they shall deem proper to their clerks, not ex-
ceeding four hundred dollars; and the clerk of the hustings court of
the city of Richmond shall receive for his services the compensation
allowed him by the twenty-second section of chapter one hundred and 
fifty-four. 
How fines aqaisut clerk» are recovered. 
Payment8 to clerks by county <J1' corporation, 
26. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the several county and cor­
poration courts to keep a record of such papers relating to the loss of 
property during the late war, as they may be required to do by this
act. Any persons who have suffered losses by the operations of war,
since the seventeenth day of April, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, 
may make a statement of such losses, stating the kind and. description
of property, including negroes emancipated; at what time taken, dam­
aged or destroyed; by the army of which belligerent; and in whatever
manner, by either army; and the amount of loss sustained-making
the value of said property on the first ,January, eighteen hundred and
sixty-one, the standard of valuation, and offer the same, proved by the
affidavit of one or more citizens, to the clerk of the county or corpo­ 
ration in which the said property was taken, damaged or destroyed,
who shall receive and record the same in a. book to be kept for that
purpose. The original papers shall be safely kept by the clerk, but
they may be withdrawn at any time after they have been recorded.
The affidavits may be taken by a justice ef the peace, a notary public,
or the clerk of the court in which the papers are recorded. In all 
such cases the clerk shall have the same fees, to be paid by the parties
respectively, 88 he has for similar services in other cases, and in addi­ 
tion thereto, twenty-five cents for taking affidavits. 
CHAPTER CLX. 
OF A'PTORNEYS AT LAW GENERALLY. 
Ste. &c. 
}
Certiflcateandlioemen808ll&J"1t.oenable 
1. pel'IIOn to practice law; who may grant 
Certificate and license necu,ary to enable person to practice law; who may grant
license ; perem licensed in an adjoining ,tat.e may practice here, 
1. Any two judges, chosen under the constitution of this state, may
1· . iti to t" 1 . th ts f hi tat t 
grant a. icense, m wrr mg, prac ice aw m e cour o t is s...u e o
any person who shall, on examination, be found duly qualified, and 
who shall produce to them a certificate of the court of the county or
corporation where he has resided for one year next preceding, that he 
is a person of honest demeanor and is over twenty-one years of age.
All licenses granted or signed by any judge of the supreme court of
appeals of this state since the fourteenth day of January, eighteen
hundred and sixty-four, shall be as valid as if granted or signed by a 
judge of a circuit court of this state. 
5
} LiceD.8811 ma7 be s118l)81lded or annulled 
on con"riotion of felony, and for other
2. licen1e; pel'IIOD licenaed in an adjoin- · oaU8811. 
6· 
tog state may practice here. 7. Becurity for good behavior, or fine ror 
3. Att.omey muat qualify in each court in cont.empt.
which he practice11. 8. Who may not practice law in certain 
4. Penalty for practicing without being Ii- eourlL 
eensed and qualified; in what oaaes 9. l Liability of att.omev to hill client.
penalty is not incurred. 10. r # 
11. Att.omey'11 rees. 
2. Any person duly licensed and practicing as counsel or attorney at
law in any state adjoining this, or in the District of Columbia, may
practice as such in the courts of this state. 
Attorney must qualify in each court in which he practices. 
3. Every such person shall produce before each court in which he
intends to practice, satisfactory evidence of his being so licensed, and~
take an oath that he will honestly demean himself in the practice of:~~-',~.
the law, and to the best of his ability execute his office of attorney at 
law; and also, when he is licensed in this state, take the oath of fidelity
to the commonwealth. 
Penalty for practici1lg witlwut being licensed and qualified; in wha.t cases penalty
is not incurred. 
4. If any person shall practice law in any court of this state without
being so licensed, or without taking the oaths required, he shall forfeit 
one hundred and fifty dollars for each case in which he shall appear as
attorney, one-half whereof shall be to the informer; but this penalty
shall not be incurred by an attorney for instituting suits in the superior
courts, af~er obtaining a license, if he shall qualify at the first term
thereafter of the circuit court of any county or corporation of the cir- 
cuit in which he resides. 
Licenses may he suspended or annulled on conviction of felony, and for other 
5. Any court before which any attorney has been qualified, on proof
being made to it that he has been convicted of any felony, may super- 
sede his license.
6. If any circuit court observes any malpractice therein by any attor- 
ney, or if complaint be made to any circuit court of malpractice by any
attorney therein, or in the court of the county or corporation for which
such circuit court is holden, such court shall order the attorney to be
summoned to show cause why an information sh~uld not be filed against
him; and if such information be ordered, and the attorney be found
guilty, the court may suspend his license for a time, or annul it. The
court of appeals and special court of appeals shall have the like power
over attorneys practicing in those courts respectively; and in case an
information should be ordered in such case, may cause n jury to be 
impaneled to try the same. · 
Security for good behavior, or fine for contempt. 
7. Nothing in the preceding section shall affect the right of any
court to require from an attorney therein security for his good beha-
vior, or to fine him for a contempt of the court. 
Who may not practice law in certain court,. 
8. If any justice, clerk, sheriff or sergeant, or any deputy of either,
or any person interested in the profits of any such office, shall act as 
135 
cau&es. 
attorney at law in any case in any court of which such justice, clerk,
sheriff or sergeant is a member or officer, he shall forfeit thirty dollars. 
OF THE ATTORNEY·GENERAL1 AND OTHER ATTORNEYS FOR THE COIUIOSWEALTR. 
l;} Duties of the attorney-general, and 
&c. 
whore his office is kept; his feea.
6. Attorneys for the commonwealth; their 
6, 
· term of oflice ; qualification ; power to
remove them, and mode of contesting 
their election. 
Liability of attorney to his client • 
. 9. Every _att.orney at law shall be liable to his client for any damages .
sustained by him by the neglect of his duty as such attorney.* 
10. If any attorney receive money for his client and fail to pay the
same on demand, it may be recovered from him by warrant, or by suit
or motion according to the amount, and damages in lieu of interest,
not exceeding fifteen per centum per annum until paid, may be
awarded against him. 
Attorney's fees. 
11. An attorney shall be entitled, as a fee, to the amount which the
clerk is authorized to tax in the bill of costs, in any suit, or for any
service as such attorney. But any contract made with an attorney for
other or higher fees, shall be valid, and may be enforced in like man· 
ner with any other contract. 
CHAPTER CLXI. 
&c.
7. Their compensation ; special allowanoe 
to attorney for Norfolk city an4
county, and for city of Richmond. 
8. Violations of penal laws; how common­
wealth's attorneys are to prooeed 
against violaton. 
Dutie« of the attorney-general, t and t1Jhere hu office i8 kept; his feee, 
1. The attorney-genera.I shall give his opinion and advice, in writing,
when required to do so by the governor, or by any of the public boards 
and officers a.t the seat of government. ·
2. He shall appear 88 counsel for the state in all cases in which the 
commonwealth is interested, depending in the court of appeals in
either district thereof, or in the circuit court of the city of Richmond.* 
3. He shall annually, on or before the first day of November, deliver
to the governor a. report of the state and condition of the several 
causes in which the commonwealth is a party, pending in the said
courts. 
4. The governor shall assign to the attorney-general a room in the
capitol for his office, or if that be not practicable, the attorney-general
is authorized to procure an office contiguous- to the capitol, the rent
whereof shall be paid out of any money in the treasury not otherwise
appropriated: provided, the rent therefor shall not exceed four bun·
dre<l dollars per annum. 
5. On the final determination of any cause in any court mentioned
in the second section, in which the attorney-general appeared for thee. 
state, the clerk thereof shall certify to the auditor of public accounts
the fee of the attorney-general, which shall be paid out of the public
treasury. His fees in a circuit court, on an appeal from a decision of
the auditor, shall be the same as are taxable in the general court.j 
A ttoT1lt'!J8 for the commonioealth ; their term of office; qualification; power to
remove them, and mode of contesting their election. 
6. Attorneys for the commonwealth shall be chosen by the qualified
voters of the respective counties at the general election in N ovem her
of the year eighteen hundred and seventy, and every third year there-
after, and shall hold their offices for the term of three years. In like
manner, attorneys for the commonwealth for each city and town in
the commonwealth containing a population of five thousand inhabi-
tants, shall be chosen at the general election to be held in May, eigh- 
teen hundred and seventy, and every second year thereafter, who shall
hold their offices for the term of two year~.t Their duties, liabilities
and place of residence shall be as prescribed in the first section of
chapter forty-six, and their qualification and bonds as provided in the
second and third sections of said chapter. 
Their compensation ] special allowance to attorney for Norfolk city and county,
· and for city of Richmond. 
7. Such attorney, in any county or corporation court, shall be. 'al- 
lowed by the court such sum as it deems reasonable for public services,
for which no other fee or reward is allowed by law, which shall be 
chargeable to such county or corporation; and in addition, shall be al-
lowed not exceeding ten dollars for every case of felony, and five dol-
lars for every case of misdemeanor prosecuted and tried in any circuit 
county or corporation court, or in which there may be ajudgment for
the commonwealth-such allowance to be paid upon the order and
certificate of the court in which the service is rendered; in addition 
to which, the attorney' for the circuit court of Richmond city shall
hereafter receive annually the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars;
and the at.torney for the circuit courts of the county and city of Nor·
folk shall hereafter receive annually the sum of seventy-five dollars;
and the attorney for each of the other circuit courts shall hereafter re­
ceive annually the sum of .. fifty dollars. 
V iolations q.f penal laws;* how commonwealth' & attorne:JJS are to proceed against
violaiors, 
8. Every commissioner of the revenue, sheriff, constable or other
officer, shall give information of the violation of any penal law to such
,a.ttorney, who shall forthwith institute and prosecute all necessaryand
proper proceedings in such case, whether in the name of the common·
wealth or of a county or corporation, or of the overseers of the poor;
and may in such case issue, or cause to be issued, a summons for any
witness he may deem material, to give evidence before the court or
grand jury. 
&c. l&c.
1.} How report.a are to be eontracted for· 7. Superintendent ?f ,Public printing to 
to d · f ' contract for pnnting reporta. 
a. utiee 
REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS OF THE COURT OF APPEALS. 
O 
CHAPTER CLXII.t 
reporter. 8. Reprinting of certain volumes of Leigh'•
6. Allowance to reporter. and other reports. 
How reports are to be contracted for; duties of reporter. 
I. The supreme court of appeals is hereby authorized to contract
with some suitable person to report such of the decisions of said court
as the judges thereof shall direct, at a rate of compensation not ex· 
ceeding fifteen hundred dollars a year, payable monthly ...
2. The said reporter shall prepare, and, annually, before the tenth 
day of September, deliver to such printer as the superintendent of
public printing may direct, manuscript reports of such of the decisions
made during the year ending the first day of July, by the supreme
court of appeals, as the judges of said court shall direct, with an ab­
stract of the points decided in each case, and an index to the contents
of the volume. 
3. He shall examine and correct the proof-sheets thereof as they
shall be furnished him by the printer. 
4. The said court of appeals may at any time put an end to the said re., 
contract, nnd contract with another person for performing the service,
upon the same terms. 
5. In those cases which the reporter is directed to report, copies of Id
the reasons, stated in writing, under section four of the sixth article of
the constitution, shall be delivered by the clerks of the court to the
reporter. 
Allowance to reporter. 
6. The volume of said reports for the pre"sent year, ending the first re., 
day of July, eighteen hundred and seventy-one, shall include cases
decided by the court since the first of July, eighteen hundred and
seventy, to which time the nineteenth volume of Grattan's Reports
comes down ; and the court may make an allowance to the reporter
who has or shall report the cases decided before a contract is made un-
der this act, and which has been, or shall be, directed to be reported:
provided, such allowance shall not be greater, pro rata, than is author-
ized by this act to be given to the reporter. 
8uperintenden~ ef public printing to contract/or printing reports. 
7. The superintendent of public printing shall contract for the print-
ing and binding of one thousand copies of the reports, by the reporter P· 
of the court of appeals, of the decisions of that court, in a style not
inferior to the reports heretofore published, and secure the copyright 
of the said reports for the benefit of the commonwealth; and he shall
deliver the volumes, when completed, to the secretary of the common-
wealth. • In all other respects, in relation to the printing and binding
of said reports, the eighth section of the act of March first, eighteen
hundred and sixty-six, entitled an act to amend and re-enact the pro-
visions of the Code of eighteen hundred and sixty, and the acts subse-
quent thereto, 'in regard to the public printer and the public printing,
shall apply. 
Reprinting of certain volumes of Leigh's, and 'other reports. 
8. The superintendent of public printing shall, during the year
eighteen h1!ndred and sixty-seven, contract in writing with the lowest 
bidder for the printing and binding of five hundred copies each of the
sixth and seventh volumes of Leigh's Reports, in a style equal in every
respect to the second editions of previous volumes, and shall deposit
said contract with the secretary of the commonwealth. The books,
when the printing and binding is completed, shall be delivered to the
secretary of the commonwealth, and shall constitute a part of 'the
library fund. Upon the acceptance of the books by the secretary or
the commonwealth, as of the style contracted for, the superintendent
of public printing shall certify the completion of the work, and the
price agreed upon, to the a~ditor of public accounts, who shall there-
wpon issue his warrant for the sum due, payable out of any ~oney in
the treasury not otherwise appropriated. The superintendent of public
printing ~hall also, when requested by the secretary of the common- 
wealth, contract in like manner for reprinting and binding other vol­
umes of the reports of the court of appeals of which the stock belong·
ing to the library fund .is or shall be exhausted; and the auditor shall
issue his warrants on the treasury in payment for the same, when certi­
fied to him in the manner hereinbefore required as to the sixth and
seventh volumes of Leigh's Reports; but not more than two of the
reprinted volumes shall be paid for in any one year; and if at any time
it shall appear to them expedient, the library committee may forbid
the making any further qontracts for such reprints.* 
1. A notice, no particular mode of serving which is prescribed, IJ).ay 
be served by delivering a. copy thereof in writing to the party in per-16:i'!iir.,
son; or, if he be not found at his usual place of abode, by delivering 
auch copy and giving information of its purport to his wife or any
person found there, who is a. member of his family, and above the age
of sixteen yea.rs; or, if neither he nor his wife, nor any such per- 
son be found there, by leaving such copy posted at the front door of
said place of abode. Any sheriff or sergeant, thereto required, shall
serve a notice within bis bailiwick, and make return of the manner
and time of service; for a failure so to do he shall forfeit twenty dol­
lars. Such return, or a similar return by any other person who verifies
it by affidavit,-shall be evidence of the manner and time of service.* 
2. Any such notice to a person not residing in Virginia may be served
by the publication thereof once a week, for four successive weeks, in a
newspaper printed in this state. 
Notices to non-residents to take depositions may be served on counsel] courts to
decide upon validity of such notice. 
3. Whenever any party on w bom a notice to take a deposition sbould
be' served, is not a resident of Virginia, the service of such notice on 
the counsel of such party.shall have like effect as if it were served upon
the party, provided the time between the service of notice and taking
the deposition be sufficient for conveying by ordinary course of mail a
letter from tbe place of service to the place of residence of the party,
and a reply from that place back to the place of service, and then for
the counsel to attend at the place of taking the deposition. In all
cases when notice is served on counsel as aforesaid, the court, upon ex­
ception being taken, may determine whether, under all the circum­
stances, the notice has been served in reasonable time, and admit or
reject the deposition accordingly. 
Ten days' notice generally required of motion for judgment.
4. In any case wherein there may be judgment or decree for money 
on motion, such motion shall be after ten days' notice, unless some
other time be specified in the section giving such motion. 
Remedy by motion on certain bonds taken or given by officer».
5. The court to which, or in, or to whose clerk or office, any bond 
taken by an officer, or given by any sheriff, sergeant or constable, is re­
quired to be returned, filed or recorded, may, on motion of any person,
give judgment for so much money as he is entitled, by virtue of such
bond, to recover by action. · 
Remedy by motion, after si:rty days' notice, on contracts generally; when notice 
mmt be returned to clerk' a ojfice; provision to prevent discontinuance of mo·
tion. 
6. Any person entitled to recover money by action on any contract,
may, on motion before any court which would have jurisdiction in an
action, otherwise than under the second section of the one hundred
and sixty-fifth chapter, obtain judgment for such money after sixty
days' notice, which notice shall be returned to the clerk's office of such 
court forty days before the motion is heard. A motion under this sec·
tion, which is docketed under the first section of chapter one hundred 
and seventy-three, shall not be discontinued by reason of no order of
continuance being entered in it from one day to another, or from term 
to term.* 
OF CHANGING A PERSON'S NAJIE; SUING IN THE NAMES OF PERSONS wno ,\RE
DEA.Dj AND THE JOINDER OP TENANTS IN COMMON. 
se. 
l. Chan,ring a penon's name.
2. Jointfer of tenants in common. 
Joinder of tenants in common.
2. Tenants in common may join or be joined as plaintiffs or defend- 
ants. 
Agaiinst what part of those liable, judgment may be given, on motion. 
7. A person entitled to obtain judgment for money on motion, may,
h 1 
When, on a motion, there may be trial by jury • 
. 8. On a motion when an issue of fact is joined, and either party de·
sire it, or when in the opinion of the court it is proper, a jury shall bes
impaneled, unless the case be one in which the recovery is limited to:
an amount not greater than twenty dollars, exclusive of interest. 
CHAPTER CLXIV. 
I 
. f 
Sec.
3. Suing in the names of persons who are 
dead. 
O hanging a person' a name. 
I. Any person desiring a. change of his own name, or that of his
child or ward, may apply therefor to the circuit court of the county or 
. . hi h .} id "f h b . . f l ' h
corporation m w re ie resi es, or 1 e e a. citizen o t ie state, wit · 
out a. fixed residence in any one county or corporation, his application
may be to the circuit court of the city of Richmond. In the case of a
minor who has no parent or guardian, this application ma.y be made
by his next friend. On any such application, the court, in its discre-
tion, may order a. change of the name, and thenceforth the new name 
shall be in place of the former. · 
Suing in the names of persons who are dead. 
1.
bl '" . h 
as to any, 01· t e persona representatives o any person ia e tor sue
money, move severally against each, or jointly against all, or jointly
against any intermediate number ; and when notice of his motion is 
not served o.n all of those to whom it is directed, judgment may never-
theless be given against so many of those liable as shall appear to have 
been served with the notice. Such motions may be made from time to
time until there is judgment against every person liable, or his per.
sonal representative. 
3. Upon any official bond, executed before this act is in force, suit 
may be maintained (for the benefit of any person injured by the breach
of the condition thereof), in the names of the judges, justices or other 
person to whom such bond is payable, whether any of the obligees be 
alive or not; and although any justice to whom the bond is made pay­ 
able, was not sitting in the court at the time of its execution, or although
any other justice was sitting at that time.* 
CHAPTER CLXV. 
OP THE COUNTY OR CORP01tATION IN WHICH PROCEEDINGS ARE COlflfENCIUJ.t 
&c. I Ike. 
l.-} Where actions at law, orsuita in equity, 4. As to writa 
0f. 
Dl.lUlda!Dll!', .P~hloitioa
2. may be brought. and oert1oran; ~hat J uriadiction COIUl- 
3. ty courts have m such eaeee, 
1V here actions at law, or suits in equity, may he brought. 
1. Any action at law, or suit in equity, except where it is otherwise
specially provided, may be brought in any county or copora.tion: 
First. Wherein any of the defendants may reside.
Secondly. If a corporation be a defendant, wherein its principal office 
is, or wherein its mayor, rector, president, or other chief officer resides. 
If the suit or action be to recover a loss under any policy of insurance,
either upon property or upon life, the action or suit may be brought in
the county or corporation wherein the property insured was situated,
or the person whose life was insured resided at the date of the policy
of insurance. 
Thirdly. If it be to recover land, or subject it to a debt, or be agaim* 
a defendant who resides without,t but bas estate or debts due him
within this state, wherein such land, estate or debts, or any part thereof, 
may be; or,
Fourthly. If it be on behalf of the commonwealth, in the name of 
the attorney-general, or when it may be necessa.ey or proper, to make
any of the following public officers a. party defendant, as representing
the commonwealth, to-wit: the governor, attorney-general, treMorer,
register of the land office, or either auditor; or, when it. me.y be neoes·
sary or proper, to make any of the following public corporations partie8
defendant, to-wit: the board of education, board of public works, or
any other public corporation composed of officers of government) of 
the funds and property of which the commonwealth is sole owner, or
in which it shall be attempted to enjoin or otherwise suspend or affect 
any judgment or decree on behalf of the commonwealth, or any exe­ 
cution issued on such judgment or decree, the action or suit shall be 
brought in the circuit court of the city of Richmond; or,
Fifthly. If a judge of a circuit court be interested in a case, which, 
but for such interest, would be proper for the jurisdiction of his court,
t~e action or suit may be brought in any county or corporation in an
adjoining circuit. 
2. An action may be brought in any county or corporation wherein
the cause of action, or any part thereof, arose, although none of the 
defendants reside therein.
3. Any action or suit mentioned in the two preceding sections may 
be in a circuit, county, or corporation court of any county or corpora­
tion wherein it is allowed thereby to be brought . 
.A& to writs (!( mandamus, prohibition, and certiorari; what jurisdiction county
courts have in such cases. 
4. Jurisdiction of writs of mandamus, prohibition, and certiorari 
se. 
OF PROCESS, AND THE ORDER OF PUBLICATION, 
l. Forms of writ.a.
2. How pl'OCe88 is directed and returnable. 
3. When new pl'000811 may ieeue; if officer 
had executed and not returned former
process, what to be done. • 
4. Officer's duty after rules, to get from
clerk's office proeess, orders, and de­
crees. 
Ii. Pl'OCC88 requiring a defendant to appear. 
8. How a summons or scire f11eias is served ;
copy made 01,1t to be delivered to de­ 
fendant; whitt time must elapse before
there is final judgment by default. 
7. How to serve prooess against, or notice to 
a corporation. · 
, , 
( except such as may be issued from the court of appeals) shall be m
the circuit court of the county or corporation in which the record or
proceeding is to which the writ relates. Any such writ may be awarded
either by the circuit court or (in vacation) by the judge thereof: pro· 
vided, however, that the county court in term, or the judge thereof in 
vacation, shall have jurisdiction of writs of mandamus in all matters
or proceedings a.rising from or appertaining to the action of the board
of supervisors of the county and tne township boards of the counties
for which such county courts are holden . 
.CHAPTER CLXVI. 
8. How to serve process or notice in a case
against n common carrier other than
a corporation. 
Sec. • 
9. No judgment on retUl'D8 of nihiL 
1 o. On what affidavit, order of publication ill 
entered; it may be in court, or by the
clerk m V8Cl\tion. 
11
} Orders of publication to answer ap~ 
12
• in court of appeulll; how published 
· and posted.
l S. How loss of evidence of service of procea 
in court of appeals, supplied. 
U. What order of publication is to state;
how it is published. 
15. When case to be tried after publication;
what judgment to be entered. 
16. When case may be reheard.
17. Abatement of process in oortain caaes, 
prevented. 
Forms of writs.
1. Until the court of appeals shall alter the forms of writs, the same 
may be as heretofore used, except so far as is otherwise provided. 
Ilow process directed and returnable. 
2. Process from any court, whether original, mesne, or final, may be 
directed to the sheriff of any county or sergeant of any corporation,
I 
. d " d ( 1 Il d I t 
except t 1at process against a eren ant un ess a rai roa , cana , um· 
pike, or telegraph company be defendant) to answer in any action:::~: 
• 
brought under the second section of chapter one hundred and sixty-
five, shall not be directed to an officer of any other county or corpora·
tion than that wherein the action is brought. Any process may be 
executed on or before the return day thereof. If it appear to be duly
served and good in other respects, it shall be deemed valid, although 
not directed to any officer, or if directed to an officer, though executed
by any other to. whom it might lawfully have been directed. It shall 
be returnable, within ninety days after its date, to the court on the
first day of a· term, or in the clerk's office, to the first Monday in a 
month, or to some rule day, except that a. summons for a witness shall
be returnable on whatever day his attendance is desired, and process
awarded in court may be returnable as the court ~hall direct. 
When new process may issue; if officer had executed and not returned former
process, ioha: is to he done. 
3. If, at the return day of any process, it be not returned executed, 
1· h b . d "th t . . ( h- 
an a ias, or ot er proper process, may e issue , wi ou waiting w ere
the first process is returnable to a term) for the subsequent process to
be awarded nt rules; and where, for want of a. return of the first pro· 
cess against a defendant, any subsequent process is issued, if the former
was executed, the officer shall not ~xecute the latter, but shall return
the former, if it be in his possession, and if he has it not, shall return
the latter with an indorsement of the execution of the former, and the
proceedings thereupon sha11 be as if the first had been duly returned. 
Officer' a duty after rules, to get from clerk's office process, orders, and deems. 
4. Every officer who attends a court shall, within five days after the
end of any rules, go to the clerk's office and receive all process, orders, 
and decrees to be executed by him, and give receipts therefor. For
any failure so to do, he shall forfeit fifty dollars . 
Process requiring a defendant to appear. 
5. The process to commence a suit shall be a writ commanding the
officer to whom it is directed to summon th; defendant to answer the
bill or action." It shall be issued on the order of the plaintiff, bis 
attorney or agent, nnd shall not, after it is issued, be altered, 11or any
blank therein tilled up, except by the clerk. 
How a summons or scire facias is served; copy made out to be delivered to de­ 
fendant; what lime must elapse before there is final judgment b.11 default. 
6. Any summons or scire facias against any person, may be served as 
a notice is served under the first section of chapter one hundred and
sixty-three; to which end, the clerk issuing such process, unless other-
wise directed, shall deliver or transmit therewith as many copies thereof 
as there are persons named therein, on whom it is to be served. No
judgment by default, on a scire facias or summons, shall be valid, if its 
become final within one month after the service of such process. 
How lo serve process against, or notice to, a corporation. 
7. It shall be sufficient to serve any process against, or notice to a 
ti 'ts to id t th hi f ffi .
corpora ion, on 1 mayor, rec r, presr en , or o er c 10 o cer, or m 
his absence from the county or corporation in which he resides, or in
which is the principal office of the corporation, against or to which the 
process or notice is, if it be a city or town, on the president of the 
• • • 
council or board of trustees, or m his absence, on the recorder or any
ld
t t
d 
if · b . h
1
. 
a. ermaa or rus ee; an 1 1t e not a city or town, on t e cas ner or
treasurer; and if there be none such, or he be absent, on a member of~~
the board o~ directors, trustees or visitors.· If the case be against a 
bank of circulation, and be in a county or corporation wherein the bank 
• . 
has a branch, service on the president or cashier of such branch bank
shall be sufficient; and if the case be against some other corporation,
whether incorporated by the laws of this state, or any other state or
country transacting business in this state, or any agent thereof, or any
person declared by the laws of this state to be an agent of such corpo-
ration; and if there be no such agent in the county or corporation, pub-
lication of a copy of the process or notice, as an order is published under 
the eleventh section of this chapter, shall together be sufficient.* Ser-
vice on any person under this section, shall ho in the county or corpo- 
ration in which he resides; and the return shall show this, and state
on whom and when the service was, otherwise the service shall not be
valid.] 
llow to serve process or notice in a case aqainst a commo,i carrier other titan a
corporation. 
8. In a case against any common carrier, ( other than a corporation.)
for any liability as such, it shall be sufficient to serve any process against
or notice to the carrier, on any agent, or the driver, captain or conductor 
of any vehicle of such carrier, in the county or corporation wherein the
case is commenced, and to publish a copy of the process or notice as an
order is published under the fourteenth section of this chapter. 
9. No judgment shall be rendered on a scire facias, or in any other
case, on return~ of nihil. 
On wltat affedavit order of publication is entered; it may be in court, or by tk
clerk in vacation. 
10. On affidavit that a defendant is not a resident of this state, or
h dili h b d l b h lf f h l . "ff 
t at 1 igence as een use lY or on e a o t e P ainti to ascer- 
tain in what county or corporation he is, without effect, or that process,
directed to the officer of the county or corporation in which he resides,
or i87 has been twice delivered to such officer more than ten days before
the return day, and been returned without being executed, or that 
h d l' d . . l' di f h b d f . . 
t e eren ant, m a suit ror a ivorce rom t e on o matrimony, is 
under sentence to confinement in the penitentiary, an order of publi- 
cation may be entered against such defendant. And in any suit in 
equity, where the bill states that the names of any persons Interested
in the subject to be divided or disposed ot are unknown, and makes
such persons defendants by the general description of parties unknown,
on affidavit of the fact that the said names are unknown, an order of
publication may be entered against such unknown parties. Any order
under this section may be entered either in court or by the clerk of 
the court at any time in vacation. In a proceeding by petition, there
may be an order of publication in like manner M i_n a suit in equity.* 
Orders of publication to answer appeals in court ef appeals; how publi8l1ed a'ltd
posted. 
11. When, by the return of any officer of process issued to answer
any appeal or supersedeas now pending, or which may be hereafter
pending in the supreme court of appeals* in this commonwealth, or
when, from affidavits filed with either of the clerks of said court, it 
shall appear that the appellee or defendant in any such appeal or super·
sedeas is a. non-resident of this commonwealth, or that the names or
place of residence of such parties are unknown, so that process cannot
be served upon them, it shall and may be lawful for the clerlts of such 
court in vacation, upon application, to take and issue, on the first
Monday in any month, an order of publication against such absent 
or unknown parties, requiring them to appear on a. certain <lay to be 
designated in said order, then and there to answer the said appeal or
eupersedeas, and to have a rehearing of the whole matter therein oon­ 
tained.
12. A copy of such order of publioa.tion shall be inserted for four 
weeks in ~ome newspaper to be named therein, and posted at the door
of the courthouse of such courts; and when it shall appear that said
order of publication bas been duly published and posted as afore..q&id,
the said court may proceed to hear and decide such causes in the s&Dle
manner as if the said parties had been personally served with prooess: 
provided, however, that the order of publication shall have been exe­
cuted as aforesaid, at least thirty days before the day on which any
such case may be called for trial. 
How loss of evidence of service of process in court of appeals supplied. 
13. In all cases depending in the court of appeals, in which the evi-
dence of service of process upon any of the parties was lost bf the
burning of the records in the fire of April, eighteen hundred and sixty-
five, where any party interested shall make oath that he is unable to 
ascertain the residence of parties on w horn such lost process had been
served, such parties may be summoned to appear by publication, for
two months, in soine newspaper published in Richmond; and such
summons shall be deemed equivalent to actual service of process. 
What order states; how it is published and posted. 
14. Every order of publication shall state briefly the object of the
suit, and require the defendants against whom it is entered, or the un- 
known parties, to appear within one month after due publication thereof,
and do what is necessary to protect their interests. It shall be pub-
Iished once a week for four successive weeks, in such newspaper as the 
court may prescribe, or if none be so prescribed, as the clerk may di-
rect, and shall be posted by the clerk at the front door of the court-
house of the county or corporation wherein the court is held, on the
first da.y of the next county or corporation court after it is entered. 
When case to be tried after publ~ation; what judgment to be entered. 
I
15. When such order shall have been so posted and published, if the 
defendants against whom it is entered, or the unknown parties, shall
not appear within one month after such publication is completed, the 
case may be tried or heard as to them; and no other publication shall
b th fte 
. ed . di . t b fi •
e erea r reqmr 
many procee mg m court, or e ore a. commis-
sioner, or for the purpose of taking depositions, unless specially or­
dered by the court, as to such defendants or unknown parties. Per­
sonal service of the summons, scire faeias, or notice, may be made by
any person not a party to or otherwise interested in the subject-matter
in coniroversy, on a non-resident defendant out of this state, which
service shall have the same effect, and no other, as an order of publi­
cation duly posted and published against him. In such case the return
must be made under oath, and must show the time and place of such
service, and that the defendant so served is a non-resident of this state.
Upon any trial or hearing, under this section, such judgment, decree 
7 
or order, shall be entered as may appear just. 
When case may be re-Mard. 
16. Any unknown party, or other defendant, who was not served
with process, and did not appeal" in the case before the date of such 
judgment, decree or order, or the representative of any such, may,
within five years from that date, if he be not served with a copy of such 
judgment, decree or order, more than a year before the end of the said 
five yeal'!:1, and if he be so served, then within one year from the time 
of such service, petition to have the case re-heard, and may plead or
answer, and have any injustice in the proceedings corrected. 
OF THE, RULES, PLEADINGS GENERALLY, AND JUDGJIENTS IN THE OFFICE, 
se. Ste. 
1. When rules are held, and how long con- 26. Protestation may be omitted.
tinued. 27. How .traverses shall conclude; as to 
2. Docket in which rules are entered. _ _pleading over to the inducement. 
s. I What is done when there is no clerk ; 28. When plaintiff may proceed without
4. f rules from month to month. joinder in demurrer or lllimiliter. 
6. When defendant may appear and give a 29. How plea ahall oommence.
rule to file a declaration or bill; plain- SO. After one plea, bow another may com- 
tiff faiµng to proeecute, non41lited. mence. 
6. Although defendant do not ap~z suit 81. Form of demurrer or joinder in demur· 
to be iliami.aaed after three montllll, if rer.
declaration or bill be not filed. 32. What def3Cta not to be regarded on de- 
7. When fact of defendant's non-residence murren. 
S.} is to be returned, and Ill.it abated. :: J A.a to demurrers and pleas, in equity.
9. General rulea aa to immaterial allegations 35. } When answer may be filed; not to delar 
10. 86. the cause; proceedings on except.ioDS
11 
12' 
} Of the deola.ration; not to abat.e for 37. to answer. 
want of form; what avermenta may be 38. Affidavit neceeaary to plea in abatement.
• omitted. or plea of non eat factum. 
13. When account must be filed with decla- 39. Or where denial of handwriting.
ration. 40. Or denial of partnership. 
14. Declaration on policy of inauranoe. 41, Pleadinga may be sworn to before clerk; 
15
} Amended or supplemental bill; bill of affidavit of belief 11u.fllcient. 
16• 
Abatement of process in certain cases prevented. 
17. If, at any time before the passage of the act repealing the act of
May fifteen, eighteen hundred and sixty-two, entitled an a.ct prescribing
an oath in certain cases, any civil process WM sued out in any court of
record, or before a justice of the peace, without a compliance with the
provisions of said act of May fifteen, eighteen hundred and sixty­
two, such process shall not be abated or dismissed for that cause, but
shall be held to be as valid, in all respects, as if the provisions of said
act had been complied with.* 
CHAPTER CLXVII. 
revivor and croaa bill; proceedings 42. l Judgment or decree by confession; or in 
' thereon. 43. f the office by default. ·
17. As to infant or insane defendant; power u. In what eases enquiry of dam8B(!I uaae- 
to appoint guardian ad litem, and cessary .
make him act; aa to his eosta land- ) How judgment in the office maybeeet 
charges. 45. 1 aside or become final j if issue joined, 
18. Plea in abatement for misnomer not al- 46. t when it may be trioo; if final jqdg· 
lowed; power to amend, by inserting J ment, it.a effect aa a lien. .
right name. 
19. Whnt defects can be taken advantage. of, 
When rules held and how long continued.
I. In the clerk's office of every circuit, county, and corporation court, 
1862, 
47
} Aft.er bill taken for oonfeeaed, proceedinl 
48• 
by attachment, or t..o have ans,renon 
only by plea in abatement. · interrogatories. 
20. How and when exception must be taken, (9, When a Ill.it in equity may be .et for 
to the jurisdiction. hearing. 
21. What must be stated in plea in abate- 50. When plaintiff may proceed to judg· 
ment for non-joinder, ment 1~ part of defendants. 
22. When iaeueonpleainabatementfornon- 51. When 11u1t in equity may be heard aa to
joinder will be found against def en- part of defendant.a i how plain Ii« COIJ!t· 
dant. palled to mature bia cause, cir ban 1 
23. After such plea, how declaration may be aiamia&ed. .
amended; if only part of defendant.a 52. Control of court over proceedings m 
be liable, how Judgment ia to be en- office. •--'
tered. 63. l Decreea in chancery cauaea, when en- 
24. Defendant may plead several matters. 5-i. ~ in vacation; former decrees 'l'Blidated.
25. Unneoeasary to uae allegation of "ac­ 
tionem non," or "precludi non," or
prayer of judgment. 
l'Ules shall be held on the first Monday in every month, except when a.
term of a circuit court or a term of a. county or corporation court, de-
signeted for the trial of civil cases in which juries are required, hap·
pens t.o commence on the first Monday in a month, or either of the 
two following days, or on the preceding Tuesday, Wednesday, Thurs-
· d h 1 hi h h . d h 
day, Friday or Satur ay, t e ru es w re ot erwise woul ave been
held for the said month on the first Monday, shall be held on the last
'Monday in the next preceding month; and, when in any county or 
corporation, the said courts shall commence on the Monday before the
first Tuesday of any month, the rules shall in said county or corpora-
tion lie held on the Monday before the commencement of said courts.
The rules may continue three days; but when in any case such con·
tinuance would interfere with the term of the court for which the rules
are held, they shall not continue in such case beyond the day preced- 
ing the commencement of the term of such court. 
Docket in which rule« are entered. 
2. There shall be a docket of the cases at rules, wherein the rules
shall be entered; and the books in which rules and orders are entered, 
in chancery cases, shall be separate from those in which rules and or-
ders are entered in other cases. 
What is done when there is no clerk; rules from. month to month.
3. When there is no clerk to take a. rule in a case, it shall stand con- 
tinued until the next rule day after there is a clerk.
4. The rules may be to declare, plead, reply, rejoin, or for other pro- 
ceedings; they shall be given from month to month. 
When defendant may appear and give a rule to file a declaration or bill; plain-
tiff failing to prosecute, non-suited. 
5. A defendant may appear at the rule day at which the process
against him is returnable, or if it be returnable in term, at the first rule
day after the return day' and if the declaration or hilt be not then filed, 
may give a rule for the plaintiff to file the same. If the plaintiff fail
to do this at the succeeding rule day, or shall, at any time after the de·
fendant's appearance, fail to. prosecute his suit, he shall be non-suited, 
and pay to the defendant, besides his costs, five dollars. 
Although defendant do not appear, suit to be dismissed after three months if
declaration or bill be not filed. 
6. If three months elapse after the process is returned executed as to
any one or more of the defendants, without the declaration or bill be- 
ing filed, the clerk shall enter the suit dismissed, although none of the
defendants may have appeared. 
When fact oJ defendant's non-residence is to be returned, and suit abated.
7. When a summons to answer an action or bill is against a defend- 
ant whom the officer (receiving it) knows not to reside in his county?
or corporation, he shall, unless he find him therein before the return 
da.y, return him a. non-resident; whereupon, if the court from which
such process issued have jurisdiction of the case only on the ground of
such defendant's residence in such county or corporation, the suit shall
abate as to him. 
General rules as to immaterial allegations. 
8. It shall not. be necessary in any declaration or other pleading to
set forth the place in which any contract was made, or act done, unless
when, from the nature of the case, the place is material or traversable,
and then the allegation may be as to a deed, note or other writing
bearing date at any place, that it was made at such place, or as to any
other act, according to the fact, without averring or suggesting that it
wos at or in the county or corporation in which the action is brought,
unless it was in fact therein. 
9. It shall not be necessary, in any action, to aver that the cause of
action arose, or that the matter is within the jurisdiction of the court,
or to make profert of any deed, letters testamentary, or commission of
administration; but a defendant may have oyer in like manner as if 
profert were made.
10. All allegations which are not traversable, and which the party 
ld b ' d b ' ed 1 h h
cou not e require to prove, may e omitt , un ess w en t ey are 
required for the right understanding of allegations that are mnterlal. 
Of the declaraiion ; not to abate for want of form; what avermenu may be
omitted. 
11. No action shall abate for want of form, where the declaration
sets forth sufficient matter of substance for the court to proceed upon
the merits of the cause. 
12. In actions of trespass, general averments that the defendant.
committed other wrongs, and that the acts charged were done with
force and arms, and against the peace, may be omitted; and the plain·
tiff may prove all that he could have done if such averments had been
inserted in the declaration. 
When account m.ut be filed with declaration.
13. In every action of assumpsit the plaintiff shall ~le with his de­ 
claration an account stating distinctly the several items of his claim,
unless it be plainly described in the declaration. 
Declaration on policy of· iMUrance.
14. Hereafter no particular form of declaration shall be necessary in 
an action upon a policy of insurance, but it shall be sufficient for the
plaintiff to file a. complaint, in writing, at common law, settlng forth
the grounds of his action and the relief prayed for, and filing there­
with the original policy, or a sworn copy thereof, upon which his action
is brought, and the loss or death relied upon as the ground of his re­
covery, and that he has performed all the conditions of said policy and
violated none of its prohibitions; and in such complaint it shall not be 
necessary to set forth every condition or proviso of said policy, nor to
aver observance of or compliance therewith seriatim, but a. general 
averment to that ~ffect shall suffice. Such complaint shall be filed in
the same court, and at the same time at which a declaration in such 
cases is now required by law; and such action shall be matured in the
aame manner as at present. The defendant may plead the general
issue, or such other special plea or pleas as is now allowed by law; and
the rules now applicable in such cases, as to the bringing of such actions,
the maturing and trial of the same, shall remain the same, save as above 
modified. 
* Amended or supplemental bill; bill of reviver, and cross bill; proceedings thereon.
15. The plaintiff may of right amend his declaration or bill before 
h
d
f 
d
, d t . h '-- di h 
t e e en ant s appearance, an no wit stan mg sue appearance, a 
plaintiff in equity may, at any time in the vacation of the court wherein
the suit is pending, file in the clerk's office an amended or supple- 
mental bill, or bill of revivor; whereupon, the same proceedings may
be had as if leave to file it had been previously obtained in court, but
the court, on the motion of a defendant, made at the term to which
process to answer the same is returned executed on him, or, if it be
returnable to rules, at the first term after it is so returned, may dismiss
such amended or supplemental bill, or bill of revivor. 
16. When a cross bill is filed, the defendants in the first bill shall
answer it, before the defendants in the cross bill are compelled to an· 
awer that. 
A, to infant or insane defendant; power to appoint guardian ad {item, and make
him act; a, to hiB coats and charges. 
17. The proceedings in a suit wherein an infant or insane person is a
pa.rty, shall not he stay~d because of such infancy or insanity, but the 
court in which the suit is pending, or the clerk at rules, may appoint 
a guardian ad litem to any infant or insane defendant, whether such
defendant shall have been served with process or not. The court may 
compel the person so appointed, to act, but be shall not be liable for
costs, and shall be allowed his reasonable charges, which the party on 
whose motion he was appointed, shall pay.
Plea in abatement for misnomer not allowed; power to amend, by inserting right 
name. 
18. No plea. in abatement for a misnomer shall be allowed in any 
t
. b . h . b t ti th' . . Id 
ao ion, ut m a case w erem, u or 18 section, a misnomer wou
have been plea.dable in abatement, the declaration may, on the defen-
dant's motion, and on affidavit of the right name, be amended by in-
aerting the right name. 
What defecu can be taken advantage of, only by plea in abatement.
19. In other cases, a. defendant, on whom the process summoning 
him to answer appears to have been served, shall not take advantage~
of any defect in the writ or return, or any variance in the writ from: 
the declaration, unless the same be pleaded in abatement. 
day, return him a non-resident; whereupon, if the court from which
such processissued havejurisdiction of the cage only on the ground of
such defendant's residence in such county or corporation, the suit shall
abate as to him. 
General rules as to immaterial allcgatiom. 
8. It shall not. be necessary in any declaration or other pleading to
set forth the place in which any contract was made, or act done, unless
when, from the nature of the case, the place is material or traversable,
and then the allegation may be as to a deed, note or other writing
bearing date at any place, that it was made at such place, or as to any
other act, according to the fact, without averring or suggesting that it
was at or in the county or corporation in which the action is brought,
unless it was in fact therein. 
9. It shall not be necessary, in any action, to aver that the cause of
action arose, or that the matter is within the jurisdiction of the court,
or to make profert of any deed, letters testamentary, or commission of
administration; but a defendant may have oyer in like manner as if 
profert were made.
10. All allegations which are not traversable, and which the party 
Id b · d b · d 1 l h
oou not e reqmre to prove, may e omitte , un ess w ien t ey are 
required for the right understanding of allegations that are material. 
Of the declaration; not to ahate for want of form; what averments ma~ be
omitted. 
11. No action shall abate for want of form, where the declaration
sets forth sufficient matter of substance for the court to proceed upon
the merits of the cause. 
12. In actions of trespass, general averments that the defendant
committed other wrongs, and that the acts charged were done with
force and arms, and against the peace, may be omitted; and the plain·
tiff may prove all that he could have done if such a.verments had been
inserted in the declaration. 
When account must be Ji led with declaration.
13. In every action of a.ssumpsit the plaintiff shall ~le with his de· 
olaration an account stating distinctly the several items of his claim,
unless it be plainly described in the declaration. 
Declaration on policy of· insurance.
14. Hereafter no particular form of declaration shall be necessary in 
an action upon a policy of insurance, but it shall be sufficient for the
plaintiff to file a complaint, in writing, at common law, setting forth
the grounds of his action and the relief prayed for, and filing there­
with the original policy, or a sworn copy thereof, upon which his action
is brought, and the loss or death relied upon as the ground of his re­
covery, and that he has performed all the conditions of said policy and
violated none of its prohibitions; and in such complaint it shall not be
necessary to set forth every condition or proviso of said policy, nor to
aver observance. of or compliance therewith seriatim, but a. general 
averment to that ~ffect shall suffice. Such complaint shall be filed in
the same court, and at the same time at which a declaration in such
cases is now required by law; and such action shall be matured in the
same manner as at present. The defendant may plead the general 
issue, or such other special plea or pleas as is now allowed by law; and
the rules now applicable in such cases, as to the bringing of such actions,
the maturing and trial of the same, shall remain the same, save as above 
modified. 
* Amended or supplemental bill; bill of revivor, and cross bill; proceedings there<m.
15. The plaintiff may of right amend his declaration or bill before 
h d
" d ' d t "th t di h 
t e eren ant. s appearance, an no wi s an mg sue appearance, a
plaintiff in equity may, at any time in the vacation of the court wherein
the suit is pending, file in the clerk's office an amended or supple·
mental bill, or bill of revivor; whereupon, the same proceedings may
be had as if leave to file it had been previously obtained in court, but
the court, on the motion of a defendant, made at the term to which
process to answer the same is returned executed on him, or, if it be
returnable to rules, at the first term after it is so returned, may dismiss
such amended or supplemental bill, or bill of revivor. 
16. When a cross bill is filed, the defendants in the first billshall
answer it, before the defendants in the cross bill are compelled to an-1 
swer that. 
A, to inf ant or in&ane defendant; power to appoint guardian ad litem, and make
him act; (U to hu C08'8 and chargu. 
17. The proceedings in a suit wherein an infant or insane person is a
party, shall not be stayed because of such infancy or insanity, but the 
court in which the suit is pending, or the clerk at rules, may appoint:
a guardian ad litem to any infant or insane defendant, whether such
defendant shall have been served with process or not. The court may 
compel the person so appointed, to act, but he shall not be liable for
costs, and shall be allowed his reasonable charges, which the party on 
whose motion he was appointed, shall pay.
Plea in abatement. for munomer not allowed; power to amend, by iMerting right 
name. 
18. No plea in abatement for a misnomer shall be allowed in any
. b . h . b t "" th" . . Id 
action, ut m a case w erem, u tor is section, a misnomer wou
have been pleadable in abatement, the declaration may, on the defen-
dant's motion, and on affidavit of the right name, be amended by in-
serting the right name. 
What defects can be taken advantage of, only by plea in abatement. 
19. In other cases, a defendant, on whom the process summoning
him to answer appears to have been served, shall not take advantage~ 
of any defect in the writ or return, or any variance in the writ from:
the declaration, unless the same be pleaded in abatement. 
20. Where the declaration or bill shows on its face proper matter for
b ' . di . f h t . ~ f h . . di 
t e JUrl8 iction o t e cour , no exception ror want o sue JUrlS lC· 
it be taken by plea in abatement, and the
plea shall not be received after the defendant has demurred, pleaded
in bar, or answered to the declaration or bill, nor after a rule to plead, 
conditional judgment or decree nisi. 
What must be stated in plea in abatement/or non-joinder.
21. No plea in abatement, for the non-joinder of any person as a co- 
defendant, shall be allowed in any action, unless it be stated in the
plea that such person is a resident of this state, and unless the place of 
residence of such person be stated with convenient certainty in an affi.
davit verifying the plea. 
When issue on plea in abatement for non-joinder, will be found agaimt defendant.
,22. If a defendant plesd in abatement that any other persons ought 
to be jointly sued, and at the trial of an issue joined on such plea, it
appear that the action could not, by reason of chapter one hundred 
and forty, or chapter one hundred and forty-six, be maintained against
such other persons, or any of them, such issue shall be found against 
the defendant so pleading. 
After such plea, how declaration may be amended; 'if only part of defendant,
be liable, h.ow judgment is to be entered. 
23. After such plea in abatement, the plai.nUff, without proceeding
to trial upon an issue thereon, may amend his declaration, and make
the persons named in such plea as joint contractors, defendants in the
case with the original defendants, and cause process to be served upon
the new defendants; and if it appear by the subsequent pleadings in
the action, or at the trial thereof, that all the original defendants are
liable, but that one or more of the other persons named in such plea
are not liable, the plaintiff shall be entitled to judgment, or to verdict
and judgment, as the case may be, against the defendants who appear
liable; and such as are not liable 'shall have judgment and recover
costs as against the plaintiff, who shall be allowed the same as costs
against the defendants who so pleaded. 
Defendant may plead several matters. 
24. The defendant in any action may plead as many several matters,
whether of law or fact, as he shall think necessary.* 
Unneccssory to use alll'gation ef "actionem non," or "precludi non," or pra.ver 
of judgment. 
~5. In a. plea, replication or subsequent pleading, intended to be 
pleaded in bar, or in maintenance of the action, it shall not be neces­ 
sary to use any allegation of "actionem non," or" precludi non," or te
the like effect, or any prayer of judgment. 
Protestation may be omitted. 
26. No party shall be prejudiced by omitting a protestation in any
lead
. 
p mg. 
How traverses shall conclude; aJJ to pleading over to the inducement.
27. All special traverses, or traverses with an inducement of affirm&- 
tive matter, shall conclude to the country. But this regulation shall
not preclude the opposite party from pleading over to the inducement
when the traverse is immaterial. 
When plaintiff may proceed witlwut joinder in demurrer or aimiliter.
28. When the plaintiff takes issue on the defendant's pleading, or 
traverses the same or demurs, so that the defendant is not let in to 
allege any new matter, the plaintiff may, without giving a rule to re-
join, proceed es if ther~ were a similiter or joinder in demurrer. 
How plea shall commence.
29. No formal defence shall be required in a plea; it shall commence 
as follows: !'the defendant says that." 
After one plea, how arwther may commence.
30. It shall not be necessary to state in a second or other plea, thai 
it is pleaded by leave of the court, or according to the form of the
atatute, or to that effect. 
Form of demurrer or joinde.r in demurrer.
31. The form of a demurrer or joinder in demurrer shall be: "the 
defendant (or plaintiff) says that the declaration (or plea, &c.) is not
(or is) sufflcientIn law."* 
What defects not to be regarded on demurrers.
32. On a demurrer (unless it be ·to a plea in abatement) the court 
ahall not regard any defect or imperfection in the declaration or plead-
ings, whether it has been heretofore deemed miapleading or insufficient
pleading or not, unless there be omitted something so essential to the 
action or defence, that judgment, according to law and the very rigM:
of the cause, cannot be given. No demurrer shall be sustained, be- 
cause of the omission in any pleading of the wordB, "this he is ready 
to verify," or, uthis he is ready to verify by the record," or, "u ap-
pears by the record;" but the opposite party may be excused from re- 
plying, demurring, or otherwise answering to any pleading which ought~
to have, but has not, such words therein, until they be inserted. 
33. A plaintiff in equity may have any plea or demurrer set down to 
be argued. If the same be overruled, no other plea or demurrer shall
afterwards be received, but there shall be a rule upon the defendant to 
answer the bill.
34. A plaintiff in equity may take issue upon a plea, and have such 
• • d . f l d
issue tne by jury." I the pea be foun false, he shall have the same 
advantages as if it had been so found by a verdict at law. 
When a11.&wer may be filed; not to delay the cause] proceedings on cxceptwn&
to answer . 
35. At any time before final decree, a defendant may be allowed to 
, 
file his answer, but a cause shall not be sent to the rules or continued.
because an answer is flled in it, unless good cause be shown therefor. 
36. When the plaintiff files exceptions to an answer, they shall be
set down to be argued. 
37. When exceptions to an answer have been sustained, if the de-
fendant put in a second answer, which is adjudged insufficient, he may 
be examined upon interrogatories, and committed until he answers
them. 
· Affidavit neceuary to plea in abatement, or plea of non e,t fa.ctum. 
38. No plea in abatement or plea of non est factum shall M received,
unless it be verified by oath.] 
Or where denial of handwriting.
39. Where a bill, declaration, or other pleading alleges that any per- 
son made, indorsed, assigned, or accepted any writing, no proof of the
handwriting of such person shall be required, unless the fact be denied
by an affidavit with the answer, plea, or other pleading which puts it 
in issue.
Or denial of partnership. 
40. Where plaintiffs or defendants sue or are sued as partners, and
their names are set forth in the declaration or bill, or where plaintiffs
or defendants sue or are sued as a corporation, it shall not be necessary 
to prove the fact of the partnership or incorporation, unless with the
pleading which puts the matter in issue, there be an affidavit denying
such partnership or incorporation. · 
Pleadings may be swom to before clerk; a;idavit of belief sufficient.
41. Any bill, answer, or other pleading to be filed in any court, may 
be sworn to before the clerk thereof; and where an affidavit is required
in support of.any pleading, it shall be sufficient if the affiant. swear
that he believes it to be true. 
Judgment M deere« by confeui.on, or in the ojfice by default. 
42. In any suit a defendant may confess a judgment or decree in the
I 
k' ffi l' h , . al d . h 1 . 'ff b 
<J er s o ce, tor so muc prmc1p an mterest as t e p ainti may e
willing to accept a judgment or decree for. The same shall be entered 
of record by the clerk in the order or minute book, and be as final and
as valid as if entered in court on the day of such confession, except 
merely that the court shall have such control over it as is given by the
fifty-second section of this chapter.* 
43. If a defendant who appears, fail to plead, answer or demur to the
d
1 
. b·11 1 b . hi lead lfh fail
ec aration or 1 , a ru e may e given im top eaa. e a1 to ap- 
pear at the rule day at which the process against him is returned exe-
outed, or, when it is returnable to a term, at the first rule day after it 
is so returned, the plaintiff', if he has filed his declaration or bill, may
have a conditional judgment or decree nisi as to such defendant. No
service of such decree nisi or conditional judgment shall be necessary.
But at the next rule day after the same is entered, if the defendant
continue in default, or at the e!J>iration of any rule upon him with
which he fails to comply, if the Le be in equity, the bill shall be en­
tered as taken for confessed as to him, and if it be at law, judgment
shall be entered against him, with an order for the damages to be en­
quired into when such enquiry is proper. 
In what cases enquiry of damages unneces,ary. 
44. There need be no such enquiry, in an action of debt, upon any
bond or other writing for the payment of money, or against the drawer
or endorser of a bill of exchange or negotiable note, or in an action of 
-debt, scire faeias, upon a judgment or recognizance, or in any action of
assumpsit: provided, the plaintiff shall serve the defendant, at the 
same time and in the same manner that the process or summons to
commence the suit or action is served, with a copy ( certified by the 
clerk of the court in which the suit or action is brought) of the account
on which the suit or action is brought, stating distinctly the several
items of his claim, and the aggregate amount thereof, and the time
from which he claims interest thereon, and the credits, if any, to which
the defendant may be entitled thereon. But this act shall not ap-
ply to any action of assumpsit in which the process is served by pub-
lication. 
How judgment in the office may be set aside M become final; if issue joined,
when it may be tried; if final judgment, its effect a, a lien. 
45. Every judgment entered in the office in a case wherein there is 
d
"' . f d d . d' ' . 
no or er tor an enquiry o amages, an every non-sutt-or rsrmasion 
entered therein, shall, if not previously set aside, become a final judg- 
ment, if the case be in ·a circuit court, of the last day of the next term,
or the fifteenth day thereof ( whichever shall happen first}, and if it be- 
in a county or corporation court of the last day of the next term, de-
signated for the trial of civil cases in which juries are required, and
have the same effect by way of lien or otherwise as a judgment ren- 
h h . d " .
dered in the court at sue term. Every sue JU gment tor ~ny plain- 
tiff shall be for the principal sum due, with interest thereon from the
time it became payable (or commenced bearing interest) till payment,
unless it be in such action as is mentioned in the eleventh section of 
chapter one hundred and forty-one, in which case it shall be according 
h .
to t at section. 
46. If a defendant, against whom judgment is entered in the office,
shall, before it becomes final, appear and plead to issue, it shall be set
aside, unless an order for enquiry of damages has been executed; in 
which case it shall not be set aside without good cause. Any such issue
may be tried at the same term, unless the defendant show good cause 
for a continuance. 
After bill fAken for conj used, proceeding by attachment, or to have answers on
interrogatories. 
47. Although a bill be taken for coxessed as to any defendant, the 
1 . •tr h h h' d f h. to
p amt1 may ave an attac ment aga st im, or an or er or im 
be. 'brought in to answer interrogatories. No plea or demurrer shall be
received after such attachment, unless by order of court, upon motion. 
48. If a defendant, after process of contempt, put in an answer which 
• di d d · m · t th 1 · ·w · h th b t
LS a uu ge msu cien , e p amt! may go on wit e su sequen
process of contempt as if no answer had been filed. 
When a suit in equity may be aet for hearing. 
49. A plaintiff in equity may, at or after the rule day at which the
b.11 . tak f, fi d d c d hi h hi 
1 is en or con esse as to any eren ant, or at w re rs answer
is filed, have the cause set for hearing as to such defendant; and it
may be so set for hearing on\he answer, or upon a general replication
thereto, as the plaintiff may prefer. If four months elapse after the 
answer of a defendant is filed, without the case being so set, and with- 
• b ' fil d hi h h h "
out exceptions emg e to is answer, e may ave t e case set ror 
h . to hi If.
earmg as nnse . 
~ hen pl,aintiff may proceed to judgment against part of the def 'endanu.
50. Where, in an action against, two or more defendants, the process 
• d f h h 1 . . a' d . d 
is serve on part o t em, t e p aintiff may procee to JU gment as to
any so served, and either discontinue it as to the others, or from time
to time, as the process is served as to such others, proceed to judgment
as to them until judgments be obtained against all. 
When suit in equity may be heard as to part of defendants] how plaintiff com-
pelled to mature his cause, or have it dismissed. 
51. If a. suit in equity be set for hearing aa to any defendant, it shall
be heard as to him, unless his interests be so connected with those of 
other defendants in the suit that it would be improper to decide upon
their interests separately; and though there be such connection, a de­
fendant as to whom the case has been set for hearing, may have an order
upon the plaintiff' to use due diligence to mature the cause for hearing
as to the other defendants, and unless it be so matured within such
time as the court may deem reasonable, shall be entitled to a hearing
or dismission of it as to him; and, in any case where full justice cannot
be done, or the whole controversy ended without the presence of new 
p&l"ties to the suit, the court, by order or decree, may direct the clerk 
to issue the proper process against such new parties, and upon the 
maturing of the case as to them, proceed to make such orders or de-
crees as would have been proper if the new parties had been made
parties at the commencement of the suit. 
Control of court over proceedings in <tflice.
52. The court shall have control over all proceedings in the office 
d
· th di . I . dl . d 
unng e prece ng vacation. t may reinstate any cause iscontinue
during such vacation, set aside any of the said proceedings, or correct 
any mistake therein, and make such order concerning the same as may
be just. 
Decrees in chancery causes, when entered in vacatu»i; former decree» validated.
53. Chancery causes may hereafter, by consent of parties, given ln 
open court and entered of record, be submitted to the judge of the
court in which such cause is pending for decision or decree, to be made
therein in vacation, and all decrees so ma.de hereafter and entered by
the clerk in vacation, shall be deemed and taken to be as valid 88 though
they had been made and entered in open court. 
54. Decrees heretofore rendered in vacation by consent, in the man-
ner mentioned in the foregoing section, shall be, and are hereby de-
clared to be, as valid 88 though they had been made and entered in
open court: provided, the parties against whom any such decree shall
have heretofore been made, shall, either in the appellate court or the
court below, enter of record a. waiver of all objection to the validity of
suoh decree, on account of its having been made and entered in vacation. 
I. In any action of lebt, the defendant may plead payment of the
debt (or of so much as is due by the condition) beforeaction brought.* 
Defendant may pay into court a sum on account of matter of 8Uit, and pleml that
plaintiff i8 not entitled to more; proceedings thereupon. 
2. In any personal action, the defendant may pay into court, to the
clerk, a sum of money on account of what is claimed, or by way of 
compensation or amends and plead that he is not indebted to the
plaintiff ( or that the plaintiff' has not sustained damages) to a greater 
amount than the said sum.
3. The plaintiff may accept the said sum either in full satisfaction, 
and then have judgment for his costs, or in part satisfaction, and reply 
to the plea generally, and if issue thereon be found for the defendant,
judgment shall be given for the defendant, and be shall recover his
costs. 
Payment or aetojf may b« allowed, if ducribed in plea or account; a& to aettitcg
off, when claim is againat seaeral, debt to one of them. 
4. In a suit for any debt, the defendant may at the trial prove, and
have allowed against such debt, any payment or setoff which is so de­
scribed in his plea, or in an account filed therewith, as to give the
plaintiff notice of its nature, but not otherwise. Although the claim
of the plaintiff be jointly against several persons, and the setoff is of
a debt not to all but only to a part of them, this section shall extend
to such setoff if it appear that the persons, against whom such claim
is, stand in the relation of principal and surety, and the person entitled • 
to the setoft' is the principal.j 
Special plea of ,etoff; proceeding, thereupon; as to tffect of thu chapter on 
voluntary bonds. 
5. In any action on a contract, the defendant may file a plea, alleg- 
ing any such failure in the consideration of the contract, or fraud in
its procurement, or any such breach of any warranty to him of the r-~~ 
title 01' the soundness of personal property, for the price or value rtnd., 
whereof he entered into the contract, or any other matter as would g 
entitle him either to recover damages at law from the plaintiff, or the a 
When plea qf setoff goes only to part of demand.
8. If the defendant file a plea or account of setoff, which covers or 
applies to part of the plaintiff's demand, judgment may be forthwith
rendered for the part not controverted, and the costs accrued until the 
filing of the plea or account, and the case shall be proceeded with for
the residue, 88 if the part for which judgment was rendered had not
been included therein. And if, in addition to such plea or account,
th,e defendant plead some other plea, going to the whole or residue of
the demand, the ease shall not be continued as to the part not contro­
verted by the plea or account of setoffs, unless the additional plea be
also verified by affidavit, or good cause be shown for such continuance. 
Defendant claiming a aetoff put on the footing of a plo.inti.ff.
9. A defendant who files a plea or account under this chapter, shall 
b
d
d 
d
h
h
1
. iff . 1· f . . . I 4 
person un er w om t e p aintt claims, or to re ie m equi ty, m who e 6 
. t . th bl' . f h if h b 7Gratt.,297. 
or m part, against e o igation o t e contract; or 1 t e contract e
by deed, alleging any such matter arising under the contract, existing it 
before its execution, or any such mistake therein, or in the execution
thereof, or any such other matter as would entitle him to such relief 
in equity; and in either case alleging the amount to which he is enti-
tled by reason of the matters contained in the plea. Every such plea.
shall be verified by affidavit. 
6. If a defendant, entitled to such plea as is mentioned in the pre-
ceding section, shall not tender it, or though he tender it, if it be re- 
jected for not being offered in due time, he shall not be precluded
from such relief in equity 88 he would have been entitled to if the pre- 
ceding section had not been enacted. If any such plea be rejected by
the court as bad, or adjudged insufficient on demurrer, or if, when issue
in fact is joined thereon, such issue be found against the defendant, he
shall be barred of relief in equity upon the matters alleged in the plea,
unless upon such ground as would entitle a party to relief against a. 
judgment in other cases. Every such issue in fa.ct shall be upon a gene-
ral replication that the plea is not true; and the plaintiff may give in
evidence, on such issue, any matter which could be given in evidence
under a. special replication if such replication were allowed. 
7. Nothing in this chapter shall impair or affect the obligation of any
bond or other deed deemed voluntary in law upon any party thereto, 
or his represe~tatives. ' 
h b
h
. . h I . . ff. ( t th ti 
e eeme to ave roug tan action against t e p ainti , a e ime
of filing the same.) for the matters mentioned in such plea or account, 
and the plaintiff shall not, after the plea or account is filed, dismiss his
case without tho defendant's consent, but shall be entitled to every
ground of defence against the defendant's demand, of which he might
h 
'l d hi If b . l I h . ' t' 
ave avai e rmse y any spec1a p ea or ot erwrse, m any sc ion 
brought against him upon the same demand. On the trial of the issue
in such case, the jury shall ascertain the amount to which the defen­
dant is entitled, and apply it as a setoff against the plaintiff's demand,
and, if the said amount be more than the plaintiff' is entitled to, shall 
ascertain the amount of the excess, and fix the time from which in­
terest is to be computed on the same, or any part thereof. Judgment,
in such case, shall be for the defendant against the plaintiff for said
excess, with such interest from the said time till payment. 
OF THE DEATH OR CHA.NOE OF PARTIES, AND THE DISCONTINUANCE OF
CAUSES NOT PROSECUTED. 
&c. 
CHAPTER CLXIX. 
I, When death or other fact occurs after
verdict, and before judgment. 
2. Where it occurs aa to any of eeveral 
plainWl'B or defendant.a in a suit, the
ca1111e of which survives for or agahult
others. 
8. Where it oooun after appeal, writ of
error or supereedeu. 
f, For and against whom ecire faciaa may
beeued out; wheneuitmaybe revived 
on motion; when new party may have
a continuance, or amend pleadings. 
When death or other fact occurs after verdict, and before judgment . 
• 
&c.
6. Scire faciaa mar be iaeued in vacation ; 
1. Where a party dies, or becomes convict of felony, or insane, or a
female party marries, or the powers of a party who is a personal repre­
sentative or committee cease, if such fact occur after verdict, judgment
may be entered as if it had not occurred. 
Where it occurs as to any of several plaintiffs or defendants in a suit, the ca1ae 
of which survives for or agaiMt others.
2. Where such fact occurs in any stage of a cause, whether it be in a 
court of original or appellate jurisdiction, if it occur as to any of several
plaintiffs or defendants, the suit may proceed for or against the others, 
if the cause of suit survive to or against them. 
order ot revival may be entered at
rules. 
8. Where party whoee powers 88 committee
or repl'elleDtative oeaee, ie defendant, 
how suit ie P,roceeded in. 
7. When suit will be dillcontinued, unla.
revived. 
8. Where for seven yeara no proceeding in
a case but to continue it, the court mar
strike it from the docket. 
9. Dooree, where one partr dies or marries. 
10. Right of absent parties to reheariJls 
within flve years. 
Where it occurs after appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas,
3. If, in any ca.se of appeal, writ of error, or supersedea.s, which is 
now or may hereafter be pending, there be at any time in an appellate
court, suggested or relied on in abatement, the death of a party, or any
other fact, which, if it had occurred after verdict in an action, would
not have prevented judgment being entered, (as if it had not occurred.]
the appellate court may, in its discretion, enter judgment or decree in
such case as if the said fact had not have occurred. 
4. In any stage of any case, a scire fseias may be sued out for or 
· t h · f h · , . l' 
agams t e committee o any pa.rty w o is msane or convict, or ror or
against a person before insane, the powers of whose committee have
cease,d; or for or against the husband of any such female pa.rty, or for 
or against the personal representative of the decedent who or whose
personal representative w~ a party, or for or against the heirs or devi- 
sees of a decedent who was a party, to show cause why the suit should
not proceed in the name of him or them; or where the party dying, or
whose powers cease, or such insane person, convict, or female is plain· 
tiff or appellant, the person or persons for whom such scire faclas might
be sued out may, without notice or scire facias, move that the suit pro-
ceed in his or their name. In the former case, after service of the scire
faeias, or in the latter case, on such motion, if no sufficient cause be 
shown against it, an order shall be entered that the suit proceed so- 
cording to such scire facias or motion. Any such new party ( except
in an appellate court) may have a continuance of the case at the term 
at which such order is entered; and the court may allow him to plead
anew or amend tAe pleadings so far as it deems reasonable, but in other 
respects the case shall proceed to final judgment or decree for or against
him, in like manner as if the case had been pending for or against him
before such scire facias or motion. 
&ire facias may be issued in vacation; order of revival may be entered at rules,
5. The clerk of the court in which the case is, may issue such seire 
faeias at any time, and an order may be entered at rules for a case to: 
proceed in the name of the proper party, although the case be on the
court docket. 
Where party whose powers as committee or representative cease, is defenda.nt, Iuno 
suit is proceeded in. 
6. ,vhere the party whose powers cease, is defendant, the plaintiff
may continue his suit against him to final judgment or decree; but he 
shall not, at law, proceed in the same action against such defendant
And his successor; nor shall he, in equity, proceed against both upon
his previous bill, unless an order, that the suit proceed against the
former party, be entered at the first term after service of a scire facias
for or against such successor. 
When suit will be discontinued, unlus revived. 
7. If the committee, husband, personal representative, heirs or devi-
f h
1 
. . ff 11 h t f h d d
sees, o t. e p ainti or appe ant w o was a par y, or o t e ece ent 
whose personal representative was plaintiff or appellant, shall not make
such motion, or apply for such scire facias, at or before the second term 
of the court next after that at which there may have been a sugges-
tion on the record of the fact making such scire facias or motion pro-
per, the suit of such plain ti.ff or appellant shall be discontinued, unless
good cause be shown to the contrary. 
8. Any court in which is pending any case wherein for more than
seven years there has been no order or proceeding but to continue it,
may, in its discretion, order such case to be struck from its docket; 
and it shall thereby be discontinued. A court making such order me.y
direct it to be published.* Any such case may be reinstated, on motion,
within one year from the date of such order, but not after. 
Decree, where one party dies or marri.u. 
9. When, in any suit in equity, the number of parties exceeds thirty,
and any one of said parties jointly interested with others in any ques­
tion arising therein shall die or marry, the court may nevertheless pro­
ceed, if in its opinion all classes of interests in the case are represented,
and the interests of no one will be prejudiced by the trial of the cause,
to render a. decree in such suit as if such person were alive or had not
married; decreeing to the heirs at law, distributees or representatives
of such person, (as the case may require,) such interest as such person
would have been entitled to had such person been alive, or as if such
person had not married during the pendency of this suit. 
Right o.! absent parties to rehearing within five years. 
10. The provisions of the sixteenth section of chapter one hundred
d . . h 11 I d d d h' 
an sixty-six, s a app y to ecrees entere un er t 1s act. 
CHAPTER CLXX. 
or THE REIIOVAL 01' CAUSES PENDING IN ONB COURT TO ANOTHl:B.t 
&c. ,&c. 
l. l Power of county, corporation or cireuit 3, When nit ii remoTed, clerk's duty; 
2. I courts to remoTe ca1111e11. p1'008edinp in court to whioh it ia re­ 
moTed ; ooeta attending removal. 
Power of C()Unty, corporation or circuit couru to remov, cmuea.t
1. On the motion of any party to a suit, motion, or other proceed­ 
ing, in a county or corporation court, who desires to remove the same
to the circuit court having jurisdiction over said county or corporation,
or to any other county or circuit court, the court may, after twenty
days' notice to the adverse party, order such removal; or whenever, in
the opinion of the county court, or judge thereof, it is improper for 
said judge to try the same, the said county court may order such re- 
moval; or, upon like motion, the said circuit court, or the judge thereof
in vacation, after twenty days' notice to the adverse party, may orders 
such removal to the said circuit court.
2. On the motion of any party to a suit in a circuit court, the said 
When BUit is removed, clerk' a duty; proceedings in court to which it i, removed;
coata attending removal. 
3. When any suit is ordered to be removed, under this chapter, the
clerk of the court from which, shall transmit to the clerk of the court
to which, it is removed, the original papers therein, with the copies of
all rules and orders made, and a statement of the costs incurred by
each party therein; whereupon, the case shall be proceeded in, heard
and determined by the court to which it is removed, as if it bad been
brought, and the previous proceedings had, in said court. The costs
attending such removal shall be charged as may be thought just by the
court from which, or if it make no order on the fUbject, by the court 
to which, the case is removed. 
or TBB APPOINTKBNT or COKKISSIONBBS IN CHANCERY, TIIB BBl'BUNCB 01'
ACCOUNTS TO TIIBK, AND TBB PBOCBEDINGS TBBRBUPON. 
&c. Su.
1 
} ODute to appoint and remoft OOIDDWI- 6. When piblioation equiT&lent to penooal
• aionen; numberofthem; oommimion- llen'ice. 
s. en to complete b1Ulinem on band. 6. Order in Taoation ~ aooount. 
I. Power to appoint in vacation. 'I. Commiuionen may uk for in1tructlona.
. 4. .Account., how referred; oommilafoner'1 8. J Prooedinp of oomrntwtoner; bfa report; 
dut}". t. tmeeptfona thereto.
· 10. When cauae ii heard on report. 
Couru to appoint and remove commil&ioner1; number of them,- eommisaionera to
complete buaineu on hand. 
I. Any commissioner in chancery may complete the execution of any
order or decree in his hands, when this chapter takes effect, unless the 
court otherwise direct.
2. Each court shall, from time to time, appoint commissioners in 
chancery, or for stating accounts, who shall be removable at pleasure.
There shall not be more than three such commissioners in office at the 
same time for the same court, except that the chancery court of the
city of Richmond may have five such commissioners in office at the 
same time. 
d
. b d h . . h 
court may or er 1t to e remove to any ot er circuit court, or to t e
court of the county or corporation for which the former circuit court
is held. The judge of said court, in vacation, may make such order, 
after reasonable notice to the adverse party. The order of removal
may be made by the court or judge, without motion or notice, when
the judge is so situated as to render it improper, in his judgment, for
him to decide or preside at the trial of the cause. 
CHAPTER CLXXI.* 
4. Accounts to be ta.ken in any case, shall be referred to a oommis- 
. . ted 1 h . . te d h
stoner so appom , un ess t e parties m reste agree, or t e court 
shall deem it proper, that they be referred to some other person.
Every commissioner shall examine, and report upon, such accounts and 
matters as may be referred to him by any court. 
When publication equivalent fAJ personal service.
5. The court ordering an account to be taken, may direct that notice 
of the time and place of taking it, be published once a week for four
successive weeks in some convenient newspaper, and that such publi­
cation shall be equivalent to personal service of such notice on the
parties, or any of them. 
Order in vacation directing account.
6. Any circuit judge may, in vacation, direct any proper account to 
be taken in a cause in a court of his circuit, and on the application of
any party interested, may substitute another commissioner for one
named in a decree already entered in such cause, or refer any such
cause to some person other than a commissioner, and such person, in
respect to such cause, shall have all the powers of a eommissioner. 
Commissioner« may aJJk for instructions.
7. A commissioner who doubts as to any point which arises before 
him, in taking an account to be returned to a circuit court, may, in
writing, submit the point to such court, or the judge thereof, who may 
instruct him thereon. 
Proceedings of commissioner; his report; exceptions thereto.
8. A commissioner may adjourn his proceedings from time to time, 
after the day to which notice was given, without any new notice, until
his report is completed; and when it is completed, it may be filed in 
the clerk's office at any time thereafter. 
9. With his repert, the commissioner shall return the decrees, or-
ders and notices under which he acted. lie shall not copy in his ac- 
count or report any paper; and if there has been a previous account,
he shall not copy it into his; but, taking it as the basis of his, correct
the errors 11.~d supply the defects thereof by an additional statement,
Every thing improperly copied into a commissioner's account shall be
expunged at his costs, on the application of either party; and if on
account of his negligence or misconduct a report be recommitted, he 
shall bear the costs o~casior,ed thereby. 
10. A cause may be heard upon a commissioner's report after it shall
b
d d d 
if h b l
have een returne ten ays; an i t e report e unr er an order re- 
committing a. former report, the cause may be heard without waiting
the said ten days.* 
&c. 
1. ( ~ of the l~ture; and Big· 
~ S nature of governor or Jndges. 
'4. } Copies of certain deeds evidence; record
5. and papers in public ofll.ces.
6. Copies filed in one, may be filed in an­ 
other suit; 
7. Whencourtmaydeliveroriginala, retain­ 
ing a co:fY· 
8. ~ When an how court may have records
9. bound or copied; when credit given 
l
. How contents may be proved before com· 
10. thereto.
ll. l When records are lost or illegible, how 
12. \ new record ill made. 
}t missioner ; his journal and evidence
returned to clerk's ofll.ce. 
11'. Records and ofll.oe boob of other states,
16. orof United8tatee, howauthenticat.ed.
17. Foreign deeds, powers of attorney, poli- 
cies of insurance, &c. 
f :: { Competency of witneese11.
20. Colored ~noDII competent witne111e11. 
21. Parties mtereat.ed may give their evi­
dence by deposition, as well 811 ore 
tenns.
22. Competency of hU11bandll and wives; at­ 
teating witnelllle8 to willll, deeds, &o.;
where one party i11 dead, or under dis­ 
ability, or U1 a personal repreeentative,
curator or committee. 
( Where party retusee to u.tify, roles
:: ) af,plicable to cro111-examination to ap- 
25. A!~ allowed to testify in all proeeon­
tions for assault and battery; and un­ 
lawful trespallll. 
CHAPTER CLXXII. 
OF EVIDENCE. 
&c. 
26. Bummons for witneB11, bow issued, and
to whom direct.ad; how witneeses com­
pelled to teetify. 
'1:1. How subpcene duees t.ecum illillaued.
28. Ho~:9 f~l to attend msy be 
29
} wf tneaa atte~ng and refusing to tellti- 
30 • fy or produce writing, may be commit-
• t.ed to jail; who to administer oath. 
81. Of interpreters. 
32.} 
33. Of afll.dnvita and depositions. 
34. 
36. How oommiuion ill iuued to take depo­
sitions out of thill state : to whom di­ 
rect.ad; how authenticated.
88. Notice to be given of taking depo&itiona; 
in what 11tage of a suit in equity depo­
sition may 6e returned and read, 
87. Under what circumatanoes deposition
may be read at law. 
}
When party taking deposition does not 
38. read it, other party may; bow deposi-
89. tion may be taken where appeel or su- 
peraedeu lies.
40. How teetimony may be perpetuat.ed. 
41. ( Allowance to witne111 for attendanoe;
42. how entered and paid ; taxlltion of 
43. eosts. 
::: 2 Compelling party to discover or produce
46• 
S a document. 
!~: ( Effect of party's absence for seven years.
49. Excluding evidence for want of parti- 
culars of claim or defence.
60. Evidence in mitigation of damages. 
Proceedings of the legislature, and signature of governor or judges.
I. Acts and resolutions of the general assembly,' though local or pri- 
b
. . id . h b . ' 11 l d d d 
vate, may e given m evi ence wit out emg specie. y p ea e ; an
an appellate court shall take judicial notice of such as appear to have
been relied on in the court below. t 
2. Copies of the journal of either house of the assem bly, printed as 
'b d i h . h h h 11 b ' d id ~ 
prescn e mt e nineteent c apter, s a e receive as evi ence ror
any purpose for which the original journal could be received. 
3. All courts and officers shall take notice of the signature of any of
the judges, or of the governor of this state, to any judicial or official
document. 
4. Copies of deeds, acknowledged or proved and certified according
to the act of the thirteenth December, seventeen hundred and ninety- 
two, and placed upon record after the expiration of two years, the
period prescribed by the act of the twenty-fifth December, seventeen
hundred and ninety-four, but before the passage of the act of seventh
February, eighteen hundred and fourteen, shall be received in evidence,
and have all the force and effect of copies of deeds recorded within two
years, the period prescribed as aforesaid: provided, that nothing in this
act shall be construed so as to affect the rights of creditors and subse­
quent purchasers without notice. 
5. A copy of any record or paper in the clerk's office of any court, or
m the office of the secretary of the commonwealth, treasurer, register,
or either auditor, attested by the officer in whose office the same is,
and a copy of any such record or paper in the office of the board of
public works, or the board of education, attested by the secretary or
clerk of such board, may be admitted as evidence in lieu of the original. 
And the certificate of the auditor of public accounts 'of the fact and
time of the return of any real estate as delinquent, or of the sale
thereof for taxes, shall be prima facie evidence of what is stated in
such certificate., Any such copy or certificate, purporting to be sealed, 
or sealed and signed, or signed alone, by any such officer, secretary, or
clerk, may be admitted as evidence without any proof of the seal or 
, , • 
signature, or of the official character of the person whose name is
signed to it. The certificate of the auditor of public accounts of the
payment or non-payment, at any time, of taxes on forfeited or delin­ 
quent lands or lots, or of their not having been entered on the books
of the commissioner of the revenue for the county or counties, cities or 
towns, or on the books of the assessor of the township or townships
wherein the same were chargeable with taxes, shall, in any suit in rela­
tion to such lands or lots, be prime. facie evidence of what is stated in
such certificate: provided it be filed with the papers of said suit at 
least twenty days before the first day of the term at which it is to b&
offered as evidence. When the certificate purports to be signed by
the said auditor, it may be admitted as evidence without proof of his
signature. 
Copiu filed in one, may be filed in anotl,,er auit.
6. Such a copy of any writing filed in a suit, may be filed in another­ 
suit on the same writing, and the defendant shall plead thereto as if
the original were filed. 
When court may deliver originau, retaining a copy. 
7. The court in the clerk's office whereof there is an original paper 
filed in a cause (although decided) may, for good cause, order it to be
delivered to any person, retaining in its stead a copy thereof, and may
make any order to prevent the improper use of the original. 
8. The court of any county may order any of the books or records in
the office of the surveyor of such county, and any court may order any 
of its own books or records to be bound or transcribed, and make & 
reasonable allowance therefor, which shall be chargeable to the county
or town when the order is by a county or corporation court, and in other 
cases be paid out of the treasury.* 
9. No such allowance shall be made for any transcript until commie-
sioners appointed for the purpose by the court shall have examined it
and written at the foot thereof a certificate of its correctness. Thence­
forth the same faith and credit shall be given to it that the book or re­
cord transcribed would have been entitled to. 
10. A court may have any of its books or records taken out of the
county or corporation to be bound. 
lV hen records are lost or illegible lune new record is made.
11. Where any book containing judgments, decrees or proceedings 
of a court is lost or illegible, and there can be again entered correctly,
by means of any writing, any matters which were in such book, such
court may cause its clerk to have such matters re-entered, and such
re-entries shall have the same effect as the original entries. For any
services of the clerk under this section, not rendered necessary by his
own neglect, the court shall allow him a reasonable compensation,
which shall be chargeable on the county or corporation. 
12. Where any such book, or any book containing the record of wills,
deeds or other papers, or where any paper filed in a clerk's office is lost
or illegible, the clerk in whose office such book or paper was, upon the
production to him of any original paper which was recorded in such
book, or of an attested copy of the record thereof, or of anything else
in such book, or of any paper so filed, shall, on application, record the
same anew. The record shall show whether it is made from an original
or a copy, and how the paper from which it was made was authenti-
cated or attested. Such record shall have, as far as may be, the same
effect that the record or paper for which it is substituted would have
had. 
How contents may be proved before commissioner; his journal and evidence re­
turned to clerk' a office. 
13. Any person desirous of proving the contents of any paper so
filed, or anything which was of record in any such book, may file with
a commissioner, to be appointed for this special purpose for each 
county and corporation having a circuit court, by the judge of said}~· 
0
• • 't' ta . th t f h d 
court, a petition m wn mg, s tmg e na ure o t e paper or recor ,
the contents of which he desires to prove, and what persons may be
Affected by such proof. Whereupon the commissioner shall 'appoint a
time and place for proceeding on the said petition, whereof reasonable 
notice shall be given to all parties named in said petition, or interested
in the proceeding, and to any others, who shall be known to the com­
missioner, or who shall claim to be so interested. If any such party inte­
rested be an infant, insane person, or married woman, the said commis­
sioner shall appoint a guardian ad litem to attend to the case on behalf 
of such party. If the commissioner appointed under this section shall be
interested in any case, the judge mny appoint a special commissioner to
act in that particular case. If any person who may be affected by the
proof be an infant, the commissioner shall appoint a guardian ad litem
to attend to the case on his behalf. 
14. The said commissioner shall, at the instance of any person inte­
rested, take, in writing, the evidence of all witnesses who may be pro­
duced before him, or whom he may think it necessary to examine.
He shall keep a. journal of his proceedings in each case, which he shall
return, with the evidence taken by him, or filed before him, with such
explanations and comments as he may deem necessary, to the circuit
court of the county or corporation in which the book or pa.per men­
tioned in the petition was at its next term; and the court shall make
such order in respect to the said book or paper, or anything therein, as
may be necessary to secure the benefits thereof to the parties interested,
or such other order as may be proper in the case. The provisions of
sections eight and ten of chapter one hundred and seventy-one shall
be applicable to such reports. The commissioner, for his services under
this and the la.st preceding section, shall be allowed the same fees that
are allowed to commissioners in chancery. 
Records and office books of other states or of United States, how authenticated. 
15. The records and judicial proceedings of any court of the United
States, or of any state, attested by the clerk thereof, with the seal of
the court annexed, if there be a seal, and certified by. the judge, chief
justice, or presiding magistrate of such court, to be attested in due 
form, shall have such faith and credit given to them in every court
within this state, a.s they have in the courts of the state, territory or
district whence the said records come. 
16 • ..A.11 records and exemplifications of office books kept in any pub-
lie office of the United States, or of a state, not appertaining to a court,
shall be evidence in any court or office in this state, if attested by the
keeper of the said records or books, and the seal of his office annexed,
if there be a seal, and certified by the presiding justice of the county 
or district in which such office is, or of the governor, the secretary of
state, the chancellor, or the keeper of the great seal of the state, to be
attested in due form, and by the proper officer; such certificate, if
given by the presiding justice of a. court, shall be authenticated by the
clerk or prothonotary of the said court, who shall certify under his
hand and the seal of his office, that the said presiding justice is duly
commissioned and qualified; or if said certificate be given by the
governor, the secretary of state, the chancellor or keeper of tho great
seal, it shall be under the great seal of the state in which the said cer­
tificate is made. 
17. Every deed or power of attorney executed out of this state, the
acknowledgment or proof of which is certified so that it might be ad-
mitted to record under chapter one hundred and seventeen, and every
policy of insurance, charter party, copy from a record in any foreign~ 
court, or from a register of births and marriages in any place out of the
United States, if it be attested by a notary public, under his seal of 
office, that such policy, charter party, record or register was made, en-
tered or kept in due form according to the law of the pince in which
it was made, entered or kept, and that such copy is true, and the offi-
cial character of such notary be certified to by any court of record, or
the mayor or other chief magistrate of any county, city, town or bo-
rough, or under the great seal of the state, kingdom, province, island
or colony, in which such notary may reside, shall be evidence in any
court in this state. 
Competency of soitncsses, * 
18. No person assessed, or liable to be assessed, with levies for any
county or corporation, shall be disabled from givil\8 evidence by reason 
only of such assessment or liability.
19. No such person, and no officer of a county or corporation, shall 
be
· t · id · b l f hi b
mcompeten to give evi ence m any case y reason on y o is e- 
· t t h f hi b · 1· bl t ts ·
mg a par .y o sue case, or o is emg 1a e o cos m respect 
thereof, when he is only a nominal party thereto, and liable to contri-,
bute to such costs only in common with other persons assessed with
the levies of such county or corporation. No trustee, executor, or
other fiduciary, shall be incompetent as a witness in any case by rea-
son only of his being a party thereto, or of his being liable to costs in
respect thereof; but if liable to costs, he shall not be competent, un- 
ess some person undertake to pay the same. 
Colored person,s competent witnesses. t 
20. Hereafter colored persons shall be competent to testify in this
state, as if they were white. 
Parties interested may give their evidence by deposition, as well as ore tenus. 
21. No witness shall be incompetent to testify because of interest;
and in all actions, suits, or other proceedings of a civil nature, at law 
or in equity, before any court, or before a justice of the peace, commis-
sioner, or other person having authority by law, or by consent of par- 
ies to hear evidence, the parties thereto, and those on whose behalf
such action, suit, or proceeding is prosecuted or defended, shall, if 
therwise competent to testify, and subject to the rules of evidence
and of practice applicable to other witnesses, be competent to give
evidence on their own behalf, and shall be competent and compellable 
to attend and give evidence on behalf of any other party to such action, 
suit, or proceeding, except as hereafter provided; but in any case at
law, the court may, for good cause shown, require any party to attend
in person and testify ore tenus, or exclude his deposition upon his
failure to attend. 
Competency of husban<J,s and wivu; attesting ioimesse« to wills, deeds, &c.;
where one party is dead or under duability, or is a personal representative,
curator or committee. 
22. Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed to alter the 
rules of law now in force in respect to the competency o husban an
wife as witnesses for or against each other, during the coverture or 
after its termination, nor in respect to attesting witnesses to wills, deeds,
or other instruments;* and where one of the original parties to the con­
tract or other transaction which is the subject of the investigation, is
dead, or insane, or incompetent to testify by reason of infamy, or any
other legal cause, the other party shall not be admitted to testify in
·his own favor, or in favor of any other party having an interest adverse
to that of the party so incapable of testifying, unless he shall be first
called to testify on behalf of such last mentioned party; and where
one of the parties is ap executor, administrator, curator, or committee,
or other person representing a dead person, an insane person, or a
convict in the penitentiary, the other party shall not be. permitted to 
testify in his own favor, unless the contract or other transaction in issue,
or subject of investigation, was originally made or had with a person
who is living and competent to testify, except as to such things as have
been done since the powers of such fiduciary were assumed. 
Where party refuses to testify, rules applicable to cross-examination lo apply.
23. If any party, required by another to testify on his behalf, shall 
refuse to testify, it shall be lawful for the court, officer or person before
whom the proceeding i1 pending, to dismiss the action, suit or other
proceeding of the party so refusing, as to the whole or any part thereof,
or to strike out and disregard the ples, answer or other defence of
such party, or any part thereof, as justice may require. 
24. A party called to testify for another, having an adverse interest,
may be examined by such other party according to the rules applicable
to cross-examination. t 
Accused allowed to testiJ:lf in all prosecutions for assault and l.ialtt>r!J and unlaw­
ful trespass. 
25. Hereafter, in all prosecutions for assault and battery and unlaw­ 
ful trespass, the accused may be sworn and examined as a witness in
his own behalf. 
Summons for witness, hoto issued and to whom directed, luno ioitnesses com·
pelted to testf(y. 
26. A summons may be issued, directed M prescribed in the second 
d d 
section of chapter one hundred and sixty-six, commanding the officer 1866-6, 
to summon any person to attend on the day and at the place that such e, 
attendance is desired, to give evidence before a court, grand jury, arbi-
trators, umpire,justice, coroner, surveyor, notary public, or any commis-
sioner appointed by a court. The summons may be issued, if the attend- 
ance be desired at a. court, by the clerk thereof; if before a grand jury,
by the attorney for the commonwealth, or the clerk of the court, at the 
instance of the a,ttorney for the commonwealth; and in other cases,
by any person before whom, or a clerk of the court of a county or cor- 
·poration in which the attendance is desired; or if it be desired before
a justice of the peace, by such or any other justice. It shall express
on whose behalf, and in what case or about what matter, the witness is
to attend. This section shall be deemed to authorize a summons to
compel attendance before commissioners or other persons appointed 
by authority of another state, but only in case they be citizens of this
state, and the summons requires the attendance of a witness at a place
not out of his county. 
How subpana duces tecwn is issued.
27. When it appears by affidavit that· a writing or document in the 
. f to h . .
possession o a person not a party t e matter m controversy, is ma- 
terial, and proper to be produced before a court, or any person ap-1
pointed by it or acting under its process or authority, such court, or a 
judge thereof in vacation, may order the clerk of said court to issue a
subpcena duces tecum to compel such production at a time 'and place
to be specified in the order. 
How witness failing to attend may be proceeded against. 
, 
28. If any person, after being served with such summons, fail to at-
d 
. id d h · · d t 
ten to give evi ence, or to pro uce sue writing or ocumen , ac-
cording to the summons, the court whose clerk issued the summons,
or a commissioner in chancery who had issued such summons, or if it 
was not issued by a clerk or a commissioner in chancery, a. court of the
county or corporation in which the attendance is desired, on a special 
b fo h
h h
report thereof by the person or persons e re w om t ere was t e
failure to attend, on proof that there was paid to him, (if it was re- 
quired by endorsement on the process.) a reasonable time before he 
was required to attend, the allowance of one days' attendance, and. his
mileage and tolls, shall, after service of a notice to or rule upon him, 
to show cause against it, (if no sufficient cause be shown against it.)
fine him not exceeding twenty dollars, to the use of the party for whom
he was summoned; and said court or commissioner may proceed, by
attachment, to compel him to attend, and give his evidence, at such
time and place as said court. or commissioner may deem fit. The wit-
ness shall, moreover, be liable to any party. grieved, for damages. From
any such fine, when imposed by a commissioner in chancery, the party
shall have the right to appeal to the court whose commissioner imposed
.the same. 
29. If a. person, after being served with such summons, shal\ at-
• tend, and yet refuse to be sworn, or to give evidence, or to produce any 
writing or document required, he may, by order of the court whose
clerk issued said summons, or of the person before whom he was sum­
moned to attend, be committed to jail, there to remaih until he shall, 
!~M, in custody of the jailer, give such e'Vidence, or produce such writing
or document. 
30 A be" h . . b ' d d 
• ny person tore w om a witness is to e exannne , may a - 
• , te th t h it 
mmis ran oa o sue wi ness.
O)j . 
interpreters. 
31. Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret, when necessary. 
Of affidavits and deposition», 
32. In any case in which an oath might be administered by, or an
affidavit made before a. justice, the same may be done by or before a
notary public, or commissioner in chancery, or a. commissioner ap­
pointed by the governor, or by a. court, or the clerk of any court; or
in case of a survey directed by a court in a cause therein pending, by
or before the surveyor directed to execute said order of survey. An
affidavit may also be made before any officer of another state or country
authorized by its laws to administer an oath, and shall be deemed duly
authenticated if it be subscribed by such officer, and there be annexed
to it a certificate of the clerk or other officer of a court of record of
such state or country, under an official seal, verifying the genuineness
of the signature of the first mentioned officer, and his authority to ad­
minister an oath. 
33. In any suit, an affidavit that a. witness or party resides out of this
state, or is out of it, shall be prima facie evidence of the fact, although 
such affidavit be made by a party, and without previous notice. Where
anything is required by any statute to be published in a newspaper, the
certificate of the editor, or affidavit of any other person, shall be ad­ 
mitted as evidence of what is stated therein as to the publication. 
34. In any pending case the deposition of a witness, whether a party 
• • • • • • 
to the suit or not, may, without any commission, be taken m this state 
b . t• ~ bl. b . . . l d . f
y a. JUS ice or notary pu io, or y a comnnssroner m c iancery ; an 1 
certified under his hand may be received without proof of the signa-
ture to such certificate. When a deposition appears to be of a party, 
all exceptions may be made to the reading of it which could have been 
made if it were taken under a special commission; but the taking of
such deposition shall .not deprive the party taking it of any relief he 
would otherwise be entitled to against the deponent. 
"CT • • • • d t. d. . . if hi l a· , 
runo commusion ts issue to take epositums out o t is state; to w,wm irectec
and how authenticated. 
35. On affidavit that a witness resides out of this state, or is out of
it, in the service thereof, or of the United States, a commission to take 
• 
his deposition may be issued by the clerk of the court wherein the case
is pending, directed, if the deposition is to be taken out of this state
but within the United States, to any commissioner appointed by the 
governor of this state, or to any justice or notary public of the state
wherein the witness may be, and directed, if the deposition is to be
taken in a foreign country, to such commissioner or commissioners as
may be agreed upon by the parties or appointed by the court, or if there 
be none such, to any American minister, plenipotentiary, charge d'af-
fsires, consul general, vice-consul, or commercial agent appointed by 
the government of the United States, or to the mayor or other chief 
magistrate of any city, town or corporation in such country, or any no-
tary public therein. Any person or persons t-o whom a commission is 
so directed, may administer an oath to the witness, and take and eer, 
tify the deposition with his official seal annexed; and if he have none,
then the genuineness of his signature shall be authenticated by some 
officer of the same state or country, under his official seal, unless the
deposition is taken by a justice out of this state but in the United
States; in which case his certificate shall be received without any seal 
annexed, or other authentication of his signature. 
Notice to be given ef taking depositions ; in what stage of a suit in equity depoai­
tion may be returned and read. 
36. Reasonable notice shall be given to the adverse party of the time 
d I f
ki d iti d · it · it d . 
an p ace o ta mg every eposr 10n; an m a sut m equi y a eposi-
tion may be read, if returned before the hearing of the cause, or though 
after an interlocutory decree, if it be as to a matter not thereby ad-
judged, and be returned before a final decree.* 
Under what circumstances deposition may be read at law. 
37. A deposition in a case at law, taken on such' notice, under the
h
di · b d · h if h ·t · a- d
t ree prece mg sections, may e rea m sue case 1 , w en 1 is onere ,
the witness be dead, 01" OUt of this state, Or one of its judges, Or a SU-
perintenden~ of a lunatic asylum distant more than thirty miles from 
the place of trial, or in any public office or service, the duties of which
prevent his attending the court, or be unable to attend it from sick- 
ness or other infirmity, or be more than a hundred miles from the place
of trial. But where the only ground of reading a deposition is, that~~ 
the witness is more than a hundred miles from the place of trial, on
motion to the court, before the commencement of the trial, it may, for
good cause shown, require such witnesses to attend in person, 
W ken party taking deposition does not read it, other party may; hou: deposition.
may be taken where appeal or supersedeas lies. 
38. When a deposition has been filed, if not read on the trial by the
party taking it, it may be read by the other party. 
39. In any case wherein there has been a judgment, decree or order,
from or to which an appeal, writ of error or supersedeas, has been or 
might be allowed, a deposition may be taken for any party to such
case, or for or against his or her husband, personal representative, heirs
or devisees, in.like manner, and by such persons, as is before prescribed 
for pending cases; and it may be read in any future trial that may be
directed, if the same could properly be read had there been no such
judgment, decree or order.* 
llow testimony may be perpetuated. t 
40. A person desirous of perpetuating the testimony of witnesses as 
to a matter in respect to which there is no suit, may file with a com­
missioner in chancery of a court wherein, if there were a bill to per­
petuate the testimony, such bill might be filed, a petition stating such
matter, and what persons may be affected by the testimony. Where­
upon the commissioner shall appoint, for proceeding on the petition, a
time and place, whereof reasonable notice shall be given to the persons
who may be so affected. If any of them be an infant or insane person,
the commissioner shall appoint a guardian ad litem to attend on his
behalf. At such time and place the commissioner shall take in writing
the evidence of any witnesses adduced in respect to the said matter by
the petitioner, or by the person so affected. He may adjourn from
time to time, and shall return a report of his proceedings, with the
testimony taken by him, to the clerk's office of the court by which he
was appointed, and such testimony shall have the same effect as if it
had been taken on a bill to perpetuate testimony. Such court may
make such order as to the costs as may seem to it right. 
Allowance to witness for attendance; how entered and paid; taxation of costs. 
41. A person attending as a witness under a summons, shall have
fifty cents for each day's attendance, and four cents per mile for each
mile beyond ten miles necessarily traveled to the place of attendance,
and the same for returning, besides the tolls at the bridges and ferries
which he crosses, or turnpike gates he may pass. On his oath an entry
of the sum he is entitled to, and for what, and by what party it is to
be paid, shall be made, when the attendance is before either house, or 
a. committee of the general assembly, by the clerk of such house or
committee, and in other cases, by the clerk of the court in which the
case is, or the person before whom the witness attended. A witness
summoned to attend in several cases, may have the entry made against
either of the parties by whom he is summoned; but no witness shall
be allowed foi: his attendance in more than one case at the same time.
' 42. The sum to which a witness is entitled, shall be paid out of the
treasury in any case of attendance before either house or a committee
of the general assembly, and in any other case in which the attendance
is for the commonwealth, except where it is otherwise specially pro­
vided. In all other cases it shall ho paid Ly the party for whom the
summons issued. The payment shall be on a certificate of the person 
required by the preceding section to make the entry. The certificate
shall express by letters, and not by figures, the separate amounts to 
which the witness is entitled for his attendance, traveling, and tolls
and ferriages which he may have to pay, and the aggregate thereof.
No clerk or other person authorized to make such ~ntry, or give such
certificate, shall become interested, by purchase, in any claim payable
out of the public treasury, which by law he is authorized to certify;
and it shall be the duty of such clerk, immediately after the expira­
tion of sixty days from the adjournment of any court, to make out a
list. of all entPies made, on behalf of witnesses attending for the com­
monwealth, and certify such list to the auditor of public accounts.
Any dispute (before or after issuing the certificate) between the wit­
ness and the party against whom his claim is made, as to its justice or
amount, may, when the case is in a court or before a justice, be deter·
mined by such court or justice. 
43. The court or justice may restrict the taxation in the costs for 
. t t b d d . t N f . 
w1 nesses o so many as may e eeme JUS .• o entry or a witness
shall be made against a party recovering costs, after execution has 
issued for such party; and in no case shall there be an entry of a wit-
ness for attendance at a term, after sixty days from the end of such
term. 
C-0mpelling party to discover or produce a document.
44. In a case at law, a. party may file in the clerk's office, and in a 
case or matter before a commissioner of a court, any person interested
may file with such commissioner, interrogatories to any adverse party
or claimant. The clerk or commissioner shall issue a summons, directed 
as prescribed in the second section of chapter one hundred and sixty-
. . . h ffi h • t id 
six, requmng t e o cer to summon t e proper party o answer sai 
. t . d k t th f "th" h ti t d
mterroga ories, an ma e re .urn . ereo wi m sue ime, no excee · 
ing sixty days, as may be prescribed in the summons. With the sum-
mons, there shall be a copy of the interrogatories, which shall be deliv-
ered to the person served with the summons, at the time of such service;
if the summons be against a plaintiff who is not a resident of this state;
the service may be on his attorney at law. When the court in which
the case is, or whose commissioner issued the summons, is satisfied that
the interrogatories are relevant, and such as the person to whom they
are propounded would be bound to answer upon a bill for discovery,
and sees also that the interrogatories have not been unreasonably de-
layed, it may, if the said person do not, in a reasonable time, file answers
thereto, upon oath, or, if he file answers which are evasive, attach him
and compel him to answer in open court, or to answer more explicitly,
It may also, if it see fit, set aside a plea of his, and give judgment
against him by default, or, if he be plaintiff, order his suit to be dis-
missed with costs, or, if he be claiming a debt before a· commissioner,
disallow such claim. Answers to such interrogatories may be used as
evidence at the trial of the cause, in the same manner and with the 
same effect as if obtained upon a bill of discovery.
45. In any case at law, a party may file in the clerk's office, and in 
r • • f t · t
any case or matter eiore a commiesioner o a cour , any person 111 e· 
b 
rested ma.y file with such commissioner an affidavit, setting forth that
there is, he verily believes, a book of accounts or other writing, in pos­ 
session of an adverse party or claimant, containing material evidence
for him, specifying.with reasonable certainty such writing, or the part
of such book. The clerk or commissioner shall issue a summons, di­
rected as under the preceding section, requiring him to summon the
proper party to produce such writing, or an exact copy of such part of
the said book, and make return thereof as under that section. With
the summons, there shall be a copy of the affidavit, which shall be de­
livered to the person served with the summons at the time of such
service; if the summons be against a plaintiff who is not a resident of
this state, the service may be on his attorney at law. · When the court
in which the case is, or whose commissioner issued the summons, is
satisfied that the person filing such affidavit has no means of proving
the contents of such writing, or of such part of the book, but by the
person summoned producing what is required by the summons, and
that the same is relevant and material, and sees also that the call
therefor has not been unreasonably delayed, it may, unless the person
summoned shall, in a reasonable time, either produce what is so re­
quired, or answer in writing, upon oath, that he has not under his con·
trol such book or writing, or any of the like import, attach him and
compel him to do the one or the other. It may, also, if it see fit, set
aside a plea of such person, and give judgment against him by default,
or, if he be plaintiff, order his suit" to be dismissed, with costs, or, if
he be. claiming a debt before a commissioner, disallow such claim. 
46. The two preceding sections shall not preclude a person who does
not file such interrogatories or affidavit, from exhibiting his bill in 
chancery for a discovery, as he might have done if the said sections had
not been enacted. But a person filing such interrogatories or affidavit,
shall not afterwards exhibit a bill in equity against the same party for
the discovery or production of the st?-me matters. 
E.ff'cct of party's absence for sevim years. 
47. If any person who shall have resided in this state, go from, and
do not return to the state for seven years successively, he shall be pre­
sumed to be dead in any case wherein his death shall come in ques­ 
tion, unless proof be made that he was alive within that time.
48. If the person so presumed to be dead be found to have been liv­ 
ing, any person injured by such presumption shall be restored to the
rights of which he shall have been deprived by reason of such pre·
sumption. 
E.1:cluding evidence for want of particulars of claim or def. encc.
49. In any action or motion, the court may order a statement to be 
filed of the particulars of the claim, or of the ground of defence; and
if a party fail to comply with such order, may, when the case is tried
or heard, exclude evidence of any matter not described in the notice,
declaration or other pleading of such party, so plainly as to give the
adverse party notice of its character. 
50. In any action for defamation, the defendant may justify by alleg-
ing and proving that the words spoken or written were true, and (after 
notice in writing of his intention to do so, given to the plaintiff' at the
time of, or for plea.ding to such action), may give in evidence, in miti- 
gation of damages, that he made or offered an apology to the plaintiff
for such defamation before the commencement of the action, or as soon
afterwards as he had an opportunity of doing so, in case the action
shall have been commenced before there was an opportunity of making
or offering such apology. 
OF THE COURT DOCKET j ENQUIRY OF DA.HAGES j TRIAL BY JURY j AND JUDG·
ll&NTS AND DECREES OF THE COURT FOR HONEY. 
Sf.C, 
1
} Of the oourt docket, and the order in 
i which caees are heard ; chancery docket 
3:
~ =at ::.'ae~; remedy for refU8ing 
l 
CHAPTER CLXXIII. 
In chancerr CB11e, power to try by jury;
4. in other cases, iasue tried; enqwry of
5. damages; when tudgment rendered, 
f. J oourt may &BCertain clam.ages and in· 
tereet.
'1. Amendment.a of pleadings aUrial. 
:· } Bill of exceptions; argument before jury;
10: 
non-suit, not after jury retire.
11. Retirement of jury; what papers they 
may carry out.
12. IDBtructions to jury where several 
count.a, one of which ia faulty.
13. Verdict in detinue. 
Ste. 
H. Interest allowed; oertain time during
war, excluded from computation of 
int.ereet.
16. Po!~t new trials; how often 
Judgment on bond for money; in action
16. for penalty, what jury t.o do, and judg- 
17. ment thereon; IICll'e faciall for future 
18. breaches; where no jury, judgment for
interest. 
} 
19. In joint actions, plaintiff though barred
as to some, may have judgment against 
others.
20. Judgment against personal representa­ 
tive, to be paid out of estate in his
hands aa fiduciary; when cost.a to be 
paid out of his own estate.
21. How executions may issue during t.erm. 
Of the court docket, and the order in which cases are heard; chancery docket of 
circuit court; remedy for rejulnng to hear a case. 
I. Before every term of a circuit court, and every quarterly term of
a county or corporation court,* the clerk shall make out a docket od~~-8, 
the following cases pending, to-wit: First, cases of the commonwealth,
and secondly, motions and actions in the order in which the notices of 
the motions were filed, or in which the proceedings at rules in the ac-
tions were terminated, docketing together as new cases those not on
the docket at the previous term. He shall, under the control of the 
court, set the cases to certain days; and the docket shall be called, and
the cases on it tried or disposed of for the term in that order, except
that the court may, for good cause, take up any out of .turn, 
2. Before every term of a circuit court the clerk shall make out a
separate docket of chancery cases in which there are motions, and ofc.
other chancery cases which have been set for hearing as to any party,
or which the court is to hear upon a plea, demurrer, or exceptions to 
an answer; and during such term every cause on said docket shall be
called and disposed of. 
3. Any party asking the court to hear a case may, if the court refuse
to hear it, have his application spread upon the record, with a state­
ment of the facts in relation thereto. 
In chancery case, power to try by jury,· in other cases issue tried; enquiry of dam-
ages; when judgment rendered; court may ascertain damages and interest. 
4. Any court wherein a chancery case is pending, may direct an issue
ied i h . . . . . 
t-o be tri in sue court, or m any circuit, county or corporation court.*
But a. circuit court shall not be compelled to try an issue ordered by a 
county or corporation court.
5. A circuit, county or corporation court may, in any other case be- 
f
fore it, have an issue tried, or an enquiry o damages ma.de by a jury t 
and determine all questions concerning the legality of evidence and
other matters of law which may arise. 
· 6. At the next term after an order at the rules for an enquiry of dam-
ages, the same may be executed and final judgment be rendered there­
upon unless good cause be shown for a continuance. The court, if nei­
ther party require a jury, shall ascertain the damages and on what sum
and from what time interest shall be computed, and give judgment for
such damages and interest. 
7. If, at the ·trial of any action, there appears to be a variance be·
tween the evidence and allegations or recitals, the court, if it consider 
the same not material to the merits of the case, and that the opposite:
party cannot have been prejudiced thereby, may allow the pleadings: 
to be amended, on such terms as to the payment of costs or postpone-
ment of the trial, or both, as it may deem reasonable. Or, instead of 
the pleadings being amended, the court may direct the jury to find
the facts, and after such finding, if it consider the variance such as
could not have prejudiced the opposite party, shall give judgment ac-
cording to the right of the case. 
Bill of exceptions; argument hef ore jury; non-suit, not after jury retire. 
* 8. In the trial of a case at law, in which an appeal, writ of error or 
d I
. t hi h t t . . 
superse eas ies o a. 1g er cour , a par y may except to any opimon
of the court, and tender a bill of exceptions, which (if the truth of 
the case be fairly stated therein) the judge or justices, or the greater
part of those present, shall sign; and it shall be a part of the record
of the case. 
9. Not more than two counsel shall argue in a civil case, on the same
side, unless by leave of the court. 
t 10. A party shall not be allowed to suffer a non-suit, unless he do
so before the jury retire from the bar. 
Retirement of jury; what papers they may carry out.
11. Papers read in evidence, though not under seal, may be carried 
from the bar by the jury.
Instructions to jury where several counts, one of which is faulty. 
12. Where there are several counts, one of which is faulty, the de-
fendant may ask the court to instruct the jury to disregard it; yet if 
entire damages be given, the verdict shall be good. 
Verdict in detinue. 
U3. In detinue, if on an issue concerning several things, in one
count, no verdict be found for part of them, it shall not be error, but
the plaintiff shall be barred of his title to the things omitted; and if
the verdict omit price or value, the court may at any time have a jury
impaneled to ascertain the same. 
14. The jury, in any action founded on contract, may allow interest
on the principal due, or any psrt thereof, and fix the period at which 
h · h 11 A d . . ~ . . 
sue interest s a commence. n m any action ror a cause ar1smg
hereafter, whether from contract or from tort, the jury may allow inte­
rest on the sum found by the verdict, or any part thereof, and fix the 
period at which the said interest shall commence. If a verdict be
rendered hereafter which does not allow interests the sum thereby
found shall bear interest from its date, whether the cause of action 
arose heretofore, or shall arise hereafter, and judgment shall be en-
tered accordingly: provided, however, that in all suits for the recovery 
of money, founded on contracts, express or implied, or on causes of
action, or on liabilities which were entered into or existed, or where
the original consideration accrued prior to the tenth day of April, eigh­ 
teen hundred and sixty-five, it shall be lawful for the court or jury by
whom the suit may be tried, to remit the interest upon the original
debt found to be due, or any part thereof, for the period commencing
on the seventeenth day of April, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, and
ending on the tenth day of April, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, or
for any portion of said period. And on any judgment or decree here­
tofore rendered, which has not been paid, the defendant may, on mo­ 
tion, after ten days' notice to the plaintiff, cause the same to be re­
viewed by the court in which it was rendered, and if it shall appear 
from the record that the judgment embraces interest which accrued
between April the seventeenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, and
April tenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, it shall be lawful for the 
court to cause said judgment to he abated to the extent of the interest
so embraced. This provision shall not be so construed as to give au­ 
thority to any court to review such judgment for any other cause what­
ever. This motion shall, in all cases, be at the cost of the plaintiff in
the motion, 
Power to demand new trials; how often exercised. 
* 15. In any civil case, the court before which a trial by jury is had, may
grant a new trial, unless the trial be of an issue in a chancery case, or 
if it be otherwise specially provided. A new trial may be granted, as
well where the damages are too small as where they are excessive.
Not more than two new trials shall be granted to the same party in the
same cause. t 
* 16. When there is a recovery on a. bond, conditioned for the pay-
ment of money, the judgment shall be for the penalty of the bond, to 
be discharged by the payment of the principal and the interest due
thereon. 
17. In an action on an annuity bond, or a bond for money payable
by instalments, where there are further payments of the annuity, or
further instalments to become due after the commencement of the~~~.
action, or in any other action for a penalty for the non-performance of: 
any condition, covenant, or agreement, the plaintiff may as&ign as many
breaches as he thinks fit. If there be judgment for the plaintiff on a. 
demurrer, or by confession, or by default, or nil <licit, he may so assign
after such judgment. The jury impaneled in any such action sba.1117 
ascertain the damages sustained, or the sum due, by reason of the
breaches assigned, and judgment shall be entered for the penalty, to
be discharged by the payment of what is so ascertained, and such fur-
ther sums as may be afterwards assessed, or be found due upon a scire 
facias, assigning a further breach; such scire faeias may be sued out
from time to time, by any person injured, against the defendant, or bis
personal representative, and for what may be assessed or found due
upon the new breach or breaches assigned, execution may be awarded. 
18. In any suit in equity, or in an action founded on contract, where 
. . . 1 d . d t d b d d ~ . te t 
no Jury is 1mpane e , JU gmen or ecree may e ren ere ror m res
on the principal sum recovered, until such principal be paid; and where
there is a jury, which allows interest, the judgment shall, in like man- 
ner, be for such interest until payment.'] 
In joint actions, plaintijf; though barred as to some, may have judgment against
others. 
! 19. In an action, founded on contract, against two or more defend-
ants, although the plaintiff may be barred as to one or more of them, 
yet he may have judgment against any other or others of the defend-
ants, against whom he would have been entitled to recover if he had
med them only. 
-hdpment against personal representative, to be paid out of estate in his hands
as fiduciariJ; when costs to be paid out of his own estate. 
:20. A judgment or decree against any person, as the personal repre-
sentative of a decedent, or committee of a convict or an insane person, 
for a debt due from such decedent, convict, or insane person, may, 
without taking an account of the transactions of such representative
or committee, be entered to be paid out of the personal estate of such
decedent, convict, or insane person in or which shall come to the hands
of the representative or committee to be administered. When the court
enters of record, that if he had prudently discharged his duty, the suit
or motion would not have been brought or made, the judgment or de­
cree, so far as it is for costs, shall be entered to be paid out of his own 
estate. 
21. Any court, after the fifteenth day of its term, may make a gen­
eral order allowing executions to issue on judgments and decrees after 
ten days from their date, although the term at which they are rendered
be not ended. For special cause it may, in any particular case, except
the same from such order, or allow an execution thereon at an earlier 
period. 
OF DECREES OF SALEj ORDERS FOR EXECUTING DEEDS OR APPOINTING TRUS·
TEES;· .\~D THE RESERVATION FOR INFANTS. 
Ste. 
1. Decrees for sale ; of the commiMioner ; to
give bond. 
2. Penonal property, under aales for debts
prior to eighteen hundred and aixty- 
11.ve, to be sold on credit; return of
bonds taken; when to have force of
judgments; proceedings thereon. 
8. Judicial sales of real estate; on what
credit made ; defendant may reeerve 
right to sell on credit.
4. Real property not to be sold for less than 
three-fourths of aue88ed value; waiver
of sale for credit. 
Decrees for sale; of the commissioner; to give bond. 
I. A court, in a suit properly therein, may make a decree or order
for the sale of property in any part of the state, and may direct the
sale to be for cash, or on such credit and terms as it may deem best; 
and it may appoint a special commissioner to make such sale. No 
• special commissioner appointed by a court shall receive money under
a decree or order until he gives bond before the said court or its clerk. 
Personal property, under sales for debts prior to eighteen hundred and sixty:tive,
to be sold on credit; return of bonds taken, when to have force of judgment~; 
proceedings thereon. 
How executions may US'Ue during term. 
CHAPTER CLXXIV. 
Sec.
5. There being no 11~al commiaaioner to 
make saleil sheriff or eergeant to make
it; their abilit)'. 
6. Commiaaione for selling and collecting. 
Order appointing commillldoner to exe-
7. cute deed; or 11ubetituting truetee in 
1 
8. place of one who bu died; when trust
9. ma7 be executed by pel'90nal repreeen- 
j 
tative.
ht of infants to ahow caue against 
t?· ~ecree ; effect of revenal of decree of
· sale upon a purchaaer under it. 
2. Hereafter, and until the first day of April, eighteen hundred and
seventy-four, in all cases of sales of personal property, levied on under
judgments, warrants, or decrees upon obligations, liabilities or debts,
which were contracted or incurred prior to the tenth day of April,
eighteen hundred and sixty-five, the sheriff, or other officer making 
said sales, shall, when so required by the defendant, his agent or at·
torney, at any time before the sale, sell the said personal property upon 
a credit of twelve months, except as to the costs and the expenses of
sale, which may be required in cash, taking from the purchasers bonds,
with sufficient surety, for the balance of the purchase money. The
purchasers shall give their said bonds, payable to the plaintiff: pro·
vided, that for any excess of purchase money over and above the claim
of said plaintiff, the said bonds shall be made payable to the defendant.
Whenever the property is sold under more than one process, the bonds
made payable to the respective plaintiffs shall be given according to
their respective rights and priorities. All of the said bonds, when so
taken, shall be returned within twenty days after the day of sale, by
the officer making the sale, along with the execution or other process
under which the sale was made, in the same manner as a forthcoming
bond is now required to be returned. The clerk shall endorse on said
bonds the date of their return, from and after which time they shall
have, as against the obligors therein then living, the force of a judg­
ment, but no execution shall issue thereon, ~cept that the said bonds
shall, at their maturity, if still unpaid, have in all other respects the
force and effect of a forfeited forthcoming bond, and proceedings 
thereon shall be had upon the same notice and in the sa~e manner as
heretofore provided by law in reference to forfeited forthcoming bonds.
Such of said bonds as are in.a.de payable to the plain tiff may be paid
to him or his assignee, or his agent or attorney, or personal represen­
tative, whenever, in the presence of the clerk to whose office the said'. 
bonds are returned, the amount so paid is endorsed by the plaintiff,
his assignee, or his agent or attorney, or personal representative, as a. 
credit on the process under which the sale was made.* 
Judicial sales of real estate; on what credit made; defendant may waive rigid 
to sell on credit. 
3. All judicial sales of real estate, under decrees or orders hereafter
rendered, for the payment of debts contracted or liabilities incurred 
prior to the tenth day of April, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, shall
be upon a credit of not less than three nor more than six equal instal- 
ments, payable annually from the day of sale, except for so much as
may be necessary to pay the cost of suit and sale, which shall be re-
quired in cash. The defendant, at any time before the rendition of 
such decree, may, by writing, filed among the papers of the cause,
waive the benefits of this section; and the court is empowered to make
such waiver for all ,persons under disabilities. 
Real pr<Yperty noi to be sold for less than three-fourths of assessed value] waiver 
of sale for credit. 
4. No commissioner of any such judicial sale of real estate as is
mentioned in the preceding section, shall, either at the first or second 
exposure of such real estate to sale, sell the same for Jess than three-
fourths of its assessed value, as ascertained by the last official assess· 
ment made for the purposes of taxation: provided, however, that the
party whose property is to be sold, may, by his consent, expressed in
writing, waive the benefit of this section, and permit the property to
he sold free from the restriction hereby imposed. The said commis­
sioner shall return, with his report of sale, an official copy of said 
assessed value of said real estate; hut where the party whose land is
to be sold shall have given his written consent to waive the benefit of
this section, the said commissioner shall file with his report the written
consent, in lieu of the said copy of the said assessed value. Subject 
to these restrictions, the powers and duties of the commissioner and
court shall remain as they now are. 
There being no special commissioner to make sale, s!teriff or sergeant to make it;
their liability. 
5. Where no special commissioner is appointed for the purpose, a
decree or order of any court for the sale of property shall be executed
by the sheriff or sergeant who attends such court, unless the place of 
sale be out of his county or corporation, in which case the sale shall be
by the sheri'tr of the county wherein the place of sale is, or, if the place
be in a corporation, by the sergeant thereof, or the sheriff of the
county including such corporation, as the court may direct. Any
sheriff, sergeant, or other officer, receiving.money under any order or
decree, shall pay the same as the court may order; and if he fail so to
do, he and the sureties in his official bond shall be liable therefor. 
Commissions for selling and collecting.
6. For the services of commissioners or officers under any decree or 
order for a sale, including the collection and paying over the proceeds,
there shall not be allowed any greater commission than five per centum
on the first three hundred dollars received by them, and two per centum
on all above that. And if a sale be made by one commissioner or officer,
and the proceeds be collectedby another, the court under whose decree
or order they acted, shall apportion the commission between them as
may be just. 
Ordi>r appointing commissioner to execute deed, 01· substituting trustee in place of 
one who has died j when trust may be executed by personal representative. 
7. A court of equity, in a suit in which it is proper to decree or order
the execution of any deed or writing, may appoint a commissioner to
execute the same; and the execution thereof shall be as valid to pass,
release or extinguish the right, title and interest of the party on whose
behalf it is executed, as if such party had been at the time capable in
law of executing the same, and had executed it. · 
8. In a. suit in equity in which it appears that a trustee has died, 
} } . f h b . h . 'f hi
although tie terrs o sue trustee e not parties to t e suit, yet 1 is 
1 . d h h . . d b . h
per~ona representative an t e ot er persons intereste e parties, t e 
court may appoint another trustee in the place of him who died, to act
either alone or in conjunction with any surviving trustee, as the case 
may require; and in any case when a trustee, or when there is more
than one, all the trustees in any deed of trust shall have died or re- 
moved beyond the limits of the state, or shall decline to accept the
trust, any person interested in the execution of the deed may apply by
motion to the circuit, county or corporation court of any county or cor- 
poration in which such deed is recorded, who may appoint a trustee or
trustees in the place of the trustee or trustees named therein; and the
trustee or trustees so appointed and accepting the same, shall be sub-. 
stituted to all the rights, powers, duties and responsibilities of the
trustee named in said deed: provided, that the grantor and grantee in
said deed, their heirs or personal representatives, the creditor, surety
or other persons intended to be secured thereby, or their personal rep­
resentatives, shall have ten days' notice of such motion-the mode of
serving which shall be as prescribed in the first and second sections of 
chapter one hundred and sixty-three. 
9. The personal representative of a sole or surviving trustee shall
execute the trust, or so much thereof as remained unexecuted at the
death of such trustee (whether the trust subject be real or personal
estate), unless the instrument creating the trust otherwise direct, or
some other trustee be appointed for the purpose by a court of chan-
cery having jurisdiction of the case. 
Right of infant& to show cause against decree; effect of reversal of decree of sale
upon purchaser under it. 
10. It shall not be necessary to insert in any decree or order a provi-
sion allowing an infant to show cause against it within a certain time
after he attains the age of twenty-one years. But in any case in which,:
but for this section, such provision would have been proper, the infant:
may, witAin six months after attaining the age of twenty-one years, 
show· such cause in like manner as if the decree 01· order contained
such provision. This right of an infant shall not be affected by the
seventh section. 
11. If a. sale of property be made under a decree or order of a court,
f . b fi d 
a ter six months from the date thereof, and such sale e con rme , 
though such decree or order be afterwards reversed or set aside, the 
title of the purchaser at such sale shall not be affected thereby; but
there may be restitution of the proceeds of sale to those entitled. 
I. An injunction may be awarded to enjoin the sale of property
exempt, in the case of a husband or parent, under chapters forty-nine 
and one hundred and twelve] or to protect any plaintiff in a suit for
specific property, pending either at law or in equity, against injury from 
the sale, removal or concealment of such property. 
When suit 1na!/ be brought to avoid transfi er of, or charge upon debtor's estate;
what relief he may have. 
2. A creditor, before obtaining a. judgment or decree for his claim,
may institute any suit to avoid a gift, conveyance, assignment or trans­
fer of, or charge upon, the estate of his debtor, which he might insti­
tute after obtaining such judgment or decree; and he ma.yin such suit
have all the relief in respect to said estate which he would be entitled
to after obtaining a judgment or decree for the claim which he may be
entitled to recover. 
Injunction bill verified by affidavit or othenoise ; notice.
3. No injunction shall be awarded in vacation, nor in court, in a case 
not ready for hearing, unless the court or judge be satisfied, by affidavit
or otherwise, of the plaintiff's equity; and any court or judge ma.y re· 
quire that reasonable notice shall be given to the adverse party, or his
attorney at law or in fact, of the time and place of moving for it before
the injunction is awarded, if, in the opinion of the court or judge it
be proper that such notice should be given. 
4. Jurisdiction of a bill for an injunction to any judgment, act or
In what court injunction case proceeds. 
proceeding, shall be in a circuit, county or corporation court, of a. county
or corporation in which the judgment ~ rendered, or the act or pro- 
ceeding is to be done or is doing or apprehended. 
B
, 
·zz ,~ . . I. hat . z·, d h . . . ,. ded . * 
l o., review, witrnn w time a unoe ; w en inJUnclion may oe awar on it. 
5. A court or judge allowing a bill of review, may award an injunc-
tion to the decree to be reviewed, But no bill of review shall be allowed
to a final decree, unless it be exhibited within three years next after
such decree; except that an infant, married woman or insane person 
may exhibit the same within three years after the removal of his or
her disability. 
General jurisdiction of judges to award injunctions,· when circuit or corporation
court or judge refuses, judge of court of appeals may award injunctio1t. 
6. Every judge of a circuit or corporation court shall have a general
jurisdiction in awarding injunctions, whether the judgment or pro- 
ceeding enjoined be of a. superior or inferior court, in or out of his cir-
cuit or corporation, or the party against whose proceedings the injunc-
tion be asked, resides in or out of the same; and every judge of a
county court shall have jurisdiction in awarding injunctions; whether
the judgment or proceeding enjoined be of a superior or inferior court
of his county or district, or the party against whose act or proceeding
the injunction be asked, resides in or out of the same: provided, such
act or proceeding is apprehended, or is to be done, or is doing, in his
county or district. 
7. When a circuit or corporation court, or a judge thereof, shall re-
fuse to award an injunction, a. copy of the proceedings in court, and 
the original papers presented to the judge in vacation, with his order
of refusal, may be presented to a. judge of the court of appeals, who
may thereupon award the injunction; and when a county court, or
judge thereof, shall refuse to a.ward an injunction, a copy of the pro­ 
ceedings in court, and the original papers presented to the judge in
vacation, with his order of refusal, may be presented to a.judge of the 
circuit court, who may thereupon award the injunction; and when the
circuit court, or the judge thereof, shall, in the case last mentioned,
refuse to award an injunction, a copy of the proceedings in court, and
the original papers presented to the judge in vacation, with his order
of refusal, may be presented to a judge of the court of appeals, who
may thereupon award the injunction. 
Power to restrain removal of property out of state.
8. A court or judge awarding an injunction to restrain the removal 
of property out of the state, may require bond to be given before such
officer, and in such penalty as it may direct, conditioned to have the
property forthcoming to abide the future order or decree of the court, 
and unless such bond be given, may order the officer serving its pro-
cess to take possession of the property, and keep it until the bond be
given, or until the further order of the court. 
9. Every order (awarding an injunction) made under the sixth or
seventh section, shall be directed to the clerk of such court as has ju­
risdiction under the fourth section, and the proceedings thereupon
shall be as if the order had been made by such court, or the judge 
thereof. 
Injunction bond, when, how and before whom given,- endorsement as to it on svl»
pa:na. 
10. An injunction (except in the case of any personal representative
th f h . h . . fth t . d d 
or o er person rom w om, mt e opmion o e cour or JU ge awar -
ing the same, it may be improper to require bond) shall not take effect
until bond be given in such penalty as the court or judge awarding it
may direct, with condition to pay the judgment or decree (proceed- 
ings on which are enjoined), and all such costs as may be awarded 
• t th t btai . th . . . d 11 l d
agams e par yo mmg e injunction, an a sue 1 amages as 
shall be incurred in case the injunction be dissolved, and with a fur­
ther condition, if a. forthcoming bond has been given under said judg­
ment or decree, to indemnify and sa,e harmless the sureties in said
forthcoming bond, and their representatives, against all loss or damage
in consequence of said suretyship; or, if the injunction be not to pro­
ceedings on a judgment or decree, with such condition as the said
court or judge may prescribe. The bond shall be given before the
clerk of the court in which such judgment or decree was, and in other
eases before the clerk of the court in which the suit is, wherein the in­
junction is awarded. If the bond be not given before the summons is
issued, the clerk shall endorse thereon that the injunction is not to take
effect until the bond is given; and the clerk who afterwards takes the
bond shall endorse that it is given. 
How surety in forthcoming bond may obtafo additional security. 
11. Any surety in such forthcoming bond, or his personal representa­ 
tive, may move for and obtain an order for other or additional security,
in like manner as a defendant in the injunction may. 
Order dissolving injunction; damages thereon •.
12. The judge of a. circuit, county oi: corporation court in which a 
case is pending, wherein an injunction is awarded, may in vacation dis­
solve such injunction, after reasonable notice to the adverse party. 
His order for the dissolution shall be directed to the clerk of said court,
who shall record the same in the order book. 
13. Where an injunction to stay proceedings on a judgment or de­
cree for money is dissolved wholly or in part, there shall be paid to the
party having such judgment or decree, damages at the rate of ten per
centum per annum from the time the injunction took effect until the
dissolution, on such sum as appears to be due, including the costs; but
the court wherein the injunction is, may direct that no such damages
be paid, or such portion thereof as it may deem just. The clerk of any
circuit court which, or the judge of which, makes an order dissolving 
an injunction to a. judgment, shall certify to the clerk of the court
wherein the judgment was, the order of dissolution, and ·also the time
the injunction took effect, if that appear in his office. In a case wherein 2 
a forthcoming bond was forfeited, and no execution thereon, before the
injunction took effect, a court awarding such execution shall include
in its judgment or decree damages as aforesaid; in other cases they
shall be included in the execution on the judgment or decree to which
the injunction WQS awarded. The damages shall be in satisfaction of
so much of the interest for the time they are given as may not exceed
said damages. 
Dismission of injunction bill. 
14. Where an injunction is wholly dissolved, the bill shall stand dis-
missed of course with costs, unless sufficient cause be shown against ?~1{1..:
such dismission, when the case is in a circuit court, at the next term, tU.:i!t., 
and when it is in an inferior court, at or before the second term after::~:':~:
the dissolution, whether monthly or quarterly. The clerks of said 6 
h 11
h
di . . h l d f . l 
courts s a enter sue rsrmssion on t e ast ay o sarc terms. 
Clerks to furnish to eouru statement of moneys to credit of suits. 
15. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the county, corporation and
circuit courts to report to their respective courts at the first term 
thereof after the first day of July, eighteen hundred and fifty-two, a
statement, which shall show, in separate columns, the name of the suit
or other proceeding in which any money has been heretofore paid into
court, or into bank or other place of deposit, or to any person specially
appointed to receive the same under any judgment, order or decree of
such court, and which money remains undisbursed, in whole or in part,
at the date of such report; the date of such judgment, order, or de-
cree; the date of such payment; the amount so paid and remaining
undisbursed; the person by whom it was paid; the person to whom,
or the bank or other depository into which the payment was made; if
such money or any part thereof bas been loaned out, or remains on
deposit, or in the hands of the receiver; and if loaned out, the date of
the order authorizing the loan; the date of the loan; the person to
whom it was made, and who then holds it; if security has been given
therefor,· the nature of the security; and where secured by bond or
other obligation, the penalty thereof, and the names of the principal
obligor and his sureties. 
Appointment of receivers; their duties. 
16. Each of the said courts may appoint a general receiver of the
court, who shall hold his office at its pleasure, and whose duty it shall 
be, unless it be otherwise specially ordered, to receive, take charge of,
and invest in certificates of debt of the state of Virginia, or in such
stock or other security as the court may specially order, and in the
manner required by such order, all moneys heretofore paid into court,
or into bank or other place of deposit, and now standing subject to the
order of such court, and all moneys hereafter so paid under any judg-
ment, order, or decree of the court, and also to pay out or dispose of 
the same as the court may order or decree; and to this end, the gen­
eral receiver shall have authority to check for, receive, and give acquit­
tances for all such moneys. 
17. The certificates of debt of the state of Virginia, or any stock or
other security in which, under the special orders of the court, such
investments may be made, shall be taken in the name of the general
receiver, and be kept by him, unless otherwise specially ordered; and
he shall have power to sell, transfer, or collect the same, when ordered
by the court to do so, but not otherwise; and in case of his death,
resignation, or removal, his successor, or any person specially appointed
by the court for that purpose, shall have like power. 
Collection. and investment of funds. 
18. The general receiver shall collect the dividends and interest on
all certificates of debt, stock, or other security in which investments 
have been or may be made, under the orders or decrees of his court, or
the provisions of this act, when and as often as the same may become
due and payable thereon, and shall invest the same in certificates of
debt of the state of Virginia, unless the court has ordered or decreed 
some other investment or disposition to be made thereof; in which case
he shall invest or dispose of the same as the court shall have ordered 
or decreed. 
Their powers over stocks and securities, 
Their accounts and _report& to court •.
19. He shall keep an accurate and particular account of all moneys 
received, invested, and paid out by him, showing the respective amounts
to the credit of each case in the court, and designating in the items the
judgments, orders, or decrees of court under which the respective sums
have been received, invested, or paid out; and on the first day of each
quarterly term of the county court,* and on the first day of each regular
term of the circuit court, he shall report to his court a general state­
ment, showing the balances to the credit of each case in the court in
which money has been received by him, the manner in which it is in·
vested, the amounts received, invested, or paid out since the next pre­
ceding term of the court, and the whole amount then invested and 
subject to the future order of the court; and he shall, at any time
when required by the court so to do, furnish a statement of the amount
subject to the order of the court in any case pending therein. 
Liabilil!J for funds; their bonds and compensation.
20. He shall be liable for all moneys which may come into his hands 
as general receiver; and if a.t any time he shall fail to invest any sum
of money, as required by the preceding sections, for the space of sixty
days after the same shall be, or ought to have been, received by him, 
or shall fail to pay out any sum of money, when required by the court
to pay the same, for the space of sixty days after it shall come into his 
hands for the purpose of such payment, he shall be charged with inte­
rest thereon, from the day when such money was, or ought to have
been, received by him, until such investment or payment is made,
unless, upon good cause shown to the court, it shall order otherwise. 
21. He shall annually give, before the court, a bond, to be approved
by it, in such penalty as the court may direct, sufficient at least to
cover the probable amount which may come into his hands in any one
year. 
22. He shall receive as a compensation for his services such per
f h 
. d d . d id b hi .
centum o t e amount receive an mveste or pa1 out y im m 
e~h case, as the court may direct, for receiving, investing or paying
out the same. 
Penalties for failure in duty. 
23. If he shall fail to keep the account, or to make out and return
the statements required by the nineteenth section of this chapter, he
shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred nor more than
one thousand dollars, to be imposed by the court at its discretion; and
the condition of his official bond shall be taken to embrace the lia- 
bility of himself and his sureties for any such fine. 
When interest is payable; when compounded. 
::M. The interest on all loans made to individuals under an order
of court, heretofore or hereafter, prior to the first day of January, eigh-
teen hundred and fifty-three, shall become due and payable on that
day, and annually on the first day of January in each and every year
thereafter, until the principal is paid; and the interest on all such
loans, made after the first day of January, eighteen hundred and fifty-
three, shall become due and payable on the first day of January next
after the loan shall be made, and annually on the first day of January
in each and every year thereafter, until the principal is paid; and un-
less the interest is paid at the time it becomes due and payable, com·
pound interest shall be charged thereon to the borrower from such
time until payment thereof is made. 
How receiver' s accounts are settled and their bonds examined. 
25. Each county court, at its first quarterly term,* and each circuit
court, at its regular term after the first day of January, eighteen hun-
dred and fifty-three, and annually at the same terms in each year
thereafter, by an order entered of record, shall require one of its
commissioners in chancery, other than the commissioner who may have
been appointed general receiver thereof, to state and settle the accounts
of all the receivers of such court, both general and special, and of all
persons to whom any money has been loaned under the order of the
court, or who have money subject to the future order of the court, and
which then remains undisbursed. The clerk of the court shall furnish
to such commissioner a copy of the order so made, with a list appended 
thereto, exhibiting the names of all such receivers and persons. The
said cemmissioner shall summon such receivers and persons, or the per­
sonal representatives of such of them as are dead, before him, and
audit, state and settle their accounts, and report the same to the county
court within six months, or to the circuitcourt at its next term after
such order has been made; and he shall append to the report a state­
ment, showing in separate columns all the matters required to be shown 
by the clerk in the statement mentioned in the fifteenth section of this
chapter. He shall also cause the bonds of the receivers of the court,
and the bonds or other securities given for any money loaned under the
order of the court, to be produced before him, and shall ascertain if
the obligors in such bonds, or if such other securities are sufficient, and 
report thereon to the court at the times before mentioned. 
W lien required to give new bonds. 
26. The court shall examine the reports required by the fifteenth and
twenty-fifth sections of this chapter, when the same are made to it; and
if satisfied of the correctness thereof, shall order them, by endorse­
ments thereon, to be recorded; and if it appears from the report of the
commissioner that any bond of a receiver, or any bond or other secu­
rity given by any person to whom money has been loaned under its
order, is insufficient, the court shall order additional security to be
given, or another bond to be executed before it, in such penalty as may
seem right, and with sufficient sureties. But the execution of such
new bond shall not discharge the sureties in any prior bond from their
liability for acts of the principal obligor done previous to the execution
of such new bond. 
Clerks to keep receivers' books and index them. 
27. Each clerk of the said courts respectively shall procure, at the
expense of his county, a book, to be called the "receivers' book,"
wherein he shall record the said reports, when approved by the court;
and he shall make an index thereto, showing the style of the suit or
other proceeding in which money has been paid as aforesaid, and the
page where any report respecting the same is recorded; and the said
book shall be open to the examination of any person interested, or his
counsel, without the payment of any fee therefor. 
Fees of clerks and commissioners. 
28. For making the report required by the fifteenth section, and for 
. . . . 
recordmg the reports required by the twenty-fifth section, said clerks
may charge, in each case mentioned in such report, a fee of eighteen
cents; to be chargeable to any party in the case seeking to recover the
money therein and mentioned in the report; and said commissioners
may charge, for the reports made under the twenty-fifth section, the
same fees allowed by law to commissioners in chancery for other re­
ports, to be paid out of the fund in court, and charged to the respec­
tive cases therein, in such proportions as the court slinll judge right. 
1. If, in any cause, the original papers therein, or any of them, or 
• · 
the record for or m an appellate court, or any paper filed or connected
with such record, be lost or destroyed, the court wherein the case is, or 
in which it would or ought to be, but for such loss or destruction, may:
docket the same; and on affidavit of such loss or destruction, the case 
may be proceeded in, heard and determined, upon an authenticated
copy of what is lost or destroyed, or proof of the contents thereof, or:~.:·~. 
upon proof of so much of the contents thereof, as may enable the
court to proceed in, hear and determine the case, and make such entry, 
order or decree therein, as if the papers, or any of them, had not been
lost or destroyed. The court may, in its discretion, require new plead·
ings to be made up, in whole or in part. A plaintiff, instead of pro-
ceeding under this section, may commence and prosecute a new suit
for the same matter: and no certified copy of any deed, will, account,
or other original paper required by law to be recorded in any county or
corporation court, shall be used by any party as evidence for him, in any
case where the original deed, will, account, or other original paper, or
the record thereof, has been destroyed, until such copy has been ad-
mitted to record in the place of the destroyed original. 
Loss or dest~ti<m of papers. in public oj!ices during late war.
2. In any case in which, by any law, or any contract made in pur- 
suance of any law, the filing of any paper or papers, prior to the tenth
day of April, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, in the offices of the
secretary of the commonwealth, the treasurer, the auditor of public
accounts, the second auditor, the board of public works, or the secre-
tary thereof, the board of the literary fund, or the adjutant general,
was made necessary as a prerequisite. to the enjoyment or exorcise of
any right or franchise, or the bringing or maintaining of any suit, or
other proceeding in the nature of a suit, then, if such paper or record
cannot, upon search, be found in the proper office, and there is proba-
ble cause for believing that such paper or record has been destroyed,
the proof, by parol or otherwise, of the actual exercise of such right or 
franchise, acquired by or predicated upon such filing, during the space
of two years, at any time prior to the said tenth day of April, eighteen
hundred and sixty-five, shall, in any suit or other proceeding, when
such question shall arise, be held and deemed to be prima facie evi-
dence of the filing of such paper, in accordance with, the requirements
of such law or contract, and shall be held and deemed to be equivalent
prima fseie, to the full proof of such filing, and of the lawful exercise
of the right or franchise thereby conferred: provided, however, that
such proof shall not be deemed conclusive, but may be rebutted, as in
other cases, by any evidence, parol or otherwise. 
*I. For any clerical error, or error in fact for which a judgment or de­
cree may be reversed or corrected on writ of error coram nobis, the
same may be reversed or corrected, on motion after reasonable notice,
by the court, or if the judgment or decree be in a circuit court, by the
judge thereof in vacation. 
2. A judgment on confession shall be equal to a release of errors.j
For what a judgment or decree shall Mt be reversed. 
t 3. No judgment or decree shall be stayed or reversed for the ap­
pearance of either party, being under the age of twenty-one years, by 
attorney, if the verdict (where there is one), or the judgment or de­
cree, be for him and not to his prejudice; or for want of warrant of
attorney; or for the want of a similiter, or any misjoining of issue; or
for any informality in the entry of the judgment or decree by the clerk,
or for the omission of the name of any juror, or because it may not ap·
pear that the verdict was rendered by the number of jurors required
by law, or for any defect, imperfection, or omission in the pleadings,
which could not be regarded on demurrer, or for any other defect,
imperfection, or omission, which might have been taken advantage of
on a demurrer, or answer,f but was not so taken advantage of. 
114, No decree shall be reversed for want of a replication to the an­
swer, where the defendant has taken depositions as if there had been
a replication ; nor shall a decree be reversed at the instance of a party
who has taken depositions, for an informality in the proceedings, when
it appears that there was a full and fair hearing upon the merits, and
that substantial justice has been done. 
5. The court in which there is a judgment by default, or a decree on
a. bill taken for confessed, or the judge of said court in the vacation
thereof, may, on motion, reverse such judgment or decree for any er- 
ror for which an appellate court might reverse it, if the following sec-1~
tion was not enacted, and give such judgment or decree as ought to
be given. And the court in which is rendered a judgment or decree, 
in a cause wherein there is a declaration or pleading, or in the record of
the judgment or decree any mistake, miscalculation or misrecital of
any name, sum, quantity or time, when the same is right in any part
of the record or proceedings, or when there is any verdict, report of~ 
a commissioner, bond or other writing, whereby such judgment or de-
cree may be safely amended; or in which a. judgment is rendered on a 
forthcoming bond for a sum larger than by the execution or warrant of
distress appears to be proper, or on a verdict in an action for more 
damages than are mentioned in the declaration; or in the vacation of
the court in which any such judgment or decree is rendered, the judge
thereof may, on the motion of any party, amend such judgment or
decree according to the truth and justice of the case; or in any such 
h b
. . h . d t d . h 
case t e party o taining sue JU gmen or eoree may, m t e esme
court, at any future term, by an entry of record, or in the vacation by
a writing signed by him, attested by the clerk, and filed among the pa-
pers of the cause, release a part of the amount of his judgment or de-
cree; and such release shall have the effect of an amendment, and
make the judgment or decree operate only for what is not released. 
Every motion under this chapter shall be after reasonable notice to the
opposite party, his agent or attorney, in fa.ct or at law, and shall be 
within five years from the date of the judgment or decree. 
What appellate court is to do in a case in which there might be redress under
preceding section. 
6. No appeal, writ of error or su persedeas shall be allowed by an ap- 
• • -. 
pellate court or Judge for any matter for which a Judgment or decree
is liable to be reversed or amended, on motion as aforesaid, by the court
which rendered it, or the judge thereof, until such motion be made
and overruled in whole or in part. And when an appellate court hears
a case wherein an appeal, writ of error or supersedeas has been al-
lowed, if it appear that, either before or since the same was allowed,
the judgment or decree has been so amended, the appellate court shall 
affirm the Judgment or decree, unless there be other error; and if it
appear that the amendment ought to be, and has not been made, the
appellate court may make such amendment, and affirm in like manner
the judgment or decree, unless there be other error.* 
serted. There shall not be copied an account reported by a commis­
sioner to which there is no exception, nor any printed document of
which either part.y will furnish to the clerk a copy, but such duplicate
shall be attached to what is copied; and when a case has before been
in the appellate court, there shall only be copied the proceedings sub­
sequent to the former appeal, writ of error or supersedeas. 
Appellate court may inspect former records Lefore it.
7. The appellate court, or a judge thereof, may, when a case has be- 
fore been in such court, inspect the record upon the former appeal:
writ of error, or supersedeas; and such court may, in any case, award
a writ of certiorari to the clerk of the court below, and have brought 
before it, when part of a record is omitted, the whole or nny part of
such record. 
Petition ef appeal, how prepared and certified.
8. A petition for an appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas shall assign 
errors; and it shall not be presented until some counsel or attorney of
the appellate court shall certify that, in his opinion, it is proper that
the decision should be reviewed by such court. 
To whom presented. 
9. The petition may be presented to the court wherein the case is to
be docketed, if the appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas be allowed, or
to a judge thereof; or, if the judgment, decree, or order be of a county
court, to any circuit judge. 
1V ken petition to Le rejected, and when rejection final. 
10. The petition shall be rejected when it is for an appeal from an
interlocutory <lecree or order, in a case which the court or judge to
whom it is presented deems it most proper should be proceeded in fur­
ther in the court below before an appeal is allowed therein. In a case
wherein tho court or judge to whom a petition is duly presented shall
deem the judgment, decree, or order plainly right, and reject it on
that ground, if the order of rejection so state, no other petition shall
afterwards be presented to tho same purpose, except to an appellate
court, or a judge thereof, and founded upon the rejection of the petition
by the inferior court or judge. 
When supcrscdcas i., awaracd. 
11. Any court or judge to whom a. petition is duly presented, if of
opinion that the decision complained of ought to be reviewed, may
allow an appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas, and in a case of appeal.
[as well as of a supersedeas.] may award a supersedeas to stay proceed­
ings, either in whole or in part, 
1V here appeals, &e., to Le docketed. 
12. Every appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas shall, when it is to or
from a judgment, decree, or order of the court of any county, be dock- 
eted in the circuit court which has jurisdiction over such county; but
when any judgment, decree, or order shall he hereafter, or shall 
have been heretofore, rendered by any county court, and any parry
deeming himself aggrieved by said judgment, decree, or order, shall
apply, or shall have heretofore applied, to a judge of a circuit court,
in vacation, for a writ of error, appeal, or supersedeas, and the same 
shall be, or shall have been, denied by a judge of a circuit court, in
vacation, an application may be made immediately to the supreme
court of appeals, or to any judge thereof, for a writ of error, superse-
deas, or appeal, ns may be proper in the case: provided, said court
would otherwise have jurisdir-tion thereof. And the supreme court of
appeals, or any judge thereof, may grant such relief as may be proper
in the case, nnd if the writ of error, appeal, or supersedeas be allowed,
shall be docketed and heard in said court of appeals. When it jg to
or from a judgment, decree, or order of any other court, it shall Le
docketed in said court of appeals. The clerk of the court wherein it
is docketed shall issue a summons against the parties interested other
than tho petitioners, that they may be heard, and also issue any super-
sedeas which mny be awarded. 
Bond required ef appellant, 
13. Except where an appeal, writ of' error, or supersedo.i« i,; proper
to protect the estate of a decedent, convict, or insane person, the same
shall not take effect until bond is given by the appellants or pet.itioriers,
or one of them, or some other person, in a penalty to be fixed by tho
court or judge hy or in which the appeal, writ of error, or supersedens 
is allowed or entered, with condition, if a supersedeas be awarded, to
perform and sntisfy the judgment, decree, or order, or the part thereof,
proceedings on which are stayed, in case the said judgment, decree, or
order, or such part, be affirmed, or the appeal, writ of error, or super-
sedoas be dismissed; and also, to pny all damages, costs, awl fees which
may he awarded against or incurred by the appellants or pot itioncrs
and if it be an appeal from nn order or decree dissolving an injunction,
or dismissing a bill of injunction, with a further condition to indemnify
and save harmless the surety in the injunction bond ngain:-;t all loss or
damage in consequence of his suretyship ; and with condition, when
no supersedeas is awarded, to pny such specific damages, amt such costs
and fees as may he awarded or incurred. 
Ry uibom. Lond to Le tukcn. 
14. Such bond shall be taken by the clerk of the appr-llnte court bt•-
fore process is issued thereupon, except where the court of appeals is
the appellate court, the clerk whereof shall indorsc on the summons
or supersedeus, that it is not to be effectual until such hond be ;zivc11
before the clerk of the court below, who shall take said bond and in-
dorso on the same process, that it has been given, nn.l t hr- n.uuos of the
suret ios therein. 
15. On the motion of any surety in such bond, aftt•r reasonable notice
to or n. rule against his principal, the appellate court may order bond 
to be given, in such time as it, may prescribe, with sufficient security to
indemnify and save harmless such surety against all loss or damages in
consequence of his suretyship ; and if such order be not complied with,
may order the appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas to be dismissed. 
16. In a case where there is an appeal of right, the clerk of the court
from whose order such appeal is taken, shall deliver a copy of the record 
to the clerk of the circuit court as soon as practicable, unless the appel­
lant direct him not to deliver it; in which case, he shall deliver to the
clerk of the circuit court a copy of the entry of the appeal, and a cer­
tificate of such direction. On the production of such copy and certifi­ 
cato, the circuit court shall enter a dismission of the appeal. 
Limitation to appeals. 
17. ~ o 111·ocl'""- shall issue upon any appeal, writ of error, or superse­ 
clt':t" allowed to or from a final judgment, decree, or order, if, when tho
record is delivered to the clerk of the appellate court, there shall have 
t>la}i,.:t,d two years since the date of such final judgment, decree, or
order : hut the appeal. writ of error, or superscdoas shall he dismissed
whenever it appears that two year:; have elapsed since the said date
before the record is delivered to such clerk, or before such bond is
given, a:- i ... required to be given, before the appeal, writ of error, or
-upersedcas takes effect: provided, however, that section twenty-six of
chapter one hundred and eighty-two of the Code of eighteen hundred
and sixty," instead of this section, shall remain in full force, and apply
to cases in which the appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas may be to
:my judgment or dr-crcc rendered before t.he pns:-;age of this act. 
l x. AftPr t lu- cli:--mi~si()n of nn appeal, writ of error or supersedeas,
no ot her nppenl, writ of f'rl'Or or suporsedoas shall hi> allowed to or from 
t lro <amc .iudgmcnC docroo or order. 
/ l,111: r.rords prt'J>lll'(II, printed and 11ui,/ for. 
l ~I. In every case docketed in the court of uppeuls, the clerk of the
court where t hc case is docketed, shall make a table of contents to the 
whole record. < )f the petition, so much of t he record as the counsel
for any party interested or the court may direct, and the table of con­
tP11t-i, t lio clerk shall cause twelve copies to he pvinted, unless n larger
number lw ordered l1y the court, preserving in the margin of the
printed record the paging of the record from the court below, which
shall he u-cd in printing and returned to the clerk's office. ThC' clerk
shall tak« care that the printing be properly done. Of t he copies
printed, hP shall deliver one to each judge, two to the counsel on each
si<le, retain one in his office, transmit one to the clerk of the court be- 
low (in which the case was originally decided), and deliver the other
copy to the reporter. The cost of the printing, after being allowed by
the court, shall be paid out of the treasury. Whenevf'r the cost of the 
. . f d f h f d l 1 ' I ' ' 
prmhng o recor s o cases ereto ore oc cetec m any < istrict court
of appeals remains unpaid, the same shall, after being allowed by the
supreme court of appeals, be paid out of the treasury: provided, that
the cost of such printing shall in no case exceed one dollar and fifteen
cents per page of fifteen hundred ems. 
Docket of cau.ses ,·eady for hearinq,
20. Annually, before the court of appeals commences its session at 
R
. h d ''IT h ·11 l s . l l l k l 
re mon , v yt evi e anr 'taunton, respective y, tie c er at enc 1 
place shall make out a docket of the causes then ready for hearing.
Those at each place shall be numbered by figures, and shall be docketed
in the order in which the causes were matured, and be heard in the
same order; except, that. upon the docket at Staunton, the clerk shall
docket the cases from each circuit separately, in the order in which
they may be matured; and the cases from the county of Frederick,
Clarke, Warren, Page and Shenandoah, of the twelfth circuit, may be
heard at Winchester, in the county of Frederick, at such time as the
court may fix for the hearing of said causes: provided, however, the
same shall be heard within the period of time allotted for the holding
of the court at Staunton. The clerk of the court at Staunton, shall
take charge of all cases assigned to be heard at Winchester, and shall
attend said court, have the custody of the records of said cases until
the same shall be disposed of, and then returned to the office of the
clerk of the court at Staunton, at the end of each session at Win- 
chester. 
lV hat cases may be heard out of term, 
21. The court may bear out of term cases concerning the probate of
a will, or the appointment or qualification of a personal representative,
guardian, curator or committee, or concerning a mill, roadway, ferry or
landing, and any others which it may see good cause for so hearing. 
Circuit court may, but court of appeals may not, hear parol testimoiiy. 
22. On an appeal from an order of a county or corporation court. in 
. h b f '11 l . . 
a. controversy concernmg t o pro ate o a wi , or t 10 appointment or
qualification of a personal representative, guardian, curator or com-
mittee, or concerning a. mill, roadway, ferry or landing, witnesses may
be examined in the circuit court; but in no case shall the court of ap-
peals bear parol testimony. 
Decision ef appellate court] divided court, 
23. The appellate court shall affirm the judgment, decree or order,
· f h b l · d h · l l · 
1 t ere e no error t ierem, an reverse t e same, m w 10 e or m part,
if erroneous, and enter such judgment, decree or order, as the court 
whose error is sought to be corrected ought to have entered, affirming
in those cases where the voices on both sides are equal: provided, how- 
ever, that in order to declare, in any case, any law null and void by 
• 
reason of its repugnance to the Federal constitution, or the constitu­
tion of this state, it shall be necessary that a majority of the judges
elected to the supreme court of appeals shall concur. 
What damages awarded to appcllee, 
:H: When any judgment, decree or order is affirmed, damages shall
be awarded to the appellee ; such damages, when the judgment, decree
or order, is for the payment of money, shall be the interest to which
the parties are legally entitled in the cause, (to be computed upon the 
whole amount of the recovery, including interest and costs.] from the
time the appeal, writ of error _or supersedeas took effect, until the
affirmance, or, if the affirmnnco ho by the court of appeals, until a
copy of its decision is entered in the order book of the court below,
which damages shall be in satisfaction of nil interest during that time.
When the judgment, decree or order, is not for the payment of any
money, except costs, the damages shall Lo such specific sum as the ap­
pellate court may deem reasonable, not being more than one hundred
dollars, nor in the court of appeals less than thirty dollars, 
lV lien circuit court reversin,q judgment, UW!/ retain cause for further proceedings, 
25. When any judgment, decree or order of a county court is reversed
or affirmed, the came shall not be remanded to said court for further 
proceedings, but. shall be retained in the circuit court, and there pro­
ceeded in, unless by consent. of the parties, or for good cause shown,
the appellate court direct otherwise. 
lf' hen clerk shall transmit decisions r:f court. 
:!G. When any term of tho court of appeals is ended, or sooner, if
the court so direct, the clerk thereof shall certify, and, by mail or oth­
erwise, transmit its decisions to the clerk of the court. below, except
that it shall not be his duty to certify or transmit n copy of a decree
or judgment of affirmanco, unless the appellee or defendant in error
shall have paid all fees due from him in the case, or shall endorse on
such copy so much of the decree or judgment, for the benefit of the
clerk~ nR the unpaid fe<> shall amount to. If any clerk shall fail to
comply with this section for twenty <lays, except as aforesaid, he shall
forfeit fifty dollars to any person aggrieved thereby. 
27. The decision of the supreme court of appeals in any case now
pending, on an appeal, writ of error or supersedeas, to or from the
judgment of the hustings or circuit court of the city of Richmond, as
heretofore constituted, shall be transmitted by the clerk of the su­
preme court, under the limitations of the preceding section of' this act,
to the clerk of the hustings court, or tho clerk of the chancery court,
or *-o clerk of the circuit court of Richmond, according as the said
judgment was rendered in a criminal, a chancery, or a common law
case, respectively. 
Postaqe paid by clerk and refunded to him.
28. On all decisions so transmitted by mail, the clerk shall pay the 
postage. His accounts for such postage, verified by oath, may, from 
time to time, at intervals not exceeding eighteen months, be certified 
by the court of appeals to the auditor of public accounts for payment
out of the treasury. 
Cases pending in district courts transferred to court of appeals ; expenses of 
lV hen court of appeals has jurisdiction; iohere to try cases. 
31. Such of the said causes as the supreme court of appeals may
have jurisdiction to try, shall be tried by the said court accordingly, 
either a.t Richmond, or at Wytheville, or at Staunton, as the court may
deem proper-the papers and records of such of the said causes as may
be deemed proper to be tried at Wytheville or at Staunton being first
sent to the clerks of the courts there, for that purpose, by order of the
court at Richmond. 
32. The decisions of the supreme court of appeals in the said causes
shall, by the clerk thereof, be certified and transmitted to the clerks
of the circuit courts, respectively, from which the said causes may have
gone to the said district courts, and shall be entered as the decisions of
said circuit courts, respectively, and executions may issue thereupon 
- accordingly. 
How decision of appellate court is executed. 
29. The court from which any case may have come to the court of
appeals, shall enter the decision of the appellate court as its own, and
execution may issue thereon accordingly. If such decision be received
by' the clerk of the court below in vacation, he shall enter it of record
in his order book, and thereupon such execution may issue and such
proceedings be had in the case as would have been proper if the de·
cision had been entered in court. 
transfer, how certified and paid. 
30. All cases which were pending in the district courts when the
present. constitution took effect, are hereby transferred to the supremes 
court of appeals, and the papers and records of said causes, and copies
of the proceedings of said district courts therein, shall, without unne- 
cessary delay, be delivered by the clerks thereof, respectively, to the
clerk of the supreme court of appeals nt Richmond; which court shall
audit and certify to the auditor of public accounts, for payment out of
the treasury, such incidental expenses as may be incurred by the trans-
fer of the cases pending as aforesaid in the district courts; and the su-
preme court .shall alsoexamine and certify for payment the unpaid
-contingent expenses and allowances of the several district courts. 
Decisions of court, hoio certified. 
1V ha: cases from district courts to be transferred to and disposed of by circuit
courts; books and records, &c., hou: disposed cf, 
33. All cases which were pending in the district courts when the
present constitution took effect, of which the supreme court of appeals
may not have jurisdiction, shall be transferred to and docketed in the 
circuit courts of the counties or corporations whence the appeals were 
originally taken, there to be heard and finally disposed of as by an ap­
pellate court, ,vhen the judge of the court to which any such case is 
transferred, is the same person before whom the case was originally
tried, then the judge, either in term time or vacation, may remove such
case to any other circuit court, there to be heard and finally disposed
of as by an appellate court. 
Other books and records to remain with clerks of court of appeals; certificates to
clerks of circuit or hustings courts j printed and manuscript orders, luno dis­ 
posed of. 
34. The order books, dockets, and other office books belonging to
the several district courts, shall be delivered to and remain in the cus­ 
tody of the clerks of the supreme court of appeals at the places of ses­
sion respectively having jurisdiction over the counties, or a majority of 
them, over which the said district courts respectively had jurisdiction,
The said clerks shall certify to the proper circuit or hustings court all 
judgments, decrees, or orders of the said district courts respectively,
which may not have been so certified by the clerks of said district
courts; shall furnish transcripts of the records and proceedings of the
said district courts when required, and perform all other duties in re­
spect to records and proceedings of the said district courts as might
have been performed by the clerks of the said district courts if the
said courts had continued to exist. All printed and manuscript orders,
and other papers pertaining to cases decided in the said district courts,
shall be delivered to and remain in the custody of the clerks of the
circuit courts at the several places where the said district courts held
their sessions, who shall be charged with the same duties in respect to
said records and papers as might have been performed by the clerks of
the said district courts respectively, if said courts had continued to
exist, and who shall receive for any such service similar fees to those 
charged by the clerks of district courts for such services. 
Appeals hereafter,from decisions of district courts, in cases in which. the court of 
appeals has jurisdiction, to be tried by it, and records and papers transferred
therefor j process, how issued. 
35. If any appeal, writ of error or supersedeas be hereafter obtained
from or to any judgment, decree or order of any of the said district
courts, in any case in which the supreme court of appeals has juris­
diction, all the printed records of such case which may be in the hands
of the clerk to whose custody the papers in the case belong us afore­
said, shall be sent by said clerk to the clerk of the supreme court of 
appeals at Richmond, and the case shall be proceeded in as hereinbe­
fore directed in regard to causes transferred to the said court which
were pending in the said district courts when the present constitution
took effect. Process in the case shall be issued, directed, executed and 
returned, and have the same effect, and any appeal or supersedeas
bond required by law to be given shall be executed in the same man­ 
ner as if the said judgment, decree or order had been rendered .by
the circuit court from which the cause may have gone to the district
court. 
36. In all cases in which a writ of error, supersedeas or appeal has
been obtained to or from a judgment or decree of a district court of 
appeals, the bond required to be given by the appellant may be given
in the clerk's office of the court to or from which the writ of error, su­
persedeas or appeal in the cause was obtained to the district court of
appeals. 
37. In all cases in which a writ of error, supersedeas or appeal has
been obtained to or from a judgment or decree of a district court of
appeals, the judgment or decree of the supreme court of appeals shall
be certified to the court to or from which the writ of error, superse-
deas or appeal was obtained to the district court of appeals. 
38. The supreme court of appeals may rehear and review any case
decided by said court, within the last fifteen days of the preceding
term: provided, that one of the judges who decided the cause ad·
versely to the applicant, shall certify, that in his opinion there is good
cause for such rehearing. 
s«: 
How court of appeals may rehear and review causes. 
What acts repealed by this chapter, 
39. All acts amendatory of chapters one hundred and sixty and one
hundred and eighty-two of the Code, edition of eighteen hundred and
sixty, hereby amended and re-enacted, and all parts of the chapters
not herein contained, are hereby repealed." 
CHAPTER CLXXIX. 
GENERAL PROVISIOSS AS TO CIVIL C.\SES. 
1. :Matten under this title, rules for all
courts. 
2. How jurisdiction is determined, where
proceeding ill on a penal bond. 
S. 'Who may execute bond for obtaining n.
writ or order. 
4. How proceedmgs may be in COl!eS pend­
ing when tl1i11 n.ct. commenees, or m ac­ 
tion of replevin brought after. 
se. 
6. Proceedings in CMe wherein bail given
before this act commences. 
6. Where judtrment for specific personal
property is affirmed or injunction to
such judgment is dissolved, damages
may be given for detention of pro­ 
perty; how the party entitled to dam­
ages to proceed. 
Matter» under this title, rules for all courts. 
1. All things contained in any chapter under this title, not restricted
b 
h . b . . . 1 h 11 b 
y t err nature, or y express provision to a parttcu ar court, s a e
the rules of decision and proceeding in all courts within this state, 
2. Where the proceeding before a court of justice is on a penal bond,
with condition for the payment of money, the jurisdiction shall be de­
termined as if the undertaking to pay such money had been without 
a penalty. And where jurisdiction depends on the amount of a judg­
ment, if it be on such a bond, the juriadiction shall be determined by
the sum, payment whereof will discharge the judgment. 
1V ho may execute bond for obtaining a writ or order.
3. A bon<l for obtaining any writ or order, in term time or vacation, 
may be executed by any one person with sufficient surety, though it be
in a case no party to which is an obligor. 
Houi proceedings may Le in cases pending when this act commences, or in action
of replecin brought ofter. 
4. In any case pending at the time of the commencement of this 
. . f l . b h f r hi h
act, or many action o rep evm roug tater, ror a cause w ic arose 
before such commencement, the proceedings, so far as it may not be
practicable for them to conform to other sections of this act, may be
according to the laws in force on the day before such commencement, 
Proceedings in case wherein bail given before this act commences. 
5. Any suit wherein bail shall have been required, and not given,
before the commencement of this act, may be proceeded in as if the
same had not been required." And in any suit wherein bail shall have
been given, before the commencement of this act, the plaintiff may
proceed against the bail, and the bail may be discharged, according to
the laws in force before such commencement; but no principal surren­
dered in a pending suit by such bail shall be committed to jail because
of such surrender. 
lV here judgment for specific personal proper(11 is affirmed or injunction to such
judgment is dissolved, damages may be ,qiven for detention of property; how 
the party entitled to damages to proceed, 
6. When a judgment for specific personal property is affirmed by an 
11 . . . . d . .
nppe ate court, or an injunction to such juc gment 1s dissolved, the 
l . ti 1 l t . f l . d . h ld
person w 10 is en it ec o execution o sue 1 ,Ju gment, or w o wou 
be entitled if execution had not been had, may, on motion to the court
from which such execution has issued, or might issue, after four weeks! 
notice to the defendant or his personal representative, have a jury im­
paneled to ascertain the damages sustained by reason of the detention 
of such property, subsequent to such judgment, or if it was on aver­
diet, subsequent to such verdict; and judgment shall be rendered for
the damages so ascertained, if any. 
1. The secretary of the commonwealth may charge for services ren-
<lered in his office, the following fees, to be paid by the person for whom 
the service is rendered, at the time it is done:* For a testimonial, one
dollar and fifty cents; for a copy of any paper, if on one sheet, one
dollar ; and for ench sheet after the first, seventy-five cents; for issuing
a commission to a commissioner in another state, five dollars; for issu-
ing a commission to each notary public and inspector appointed by the
governor, two dollars and fifty cents; for making out. n requisition for 
a fugitive from justice demanded of another state, two dollars; for is-
suing a warrant for the arrest of a fugitive demanded by the executive 
authority of another state, two dollars. The clerk of the house of dele­
gates, for a copy of an act of assembly, if in one sheet, one dollar, and
for each sheet after the first, seventy-five cents. These fees shall be 
paid by the person for whom the service is rendered at the time it is
done. 
Fees of surveyors. 
2. Each of the officers hereinafter mentioned, may, for services per­
formed by him by virtue of his office, charge the following fees, to-wit:
For all surveying actually done, for the first one hundred poles, or any
less distance, long measure, per pole, one cent; after the first one hun­
dred poles, long measure, per pole, one-half cent; for calculating the
·quantity of less than six courses or lines, fifty cents; when land is di­
vided, for calculating each division of less than six courses, fifty cents; 
for every course or line more than six, three cents; for making a plat
of six courses, or less, fifty cents; for every course more than six, three
cents; for recording a plat and certificate, if not more than six courses,
fifty cents; for every course above six, three cents; for a copy of a plat
and certificate, where there are not more than six courses, fifty cents;
for every course above six, three cents; for making an entry, fifty cents;
for a copy of an entry, seventeen cents; for every search, where no copy
is required, twelve and one-half cents; for giving a receipt for a warrant
or any other paper, seventeen cents; for traveling to the place of sur-
veying, and returning, per mile, five cents. • 
lV lien surve1Jing is done at different places on same lour, ho'11J mileage is appor­
tioned. 
3. If surveying be done at different places on the same tour, the
mileage shall be apportioned among the different surveys according to
their distance from the residence of the surveyor or deputy and each
other, so that the surveyor shall not receive more than five cents a mile
for going and returning for any one trip. 
Fees of notaries public,* and justices of the peace. t 
4. Where there is a protest by him, for the record thereof, making 
• . t f d l . ffi . 1 l d . f di h 
out instrumen o protest un er us o era sea , an notice o ts onor
to one person besides the maker of a note or accept-Or of a bill, one 
dollar; for every additional notice, ten cents; for taking and certifying
the acknowledgment of any deed or writing, or taking and certifying 
the privy examination and acknowledgment of a married woman, fifty
cents; for administering and certifying an oath, unless it be the affi­
davit of a witness, twenty-five cents; for taking and certifying affidavits
or depositions of witnesses, where done in an hour, seventy-five cents;
if not done in an hour, for any additional time, at the rate per hour of
seventy-five cents; for other services, the same fee as the clerk of n
county or corporation court for like services, 
5. For services which might be performed by notaries, the like fees
for like services; for any other service such fees as the court hy which
the commissioner is appointed, may from time to time prescribe, .not 
exceeding seventy-five cents, where less than an hour is employed, and
if more than an hour be employed, not exceeding the rate of seventy.
five cents for each hour. 
Commissioners to make affida,,it oj tke time employed; rig/;t to require payment 
cf fas, or s,:c1(rity therefor, before makiro] out or returning a report. 
6. A commissioner returning n report shall annex thereto an aflldn-
vit, that he was diligently employed not less than hours in per- 
forming the services for which the fees stated at the foot thereof are
charged. Until such affidavlt is made, no bill shall be made out for
said fees. A commissioner shnll not he compelled to make out or re- 
turn a report until his fees therefor be paid, or security given him to
pay so much as may be adjudged right by tho court to which the re·
port is to he returned, or if it be n circuit court, by the judge thereof 
in vacation, unless the court or judge sec cause to order it to be made
out and returned without such payment or security, and shall so order. 
Notaries or commissioners to stale on njlidu.vit, deposition or rcport ; fee therefor,
and to whom charged. 
T, A notary or commissioner returning affidavits or depositions of
witnesses, shall state at the foot thereof the fees therefor. To whom
such fees or the fees for a commissioner's report. arc charged, and if
paid, hy whom, shall also be mentioned, when the fe0;; arc stated. 
Fees r!f commissioners in certain cities. 
8. A commissioner in chancery residing in the city of Illchmond,
city of Norfolk, or city of Alexandria, may charge for services which
might be performed by a notary, the like fees for like services, and for
any other services, such foe's as the court by which the commissioner
is appointed, may from time to time prescribe>, not, exceeding one dol-
lar, where less than an hour is employed; and if more than an hour
be employed, not exceeding the- rate of one dollar for each hour. 
9. A commissioner in chancery shall receive for services which might
be performed by notaries, the like fees for like services, anti for any 
• } c t} t l hi } ] · · d f
services, sue 1 tees as re court >y w w 1 re •~ appointe may romp
time to time prescribe, not exceeding one dollar when less than an
hour is employed; and if more than an hour he employed, not exceed·
ing the rate of one dollar for each hour. 
10. Where a wrifing is admitted to record, under chapter one hun-
dred nnd seventeen, for every thing relating to it, except the recording
in the deed book, to-wit : for receiving proof or acknowledgment, en-
tering orders, writing on it, clerk's certifloate, statement of deed in li,,t 
returned to court, recording in minute Look and posting same, and
embracing it in .Iist for commissioner of the revenue, fifty cents; for
recording n plat of not more than six courses, or for a copy thereof,
fifty cents; for every course above six, three cents; for recording in t he
deed book such writing, and all matter therewith (except plats), or for
recording any thing not otherwise provided for, for every thirty words,
three cents; in lieu of the said allowance of three cents for thirty word . .:,
the clerk may, for recording in the deed Look, elect to charge the fol­
lowing specific fees, to-wit: where the writing is a deed of trust or mort­
gage, or is a conveyance of real and personal estate, or of real estate
only, seventy-five cents i and where it is not such, twenty-five cents:
for swearing the witnesses, and entering in the order or minute book
all orders in relation to the proof of a will which iii admitted to record
without contest, and copying such orders on the will, fifty cr-nts ; for
recording a will, and the matter recorded therewith in the will book,
nt the option of the clerk, three cents for every t hirty words, or a sp~­
cific fee of thirty cents; if there be an order committing a dcceden t« 
estate to an officer, for entering and copying such order, and the order ...
of appraisement, fifty cents; if any personal representative qualify, for
swearing him and his surety, making out bond, entering and copying
on the will, order granting probate or administrut ion, makiug one copy
of such order for the representative, entering and copying orders or 
nppraisement, and including case in said list, one dollar; if severa l
personal representatives qualify on the same estute, during the same
term, only the same fee shall be charged as if one had qualified, to­ 
wit: one dollar; for entering and copying an order granting a license,
and administering nn oath, where necessary, seventy-five cents : on
an application for a marriage license, for administering aud writing
certificate of oath, issuing and registering license, and n'1·ording anrl
giving receipt for certiflcate of the marr iuge, one dollar; for n search
for any thing above a year's standing, except where the clerk, nt t h e
request. of counsel, searches for papers in n pending cau-e, ten cents :
for recording a certificate nnd posting a copy thereof, under th~
second section of chapter ninety-eight, fifty ccn ts : for making out
nn injunction bond, ndrninister ing all necessary ont lj s, wiit ing pro1,cr
affidavits, making out release of errors, copying same, and endorsing on
the summons that such bond and release arc filed, seventy-five cents:
for making out any other bond, administering all necessary oaths, and
writing propE>r affidavits, fifty cents ; for issuiug a writ. in t h« nature o l' 
an ad quod dumnurn, <'i)!hty-five ccnts ; on recoivinz the copy of a cu­ 
vent, for entering such <'OPY, twenty-five cr-nts ; for i-suinp a -ummon , 
to answer a bill, with an endorsement thereon of an injunction, or of
an order of attachment, and recording return of same, thirty-five cents;
for issuing any other summons, or any writ not particularly provided
for, and for recording the return where proper to do so, twenty cents; 
for each copy of any process which goes out of the office (with such
process), to be used in serving it, one-half the fee for issuing such pro­
cess; for noting in the process book o.ny decree, order, or process ( ex­
cept a summons for a witness), and taking a receipt therefor, eighteen 
cents; for postage paid by the clerk on a decree, order, or process, and
putting in or taking out of'post ofiice same, double the amount of such 
" . . . . . " . d t " 
postage; ror entering many suit, or ma. motion ror JU gmen tor money,
all the attorneys for each party, or the appearance in proper person of 
a party having no attorney who so appears, ten cents; for endorsing
and filing each petition, declaration, bill, answer, or other written plead-
ing, each bill of exceptions, demurrer to evidence, special verdict, or
case agreed, each written notice of the defence relied on in ejectment, 
or of a motion for judgment for money, and each report of a commis-
sioner, and for entering each plea, replication, or other pleading which
is not written, fifteen cents; for endorsing anq,filing all the depositions
and affidavits of witnesses, filed on the same side at any one time, or all
the written interrogatories at one time, from one party to another, or all
the answers tiled at one time to such interrogatories, or the exceptions
filed at one time by either party to a commissioner's report, fifteen cents;
if papers be filed on the side of the plaintiffs, for which no particular
fee is allowed, a fee (not for each, but for the whole) of twenty cents;
so also, if papers be filed on the side of the defendants, for which no
particular fee is allowed, a fee (not for each, but for the whole) of
twenty cents; for issuing an attachment, with a copy of the rule or
order for the same (if sent out therewith), and recording the return
thereof, where proper to do so, thirty-five cents; for issuing a scire fa.
cias and recording the return thereof, or for issuing n commission to
examine witnesses, administering 011.th when necessary as the founda-
tion thereof, and writing affidavit, fifty cents; for nil the rules entered
in any case on the same side, at the rules for one month, where any-
thing is done on such side at said rules, besides entering or tiling a
pleading or continuing the case, twenty-five cents; where no proceed-
ings are had in a case <luring any rules except to continue it, the fee
'shall be at the rate of twenty-five cents for every quarter of a year the 
case is so continued, and no more; for docketing nny suit, or any mo-
tion for judgment for money (to be charged only once), ten cents; ex·
cept that where an action or motion is on the court docket at a quar-
terly term, if no decision or continuance be entered in it, there shall
be a fee for putting it. on the <locket at the next term, of eighteen cents;
where a jury is impaneled, for swearing the jury and witnesses, seventy
cents; where no jury is impaneled, if witnesses be examined by the court, 
for swearing such witnesses for either party, twenty cents; where a wit-
ness ckiims for his attendance, for administering an oath to him, and en-
tering and certifying such attendance, thirty cents; for administering
any oath not before provided for, and writing a certificate thereof, where
the case requires onr-, fifteen cents; for all judgments, decrees, orders
and proceedings ( except entries of pleadings and matters otherwise 
provided for), which are entered on the same day, for the same per­
sons, at the election of the clerk, three cents for every thirty words
(actually written on the minute or order book, or upon the rule book,
when final judgments are entered therein), or a specific fee of twenty
cents; for docketing, under chapter one hundred and eighty-two, a
judgment, decree, bond or recognizance, twenty-five cents; for taxing
costs in any case on one side, twenty cents; anq if the case has been
pending more than a year, then for every additional year, ten cents;
when an execution is returned by a constable in a case wherein there
is no appeal from the justice's judgment, for filing the papers, ten cents;
and if the clerk issue an execution in the case, for such execution and
all his other services in the casE', until and including the record of the
return of said execution (if it be returned before another issues), forty
cents; for any other execution, the entry in the execution book and
the record of the return, forty cents; for making out a transcript of
the record and proceedings in any case, in due form, so that the same
may be used in an appellate court, for every .thirty words three cents;
and for making out, in any other manner than copying, any paper to
go out of the office, whicll, is not otherwise provided for, the same, or
in lieu thereof, if the clerk elect, a specific fee of twenty-five cents; for
any copy to go out of the office, if it be not otherwise provided for, two
cents for every thirty words, or in lieu thereof, if the clerk elect, a spe­
cific fee of twenty cents; for annexing the seal of the court to any
paper, writing the certificate of the clerk accompanying it, and writing
certificate for the judge, if the clerk be requested so to do, thirty-seven
cents. That clerks of the county courts nnd of the corporation courts
be allowed the same fees in all cases which are now allowed by law to
the clerks of circuit courts in like cases." 
+l l. For a writ of supersedeas or other writ not used in a. county
court, fifty cents ; for making out the bond upon issuing any such writ,
administering necessary oaths and writing proper affidavits, fifty cents;
upon any such writ, for endorsing and filing the petition therefor, or
when the writ is returned, for filing it, with the return thereon, fifteen
cents; for filing the record upon an appeal or on such writ, fifteen.
cents; when tho clerk of the court of appeals issues process on an ap­ 
peal, writ. of error or supersedeas, for making out. the bond, adminis­
tering necessnry oaths, writing proper affidavits, and endorsing on the 
1,ro<'ess n ccitificate of the execution of the bond, and of the names of
the sureties therein, seventy-five cents; for docketing any case, a frf' of 
eighteen cents, or if the clerk elect, in lieu thereof, three cents for
every thirty words entered on the rule book when it is first docket.ed-c­ 
this fee for docketing to be charged hut once, except that when any
case, either at law or in equity, is on the court docket, if at any term
it be left undecided, without an order of continuance, there shall be a 
fee for putting it on the docket at the next term, of twenty-five cents;
for all judgments, decrees, orders and proceedings ( except entries of
pleadings and matters otherwise provided for), which are entered on
the same day for the same persons, at the election of the clerk, three
cents for every thirty words (actually written on the order book, or
upon the rule book, when final judgments are entered therein), or spe­
cific fee of thirty-six cents; after a. decision by the circuit court or court
of appeals, as an appellate court, for issuing an execution, making en­
try thereof in the execution book, and recording the return, seventy­
fivc cents; unless the decision be by the court of appeals, in a case
wherein the first judgment or decree was in a county or corporation
court, in which case the fee shall be one dollar; for taxing the dam­
ages to which a party may be entitled by reason of an injunction, ap­
peal, ,vrit of error or supersedeas, forty cents; for all other services,
the same foes as a clerk of a county or corporation court for similar ser­
vices, except that the clerk of a circuit court may charge, in chancery
cases, for issuing an attachment or a summons, with an endorsement
of an order of attachment or injunction, fifty cents; for process for
which no higher fee is allowed, twenty-five cents; if when a. bill or an­
swer is filed, there be filed at the same time any exhibit, on which the
clerk endorses the name of the case and the day it is filed, for every
such exhibit, five cents; when more than three exhibits are returned
with a commissioner's report (but not annexed thereto), for endorsing
and filing such exhibits, a fee, not for each but for all filed with the
same report, of twenty-five cents; if papers be filed on the side of the 
plaintiffs, for which no fee is before provided, a fee, not for each but
for the whole of such papers, of· twenty-five cents; and if papers be
filed on the side of defendants, for which no fee is before provided, a
fee, not for each but for the whole of such papers, of twenty-five cents;
for entering in the rule book the return of all process returnable to the 
same rule <lay, a fee, not for each defendant named therein, nor for
every such process, but for the whole of the defendants named in all
such process, of thirty-five cents; for all the rules entered in any case 
on the same side at the rules for one month, when anything is done on 
such side at said rules besides entering or filing a pleading or continu­
ing the case, fifty cents; for any execution, the entry of the case in the
execution book, and the record of the return, unless a higher fee be
allowed therefor, fif'ty cents. 
Fees qf clerks of court of appeals; to iohon; cost of printing records charqed :
how payment therefor secured to state. 
* 12. 'I'he same fees as the clerk of a circuit court for similar services.
In every case wherein printing is done under the nineteenth section of
the one hundred anti seventy-eighth chapter, the clerks of the court of 
appeals shall charge in such case to the appellants or plaintiffs in error
the cost of printing the record, which shall be paid or secured to be
paid to the clerk before the case is tried: provided, that if said costs 
be not paid on or before the first <lay of the second term of the court 
(after the appeal is allowed) in which the case is docketed, the appeal
shall be dismissed; which costs, so paid or secured to be paid, shall be
recovered by the party substantially prevailing. The clerk shall ac­
count for and pay into the treasury of the state the amount taxed for
printing the record; but nothing in this section shall be construed so
as to deprive the clerk of the right to charge for a. copy of the record
in a. proper case. 
Fees of sheriffs, sergeants, criers,* coroners, and constables. 
13. For serving on any person a declaration in ejectment, or an order,
notice, summons, or other process, where the body is not taken, and
making return thereof, fifty cents; except, that the fee for summoning 
a witness, shall only be twenty cents; for serving on any person an at­
tachment or other process, under which the body is taken, sixty cents:
for receiving a person in jail, twenty-five cents; and the like sum for
discharging him therefrom; for carrying a prisoner to or from jail, for
each mile of necessary travel, either in going or returning, five cents;
for taking any bond, sixty cents; where a jury is sworn in court, for
summoning and impaneling such jury, one dollar; where a jury is
summoned upon a writ of elegit or ad quod damnum, or any inquest
in vacation, for summoning them, one dollar; and for attending at the
place of their meeting, one dollar; and if the jury attend there, and
an inquis!tion be found and returned, two dollars; for serving a writ of
possession, one dollar and fifty centsj for serving R. writ of distringas
on a. judgment or decree, for personal property, if the specific thing be 
taken, one dollar and fifty cents; for keeping and supporting+ any per- 
fi d ' . il e h d hi " k . d
son con ne m Jal, 101' eac ay, t irty cents; ror eepmg an sup- 
porting any horse or live stock, distrained or levied on, seventeen cents
per day for each horse, mule or mare; and if the mare have a. suckling 
colt, no more; five cents per day for each hog or head of horned cattle,
and three cents per day for every sheep or goat; the court of any
county or corporation may, at nny time, fix or alter the rates to be
thenceforth paid in such county or corporation for keeping and sup­
porting any person in jail, or any horse or live stock; but the rates as 
fixed or altered, shall never exceed those hereinbefore mentioned.
The officer shall be repaid any necessary expense incurred by him in
keeping property not before mentioned, or in removing any property;
and when, after distraining or levying, he neither sells nor receives 
payment, and either takes no forthcoming bond, or takes one which is
not forfeited, he shall, if in no default, have (in addition to the sixty
cents for a bond, if one was taken,) a fee of three dollars, unless this
be more than the half of what his commission would have amounted 
to if he had received payment; in which case he sha.U.(whether a bond.
was taken or not) have a fee of sixty cent.", at the least, and so much
more as is necessary to make the said hnlf, The commission to be in­
eluded in a forthcoming bond, (when one is taken,) shall be five per
centum on the first three hundred dnllars of the money for which the 
distress or levy is, and two per centum on the residue of said money :
but such commission shall not he received unless the bond be forfeited, 
or the amount (including the commission) be paid to the plaintiff. An
officer receiving payment in money, or selling goods, shall have the 
like commission of five per centum on the first three hundred dollars
of the money paid, or proceeding from the sale, and two per centum 
on the residue; except, that whep such payment or sale is on an execu-
tion on a forthcoming bond, his commission shall be only half what it
would be if the execution were not on such bond. 
14.* A coroner shall have, for taking an inquest on a dead body, five 
e • • . ,1 l .
o ars ; uni- a consta e, ,or summoning a coroners jury ann tie wit- 
d 11 l
bl 
nesses, three dollars; n com-table shall have, for removing a person, by
virtue of a warrant issued under chapter fifty-one, by a justice, or one
of the overseers of the poor, (to be charged to said overseers.] four
cents for each mile of necessary travel, either in going or returning;
for serving n warrant, under chapter one hundred and forty-seven,
or taking a bond, or giving a notice thereon, thirty cents; but the fee
for summoning a witness, or a. garnishee on an attachment, shall only
be twenty cents; for other services, not otherwise provided for, a coro- 
ner and constable shnll have the same fE>es as a sheriff or sergeant for
similar services. 
}low fas are cltarged, and fee bills made 01d. 
15. The fees mentioned in this chapter shall be chargeable to the
party at whose instance the service is performed, except that fees for
entering and certifying the attendance of witnesses, and the proceed-
ings to compel payment for such attendance, shall be charged to the
party for whom the witness attended. 
For idiat services clerk is not to charqe, 
16. No clerk shall charge for taking bond from, administering oaths 
to, or copying orders as to the recommendation, appointment or qualifi-
cation of any justice, or of any sheriff, sergeant, coroner, commissioner
of the revenue, or surveyor, or of a deputy or assistant of any of them,
or of any escheator, constable, militia officer, or overseer of the poor,
or of a guardian, where his bond is in a penalty not exceeding one 
'thousand dollars, nor for making or copying orders as to binding out
poor children, or as to county levies, or grand juries, and administer­
ing the necessary oaths. 
lV hat not to he charqed for by .~heriff or serqeant,
17. No sheriff or sergeant shall charge for serving such, or any other, 
public orders, nor for summoning and impaneling grand juries, nor
for any services in ·elections, except such as a fee is allowed for under
the third title of this Code. 
18. No clerk, sheriff or sergeant, shall receive payment out of the 
. d l . f l l h
treasury tor any services ren erec m cases o t 1e commonwea t , ex· 
cept where it is allowed hereinafter, or by some other chapter. 
Fee books; by what officers kept; what entered the-rein; submitted to inspection 
of commissioners. 
l ~l. Every officer to whom the second section applies, shall keep a fee 
· l 11 l d h " " . " db
book, wherem s in le entere t o tees tor every service perrorme y 
him, and the fact of such fees being paid, or of a bill being made out
therefor, whichever shall happen first. The fee books of a clerk shall 
he submitted to the inspection of the commissioners appointed to ex-
amine the clerk's oflleo. 
Fee bills, luno and iolicn made out; to be produced before pa,1Jment is compelled;
penalties for illegal demands; luno fee bill may be quashed. 
20. No person shall be compelled to pay any foes before mentioned,
until there be produced to him a. fee bill, signed by the officer to whom
the fees are due, expressing the particulars for which such fees are
charged. And no such fee bill shall be.made out for any service not
previously performed, unless a person desire to pay before such per-
formance; in which case, there shall be mentioned in such fee bill the
nature of the service, and the fact that it. is to be performed. Nor
shall an officer, for any service, make out a fee bill for more than is
allowed therefor. Nor shall he, for the same service, attempt to ob­
tain payment a second time ; or even make out a fee Lill n second
time, unless he endorse the fact, and swear that the former Lill re­
mains unpaid. For each item in which an officer shall violate this sec­
tion, he shall forfeit five dollars to any person prosecuting therefor, and 
the circuit, county or corporation court of the county or corporation 
in which an officer resides, may, on motion, after reasonable notice to
him, quash any fee hill mnd« out by him contrary to law. 
By uihom and how bills arc made out for fees due a deceased clerk; lo whom
dclivcrcd ; hou: service in makin.1 them out is paid for. 
21. When a clerk dies, his successor shall charge, in the fre Looks of
the clerk's office, such lawful fees as do not appear to have been
charged therein, for services performed by the decedent, and make out
fee bills for J;UCh foes, and also for any fecg charged on the suid books
hy the decedent, for which he does not appear to have mndo out fee
bills in his lifetime; except that such of these as appear to said suc­
cessor to be for more than is allowed by law, shall he reduced by him 
RO far as, in his judgment, is necessary to make them legal.
22. The fee bills made out. under the preceding section shall show 
on their face that they are for fees due the decedent, and shall be
signed by his successor, and delivered to the personal representative
of such decedent, as soon as practicable. Such successor shall receive 
for his services, under this and the preceding section, such compensa­
tion as the court, whereof he is clerk, shall adjudge to be reasonable,
which shall be paid by said personal representative, or by the officer
who may collect said fee bills, out of the first proceeds of said collec­
tion. 
How bills are made out for a clerk not reappointed. 
23. In any case in which fees are chargeable by a clerk, for services
performed before the first day of July, eighteen hundred and fifty- 
two, the person entitled to said fees, although not reappointed clerk,
shall after that day have free access to the books and papers in the
clerk's office, for the purpose of making entries in a fee book and
making out fee bills for said services, and shall have the same power
to make out and sign such fee bills, and the same means to enforce the
collection thereof, and the same remedy against officers for failing to 
collect and account for said fee bills, as if said person were still in the
office of clerk.* 
lV hen and to uihom fee bills are delivered for collection; poioer (mi duty Qf col-
. lecting (lj!icer. 
24. Any officer mentioned in this chapter, or personal representative
of a deceased clerk, may deliver fee bills, duly signed, to any sheriff' or 
collector of the public taxes, other than the county or city treasurer,
who shall receive and endeavor to collect the same. A sheriff' or col- 
Iector may distrain therefor, or for any bills due himself, such property
of the person to whom the fee bills are charged, as might be levied on 
d
. f fl . " . . hi h . f 
un er a writ o err racias against rm, except as erema ter men-
tioned; and the seventh, eighth and ninth sections of the thirty­
seventh chapter shall apply to such fee bills in like manner as to taxes,
And whenever, in any county, there shall be no sheriff, and in any
township there shall be no collector, any constable of such township
shall he authorized and empowered, and it shall be his duty, when re­
quired, to collect by distress if necessary, the foes of all officers men­
tioned in this chapter. 
lV hen and hoio collecting oj/icer accounts for fee bills collected and returns those
uncollected; remedy for what officer is chargeable with; within soha; time they 
may be collected. 
25. Every sheriff collector or constable to whom such fee bills are so
delivered, shall, within six months next after such delivery, account:
therefor with the officer or personal representative entitled thereto, by
returning such as he may not have collected, with an endorsement 
thereon that the person charged with the fees has no estate in his
county or corporation, out of which the same could be made, and by
paying to such officer or representative the amount of all not so re­
turned, deducting a commission for himself of seven per centum on
said amount. If he fail so to do, judgment may be obtained, on mo-
tion, against said sheriff', collector or constable, and his sureties, and 
his and their personal representatives, or against any deputy who may
have signed the receipt for said fees, or his personal representative, fo\·
the amount with which such sheriff or collector or deputy is chargea­
ble, and damages thereon, not exceeding fifteen per centum per an­ 
num, from the expiration of said six months. Such judgments may
be, on motion in the circuit, county or corporution court of the county
or corporation in which said sheriff or collector resides, and if the fees
be due to a clerk of the court of appeals, it may be in any circuit, 
county or corporation court where such court of appeals is held. On 
such motion, any receipt for fees mentioned in t he notice, as signed by 
any person, shall be deemed to be his signature. unless an »ffidavit be
filed denying it. 
~o. No fee bill shall he collected by distress, warrant or suit, after 
five years from the end of the year in which the service was per­
formed U1at is charged therein, unless, within five years before the 
institution of such proceeding, it was returned by an officer, with such
endorsement, thereon (properly dated) as is mentioned in the preced­ 
ing section. 
Ojh",xr or icitncss to whom, for f1."CS or attendance, there i.s due any thing that is
taxed in costs; right to payment out of th~ costs. 
j7, An officer or witness to whom, for fees or attendance, any thing
iii due that is taxed in costs for which there is judgment or decree,
may, within one month after such judgment or decree, lodge in the 
clerk's office of the court wherein the same is rendered, Lis fee bills
for such fees, or certificate for such attendance. The amount due each
officer or witness for what is so lodged, shall, and the amount due the
clerk himself for fees so included, may, within the said month, be
noted in the margin of the order or execution book, opposite the en·
try of the ca ... se, An officer or witness, whoso fees or certificate may be
so noted, shall he paid the same out of the costs, by the person against
whom the judgment or decree is; and the right to such payment shall
he valid against. any assignee of the judgment 01· decree. When the
clerk issues execution in such case, he shall endorse thereon how much
of said costs is for each officer or witness whose fees or certificate may 
be so noted; and the officer collecting said costs shall pny the same ac­
cordingly to those entitled thereto. 
Tr lien ojJi<·a is entitled, Lefore pc~lormi,1g services, to lun:« u,:,,rif!/ J~Jr his fees. 
No officer mentioned in this chapter shall be obliged to perform 
. i.' id f I · l f I · i.' " 
services tor a non-rcsi ent o t us state, uu ess payment o 11.':1 iees tor
said services be secured; nor to perform services for any person against
whom he has had fee bills returned which remain unsatisfied, unless
he be secured payment of his fees for the services desired, or perform­
ance of said services be directed by a court. 
Annual account of clerks of court of appeals of money received .ful' printed
records; how mucl« they are to pay into the treasury, and when. 
29. Each clerk of tho court. of appeals shall annually render to the
auditor of public accounts an account of all money received by him 
within the preceding fiscal year, for records printed, and, after swear-
ing to the correctness of said account, shall pay into the treasury, on 
or before the fifteenth day of December next following, one-half of
said money, or of so much thereof as may not have been previously
accounted for and paid. 
Payments to officers out of the treasuri), 
30. There shall be paid out of the treasury to clerks, sheriffs, ser­
geants, coroners, and constables (after the same are duly certified to
the auditor of public accounts), as follows, to-wit: 
31. To a clerk of a county or corporation court-when the court is
sitting for the trial of a person charged with felony," two dollars and 
fifty cents; but the provisions of this section shall not apply to the
clerk of the hustings court of the city of Richmond.j 
32. To a clerk of any circuit court-for services rendered the com-
1 l 
. . ·1 h " 11 b h d " h lik
monwea t 1 m a crvi case, sue rees as wou < e c arge ror t e 1 e 
. d d t . di id 1 d " } bl" . 1
services ren ere o an m 1v1 ua ; an ror ot ier pu re services, un ess 
he receives an annual salary, such sum as the court may allow him, not
exceeding thirty dollars for one year. 
33. To a. sheriff or any other officer-for an arrest for felonv, one
dollar; and for conveying nny person, charged with or convicted orrJl~.p.47,
felony, to jail, or from one jail to another, for each mile of travel in
going and returning, ten cents, The officer shall also be allowed for 
the support of the prisoner during the removal, and for assistance to
make the arrest or affect the removal, such charge as may have been 
necessarily incurred by him, to be shown by his own affidavit; and
where he has assistance, by the affidavit also of the person employed
by him, such charge for assistance not to exceed, where it is in making
.an arrest, seventy-five cents per day for each person employed to assist
him. The said officer shall also be allowed for conveying any person
convicted of felony to the penitentiary, three dollars per day for each
day during the removal of said convict, and the actual necessary ex-
penses of himself and any guard· that may he necessary in so convey-
ing such convict, and also the actual necessary expenses, including
support of such convict. The court sentencing such convict shall
determine what guard, if any, is necessary to assist said officer in con·
veying the convict to the penitentiary. 
34. For executing a writ of venire facias, one dollar and fifty cents;
" l . . b d f . . fif d 
ror w uppmg a person y or er o a court or Justice, ty cents; an
for executing a sentence of death, five dollars, in addition to the ex- 
penses actually incurred by the officer in its execution. 
35. To a constable-for an arrest in any criminal case other than
felony, fifty cents; for summoning a witness in any criminal case,
twenty cents; for executing a search warrant, fifty cents. 
36. To a sheriff or sergean ir-for attending any circuit court and for
all services for the commonwealth, not otherwise provided for, such 
sum as the said court may allow him, not exceeding twenty dollars for
one year. 
37. To ajailor-in case of the commonwealth, for receiving a person
in jail when first committed, twenty-five cents; for keeping and sup·
porting him therein, for each day, forty cents ; for discharging him
therefrom, twenty-five cents. 
Allowances to clerks, sheriffs, or sergeants for services to the county or corpora· 
tion, and not to the state; allowance by judge of lm~tings court of Richmond
for criminal services. 
39. There shall be chargeable to each county or corporation such 
Ste. Ste.
1. Poor persons allowed services from eoun- tion for money recovers costs; how. 
1 
Payments to (!flicers by county or corporation. 
38. For attending any circuit court having jurisdiction of criminal
cases, and for all services for the commonwealth not otherwise provided
for, such sum as the said court may allow him, not exceeding thirty
dollars for one year. In Spotsylvania the allowance may be apportioned
between the jailer at the county courthouse and the jailor in Freder­
icksburg, as the court may deem just. 
CHAPTER CLXXXI. 
OF COSTS GE!'lER.A.l,LY. 
sel and officers without fees or costa. I where judgment for, or diecontinuanoe 
Security for oostB1 how required; when as to some, but not nll the defendants,
2. suit dismissed, if not given; if given 9. When suit is in name of one person for 
3. by bond remedy thereon; how obligor benefit of another. 
J in such tc;nd may obtain indemnity.
10 
~ How laws of eosts are in lerpretcd ; dia- 
4. Costs on certain motions and interlocu-
11
· cretion of courts of equity; COBts in 
tory orders. · appellate court.
6. Wlien new trial is granted. 12. } How costs are taxed by the clerk; what 
6. In personal action not on contract, where to he Includes for attorney's fee; and
verdict is for lC88 than ten dollars. 15. what else he taxes. 
7. In personal action on contract, where 16. Taxation in caeesof the commonwealth;
less is found due than twenty dollars, I who receives what ia taxed. 
exclusive of interest. 17. Taxing value of United Stutes st.Amps in
8. General rule that plU'ty for whom flnal J COBts. 
judgment is given in action or on mo- 
• • 
sum as the court thereof may allow to its clerk, or to the sheriff or 
t tt di ' ~ . d d h id 
sergean a en mg 1 t, ror services ren ere to t e sai county or cor-
poration: provided, that no such allowance shall be made under this 
section for services rendered by the said officers in criminal prosecu·
tions on behalf of the commonwealth; but the judge of the hustings
court of the city of Richmond may, with the consent of the city coun­
cil, make allowance to the sergeant of said court for criminal services,
and for similar services rendered since the fourteenth day of March,
eighteen hundred and seventy-one, to be chargeable to said city.* 
Poor persons allowed services from counsel and officers without fees or costs. 
,I. A poor person may be allowed by a court to sue or defend a suit
therein, without paying fees or costs; whereupon he shall have, from 
any counsel whom the court may assign him, and from all officers, all
needful services and process, without any fees to them therefor, except
what may be included in the costs recovered from the opposite party. 
&curity for coats, how required; when suit dismissed, if not given; if given by 
bond, remedy thereon; hou, oblig(}r in such bond may obtain indemnity. 
2. In any suit, (except where such poor person is plaintiff,) there
may be a. suggestion on the record in court, or (if the case be at rules)
on the rule docket, by a defendant, or any officer of the court, that the 
plaintiff is not a resident of this state, and that security is required of 
him. After sixty days from such suggestion, the suit shall, by order of
the court, be dismissed, unless, before the dismission, the plaintiff be
proved to be a. resident of the state, or security be given before said 
court, or the clerk thereof, for the payment of the costs and damages
which may be awarded to the defendant, and of the fees due, or to be-
come due, in such suit, to the officers of the court. The security shall 
be by bond, payable to the commonwealth, but there need only be one
obligor therein, if he he sufficient. The court before whom, or before
whose clerk, such bond is given, may, on motion by a defendant or
officer, give judgment for so much as he is entitled to by virtue of said
bond. 
3. On the motion of an obligor in such bond, after .reascnable notice
to the plaintiff, his attorney at law or agent, the court may order bond 
to be given, with sufficient security, in a penalty equal to the penalty
of the former bond, payable to the applicant, and conditioned to in-
demnify and save harmless the applicant against ·all loss or damage, in
consequence of executing the former bond. If the bond required un-
der this section be not given within such time as the court may pre-
scribe, it may order the suit to be dismissed. 
Costs on certain motions and interlocutoriJ orders. 
4. Upon any motion, (other than for a judgment for money,) or
. t l t d cl' tl t · 
upon any m er ocu ory or er or procee mg, 10 cour may give or re-
fuse costs, at, its discretion, unless it be otherwise provided. It may, 
when a demurrer is sustained to a plea in abatement, give judgment
for the plaintiff, for his full costs, to the time of sustaining it, an at- 
torney's fee only excepted; and when any other part of the pleading
is adjudged insufficient, order all costs occasioned by such insufficient
pleading to be paid by him who committed the fault. 
When new trial is granted. 
5. The party to whom a new trial is granted, shall, previous to such
new t~ial, pay the costs of the former trial, unless the court enter that
the new trial is granted for misconduct of the opposite party, who, in 
such case, may be ordered to pay any costs which seem to the court
reasonable. If the party who is to pay· the costs of the former triff,
fail to pay the same at or before the next term after the new trial is
granted, the court may, on the motion of the opposite party, set aside
the order granting it, and proceed to judgment on the verdict, or award
execution for said costs, as may seem to it best. 
6. In any personal action not on contract, if a verdict be found for
the plaintiff, on an issue or otherwise, for less damages than ten dol­
lars, he shall not recover in respect to such verdict any cost", unless the
court enter of record that the object of the action was to try a right,
besides the mere right to recover damages for the trespass or grievance
in respect of which the action was brought, or thnt the said trespass or
grievance was wilful ormalicious. 
In personal action on contract, where less is found due than twenty dollars, exclu­
sive of interest. 
i. In any personal action on contract, wherein it is ascertained that 
l . d l l . 'ft' h d 11 l . f. t
ess is ue to t 10 p ainti t an twenty o ars, exc usive o interes , 
judgment shall be given for the defendant, unless the court enter of
record that the matter in controversy was of greater value than twenty 
dollars, exclusive of interest, in which case it may give judgment for
the plaintiff (or what is ascertained to be due him, with or without
costs, as to it may seem right. 
General rule that party for whom final judgment is given in action or on motion
for moneiJ, recovers eoeu , how, where judgment for, or discontinuance a8 to 
some, but not alftl,e defendants. 
8. Except where it is otherwise provided, tho party for whom final
cl , . , · · · .,,. · d r 
gment rs given m any action, or ma motion ror JU gment tor money,
whether he be plaintiff or defendant, sha11 recover his costs against the 
opposite party; and when the action is against two or more, and there
is a judgment for, or discontinuance as to some but not all of the de· 
fendants, unless the court enter of record that there was reasonable
cause for making defendants, those for whom there is such judgment,
or as to whom there is such discontinuance (and order otherwise), they 
shall recover their costs. 
lV l1e11 suit is in name of one person for benefit of another. 
9. When a suit is in the name of one person for the benefit of any
other, if there be judgment for the defendant's costs, it shall be against
such other. 
Hoio laws of costs are interpreted; discretion of courts q( cquit.11; costs· in appel­ 
late court, 
10. The laws of costs shall not be interpreted as penal laws; nor shall
hi . } . l k b id h cl' . f t 
auyt mg in t us c iapter ta e away or a ri ge t e iscret.ion o a cour
of equity over tho subject of costs, except us follows: 
11. In every case in an appellate court, costs shall Le recovered in
such court by the party substantially prevailing." 
l'.!. The clerk of the court. wherein anv party recovers costs, shall tax
id . 
sai costs. 
13. Ile shall include in the costs, for the fee of such party's attorney
(if he have one): In a circuit, county or corporation court, unless it be 
a ease of judgment by default on a forthcoming bond, or a case other-
wise provided for, two dollars and fifty cents; in a county or corpora-
tion court, where it is a complaint of unlawful entry or detainer, or an 
action of ejectment, five dollars; in a case of the commonwealth, if no
higher fee be allowed, five dollars; in a circuit court, in an action of
ejectment, or on a writ of error or supersedeas, or an appeal (other
than in a chancery case), five dollars; in a chancery case ( other than a 
motion) in a circuit court, whether as a court of original or appellate
jurisdiction, and in a chancery case ( other than a motion) in a county 
or corporation court," fifteen dollars; in the court of appeals, twenty
dollars. 
14. Although the party recovering may have had more. than one at-
torney, only the fee of one shall be taxed in the same court. 
15. The clerk shall tax in the costs all taxes on process and all fees! 
, . 
of officers which said party appears to be chargeable with in the cases
h 
. t 1 . h l . ,J h 
W erem 10 recovery is, except t at W iere, m any court on t e same
side, more than one copy of any thing is obtained or taken out, there 
shall be taxed only the fee for one co.py of the same thing. He shall
also tax the costs of executing any order of publication made in the 
case for such party, and of any advertisement from him in the case,
d 
. 1 1 . h h d b h b 
ma em pursuance of aw, a lowing t e amount c arge y t e pu
lisher : provided, such publisher shall file with his certificate of publi- 
. . d f hi 6 d f d . . d 
cation or account, a prmte copy o is xe rates o a vertising, an
his charge shall not exceed them ; but in no event shall the cost of
printing such order or advertisement exceed the sum of five dollars
fifty cents for each legal notice from him therein which is served in
this state and not othcrw ise taxed; and the allowances to his witnesses,
and every further sum which the court may deem reasonable and direct
to be taxed for depositions taken out of the state, or for any other,
matt or. 
Ta.cation in cases qf the commomoealth ; who receives uihat is taxed, 
16. I 11 a case wherein there is Judgment or decree on behalf of the
1 
. • h
commonwea th for costs, there shall be taxed m the costs, the c arge 
actually incurred to give any notice, although it be more than fifty
cents; and the foes of attorneys and other officers for services, and 
allowances for attendance, as if such fees and allowances were payable
out of tho treasury. What is so taxed for fees of or allowance to any
person, shall be paid to him by the sheriff or officer who may receive
said costs, unless such person shall previously have received payment
thereof, in which case the same shall be paid into the treasury. 
17. In all legal proceedings in which stamps are required by the laws
of the United States, the value of such stamps shall be deemed part
of the costs, and taxed accordingly. 
JUDGMENT LIENS .A.ND EXECUTIONS. 
CH. 182. Of enforcing decrees and orders; docketing judgments and other
liens of the like nature; the effect of such liens; and the Iirni­
tation and proceedings on judgments. 
183. Of the assignment of homestead to exempt property from sale for
debt ; of executions for specific property; and of writs for sal­
of property under execution. 
184. )leans of enforcing recoveries of money otherwise than by levy­
ing an elcgit or fleri facias, 
185. Of forthcoming bonds. 
OF ENFORCE''iG DECREES AND ORDERS i DOCKETISG JllDGllfE!'ITS AXD OTHER
LIENS OF THE LIKE NATUREj TUE EFFECT or St:CH I.IESSj :\~D TOE
LBIITATION OF PROCEEDINGS ON JUDGMENTS. 
s«. s«. 
I. Decrees and orders for property or money
have effect of judgments; embraced 
by word "judgments," where used un­
der this title. 
2, How execution Issues on decree or order
for money to be paid into court, or u 
bank or place of deposit. 
Title 83. 
CHAPTER CLXXXII. 
3
} or docketing a judgment, bond or recog- 
4 • nizanee ; pennlty on clerk tor failure
· in duty. 
5. Lis pendene to be docketed.
6." Jud~ent a lien on all debtor's real es­ 
tate, from what time.
7. Operation of judgment before this act 
commences, as age.inst purchaser, ere­
ditora, heirs or devlsees. 
8. Judgment not n. lien ngninst a purchaser
for value without notice, unless dock­ 
eted. 
9. Jurisdiction of equity to enforce judg­
ment lien; :i?OWer to decree n sale. 
10. As between alienees of different parts of
estate Iiable. 
11. When judgment creditors share ratablj ,
12. l Limitntion of proceedings to enforce 
IS. f judgments.
14. Limitation of motion for officer's fnilure 
to return execution. 
Decrees and orders for'property or money have <'jTect of j11d,qme11ts: cmbraca! 
by word "judgment," where used under this title. t 
1. A decree for land or specific personal property, and a decree or
order requiring the payment of money, shall have the effect of a judg­
ment for such land, property, or money, and be embraced by the word 
"judgment," where used in any chapter under this title; but a party 
may proceed to carry into execution a decree or order in chancery
other than for the payment of money, as he might have done if this
and the following section had not been enacted. 
How execution issues on decree or order for money to he paid into court, or a
bank or place of deposit. 
2. The persons entitled to the benefit of any decree or order requir-
i ng the payment of money shall be deemedj udgmen t creditors, al though
the :r;noney be required to be paid into a court, or n bank or other place 
of deposit. In such case, an execution on the decree or order shall 
make such recital thereof, and of the parties to it, as may be necessary
to designate the case; and if a time be specified in the decree or order
within which the payment is to be made, the execution shall not. issue
until the expiration of that time. 
'?f docl.:eti11g a jucf.qmcnt, bond, or recognizance; penaltJJ on clerk for failure
fo duty. 
3. In the following section the word "judgment" shall include any
hond or recognizance which has the force of a judgment, 
4. The clerk of each county and corporation court shall keep in his
office, in a well bound book, a judgment docket, in which he shall~- 
docket without delay any judgment in this state, when he shall be
required to do so by any person interested, on such person's delivering
to him an authenticated abstract of it; and shall docket every judg- 
ment rendered in his court, and every judgment the abstract of which
may be delivered to him by the clerk of the circuit court of his county 
or corporation; and the clerk of the circuit court of each county and
corporation in this slate shall, without delay, deliver to the clerks of
the county and corporation courts of his county and corporation, an
authenticated abstract of every judgment rendered in his court or
office. In such docket there shall be stated, in separate columns, the
date and amount of the judgment, the date of docketing it, the alter-
native value of any specific property recovered by it, the amount and
date of any credits thereon, with the names, description, and residence
of the parties, so far as they appear in his office or in such abstract, and
when paid off or discharged, in whole 01; in part, the time thereof.
Every judgment shall, so soon as it is docketed, be indexed by the clerk
in the name of each defendant therein; and unless so indexed, it shall 
:10t be regarded as docketed; and the fact of the payment or discharge
of said judgment, either in whole or in part, shall be entered 11.s afore-
said by the clerk upon the return of an execution showing such satis-
faction, oither in whole or in part, or upon the certificate of the clerk
from whose office such execution issued, that the same has been satis- 
fied, either in whole or in part, or upon the direction of the judgment
creditor or his attorney; and in all cases where payment or satisfaction
shall be made, which does not appear by the return of an execution
to the office of the clerk where the judgment is docketed, it shall be
the duty of tho judgment creditor, either by himself, his agent or
attorney, to cause such payment or satisfaction, either in whole or in 
part, to be entered on the said judgment docket within ninety days 
after the same is made; and for any failure so to <lo. such judgment
creditor shall be liable in damages to any person injured thereby; and 
for the additional service hereby imposed on the clerk, of entering
satisfaction on his judgment docket, he shall be entitled to charge a
fee of twenty cents, to be paid by the judgment debtor. And if the
clerk fail to do any thing required of him by this section, he shall pay
a fine of not less than thirty nor more than three hundred dollars to
any person who will prosecute therefor.* 
Lu pendens to be doclieta], 
.5. ~ o lis pendens or attachment against the estnte of a non-residen t.
shall bind or affect a purchaser of real estate, without actual notice 
cause, the general object thereof, the court in which it is pending. :1 
description of the land, and the name of the person whose estate is
intended to be affected thereby, shall be left with the clerk of the 
court of the county or corporation in which the land is situate, who
shall forthwith record the said memorandum in the deed book, an-I 
index the same by the name of the person aforesaid. 
Judgment a lien on all debtor's real estate; from wl,at time. 
t 6. Every judgment for money rendered in this state heretofore, or
hereafter, against any person, shall be a lien on all the real estate of or
to which such person shall be possessed or entitled, at or after the date
of such judgment, or if it was rendered in court, at or after the com­
mencement of the term at which it was so rendered, except as follows: 
Operation of judgment before this ad commences, as against purchaser, creditors,
heirs or devisees. 
7. A judgment rendered before the commencement of this act shall,
as against a purchaser or creditor,· claiming under a deed made or judg­
ment obtained before the day of such commencement, or as against
the heirs or dev isees of a person dying before that day, affect no more­
of such real estate than would have been liable thereto under the laws
in force on the day before this chapter takes effect. 
Judgment not a lien against a purchaser for value witlt01lt notice, unless docketed.
8. No judgment shall be a lien on real estate as against a purchaser 
thereof for valuable consideration without notice, unless it Le docketed
according to the third and fourth sections of this chapter, in the county
or corporation wherein such real estate is, either within sixty days next
after the date of such judgment, or fifteen days before the conveyance
of said estate to such purchaser.j 
9. The lien of a judgment may always be enforced in a court of
equity. If it appear to such court that the rents and profits of the 
real estate subject to the lien will not satisfy the judgment in five yenrs,
the court may decree the said estate, or any part. thereof, to he i;:old,
and the proceeds applied to the discharge of the judgment, 
10. Where the real estate liable to the lien of a judgment is more
h fli 
' · f } d · f , h b
t an su cient to satis y t ie Bame, an it or any part o 1t as een 
aliened, as between the alienees for value, that which was aliened lust,
shall, in equity, be first liable, and so on with other successive aliena- 
tions, until the whole judgment is satisfied. And as between alienees
who are volunteers under such' judgment debtor, the same rule as to
the order of liability shall prevail; but any part of such real estate re-
tained by the debtor himself shall be first liable to the satisfaction of 
the judgment. 
t L ,I' d:11-' ,I' l bl 
As beuaeen a Ienees o., i_ut.rent parts 0 estate ia 1'. 
When judgmmt creditors share ratably.
11. Where two or more judgments are rendered against the same 
person, and the lien thereof on his real estate commences on the same
day, the creditors having such judgments shall be entitled to satisfac­ 
tion out of said real estate ratably. 
Limitation of proceedings to enforce judgments.*
12. On a judgment, execution may be issued within a. year, and n 
scire facias or action may be brought within ten years after the date of
the judgment; and where execution issues within the year, other exe- 
cutions may be issued, or a scire facias or action may be brought within!
ten years from the return day of an execution on which there is no re· 
ffi
. hi f } d 
turn by an o cer, or wit in twenty years rom t re return ay of an
execution on which there is such return; except thnt where the scire
facias or action is against the personal representative of a decedent, it
shall be brought within five years from the qualification of such repre- 
sentative: provided, that in computing time under this section, there
· f fl · f · b · d f h . 
shall, as to writs o err acias, e omitte rom sue computation the
time elapsed between the first day of January, eighteen hundred and
sixty-nine, and the passage of this act : provided nothing herein con- 
tained shall be so construe_d as to affect the question of costs in any
writ of scire facias now pending.j 
13. No execution shall issue, nor any scire facias or action be brought,
. d . hi h l fi h lh f 
on a. JU gment m t is state, ot er t ran or t e commonwea t , a ter
the time prescribed by the preceding section, except that, in computing
the time, any time during which the right to sue out execution on the 
judgment is suspended by the terms thereof, or by legal process, shall
be omitted; and the eighteenth, nineteenth, twentieth, twenty-first
and twenty-second sections of chapter one hundred and forty-six shall
apply to the right to bring such action or scire faeias in like manner as 
to any right, action or scire facias mentioned in those sections; and ex­ 
cept that when the judgment is for the penalty of a. bond, but to be
discharged by the payment of what is then ascertained, and such sums
as may be afterwards assessed or found due upon a scire facias on the
judgment, assigning a further breach of the bond, such scire facias may
be brought within ten years after such breach. 
OF THE ASSIGNMENT OF HOMESTEAD, TO EXEMPT PROPERTY FROM SALE FOR
DEBT j OF EXECUTIONS FOR SPECIFIC PROPERTY j .\ND OF WRITS FOR SALIC
OF PROPERTY UNDER EXECUTION. 
Ste. se« 
}
Of exemption of homestead and certain I Reoordot.ion of homestead deeds in eor- 
1. personal property from sale for debt; 
2· value of estate exempt; exception.
10· 
18
I poration courts of cities or towns; ju- 
~ riediction of corporation courts over 
3. Bale under mortgage, trust, or other se- • 1 the subject conferred on circuit court
curity, not to be interfered with; ) of Richmond city. 
4• 
Limitation of motion for officer's failure to return execution.
14. A motion against an officer or his sureties, or his or their repre­ 
sentatives, for a failure to return an execution, shall be made within
ten years from the return day thereof, tnd not after. 
CHAPTER CLXXXIII. 
waiver; its form. 20.} 
L How benefit of homestead to be secured. 2l. As to issuing ex~cutions generally. 
s. S 22. 
6. ,Vben real estate is to be sold, bow home- 23. ~
stead laid off; excessive homestead 
provided against. 25. 
1
24. Of executions for specific property, 
How homestead mny be encumbered or 26. Writ of clegit abolished.
aliened. 27. ~ 
9. Provision in case of divorce. 1 Return of fieri facias to be entered on 
8. Aft.er death, how long homestead con- to Of the writ of fieri facin.s.
tinues. 31. 
10. How homestead may be assigned to wi- judgment and execution docket; tran-
dow and children; may be sold by or- 32. script to be returned to clerk from 
der of circuit court. 33. whose office writ issued ; party to cause
11. If real estute not sufficient, personal pro- J fieri fneius to be docketed; penalty for 
~ pcrty may be uselgned. I failure to docket ; foe of cl~~k. 
1 •. } Personal property for homestead to be 3-1 } Remedy.f\8'runstpurehaserfa1hnttocom- 
1:J. held as real estate '
35· 
pl~ with te~s ot first sale; of the 
1 J. • ' · wnt of venditioni exponas, 
15. When bomestend is not exempt from
36 
} What money received under execution to 
levy or other process. • be paid debtor: officer not obliged to 
) Whore homestead hBS net been set apart, 
31. 
go out of his county to pay money,
}~· ~ and creditor is enforcing bis judgment, 38.} After nn execution has issued, provision 
• · ~ what proceodings mRy be had, 39. for others; bow execution may be
40. quashed, 
Exemption of homestead and certain personal property from sale for debt;*
value of estate exempt ; exception, 
1. Every householder or head of a family shall, as provided for by
the constitution, be entitled, in addition to the articles exempt from 
levy or distress for rent by statute, on the day the present constitution
of Virginia went into effect, to hold exempt from levy, seizure, garni­
sheeing or sale, under any execution, order, or other process, issued on
any demand foe any debt heretofore or hereafter contracted, his real
and personal property, or either, including money and debts due him,
whether heretofore or hereafter acquired or contracted, to the value of
not exceeding two thousand dollars, to be' selected by him : provided,
that such exemption shall not extend to any execution, order, or other
process, issued on any demand, in the following cases: first, for the
purchase price of said property, or any part thereof; second, for ser­
vices rendered by a laboring person or a mechanic; third, for liabilities
incurred by any public officer, or officer of a court, or any fiduciary, or
any attorney at law, for money collected; fourth, for a lawful claim for
any taxes, levies, or assessments, accruing after the first day of June,
eighteen hundred and sixty-six; fifth, for rent hereafter accruing;
sixth, for the legal or taxable fees of any public officer, or officers of a
court, hereafter accruing. 
2. The foregoing section shall not be construed as subjecting the
property hereby exempted, or any portion thereof, to any lien by rea-
son of any execution levied on property which has been subsequently
restored to the defendant, or judgment rendered or docketed on and
after the seventeenth day of April, eighteen hundred and sixty-one,
and before the second day of March, eighteen hundred and sixty-
seven, for any debts contracted previous to the fourth day of April,
eighteen hundred and sixty-five, except debts of the character men-
tioned in either of the above first three exceptions. 
Sale under mortgage, trust, or other security, not to be interfered with; waiver in
bond, ttc.; form of waiver. 
3. Nothing centained in this act shall be construed to interfere with
the sale of tbe property aforesaid, or any portion thereof, by virtue of
any mortgage, deed of trust, pledge, or other security thereon. In all
cases where a debtor or contractor shall declare in the body of the
bond, note, or other evidence of the debt or contract, that he waives,
as to such debt or contract, the exemption from liability of the pro-
perty which he may be entitled to bold exempt under the provisions
of this act, the said property, whether previously set apart or not, shall
then be liable to be subjected for such debt or contract, under legal
process, in like manner and to the sameextent as other estate of the
said debtor or contractor: provided, that when such debtor or con­
tractor is possessed of other estate than that which he may be entitled
to hold exempt from liability, in the county in which suit is brought
against him, or the property set apart under the provisions of this act 
may be, then such other estate shall be subjected and exhausted before
that which the said debtor or contractor may be entitled to hold ex­
empt, is sold: and provided further, that no waiver under this section
shall apply to any property exempt from -levy or distress for rent under
any statute in force at the time of the adoption of the existing consti­
tution, and not abrogated by it. The following, or equivalent words,
shall be sufficient to operate as the waiver provided for in the previous
section : " I ( or we) hereby waive the benefit of my { or our) homestead
exemption as to this debt," {obligation, or contract, as the case may be). 
How benefit of homestead to be secured.
4. To be entitled to the full benefit of a homestead, exempt from 
levy, seizure, garnisheeing, or sale, said householder or head of a family
shall declare, by deed duly recorded in the deed book of the county
in which such homestead, or the greater part thereof, is situated, his
intention to claim such homestead, with a description of the property
so claimed as such homestead; or if it is intended to claim such home­
stead in property of greater value than is specified in the first section
of this act, or in property held in joint tenancy, coparcenary, or in
common, a reasonable certain description of the property out of which
such homestead is intended to be claimed: provided, that in case such
intent shall be expressed in the deed or will conveying such property,
it shall not be necessary for the householder or head of a family to exe­
cute a deed declaring such intent. A homestead may be claimed in
equitable as well 88 legal estates. 
5. Property subject to mortgages, deeds of trust, or other liens, shall
be subject to the claim of homestead upon the payment or discharge
of such liens; but said property, so far 88 the liens mentioned in the
second section are concerned, shall be subject to the claim of home­
stead without .the payment or discharge of such last named liens. If
partition is necessary in any case in order to ascertain the homestead,
the same may be had as now prescribed by law, and the commissioners
appointed to make partition shall, after the partition is made, report
also to the court appointing them, by metes and bounds, the home­
stead chosen by the party entitled thereto-which report, when con­
firmed by said court, shall be recorded. 
When real eeuu« i8 to be sold, how homestead laid off; excessive homestead pro­ 
vided agaimt. 
6. Whenever it is proposed to sell, extend, or rent, by decree or
other legal process, the real estate of any householder or head of a
family, and the homestead shall not have been laid off as prescribed by
law, such householder or head of a family may thereupon make selec­
tion of a homestead, by deed, as prescribed in section four of this act;
but should such homestead, or any homestead selected under this act,
be charged to be excessive, the court by whose order the same is di­
rected to be sold, extended, or rented, shall appoint three disinterested
commissioners, being freeholders, not connected with any of the par­
ties, who, after being duly sworn, shall examine the premises, and set
apart therein a homestead for the debtor and his family, and return a 
written description of the same to the court, in order that the same
may be recorded as the homestead. When the real estate proposed to 
be sold, extended,* or rented is of greater value than the said house­
holder or head of a family may be entitled to as a homestead, and is so
situated that a. homestead cannot be set apart therein, the said com­
missioners shall report the facts to the court under whose order they
are acting; whereupon, the court shall order a sale of the whole tract,
and out of the proceeds of the sale shall order to be invested such
amount as the said householder or head of a family may be entitled to
as a homestead, in the purchase, under his direction, of a homestead
for him and his family, and the surplus to be applied to the payment
of the debt for satisfaction of which the land was sold. For good cause
shown, the court may, upon the return of the assignment or appraise­
ment aforesaid, appoint new commissioners and order a re-assignment
or re-appraisement of the property claimed as a homestead, and the
said commissioners shall return their proceedings to said court for its
confirmation or rejection. But in every case where such commissioners
shall make an assignment of homestead under this section, they shall
make it out of such part of the property from which it is to be taken
as may be selected by the party entitled thereto, and the homestead
so purchased or assigned, as aforesaid, shall be duly recorded as afore­
said. 
How homestead may be encumbered or aliened. 
7. A homestead so set apart or purchased shall not be mortgaged,
encumbered, or aliened by the owner, if a married man, except by the 
joint deed of himself and wife, executed and acknowledged after the
manner of conveyances of lands of a married woman; but the husband
may, without the consent of his wife, mortgage such homestead for the
purchase money thereof, or for buildings erected thereon. A homestead
may be sold by the joint net of the husband and wife, or by the act of the
householder, if unmarried, and the proceeds invested in another home-
stead; but in no case shall the purchaser be required to see to the ap­
plication of the purchase money. But the acquisition of a new estate
of homestead shall determine any prior or other estateof homestead,
and unless, upon the face of the deed under which it is held, it is ex­ 
pressed to be such homestead, it shall be so declared, by deed duly re­
corded in like manner as in the case of an original selection of home-
stead. 
After death, how long homestead continues.
8. The homestead provided in this act shall continue after his death, 
for the benefit of the widow and children of the deceased until her
death or marriage, and after her death or marriage, for the exclusive 
0benefit
of his minor children, until the youngest child becomes twen­ 
ty-one yea.rs of age; after which period it shall pass, according to the
law of descents, as other real estate, or as may be devised by said
householder, not being subject to dower, yet subject to all the debts of 
the said householder or head of a family. 
9. If the wife obtain a divorce from the husband on account of his
fault or misconduct, the title to the homestead shall be decreed to the
wife and minor children as if he were <lead. 
How homestead may be assigned to widow and children ; may be sold by order of 
circuit court. 
10. If any such householder or head of a family shall have departed
this life since the adoption of the present constitution, leaving a widow
or infant children, and such homestead shall not have been selected or
assigned in the lifetime of said householder, she, if remaining unmar­
ried, or they, if she marry or die before such selection, shall be entitled
to claim the same; and the court shall appoint commissioners to assign
the same in the same manner that commissioners are appointed to as­
sign dower; and the homestead so assigned shall be held by the widow
and children to the extent and on the same conditions prescribed in
section eight of this act; and it shall be lawful, when the homestead
becomes vested in a widow and minor children, or any of them, for the
circuit court of the county or city in which such homestead lies, upon
petition filed for that purpose by the widow, or infants by their next
friend, to order a sale of the homestead, and the investment of the
proceeds thereof in another homestead, or otherwise, when it appears
to the court that it is for ther'beneflt of the parties interested that the
same shall be done. All homesteads under this section shall be duly
recorded as aforesaid. 
If real estate not sufficient, personal property may be assigned. 
11. If in any case the homestead selected under the preceding sec­
tion is not of the value of two thousand dollars, such householder or
head of a family, in addition to the articles exempt from levy or dis­
tress for rent by statute on the day the present constitution went into
effect, may select, set apart, and hold, exempt from levy, seizure, gar­
nisheeing, 01· sale, so much of his personal property, including money
and debts due him, as, added to the value of such homestead, will
make the sum of two thousand dollars; and if such householder or
head of a family has not selected and does not claim a homestead un­
der this act, he may, in addition to the articles exempt from levy or
distress for rent on the day the present constitution went into effect,
select, set apart, and hold, exempt from levy, seizure, garnisheeing, or
sale, so much of his personal property, including money and debts due
him, as will not exceed in value two thousand dollars; and he shall, in
either case, in writing, designate the personal property so selected by
him, and each article thereof, affixing thereto his cash valuation of
each article, and shall return such writing to the clerk of the county
court wherein he resides, to be recorded. 
Personal property to be held as real estate. 
12. The personal property selected under the next preceding section 
shall be held in the same manner, under the same limitations, and
subject to the same conditions as.to incumbrance and sale, and in all
other respects as provided for by this act in the case of the homestead 
to be set apart under it; and in case no such selection shall have been
made, and the householder be dead, leaving a widow or infant chil­ 
dren, she may, if unmarried, make such selection, or, if she be dead or
married, the infant children may, by their guardian or their next
friend, make the same, and the same shall be recorded and held and
distributed, as provided for in the case of a homestead so set apart. 
13. When there shall be a sale and re-investment of the personal
property selected under the eleventh and twelfth sections of this act,
a designation thereof shall, in like manner, as provided by said ele-
venth section, be returned to the clerk of the county court of the
county in which the householder or head of a family resides, to be re­
corded. 
14. If the plaintiff, in an execution, distress warrant, or attachment,
shall be dissatisfied with the valuation of the property selected as pro-
vided for in the eleventh and twelfth sections of this act, upon appli-
cation, the judge of the county court, in which the property is, shall
appoint three disinterested freeholders, who shall assess the value of
such property upon oath, and if found to exceed the amount to which
the householder, head of a family, widow, or minor children may be
entitled, the surplus shall be liable to the execution, warrant, or at­ 
tachment. 
When homestead is not exempt from levy or other process.
15. Provided, that the homestead and property selected and set 
apart as aforesaid, under the provisions of this act, shall not be exempt
from levy, seizure, garnishee, or sale, upon any· execution, order, or
other process, issued on any demand, in the following cases: first, for
the purchase price of said property, or any part thereof; second, for
services rendered by a laboring person or a mechanic; third, for liabil-
ities incurred by any public officer, or officers of a court, or any fidu- 
ciary, or any attorney at law, for money collected; fourth, for a lawful 
claim for any taxes, levies, or assessments accruing after the first day
of June, eighteen hundred and sixty-six; fifth, for rent hereafter ac­
cruing; sixth, for the legal or taxable fees of any public officer, or offi-
cers of a. court, hereafter accruing; seventh, for any debt or contract
as to which the debtor or contractor has waived, as hereinbefore pro-
vided, the exemption to which he is entitled under this act. 
Where homestead has not been set apart, and creditor is enforcing his judgment;
what proceedings may be had. 
16. Any householder or head of a family. who shall have failed to
select and set apart a homestead and personal property which he
claims to hold as exempt from levy or sale, according to the provisions
of the foregoing sections, and who desires to avail himself of the ben-
efit of the exemptions provided for in this act against a creditor pro­
ceeding to enforce the lien of his judgment or execution, must file an
inventory, under oath, in the court where the judgment, decree or or-
der is obtained, or with the officer holding the execution, of the whole 
of the real and personal property owned by him at any time before
the sale of the property; and it shall be the duty of the commlesioner
acting under such order or decree, or the officer to whom the execu­ 
tion is directed, to apply forthwith to the judge of the county court in
which such property is, either in term time or vacation, who shall ap­
point three disinterested freeholders of the county or city, which free­
holders, after being duly sworn by said officer, shall appraise said
property at its cash value. 
17. Upon such inventory and appraisement being completed, 'the
said householder or head of a family claiming the benefit of such ex­ 
emption, or his authorized agent, may select from such inventery an
amount of such. property, not exceeding, according to such appraise­
ment, the amount or value herein exempted, and the said officer or
creditor may proceed to en fore the lien of said judgment or execution
upon the residue of the said property, free from such claim for exemp­
tion. 
Recordation of homestead deeds in corporation court of cities or towns; juri&dic­ 
tion of corporation courts over the S!1bject, conferred on circuit court of Rich­
mond city. 
18. In case the property or estate of a householder or head of a
family desired to be set apart or protected, under the provisions of the
preceding sections, shall be situate in a city or town having a corpora­
tion court, then the deed, declaring the intention of the party to claim
such exemption, or the writing designating the personal property to
be selected, or designating the property in which the proceeds of the
sale of such personalty is re-invested, shall be recorded in the deed
book of the corporation court wherein other deeds are recorded. 
19. All the powersand duties by the said sections conferred on the
judges of the county courts, as to property lying in the several coun­
ties of the commonwealth, shall, as to persons and property within the
jurisdiction of corporation courts, be conferred on the said corporation
courts, and in the city of Richmond, on the circuit court thereof. 
As to issuing executions generally.~
20. Against a corporation such executions may issue as against a 
. . 
. . . 
natural person. And where a Judgment ts against several persons
jointly, executions thereon shall be joint against them all. 
21. On a judgment for money, there may be issued a writ of fieri 
f . t N . f l . e. • l 11 b . d I f . 
acias. o writ o evari racias s 1a e issue rerea ter , nor a writ
of distrlngas, except on a judgment for specific personal property. 
22. Where an execution issues on a judgment, for the benefit, in
whole or in part, of any person other than the plaintiff, if the fact a.p­
pear by the record, the clerk shall, in the execution, or an endorse­ 
ment thereon, state the extent of the interest therein of such person;
and he ( either in his own name or that of the plaintiff} may, as a party
injured, prosecute a. suit or motion against the officer. 
23. On judgments for the recovery of· specific property, real or per-
1 
. f . . ~ h ifl hi h
sonar, a. writ o possession may issue tor t e speer c property, w ic 
shall conform to the judgment, as to the description of the property
and the estate, title or interest recovered; and there may also be issued 
a writ of fieri facias, * for the damages or profits, and costs.
24. When the judgment is for personal property, the plaintiff may, 
at his option, have a fieri facias for the alternative value (instead of a
writ of possession), and the damages and costs. Or he may have a 
writ of distringa.s.
25. If a distringas issue, the court, on the motion of either party, 
may order it to be superseded as to the specific thing, and to be exe-
cuted in lieu thereof for the alternative value_ Such value, if not
fixed in the judgment, may be ascertained by a jury, to be forthwith
impaneled. 
Writ of elegit aboli.9hed.
26. From and after this date no writ of elegit shall issue upon any 
judgment heretofore or hereafter rendered for money, or for the re-
covery of specific property.t 
.Of ths writ of fiere facias, 
l 27. By a writ of fieri faciaa, the officer shall be commanded to make
the money therein-mentioned out of the goods and chattels of the per· 
son against whom the judgment is. The writ may be levied as well on
the current money and bank notes, as on the goods and chattels of
such person; and as against purchasers for valuable consideration,
without notice, and creditors, shall bind what it may be levied on only
from the time that the writ is delivered to the officer to be executed. 
US. If the levy be upon gold or silver coin, the same shall be ac­
counted for at its par value as so much money made under the execu­
tion. If it be upon bank notes, and the creditor will not take them
at their nominal value, they shall be sold and accounted for as any
other property taken under execution. 
29. Every officer shR.11 endorse on each writ of fieri facias the year,
month, day, and time of day, he receives the same. If he fail to do so, 
the judgment creditor may, by motion, recover against him and his
sureties, jointly and severally, in the c~urt in which the judgment was 
i 
rendered, a. sum not exceeding fifteen per centum upon the amount
of the execution. 
30. Of writs of fieri fscias, that which was first delivered to the offi­
cer, though two or more be delivered on the same day, shall be first 
levied and satisfied, and where several such executions are delivered
to the officer at the same time, they shall be satisfied pari passu, 
31. Upon a writ of fieri facias, the officer shall return whether the
money therein mentioned is or cannot be made; or if there be only
part thereof which is or cannot be made, he shall return the amount
of such part. With every execution under which money is recovered,
he shall return a statement of the amount received, including his fees
and other charges; and such amount, except the said fees and charges,
he shall pay to the person entitled. 
Return of .fieri f 'acias to be entered on judgment and execution docket; transcript
to be returned to clerk from whose office writ issued] party to caiue .fieri facias
to be docketed; penalty for failing to docket; fee of clerk. 
32. Upon the return of said writ of fieri facias satisfied, in whole or
in part, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court to which said
fieri facias is returnable, to enter upon the judgment docket, as well as
the execution docket, the return of said officer; and in case a. judg­
ment or writ of fieri faeias issued thereon, or any part thereof, is col­
lected by the party entitled to receive the same, or his attorney, it shall
be the duty of said party, or attorney, to cause to be entered upon such
.dockets, (when the judgment is docketed,') the satisfaction thereof,
when paid in full, and when paid only in part, to enter upon the same
a credit for the amount so paid. When a judgment, or a. writ of fieri
facias issued thereon, is returned satisfied, in whole or in part, and said
judgment is docketed in a. court or courts other than that from which
said writ issued, it shall be the duty of the plaintiff, or his attorney, in
such case, to furnish the clerk of the court or courts in which said
judgment is docketed, a transcript of the return in said fieri facias, cer­
tified by the clerk of the court from whose office the said writ issued;
and where the judgment is otherwise settled, in whole or in part, the
said plaintiff shall furnish the clerk of the court where the same is
docketed, a memorandum of such settlement, whose duty it shall be 
to enter such return or memorandum upon the judgment docket in
his office. If a clerk, or a plaintiff, shall fail to do anything herein re­
quired of him, he shall pay a fine of not less than thirty nor more than
three hundred dollars, to any person aggrieved by said default. For
services herein mentioned, the clerk shall receive a fee of twenty-five
cents, to be charged in the costs of suit. 
Remedy against purchaser failing to comply witli terms of sale; of the writ of
»enditiani exponas. 
33. If, at any sale by an officer, the purchaser shall not comply with
the terms of sale, the officer may sell the property, either forthwith or
under a new advertisement, or return that the property was not sold
for want of bidders. If, on a resale, the property be sold for less than
it sold for before, the first purchaser shall be liable for the difference 
to the creditor, so far as is required to satisfy him, and to the debtor
for the balance. This section shall not prevent the creditor from pro­ 
ceeding as he might have done if it had not been enacted. 
3•. When it appears, by the return on an execution, that property
taken to satisfy it remains unsold, a writ of venditioni exponas may
issue, whereupon the like proceedings shall be had as might have been
had on the first execution; except, that if it issue upon a return of no
sale for want of bidders, or of a sufficient bid, the notice shall state the
fact, and that the sale will be made peremptorily. 
35. If an officer taking property under execution die before the sale
thereof, and there be no deputies ( of such officer) acting in the case, 
upon a suggestion of the fact, a writ of venditioni exponas may be
directed to such sheriff or other officer of the county or corporation
wherein the property was taken, as may be in office at the time the
writ issues. Whereupon, the representatives of the officer so dying,
shall deliver the property to the officer to whom the writ is directed.
If they fail so to do, on his producing the said writ and executing a
receipt for the property to them, or if, after three months from the
death of such officer, he have no personal representative, upon a return
of the fact, execution may be issued, by virtue of which such sheriff or
other officer of the county or corporation may seize the said property.
An officer seizing or receiving property under this section, shall sell it
and account therefor as if the levy on it had been by himself. 
What mone1J received under execution is to he paid debtor; officer not obliged to
go out of his county to pay money. 
36. ,vhen an officer has received money under execution, if any sur-
plus remain in his hands after satisfying the execution, such surplus 
shall be repaid to the debtor; and if the debtor, or his personal repre-
sentative, obtain an injunction or supersedeas to an execution, in whole
or in part, before money received under it, or any part of it, is paid 
over to the creditor, the officer shall repay such debtor the money so
received and not so paid over, or so much thereof as the injunction or
supersedeas may extend to, unless the said process otherwise direct. 
37. No officer receiving money under execution, when the person to
h 
. . bl id . diff t t . fr
w om it is paya e resi es m a. meren coun y or corporation om, 
that in which the officer resides, shall be liable to have any judgment
rendered against him or his sureties for the non-payment thereof, until 
a demand of payment be made of such officer in his county or corpora-
tion, by such creditor or his attorney at law, or some person having a. 
written order from the creditor. 
After one execution has issued, provision for others] hoio execution may be
quashed. 
38. Subject to the limitations prescribed by chapter one hundred and
· h b · · . h 
eig ty-two, a party o tam mg an execution may sue out ot er exeou-
tions at his own costs, though the return day of a former execution has
not arrived; and may sue out other executions at the defendant's costs,? 
where on a former execution there is a return by which it appears that
the writ has not been executed, or that it or any part of the amount 
thereof is not levied, or that property levied on has been discharged
by legal process which does not prevent a new execution on the judg­
ment. In no case shall there be more than one satisfaction for the
same money or thing. 
39. I( a tenant by elegit be lawfully evicted, or the land extended
he lawfully sold, and any part of the judgment be unpaid, or when 
property sold under execution, or its value is recovered from an obligor
in an indemnifying bond given before such sale, or from a purchaser
having a right of action on such bond, the person having such judg­
ment or execution, or his personal representative, may, by scire facias
or motion, after reasonable notice to the person, or the personal repre­
sentative of the person, against whom the judgment or execution was,
obtain a new execution against him, in the latter case, for the amount
for which the property sold, with interest from the day of sale, and in
the other cases, for so much of the judgment as remains unpaid. Such
scire facias shall be sued out, or such motion made, within five years
after the right to sue out or make the same. 
40. A motion to quash an execution may, after reasonable notice to
the adverse party, be heard and decided on, if a justice issued the exe­ 
cution, by such justice or the court to which he belongs, and in other
cases, by the court whose clerk issued the execution, or if it was from 
a circuit court, by the judge thereof in vacation. 
CHAPTER CLXXXIV. 
KEA.NS OF ENFORCING RECOVERIES OF KONEY OTHERWISE THAN BY l'IBRI
FACIAS, 
s«: Su.
1 
J Where a person is in execution or the
2 
· bounds, or haa given bail; when capia8 
' ad eatisfaciendum mar be issued. 12. 
8. How lien may be aoquired on debtor's
whole pel'IIOnal estate. 
,. Lien t.erminated by a forfeited forthoom- 13. 
ing bond, or by a auperaedoo.a or other
legal proceu. 
~- J How judgment debt.or may be oom- 
6. pelled to discover and surrender hi8
7. estate. 15. 
8. How judgment debtor about to quit 16.
stat.a may be arrested and held to an-
111rer. 
9. Court in which judgment is, mar take
order for sale and proper application
of debt.or's estate. 
10. Offl.oer'1 duty as to eale, oollection and 17.
diaposition of debtor's eatat.e; when he 
is to return to clerk's offloe evidenoes
of debt; penalty tor failure. 
11. When by lien of fleri faciu there is a 18, 
claim on any pel'IIOn other than judg­
ment debtor, summons may be sued 
out against him ; how iBaued and re­ 
turnoo. 
How such person is examined; court's
order on such examination; execution 
thereon.
If he fail to appear, or to disclOlle his lia­
bility, proceedings thereupon. 
14.. Pel'IIOn summoned may before return day
of 1ummon111 deliver to or pay officer ;
duty 6f offloer in such CMe, 
Judgment 1111 to eoeta
By whom and how suit may be browrht 
for the recovery of estate on wJiloh 
fleri faci&B, or the judgment on which
it iuuea, is a lien, or for the enforoe­ 
ment of any liability in respect to auch
estate, 
Offloer receiving money under this chap­
t.er to make return thereof and pay 
~~tertho:oos·; how liable if failure to 
As to creditor's right to iaaue other exe­
cu tion.a. 
W here a person is in execution or th« bounds, or has.gi.ven bail; when capias ad
satisfaciendum. may be issued. 
1. If, under a judgment rendered before this chapter takes effect,
a person shall, at the time it takes effect, be in execution, or have the 
benefit of the prison rules or bounds, the judgment creditor may pro- 
ceed against such person, and the sureties in the hound's bond, ac­
cording to the laws in force on the day before the commencement of
this act; and if there be judgment before or after such commence.
ment, in a case wherein the judgment creditor may proceed against
the bail of any person, a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum may be sued
out against and executed on such person. In any case under this sec­
tion, the person in execution, or having the benefit of such rules or
bounds, may be discharged, and his estate subjected and applied ac­
cording to the said laws. 
2. No writ of capias ad satisfaciendum shall be issued or executed
hereafter," except in the cases provided for by the preceding section. t 
llow lien may he acquired on debtor's whole personal estate.
3. Every writ of fieri facias hereafter issued, shall, in addition to the 
ft
' hi h . h d h h d d d . h h be 
e ect w ic 1t as un er c apter one un re an erg ty-t ree, a
lien from the time that it is delivered to a sheriff' or other officer, to be 
executed, upon all the personal estate of, or to which the judgment
debtor is possessed or entitled (although not levied on, nor capable of~~
being levied on, under that chapter}, except in the case of a husband 
h
hi f di 1 b h hi 
or parent sue t mgs as are exempt rom tstress or evy y t e t rr-
ty-third and thirty-fourth sections of chapter forty-nine, and also wages
due to a laboring man being a householder or head of a family, not ex- 
ceeding fifty dollars a. month, and except that, as against an assignee of
any such estate for valuable consideration, or a person making a pay-
ment to the judgment debtor, the lien by virtue of this section shall
be valid only from the time that he has notice thereof. This section
shall not impair a lien acquired by an execution creditor under chap-
ter one hundred and eighty-three. 
Lien terminated by a forfeited forthcoming bond, or by a supersedeas or other
legal process. 
4. The lien acquired under the preceding section shall cease when-
ever the right of the judgment creditor to levy the fieri facias, under 
which the said lien arises, or to levy a new execution on his judgment,
ceases or is suspended by a forthcoming bond being given and forfeited,
or by a supersedeas or other legal process. 
Hoio judgment debtor may be compelled to discover and surrender his estate. 
5. To ascertain the estate on which a writ of fieri facias is a lien, and
to ascertain any real estate in or out of this state, to which a debtor
named in such fieri facias is entitled, the judgment creditor may file
interrogatories to the debtor, and a copy of the judgment, with a com­
missioner of the circuit, county or corporation court, who shall issue a
summons as in the cases provided for by the forty-fourth section of
chapter one hundred and seventy-two, except that it shall not be served
out of the county or corporation in which the commissioner resides.
The debtor served with such summons shall, within the time pre-
scribed therein, file answers upon oath to said interrogatories. If he 
fail so to do, or file any answers which are deemed by the commissioner
to be evasive, the commissioner, after the service and return day of a 
notice to or a rule upon the debtor, issued by such commissioner, and
returnable to a day and place indicated iR the process, to show cause
against it, may issue any attachment against such debtor, returnable
before him on a day and place certain, set out in it, to compel such
debtor to answer before the· commissioner the interrogatories afore­
said, or any others which he may deem pertinent. But the said com­
missioner shall enter into his proceedings and report to the court, any
and all the objections taken by such debtor against answering such
interrogatories, or any or either of them; and if the court shall after­
wards sustain any one or more of such objections, the answers given to
such interrogatories as to which objections are sustained, shall be held
for naught in that or any other cause. 
6. Any real estate out of this state, to which it may appear by such
answers the debtor is entitled, shall be forthwith conveyed by him to
the officer to whom was delivered the said tieri facias ; and any money,
bank notes, securities, evidences of debt, or· other personal estate
which it may appear by such answers are in the possession or under
the control of the debtor, shall be delivered by him, as far as practi­
cable, to the same officer, or to such other, and. in such manner as may
be ordered by the court, when the answers are in court, or by the com­
missioner, when the answers are not in court. Unless such convey­
ance and delivery be made, a writ shall be issued by the court's order,
or if the answers be not in court, by the commissioner, directed to the
sheriff of any county or the sergeant of any corporation, requiring
such sheriff or sergeant to take the debtor and keep him safely, until
he shall make such conveyance and delivery; upon doing which· he
shall be discharged by the court under whose order the writ issued, or 
'if the answers were not in court, by the court by which the commis­
sioner was appointed, or in either case, if the court be not sirting, by 
the commissioner.
7. The commissioner shall return the interrogatories and answers 
filed with him, and a report of the proceedings under the two preced- 
ing sections, to the court il'l which the judgment is, or if the judgment
be of a justice, to the court* to which such justice belongs. 
How judgment debtor about lo quit state may be arrested and held to answer. 
8. Where a. debtor named in a. writ of fieri facias, after being served
with a summons issued by a commissioner, shall fail, within the time 
prescribed therein, to file answers upon oath to said interrogat-0,ries, or
shall file answers which are deemed by the commissioner to be evasive,
if the judgment creditor shall, by affidavit, show to the satisfaction of 
the commissioner that there is probable cause for believing that the
said debtor is about to quit this state, unless he be forthwith appre-
hended, a writ shall be issued by the commissioner, directed to the
sheriff of any county or tho sergeant of any corporation, requiring 
such sheriff or sergeant to take the debtor and keep him safely until
such answers to the interrogatories as the commissioner deems proper
shall be filed, and such conveyance and delivery as he deems proper
shall be made, or until a circuit, county, or corporation court, or a cir-
cuit judge shall direct the debtor's discharge. A county or corporation
court may act under this section, either at a monthly or quarterly
term.] 
Court in which judgment is, may take order for sale and proper application of
debtor's estate. 
9. Any order may be made by such court which it may deem right,
as to the sale and proper application of the estate conveyed and deliv­
ered under sections six and seven. 
Officer's duty tl.! to sale, collection and disposition of debtor's estate; when he is 
lo return to clerk's office evidences of debt; penalty for failure. 
10. ·Real estate conveyed to an officer under this chapter, shall, un-
less such court direct otherwise, be sold after such notice, as prescribed 
in the thirty-sixth section of chapter forty-nine,! and be conveyed to 
the purchaser by the officer or his deputy. An officer to whom there
is delivery under, this chapter, when the delivery is of money, bank 
. 
notes, or any goods or chattels, shall dispose of the same as if levied
on by him under a fieri facias : and when the delivery is of evidences
of debts ( other than such bank notes), may receive payment of such
debts within sixty days after such delivery. Any evidence of debt or
other security remaining in his hands at the end of said sixty days,
shall be returned Ly him to the clerk's office of such court. For a 
" · 1 k l t l b d d ' . f 
1a1 ure to ma e sue 1 re urn, ie may e procee e against as 1 an ex-
press order of said court for such return had been disobeyed. 
lV hen by lien of fieri facias there is a claim on any person other than judg11w1t
debtor, summons may be sued out against him; how issued and returned, 
1 J. On a suggestion by the judgment creditor that by reason of the 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
lien of his writ of fieri facias, there is a liability on any person other­
than the judgment debtor, a summons may be sued out of the said
office, or, where the judgment does not exceed the jurisdiction of a. 
justice, may be sued out from a justice, against said person to answer
such suggestion; the return day of which summons, when sued out
from the clerk's office, may be to the next term of the court, although
more than ninety days after the date of the summons; and when sued
out from a justice, such summons may be made returnable before any
justice of the county or corporation wherein the same shall be issued,
and shall he made returnable within sixty days, at some certain place
within such county or corporation to be named in such summons, and
within the township wherein such defendant may reside at the time of
the service of such summons. 
How such person is examined; court's order on such examination; execution
thereon. 
12. The person summoned shall be examined on oath. If it appear
on such examination that there is any such liability on him, the court
may order him to pay any debts, or deliver any estate for which there
is such liability, or pay the value of such estate, to any officer whom it
may designate; and the levy of an execution on such order shall be 
valid, although levied by such officer. 
Person summoned may, before return day of summon.,, deliver to or pay officer;
duty of officer in such case. 
14. Any person summoned under the eleventh section may, before
the return day of the summons, deliver and pay to the officer serving
it, what he is liable for; and the officer shall give a receipt for, and
make return of, what is so paid and delivered. 
Judgment aa to costs. 
15. Unless such person appear to be liable for more than is so deli·
vered and paid, there shall be no judgment against him for costs. In
other cases, jndgment under the twelfth and thirteenth sections
may be for such costs, and against such party, as the court may deem 
just. 
If he fail to appear, or to disclose his liability, proceedings thereupon. 
13. If such person, after being served with the summons twenty
days, fail to appear, or if it be suggested that he has not fully disclosed 
his liability, the proceedings shall be according to the eighteenth and
nineteenth sections of chapter one hundred and forty-eight, mutatis
mutandis, 
By whom and how suit may be brought f.-r the recovery of estate on which fari 
facias, or tlie judgment on which it issues, is a lien, or for the enforcement of
any liability in respect to such estate. · 
16. For the recovery of nny estate, real or personal, on which a writ
of fieri facias is a lien under this chapter, or on which the judgment 
on which such writ issues, is a lien under chapter one hundred and
eighty-two, or for the enforcement of any liability in respect to any
such estate, a suit may be maintained at law or in equity, as the case
may require, in the name of the officer to whom such writ was deli­ 
vered, or in the name of any other officer who may be designated for
the purpose by an order of the court in which the judgment is, or if
the judgmeni be of a justice, by an order of the court* to which such 
justice belongs. No officer shall be bound to bring such suit, unless
bond, with sufficient security, be given him to indemnify him against
all expenses and costs which he may incur or become liable for by rea-
son thereof. But any person interested may bring such suit at his own 
costa in the officer's name. 
Officer receiving money under thi8 chapter to make return thereof and pay net
proceeds; how liable if failure to do either. 
17. An officer receiving money under this chapter shall, within thirty
days after receiving it, make return thereof to the court or the clerk's: 
office of .the court in which the judgment is, or to which, if it was ren-
dered by a. justice, such justice* belongs; and for failing so to do, shall
be liable as if he had acted under an order of said court. After de-
ducting from said money a commission of five per centum and his ne­
cessary expenses and costs, including reasonable fees to counsel, he
shall pay the net proceeds, and he and his sureties, and their represen­
tatives, shall be liable therefor, in like manner as if the same had been
made under a wrtt of fieri facias on the judgment, returnable at the 
• end of said thirty days. 
As to creditor's right to issue other executions. 
18. Although a judgment creditor avail himself of the benefit of
this chapter, he may nevertheless (without impairing his lien under it)
from time to time, according to chapters one hundred and eighty-two 
and one hundred and eighty-three, issue other executions upon his
judgment until the same be satisfied. 
I. The sheriff or other officer levying a writ of fieri facias, or distress
warrant, may take from the debtor a bond, with sufficient surety, pay­
able to the creditor, reciting the service of such writ or warrant, and 
the amount due thereon, (including his fee for taking the bond, com-
missions and other lawful charges, if any,) with condition that the pro­
perty shall be forthcoming at the day and place of sale; whereupon,
such property may be permitted to remain in the possession and at the 
risk of the debt.or. 
If bond be forfeited, where it is to be returned, and when; its effect; clerk's 
duty to endorse time. cf return. 
2. If the condition of such bond be not performed, the officer, un­
less payment be made of the amount due on the execution or warrant
(including his fee, commission and charges as aforesaid), shall, within
thirty days after the bond is forfeited, return it, with the execution or
warrant, to such court, or the clerk's office of such court as is pre­
scribed by the twenty-fourth section of chapter forty-nine. The clerk
shall endorse on the bond the date of its return; and against such of
the obligors therein as may be alive when it is forfeited and so re­
turned, it shall have the force of a judgment. But no execution shall
issue thereon under this section. 
3. The obligors in such forfeited bond shall be liable for the money 1 
therein. mentioned, with interest thereon from the date of the bond U1t20, 
till paid, and the costs , the obligee or his personal representative shall ts~:l~p. 
be entitled to recover the same by action or motion. 1u8:~l 
Where taken under distress warrant, what defence may be made. ~~l 
4-. In an action or motion on such bond, when it is taken under a ?t0ratt. 
distress warrant, the defendants may make defence on the ground that is
the distress was for rent not due in whole or in part, or was otherwise 
illegal. 
5. If any such bond be at any time quashed, the obligee, besides his 1 
remedy against the officer, may have such execution on his judgment, :
or issue such distress warrant, as would have been lawful if such bond ~Gratt., 
had not been taken. 
Remedy of creditor if bond. be quashed. 
In what case« forthcoming bond not to be taken.
6. No bond for the forthcoming of property shall be taken on an 
t
. ti th . ho d ti . d 
execu ion on a or commg n , nor on an execu ion on e ju gment
against a sheriff, sergeant, coroner or constable, or a deputy of any of
them, or a surety or personal representative of any such officer or de-
puty, for money received by any such officer or deputy, by virtue of
his office, or against any such officer or his personal representative, in
favor of a surety of such officer, or against a deputy of any such offi-
cer, or his surety or personal representative, in favor of his principal
or the personal representative of such principal, for money paid or a
judgment rendered for a default in office; nor on an execution against 
an overseer of the poor, or his personal representative, for money re­
ceived by him as such; nor on any other execution on which the clerk
is required by law to endorse that "no security is to be taken." 
What endorsement clerk to make on execution in such ca-Jes. 
7. On every execution on which a forthcoming bond is prohibited
. . h d h " . . b k " 
from being given, t e en orsement t at no security is to eta en
shall be ma.de by the clerk. 
JU8tice of the peace may give judgment on forthc<>ming bonds in certain limits.
8. A justice of the peace may, on motion, after ten days' notice of 
h
· d 1 h " · · d " h · ho d
t e time an p ace t ereor, give JU gment On any 10rt oommg n
taken by a constable upon a fieri facias issued by a justice. But in
every case, when the amount actually due upon such bond, exclusive 
of interest, exceeds twenty dollars, the justice shall, upon the appli-
cation of the defendant, at any time before trial, remove the cause to
the court of the county or corporation wherein the same shall be
brought, and the clerk of the said court shall docket the same; and it
shall be proceeded in as if it was a motion originally made in said 
o. 
Bee 
court; and it shall not be discontinued by reason of no order being en­
tered of its continuance from one day to another, or from one term to 
another. 
Duties of clerk therein, and his fees.
9. Upon the return of such bond to the clerk's office in the manner 
prescribed by the second section of this chapter, it shall be the duty of
the clerk to endorse thereon the date of such return, and to record in
a book to be by him kept for the purpose, the date of such bond, the
amount of the penalty thereof, the amount, the payment whereof will
discharge such penalty, and the names of the obligee and obligor to
such bond. For which service the clerk shall be entitled to a fee of
thirty cents; and such bond, when so returned to the clerk's office
aforesaid, shall constitute a lien on the real estate of the obligor. 
How bond withdrawn from clerk's office. 
10. Such clerk shall endorse upon such bond the amount of the fee
aforesaid; and the obligee in such bond, or his agent, may, a.t any time
after the re~ord of such bond is made by the clerk, required by the
ninth section, withdraw the same from the clerk's office. 
Oosu included by j~tice.
11. The justice, on giving judgment on such bond, shall include in 
the costs of the judgment the clerk's fee aforesaid; and the clerk shall
not receive any fee or reward for any service he is required to perform
by the provisions of the said ninth section, except that herein speci­
fied. 
Justice to endorse that no security i8 to he taken.
12. It shall be the duty of the justice issuing a. fieri facias upon the 
judgment allowed by this act, to endorse upon such fieri fa.cias "no se­
curity of any kind shall be ta.ken on this execution." 
No stay of execution; justice to keep record. 
13. A justice shall not stay execution upon any judgment authorized
by this a.ct. The justice rendering judgment, under the provisions of
this act, shall keep ·a record thereof in the same manner as he ie now
required by law in other cases. 
Judgment to he rendered for coeu and interest.
14. The justice shall render judgment upon the bond for the amount 
actually due thereon, with proper interest and ooste, 
