Sec. 2915. Limitation of entry on op action for land.— No person shall
make an entry on, or bring an action to recover, any land lying east of
the Alleghany mountains, but within fifteen years, or any land lying
west of the Alleghany mountains, but within ten years, next after the
time at which the right to make such entry or bring such action shall
have first accrued to himself or to some person through whom he claims.
For the purposed of this section, the county of Carroll shall be held and
considered as lying wholly west of the Alleghany mountains *
Sec. 2916. Right not saved by claim.— No continual or other claim upon
or near any land shall preserve any right of making an entry or of bring
ing an action.
Sec. 2917. further time allowed persons under disability, except married
woman having separate estate.— If at the time at which the right of any
person to make entry on or bring an action to recover any land shall
have first accrued, such person wan an infant, married woman, or insane,
then such person, or the person claiming through him. may, notwith
standing the said period mentioned in section twenty-nine hundred and
fifteen shall have expired, make an entry on or bring an action to recover
such land, within ten years next after the time at which the person to
whom such right shall have first accrued as aforesaid, shall have ceased
to be under such disability as existed when the same so accrued or shall
have died, whichever shall first have happened. This section shall not
apply to a married woman having the right to make an entry on or bring
an action to recover land which is her separate estate.
Sec. 2918. Provisos as to the preceding section.— The preceding section
is subject to these provisos: that no such entry or action shall be made
or brought by any person who, at the time at which his right to make or
bring the same shall have first accrued, shall be under any such disa
bility, or by any person claiming through him, but within twenty years
next after the time at which such right shall have first accrued, although
the person under disability at such time may have remained under the
same during the whole of such twenty years, or although the term often
years from the period at which he shall have ceased to be under any
such disability, or have died, shall not have expired; and when any
person shall be under any such disability at the time at which his right
to make an entry or being an action shall have first accrued, and shall
depart this life without having ceased to be under any such disability, no
time to make an entry or to bring an action beyond the time prescribed
in section twenty-nine hundred and fifteen, next after the right of such
person shall have first accrued, or the ten years next after the period of
his death, shall be allowed by the reason of the disability of any other
person.
Sec. 2919. Periods which arc to be excluded from computation of the
time, within which, by operation of any statnte or rule of law. any civil
proceeding must be commenced.—The period between the seventeenth
day of April, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, and the second day of
March, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, shall be excluded from the com-
putation of the time within which by the terms, or operation of any
statute, or rule of law, it may be necessary to commence any action or
other proceeding, or to do any other act to preserve or prevent the loss
of any civil right or remedy, or to avoid any fine, penalty, or forfeiture ;
and the period between the second day of March, eighteen hundred and
sixty-six, and the first day of January, eighteen hundred and sixty-nine,
shall be excluded from the computation of time within which, by the
operation of any statute or rule of law, it may be necessary to commence
any proceeding to preserve or prevent the loss of any right or remedy.
Sec. 2920. Limitation of personal actions generally.— Every action to
recover money which is founded upon an award, or on any contract,
other than a judgment or recognizance, shall be brought within the fol
lowing number of years next after the right to bring the same shall have
first accrued,* that is to say : if the case be upon an indemnifying bond
taken under any statute, or upon a bond of an executor, administrator,
guardian/curator, committee, sheriff or sergeant, deputy sheriff or ser
geant, clerk or deputy clerk, or any other fiduciary or public officer, or
upon any other contract by writing under seal, within ten years ; if it be
upon an award, or be upon a contract by writing, signed by the party to
be charged thereby, or by his agent, but not under seal, within five years ;
if it be upon any oral contract, express or implied, for articles charged in
a store account,* although such articles be sold on a written order, within
two years; and if it be upon any other contract, within three years,
unless it be an action by one partner against his co-partner for a settle
ment of the partnership accounts, or upon accounts concerning the trade*
of merchandize between merchant and merchant, their factors, or ser
vants, where the action of account would lie, in either of which cases the
action may be brought until the expiration of five years from a cessation
of the dealings in which they are interested together, but not after :f
Provided, that the right of action, against the estate of any person here
after dying, on any such award or contract, which shall have accrued at
the time of his death, or the right to prove any such claim against his
estate in any suit or proceeding, shall not in any case continue longer
than five years from the qualification of his personal representative, or
if the right of action shall not have accrued at the time of the decedent's
death, it shall not continue longer than five yeare after the same shall
have so accrued.
Sec. 2921. When right of action upon bonds of fiduciaries deemed to have
first accrued. Limitation of suits against fiduciaries themselves ; also, for
receipt by them of Confederate currency.—The right of action upon the
bond of an executor, administrator, guardian, curator, or committee, or
of a sheriff, or sergeant acting as such, shall be deemed to have first
accrued as follows : upon a bond of a guardian or curator of a ward,
from the time of the ward's attaining the age of twenty-one years, or
from the termination of the guardian's or curator's office, whichever
shall happen first ; and upon the bond of any personal representative!
of a decedent or committee of an insane person, the right of action of a
person obtaining execution against such representative or committee, or
to whom payment or delivery of estate in the hands of such representa
tive or committee, shall be ordered by a court acting upon his account,
shall be deemed to have first accrued from the return day of such execu
tion,! or from the time of the right to require payment or delivery upon
such order, whichever shall happen first; and as to any suit against such
fiduciary himself, or his representative, which could have been main
tained if he had given no bond, there shall he no other limitation than
would exist if the preceding section was not passed ; except, that where
any such fiduciary has settled an account under the provisions of chapter
one hundred and twenty-one, a suit to surcharge or falsify the same, or
to hold such fiduciary or his sureties liable for any balance stated in such
account to be in his hands, shall be brought within ten years after the
account has been confirmed ; and except also, that no suit or proceeding
shall be instituted against any fiduciary on account of money collected,
or received by him as such fiduciary, in Confederate currency, during the
late war, unless the person entitled to institute such suit or other pro
ceedings be an infant, married woman, or insane person, in which case
such suit or other proceeding may be instituted within three years after
this Code takes effect and not after.
Sec. 2922. Limitation of action, when there is a new promise in writing,
How plaintiff to sne in such case.—If any person against whom the right
shall have so accrued on an award, or anv such contract, shall, by
....... ■• . ,. ,
writing signed by him or his agent, promise payment of money on such
award or contract, the person to whom the right shall have so accrued
may maintain an action for the money so promised, within such number
of years after such promise, as it might be maintained under section
twenty-nine hundred and twenty, if such promise were the original
cause of action. The plaintiff may sue on such promise or on the orig
inal cause of action, except that where the promise is of such a nature as
to merge the original cause of action, then the action shall be only on
the promise. If the action be on the original cause of action, in answer
to a plea under section twenty-nine hundred and twenty, the plaintiff
shall be allowed, without pleading it, to show such promise in evidence
to repel the bar of the plea, provided he shall have given the defendant
reasonable notice, before the trial, of his intention to rely on such
promise. An acknowledgment in writing as aforesaid, from which a
promise of payment may be implied, shall be deemed to be such promise
in the meaning of this section.
Sec. 2923. Effect of promise of personal representative or joint con-
tractor.— No acknowledgment or promise by any personal representative
of a decedent, or by one of two or more joint contractors, shall charge
the estate of such decedent, or charge any other of such contractors, in
any case in which but for such acknowledgment or promise, the dece
dent's estate or another contractor could have been protected under sec
tion twenty-nine hundred and twenty.
Sec. 2924. Effect, on right of action, of devise for payment of debts.—
No provision in the will of any testator devising his real estate, or any
part thereof, subject to the payment of his debts, or charging the sniue
therewith, shall prevent this chapter from operating against such debts,
unless it plainly appear to be the testator's intent that it shall not so
operate.
Sec. 2925. Limitation of action, &c, on a recognizance.— Every action or
scire facias upon a recognizance shall be commenced, if the recognizance
be not of bail in a civil suit, within ten years next after the right to
bring the same shall have first accrued ; and if the recognizance be of
such bail, within three years after the right to sue out execution upon
the judgment in such suit shall have accrued, omitting in the computa
tion of time such part of said three years as the right to sue such execu
tion shall have been suspended by injunction, supersedeas, or other legal
process.
Sec. 2926. Of motion against officer for failure to return execution.—
A motion against an officer or his sureties, or his or their representatives,
for a failure to return an execution, shall be made within ten years from
the return day thereof, and not after.
Sec. 2927. Of actions not before specified.— Every personal action, for
which no limitation is otherwise prescribed, shall be brought within five
years next after the right to bring the same shall have accrued, if it be
for a matter of such nature that in case a party die it can be brought by
or against his representative; and, if it be for a matter not of such nature,
shall be brought within one year next after the "4<5fa* to bring the same
shall have accrued.
Sec. 2928. Actions on judgments, &c. of another state.—Every action
upon a judgment or decree rendered in any other state or country shall
be barred, if by the laws of such state or country such action would
there be barred, and the judgment or decree be incapable of being
otherwise enforced there ; and whether so barred or not, no action
against a person who shall have resided in this state during the ten
years next preceding such action, shall be brought upon any such judg
ment or decree, rendered more than ten years before the commence
ment of such action.
Sec. 2929. Limitation of suits to avoid voluntary deeds, tic.—No gift,
conveyance, assignment, transfer, or charge, which is not on considera
tion deemed valuable in law, shall be avoided, either in whole or in part,
for that cause only, unless, within five years after the right to avoid the
same has accrued, suit be brought for that purpose, or the subject thereof,
or some part of it, be distrained or levied on by or at the suit of a credi
tor, as to whom such gift, conveyance, assignment, transfer, or charge is
declared to be void by section twenty-four hundred and fifty-nine.
Sec. 2930. To repeal a grant.— A bill in equity to repeal, in whole or in
part, any grant of land by the commonwealth, shall be brought within
ten years next after the date of such grant.
Sec. 2931. Saving as to persons under disability, except married woman
being separate estate. —If any person to whom the right accrues to bring
any such personal action, or scire facias, or any such bill to repeal a grant,
shall be at the time the same accrues, an infant, married woman, or
insane, the same may be brought within the like number of years after
his becoming of full age, unmarried, or sane, that is allowed to a person
having no such impediment to bring the same after the right accrues, or
after such acknowledgment as aforesaid, except that it shall in no case
be brought after twenty years from the time when the right accrued.
This section shall not apply to a married woman to whom the right
accrues to bring any such action, or scire, facias, or such bill to repeal a
grant, relating to or affecting her separate estate.
Sec. 2932. As to persons dead, when right accrues.— If a person die
before the time at which any right mentioned in this chapter would have
accrued to him, if he had continued alive, and there be an interval of
more than five years between the death of such person and the qualifica
tion of his personal representative, such personal representative shall,
for the purposes of this chapter, be deemed to have qualified on the last
day of the said five years.
Sec. 2933. As to plaintiff, when suit prevented by defendant. When right
of action on foreign contract barred. —Where any such right as is men
tioned in this chapter shall accrue against a person who had before
resided in this state, if such person shall, by departing without the same,
or by absconding or concealing himself, or by any other indirect ways
or means, obstruct the prosecution of such right, the time that such
obstruction may have continued shall not be computed as any part of the
time within which the said right might or ought to have been prose-
euted. But this section shall not avail against any other person than
him so obstructing, notwithstanding another might have been jointly
sued with him, if there had been no such obstruction. And upon a con
tract, which was inad,? and was to be performed in another state or
country, by a person who then resided therein, no action shall be main
tained after the right of action thereon is barred by the laws of such
state or country.
Sec. 2934. Further time given, when suit abates, or is defeated on ground
not affecting the right to recover. —If an action, commenced within due
time, in the name*of or against one or more plaintiffs or defendants,
abate as to one of them by the return of no inhabitant, or by his or her
death or marriage, or if, in an action commenced within due time, judg
ment for the plaintiff shall be arrested or reversed, upon a ground which
does not preclude a new action for the same cause, or if there be occasion
to bring a new suit by reason of the loss or destruction of any of the
papers or records in a former suit which was in due time ; in every such
<;ase, notwithstanding the expiration of the time within which a newaction
or suit must otherwise have been brought, the same may be
brought within one year after such abatement or such arrest or reversal
of judgment, or such loss or destruction, but not after.
Sec. 2935. Limitation on enforcement of deeds of trust and mortgages.—
No deed of trust or mortgage hereafter given to secure the payment of
money, and no lien hereafter reserved to secure the payment of unpaid
purchase money, shall be enforced after twenty years from the time
when the right to enforce the same shall have first accrued ; but this section shall not be construed to embrace any deed of trust or mortgage
executed by a corporation.
Sec. 2936. Repeal of limitation not to remove bar of statute.— If, after a
right of action or remedy is barred by a statute of limitations, the statute
be repealed, the bar of the statute as to such right or remedy shall not be
deemed to be removed by such repeal. *
Sec. 2937. State not within statute of limitations.— No statute of limitations,
which shall not in express terms apply to the commonwealth,
shall be deemed a bar to any proceeding by or on behalf of the same.
Sec. 2938. As to rights and remedies existing when this Code takes effect,
Xo action, suit, scire facing, or other proceeding, which may be pending
on the day before this Code takes effect, or the right to prosecute which,
under the laws in force on that day, shall have accrued before that day,
shall be barred by this chapter, any farther or otherwise than as follows:
the same, if pending on that day, shall be subject to such limitation as it
would have been subject to if this Code had not been enacted ; and
where not so pending, if the right to prosecute the same shall exist on
that day, for a certain number of years prescribed by any statute, the
same, or wuch other action as may be substituted therefor by this Code,
may be prosecuted within such time as the same mi>rht have been prose
cuted if this chapter had not been enacted, and not after ; and where not
so pending, if the right to prosecute the same shall exist on that day, in
a case in which no certain number of years shall have been prescribed
therefor by statute, the same, or such other action as may be substituted
therefor by this Code, may be prosecuted within such time as the same
would have to be prosecuted if the right to bring it had accrued on the
next day after this Code takes effect.
TITLE 43.
I
WARRANTS, ATTACHMENTS, AND BAIL.
Ch. 140. Of warrants for small claims.
141. Of attachments, and of bail.
CHAPTER CXL.
OP WARRANTS FOR SMALL CLAIMS.
Sec.
2939. For what a Justine has jurisdiction;
when ami how ruse removed to
court; when tried.
2940. How warrant issued, directed, and
returnable where executed ;
how served on corporation.
2941. How witnesses summoned, and
compelled to attend .
2942. How and when warrant tried, and
judgment given
2943. Judgment to he endorsed on papers.
2944. Justice's record book ; what to be
entered therein ; when delivered
to clerk.
2945. Jusiice to deliver abstract of judg
ment.
2940. When and by whom new trial
awarded.
2947- How appeal allowed, or execution
stayed.
2946. When and how execution issued.
2949. How directed aud returnable ; how
renewed.
2950. Clerk to docket and index execu
tions; his fee. How further exe
cutions issued and directed.
Sec.
2951.
29-nfi.
21I-.7.
2958.
In proceeding against officer for fail
ing to pay over money, Ac what
to be evidence ; duty of justice.
Officer fined for failure to return
execution ; morion before, and
judgment by, justice atiainst of
ficer and sureties for amount of
execution.
Officer and sureties liable formoney
collected after, as well as before,
return day of execution; also for
moneys received for claim ; when
receipt therefor evidence of col
lection.
Proceedings before a justice for the
release to claimant of property
taken under distress warrant or
levied on under execution on
judgment of a justice. When and
how appeal allowed.
Duty of justice and clerk, when ap
peal allowed.
Where appeal cognisable.
How tried; judgment.
Notice to try appeal; preference
over other cases.
Sec. 2939. For what a justice has jurisdiction; when and bow ease
removed to court ; when tried.— Any claim to specific personal property,
or to any debt, fine, or other money, or to damages for breach of any con
tract, or for any injury done to property, real or personal, which would
be recoverable by action at law, or suit in equity, shall, when the claim
ig to a fine, or damages for breach of any contract, or for injury to prop
erty, real or personal, if the amount of such claim do not exceed twenty
dollars (exclusive of interest), and in other cases, if the claim do not exceed
one hundred dollars (exclusive of interest), be cognizable by a justice,
even though the claim be for or against the town or county in which such
justice resides; but in every case where the amount or thing in contro
versy exceeds the sum or value of twenty dollars, the justice shall, upon
the application of the defendant and upon affidavit that he has a sub
stantial defence thereto, at any time before trial, remove the cause and
all the papers thereof to the court of the county or corporation wherein
the warrant has been brought, and the clerk of the said court shall forth
with docket the same, but it shall not be tried at any term except by con
sent of parties, unless it shall have been so docketed ten days previous
thereto. On such trial the proceedings shall conform to section thirtytwo
hundred and eleven.
Sec. 2940. How warrant issued, directed, and returnable ; where executed ;
how served on corporation. — A justice, when applied to by any person, shall
issue a warrant directed to a constable of the magisterial district in wThich
the defendant, or if there be more than one, either defendant, resides, or
in which the cause of action arose, or if there be no constable in such dis
trict, to the sheriff of the county, requiring him to summon the person
against whom the claim is, to appear before him or some other justice on
a certain day, not exceeding thirty days from the date thereof, to answer
such claim. It shall be made returnable to some place within the said
magisterial district, unless the justice, for good cause shown on oath, direct
it to be returned to some other place within his county or corporation.
The warrant may be executed in any part of the county or corporation on
any defendant who resides or may be found therein. If the warrant be
against a corporation, it shall be served as process or notice is served under section thirty-two hundred and twenty-five, and, to that end, the justice
issuing the warrant, shall make and deliver a copy thereof along with the
warrant, to the officer required to serve the same.
Sec. 2941. How witnesses summoned, and compelled to attend.— Subpoenas
for witnesses may be issued by a justice, directed to a constable of any
county or corporation. Any person summoned to attend as a witness
before a justice who shall fail so to attend, shall, unless he show a reason
able excuse therefor, within ten days after being summoned to state such
excuse, be fined by the justice before whom the failure occurred, a sum
not exceeding five dollars, for the use of the party on whose behalf he
was summoned.
Sec. 2942. How and when warrant tried, and judgment given. —The jus-
tice shall try such warrant according to the principles of law and equity,
and give judgment for the sum due to either party, with interest, or for
the property to which the plaintiff is entitled (or its value), with dam
ages ; and costs shall be awarded or refused to either party, on the like
principles: Provided, that no such trial shall be had within five days after
the service of the warrant, except with the consent of the parties.
Sec. 2943. Judgment to be endorsed on papers.—The justice rendering
any such judgment shall endorse on the face of the writing, account, or
other paper, on which the warrant issued, or on any writing, account, or
other paper, allowed as a set off, the date and amount of the judgment
and costs, and affix his name thereto.
Sec. 2944. Justice's record book; what to be entered therein; when
delivered to clerk. —He shall also, in a book kept for the purpose, enter
the date of the judgment, the name of the person for, and of the person
against, whom it is, and its amount ; also the date of any execution
issued thereon, and to whom delivered. If he fail to do so, he shall for
feit twenty dollars. The cost of said book shall be chargeable on the
county or corporation. In case of a vacancy in his office by death, resig
nation, removal, or otherwise, the said book shall be delivered to the
clerk of his county or corporation by the justice, if alive, and by his per
sonal representative, if he be dead, to be kept by the said clerk among
the records of his office.
Sec. 2945. Justice to deliver abstract of judgment.— The justice render
ing any such judgment shall certify and deliver an abstract thereof, at
any time during his continuance in office, to any person interested therein,
who may desire to have the same docketed.
Sec. 2946. When and by whom new trial awarded.—After thirty days
from any bucIi judgment, no new trial shall be granted in the case, nor
shall it be granted within the thirty days, unless the opposite party be
present at the time of the application, or unless after five days' notice to
him (if in the county or corporation) of the time and place of the appli
cation for such new trial. The justice, who rendered the judgment,
shall alone have power to grant such new trial, while he is in office; if
he die, resign, be absent from the county, or be removed, it may be
granted by another justice.
Sec. 2947. How appeal allowed, or execution stayed.— If a judgment of
a justice be for a sum exceeding ten and not exceeding twenty dollars,
exclusive of interest and costs, the justice rendering it may stay execu
tion on it forty days from its date. If the judgment be for a sum exceed
ing twenty and not exceeding thirty dollars, he may stay execution on it
sixty days from its date. If the judgment be for a sum exceeding thirty
dollars, he may stay execution on it ninety days from its date, on such
security being given in either case for its payment, as he may deem suffi
cient. From any such judgment, the justice rendering it may, within
ten days, on such security being given as he approves for the payment of
the same, and all costs and damages (if it be affirmed), allow an appeal
where the case involves the constitutionality or validity of an ordinance
or by-law of a corporation, or where the matter in controversy, exclusive
of interest, is of greater amount or value than ten dollars. Where the
appeal is by a party against whom there is no recovery, except for costs,
the security shall be for such costs and damages as may be awarded
against him on the appeal, if the judgment of the justice be affirmed.
The verbal acknowledgment of any surety taken under this section,
shall be sufficient, and the endorsement by the justice of the name of
the surety upon the warrant on which the judgment is rendered, shall be
conclusive evidence of such acknowledgment. The court in which the
appeal is cognizable may, on motion, for good cause shown, require the
appellant to give new or additional security, reasonable notice of such
motion having been given to said appellant ; and if he fail to give such
security, the appeal shall be dismissed with costs, and the court Fhall
award execution on the judgment rendered by the justice, with costs
against the appellant and his surety.
Sec. 2948. When and how execution issued. —The justice rendering any
judgment may issue a writ of fieri facia* thereon immediately, if there be
not a new trial granted, nor an appeal allowed, nor a stay of execution ;
and where there is such stay of execution, if the judgment be not paid
within the forty, sixty, or ninety days, as the case may be, a writ of
fieri facias shall thereupon be issued by a justice against the party and his
surety jointly, on which no security shall be taken. When the judgment
is for personal property, the plaintiff may, at his option, have a writ of
possession for the recovery of the specific property and a writ of fieri
/aciaa for the damages and costs ; and, if the writ of possession prove
ineffectual, a writ of fieri facias for the alternative value; said writ of pos
session to be directed to, executed, and returned by the same officer who
would execute the writ of fieri facia*.
Sec. 2949. How directed and returnable; how renewed.— A writ of fieri
facias issued by a justice may be directed to any constable, and be exe-
cuted by him in any part of his county or corporation, or to the sheriff or
sergeant of any county or corporation, and shall be returnable within
sixty days. If not wholly satisfied, it may, within one year from the
•date of the judgment, be returned to and renewed by a justice, notwith
standing the provisions of chapter thirty-nine. But every execution,
issued by a justice, which is not so returned and renewed, shall be
returned by the officer to the clerk's office of the court of the county or
•corporation in which the execution issued.
Sec. 2950. Clerk to docket and index executions; his fee. How further
executions issued and directed.— The clerk shall docket all executions
returned by the officer and index the same in the name of both plaintiff
and defendant, and file them alphabetically, in a separate bundle for
•each year ; for which services the clerk shall be entitled to a fee, to be
paid by the plaintiff in each case, of twenty cents. Such further execu
tions may be issued for the recovery of the amount due on any execu
tion so returned, as if the judgment on which it issued had been ren
dered in court. The same may, at the option of the plaintiff, be directed
to and executed either by a constable, or by a sheriff or sergeant ; and
the same proceedings shall be had upon executions issued under this sec
tion as upon executions issued upon judgments of courts.
Sec. 2951. In proceedings against officer for failure to pay over money,
Ae. ; what to be evidence ; duty of justice.— A copy from the entry in the
justice's book of the date of any execution issued by him, and to whom
delivered, shall be evidence in any proceeding against the officer to
whom it is entered as delivered, for failing to make due return thereof,
or for failing to pay over money received thereon. If a justice, upon
being applied to for a copy of any entry, refuse it, and afterwards, upon
being summoned to produce the book in which such entry is or ought to
have been made, fail to produce such entry, he shall forfeit twenty dol
lars to the person on whose behalf he is summoned.
Sec. 2952. Officer fined for failure to return execution ; motion before, and
judgment by justice against officer and sureties for amount of execution.—
If an officer fail to make due return of any execution issued by a justice,
he may, after ten days' notice, be fined from time to time by a justice, on
the motion of the plaintiff in such execution, in like manner as a court
may fine an officer who fails to make due return of an execution issued
from such court. And if an officer make such return upon an execution
issued by a justice as would, on a motion against the officer, authorize
judgment to be entered against him for the amount of such execution,
or any part thereof, if the execution had issued from a court, the cred
itor on whose behalf such execution issued, or his personal representa
tive, may, on a motion before a justice, after like notice, obtain such judg
ment against the officer, his sureties, and others as could be given by a
•court, if the execution had issued from a court. This section shall not
prevent a motion in court under chapter thirty-nine, or under section
thirty-two hundred and ten.
Sec. 2953. Officer and sureties liable for money collected after, as well as
before, return day of execution ; also for moneys received for claims ;
when receipt therefor, evidence of collection.—If an officer, after the
return day, collect money mentioned in an execution i&sued by a justice,
he and his sureties shall be liable for the money so collected in like
manner as if the collection had been before the return day. And if a
constable receive money on account of any claim entrusted to him to
warrant for, and recoverable by warrant, he and his sureties shall be
liable for the money so received, as for money collected under execution ;
and after six months from the date of any receipt for such claim, signed
in his official character, such receipt shall be prima facie evidence of the
receipt of the money.
Sec. 2954. Proceedings before a justice for release to claimant Qf property
taken under distress warrant, or levied on under execution on judgment of
a justice. When and how appeal allowed.— When an execution on a judg
ment of a justice or a warrant of distress is levied upon property not of a
greater value than twenty dollars, which is claimed by any person other
than the party against whom it issued, such person may apply to a justice
of the county or corporation in which the levy is, for a warrant to a con
stable requiring him to summon both the creditor and debtor, to show
cause why the property should not be discharged from the levy. The
justice shall issue such warrant, returnable in not less than five days ; and
if an earlier day shall have been fixed for the sale of the property, he
shall make an order on the warrant, requiring the postponement of the
sale until after return day. Upon hearing the parties, or such of them as
may attend after being summoned, he shall order the officer to deliver
the property to the claimant, or the person from whom it was taken, or
shall dismiss the summons, as may seem most proper,and may give such
judgment for costs as he may deem just. If the property be of the value
of ten dollars, the justice shall, within five days, allow an appeal (if
applied for) from such order and judgment, on security being given as in
the appeals before mentioned in this chapter.
Sec. 2955. Duty of justice and clerk, when appeal allowed.—The justice,
from whose judgment an appeal is allowed, shall immediately deliver to
the clerk of the court which has the cognizance of the appeal, the origi
nal warrant, with the judgment and the name of the surety endorsed
thereon, and the clerk shall docket the same.
Sec. 2956. Where appeal cognizable.—When an appeal is allowed from
any order or judgment of a justice, it shall be cognizable by the county or
corporation court of the county or corporation in which the order was
made or judgment rendered, unless it be in a case involving the constitu
tionality or validity of an ordinance or by-law of a corporation, in which
case it shall be cognizable by the circuit court having jurisdiction over
such county or corporation.
Sec. 2957. How tried; judgment.—Every such appeal shall be tried by
the court, in a summary way without pleadings in writing, or, if the
amount in controversy exceed twenty dollars, by a jury, if either party
require it. All legal evidence produced by either party shall be heard,
whether the same was produced or not before the justice from whose
decision the appeal is taken, and the case shall be determined according
to the principles of law and equity. If the decision be affirmed, execu
tion shall issue against the principal and his surety, jointly or separately,
for the amount of the original judgment, including interest and costs,
with damages on the aggregate, at the rate of ten per centum per annum,
from the date of that judgment till payment, and for the costs of the
appeal ; and the execution shall be endorsed, " no security is to be taken."
If the decision be reversed, the appellant shall recover his costs; and
such order or judgment shall be made or given as ought to have been
made or given by the justice. Where the appeal is from an order or
judgment, under section twenty-nine hundred and fifty-four, the court shall
give such judgment, respecting the property, the expense of keeping it,
and any injury done to it, as may be equitable, among the parties.
Sec. 2958. Notice to try appeal : preference over other cases.— Either
party to an appeal may give ten days' notice to the other party that a
motion will be made to try the appeal, and the court shall, on the day
named in the notice, try the appeal, without regard to its place on the
docket, unless good cause be shown by the adverse party for a contin
uance, and, if so continued, shall try it as soon as may be thereafter.
Sec. 2959. When and for what attachment may be sued out; by whom
issued; the affidavit required; who may make it. Grounds for attachment.—
If at the time of or after* the institution of any action at law for the recov
ery of specific personal property, or a debt, or damages for the breach of a
contract, express or implied, or damages for a wrong, the plaintiff, his
agent, or attorney, shall make affidavit,! stating that the plaintiff's
claim is believed to be just, and, where the action is to recover specific
personal property, the nature, and, according to the affiant's belief, the
value of such property, and the probable amount of damages the plain
tiff will recover for the detention thereof, and where it is to recover a
debt or damages for the breach of a contract, express or implied, or dam
ages for a wrong, a certain sum which (at the least) the affiant believes
the plaintiff is entitled to or ought to recover, and stating also the exist
ence, to the best of the affiant's belief, of one or more of the following
grounds for attachment : That the defendant, or one of the defendants,
First, Is a foreign corporation, or is not a resident* of this state, and
has estate or debts owing to said defendant within the county or corpo
ration in which the action is, or is sued with a defendant residing
therein ; or
Second, Is removing or about to remove out of this state, with intent
to change his domicil;t or
Third, Is removing, intends to remove, or has removed the specific
property sued for, or his own estate, or the proceeds of the sale of his
property, or a material part of such estate or proceeds, out of this state,
so that process of execution on a judgment, when obtained in said action,
will be unavailing : or
Fourth. Is converting, or is about to convert, or has converted, his
property of whatever kind, or some part thereof, into money, securities,
or evidences of debt, with intent to hinder, delay, or defraud his credi
tors; or
Fifth, Has assigned or disposed of, or is about to assign or dispose of,
his estate, or some part thereof, with intent to hinder, delay, or defraud
his creditors : In any such case, the clerk of the court in which the action
is, shall i&sue an attachment, as the case may require.
Sec. 2960. Against what attachment may he, and for what amount—If
the action be for specific personal property, the attachment may be
against such property and against the defendant's estate for so much as
is sufficient to satisfy the probable damages for its detention, or, at the
option of the plaintiff, against the defendant's estate for the value of such
specific property and the damages for its detention. If the action be to
recover a debt, or damages for the breach of a contract, express or
implied, or damages for a wrong, the attachment shall be against the
defendant's estate for the amount specified in the affidavit as that which
the affiant believes the plaintiff is entitled to or ought to recover.
Sec. 2961. Attachment against debtor removing his effects out of the state,
whether claim payable or not.—On complaint by any person, his agent,
or attorney, whether the claim of such person is payable or not, to a justice
of the county or corporation in which the debtor, against whom the
claim is, resides, or, if he has removed from the state, in which he last
resided, or, if he has never resided in the state, in which he has estate
or debts owing to him, or, if such debtor be a corporation, in which such
corporation has estate or debts owing to it, that the said debtor intends
to remove, or is removing, or has removed his effects out of this state, so
that there will probably not be therein effects of such debtor sufficient
to satisfy the claim when judgment is obtained therefor, should only the
ordinary process of law be used to obtain the judgment, if such person,
his agent or attorney, make oath to the truth of the complaint, to the
best of his belief, as well as to the amount and justice of the claim, and,
if the same is not payable, at what time it will be payable, the justice
shall issue an attachment against the estate of the debtor for the amount
so stated.
SeC' Z^2' ^a'nst tenBnt removing his effects from the leased premises.
Qn co inplaint by any lessor, his agent or attorney, to a justice of the
county or corporation in which the leased premises or a part thereof may
be, that any person liable to him for rent intends to remove, or is remov
ing, or has, within thirty days, removed his effects from such premise?,
if such lessor, his agent or attorney, make oath to the truth of such com
plaint, to the best of his belief, and to the rent which is reserved
(whether in money or other thing), and will be payable within one year,
and the time or times when it will be so payable, and also make oath
either that there is not, or he believes, unless an attachment issues, there
will not be left on such premises property liable to distress sufficient to
satisfy the rent so to become payable, such justice shall issue an attach
ment for the said rent against such goods as might be distrained for the
same, if it had become payable, and against any other estate of the per
son so liable therefor.
Sec. 2963. Against vessels in certain cases.— If any person has any
claim against the master or owner of any steamboat or other vessel, raft.
or river craft, or against any steamboat or other vessel, raft, or river craft,
found within the jurisdiction of this state, for materials or supplies fur
nished or provided, or for work done for, in, or upon the same, or for
wharfage, salvage, pilotage, or for any contract for transportation of, or
any injury done to, any person or property by such steamboat or other
vessel, raft, or river craft, or by any person having charge of her, or in
her employment, such person shall have a lien upon such steamboat or
other vessel, raft, or river craft, for such materials or supplies furnished,
work done, or services rendered, wharfage, salvage, pilotage, and for such
contract or injury as aforesaid ; and may, in a pending suit, sue out of
the clerk's office of the circuit court of the county, or the circuit or cor
poration court of the corporation, in which such steamboat or other
vessel, raft, or river craft, may be found, an attachment against such
steamboat or other vessel, raft, or river craft, with all her tackle, apparel,
furniture, and appurtenances, or against the estate of such master or
owner. Any attachment may be sued out under this section for a cause
of action that may have arisen without the jurisdiction of this state, a?
well as within it, if the steamboat or other vessel, raft, or river craft, be
within the jurisdiction of this state at the time the attachment is sued
out or executed.
Sec. 2964. Attachment in equity ; when and how issued, and against what
estate ; how proceeded in. When it may not be issued against a corpora
*'0n' —^nen a Person nas a claim, legal or equitable, to any specific per-
Bonal property, or a like claim to any debt, whether such debt be payable
or not, or to damages for the breach of any contract, express or implied,
if such claim exceed twenty dollars, exclusive of interest, he may, on a
bill in equity filed for the purpose, have an attachment to secure and
enforce the claim, on affidavit made by himself, his agent or attorney,
according to the nature of the case, conforming as nearly as its nature
will admit, to the affidavit required by section twenty-nine hundred and
fifty-nine; except that if the claim be to a debt not payable, the affidavit
shall also state the time when it will be payable. Upon such affidavit, the
plaintiff may require the clerk to endorse on a summons an order to the
officer to whom it is directed to attach the specific property (if any be men
tioned in the affidavit), and the debts owing by other defendants (if any) to
the defendant against whom the claim is, and also any other estate of that
defendant, whether in his own hancteor in the hands of other defendants.
Any attachment under this section shall be executed in the same man
ner, and shall have the same effect as at law, but the proceedings therein
shall be the same as in other suits in equity. And the court, orthe judge
thereof in vacation, may interpose by injunction, or the appointment of
a receiver or otherwise, to secure the forthcoming of the specific pro
perty sued for, and so much other estate as will probably be required to
satisfy any future order or decree that may be made in the cause. This section shall not be construed as giving to a court of equity jurisdiction
to enforce by attachment a claim to a debt not payable, where the only
ground for the attachment is that the defendant, or one of the defen
dants, against whom the claim is, is a foreign corporation, or is not a resi
dent of this state, and has estate or debts owing to the said defendant
within the county or corporation in which the suit is, or is sued with a
defendant residing therein.
Sec. 2965. To whom attachment may be directed ; where returnable.—
Any attachment issued under this chapter may be directed to the sheriff,
sergeant, or constable of any county or corporation. If issued in a pend
ing suit, it shall be returnable to a term of the court in which the same
is pending. When issued by a justice, it shall, if the claim exceed
twenty dollars (exclusive of interest) be returnable, at the option of the
plaintiff, to the next term of the circuit or county court of the county,
or to the circuit or corporation court of the corporation, in which such
justice resides.
Sec. 2966. Issue of other attachments on the original affidavit.— Upon
the application of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, other attachments
founded on the original affidavit may be issued from time to time by the
clerk of the court in which the original attachment is pending, and the
same may be directed, executed, and returned in like manner as an
original attachment. The court shall adjudge the costs of such attach
ments as to it may seem right and just.
Sec. 2967. On what estate attachment may be levied; how debts, &c,
attached ; how levy made ; how, when real estate is attached : how attachment
served. —Every attachment (except where it is sued out specially
against specified property) may be levied on any estate, real or personal,
of the defendant, or so much thereof as is sufficient to pay the amount
for which it issues, and may be levied upon any estate of the defendant,
whether the same be in the county or corporation in which the attachment
issued, or in any other, either by the officer of the county or cor-
poration wherein the attachment issued, or by the officer of the county
or corporation where the estate is. The plaintiff, his agent or attorney,
may, by an endorsement on the attachment at the time it is issued, or in
■writing at any time before the return day thereof, designate any person
as being indebted to, or having in his possession effects of, the defendant
or one of the defendants ; and in such case the officer issuing the attach
ment shall make as many copies thereof as there are persons desig
nated, with an endorsement on each copy that the person so designated is
required to appear at the term of the court to which the attachment is
returnable, and disclose on oath in what sum he is indebted to the defend
ant, and what effects of the defendant he has in his hands. It shall be
sufficiently levied, if sued out against specified propertv, bv serving the
90
attachment on the defendant, or other person having possession of such
property ; in every other case, by serving the attachment on such persons
as may be designated by the plaintiff as aforesaid ; and, where the defend
ant is in possession, by service of the attachment on him; and as to real
estate, by such estate being mentioned and described in an endorsement
on such attachment, made by the officer to whom it is delivered for ser
vice, to the following effect :
"Levied on the following real estate of the defendant A. B. [or A. B.
and C. D.], to-wit : [Here describe the estate], this the day of
E. F., Sheriff [or other officer]."
and by service of the attachment on the person, if any, in possession of
such estate. The attachment in every case may be served as a notice is
required to be served by section thirty-two hundred and seven.
Sec. 2968. When plaintiff gives the required bond, officer to take possession
of tne property.—But if the plaintiff shall, at the time of suing out
sucn attachment, or afterwards, give bond with surety, approved by the
clerk or justice issuing the attachment, in a penalty of at least double the
amount of the claim sworn to or sued for, with condition to pay all costs
and damages which may be awarded against him, or sustained by any
person, by reason of his suing out the attachment, the said officer shall
take possession of the property specified in the attachment, or, where no
such property is specified, of any estate or effects of the defendant, or so
much thereof as is sufficient to pay the plaintiff's claim. When such
bond is given, the fact shall be endorsed on the attachment, or certified
by the clerk or justice to the officer, who shall return the said certificate
with the attachment; and the bond, when taken by a justice, shall be
returned by him to, and filed in, the clerk's office of the court to which
the attachment is returnable.
Sec. 2969. Iteturn by officer—The officer levying the attachment shall
show in his return the date and manner of the service, or execution
thereof, on each person and parcel of property, and also give a list and
description of the property (if any) taken under the attachment.
Sec. 2970. Issue and execution of attachment on a Sunday.—Such attach
ment may be issued or executed on a Sunday, if oath be made that the
defendant is actually removing his effects on that day.
Sec. 2971. Lien of attachment.—The plaintiff shall have a lien from the
thiie of the levying of such attachment, or serving a copy thereof as
awrcssid, upon the personal property of the defendant against whom the
claim is, when the same is in his possession, and upon the personal prop-
crty, choses in action, and other securities of such defendant in the hands
°f> or owing by such garnishee on whom it is so served ; and on any real
estate mentioned in such an endorsement by the officer on the attach-
*
ment or summons as is prescribed bv section twenty-nine hundred and
sixty-seven, from the suing out of the same,
Sec. 2972. How any property seized under attachment restored ; how the
whole released; what bond to be given. —Any property levied on or seized
as aforesaid, under any attachment, where the plaintiff has given bond,
may be retained by or returned to the person in whose possession it was,
on his giving bond, with condition to have the same forthcoming at such
time and place as the court may require ; or the defendant against whom
the claim is, may, by giving bond with condition to perform the judg
ment or decree Of the court, release from any attachment the whole of
the estate attached. The bond, in either case, shall be taken by the offi
cer serving the attachment, with surety, payable to the plaintiff, and in
a penalty, in the latter case, at least double the amount or value for
which the attachment issued, and in the former, either double the same
or double the value of the property retained or returned, at the option of
the person giving it.
Sec. 2973. Where bond returned and tiled. Bxceptions to bond.— Ever)such
bond shall be returned by the officer to and filed by the clerk of the
court in which the suit is pending, or to which the attachment is return
able, and the plaintiff may, within thirty days after the return thereof,
file exceptions to the same, or to the sufficiency of the surety therein. If
such exception be sustained, the court shall rule the said officer to file a
good bond, with sufficient surety, to be approved by it, on or before a
certain day to be fixed by the court. If he fail to do so, he and his sure
ties in his official bond shall be liable to the plaintiff as for a breach of
such bond ; but the officer shall have the same rights and remedies
against the parties to any bonds so adjudged bad as if he were a surety
for them.
Sec. 2974. How interest and profits of property applied in certain cases;
discharge of attachment on defendant's giving bond.—When any attach
ment is sued out, either at law or in equity, under sections twenty-nine
hundred and fifty nine, twenty-nine hundred and sixty -one, or twentynine
hundred and sixty-four, although the property or estate attached be
not replevied as aforesaid, the interest and profits thereof, pending the
suit and before judgment or decree, may be paid to the defendant, if the
■ court deem it proper, and at any time during such period, the court, or
the judge thereof in vacation, may discharge the attachment, as to the
whole of the estate of the defendant against whom the claim is, on his
giving bond, with surety, payable to the plaintiff, in a ]>bnalty double the
value of such estate, with condition, if judgment or decree be rendered
for the plaintiff in said suit, to pay the said value, or so much thereof as
may be necessary to satisfy the same.
Sec. 2975. How property to be kept; how sold, when expensive to keep
or perishable.—All property seized under any attachment or order of a
court of chancery under this chapter, and not replevied or sold before
judgment or decree, shall be kept in the same manner as similar property
taken under execution ; but such as is expensive to keep or perishable,
may be sold by order of the court, or if it be a circuit court, or the court
of chancery of the city of Richmond, by order of the judge thereof in
vacation ; such sale to be made in the same manner as if it were a sale
under execution, except that when the claim for which the attachment
was sued out is not yet payable, or the court or judge sees other reason
for directing a credit, the sale under this or any other section of this chapter shall be on a credit until the time it is payable, or such other
time as the court or judge may direct ; and for the proceeds of sale, bond
with sufficient surety shall be taken, payable to the officer, for the bene
fit of the party entitled, and shall be returned by the officer to the court.
Sec. 2976. Proceedings against garnishee for debts, &c, admitted to be
due. When debtor may claim exemption out of amount due.— When any
garnishee shall appear, he shall be examined on oath. If it appear, on
such examination, or by his answer to a bill in equity, that at the time
of the service of the attachment he was indebted to the defendant against
whom the claim is, or had in his possession or control any goods,
chattels, money, securities, or other effects belonging to the said defendant,
the court may order him to pay the amount so owing by him, and to
deliver such effects to such person as it may appoint as receiver ; or such
garnishee, with the leave of the court, may give bond, with sufficient
surety, payable to such person, and in such penalty as the court shall
prescribe, with condition to pay the amount owing by him, and have
such effects forthcoming, at such time and place as the court may there
after require, but the judgment debtor, if a householder or head of a
family, may claim that the amount so found owing from the garnishee
shall be exempt from the payment of the debt to the judgment creditor ;
and if it shall appear that the said judgment debtor has not set apart and
held as exempt in other estate the amount of exemption to which he is
entitled, then the court shall render a judgment against the garnishee
only for the excess, if any, beyond the exemption to which the judg
ment debtor is entitled.
Sec. 2977. If garnishee do not appear, what the court may do.— If any
garnishee summoned as aforesaid, fail to appear in an attachment at law,
the court may either compel him to appear, or hear proof of any debt
owing by him, or of effects in his hands belonging to the defendant in
such attachment, and make such orders in relation thereto as if what is
so proved had appeared on his examination.
Sec. 2978. When plaintiff suggests that garnishee has not fully disclosed
the debts owing by him, &c. how court to ascertain same.— When it is
suggested by the plaintiff in any attachment at law, that the garnishee
has not fully disclosed the debts owing by him, or effects in his hands
belonging to the defendant in such attachment, the court, without any
formal pleading, shall inquire as to such debts and effects, or, if either
party demand it, shall cause a jury to be impaneled for that purpose, and
proceed in respect to any such found by the court or the jury, in the
same manner as if they had been confessed by the garnishee. If the
judgment of the court or verdict of the jury be in favor of the garnishee,
he shall have judgment for his costs against the plaintiff.
Sec. 2979. When order of publication made.—When an attachment,
except under sections twenty-nine hundred and sixty-one and twentynine
hundred and sixty-two, is returned executed, if the defendant has
not been served with a copy of the attachment, or with process in the
suit wherein the attachment issued, an order of publication shall be
made against him.
Sec. 2980. Who may make defence to attachment.— Either of the defen
dants in any such attachment, or any garnishee, or any party to any
forthcoming bond given as aforesaid, or the officer, who may be liable to
the plaintiff by reason of such bond being adjudged bad, or any person
authorized by section twenty-nine hundred and eighty-four, to file a peti
tion, may make defence to such attachment, but the attachment shall
not thereby be discharged, or the property levied on released.
Sec. 2981. What defence may be made ; when motion to quash heard :
jn^Sment court on tne merits.—The right to sue out any such attach-
ment may be contested ; and when the court is of opinion that it was
issued on false suggestions, or without sufficient cause, judgment shall be
•
entered that it be abated. If the attachment be returnable to a circuit
court, the judge thereof may, in vacation, either before or at any time
after it has been returned, on the motion of any one or more of the per
sons mentioned in the preceding section, upon ten days' notice of the
motion to the attaching creditor, hear testimony and quash the attach
ment, if of the opinion that it is invalid on its face, or was issued on false
suggestions, or without sufficient cause. When the attachment is prop
erly sued out, and the case is heard upon its merits, if the court be of
opinion that the claim of the plaintiff is not established, final judgment
shall be given for the defendant. In either case, he shall recover his
costs, and there shall be an order for the restoration of the attached
effects to him.
Sec. 2982. Judgment, &c, of court when claim of plaintiff established. Real
estate to be sold last. Sale thereof under attachment at law.—If the claim
of the plaintiff be established, judgment or decree shall be rendered for
him, and the court shall dispose of the specific property mentioned in sections twenty-nine hundred and sixty and twenty-nine hundred and
sixty -four, as may be right, and order the sale of any other effects or real
estate, which shall not have been previously released or sold under this chapter, and direct the proceeds of sale, and whatever else is subject to
the attachment, including what is embraced by such forthcoming bond,
to be applied in satisfaction of the judgment or decree. But no real
estate shall be sold until all other property and money subject to the
attachment have been exhausted, and then only so much thereof as is
necessary to pay the judgment or decree. Upon a sale of real estate,
under an attachment at law, the court shall have the same powers and
jurisdiction, and the like proceedings thereon may be had, as if it were a
sale of real estate under an attachment in equity.
Sec. 2983. When plaintiff not to have benefit of the preceding section
until he gives bond.—If the defendant against whom the claim is, has
not appeared or been served with a copy of the attachment sixty days
before such judgment or decree, the plaintiff shall not have the benefit
of the preceding section, unless and until he shall have given bond, with
sufficient surety, in such penalty as the court shall approve, with condi
tion to perform such future order as may be made upon the appearance
of the said defendant, and his making defence. If the plaintiff fail to
give such bond, in a reasonable time, the court shall dispose of the estate
attached or the proceeds thereof, as to it shall seem just.
Sec. 2984. How and when claims of other persons to the property tried,
Any person may file his petition, at any time before the property
attached as the estate of a defendant is sold, or the proceeds of sale paid
' c 1
to the plaintiff under the decree or judgment, disputing the validity of
the plaintiff's attachment thereon, or stating a claim thereto, or an inte
rest in or lien on the same, under any other attachment or otherwise,
and its nature, and upon giving security for costs, the court, without any
other pleading, shall inquire into such claim, or, if either party demand
it, impanel a jury for that purpose, and if it be found that the petitioner
has title to, or a lien on, or any interest in, such property, or its proceeds,
the court shall make such order as may be necessary to protect his
rights, the costs of which inquiry shall be paid by either party, at the
discretion of the court. '
Sec. 2985. Levy of attachment on effects, &c, of defendant in hands of
officer nnder process ; lien thereof. —Where an officer has in his posses
sion or custody money or effects of the defendant held under an attach
ment executed, or other legal process, a delivery to such officer of an
attachment under this chapter shall be deemed a levy thereof as to such
money or effects, and constitute a lien thereon from the time of such
delivery.
Sec. 2986. When and how debtor may have case reheard. Protection of
purchaser.— If a defendant, against whom, on publication, judgment or
decree is rendered under any such attachment, or his personal represen
tative, shall return to or appear openly in this state, he may, within one
year after a copy of such judgment or decree shall be served on him at
the instance of the plaintiff, or within five years from the date of the
decree or judgment, if he be not so served, petition to have the proceed
ings reheard. On giving security for costs, he shall be admitted to make
defence against such judgment or decree, as if he had appeared in the
case before the same was rendered, except that the title of any bona fide
purchaser to any property, real or personal, sold under such attachment,
shall not be brought in question or impeached. But this section shall
not apply to any case in which the petitioner, or his decedent, was served
with a copy of the attachment, or with process in the suit wherein it
issued, more than sixty days before the date of the judgment or decree,
or to any case in which he appeared and made defence.
Sec. 2987. Order of court on rehearing or new trial. Restitution to defen
dant. — On any rehearing or new trial had under the preceding section,
the court may order the plaintiff in the original suit to restore any money,
paid to him under such judgment or decree, to the heir or representative
of such defendant as the same may be the proceeds of real or personal
estate, and enter a judgment or decree therefor against him, or it may con
firm the former judgment or decree ; and in either case adjudge the costs
to the prevailing party.
2988. How attachment for claim not exceeding twenty dollars obtained
from, and proceeded in before, a justice. The proceeding, when levied on
real estate.— Any person having a claim, which is cognizable by a justice
under the first section of chapter one hundred and forty, if such claim is
payable and does not exceed t wenty dollars (exclusive of interest), upon
complaint on oath by such person, his agent or attorney, conforming as
nearly as maybe to the affidavit prescribed by sections twenty-nine hun
dred and fifty-nine and twenty-nine hundred and sixty-four, as the case
may be, in which affidavit the only grounds for the attachment stated
are the first, second, and third specified in section twenty-nine hundred
and fifty-nine, or one or more of them, may obtain from such justice as is
mentioned in section twenty -nine hundred and sixty-one, an attachment
against the specific property (if any) claimed, and against the estate of
the defendants, if the claim be not for specific property, directed to the
sheriff, sergeant, or constable of any county or corporation, and made
returnable before the justice issuing the attachment, or some other justice
of the came county or corporation, and thereupon such proceedings may
be had before the justice as would, if the claim exceeded twenty dollars
(exclusive of interest) be had before a court, except that the proceedings
shall in all cases be without formal pleadings, and an order of publication
need not be published in any newspaper, and the justice shall try and
decide the case without a jury. The attachment lnay be served on a cor
poration as process or notice may be served under section thirty-two hun
dred and twenty-five. All bonds taken under such attachment shall he
filed with the clerk of the county or corporation to which the justice
belongs. If such attachment be levied on real estate, the justice shall
take no further cognizance of it, but it shall be removed by him, together
with all papers and proceedings in the case, into any court to which an
attachment issued by a justice for a claim exceeding twenty dollars (exclu
sive of interest) might have been returnable, and be further proceeded
with in said court, as if it had been originally cognizable therein.
Sec. 2989. When appeal-bond given, property to be delivered to owner.— c
Where judgment or decree in favor of the plaintiff is rendered in any case ^
in which an attachment is sued out, and on appeal therefrom an appeal-
bond is given, with condition to prosecute the appeal with effect or pay
the debt, interest, costs, and damages, as well as the costs of the appeal,
the officer, in whose custody any attached property is, shall deliver the
same to the owner thereof.
Sec. 2990. Bonds may be given by any person.— Any bond authorized or i
required by any section of this chapter may be given either by the party 3
himself or by any other person. J
Sec. 2991. When and how bail required of defendant leaving the slate ; m
c
form of writ. —If in any action or suit, the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney,
shall make affidavit before the court in which it is pending, or the 7
judge thereof in vacation, or a justice, stating that the plaintiff has cause
of action or suit against a defendant, the amount and justice of his claim,
and that there is probable cause for believing that the defendant is about
to quit this state, unless he be forthwith apprehended, it shall be lawful
for such court, judge, or justice to direct that such defendant shall be held
to bail for such sum as the said court, judge, or justice may think fit;
and thereupon the plaintiff may sue out of the clerk'B office, in such
action or suit, a writ of capias ad respondendum against the defendant, the
form of which writ shall, in a suit in equity, as well as in an action at
law, be as nearly as may be assimilated to the form of such writ as it
was used at law before the first day of July, eighteen hundred and fifty.
Sec. 2992. His arrest and commitment unless bond given ; its condition.—
Under such capias, the defendant against whom it issues shall be arrested
and committed to jail, unless bond be given in the sum aforesaid, with
sufficient surety that in case there shall in the action or suit be any judg
ment, decree, or order on which a writ of fieri facias may issue, and
within four months after such judgment, decree, or order interrogatories
be filed, under section thirty-six hundred and three, with a commis
sioner of the court wherein such judgment, decree, or order is, the said
defendant will, at the time the commissioner issues a summons to answer
such interrogatories, be in the county or corporation in which such com
missioner may reside, and will, within the time prescribed in such sum
mons, file proper answers, upon oath, to such interrogatories, and make
such conveyance and delivery as is required by chapter one hundred and
seventy-six, or in case of failure to file such answers and make such con
veyance and delivery, that the defendant will perform and satisfy the
said judgment, decree, or order.
Sec. 2993. Who may take it ; where filed.—The bond authorized by the
preceding section may be taken by the officer making the arrest, by the
court from which the capias issued, the judge thereof in vacation, or by
the clerk of such court. The bond shall be returned to and filed in the
clerk's office of such court.
Sec. 2994. When and how capias quashed, and defendant discharged.—
If the defendant give such bond, or be committed to jail for the want of
it, the court in which the case is pending, or if it be a circuit or corpora
tion court, the judge thereof in vacation, may, after reasonable notice to
the plaintiff, or his attorney, quash the capias and the bond, and dis
charge the defendant from custody, on being satisfied that there was not
prubable cause for believing that the defendant was about to quit the
state, and whether there was such cause or not, may discharge him from
custody when the plaintiff is cast in the action or suit.
Sec. 2995. When plaintiff may file interrogatories. If not filed, court
may discharge defendant.— While a defendant is in custody, whether
under an arrest made heretofore or hereafter, the plaintiff, without hav
ing a judgment against the defendant, may file interrogatories to him in
like manner as might be done under section thirty-six hundred and
three, if such judgment had been obtained and a fieri facias thereon
delivered to an officer. And the court wherein the case i» pending, or
the judge thereof in vacation, may, after reasonable notice to the plaintiff,
or his attorney, discharge a defendant from custody, unless interrogatories
be filed within such time as the said court or judge may deem reasona
ble ; or, though interrogatories be filed, may discharge him when proper
answers thereto are filed and proper conveyance and delivery made.
Sec. 2996. To whom conveyance to be made; what to be returned to
court; disposition of the property.—The conveyance required by the pre
ceding section shall be made to the officer making the arrest, or if for
any reason it cannot be made to him, then to such other officer as the
court or judge may direct. The interrogatories, answers, and report of
the commissioner shall be returned to the court in which the case is
pending, and filed with the papers of such case. And the said court may
make such order as it may deem right as to the sale and proper applica
tion of the estate conveyed and delivered under the preceding section.
Sec. 2997. Plaintiff to give bond before suing out capias.—"Before a capias
is sued out of the clerk's office in any action or suit, the plaintiff" in such
action or suit, or some other person, shall file in the clerk's office, bond,
with surety approved by the clerk, in a penalty equal to the sum in which
the defendant is directed to be held to bail, payable to said defendant,
with condition to pay all costs and damages which may be awarded
against the plaintiff or sustained by the defendant by reason of the arrest
of the defendant under said caputs.
Sec. 2998. The proceeding, when defendant disclaims interest in the subject.
How right of third party tried.—Upon affidavit of a defendant in
anv action that he claims no interest in the subject matter of the suit,
' J
but that some third party has a claim thereto, and that he does not collude
with such third party, but is ready to pay or dispose of the subject
matter of the action as the court may direct, the court may make an
order requiring such third party to appear and state the nature of his
claim, and maintain or relinquish it, and in the meantime stay the pro
ceedings in such action. If such third party, on being served with such
order, shall not appear, the court may, on proof of the plaintiff's right,
render judgment for him, and declare such third party to be forever
barred of any claim in respect of the subject matter, either against the
plaintiff or the original defendant, or his personal representative. If
such third party, on being so served, shall appear, the court shall allow
him to make himself defendant in the action, and, either in said action
or otherwise, cause such issue or issues to be tried as it may prescribe
and may direct which party shall be considered the plaintiff in, the
issues, and shall give judgment upon the verdict rendered on such trial
or, if a jury be waived by the parties interested, shall determine their
claims in a summary way.
Sec. 2999. How claim of third party tried to property distrained or levie
on. —When property, of the value of more than twenty dollars, is taken
under a warrant of distress, or under an execution issued by a justice, o
when property of any value is taken under an execution issued by t he clerk
of a court, and any person, other than the party against whom the process
issued, claims such property, or the proceeds or value thereof, the circui
or county court of the county, or the circuit or corporation court of the
corporation, in which the property is taken, or the judge of such circuit
or corporation court in vacation, upon the application of the officer,
where no indemnifying bond lias been given, or, if one has been given,
on the application of the person who claims such property and has given
such suspending bond as is hereinafter mentioned, may cause to appear
before such court as well the party issuing such process as the party
making such claim, and such court may exercise, for the decision of their
rights, all or any of the powers and authority prescribed in the preced
ing section.
Sec. 3000. Power of court in cases under the two preceding sections.—
Such court, on the application of the party issuing said process, may cause
to appear before it the party making such claim, and may exercise the
like powers and authority. In such case as is mentioned in this or the
preceding section, the court, where no bond is given for the forthcoming
of the property, or, if it be a circuit or corporation court, the judge
thereof in vacation may, before a decision of the rights, make an order
for the sale of the property, or any part thereof, on such terms as the
court or judge may deem advisable, and for the proper application of the
proceeds according to the said rights. In any case before mentioned in
this chapter, the court or judge may make all such rules and orders, and
enter such judgment as to costs and all other matters, as may be just and
proper.
Sec. 3001. Indemnifying bond to officer; its penalty and condition.— If
any officer levies, or is required to levy an execution or a warrant of dis
tress, on property, or to attach money or property under an attachment^
issued either by a justice or by the clerk of any court, and a doubt shall
arise whether the said money or property is liable to such levy or attach
ment, he may give the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney-at-law, notice that
an indemnifying bond is required in the case; bond may thereupon be
given by any person, with good security, payable to the officer, in a pen
alty equal to double the value of the property, with condition to indem
nify him against all damage which he may sustain in consequence of the
seizure or sale of said property, and to pay to any claimant of such prop
erty all damage which he may sustain in consequence of such seizure or
sale, and also to warrant and defend to any purchaser of the property
such estate or interest therein as is sold.
Sec. 3002. Course of officer, when it is given, and when not. Where
returned, when given.— If such bond be not given within a reasonable
time after such notice, the officer may refuse to levy on or to attach such
property, or may restore it to the person from whose possession it was
taken, as the Ciise may be. If it be given, where there has been no levy,
within a reasonable time, or after a levy or attachment, before the prop
erty .is so restored, it shall be returned within twenty days to the clerk's
office from which the execution or attachment issued, or if the execution
or attachment was not issued by a clerk, to the office of the court to
which the attachment is returnable, or if it be an execution, to the
office of the court by which such officer was appointed or in which he
qualified.
Sec. 3003. Effect of such bond. Claimant may give suspending bond; its
effect. Suits on such bonds. —The claimant or purchaser of such property
shall, after such bond is so returned, be barred of any action against the
officer levying thereon, provided the security therein be good at the time
of taking it; but the sale of any such property shall be suspended attho
instance of any claimant thereof who will deliver to the officer bond,
with good security, in a penalty equal to double the value thereof, pay
able to said officer, with condition to pay to all persons who may be
injured by suspending the sale thereof, until the claim thereto can be
adjusted, such damage as they may sustain by such suspension. Upon
any such bond as is mentioned in this or the preceding section, suit may
be prosecuted in the name of the officer for the benefit of the claimant,
creditor, purchaser, or other person injured, and such damages recovered
in said suit as a jury may assess. The same may bo prosecuted and exe
cution had in the name of such officer when he is dead in like manner
as if he were alive.
Sec. 3004. How forthcoming bond taken of claimant of property, the
sale whereof has been snspenlsil. Sale of property, if expensive to keep
or perishable. —The sheriff or other officer levying a writ of fieri facias or
distress warrant on property, the sale of which is suspended under this chapter, at the instance of a claimant thereof, may, if such claimant
<lesire the property to remain in such possession as it was immediately
before the levy, and if the case be one in which a bond for the forth
coming of the property is not prohibited from being taken from the
debtor by section thirty-six hundred and twenty-three, take from the
claimant a bond, with sufficient surety, in a penalty equal to double the
value of the property, payable to the creditor, with such recital as is
required in a forthcoming bond taken from the debtor, and with condi
tion that the property shall be forthcoming at such day and place of sale
as may be thereafter lawfully appointed; whereupon, such property may
be permitted to remain, at the risk of such claimant, in such possession
as it was immediately before the levy; and sections thirty-six hundred
and nineteen, thirty-six hundred and twenty, thirty-six hundred and
twenty-two, thirty -six hundred and twenty-three, and thirty-six hundred
and twenty-four, shall apply to such forthcoming bond in like manner as
to a forthcoming bond taken from the debtor. But, notwithstanding
such forthcoming bond be given, if such property be expensive to keep
or perishable, the court in which proceedings in the case under sections
twenty-nine hundred and ninety-nine and three thousand are pending
or may be had, or, if such court be a circuit or corporation court, the
judge thereof in vacation, may, before a decision of the rights of the
parties under such proceedings, on the application of such claimant or of
the surety in such suspending or forthcoming bond, after reasonable
notice of the intended application has been given by such claimant or
the surety to the other parties in the case, order a sale of the property,
or any part thereof, on such terms as the court or judge may deem advi
sable ; and the court shall apply the proceeds according to the said rights
when determined.
Sec. 3005. When property sells for more than claim, how surplus paid.—
When property, the sale of which is indemnified, sells for more thanc
enough to satisfy the execution, attachment, or distress warrant under
which it is taken, the surplus shall be paid by the officer into the court
to the office whereof the indemnifying bond is required to be returned,
or as such court may direct. The said court may make such order for
the disposition thereof, either temporarily, until the question as to the title to the property sold is determined, or absolutely, as in respect to the
rights of those interested may seem to it proper.
Sec. 3006. Submission of controversy to arbitration ; may be entered of
record; rule of coart thereon. — Persons desiring to end any controversy,
whether there be a suit pending therefor or not, may submit the same
to arbitration, and agree that such submission may be entered of record
in any court. Upon proof of such agreement out of court, or by consent
of the parties given in court, in person or by counsel, it shall be entered
in the proceedings of such court; and thereupon a rule shall be made,
that the parties shall submit to the award which shall be made in pur
suance of such agreement.
Sec. 3007. Submission irrevocable ; power of court over it.—No such
submission, entered or agreed to be entered of record in any court, shall
be revocable by any party to such submission, without the leave of such
court; and such court may, from time to time, enlarge the term within
which an award is required to be made.
Sec. 3008. How award entered as the judgment of court.—Upon the
return of any such award, made under such an agreement (whether anyprevious
record of the submission, or a rule thereupon, has been made or
not), it shall be entered up as the judgment or decree of the court, unless
good cause be shown against it at the first term after the parties have
been summoned to show cause against it.
Sec. 3009. For what award set aside.— No such award shall be set aside,
except for errors apparent on its face, unless it appear to have been pro
cured by corruption or other undue means, or that there was partiality
or misbehavior in the arbitrators or umpires, or any of them. But this section shall not be construed to take away the power of courts of equity
over awards.*
Sec. 3010. Fiduciary may submit to arbitration. —Any personal repre
sentative of a decedent, guardian of an infant, committee of an insane
person, or trustee, may submit to arbitration any suit or matter of con
troversy touching the estate or property of such decedent, infant, or
insane person, or in respect to which he is trustee. And any submission
so made in good faith, and, the award made thereupon, shall be binding
and entered as the judgment of a court, if so required by the agreement,
in the same manner as other submissions and awards. No such fiduciary
shall be responsible for any loss sustained by an award adverse to the
interests of his ward, insane person, or beneficiary under any such trust,
unless it was caused by his fault or neglect.
Sec. 3011. Application for mandanins or prohibition.— Application for a
writ of mandamus or a writ of prohibition shall be on petition verified by
oath, after the party against whom the writ is prayed has been served
■with a copy of the petition and notice of the intended application, a
reasonable time before such application is made.
Sec. 3012. What petition to state; where presented.— The petition shall
state plainly and concisely the grounds of the application, concluding
■with a prayer for the writ, and shall be presented to the court having
jurisdiction * or to the judge thereof in vacation (unless the application
be to the supreme court of appeals).
Sec. 3013. When writ awarded.— When the application is made, on
proof of notice and service of the copy of the petition as aforesaid, if the
defendant fail to appear, or appearing fail to make defence, and the
petition states a case proper for the writ, a peremptory writ shall bo
awarded with costs.
Sec. 3014. Defence, how made.—If the defendant appear and make
•defence, such defence may be by demurrer, or answer on oath, to the
petition, or by both, such answer to lie subject to any just exceptions by
the petitioner. ;
Sec. 3015. Adjournment. — When the case is before the judge in vaca
tion, he may adjourn it from day to day, or from time to time, until
finally disposed of.
Sec. 3016, Trial by jury; what judgment to be rendered.— Upon the
petition and answer, if either party demand a jury, the court or judge
shall direct such issues of fact as may be proper, to be tried in term ; and
whether the trial be had with or without a jury, the writ peremptory
shall be awarded or denied according to the law and facts of the caser
and with or without costs, as the court or judge may determine.
Sec. 3017. The proceedings, where application is to conrt of appeals.
If the application be to the supreme court of appeals, the case shall be
heard and determined without a jury, and witnesses shall not be allowed
to testify vim roce before the court, but their testimony, if desired, may
be used in the form of depositions taken by either party on reasonable
notice to the other, or his attorney, of the time and place of taking the
same.
Sec. 3018. Suspension of proceedings, where prohibition applied for.— On
petition for a writ of prohibition, the court, or judge in vacation, may, at
any time before or after the application for the writ is made, if deemed
proper, make an order, a copy of which shall be served on the defendant,
suspending the proceedings sought to be prohibited until the final decision
of the cause.
Sec. 3019. How proceedings in vacation certified and entered.— When the
proceedings on the petition are had before the judge in vacation, he shall
certify the same and any judgment, or order, made by him in the case,
to the clerk of the court, and they shall be entered by the clerk in the
order book on the law side of the court, and have the same force and
effect as if had or made and entered in term.
Sec. 3020. Service of writ ; how obedience enforced.— Service of a copy
of the order awaiting the writ shall be equivalent to service of the writ,
and obedience to the writ or order may be enforced by process of con
tempt in vacation in like manner as in term.
Sec. 3021. Chapter 22 not affected.— Nothing in the foregoing sections
of this chapter shall effect the requirements of chapter twenty-two in a
case of mandamus therein provided for, so far as the said sections are
inconsistent with such requirements.
CHAPTER CXLV.
OF THE WlilT OF 0.U0 WARRANTO, AND INFORMATION IN THE NATl'RE OF .»
WRIT OF IJUO WARRANTO.*
Sec See.
30*22. In whfit cases writ ot quo warranto uarraitto; when leave granted
awarded. and summons issued.
3023. When, where, how. anil by whom 3026. How writ or summons directed an<*
the writ to be applied for. served.
3024. When awarded; when returnable; 3027. Trial ol writ or information; howhow
signed and attested; when j defence made; what to be taken
bond required. as true ; when case reheard.
3025. When, where, how, and by whom 3028. Verdict; judgment; costs; attor-
leave may be asked to' file infor-. i ney's fee.
mation in nature of writ of quo \
Sec. 3022. In what cases, writ of quo warranto awarded.— A writ of quo
warranto may be awarded and prosecuted in the name of the state of Vir
ginia, in any of the following cases, to-wit :
First. Against a corporation (other than a municipal corporation) for a
misuse or non-use of its corporate privileges and franchises, or for the
exercise of a privilege or franchise not conferred upon it by law, or where
a charter of incorporation has been obtained by it from a court for a
fraudulent purpose, or for a purpose not authorized by law ;
Second, Against a person for the misuse or a non-use of any privilege
and franchise conferred upon him by or in pursuance of law ;
Third, Against any person or persons acting as a corporation (other
than a municipal corporation) without authority of law ; and
Fourth, Against any person who shall intrude into or usurp any public
office. But no such writ shall be awarded or prosecuted against any
person now in office for any cause which would have been available in
support of a proceeding to contest the election of such person to such
office.
Sec. 3023. When, where, how, and by whom the writ to be applied for.—
Whenever the Attorney General or attorney for the commonwealth of
any county or corporation, the circuit or corporation court whereof has
jurisdiction* of the proceeding, is satisfied that a cause for the writ
exists, he may, at his own instance, or at the relation of any person
interested, apply by petition to the said circuit or corporation court or to
the judge thereof in vacation, to have such writ issued, and shall state
the reasons therefor in the petition. If the Attorney General or the
attorney forthe commonwealth, upon beiiifr requested as aforesaid, refuse
or fail to apply for the writ, the person so interested may present his
petition to such court or judge asking for the same.
Sec. 3021. When awarded : where returnable; how signed and attested ;
when bond required. —If, in the opinion of the court or judge, the reasons
so stated in the petition are sufficient in law, the said writ shall be awarded
by the court or judge, returnable to the next term of the court, and the
same shall be signed by the judge and attested by the clerk of such court.
But if the writ be awarded at the relation of any person, it shall not be
issued until the relator shall have given bond with sufficient surety (if
such bond be required by the court or judge), to be approved by the clerk,
in such penalty as the court or judge shall prescribe with condition that
the relator shall pay all such costs and expenses as may be incurred by
the state in the prosecution of the writ, incase the same shall not be recov
ered from and paid by the defendant therein.
Sec. 3025. When, where, how. and by whom leave may he asked to Hie
information in nature of writ of quo warranto ; when leave granted and
summons issued. —In any case in which a writ of (juo warranto would lie,
the Attorney-General or attorney for the commonwealth of the county or
corporation, the circuit or coporation court whereof has jurisdiction* of
the proceeding, at his own instance, or at the relation of any person inter
ested, or any person interested may, in the name of the state of Virginia,
apply to the said circuit or corporation court, or to the judge thereof in
vacation, for leave to file an information in the nature of a writ of »/'"'
warranto for any of the causes and against any corporation, officer, or per
son mentioned in section three thousand and twenty-two, and he shall,
at the time of the application, present to the court or judge the informa
tion he proposes to file. If, in the opinion of the court or judge, the mat-
ters stated in the information are sufficient in law to authorize the same,
to be filed, an order shall be made directing it to be filed, and awarding
a summons against the defendant named therein to answer the same,
returnable as provided in the preceding section. But if the leave to file
the information be asked on the relation of any person, or by any person
at his own instance, the summons thereon shall not be issued by the clerk
until such relator or person shall have given bond with surety (if such
bond be required by the court or judge), as provided by the said section.
Sec. 3026. How writ or summons directed and served.— Every such writ or
summons may be directed to the sheriff of any county or the sergeant of
any corporation, and shall be served as a notice is served under sections
thirty-two hundred and seven and thirty-two hundred and eight ; unless
it be against a corporation, in which case it shall be served as provided
in sections thirty-two hundred and twenty-five.
Sec. 3027. Trial of writ or information ; how defence made ; what to be
taken as true; when case reheard.— If the defendant named in such writ
or information fail to appear after the service of the writ or summons, the
court may hear proof of the allegations of the petition or information, and,
if the allegations be sustained, shall give judgment accordingly. But if the
service be made by publication, the defendant against whom the judg
ment is rendered, may, at the next term of the court, on petition filed for
the purpose and upon giving bond with good security, in a penalty to be
prescribed by the court, with condition to pay all such costs as shall be
awarded in the cause against such defendant, have the said judgment set
aside, and make such defence to the petition orinformation as such defen
dant might have made, and in the same manner, before the judgment
was rendered. If the defendant appear before the end of the term next
after the service of the writ or summons, or thereafter before judgment is
rendered against such defendant, such defendant may demur or plead
" not guilty,'" or both, to such writ, or demur or answer in writing, or both,
to such information ; and every allegation contained in the information
which is not denied by the answer shall be taken as true, and no proof
thereof shall be required.
Sec. 3028. Verdict ; judgment; costs; attorney's fee.— If, on the trial of
the writ or information, the defendant be found guilty, or not guilty, of
any of the charges therein, the verdict shall be " guilty," or " not guilty,"
as the case may be ; but if the defendant be found guilty as to a part
only of such charges, the verdict shall be " guilty " as to such part, and
shall particularly specify the same, and, as to the residue of said charges,
the verdict shall be " not guilty." Against the defendant so found guilty
the court shall give such judgment as is appropriate and authorized by
law, and for the costs incurred in the prosecution of the writ or informa
tion, including an attorney's fee, of not less than ten nor more than fifty
dollars, to be fixed by the court.
Sec. 3029. When and by whom the writ granted.—The writ of habeas
corpus ad subjiciendum shall be granted forthwith by any circuit, corpora-
tion, or county court, or any judge of either in vacation, to any person
who shall apply for the same by petition, showing by affidavits or other
evidence, probable cause to believe that he is detained without lawful
authority-
Sec. 3030. How directed and returnable.—The writ shall be directed to
the person in whose custody the petitioner is detained, and made return-
able as soon as may be before the court or judge ordering the same, or
any other of the said courts or judges.
Sec. 3031. Bond may be required of petitioner.—The court or judge
granting the writ may previously require bond, with surety, in a reason
able penally, payable to the person to whom the writ is directed, with
condition that the petitioner will not escape by the way, and for the pay
ment of such costs and charges as may be awarded against him. It shall
be filed with the other proceedings on the writ, and may be sued on for
the benefit of any person injured by the breach of its condition.
Sec. 3032. How writ served.—The writ shall be served on the person to
whom it is directed, or, in his absence from the place where the peti
tioner is confined, on the person having the immediate custody of him.
Sec. 3033. Penalty for disobeying it.—If any person on whom such writ
is served shall, in disobedience to such writ, fail to bring the body of the
petitioner, with a return of the cause of his detention, before a court or
judge before whom the writ is returnable, for three days after such ser
vice, or when he has to bring the prisoner more than twenty miles, for so
many more days as is equal to one day for every twenty miles of such
further distance, he shall forfeit to the petitioner three hundred dollars.
Sec. 3034. Judgment of court or judge trying it.— The court or judge
before whom the petitioner is brought, after hearing the matter, both
upon the return and any other evidence, shall either discharge or remand
him, or admit him to bail, as may be proper, and adjudge the costs of the
proceeding, including the charge for transporting the prisoner, to be paid
as shall teem to be right.
Sec. 3035. When affidavits may be read.— In the discretion of the court
orjudge, the affidavits of witnesses taken by either party, on reasonable
notice to the other, may be read as evidence.
Sec. 3036. Fact* proved may be made part of record.— All the material
facts proved shall, when it is required by either party, be made a part of
the proceedings, which, when they are had in vacation, shall be signed
by the judge and certified to the clerk of the circuit or county court of
the county, or the circuit or corporation court of the corporation, in
which the judgment is rendered, and be entered by him among the
records of the court.
Sec. 3037. Judge to have same power as court, and his judgment same
effect. —The judge issuing any such writ in vacation, or the judge before
whom it is tried, shall have the same power to enforce obedience to the
writ, to compel the attendance of witnesses, or to punish contempts of
his authority, as a court, has; and his judgment on the trial of the writ,
when entered of record as aforesaid, shall be considered and be enforced
as if it were a judgment of the court, anions whose records it is entered.
Sec 3038. Judgment, conclusive.— Any such judgment entered of record
shall be conclusive, unless the same be reversed, except that the peti
tioner shall not be precluded from bringing the same matter in question
in an action for false imprisonment.
Sec. 3039. How and when court of appeals summoned to try appeal there
from.— If, during the recess of the court of appeals, the Governor or the
president of the court should think the immediate revision of any such
judgment to be proper, he may summon the court for that purpose, to
meet on any day to be fixed by him. ■ .
Sec. 3040. When prisoner remanded, execution of judgment not to he sus
pended; when prisoner admitted to hail.- When the prisoner is remanded,
the execution of the judgment shall not be suspended by the writ of error,
or suspended for the purpose of applying for one; but where he is
ordered to be discharged, and the execution of the judgment is sus
pended for the purpose of applying for a writ of error, the court or judge
making such suspending order, may, in their discretion, admit the
prisoner to bail until the expiration of the time allowed for applying for
the writ of error, or, in case the writ of error be allowed, until the deci
sion of the court of appeals thereon is duly certified.
Sec. 3041. Writ de homine abolished.— The writ tie homine rcplsgiando is
abolished.
Sec. 3042. When and by whom writs of habeas corpus ad testificandum
granted. —Writs of habeas corpus ad. testificandum may be granted by any
circuit, corporation, or county court, or any judge thereof in vacation, in
the same manner and under the same conditions and provisions as are
prescribed by this chapter, as to granting the writ of habeas corpus a4 snb-
jiciendum, so far as the same are applicable.
Sec. 3043. County courts; their judges ; how elected. —For every county
there shall be a court called the county court, which shall be held by a
judge learned in the law of the state, and to be known as the county
court judge, who shall be chosen by the General Assembly in the same
manner as judges of the circuit courts.
Sec. 3044. Counties and districts of judges.— For each of the following
counties, to-wit, Accomac, Albemarle, Amelia. Amherst, Appomattox,
Augusta, Bedford, Botetourt, Brunswick, Buckingham, Campbell, Caro
line, Carroll, Charlotte, Chesterfield, Culpeper, Dinwiddie, Essex, Fau
quier, Floyd, Fluvanna, Franklin, Frederick, Gloucester, Goochland,
Greenesville, Grayson, Halifax, Hanover, Henrico, Henry, Isle of Wight
King and Queen, King William, Lee, Louisa, Loudoun, Lunenburg, Meck
lenburg, Montgomery, Nansemond, Nelson, Norfolk, Northampton, Notto
way, Orange, Page, Patrick, Pittsylvania, Prince Edward, Princess Anne,
Prince William, Pulaski, Rappahannock, Roanoke, Rockbridge, Rocking
ham, Russell, Scott, Shenandoah, Smyth, Southampton, Spotsylvania,
Sussex, Tazewell, Washington, Wise, and Wythe; and for each of the
following districts, to-wit, Alleghany and Craig, Bath and Highland,
Bland and Giles, Buchanan and Dickenson, Cumberland and Powhatan,
Elizabeth City and Warwick, Fairfax and Alexandria county, James
City, York, and City of Williamsburg, King George and Stafford, Madi
son and Greene, Middlesex and Mathews, New Kent and Charles City,
Northumberland and Lancaster, Prince George and Surry, Warren and
Clark, and Westmoreland and Richmond, there shall be one county
court judge.
Sec. 11045. Terms of county courts ; how long continue ; what may be
done at any term. —There shall be monthly in each county a term of the
county court, to be held at the times prescribed by law, and with the
jurisdiction hereinafter provided, and such term may continue not
exceeding fifteen days. The court may, from time to time, change the
day for the commencement of the terms thereof, and the clerk of such
court, within thirty days after any change has been made, shall send a
copy of the order making it to the clerk of the House of Delegates. All
matters and things authorized by law to be done by or in the county
court may be done at any term thereof.
•
Sec. 3046. Their jurisdiction. —The county courts (concurrently with
" ■
the circuit courts) shall have jurisdiction of writs of mandamus in all
matters or proceedings arising from or appertaining to the action of the
boards of supervisors of the counties for which the said courts are
respectively held. They shall have original jurisdiction of all present
ments, informations, and indictments for felonies and misdemeanors, and
the proceedings thereon, and appellate jurisdiction in such cases as are
allowed by law to be brought before them on appeal. They shall also
have jurisdiction of all causes, motions, and other matters and things
made cognizable therein by law. .
Sec. 3047. Their power over final judgments ami decrees entered prior to
August I, 1873. —Where any case at law or in chancery has been deter
mined in the county court by judgment, decree, or order, prior to the first
day of August, eighteen hundred and seventy-three, the said court shall
have jurisdiction to enforce by proper process, or revise and correct the
same, or any rule, entry, or endorsement by any clerk, in like manner, in
all respects, as it might have done the day prior to the said first day of
August, eighteen hundred and seventy-three, and to hear and determine
all motions on bonds taken under any process issued upon said judg
ment, decree, or order. Scire facia* to revive a judgment under this section, shall be returnable to the first day of a term of the court, and
final judgment thereon shall be entered at the next succeeding term,
unless the defendant appear at such term and make defence thereto ; in
which case, the issues shall be made and tried at the same term, unless
for good cause the case shall be continued.
Sec. 3048. Removal to circuit courts of causes, of which county courts
have no jurisdiction ; how thereafter proceeded in.— All causes at law and
in chancery, which were pending in a county court on the first day of
August, eighteen hundred and seventy-three, whereof said court had no
jurisdiction after said day, shall (unless it has already been done) be
removed to the circuit court of said county; and the clerk of the county
court shall deliver to the clerk of the circuit court, the original papers of
all causes so removed, and, if either party to the suit require it, copies of
all rules and orders made in such causes and not found in the original
papers, and a statement of the costs incurred by each party therein, and
he shall enter on the record hook of the county court the disposition
made of the said causes. The clerk of the circuit court shall receive and
tile in the office of said court the papers so removed, and the causes,
whether heretofore or hereafter removed, shall stand in such court in all
respects as they stood in the county court, and like proceedings thereaf
ter be had therein and like process issued, as if the causes had been
originally commenced in the circuit court. The cost of such removal
shall be borne equally by both parties to the suit.
Sec. 3049. When judge of a county or corporation court fails, &c, to hold
same, what judge may do so ; when Governor to designate judge to do so ;
his pay and mileage. — If a judge of a county or corporation court be
unable or fail to attend a regular term of his court, or be prevented from
sitting during the whole term, or any part thereof, or if he be so situated
as to render it improper in his judgment for him to decide any cause or
preside at the trial thereof, and it be so entered of record, or if, from
death or any other cause, there be no judge of such county or corporation
court, the judge of any other county court may hold said county court
and the judge of any other corporation court may hold said corporation
court, either for the whole term or any part thereof. When a vacancy,
by reason of death or resignation, exists in the office of judge of a county
or corporation court, the clerk of such court shall certify the fact to the
Governor of the state, who is hereby authorized to designate a judge of
any other county court to hold the regular terms of the county court in
which such vacancy exists, and to designate a judge of any other corpo
ration court to hold the regular terms of the corporation court in which
such vacancy exists, until the vacancy be filled ; and for any service pro
vided for in this section, said judge shall receive the mileage prescribed
by law, and five dollars per day for the time he is actually engaged in
holding court, to be paid* out of the treasury of the county or corporation
in which said court is held : Provided however, that this section shall not
apply to the hustings court or to the chancery couit of the city of Rich
mond.
Corporation Courts.
Sec, 3050. Corporation courts ; their judges ; how elected.— For each city
of the state, there shall be a court called a corporation court, to be held
by a judge, with like qualifications and elected in the same manner as
judges of the county court.
Sec. 3051. What cities to have a city judge.— The following cities shall
each have one city judge : Fredericksburg, Lynchburg, Norfolk, Peters-
burg, Portsmouth, Staunton, Alexandria, Danville, Roanoke, Winchester,
01 ' '
and Manchester.
Sec. 3052. Statutes creating corporation courts, and defining their pow-
ers, 4c, continued in force. —All the statutes, in force on the day before
this Code takes effect, creating corporation or hustings courts of the fol
lowing cities, to-wit : Alexandria, Danville, Fredericksburg, Lynchburg,
Manchester, Norfolk, Petersburg, Portsmouth, Roanoke, Staunton, and
Winchester, and all statutes defining and regulating the powers and
jurisdiction of, or in any manner specially relating to, said courts or any
of them, and the act entitled " an act to establish a court for the county
of James City and the city of Williamsburg," approved July eleventh,
eighteen hundred and seventy, shall continue and have the same force
and effect as if the said statutes were herein expressly enacted.
Sec. 3053. Terms of corporation courts.—For every corporation, in
which the power of holding courts has been or shall be vested by law,
there shall be held monthly terms of the corporation court; but a judge
of any such court may, in his discretion, omit the holding of a term for
the month of July or for the month of August, as he may deem best.
Sec. 3054. Judges mav change commencement of terms; terras for trial
. . . .
of civil and criminal cases. —The judge of every such corporation court
may, from time to time, change the day for the commencement of the
terms thereof, or any of them. The clerk of such court, within thirty
days after such change, shall send a copy of the order making it, to the
clerk of the House of Delegates, and if he fail to do so, shall forfeit fifty
dollars. The judge of said court may also select the terms at which he
will try criminal cases, and he may designate four or more terms of such
court for the trial of civil cases in which juries are required, and the
same terms may be designated for the trial of both' civil and criminal
cases; and thereafter, until otherwise ordered, all cases cognizable in
such court in which juries are required, except criminal cases and cases
of forcible entry and unlawful detainer, shall be tried only at such terms
as are so designated.
Sec. 3055. Jurisdiction of corporation courts.— The several corporation
courts shall, within their respective limits, have the same jurisdiction as
the circuit court*, and the same jurisdiction over all orTences committed
within such limits as county courts have over like offences committed
within their limits. They shall also have jurisdiction in all other cases
(except as may have been otherwise specially provided) which were cog
nizable by the former hustings courts of the respective cities and towns,
under the laws as they existed on the twenty-sixth of January, eighteen
hundred and seventy ; and such other jurisdiction as may be conferred
upon them by law; but the provisions of this section shall not apply to
the courts of the city of Richmond.
CHAPTER CXLVIII.
OF THE CIRCUIT COURTS.
Sec..
3036. Circuit courts established for coun
ties and cities.
3057. Judicial circuits.
3058. Jurisdiction of circuit courts.
8059. Commencement and number of
their lerms.
3000. Special terms, when, how, and by
whom appointed.
3001. Adjournment thereof to a future
day
3002. What tried at a special term; who
may hold it.
Sec.
:ii)ii.l.
3064.
3065.
30G0.
3007.
Pay of Judge sitting in another cir
cuit.
Where judges to reside.
Power of judges to exchange cir
cuits.
Duration of lerms of circuit court
of Norfolk city; regulations for
recess of court, 4c.
Jurisdiction of circuit court of
Fredericksburg.
Sec. 3056. Circuit courts established for counties and cities.— For the city
oj. \yiniamsjjU1g an,i county of James City, for that part of the county
of Henrico which is without the corporate limits of the city of Rich
mond, and for every other county, and for each of the cities of Norfolk,
Portsmouth, Petersburg, Lynchburg, Fredericksburg, Alexandria, Dan
ville, and Roanoke, there shall be a circuit court, which shall be called
the circuit court of such county or city, or of such city and county, as the
case may be.
Sec. 3057. Judicial circuits.— The state shall be divided into seventeen
judicial circuits, as follows :
1. The counties of Norfolk, Princess Anne, Nanseinond, Isle of Wight,
Southampton, Surry, and the cities of Norfolk and Portsmouth shall con
stitute the first circuit.
2. The counties of Brunswick, Chesterfield, Dinwiddie, Greenesville,
Nottoway, Prince George, Sussex, and the city of Petersburg shall consti
tute the second circuit.
3. The counties of Amelia, Buckingham, Charlotte, Cumberland,
Lunenburg, Mecklenburg, Powhatan, and Prince Edward shall constitute
the third circuit.
4. The city of Danville and the counties of Franklin, Halifax, Henry,
Patrick, and Pittsylvania shall constitute the fourth circuit.
6. The counties of Amherst, Appomattox, Bedford, Campbell, Nelson,
and the city of Lynchburg shall constitute the fifth circuit.
6. The counties of Albemarle, Culpeper, Goochland, Fluvanna, Madi
son, Orange, and Greene shall constitute the sixth circuit.
7. The county of Henrico and the city of Richmond shall constitute
the seventh circuit.
8. The counties of Accomac, Northampton, York, Elizabeth City, War
wick, James City, New Kent, Charles City, and the city of Williamsburg
shall constitute the eighth circuit.
9. The counties of Essex, King William, King & Queen, Northumber
land, Lancaster, Gloucester, Mathews, and Middlesex shall constitute the
ninth circuit.
10. The counties of Caroline, Hanover, King George, Louisa, Rich
mond, Spotsylvania, Stafford, Westmoreland, and the city of Fredericks
burg shall constitute the tenth circuit.
11. The counties of Alexandria, Fairfax, Fauquier, Loudoun, Prince
William, Rappahannock, and the city of Alexandria shall constitute the
eleventh circuit.
12. The counties of Clarke, Warren, Frederick, Shenandoah, and Page '
shall constitute the twelfth circuit.
13. The counties of Augusta, Rockbridge, Rockingham, Bath, High
land, and Alleghany shall constitute the thirteenth circuit.
14. The counties of Botetourt, Roanoke, Craig, Montgomery, Floyd,
and the city of Roanoke shall constitute the fourteenth circuit.
15. The counties of Wythe, Pulaski, Giles, Carroll, Bland, and Taze
well shall constitute the fifteenth circuit.
16. The counties of Washington, Smyth, Grayson, and Russell shall
constitute the sixteenth circuit.
17. The counties of Scott, Lee, Wise, Dickenson, and Buchanan shall
constitute the seventeenth circuit.
Sec. 3058. Jurisdiction of circuit courts.—The circuit courts shall have
jurisdiction of proceedings by quo warranto or information in the nature
of quo warranto, and to issue writs of mandamus, prohibition, and certio
rari to the county courts and judges thereof and to other inferior tribu
nals, and to issue the writ of mandamus in all other cases in which it
may be necessary to prevent a failure of justice and in which a mandamus
may issue according to the principles of the common law. They shall
have original and general jurisdiction of all cases in chancery and civil
cases at law, except cases at law to recover personal property or money,
not of greater value or amount than twenty dollars, exclusive of interest,
and except such cases as are specially assigned to some other tribunal.
They shall have appellate jurisdiction in all cases, civil and criminal,
where an appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas may, as provided by law, be
taken to or allowed by the said courts or the judges thereof, from or to
the judgment or proceedings of any inferior tribunal. They shall also
have jurisdiction of all other matters, civil or criminal, made cognizable
therein by law ; ;ind where a motion to recover money is allowed in the
said courts, otherwise than under section thirty-two hundred and eleven,
they may hear and determine the same, although it be to recover less
than twenty dollars.
Sec. 3059. Commencement and number of their terms.—The days for the
commencement of the regular terms of each circuit court and the num
ber of such terms in every year, shall be according to the laws in force
on the day before this Code takes effect.
Sec. 3060. Special terms, when, how, and by whom appointed.— If any
term cf a cjrcuit court is to end or has ended without the dispatch of all
its business, or if there be a failure to hold any term, or it is expedient,
in the opinion of the judge of such court, to hold a special term for the
trial of any cause pending in such court, or of issues made up in any
cause by consent of parties, or if the situation of a prisoner confined in
jail for trial in a circuit court makes it proper that his case should be
disposed of before the, next regular term thereof, the judge of such circuit
court, or, if he has died, the judge of any other circuit court, may, by an
order entered in such court, or by a warrant directed to the clerk, appoint
a special term thereof and prescribe in such order or warrant whether
any venire is to be summoned to attend the said term. The clerk shall
inform the attorney for the commonwealth and the sheriff or sergeant of
such appointment, post a copy of the warrant or order at the front door
of the courthouse, and issue all proper process to such special term ; and
the sheriff or sergeant shall execute the process.
Sec. 3061. Adjournment thereof to a future day.— Whenever any judge
of a circuit court shall have appointed a special term of any circuit court,
by adjournment or warrant in the manner directed by the preceding section, and he shall afterward ascertain that he cannot hold the said
special term on the day appointed for it, he may, by warrant under his
hand, directed to the clerk of the court, adjourn it to such other day as
he may deem proper. Such warrant shall be transmitted by the judge
to the clerk, who shall immediately enter the said warrant in the order
book of the court, and as to the said special term thereafter to be held
under the said continuance, proceed in all other respects in the manner
directed by the section aforesaid.
Sec. 3062. What tried at a special term; who may hold it.— At any such
special term, any civil cause may be tried which could lawfully have
been, but was not, tried at the last preceding term that was or should
have been held ; and any motion cognizable by such court may be heard
and determined, whether it was pending at the preceding term or not;
and any criminal case may be tried at such special term as if it were a
regular term, although at the preceding regular term, the same may not
have been pending in said court or may have been continued ; and any
cause or matter of controversy at law or in chancery, then ready for
hearing, or which may be made ready by consent of parties, may, with
the consent of the parties to such cause or controversy, be heard and
determined, although it could not lawfully have been heard at the pre
ceding term that was or should have been held. Every such special term
may be held by the judge of the circuit, or, if he be dead or absent, by
any other circuit judge who may be present ; and it may be held, part
of its session by one judge and part of it by another; and such special
terms may be adjourned from time to time, during the intervals between
the regular terms, as to the judge may seem necessary for the dispatch of
the business of the court.
Sec. 3063. Pay of judge sitting in another circuit.— Any judge of onecircuit,
sitting in another, under either of the three preceding sections, shall,
in addition to his annual salary, receive ten dollars per day for each day
of such session, and mileage for travel.
Sec. 3064. Where judges to reside.— Each circuit judge, during his continuance
in office, shall reside in the circuit of which he is judge.
Sec. 3065. Their power to exchange circuits.—Any two circuit judges
may at any time make an exchange with each other of their respective
circuits for a period not longer than one year, by an agreement recorded in
the court in which each of them shall first sit under such change; and
without a formal exchange of circuits, if any judge of a circuit court fail
to attend a regular term of his court, or be prevented from sitting during
the whole term, or be so situated in respect to any cause pending in said
court as in his opinion to make it improper for him to try it, any other
circuit judge may hold said court either for the whole term or any part
thereof.
Sec. 3066. Duration of terms of circuit court of Norfolk city ; regulations
for recess of court, &c. —The circuit court of the city of Norfolk may an
nually, on or before the twenty-eighth day of November, adjourn over and
take a recess thenceforth until the tenth day of January following. It shall
resume its session on the last named day, and continue to hold the same
until the tenth day of February next ensuing and no longer. In any
cause upon the docket of said court standing upon an office judgment at
the time of such adjournment, execution may issue, as if the court had
adjourned to a regular term. If, from any cause, the court does not resume
its session on the said tenth day of January, it may nevertheless be
opened and held in accordance with the provisions of section thirtyone
hundred and t wenty-two. Nothing in this section shall operate as a
disconlinuance of, or in any way invalidate, any process issued, recogni
zance taken, or notice given, returnable to the fall term, but every such
process, recognizance, or notice, shall be held as valid as if the said court
had been regularly adjourned from day to day, during the said recess. No
allowance shall be made to any officer of the court for attending any such
adjourned session. Before the court resumes its session on the tenth day
of January, as aforesaid, the clerk shall place upon the dockets of said
court all such causes as might properly be placed thereon, if the session
thus resumed had been a regular term commencing on the said tenth day
of January.
Sec. 3067. Jurisdiction of circuit court of Fredericksburg.—The circuit
court of the city of Fredericksburg shall have the same jurisdiction one
mile beyond the corporate limits of the said city that it has within the
said limits.
Sec. 3068. Courts of the city of Richmond ; their judges ; how elected. —
There shall be for the city of Richmond a circuit court, to be held by the
judge of the seventh circuit ; a hustings court, to be held by the city judge
of said city, with like qualifications, and elected in the same manner, as
judges of the circuit courts ; and a court of probate and record, to be called
the chancery court of the city of Richmond, to be held by a judge with
like qualifications, and elected in the same manner, and for the same
term, as the judge of the hustings court.
The Circuit Court.
Sec. 3069. Circuit court, its jurisdiction.— The said circuit court shall,
within the corporate limits of the city of Richmond, have original juris
diction of all such causes, motions, matters, and things, whether now
pending or hereafter brought therein, as are cognizable by law in other
circuit courts of the commonwealth, and the jurisdiction whereof is not
vested exclusively in the said chancery court or the said hustings court.
The said circuit court, and judge thereof, respectively, shall also have juris
diction of all such suits, motions, prosecutions, and matters and things as
are specially cognizable by the said court or judge under chapters thirty,
thirty-one, thirty-two, one hundred and fifty-seven, and two hundred and
four, and section thirty-four hundred and thirty-two, or any other sec
tion of this Code.
The Chancery Court,
Sec. 3070. Chancery court, its jurisdiction.—The said chancery court,
shall, within the corporate limits of the city of Richmond, exercise exclu
sive jurisdiction concerning the probate and recordation of wills, the
appointment, qualification, and removal of fiduciaries, and the settlement
of their accounts ; the docketing of judgments; and the recordation, in
the mode prescribed by law, of deeds and other papers authorized or
required by law to be recorded. It shall also have, within the corporate
limits of the city of Richmond, exclusive jurisdiction of all suits and pro-
ceedings in chancery cognizable by law in the circuit courts of the com
monwealth, except such as are specially cognizable in the circuit court of
the city of Richmond ; and any duty devolved, or power or jurisdiction
conferred, or which may hereafter be devolved or conferred, by law, on
the circuit courts of the commonwealth or the judges thereof respectively,
shall, unless otherwise expressly provided, be deemed to be also devolved
or conferred on the said chancery court of the city of Richmond or the judge
thereof, respectively, except as to matters of common law and criminal
jurisdiction.
Sec. 8071. Its terms. —The said chancery court shall hold four terms in
each year, commencing on the first Monday in January, April, June, and
October, and the terms shall continue as long as the business in the court
shall require : but the court shall be always open as a court of probate,
and the clerk thereorshall at all times exercise such powers and perform
such duties as to docketing judgments and recording deeds and other
papers as are conferred and imposed by law upon clerks of other courts
in similar matters.
Tbe Hastings Court.
Sec. 3072. Hastings court, its jurisdiction.—The said hustings court shall
have exclusive original jurisdiction of all presentments, indictments, and
informations for offences committed within the corporate limits of the
city of Richmond (except prosecutions against convicts in the peniten
tiary), and concurrent jurisdiction, with the other courts having jurisdic
tion thereof, of all presentments, indictments, and informations for
offences committed within the space of one mile on the north side of the
James river without and around the said city and every part thereof,
including so much of said city to low water mark on the shore of the
county of Chesterfield as shall be between two lines drawn due south
from the eastern and western terminations of the one mile aforesaid ; and
also concurrent jurisdiction, with the circuit court of the city of Rich
mond, of actions of forcible or unlawful entry and detainer. The said
hustings court shall also have exclusive jurisdiction of all appeals,
allowed by any state law or ordinance of the said city, from the judg
ments of the police justice's court ; of all causes removable from said
police justice's court ; of all proceedings for the condemnation, for public
use, of any land or property within the corporate limits of the said city ;
of all motions to correct erroneous assessments on real estate within the
said limits; and of all other causes and matters cognizable by law in the
said hustings court the day before this Code takes effect.
Sec. 3073. Its terms; when to begin; how long continue; what may be
done at any term. —There shall be a term of the said hustings court held
for each month in the year, except the month of August. The terms for
the months of January, February, March, April, May, June, July, Octo
ber, November, and December, shall begin on the first Monday in each
of these months, and the term for the month of September shall begin
on the twentieth day of that month. Each term shall continue as long
as the business of the court may require. Any cause or matter cogniza
ble by the said court may be heard and disposed of at any term thereof;
except that th^e causes removed from the police justice's court shall be
heard and disposed of only at the January, April, July, and October
terms of the said hustings court.
Sec. 3074. Clerk of hustings court ; special duties of.—The clerk of the
said hustings court shall have the custody of all public property, records,
books, and papers formerly appertaining and belonging to the hustings
court of magistrates of the said city, and the hustings court formerly
held by the judge thereof, except such property, records, books, and
papers as have been by law transferred to the circuit and chancery courts
of the said city ; and the said clerk shall have all the powers and per
form all the duties which heretofore devolved on the clerk of the said
hustings court formerly held in the said city, except such powers and
duties as have been by law transferred to the clerks of the circuit and
chancery courts of the said city.
Sec. 3075. Who to prosecute in said court.— The commonwealth's attor
ney for the circuit court of the city of Richmond shall appear and prose
cute for the commonwealth in all criminal cases in the said hustings
court.
Sec. 3070. Who to execute its process, &c—The sergeant of the city of
Richmond shall be the officer to attend on the said hustings court and
execute its process and orders.
Sec. 3077. Who to summons its jurors and witnesses. —The said sergeant
shall summon a grand jury, selected in the mode prescribed by law, to
attend the first day of each term of the said hustings court, and also on
any other day that the said court, or the judge thereof, shall direct, and
the said grand jury shall be charged by the judge. The said sergeant
shall also summon all other jurors and witnesses required in the said
court.
Sec. 3078. Its grand and petit jurors.—The provisions of law concern
ing grand and petit juries applicable to other courts, shall, so far as they
are not inconsistent with this chapter, apply to the grand and petit
juries in the said hustings court.
General Provisions.
Sec. 3079. Who may hold said courts during absence, &c, of judge.—
During the absence of the judge of the said circuit, chancery, or hust
ings court of the said city, or the inability of either from any cause to
hold a term of his court , or to sit during the whole term, or to sit in any
particular case, or to discharge any official duty required by law, the said
term or any part thereof may be held, or the said case be heard or tried
and decided, or the said duty be discharged, if it be the judge of the
said circuit court, by any circuit judge or the judge of the said chancery
court ; if it be the judge of the said chancery court, by any circuit judge
or the judge of the said hustings court ; and if it be the judge of the
said hustings court, by any circuit or corporation judge, or the judge of
the said chancery court : Provided however, that no extra compensation
shall be allowed therefor, when any one of the judges of the courts of
the city of Richmond shall sit or discharge duties for the other.
Sec. 3080. Jurisdiction of chancery and hustings courts of injunctions,
habeas corpus, mandamus, &c. —The said chancery court and the said hus
tings court, an'd the judges thereoi respectively, shall have the same
power as a circuit court or circuit judge to admit to bail and award injunc
tions, and the same jurisdiction of proceedings by writ oihabeas corpu^
writ of quo warranto or information in the nature of a wrrV of quo war
ranto, writ of mandamus, and writ of prohibition.
Sec. 3081. Appeals. &c. from chancery and hustings courts.— Appeals,
writs of- error and mpers'dem, from and to judgments, decrees, and orders
of the said chancery court and the said hustings court, and the judges
thereof respectively, shall l>e taken and allowed as from and to judg
ments, decrees, and orders of a circuit court or circuit judge.
Sec. 3082. Clerks of said courts; how elected, &c. ; their fees; special
compensation of clerk of hustings court.—There shall he a clerk of the
said chancery court and a clerk of the said hustings court, each of whom
shall be appointed or elected in the mode prescribed by law for the
appointment or election of clerks of circuit courts, and receive the same
fees and emoluments that are allowed by law to clerks of circuit courts.
The clerk of the said hustings court shall also receive out of the treasury
of the city of Richmond, for his services to the public of the said city,
such sum as the judge of the said court may allow, not exceeding the
sum of eighteen hundred dollars in one year, and he shall be allowed
the sum of one thousand dollars a year, for public services rendered the
commonwealth, payable in monthly instalments from the public treasury,
out of any money not otherwise appropriated.
Sec. 3083. Officer of circuit and chancery courts.— The sheriff of the
city of Richmond shall be the otficer of the circuit court and chancery
court of the said city.
CHAPTER CL.
OF THE COURT OF APPEALS, AND REPORTS OF ITS DECISIONS.
Sec.
3084. How court constituted ; president,
quorum: one judge to reside at
seat of government.
3085. When president absent, who pre
sides.
3086. Its jurisdiction of writs ot man
damus and prohibition.
3087. Also, of cases of habeas corpus, ap
peals, writs of error, and 'super-
selcas.
3088. Times and places of session.
308!). Business to be done at Richmond.
309<). At Wythevllle.
3091. AtStauntcn.
3092. How appoint and take bonds of its
clerks: whore exercise its crimi
nal jurisdiction.
3093 Transfer of causes from one place
to another ; may be determined
without being transferred ; where
decision entered, and how certi
fied ; its effect.
3094. Prohibition and mandamus, where
issued and tried.
Sec.
3095, Special court ot appeals, when and
how formed, and where held.
S09B. Its clerk.
3097. Its decisions, how certified and ex
ecuted.
3098. Pay of judges.
3O09. Tipstaff and crier; their duties and
pay.
3100. Law library; how controlled and
used ; librarian.
3101. Reporter of court of appeals; his
m appointment and salary.
3102. His duties
3103. Correction of proof rfheets.
3t04. Court may change reporter.
3105. Clerk to deliver opinions to him.
3106. Special sessions of the court.
3107. May be also held when requested
by Governor, or deemed proper
bv its president.
3108. What may be tried at a special ses
sion effect of decisions.
Sec. 3084. How court constituted ; president; quorum; one judge to reside
at seat of government. —The supreme court of appeals shall consist of five
judges, any three of whom may hold a court. The said judges shall
appoint one of their number president of the court, and also select by
lot or otherwise one of their number, who shall reside at the seat of
government.
Sec. 3085. When president absent, who presides.— In the absence of the
president, tHe eldest judge in commission present shall be the presiding
judge ; but if no one of the judges present be older in commission than
the rest, then the judges present shall appoint any one of their number
to preside.
Sec. 3086. Jurisdiction of writs of mandamus and prohibition.— The said
supreme court, besides having jurisdiction of all such matters tas are now
pending therein, shall have jurisdiction to issue writs of mandamus and
prohibition to the circuit and corporation courts, and to the hustings
court and the chancery court of the city of Richmond, and in all other
cases in which it may be necessary to prevent a failure of justice, in
which a mandamus may issue according to the principles of the common
law: Providnl, that no writ of mandamus, prohibition, or any other sum
mary process whatever, shall issue in any case of the collection of reve
nue, or attempt to collect the same, or to compel the collecting officers to
receive anything in payment of taxes except gold or silver coin, United
States treasury notes, or national bank notes, or in any case arising out
of the collection of revenue in which the applicant for the writ or process
has any other remedy adequate for the protection and enforcement of his
individual right, claim, and demand, if just.
Sec. 3087. Also, of cases of habeas corpus, appeals, writs of error, and
supersedeas. —The said court shall also have jurisdiction in cases of habeas
corpus, and of such appeals, writs of error, and supersedeas, as may be
legally docketed in or transferred to the said court.
Sec. 3088. Times and places of session.— The said court shall hold a ses
sion annually, at Wytheville, in the county of Wythe, and at Staunton,
in the county of Augusta, to commence at such time as the court may,
from time to time, direct, and to continue at least sixty days, if the busi
ness be not sooner dispatched ; and another in the city of Richmond, to
commence at such time, and to be divided into such terms, as the court
has directed, or may, from time to time direct, and to continue at least
one hundred and sixty days, unless the business be sooner dispatched.
Sec. 3089. Business to bi done at Richmond.—The said court, at its ses
sion in Richmond, shall hear and determine all appeals, writs of error,
or supersedeas, pending therein, or which may be brought to the court of
appeals, from or to decrees, judgments, sentences, or orders, of any court
held on the eastern side of the Blue Ridge, except the counties of Patrick,
Albemarle, Amherst, Nelson, Franklin, and Bedford.
Sec. 3090. At Wytheville.— The court, at its session at Wytheville, in
the county of Wythe, shall hear and determine all appeals, writs of
error, or supersedeas, which may be brought to the court of appeals, from
or to decrees, judgments, sentences, or orders of courts, from the follow
ing counties: Craig, Roanoke, Montgomery, Floyd, Patrick, Carroll,
Pulaski, Giles, Bland, Wythe, Grayson, Smyth, Tazewell, Washington,
Russell, Buchanan, Wise, Scott, Lee, Franklin, and Bedford.
Sec. 3091. At Staunton. —The court, at its session at Staunton, in the
county of Augusta, shall hear and determine all appeals, writs of error, or
supersedeas, which may be brought to the court of appeals, from or to
decrees, judgments, sentences, or orders of court, from the residue of the
counties west of the Blue Ridge, and also from the counties of Albemarle,
Amherst, and Nelson.
Sec. 3092. How appoint and take bonds of its clerks ; where exercise its
criminal jurisdiction. —The court, at one place of session, may, if it see
fit, appoint and take bond from the clerks of the courtst the other
places, and the appellate jurisdiction of said court in any criminal case.
may be exercised at any place of session, no matter where the court may
have been held which rendered the judgment in such case.
Sec. 3093. Transfer of causes from one place to another ; may be determined
without being transferred; where decision entered and how certified;
its effect. —By consent of the parties, or their counsel, or for reasons
appearing to the court, any case pending in said court at one place of ses
sion, may be transferred to another place of session, there to be heard
and determined, or, if already heard, there to be determined, as if it had
been originally docketed there. When a case has been heard at one
place of session, it may, without being transferred, be determined at
another ; and the judgment, decree, or order therein shall be entered on
the order book at the place where it is made, and certified to the clerk at
the place where the case is pending, who shall enter the same on bis order
book. Every such judgment, decree, or order shall have the same effect
as if entered in court at the place where the case is pending.
Sec. 3094. Prohibition and mandamus, where issued and tried.— Writs of
prohibition or maudamux, from the court of appeals to any court, shall
issue and be tried at the place of session of said court of appeals, at
which writs of error to such court are to be tried.
Sec. 3095. Special court of appeals, when and how formed, and where
held. —If at any time there shall be on the docket of the supreme court
of appeals a case in which a majority of the judges of said court are so
situated as to make it improper for them to sit on the hearing thereof,
that fact shall be entered of record. The said court may thereupon have
summoned, from among the judges of the circuit courts, as many as, with
the judges of the supreme court of appeals not so situated, will make the
number five, who shall, together, form and hold a special court of appeals,
to hear and determine such case, at such time as a majority of them shall
Sec fit ; and it shall be held at Richmond, Wytheville, or Staunton, as the
case may be.
Sec. 3096. Its clerk.— The clerk of the supreme court of appeals, at the
place at which a special court of appeals is held, shall, in person or by
deputy, attend such special court, with the records and papers in the case
which it is to hear and determine, and act as its clerk.
Sec. 3097. Its decisions, how certified and executed. —The decisions of
such special court shall be certified and carried into execution as if made
by the supreme court of appeals.
Sec. 3098. Pay of judges. —Each circuit judge sitting on said special
court shall have ten dollars per day for every day's attendance on such
court.
Sec. 3099. Tipstaff and crier; their duties and pay.— The supreme court
of appeals, at each place of session, and such special court, may appoint a
tipstaff and_ a crier, who shall perform such duties as the court may
require, and shall receive out of the treasury such reasonable compensa
tion as the court may allow, and be removable at its pleasure.
Sec. 3100. Law library; how controlled and used ; librarian.— The law
books belonging to the state library, or such of them as the supreme
court of appeals may at any time direct, shall be put up in the court room
or conference room, and, together with the books already in such room,
shall form a library for the use of thp court, and under its control, and
shall be subject to such privileges to other persons as may be allowed by
law, or by the rules established by the court. The court shall appoint
one of its officers to perform the duties of librarian.
Sec. 3101. Reporter of court of appeals; his appointment and salary.
The supreme court of appeals shall have authority to contract with some
suitable person to report such of the decisions of said court as the judges
thereof shall direct, at a rate of compensation not exceeding fifteen hun
dred dollars a year, payable in monthly instalments.
^eC' "'S duties.—The sai(^ reporter shall prepare, and deliver
from time to time, to such printer as the Superintendent of Public Print
ing may direct, manuscript reports of such of the decisions made by the
supreme court of appeals, as the judges of said court shall direct, with an
abstract of the points decided in each case, and an index to the contents
of the volume.
Sec. 3103. Correction of proof-sheets. —He shall examine and correct the
proof-sheets thereof as they shall be furnished him by the printer.
Sec. 3104. Court may change reporter.—The said court of appeals may
at any time put an end to the said contract, and contract with another
person for performing the service, upon the same terms.
Sec. 3105. Clerks to deliver opinions to him.—In those cases which the
reporter is directed to report, copies of the reasons, stated in writing,
under section four of the sixth article of the constitution, shall be deliv
ered by the clerks of the court to the reporter.
Sec. 3106. Special sessions of the court.—The supreme court of appeals,
by an order entered of record, may direct a special session to be held at
either of the places designated by law for holding a regular session, and
at such time as it may deem proper.
Sec. 3107. May lie also held when requested by Governor, or deemed
proper by its president. —A special session may also be held, at either of
the places referred to in the preceding section, by order of the president
in vacation, on the written request of the Governor to him, or whenever
in the president's opinion it is proper. The time and place of holding
the special session shall be designated in the order, which shall be
directed to the clerk at such place, who shall enter the same in his record
book and give notice thereof to each judge of the court, except the
president.
Sec. 3108. What may be tried at special session ; effect of decisions. —At
any such special session, the court, by consent of parties or their counsel,
may hear and determine any cause then ready for a hearing, or, without
such consent, upon twenty days' previous notice in writing, given by a
party desiring a hearing to the adverse party, of his intention to insist
on the same. The court, at such special session, shall hear any cause
pending at either place of session which, in its opinion, the public inter
ests require to be heard and determined. Any judgment, decree, or
order entered or made at such special session shall have the- same effect
and may be reviewed and reheard in like manner and subject to the
same rules as a judgment, decree, or order entered or made at a regular
session.
Sec. 3109. Seals for courts.—For any court without a seal, the Governor
shall provide one, which shall be deposited with the clerk thereof.
Sec. 3110. Jurisdiction of courts of counties over water courses.—Where
any river, water course, or bay lies between any counties in this state,
the courts for the counties on each side, respectively, shall have concur
rent jurisdiction over so much thereof as is opposite to said counties.
And the courts for counties lying on the waters bounding the state shall
have jurisdiction, respectively, over such waters opposite said counties so
far as the jurisdiction of this state extends.
Sec. 3111. Courts may adjourn from day to day ; power of judge of circuit
court of Richmond and Henrico to adjourn said courts. —Any court may at
any term, whether regular or special, adjourn from day to day until the
business before it is dispatched, or until the end of its term. The judge
of the circuit courts for the city of Richmond and county of Henrico,
may adjourn the said courts during the terms thereof, for a period not
exceeding thirty days.*
Sec. 3112. Court of appeals may prescribe forms of writs and regulate
practice of courts. —The supreme court of appeals may, from time to
time, prescribe the forms of writs and make general regulations for the
practice of all the courts; and may prepare a system ot rules of practice,
and a system of pleadings, and the forms of process, to be used in all the
courts of this state ; and when the same are prepared, the court shall
make report thereof to the General Assembly, in order to further legisla
tion in the premises. *
Sec. 3113. In election by court, votes to be viva voce and recorded.— In
every appointment or election by a court to fill any office or post, the
votes shall be given viva voce in open court, and the vote of each judge
voting thereon shall be recorded in the order or minute book.
Sec. 3114. How proceedings of courts are drawn np, read, and signed.—The
proceedings of every court shall be entered in a book, and read in open
court by the clerk thereof. The proceedings of each day shall be drawn
up at large, and read during that term, except those of the last day of a
term, which shall be drawn up and read the same day. After being cor
rected, where it is necessary, the record shall be signed by the presiding
judge.
Sec. 3115. Who attends a court as its officer.—The court of appeals shall
not be attended by any sheriff; and a circuit or other court (except the
circuit and chancery courts of the city of Richmond), held only for a
corporation, shall be attended by the sergeant of such corporation, who
shall act as its officer. In all other cases, the sheriff of the county in
which any court is held, shall attend it, and act as its officer.
Sec. 3116. Places of holding courts. —Every circuit, county, or corpora
tion court, for any county or corporation, shall be held at the courthouse
of such county or corporation, except where some other place is pre
scribed by law, or lawfully appointed.
Sec. 3117. When and how changed.— Whenever in the opinion of a cir
cuit, county, or corporation court, or the judge thereof, the courthouse or
other place wherein it is required to hold its session, cannot or should
not, from any cause, be occupied by it, or if the same shall be destroyed,
the court may hold its session at such place as may be appointed by its
order, or by the warrant of the judge thereof in vacation, directed to its
clerk, until the courthouse or its lawful place of session, can or should
be thereafter occupied, or until another shall be built and fitted for its
occupation, or until some other place be appointed by the court.
Sec. 3118. How order or warrant making, change posted.— A copy of
every order of court, or warrant of a judge under the preceding section,
shall, if practicable, be posted by the clerk of the court at the door of
his office, and at the courthouse door, and also at the place so appointed.
Sec. 3119. When and how place of session of court of appeals changed,
or time of holding the court postponed.— Whenever, by reason of the
destruction of any building in which the court of appeals or a special
court of appeals is appointed to be held, or by reason of the place of ses
sion being in possession of a public enemy, or infected with contagious
disease, it shall seem to the Governor necessary, he shall, by proclama
tion, appoint a place at which such court shall be held, so long as such
reason may continue, and when the circumstances require it, may post
pone the time for holding the court. A copy of such proclamation shall
be sent to the clerk and to each of the judges of such court, and pub
lished in some newspaper at the seat of government, and near the regu
lar place of session of such court.
Sec. 3120. Court must be held in its county or corporation.— No such
place of session, for a circuit, county, or corporation court, shall be with
out the limits of the county or corporation of which it is the court. And
when such place is appointed because of the destruction of the building
in which the court of appeals or special court of appeals was held, the
new place of session shall be within the same city or town with the old.
Sec. 3121. Acts of courts heretofore held at improper places confirmed. —
Where any court has at any time heretofore been held at a place not
authorized by law, in consequence of the destruction of the courthouse,
or other unavoidable cause, the acts and proceedings of such court shall
be as valid as if the court had been held at the proper place.
Sec. 3122. Provision for opening a court, or for its sitting, where it fails
to meet on day appointed or to which it is adjourned.—Though a court be
not held on the lirst day of a term, it may nevertheless be opened on any
subsequent day, if, in the case of a circuit, county, or corporation court,
the same be done before four o'clock in the afternoon of the third day.
After a court is opened, it shall, during the term, adjourn from day to
day and not otherwise, and if it fail to sit on any day to which it is
adjourned, it may nevertheless sit on any subsequent day of the term :
Provided, in the case of a circuit, county, or corporation court, there be
not more than three consecutive days of such failure; but a circuit court,
after having been in session for fifteen days, may take a recess for a
period not exceeding twenty days.
Sec. 3123. Provision to prevent cases from being discontinued, when
place or day changed, or court fails to sit.— When the place for holding
any court or the day for commencing any term is changed, or when a
court fails to sit on any day appointed for it or to which it may have
adjourned, there shall be no discontinuance, but every notice, recogni
zance, or process given, taken, or returnable to the day on which the
failure occurred, or to any day between that day and the next that the
court may sit, or to the day and place as it was before such change, and
all matters ready for the court to act upon if it had been held on any
such day, shall be in the same condition and have the same effect as if
given, taken, or returnable, or continued to the substituted term or place,
or to the next day of the same term that the court may sit, or to the next
court in course, as the case may be.
Sec. 3124. Matters not determined to stand continued.— All causes upon
the docket of any court, and all other matters ready for its decision,
which shall not have been determined before the end of a term, whether
regular or special, shall, without any order of continuance, stand contin
ued to the next term.
Sec. 3125. Nothing in Code to operate discontinuance of any pending case.
Of a notice, recognizance, or process given, taken, or issued before Code in
force. Where books, records, and papers in custody of clerks, to remain.—
Although a notice, recognizance, or process shall have been given, taken,
or issued before the day prescribed for the commencement of this Code,
it may, nevertheless, be given, taken, or returnable to a day after such
commencement, or to a court established by this Code or the clerk's office
of such court, in like manner a< if this Code had commenced before the
same was given, taken, or issued. And nothing in this Code shall operate
to discontinue any cause or matter, civil or criminal, which shall be
depending and undetermined in any court on the day before this Code
takes effect; but every such cause and matter shall be proceeded in, tried
and determined in such court, or in the court which succeeds to or has
its jurisdiction. The papers and records of such causes and matters, and
all books, records, and papers whatever which on the said day may be in
the custody of any clerk of a court shall remain in custody of the clerk
of the same, or of such court as succeeds to or has its jurisdiction.
Sec. 3126. If term of court is to end daring trial of case, &c, trial may
go on until concluded ; if case be in corporation court, jndge may postpone
commencement of next term.—If the term of a court is to end pending the
trial therein of any case, civil or criminal, it shall nevertheless be lawful
for such court to continue the trial until the same is concluded and the
case disposed of; and if such case be in a corporation or hustings court,
the judge thereof shall have the power, by an order entered in court, to
postpone the commencement of the next term of the said court to some
day designated by him.
Sec. 3127. When term of a court not to end on death of its judge.—The
death of a judge of any court during a term thereof being held by another,
shall not put an end to the term, but it shall continue, notwithstanding
such death, until ended in due course.
Sec. 3128. Execution of judgments and decrees of courts no longer exist
ing. — Every judgment, decree, or order entered in a court which shall
have ceased to exist, shall be executed by the court in custody of whose
clerk the record of such judgment, decree, or order may be. And to such
court shall be certified every judgment, decree, or order of the court of
appeals touching any judgment, decree, or order so entered, and the case
shall be proceeded in as if such court had rendered the same.
Sec. 3129. Judges not permitted to practise law ; exceptions.— No one
holding the office of judge in this state shall practice law therein during his
continuance in office ; except that it shall be lawful for a judge of a corpora
tion or hustings court, whose salary does not exceed one thousand dollars,
and a judge of a county court (if a licensed lawyer), to appear as attorney
at law in any case not pending in their respective courts, or which cannot
be carried into the same or has not been taken therefrom by appeal or
otherwise.
Sec. 3130. What judges may not hold any other office.—No person wrhile
holding the office of judge of a county or corporation or hustings court
shall hold any other office elective by the pe'ople.
Sec. 3131. When lawyers may try cases; how their judgments. Sr..
entered; their powers during trial.— When a judge holding a circuit, cor
poration, or county court is so situated as to render it improper, in his
judgment, for him to decide or preside at the trial of any civil cause pend
ing therein, the parties to such cause, plaintiff and defendant, may, with
the consent of such judge, entered of record in his court, select a member
of the bar practicing therein, who shall proceed to try such cause as the
judge would were he sitting ; and the judgment or decree rendered in
said cause shall be entered on the record of said court by its judge as the
judgment thereof ; and the person so selected to try or preside at the trial
of said cause, shall have power to enforce order and compel obedience
during the trial of such cause by him, as the judge of said court would
have were he sitting.
Sec- 3132. Removal of judge from circuit, county, &c, vacates his office.
The removal of any judge from the circuit, district, county, or jurisdiction
of the corporation for which he was elected, shall vacate his office.
Sec. 3133. Time within which a judge may qualify ; failure to do so
vacates office. —Any judge of this commonwealth, may qualify at any
time after receiving his commission, and before the expiration of thirty
days after the commencement of his terra of office; but if he fail to
receive his commission until after the commencement of his term of
office, he may qualify within thirty days from the date of receiving the
same. A failure on the part of any judge to qualify as above provided,
shall vacate his office.
Sec. 3134. Courts to have land books bound.—It shall be the duty of the
. , , . .
several county and corporation courts to cause to be bound, 111 volumes
of convenient size, all books in their respective clerk's offices, not now
bound, showing the assessments of lands since the year eighteen hun
dred and fifty, and to cause to be bound in Hke volumes such books to be
hereafter filed in their said clerk's offices at intervals of not more than
five years.
Sec. 3135. Books, 4c, in clerk's offices, and offices of county surveyors,
may be rebound or transcribed; the credit to be given to transcripts.— The
circuit, county, or corporation court of any county or corporation, and
the chancery court of the city of Richmond, shall cause any of the books
or records in their respective clerk's offices, which may be in need
thereof, to be rebound or transcribed ; and the court of any county may
also order any of the books or records in the office of the surveyor of
such county to be rebound or transcribed. The same faith and credit
shall be given to such transcript as the book or record transcribed would
have been entitled to.
Sec. 3136. Books may be taken from clerk's office to be rebound.—The
court directing any book or books to be bound or rebound as aforesaid,
may allow the same to be taken from the clerk's office in which such
book or books may be on file, but shall take all necessary and proper
precautions, by requiring bonds or otherwise, to insure the preservation
and return and to prevent the mutilation thereof.
Sec. 3137. How costs thereof certified and paid.—The cost incurred shall
be certified by such court to the board of supervisors of the county or to
the council of the city in whose clerk's office the books or records so
bound, rebound, or transcribed are on file, to be paid as a charge on such
county or corporation. •
Sec. 3138. How name of a person may be changed.—Any person desiring
to change his own name, or that of his child or ward, may apply therefor
to the circuit court of the county, or the circuit or corporation court of
the corporation, in which he resides ; or if he be a citizen of the state,
without a fixed residence in any one county or corporation, his applica
tion may be to the circuit court of the city of Richmond ; or if the parent
or guardian resides in •another state, then to the circuit court of the
county, or the circuit or corporation court of the corporation, in which
the child or ward resides. In the case of a minor who has no parent or
guardian, the application may be made by his next friend. On any such
application the court, in its discretion, may order a change of the name,
and thenceforth the new name shall be in the place of the former.
Sec. 3139. Who liable to serve as jurors.—All male citizens, twenty-one
years of age, and not over sixty, who are entitled to vote and hold office,
under the constitution and laws of this state, shall be liable to serve as
jurors, except as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 3140. Who are exempt.—The Governor and Lieutenant-Governor
of the State, practising attorneys, licensed practising physicians, regis
tered pharmacists, officers of any court, all telegraph operators actually
employed as such, all pilots licensed under the laws of the United States
or of this state, members of the fire department of a city or town, and
the officers and members of any fire company therein, and all officers
and persons who have heretofore or may hereafter serve as members of
any such fire department or company for five years; the Vice-president
of the United States ; the members of both houses of Congress, and their
respective officers ; all customhouse officers with their clerks; all post
masters, postoffieers, post-riders, and stage drivers, and all other persons
employed in the care and conveyance of the mail of the United States;
all mariners actually employed in the service of any citizen or merchant
within the United States; the Secretary of the Commonwealth, the
Attorney-General, Treasurer, the two Auditors, Register of the Land
Office, Railroad Commissioner, Commissioner of Agriculture, and Super
intendent of Public Instruction, and their respective clerks; the door
keeper of the executive ; the clerks of both houses of the General
Assembly; the judge of any court; all inspectors or samplers of tobacco;
all professors, tutors, and pupils of public seminaries ; all ministers of the
gospel licensed to preach according to the rules of their sect ; keepers of
the county and corporation jails ; superintendents and servants of the
public hospitals and lunatic asylums ; superintendent of the peniten
tiary, his assistants, and the persons composing the guard ; the officers of
the several banks established by law; the police in cities and towns; the
tipstaff and crier of the court of appeals, during its sitting; all millers
necessarily and personally employed in any grist mill ; all ferrymen in
like manner employed at any ferry established by law ; the six lock-
keepers of the Dismal Swamp canal company ; all toll-gathers on any
canal or turnpike company in this state; and non-commissioned officers
and members of volunteer companies, shall be exempt from serving on
juries in civil and criminal cases; and the citizens of Tangier, Syxes,
Chincoteague islands in the county of Accomac, and Hog and Cobb's
islands, in the county of Northampton, and the citizens of Gwyma's
island, in the county of Mathews, shall be exempt from jury service,
except service on grand juries. But to entitle the officers and members
of a fire department or company, or of a volunteer company, to this
exemption, the captain or chief officer of such department or company,
shall annually, on the first day of May of each year, furnish to the clerk
of the county or corporation court of the county or corporation wherein
such department or company is, a list containing the name of each offi
cer and member of his department or company, and where there are
contributing members to his department or company, the name of each
contributing member shall be likewise furnished.
Sec. 3141. Same.—All persons, while actually engaged in harvesting or
securing grain or hay, or in cutting or securing tobacco, shall be exempt
from service on juries.
Sec. 3142. Judges of county and corporation courts to prepare annually
lists of jurors. —The judge of each county and corporation court shall
annually, at the May or June term thereof, prepare a list of such inhabit
ants of the county or corporation, not exempt by section thirty-one
hundred and forty, as are well qualified to serve as jurors. Such list
shall contain one for every one hundred inhabitants of each magisterial
district, or ward, having regard to the population of the county or corpo
ration, but the whole number of persons selected in the county or
corporation shall not be less than one hundred, nor more than three
hundred.
Sec. 3143. Lists to be delivered to clerks, and by them safely kept.—The
list so prepared shall be delivered to the clerk of the court, to be safely
kept by him, subject only to the inspection of the judge, as hereinafter
provided; and to such list the judge may, from time to time, add the
names of any persons liable to serve, and strike therefrom the names of
any who have been convicted of an infamous offence: Provided, that the
number on the list shall not at any time exceed three hundred.
Sec. 3144. Names of jurors to be written on separate ballots; ballots to be
folded and deposited in a secure box.—When sudi list is made out, the judge
shall cause all the names thereon to be fairly written, each on a separate
paper or ballot, and shall so fold or roll up the ballots that they will
resemble each other as nearly as may be, and the names written thereon
not be visible on the outside, and shall deposit the ballots in a secure
box, prepared for that purpose, to be safely kept by the clerk and opened
only by order of the judge, as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 3145. Jurors to be selected by drawing ballots from box.—All jurors
required for the trial of civil cases in any circuit, county, corporation, or
hustings court, shall be selected by drawing ballots from the said box in
the manner prescribed in this chapter ; and the persons whose name?
are written on the ballots so drawn, shall be returned to serve as jurors,
except that jurors required for the trial of cases in the circuit court of
Spotsylvania county, when the said court is sitting in Fredericksburg,
shall be selected by drawing ballots from the box of the corporation or
hustings court of said city ; and when the court is sitting at the court
house of said county, the jurors aforesaid shall be selected by drawing
ballots from the box of the county court; the said jurors for the county
to be paid out of the county levy, and those for the corporation to be
paid by the council out of the revenue of the said city ; and except also
that jurors required for the trial of cases in the circuit court of James
City and the city of Williamsburg, shall be selected by drawing ballots
from the box of the county court of James City and the box of the hus
tings court of Williamsburg, in the manner prescribed in this chapter ;
the ballots drawn from the two boxes respectively being in the propor
tion which the said court or the judge thereof in vacation may direct.
The sheriff of the county of James City may summon the inhabitants of
the said county in any part of the city of Williamsburg to serve on
juries in the said county.
Sec. 3146. When and how ballots drawn, and what number ; when venire
facias issued and persons drawn summoned ; return by officer. When ballot
drawn to be returned to box or destroyed, and another juror drawn. —The
clerk of every county and corporation court, shall, at least ten days before
any term of a court at which a jury may be necessary, to be designated
by the judge thereof, after shaking and mixing together the ballots in the
said jury box, in the presence of the judge of such court, if present, if
not, in the presence of the commonwealth's attorney, or a commissioner
in chancery of the circuit court of the county or corporation, openly
draw therefrom sixteen ballots (without inspecting the names written on
any until the proper number is drawn), and forthwith issue and deliver
a writ of venire facias to the proper officer of the county or corporation
requiring him to summon the persons thus drawn, whose names shall be
stated in the writ, together with the day of the term and the court at
which their attendance is required. And it shall be the duty of the
officer at least three days before the time of such attendance to summon
each person who is drawn, to attend the court at the time and place
mentioned in the writ, and to make due return thereof at the opening of
such court. If any person, whose name is so drawn, is unable, by reason
of sickness, absence from home, or other cause, to attend as a juror, his
name shall be returned to the box, or if he is exempt by law, or his
name has been struck from the jury list, the ballot shall be destroyed,
and another juror shall be drawn in his stead.
Sec. 3147. When and how court or judge may order greater number of
jurors; duty of clerk of circuit court in such case; issue of venire facias.
Whenever, in the opinion of the circuit or county court of the county,
or the circuit or corporation court of the corporation, or the judge thereof
in vacation, a greater number of jurors than sixteen is necessary for the
dispatch of the business of said court, such opinion shall be entered of
record, together with the number of jurors deemed necessary. If the
order is made by a circuit court, or the judge thereof in vacation, it shall
be the duty of the clerk of such court, at least twenty days before the
jurors are required to attend, to notify in writing the clerk of the county
or corporation court of the number of jurors so ordered and the time and
place at which their attendance is required, and the clerk of such county
or corporation court shall issue the venire facias accordingly.
Sec. 3148. What endorsed on ballot, when drawn ; what entered on list,
When any person is drawn and returned to serve as a juror as aforesaid,
the judge, if present, if not, the commonwealth's attorney or commis
sioner in chancery, shall cause to be endorsed on the ballot containing
his name, the word "drawn," and shall return it to the box; and the
date of the draft shall be entered on the list of jurors opposite his name.
Sec. 3149. No person liable to serve as juror more than once during, same
year.—No person, who, in pursuance of such draft, has actually attended
any court and served as a juror, shall be liable to be drawn again during
the same year, unless all the persons whose names are in the jury box
have been drawn to serve during such year.
Sec. 3150. How juries selected from the jurors.—On the day when the
jurors are summoned to attend at any court, the clerk shall write the
name of each one who shall be in attendance and not excused, on a
separate paper or ballot, and place the same in a box to be kept for that
purpose ; and juries for the trial of cases shall be selected therefrom by
lot.
Sec. 3151. Fine of juror for non-attendance.— If any person, duly suminoned
to attend as a juror in any court, shall neglect to attend, without
sufficient excuse, he shall pay a fine not exceeding twenty dollars, to be
imposed by the court.
Sec. 3152. Court may discharge jurors, or dispense with their attendance,
Any court, when not incompatible with the proper dispatch of its busi
ness, shall have power to discharge persons summoned as jurors therein,
or to dispense with their attendance on any day of its sitting.
Sec. 3153. When not enough jurors, how deficiency supplied.— When, by
reason of challenge or otherwise, a sufficient number of jurors sum-
moned, cannot be obtained for the trial of any case, the court may cause
a sufficient number to be returned from the bystanders, or issue a writ of
venire facias for jurors from the county or corporation at large ; and when
ever the court deems it proper for the convenient dispatch of business, it
may cause a writ of venire facias to be issued for so many jurors as may
be necessary. All of said jurors shall be summoned from a list of per
sons liable to serve as jurors to be furnished the officer by the court.
Writs of venire facias issued under this section shall be executed and
returned as the court shall direct.
Sec. 3154. Examination of juror as to interest, prejudice, &c. ; if not
indifferent, another to be supplied.—The court shall, on motion of either
party in any suit, examine on oath any person who is called as a juror
therein, to ascertain whether he is related to either party, or has any
interest in the cause, or has expressed or formed any opinion, or is sensi
ble of any bias or prejudice therein ; and the party objecting to the juror
may introduce any competent evidence in support of the objection ; and
if it shall appear to the court that the juror does not stand indifferent in
the cause, another shall be drawn or called and placed in his stead for
the trial of that cause.
Sec. 3155. When exception to juror not allowed.— No exception to any
juror on account of his age or other legal disability, shall be allowed
after he is sworn, unless by leave of the court.
Sec. 3156. Irregularity cured by verdict.— No irregularity in any writ of
venire facias, or in the drawing, summoning, returning, or impaneling of
jurors, shall be sufficient to set aside a verdict, unless the party making
the objection was injured by the irregularity, or unless the objection was
made before the swearing of the jury.
Sec. 3157. -Fine of officers, &c, for neglect of duty.— When, by neglect
of any of the duties required in this chapter to be performed by any of
the officers or persons mentioned therein, the jurors to be returned shall
not be duly drawn and summoned to attend the court, any person guilty
of such neglect, shall pay a fine not exceeding twenty dollars, to be
imposed by the court.
Sec. 3158. How special juries formed. — Any court, in a case where a jury
is required, may allow a special jury, which shall be formed in the fol
lowing manner: The court shall order such persons to be summoned, as
it shall designate for the purpose, and from those summoned, a panel of
twenty qualified jurors, free from just cause of exception, shall be made,
from which sixteen shall be chosen by lot. Thereupon, the parties or
their counsel, beginning with the plaintiff, shall alternately strike off one
from the sixteen so chosen, until the number is reduced to twelve, who
shall compose the jury for the trial of the cause. If the parties or their
counsel decline or fail to strike off any from the sixteen, or if, after one
or more has been stricken off and the number remaining is greater than
twelve, the party or bis counsel, entitled next in order to strike off,
decline or fail to do so, then a jury of twelve for the trial of the cause
shall be chosen by lot from the sixteen or the number remaining as afore
said, as the case may be.
Sec. 3159. Whence jurors obtained for trial of case to which a city, town,
or county, is a party ; how the venire facias directed and executed ; how
jury formed. —If, in any case which is to be tried by a jury, a county,
city, or town be a party, and the trial is to be had in a court of said
county or city, the said court, or the judge thereof in vacation, shall, upon
the application of either party, order such number of persons (not less
than twenty), qualified to serve on juries, as the court or judge may pre
scribe, to be summoned from an adjacent county, city, or town, on a writ
of venire facias to be issued for the purpose, and from those summoned, a
panel of twenty qualified jurors, free from just cause of exception, shall
be made, from which a jury of twelve for the trial of the case shall be
chosen in the manner prescribed by the preceding section. A writ of
venire facias awarded under this section may be directed to and executed
by the sheriff or sergeant of the county or corporation in which the trial
is to be had, or from which the jurors are to come.
Sec. 3160. Pay and mileage of jurors.— Every person summoned as a
juror shall be entitled to one dollar for each day of service on a jury, and
to fifty cents for each day of attendance upon the court without such ser
vice. Such juror, for each day of such attendance shall also be entitled
to mileage at the rate of four cents per mile for each mile necessarily
traveled in going to and returning from court; such mileage, however,
in no case to exceed one dollar per day, such pay and mileage to be paid
out of the county or corporation levy. And when, during the same day,
a person has served as a juror, for which he is entitled to be paid out of
the public treasury, and has also served as a juror for which he is enti
tled to be paid out of the county or corporation levy, the court shall
■divide the pay and mileage for such day between the state and the
county or corporation. And it shall be the duty of the sheriff or ser
geant of the county or corporation court, at the term of the court during
■which an allowance is made, or has been made under this section, to fur
nish the clerk of such court with a statement showing the number and
names of the jurors in attendance upon the court and the number of
miles respectively traveled by them. In every case the claim of the
juror for attendance and for mileage shall be verified by his affidavit.
Sec. 3161. Juror departing without leave, &c. not entitled to pay. —No
person shall be entitled to receive any compensation for service as a juror,
if he shall depart without the leave of the court, or, being summoned as
a witness for the commonwealth, shall charge for his attendance as such.
Sec. 3162. Increase of pay of jurors by counties and corporations.—The
"board of supervisors of any county, and the council of any city, may, by
an order entered of record, which order shall be annually made, when
the levies are laid, allow a greater or less compensation than is proscribed
in this chapter in those cases in which jurors are to be paid out of county
or corporation levies; except, that not less than fifty centa a day shall be
paid to each person who shall serve as a juror, nor less than twenty-five
cents a day for attendance in obedience to a summons when he does not
serve.
Sec. 3163. Clerks to enter amount due each juror and how same to-be paid,
The clerk of any court in which juries are impaneled shall, before its final
adjournment at each term, and under the direction of the court, make an
entry upon its minutes, stating the amount to which each juror is enti
tled for his service* or attendance during the term, and specifying how
much is payable by the commonwealth, and how much by the county or
■corporation.
Sec. 3164. To transmit to Auditor copies of such allowances against state,
and deliver to jurors copies of allowances made them. Treasurers to pay
jurors; how reimbursed; when payment of such allowances barred. —It
shall be the duty of such clerk, as soon as practicable after the adjourn
ment of the court, to transmit to the Auditor of Public Accounts, certi
fied copies of all orders under the preceding section, making allowances
against the commonwealth ; and also to deliver to each juror certified
■copies of any orders making an allowance to him, whether the same be
payable by the commonwealth or by the county or corporation; and the
treasurer of such county or corporation shall, upon demand, pay to such
juror the amount allowed him, which shall be repaid to the said treasu
rer out of the public treasury, or out of the county or corporation levy, as
the case may be, upon the production of satisfactory proof that the same
has been actually paid by him. No such allowance shall be paid unless
presented within two years from the time of rendering the service.
Sec. 3165. When a person not to serve as juror. —No person shall be
admitted to serve as a juror at a term of a court during which he has any
matter of controversy, which has been or is expected to be tried by a
jury during the same term.
Sec. 3166. Waiver of trial by jury ; reduction of number of jurors by
consent.—In any case, unle.ss one of the parties demand that the case be
tried by a jury, the whole matter of law and of fact may be heard and
determined, and judgment given by the court ; and, by consent of parties,
entered of record, the jury may consist of seven, and in that case a ver
dict shall be as valid, and have the same effect, as if it had been found
by a jury of twelve. And in any case in which the consent of the plaintiff
and defendant shall be entered of record, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff
to select one person, who is eligible as a juror, and for the defendant to
select another, and for the two to select a third of like qualifications, and
the three so selected shall constitute a jury in the case. They shall take
the oath required of jurors, and hear and determine the issue, and any
two concurring, shall render a verdict in like manner and with the like
effect as a jury of twelve.
Sec. 3167. Views by juries.— The jury may, in any case, at the request
of either party, be taken to view the premises or place in question, or
any property, matter, or thing, relating to the controversy between the
parties, w hen it shall appear to the court that such view is necessary to a
just decision : Provided, the party making the motion shall advance a
sum sufficient to defray the expenses of the jury and the officers who
attend them in taking the view, which expenses shall be afterward?
taxed like other legal costs.
Sec. 3168. Disclosure by juror.—A juror, knowing anything relative to
a .n jgg,^ ghall disclose the same in open court.
Sec. 3169. Clerks of court of appeals; their terms; removal.—There
shall be a clerk of the court of appeals at each place of session of the
court ; to- wit, one at Richmond, one at Staunton, and one at VA'ytheville.
The term of office of each of these clerks shall be six years ; but he may
be removed from office by the court at any time.
Sec. 3170. Appointment of deputies; their duties; how removed, &c—
Any clerk of the court of appeals, with the consent of the court or of any
three of the judges thereof in vacation (the said consent in vacation
being given in writing), may appoint a deputy, who may discharge any
of the official duties of his principal during his continuance in office,
unless it be some duty the performance of which by a deputy is expressly
forbidden by law. He may be removed from office either by his princi
pal, or by the court, or by any three of the judges thereof in vacation.
Sec. 3171. Said clerks not to act as counsel.— No clerk of the court of
uppeaLs shall, during his term of office, act as counsel in any case pending
in said court, or which may be taken to the same by appeal, or other
wise. Any clerk violating this section shall be removed from office.
Sec. 3172. How vacancy in office filled. —-When the office of clerk of the
said court at either of its places of session is vacant, the vacancy may be
filled by the court, or in vacation, by any three of its judges concurring
in the appointment. The appointment in vacation shall be in writing,
and recorded in the book wherein the proceedings of the court at the
place of session for which the appointment is made are recorded.
Sec. 3173. Appointment of successors.—Before the term of a clerk of the
court of appeals expires, his successor may be appointed and qualified to
act in the office from the end of the said term.
Sec. 3174. Examination of clerk's office.— Before any vacancy, existing
or to occur in the office of clerk, shall be filled, the court shall, and at any
other time it may, appoint two or more persons to examine the clerk's
office. They shall examine the fee books, and the condition of the
records and papers in the office, and report whether the clerk has faith
fully discharged his duties. The court may allow to each person making
such examination, not exceeding five dollars a day, which, if the exami
nation be of the clerk's office of a county or corporation court, shall be
chargeable on such county or corporation, and in other cases shall be
paid out of the treasury.
Sec. 3175. Bonds of clerks of court of appeals ; where recorded.—The
court of appeals shall take from each of its clerks a bond in the penalty
of not less than three nor more than ten thousand dollars. If the clerk
be appointed in vacation under section thirty-one hundred and seventy-
two, the bond may be taken in vacation by the judges making the
appointment. Every such clerk shall within ten days after the execu
tion of his bond, or of any new or additional bond which may be
required of him, deliver the same to the clerk of the court of the county
or corporation wherein is the place of session of the court of appeals for
which the clerk giving the bond was appointed. Every such bond shall
be forthwith recorded by the clerk to whom it is so delivered. Any
clerk who fails to do what is required of him by this section shall be
fined not less than fifty nor more than one hundred dollars.
Sec. 3176. Where clerk's office to be kept.—The clerk's office of the
court of appeals at Richmond, Staunton, and Wytheville shall continue
at the places at which they are now kept, unless the said court shall see
cause to direct its clerk's oflice, in any case, to be kept elsewhere. The
clerk's office of the circuit court of the county of Spotsylvania may be
kept at such place in the city of Fredericksburg as may be prescribed by
the said court. The clerk's office of every other circuit, county, or cor
poration court of any county or corporation, shall be kept at the court
house of such county or corporation, unless there shall have been a'failure
by the proper authority to provide such office there, in which case
the clerk's office may be kept at such other place within the county or
corporation as the court may direct,
Sec. 3177. Preservation of papers therein.— All papers lawfully returned
to, or filed in, the clerk's office, shall be preserved therein until legally
delivered out.
Sec. 3178. Removal of records or papers out of county or corporation
prohibited, except in certain cases.— None of the records or papers of a
court shall be removed by the clerk, nor allowed by the court to be
removed, out of the county or corporation wherein the clerk's office i*
kept, except on an occasion of invasion or insurrection, where, in the
opinion of the court, or in a very sudden case, of the clerk, the same
will be endangered, after which they are to be returned so soon as the
clanger ceases ; and except in such other cases as are specially provided
for by law. Any clerk violating this section shall forfeit six hundred
dollars.
Sec. 3179. Records, &c, open to inspection; copies authorized.—The
records and papers of every court shall be open to the inspection of any
person, and the clerk shall, when required, furnish copies thereof, except
in cases where it is otherwise specially provided.
Sec. 3180. Power of clerk to administer oath. —Any clerk of a court may
administer an oath in any case wherein an affidavit is necessary or
proper as the foundation of an official act to be performed by him.
Sec. 3181. Clerk to prepare bonds.—Every clerk shall prepare, in a proper
manner, any bond to be taken by, or given before, him or his court.
Sec. 3182. Execution book ; what clerk to enter therein.— The clerk of
every circuit, county, or corporation court shall keep an execution book,
in which he shall enter in each case wherein an execution is issued, the
names of the parties, the time of the judgment, the amount thereof, or a
reference to the page of the order book wherein the amount appears, the
date of each execution, nature thereof, when returnable, and, if return be
made thereon, the nature of such return.
Sec. 3183. Clerk to make index to each of his books.— The clerk of every
court shall have an index to each book he is required to keep, making
convenient reference to every order, record, or entry therein. Every exe
cution, and every judgment or decree for money, shall be indexed, as well
in the name of the person against whom as in the name of the person in
whose favor the same is.
Sec. 3184. Courts mav have general index made to deed books, will
books, &c. How deeds, wills, &c. when recorded, to be indexed.—The court
of every county and corporation wherein a general index to the deed
books, will books, and records of fiduciary accounts on tile in the clerk's
office of such county or corporation has not been provided, or wherein
such general index has been provided and has become so defaced as to
render another general index necessary and proper, or wherein the index
does not show the Christian names or the initals of the grantor, grantee,
or testator, may, in its discretion, appoint a suitable person, whose duty it
shall be to make a general index to such deed books in the full names of
the grantor and grantee, and a general index to the will books and record
of fiduciary accounts ; and the said court shall certify a proper allowance
to the person so appointed, as compensation for services performed under
such order, to the board of supervisors of the county, or to the council of
the corporation to be levied for. It shall be the duty of the clerk of every
county and corporation court to index all recorded deeds, wills, and fidu
ciary accounts as well in the general index as in the deed books, will
books, and fiduciary accounts.
Sec. 3185. When and how clerk to verify his record.— The clerk of every
court of record shall verify the accuracy of the records made by him, by
a careful examination and comparison of the same with the original
paper so recorded, within ten days after such record is made, and shall
note such verification and the d;ite thereof upon the margin of the record,
and for any failure and default herein, he shall be liable to a fine of not
less than ten nor more than fifty dollars, in the discretion of the judge of
his court; but this provision shall not apply to clerks of courts in cities
having ten thousand or more inhabitants.
Sec. 3186. When and how to note release of deed of trust, &c—Whenever a
release of a deed of trust or other obligation shall be admitted to record
in the clerk's office of any county or corporation court, or of the chan-
eery court of the city of Kichmond, it shall be the duty of the clerk of such
court to make a memorandum on the margin of the page of the book,
upon which such deed or other obligation is recorded, stating that such
deed or other obligation is released, and referring to the page and num
ber of the deed book upon which such release is recorded ; and if any
clerk fail to do anything required of him by this section, he shall be lia
ble for any damage which any person may sustain by reason of such fail
ure, and shall pay a fine of not less than thirty nor more than three hun
dred dollars to any person who will prosecute therefor.
Sec. 3187. Clerk to keep process book ; how process, decrees, &c, to be
served, entered therein ; how delivered or sent out ; receipt of officer. —
The clerk of every circuit, county, or corporation court, from whose office
may be issued any process, original, mesne, or final, or any order or
decree to be served on any person, shall, unless the party interested, or
his attorney, direct otherwise, deli%-er the same to the sheriff or other
officer of the county or corporation for which the court is held, if it is
to be executed therein, and if it is to be executed in any other county or
corporation, shall inclose the same to the sheriff or other officer thereof,
put it in the postoffice, and pay the postage thereon. The clerk shall
keep a process book, wherein there shall be an entry of every such pro
cess, order, or decree, showing its nature, date, and return day ; the per
son to whom and the time when it was delivered ; or, if it was mailed,
the time thereof and the person to whom it was inclosed. From any
officer, to whom there is such delivery, the clerk shall take a receipt in
his process book.
Sec. 3188. Duplicate certificate of allowance prohibited, unless ordered
by court.—There shall be no duplicate certificate of any allowance of a
court to be paid out of the treasury, unless the court, upon proof by the
oath of the party or otherwise of the loss or destruction of the original
certificate, shall order a duplicate, which shall show on its face that it is
a duplicate issued by order of the court. Any clerk who shall issue a
duplicate otherwise, shall forfeit one hundred dollars.
Sec. 3189. Reports by clerks of the business in, and days of session of. the
courts. —The clerks of the court of appeals, and the clerk of each circuit
and corporation court, shall annually, before the first day of November,
make to the clerk of the House of Delegates a report of the number of
days the court was in session within the year ending on the last day of
August preceding, and the state of the business in the court during the
said year, in the following form:
The report shall show, as to each of the said classes of cases, the number
of each kind during the whole year, except that the number pending
shall be of those pending at the end of the year, which shall include
cases at rules as well as on the court docket. In the actions decided
there shall be included judgments by default in the office which have
become final. But there shall not be included judgments on forthcom
ing bonds, or on notices of motion other than notices authorized by sec
tion thirty -two hundred and eleven. The clerk may append any remarks,
and therein give any information which he sees fit as to any case in his
court.
Sec. 3190. Penalty for failure.—The clerk of the House of Delegates
shall report to the Auditor of Public Accounts every clerk who fails to
make such report. Any clerk so failing, may be fined not exceeding
fifty dollars.
CHAPTER CUV.
01' ATTORSEYs-AT-LAW GENERALLY.
Sec. See.
8191. How, a person is licensed to practice . 3197. How revoked or suspended for fail-
law. Certain licenses validated. ure to pay over money or deliver
3192. Who may practice law in thin state. ' security.
3193. Attorney to qualify in each court in 3198. Security for good behavior, or, Ac.
which he practises. 3199. Certain officers, Ac. forbidden to
3194. Penalty for practising without being practise law in particular courts.
licensed and qualified ; when pen- 3200. Liability of attorney to client,
alty not incurred. 32nl. Attorney's fee.
3195. When license superseded. 3202. No court to decree fee to counsel out
319G. How suspended or annulled formal- of funds under its control, unless,
practise. Ac.
Sec. 3191. How a person is licensed to practise law. Certain licenses validated.—
Any two judges of the courts of this state, except judges of
county and corporation courts, may grant a license in writing to practise
law in the courts of this state to any person who, on actual examination
by such judges, shall be found by them duly qualified, and who shall
produce to them a certificate from the court of any county or corporation
in this state that to the personal knowledge of the judge of such court,
or from the information of credible witnesses testifying on oath before
such court, the court is satisfied that the applicant is a person of honest
demeanor, and is over twenty-one years of age. All licenses granted or
signed by any judge of the supreme court of appeals of this state since
the fourteenth day of January, eighteen hundred and sixty-four, shall
be as valid as if granted or signed by a judge of a circuit court of this
state.
^6C' ^''10 Prac*'se 'aw 'n M"8 state.—Any person, duly
authorized and practising as counselor attorney at law in any state or
territory of the United States, or in the District of Columbia, may prac
tise as such in the courts of this state.
Sec. 3193. Attorney to qualify in each court in which he practises.—
Every such person shall produce, before each court in which he intends
to practise, satisfactory evidence of his being so licensed or authorized,
and take an oath that he will honestly demean himself in the practice
of the law, and to the best of his ability execute his office of attorney at
law ; and also, when he is licensed in this state, take the oath of fidelity
to the commonwealth.
Sec. 3194. Penalty for practising withont being licensed and qualified ;
when penalty not incurred. —If any person shall practise law in any court
of this state, without being so licensed or authorized, or without taking
the oaths required, he shall forfeit one hundred and fifty dollars for each
case in which he shall appear as attorney, one-half whereof shall be to
the informer ; but this penalty shall not be incurred by an attorney for
instituting a suit after obtaining a license, if he shall qualify at the first
term thereafter of any court of the county or corporation in which he
resides.
Sec. 3195. When license superseded. —Any court before which an attor
ney has qualified, on proof being made that he has been convicted of a
felony, may supersede his license.
Sec. 319G. When suspended or annulled for malpractice.— If the supreme
court 0f appea]s or a circuit court observes any malpractice therein by
an attorney, or if complaint be made to a circuit court of malpractice by
an attorney therein, or in the court of the county or corporation for
which said circuit court is held, such court shall issue a rule against said
attorney to show cause why an information shall not be filed against
him. If such information be ordered, a jury shall be impaneled, when
required by the defendant, and if he be found guilty by the court, or by
the jury where one is impaneled, his license shall be revoked, or suspen
ded for a time, as may seem to the court proper. When the case is in
the supreme court of appeals, the court shall direct one of its officers to
summon the jury from the county or corporation in which said court is
then being held, to be impaneled and paid as in cases of misdemeanor in
the county or corporation court.
Sec. 3197. How revoked or suspended for failure to pay over money or
deliver security.— If an attorney-at-law collect money, or be the custodian
of any security for the payment of money, and fail to pay or deliver the
same, without sufficient cause, to the person entitled thereto, within a
reasonable time after demand made, it shall be the duty of the common
wealth's attorney, on the application of the party aggrieved, to give
information thereof to the circuit court of the county or corporation in
which the attorney resides; and thereupon said court shall issue a rule
against such attorney to show cause why his license shall not be revoked.
Upon the return of the rule, a jury shall be impaneled for the trial of
any matter of fact, if required by the defendant ; and if it shall be found
by the jury, or by the court, when no jury is impaneled, that the failure
of the attorney to pay over such money or to deliver such security was
without sufficient cause, his license shall be revoked, or suspended for
a time, as to the court may seem proper.
Sec. 3198. Security for good behavior, or, &c—Nothing in the two preceding sections shall affect the right of any court to require from an
attorney therein security for his good behavior, or to fine him for a con
tempt of the court.
Sec. 3199. Certain officers. &c, forbidden to practise law in particular
%
courts. —If any clerk, sheriff, or sergeant, or any deputy of either, or any
person interested in the profits of any such office, shall act as attorney
at law in any case in any court of which such clerk, sheriff, or sergeant
is a member or officer, he shall forfeit thirty dollars.
Sec. 3200. Liability of attorney to client.— Every attorney at law shall
.
be liable to his client for any damage sustained by him by the neglect of
his duty as such attorney. If any attorney receive money for his client
and fail to pay the same on demand, it may be recovered from him by
warrant, or by suit, or motion, according to the amount ; and damages in
lieu of interest, not exceeding fifteen per csiitum per annum until paid,
may be awarded against him.*
Sec. 3201. Attorney's fee.— An attorney shall be entitled, as a fee, to
the amount which the clerk is authorized to tax in the bill of costs, in
any suit, or for any service as such attorney. But any contract made
with an attorney for higher compensation shall be valid and he may
recover such sum as he contracts for with the party for whom the service
is rendered ; and, if there be no such contract, he may recover from such
party, what his services are reasonably worth.
Sec. 3202. No court to decree fee to counsel out of funds under its control,
unless, &c. —No court shall make any decree or order for the allowance of
any fee or compensation to counsel to be paid out of money or property
under the control of the court, unless the claim therefor be stated in the
bill, petition, or other proceeding, of which the parties interested shall
have due notice, or unless such parties be notified in writing that appli
cation will be made to the court for such decree or order.
Sec. 3203. Who may require his opinion and advice.—The AttorneyQenera]
ghai] give his opinion and advice, in writing, when required to
do so by the Governor, or by any of the public boards and officers at the
seat of government.
Sec. 3204. In what courts, counsel for state.— He shall appear as counsel
for the state in all cases in which the commonwealth is interested,
depending in the supreme court of appeals, the supreme court of the
United States, the district and circuit courts of the United States for the
state of Virginia, and the circuit court of the city of Richmond : and he
shall discharge such other duties as may be imposed by the General
Assembly.
Sec. 3205. His annual report.—He shall annually, on or before the first
jjgy Qf November, deliver to the Governor a report of the state and con
dition of the several causes in which the commonwealth is a party, pend
ing in the said courts.
Sec. 3206. His office.— The Governor shall assign to the Attorney-Generaj
a room m yie capjtoi for ),jg office, if that be practicable ; but nothing
shall be allowed for the rent of any office for the Attorney-General.
Sec. 3207. Mode of serving a notice, and evidence of service.—A notice,
no particular mode of serving which is prescribed, may be served by deliv-
ering a copy thereof in writing to the party in person ; or, if he be not
found at his usual place of abode, by delivering such copy and giving
information of its purport to his wife or any person found there, who is a
member of his family, and above the age of sixteen years ; or, if neither
he nor his wife, nor any such person be found there, by leaving such copy
posted at the front door of said place of abode. Any sheriff, sergeant, or
constable, thereto required, shall serve a notice within his county or cor
poration, and make return of the manner and time of service ; for a fail
ure so to do he shall forfeit twenty dollars. Such return, or a similar
return by any other person who verifies it by affidavit, shall be evidence
of the manner and time of service.*
Sec. 3208. Service as to non-residents.— Any such notice to a person not
residing in Virginia may be served by the publication thereof once a week,
for four successive weeks, in a newspaper printed in this state.
Sec. 3209. Ten days' notice generally required of motion for judgment.—
In any case wherein there may be judgment or decree for money on
motion, such motion shall be after ten days' notice, unless some other
time be specified in the section or statute giving such motion,
Sec. 3210. Remedy by motion on certain bonds taken or given by officers.
The court to which, or in, or to whose clerk or office, any bond taken by
an officer, or given by any sheriff, sergeant, or constable, is required to be
returned, filed or recorded, may, on motion of any person, give judgment
for so much money as he is entitled, by virtue of such bond, to recover
by action.
Sec 3211. Remedy by motion after fifteen days' notice, on contracts generally;
when notice to be returned to clerk's office; provision to prevent
discontinuance of motion.— Any person entitled to recover money by
action on any contract, may, on motion before any court which would
have jurisdiction in an action, otherwise than under section thirty-two
hundred and fifteen, obtain judgment for such money after fifteen days'
notice, which notice shall be returned to the clerk's office of such court
ten days before the commencement of the term. A motion under this section, which is docketed under section thirty-three hundred and seventy-
eight, shall not be discontinued by reason of no order of continuance
being entered in it from one day to another, or from term to term. This section shall not be construed as intended to affect the remedy by motion
given by the preceding section.
Sec. 3212. Against whom of those liable, judgment may be given on
motion. —A person entitled to obtain judgment for money on motion,
may, as to any, or the personal representatives of any person liable for
such money, move severally against each, or jointly against all, or jointly
against any intermediate number; and when notice of his motion is not
served on all of those to whom it is directed, judgment may nevertheless
be given against so many of those liable as shall appear to have been
served with the notice : Provided, that judgment against such personal
representatives shall, in all cases, be several. Such motions may be made
from time to time until there is judgment against every person liable, or
his personal representative,
Sec. 3213. When, on a motion, there may be trial by jury.—On a motion,
when an issue of fact is joined, and either party desire it, or, when in
*ne °Pm'on °f tne court, it is proper, a jury shall be impaneled, unless
the case be one in which the recovery is limited to an amount not
greater than twenty dollars, exclusive of interest.
Sec. 3214. The county or corporation in which actions at law, or suits in
equity, maybe brought. —Any action at law, or suit in equity, except0'
where it is otherwise specially provided, may be brought in any county
or corporation :
First, Wherein any of the defendants may reside ;*
Second, If a corporation be a defendant, wherein its principal office is,
or wherein its mayor, rector, president, or other chief officer resides;
Third, If it be to recover a loss under a policy of insurance, either
upon property or life, wherein the property insured was situated, or the
person whose life was insured resided, at the date of the policy ;
Fourth, If it be to recover land,t or subject it to a debt, or be against a
defendant who resides without, but has estate or debts owing to him
within, this state, or be against a foreign corporation which has estate or
debts owing to it within this state, wherein such land, estate, or debts, or
any part thereof may bo ;
Fifth, If it be on behalf of the commonwealth, whether in the name of
the Attorney-General or otherwise,}: it may be in the city of Richmond ;
Sixth, If it be an action or a suit in which it is necessary or proper to
make any of the following public officers a party defendant, to-wit, the
Governor, Attorney-General, Treasurer, Register of the Land Office,
cither Auditor, Superintendent of Public Instruction, Railroad Commis
sioner, or Commissioner of Agriculture ; or in which it may be necessary
or proper to make any of the following public corporations a party
defendant, to-wit, the Board of Education, Board of Public Works, or
other public corporation composed of officers of government, of the funds
and property of which the commonwealth is sole owner ; or in which it
«hall be attempted to enjoin or otherwise suspend or affect any judgment
or decree on behalf of the commonwealth, or any execution issued on
such judgment or decree ; it shall be only in the city of Richmond ;t '
Seventh, If a judge of a circuit court be interested in a case, which, but
for such interest, would be proper for the jurisdiction of his court, the
action or suit may be brought in any county or corporation in an adjoin
ing circuit.
Sec. 3215. Same.—An action may be brought in any county or corpora
tion wherein the cause of action, cr any part thereof, arose, although
none of the defendants reside therein.*
Sec. 3216. In what courts, actions or suits may be brought; when to be
bj.gugjjj or transferred to, circuit court of Richmond; to what extent
judgment or decree void, if action or suit not so transferred.— Any action
or suit mentioned in the two preceding sections may be in a circuit court
of any county, or circuit or corporation court of any corporation, wherein
it is allowed or required thereby to be brought ; except that any such
action or suit as is allowed by the fifth subdivision of section thirty-two
hundred and fourteen, or required by the sixth subdivision of the said section, to be brought in the city of Richmond, shall be in the circuit
court of the said city. And if any such action or suit as is mentioned in
the said sixth subdivision is now pending or be hereafter brought in any
other court than the circuit court of the city of Richmond, it shall, by
order of such other court, be transferred, together with all the papers and
proceedings therein, to the circuit court of the city of Richmond, to be
proceeded in to a final decision in the said circuit court. And if such
action or suit be not so transferred, but be proceeded in to judgment or
decree in the court wherein it is so pending or shall have been so
brought, such judgment or decree, so far as it may be against any of the
public officers or public corporations mentioned in the said sixth subdi
vision or against the commonwealth, shall be void.
Sec. 3217. Jurisdiction of writ of quo warranto, or information in nature
of writ of quo warranto.—Jurisdiction of a proceeding by writ of 71/0
warranto, or information in the nature of a writ of if 10 warranto, shall be
in the circuit court of the county, or circuit or corporation court of the
corporation, wherein the defendant or one of the defendants resides; or,
if the defendant be a corporation, wherein its principal office is, or
wherein its mayor, rector, president, or other chief oflScer resides ; and,
if there be no such office or officer, or none of the defendants reside in
this state, the circuit court of the city of Richmond shall have jurisdic
tion.
Sec. 3218. Of mandamus, prohibition, and certiorari.—Jurisdiction of writs
of mandamus, prohibition, and certiorari (except such as may be issued from
the court of appeals) shall be in the circuit court of the county, or in the
circuit or corporation court of the corporation, wherein the record or
proceeding is to which the writ relates: Provided, that the county court
ol any county shall have jurisdiction of writs of mandamus, concurrent
with the circuit court of such county, in all matters or proceedings
arising from or appertaining to the action of the board of supervisors of
such county.
Sec. 3219. Forms of writs. —Until the court of appeals shall alter the
forms of writs, the same may be as heretofore used, except so far as is
otherwise provided.
Sec. 3220. Process, when issued; how directed and returnable; when
executed. — Process from any court, Svhether original, mesne, or final, may
be directed to the sheriff or sergeant of any county or corporation,
except that process against a defendant to answer in any action brought
under section thirty-t wo hundred and fifteen, shall not be directed to an
officer of any other county or corporation than that wherein the action
is brought, unless it be an action against a railroad, express, canal, navi
gation, turnpike, telegraph, or telephone company, or upon a bond taken
by an officer under authority of some statute, or to recover damages for
a wrong, or against two or more defendants, on one of whom such pro
cess has been executed in the county or corporation in which the action
is brought. Process shall be issued before the rule, day to which it is
returnable, and may be executed on or before that day, except that if it
be to answer in an action brought under section thirty-two hundred and
fifteen, and be executed on the defendant without the county or corpora
tion in which the action is brought, it must be executed at least ten days
before the return day of such process. If it appear to be duly served
and good in other respects, it shall be deemed valid, although not directed
to any officer, or if directed to an officer, though executed by any other
to whom it might lawfully have been directed. It shall be returnable,
within ninety days after its' date, to the court on the first day of a term,
or in the clerk's office, to the first or third Monday in a month, or to the
first day of any rules, except that a summons for a witness shall be return
able on whatever day his attendance is desired, and process awarded in
court may be returnable as the court shall direct.
97
Sec. 3221. When new process may issue ; if former process executed but
not returned, what to be done.— If, at the return day of any process, it be
not returned executed, an alias, or other proper process, may be issued,
without waiting (where the first process is returnable to a term) for the
subsequent process to be awarded at rules ; and where, for want of a
return of the first process against a defendant, any subsequent process
is issued, if the former was executed, the officer shall not execute the
latter, but shall return the former, if it be in his possession, and if he has
it not, shall return the latter with an endorsement of the execution of the
former, and the proceedings thereupon shall be as if the first had been
duly returned.
Sec. 3222. Officer's duty, after every rules, to get from clerk's office pro
cess, orders, and decrees.— Every officer who attends a court, shall, within
five days after the end of any rules, go to the clerk's office and receive all
process, orders, and decrees to be executed by him, and give receipts
therefor. For any failure so to do, he shall forfeit fifty dollars.
Sec. 3223. Process to commence a suit, a summons; how issued; not
altered afterwards. —The process to commence a suit shall be a writ com
manding the officer to whom it is directed to summon the defendant to
answer the bill or action. It shall be issued on the order of the plaintiff,
his attorney or agent, and shall not, after it is issued, be altered, nor any
blank therein filled up, except by the clerk.
Sec. 3224. How summons or scire facias served ; copy to be made out for
defendant. —Any summons or scire facias may be 6erved as a notice is
served under section thirty-two hundred and seven, except, that such
process (unless it be a summons for a witness) shall in all cases be served
by an officer ; and except also, that when such process is against a cor
poration, the mode of service, shall be as prescribed by the following section. The clerk issuing such process, unless otherwise directed, shall
deliver or transmit therewith as many copies thereof as there are persons
named therein, on whom it is to be served.
Sec. 3225. On whom process against, or notice to, a corporation may be
served. —Process against or notice to a corporation may be served as
follows : if the case be against a city or town, on its mayor, recorder, or
any alderman, councilman, or trustee, of such city or town ; if against a
bank, on its president, cashier, treasurer, or any one of its directors; if
against a railroad company, on its president, cashier, treasurer, general
superintendent, or any one of its directors ; if against some other corpora
tion created by the laws of this state, on its president, rector, or other
chief officer, cashier, treasurer, secretary, or any one of its directors,
trustees, or visitors ; if against a corporation created by some other state
or country, or in any case, if there be not in the county or corporation
wherein the case is commenced, any other person on whom there can be
service as aforesaid-, on any agent of the corporation against which the
case is (unless it be a case against a bank), or on any person declared by
the laws of this state to be an agent of such corporation; and if there be
no such agent in the county or corporation wherein the case is com
menced, on affidavit of that fact and that there is no other person in such
county or corporation on whom there can be service as aforesaid, publi
cation of a copy of the process or notice, once a week for four successive
weeks, in a newspaper printed in this state, shall be a sufficient service
of such process or notice. When the publication is of process, it shall
be made on an order directing the same in the case in which the process
issues. The order may be entered either in court or by the clerk of the
court at any time in vacation.
Sec. 3226. On whom served, when corporation operated by trustee or
lessee. —Where any corporation is operated by a trustee or trustees for its
own benefit, or for the benefit of its creditors, or by a lessee or lessees, it
shall be sufficient in any suit or proceeding against such corporation, its
trustee or trustees, lessee or lessees, to serve the process or notice on such
trustee or trustees, lessee or lessees, or on any one of them ; or on any of
their respective agents, if none of said trustees or lessees reside in the
county or corporation wherein the case is commenced. If there be no
such agent or other person in the county or corporation in which the suit
or other proceeding is commenced, upon whom there can be service as
aforesaid, publication of the process or notice may be made as pre
scribed by the preceding section, and such publication shall be equivalent
to personal service on such trustee or trustees, lessee or lessees.
Sec. 3227. How served; what return of officer to show ; how long to be
served in certain cases before return day. What term "agent " includes.— Ser
vice on any person under either of the two preceding sections shall be
by delivering to him a copy of the process or notice in the county or cor
poration wherein he resides, or his place of business is, or the principal
office of the corporation is located ; and the return shall show this, and
state on whom and when the service was ; otherwise, it shall not be
valid. If the process or notice be served on an ajient, or be served in
any other county or corporation than that wherein the suit or other pro
ceeding is brought or had, it shall be served at least ten days before the
return day of such process or notice. The term "agent," as employed in
each of the two preceding sections, shall be construed to include a tele
graph operator, telephone operator, depot or station agent of a railroad
company, and toll-gatherer of a canal or turnpike company.
Sec. 3228. On whom process against, or notice to, a common carrier not a
corporation, may be served. —In a case against any common carrier (other
than a corporation) for a liability as such, any process against or notice
to the carrier, may be served on such carrier, or on any agent, or on the
driver, captain, or conductor of any vehicle of such carrier in the county
or corporation wherein the case is commenced ; and if the carrier be not
in said county or corporation and there be no such agent, driver, captain,
or conductor therein, the process or notice shall be sufficiently served by
the publication thereof once a week for four successive weeks, in a news
paper printed in this state.
Sec. 3229. No judgment on returns of nihil.— No judgment shall be ren-
dered on a scire facias, or in any other case, on returns of nihil.
Sec. 3230. On what affidavit order of publication may be entered ; when
and by whom entered.— On affidavit that a defendant-is not a resident of
this state, or that diligence has been used by or on behalf of the plain-
tiff to ascertain in what county or corporation he is, without effect, or
that process, directed to the officer of the county or corporation in which
he resides, or is, has been twice delivered to such officer more than ten
days before the return day, and been returned without being executed,
•r that the defendant, in a suit for a divorce from the bond of matri
mony, is under sentence to confinement in the penitentiary, an order of
publication may be entered against such defendant. And in any suit in
equity, where the bill states that there are or may be persons interested
in the subject to be divided or disposed of, whose names are unknown,
and makes such persons defendants by the general description of parties
unknown, on affidavit of the fact that the said parties are unknown, an
order of publication may be entered against such unknown parties. And
where in a suit in equity the number of the defendants upon whom pro
cess has been served, exceeds thirty, and it appears by the bill, or other
pleading, or exhibits filed, that such defendants represent like interests
with parties who have not been served with process, the court or judge
thereof in vacation may direct that such parties be proceeded against by
order of publication. Every other order of pubfication under this section
may be entered either in court or by the clerk thereof in vacation. In a
proceeding by petition, there may be an order of publication in like
manner as in a suit in equity.
Sec. 3231, What order of publication to state and require; bow published
and posted. When publication in newspaper dispensed with.— Every order
of publication shall give the abbreviated style of the suit, state briefly it*
object, and require the defendants against whom it is entered, or the
unknown parties, to appear within fifteen days after due publication
thereof and do what is necessary to protect their interests. It shall be
published once a week for four successive weeks in such newspaper as
the court may prescribe, or, if none be so prescribed, as the clerk may
direct, and shall be posted by the clerk, at the front door of the court
house of the county or corporation wherein the court is held, on the first
day of the next county or corporation court after it is entered; but the
court or the judge thereof in vacation may, in any case, if the court or
judge deem it proper, dispense with such publication in a newspaper.
Sec. 3232. Within what time, after publication, case tried or heard; no
other publication required, unless ordered by court; when notice, and of
what, to be given to counsel ; provision lor personal service of process. &c,
on non-residents; effect thereof; the return to be made in such ease.—
When such order shall have been so executed, if the defendants against
whom it is entered, or the unknown parties, shall not appear within
fifteen days after the completion of the execution thereof, the case may
be tried or heard as to them ; and no other publication shall be there
after required, in any proceeding in court, or before a commissioner, or
for the purpose of taking depositions, unless specially ordered by the
court as to such defendants or unknown parties ; but if they shall be
represented by counsel residing in this state, reasonable notice of any
proceeding before a commissioner or of the taking of depositions, shall
be given to such counsel, or any of them, if there be more than one.
Personal service of the summons, scire facias, or notice may be made by
any person not a party to or otherwise interested in the subject matter
in controversy, on a non-resident defendant out of this state, which ser
vice shall have the same effect, and no other, its an order of publication
duly executed. In such case, the return must be made under oath, and
must show the time and place of such service, and that the defendant so
served is a non-resident of this state. Upon any trial or hearing under
this section, such judgment, decree, or order shall be entered, as mayappear
just.
Sec. 3233. Within what time case reheard, and any injustice corrected.—
Any unknown party, or other defendant, who was not served with pro
cess, and did not appear in the case before the date of such judgment,
decree, or order, or the representative of any such, may, within three
years from that date, if he be not served with a copy of such judgment,
decree, or order, more than a year before the end of the said three
years, and if lie be so served, then within one year from the time of such
service, petition to have the case reheard, and may plead or answer, and
have any injustice in the proceedings corrected. •
Sec. 3234. When clerk of court of appeals to issue order of publication.—
When by the return of an officer, of process issued to answer an appeal,
writ of error or supersedeas pending in the supreme court of appeals,
or when from affidavit tiled with the clerk of said court, it shall appear
that any appellee or defendant in error is not a resident of the state, or
the name, or the place of residence, of such party, is unknown, so that
process cannot be served upon him, it shall be the duty of such clerk,
in vacation, on application, to issue an order of publication against such
absent or unknown party, requiring him to appear on a day to be desig
nated in said order, to answer the said appeal, writ of error, or superse
ded*.
Sec. 3235. How published and posted; when case heard.— A copy of such
order of publication shall be inserted once a week for four' successive
weeks, in some newspaper to be named therein and posted at the door of
the place of sitting of said court; and when it shall appear, that said
order of publication has been duly published and posted as aforesaid, the
said court may proceed to hear and decide such case, in the same manner
as if the said parties had been personally served with process: Provided
however, that the order of publication shall have been executed as afore
said at least fifteen days before the day on which any such case may be
failed for trial.
Sec 3230. When rules held, and how long continued.— In the clerk's
office of every circuit and corporation court, and of the chancery court of
the city of Richmond, rules shall be hold on the first and third Mondays
in every month, except that when the term of a circuit court, or of the
chancery court of t he city of Richmond, or the term of a corporation
court designated for the trial of civil case3 in which juries are required,
happens to commence on the first or third Monday in a month, or on
either of the two following days, the rules which would otherwise have
been held on the first or third Monday, as the case may be, shall be held
on the Monday of the preceding week. The rules shall continue three
days.
Sec. 3237. Docket in which rules are entered.—There shall be a docket
of the cases at rules, wherein the rules shall be entered ; and the books
in which rules and orders are entered, in chancery cases, shall be sepa
rate from those in which rules and orders are entered in other cases.
Sec. 3238. When there in no clerk to take a rule.— When there is no clerk
to take a rule in a case, it shall stand continued until the next rule day
after there is a clerk. ,
Sec. 3230. Nature of rules; how given.—The rules may be to declare,
plead, reply, rejoin, or for other proceedings; they shall be given from
one rules to the next rules.
Sec. 3240. When defendant may sive rule to file declaration or bill:
when plaintiff non-snited ; damages.— A defendant may appear at the rule
day at which the process against him is returnable, or, if it be returnable
in term, at the first rule day after the return day, and, if the declaration
or bill be not then filed, may give a rule for the plaintiff to file the same.
If the plaintiff fail to do this at the succeeding rule day, or shall, at any
time after the defendant's appearance, fail to prosecute his suit, he shall
be non-suited, and pay to the defendant, besides his costs, five dollars.
Sec. 3241. When clerk to dismiss suit. -If one month elapse after the
, , , „ ,
process is returned executed as to any one or more of the defendant?,
without the declaration or hill being filed, the clerk shall enter the suit
dismissed, although none of the defendants have appeared.
„ Sec. 3242. When fact of defendant's non-residence to be returned, and
suit abated. — When a summons to answer an action or bill is against a
defendant whom the officer (receiving it) knows not to reside in his
county or corporation, he shall, unless he find him therein before the
return day, return him a non-resident : whereupon, if the court from
which such process issued have jurisdiction of the case only on the
ground of such defendant's residence in such county or corporation, (he
suit shall abate as to him.
Sec. 3243. When place of contract, &c, need not be set forth in declaration.
&c; if set forth, how. — It shall not be necessary in any declaration
or other pleading to set forth the place in which any contract was made,
or act done, unless when, from the nature of the ease, the place is material
or traversable, and then the allegation may be as to a deed, note, or other
writing bearing date at any place, t hat it was made at such place, or as to
any other act, according to the fact, without averring or suggesting that it
was at or in the county or corporation in which the action is brought,
unless it was in fact therein.
Sec. 3244. 1'nnecessary to aver jurisdiction, or make nrofert.— It shall
not be necessary, in any action, to aver that the cause of action arose, or
that the matter is, within the jurisdiction of the court, or to make profert
J ' r
of any deed, letters testamentary, or commission of administration; but
a defendant may have oyer in like manner as if profert were made.
Sec. 3245. Allegations not traversable, omitted.— All allegations which
are not traversable, and which the party could not be required to prove,
may be omitted, unless when they are required for the right understand
ing of allegations that are material.
Sec. 324fi. When aetion not to abate for want of form.— No action shall
abate for want of form, where the declaration sets forth sufficient matter
of substance for the court to proceed upon the merits of the cause.
Sec. 3247. In trespass, what general averments omitted. — In actions of
trespass, general averments that the defendant committed other wrongs-,
and that the acts charged were done with force and arms, and against the
peace, may be omitted ; and the plaintiff may prove all that he could
have done if such averments had been inserted in the declaration.
Sec. 3248. When account to be tiled with declaration. —In every action
of asKiuiip«il the plaintiff shall file with bis declaration an account stating
distinctly the several items of his claim, unless it be plainly described in
the declaration.
Sec. 324!). Court may require particulars of claim or defence to be tiled :
if not done, evidence ot, &c., excluded.— In any action or motion, the court
may order a statement to be filed of the particulars of the claim, or of
the ground of defence; and, if a party fail to comply with such order,
may, when the case is tried or heard, exclude evidence of any matter not
described in the notice, declaration, or other pleading of such party, 60
plainly as to give the adverse party notice of its character.
Sec. 3250. When proof of signature to evidence of a release, payment.
&e., not required unless denied by affidavit.— In any action, suit, or other
proceeding wherein a party desires to prove a release, payment, or set off
described in his account of setoffs, and relies on a writing signed by any
person, as evidence thereof, if he file the same among the papers in the
cause, twenty days before the commencement of a term at which there
may be a hearing or trial, and give notice for a like period to the adverse
party, or his attorney, of his intention to rely on such writing as evi
dence as aforesaid, no proof of such signature shall be required, unless
the party objecting shall make affidavit before the trial commences, that
he has good cause to believe, and does believe, that said signature is not
the genuine signature of the person whose signature it purports to be.
If such affidavit be made during the term at which there may be a hear
ing or trial of said cause, the party ottering such writing as evidence shall
be entitled to a continuance at that term.
Sec. 3251. Declaration on policy of insurance.— In an action on a policy
of insurance, if the plaintiff file the policy or a sworn copy thereof with
his declaration, it shall not be necessary, in respect to the conditions
and provisos of such policy, to set forth in the declaration every such
condition and proviso, nor to allege observance thereof or compliance
therewith in particulars; but, iu respect to such conditions and provisos,
it shall be sufficient to refer to the policy or copy and allege, in general
terms, the performance of all its conditions and the violation of none of
its prohibitions.
Sec. 3252. When failure to perform a condition of a policy, or the viola
tion of a provision thereof, not to avail as a defence.— In any action against
an insurance company or other insurer, founded on a policy of insurance
issued after the first day of July, eighteen hundred and seventy-eight, no
failure to perform any condition of the policy, nor violation of any
restrictive provision thereof, shall be a valid defence to such action,
unless it appears that such condition or restrictive provision is printed in
type as large as or larger than that commonly known as long primer
type, or is written with pen and ink in or on the policy.
Sec. .'5253. When plaintiff may amend declaration or bill, or tile amended
bill, &c. ; proceedings thereon.— The plaintiff may of right amend his
declaration or bill before the defendant's appearance, and notwithstanding
such appearance, a plaintiff in equity may, at any time in the vaca
tion of the court wherein the suit is pending, file in the clerk's office an
amended or supplemental bill, or bill of revivor; whereupon, the same
proceedings may be had as if leave to file it had been previously
obtained in court, but the court, on the motion of a defendant, made at
the term to which process to answer the same is returned executed on
him, or, if it be returnable to rules, at the first term after it is so returned,
may dismiss such amended or supplemental bill, or bill of revivor.
Sec. 3254. Proceedings when cross bill is Hied. —When a cross bill is
filed, the defendants in the first bill shall answer it, before the defend-
ants in the cross bill are compelled to answer that.
r
Sec. 3255. Appointment of guardian ad litem for infant or insane defendant
; his dutv. &c. —The proceedings in a suit wherein an infant or insane
person is a party, shall not be stayed because of such infancy or insanity,
but the court in which the suit is pending, or the judge thereof in
vacation, shall appoint some discreet and competent attorney-at-law as
guardian ad litem to such infant or insane defendant, whether such
defendant shall have been served with process or not ; or, if no such attor■
, i ■ ......
ney be found willing to act, the court, or the judge thereof in vacation,
shall appoint some other discreet and proper person as guardian ad litem,
but the person so appointed shall not be liable to costs. Any such guardian
ad litem may also be appointed by the clerk of the court in the vaca-
tion thereof. Every guardian ad litem shall faithfully represent the inter-
est or estate of the infant or insane person for whom he is appointed, and
it shall be the duty of the court to see that the estate of such defendant
is so represented and protected. And the court 01 the judge thereof in
vacation, whenever of opinion, that the interest of an infant or insane
person requires it, shall remove any guardian ad litem and appoint another
in his stead. When, in any case, the court or judge is satisfied that the
guardian ad litem has rendered substantial service to the estate of an
infant or insane defendant, it may allow him reasonable compensation
therefor, and his actual expenses, if any, to be paid out of the estate of
such defendant.
Sec. 3250. Joinder of tenants in common.—Tenants in common may join
or be joined as plaintiffs or defendants.
Sec. 3257. Suing in names of persons who are dead.— Upon any official
bond, executed before this Code takes effect, suit may be maintained (for
the benefit of any person injured by the breach of the condition thereof),
in the names of the judges, justices, or other person to whom such bond
is payable, whether any of the obligees be alive or not, although any jus
tice, to whom the bond is made payable, was not sitting in the court at
the time of its execution, or although any other justice was sitting at that
time.
Sec. 3258. Plea in abatement for misnomer not allowed.— No plea in
abatement for a misnomer shall be allowed in any action, but in a case
wherein, but for this section, a misnomer would have been pleadable in
abatement, the declaration may, on the defendant's motion, and on affi
davit of the right name, be amended by inserting the right name,
Sec. 3259. What defects can be availed of only by plea in abatement.
Amendment of writ, declaration, or return.—In other cases, a defendant,
on whom the process summoning him to answer appears to have been
served, shall not take advantage of any defect in the writ or return,
or any variance in the writ from the declaration, unless the same be
pleaded in abatement. And in every such case the court may permit the
writ or declaration to be amended so as to correct the variance, and per
mit the return to be amended upon such terms as to it shall seem just,
Sec. 3260. How and when exception to jurisdiction to be taken. When
pleas in abatement filed.— Where the declaration or bill shows on its face
proper matter for the jurisdiction of the court, no exception for want of
such jurisdiction shall be allowed, unless it be taken by plea in abatement.
No such plea, nor any other plea in abatement, shall be received after the
defendant hits demurred, pleaded in bar, or answered to the declaration
or bill, nor after a rule to plead, or a conditional judgment or decree ««•'.
Sec. 3261. What to be stated in plea in abatement for non-joinder.— Xo
plea in abatement, for the non-joinder of any person as a co-defendant,
shall be allowed in any action, unless it be stated in the plea that such
person is a resident of this state, and unless the place of residence of
such person be stated with convenient certainty in an affidavit verifying
the plea.
Sec 3262. When issue on such plea, to be found against defendant. -I f a
defendant plead in abatement that any other persons ought to be jointly
sued, and at the trial of an issue joined on such plea, it appear that the
action could not, by reason of chapter one hundred and thirty-three, or chapter one hundred and thirty-nine,, be maintained against such other
persons, or any of them, such issue shall be found against the defendant
so pleading.
Sec. 3263. After such plea how declaration amended; if only part ot
defendants liable, how judgment entered.— After such plea in abatement,
the plaintiff, without proceeding to trial upon an issue thereon, may
amend his declaration, and make the persons, named in such plea as
joint contractors, defendants in the case with the original defendants,
and cause process to be served upon the new defendants; and if it appear
by the subsequent pleadings in the action, or at the trial thereof, that all
the original defendants are liable, but that one or more of the other per
sons named in such plea are not liable, the plaintilf shall be entitled to
judgment, or to verdict and judgment, as the case may be, against the
defendants who appear liable; and such as are not liable shall have
judgment and recover costs as against the plaintiff, who shall be allowed
the same as costs against the defendants who so pleaded.
Sec. 3264. Defendant may plead several matters ; how pleas filed ; which
tried first. —The defendant in any action may plead as many several mat
ters, whether of law or fact, as he shall think necessary, and he may file
pleas in bar at the same time with pleas in abatement, or within a rea
sonable time thereafter, but the issues on the pleas in abatement shall be
first tried.
Sec. 3265. What allegations unnecessary in pleas, &e.— In a plea, repli-
cation, or subsequent pleading, intended to be pleaded in bar, or in main
tenance of the action, it (-hall not be necessary to use any allegation of
"actionem non," or " precludi non," or to the like effect, or any prayer of
judgment.
Sec. 3266. Omission of protestation.— Xo party shall be prejudiced bv
»__*»•• i j-
omitting a protestation in any pleading.
Sec. 3267. How traverses to conclude.— All special traverses, or traverses
with an inducement of affirmative matter, shall conclude to the country.
But this regulation shall not preclude the opposite party from pleading
over to the inducement when the traverse is immaterial.
Sec 3268. How plaintiff may proceed without joinder in demurrer or sim-
ilitor. Duty of clerk to put certain cases on court docket.— When the
plaintiff takes issue on the defendant's pleading, or traverses the same,
r r ™
or demurs, so that the defendant is not let in to allege any new matter,
the plaintiff may, without giving a rule to rejoin, proceed as if there wen'
a timililer or joinder in demurrer. And in any action where, for want of
a plea, an office judgment would have been entered, it shall be the duty
of the clerk, if a plea has been filed, to place such action upon the court
docket ; and in any such action so placed upon the court docket the
pleadings may be matured in court, subject to such terms as to continu
ance as the court in its discretion may impose upon either party.
Sec. 3269. How plea shall commence.— Xo formal defence shall be
required in a plea. It shall commence as follows: "The defendant says
that."
Sec. 3270. After one plea, how another may commence.— It shall not be
necessary to state in a second or other plea, that it is pleaded by leave of
the court, or according to the form of the statute, or to that effect.
Sec. 3271. Form of demurrer or joinder in demurrer. —The form of a
demurrer or joinder in demurrer shall be: "'The defendant (or plain-
tiff) says, that the declaration (or plea, &c.) is not (or is) sufficient in
law."
Sec. 3272. What defects not to be regarded on demurrer.— On a demurrer
(unless it be to a plea in abatement), the court shall not regard any defect
or imperfection in the declaration or pleadings, whether it has been here-
tofore deemed mispleading or insufficient pleading or not, unless then.be
omitted something so essential to the action or defence, that judg-
ment, according to law and the very right of the cause, cannot be given,
Xo demurrer shall be sustained, because of the ommission in any plead-
ing of the words, " this he is ready to verify," or "this he is ready to
verify by the record," or, "as appears by the record;" but the oppositc
party may be excused from replying, demurring, or otherwise answering
to any pleading, which ought to have, but has not, such words therein,
until they be inserted.
Sec. 3273. Argument of demurrer or plea in equity; if overruled, how
defendant proceeded against.— A plaintiff in equity may have any plea or
demurrer set down to be argued. If the same be overruled, no other
plea or demurrer shall afterwards be received, but the defendant may, in
the discretion of the court, be required to answer the bill forthwith, and,
in default thereof, the bill may be taken for confessed, and the matter
thereof decreed ; or the plaintiff may proceed against such defendant in
the maimer prescribed by section thirty-two hundred and eighty-nine.
Sec. 3274. Trial by jury of plea in equity.— A plaintiff in equity may
take issue upon a plea, and either party may have such issue tried by a
jury.
Sec. 3275. When answer may be filed.— At any time before final decree,
a defendant may be allowed to file his answer, but a cause shall not be
sent to the rules or cont inued because an answer is filed in it, unless good
cause be shown therefor.
Sec. 3270. Argument of exceptions to answer.—Avhen the plaintiff files
exceptions to an answer, they shall be set down to be argued.
Sec. 3277. Proceedings, when exceptions sustained.— When exceptions to
an answer have been sustained, if the defendant put in a second answer,
which is adjudged insufficient, he may be examined upon interrogatories,
anil committed until he answers them ; or, on motion of the plaintiff, the
court may strike out the answer, and take the bill for confessed.
Sec. 3278. Plea in abatement and of non est factum, to he verified.— No
plea in abatement or plea of non factum shall be receivecf, unless it be
verified by oath.*
Sec. 327!). When proof of w riting not required, unless denied by affidavit
filed with plea. — Where a bill, declaration, or other pleading alleges that
any person made, endorsed, assigned, or accepted any writing, no proof
of the fact alleged shall be required, unless an affidavit be filed with the
pleading putting it in issue, denying that such endorsement, assignment,
acceptance, or other writing was made by the person charged therewith,
or by any one thereto authorized by him.
Sec. 3280. When, of partnership or incorporation, unless so denied.—
Where plaintiffs or defendants sue or are sued as partners, and their
names are set forth in the declaration or bill, or where plaintiffs or defen
dants sue or are sued as a corporation, it shall not be necessary to prove
the fact of the partnership or incorporation, unless with the pleading
which puts the matter in issue, there be an affidavit denying such
partnership or incorporation.
Sec. 3281. Effect of an answ er as evidence, when oath thereto waived.—
If the complainant in a suit in equity shall, in his bill, waive an answer
under oath, or shall only require an answer under oath, with regard to
certain specified interrogatories, the answer of the defendant, though
under oath, except such part thereof as shall be directly responsive to
such interrogatories, shall not be evidence in his favor, unless the cause
be heard upon bill and answer only ; but may, nevertheless, be used as
an affidavit with the same effect, as heretofore upon a motion to grant or
dissolve any injunction, or upon any other incidental motion in the
cause ; but this shall not prevent a defendant from testifying in his own
behalf, where he would otherwise be a competent witness.
Sec. 3282. Pleadings may be sworn to before clerk; affidavit of belief
sufficient. —Any bill, answer, or other pleading to be tiled in any court,
may be sworn to before the clerk thereof ; and where an affidavit is
required in support of any pleading, it shall be sufficient, if the affiant
swear that he believes it to be true.
Sec. 3283. Judgment or decree by confession in vacation; how entered;
its validity. —In any suit a defendant may, in vacation of the court and
whether the suit be on the court docket or not, confess a judgment or
decree in the clerk's office, for so much principal and interest as the
plaintifF may be willing to accept a judgment or decree for. The same
shall be entered of record by the clerk in the order or minute book, and
be as final and as valid as if entered in court on the day of such confes
sion, except merely thaf the court shall have such control over it as is
given by section thirty-two hundred and ninety-three.
Sec. 3284. Same in office by default; order for inquiry of damages.— If
a defendant, who appears, fail to plead, answer, or demur to the declara-
tion or bill, a rule may be given him to plead. If he fail to appear at the
' J n r 11
rule day at which the process against him is returned executed, or, when
it is returnable to a term, at the first rule day after it is so returned, the
plaintifF, if he has filed his declaration or bill, may have a conditional
judgment or decree nisi as to such defendant. No service of such decree
nisi or conditional judgment shall be necessary. But at the next rule day
after the same is entered, if the defendant continue in default, or at the
expiration of any rule upon him with which he fails to comply, if the
case be in equity, the bill shall be entered as taken for confessed as to
him, and, if it be at law, judgment shall be entered against him, with
an order for the damages to be inquired into, when such inquiry is
proper.
Sec. 3285. In what cases, inquiry of damages unnecessary.— There need
be no such inquiry in any action upon a bond or other writing for the
payment of money, or against the drawer or endorser of a bill °f
exchange or negotiable note, or in an action or scire facias upon 11 judg-
. , . .,
ment or recognizance, or in any action upon an account, wherein the
plaintiff shall serve the defendant, at the same time and in the same
manner that the process or summons to commence the suit or action is
served, with a copy (certified by the clerk of the court in which the suit
or action is brought) of the account on which the suit or action is
brought, stating distinctly the several items of his claim, and the aggre
gate amount thereof, and the time from which he claims interest thereon,
and the credits, if any, to which the defendant may bo entitled. But
this section shall not apply to any action on an account in which the pro
cess is served by publication.
Sec. 3286. When, in action of assumpsit, no plea in bar to be received, or
inquiry of damages made, unless defendant lile with plea affidavit denying
plaintiff's claim, but judgment given therefor.— In an action of assumpsit
on a contract, express or implied, for the payment of money (except
where the process to answer the action has been served by publication),
if the plaintiff file with his declaration an affidavit made by himself or
his agent, stating therein, to the best of the affiant's belief the amount
of the plaintiff's claim, that such amount is justly due, and the time from
which the plaintiff claims interest, no plea in bar shall be received in
the case, either at rules or in court, unless the defendant file with his
plea the affidavit of himself or his agent, that the plaintiff is not entitled,
as the affiant verily believes, to recover anything from the defendant on
such claim, or stating a sum certain less than that set forth in the affi
davit filed by the plaintiff, which, as the affiant verily believes, is all
that the plaintiff is entitled to recover from the defendant on such claim.
If such plea and affidavit be not filed by the defendant, there shall be
no inquiry of damages, but judgment shall be for the plaintiff for the
amount claimed in the affidavit filed with his declaration. If such plea
and affidavit be filed, and the affidavit admits that the plaintiff is enti
tled to recover from the defendant a sum certain less than that stated in
the affidavit filed by the plaintiff, judgment may be taken by the plain
tiff for the sum so admitted to be due, and the case be tried as to the
residue.
Sec. 3287. When judgment entered in office to become final ; bow entered;
its effect as a lien. —Every judgment entered in the office in a case
wherein there is no order for an inquiry of damages, and every non-suit
or dismission entered therein, shall, if not previously set aside, become a
final judgment, if the case be in a circuit court, of the last day of the
next term, or the fifteenth day thereof (whichever shall happen first),
or, if the case be in the circuit court of the city of Richmond, and be
matured at the rules and docketed during the term of the court, of the
last day of the said term, and, if it be in a corporation court, of the last
day of the next term designated for the trial of civil cases in which
juries are required, and have the same effect by way of lien or otherwise
as a judgment rendered in the court at such term. Every such judgment
for any plaintiff shall be for the principal sum due, with interest thereon
from the time it became payable (or commenced bearing interest) till
payment, unless it be in such action as is mentioned in section twentyeight
hundred and fifty-three, in which case it shall be according to that section : Provided, that no judgment by default, on a scire facias or sum
mons, shall become final within two weeks after the service of such
process.
Sec. 3288. VVben and how a judgment entered in the office set aside ;
when issue to be tried.— If a defendant against whom a judgment is
entered in the office, whether an order for an inquiry of damages has
been made therein or not, shall, before it becomes final, appear and plead
to issue, and shall, in the cases mentioned in section thirty-two hundred
and eighty-six, in which an affidavit is required, file such affidavit with
his plea, the judgment shall be set aside, unless an order for inquiry of
damages has been executed ; in which case, it shall not be set aside with
out good cause. Any such issue may be tried at the same term, unlea
the defendant show good cause for a continuance.
Sec. 3289. Although bill taken for confessed, plaintiff may still proceed
against defendant by attachment, &c—Although a bill be taken for con
fessed as to any defendant, the plaintiff may have an attachment against
him, or an order for him to be brought in to answer interrogatories. No
plea or demurrer shall be received after such attachment, unless by order
of court, upon motion.
Sec. 3290. Enforcement of process of contempt—If a defendant, after
process of contempt, put in an answer which is adjudged insufficient, the
plaintiff may go on with the subsequent process of contempt as if no
answer had been filed.
Sec. 3291. When suit in equity set for hearing.— A plaintiff in equity
may, at or after the rule day at which the bill is taken for confessed as to
any defendant, or at which his answer is filed, or whenever the execution
of an order of publication against him is completed, have the cause set
, . , , „ , , ' ,.2
for hearing as to such defendant ; and it may be so set for hearing on the
answer, or upon a general replication thereto, as the plaintiff may prefer.
If one month elapse after the answer of a defendant is filed, without the
case being so set, and without exceptions being filed as to his answer, he
may have the case set for hearing as to himself.
Sec. 3292. When suit in equity beard as to part of defendants; how
plaintiff compelled to mature his cause or have it dismissed; how court may
make new parties to suit— If a suit in equity be set fur hearing as to any
defendant, it shall be heard as to him, unless his interests be so con
nected with those of other defendants in the suit that it would be
improper to decide upon their interests separately ; and though there be
such connection, a defendant, as to whom the case has been set for hear
ing, may have an order upon the plaintiff to use due diligence to mature
the cause for hearing as to the other defendants, and unless it be so
matured within such time as the court may deem reasonable, shall be
entitled to a hearing or dismission of it as to him ; and, in any case
where full justice cannot be done, or the whole controversy ended, with
out the presence of new parties to the suit, the court, by order, may
direct the clerk to issue the proper process against such new parties, and
upon the maturing of the case as to them, proceed to make such orders
or decrees as would have been proper if the new parties had been made
parties at the commencement of the suit.
Sec. 3293. Control by court over proceedings in office.— The court shall
have control over all proceedings in the office during the preceding vaca-
tion. It may reinstate any cause discontinued during such vacation, set
aside any of the said proceedings, or correct any mistake therein, and
. , _ ... 1
make such order concerning the same as may be just.
Sec. 3294. When action of account may be maintained.—An action of
account may be maintained against the personal representative of any
guardian, bailiff, or receiver, and also by one joint tenant or tenant in
, * . . , , . ,
common, or his personal representative, against the other as bailiff, for
receiving more than comes to his just share or proportion, and against
the personal representative of any such joint tenant or tenant in
common.
Sec. 3295. Payment before action brought may be pleaded.—In any action
of debt, the defendant may plead payment of the debt (or of so much as
is due by the condition) before action brought.
Sec. 32%. Defendant may pay into court a sum on account of matter of
suit, and plead that plaintiff is not entitled to more.— Ii\ any personal
action, the defendant may pay into court, to the clerk, a sum of money
on account of what is claimed, or by way of compensation or amends,
and plead that he is not indebted to the plaintiff (or that the plaintiff
has not sustained damages) to a greater amount than the said sum.
Sec. 3297. Proceedings thereupon.—The plaintiff may accept the said
sum either in full satisfaction, and then have judgment for his costs, or
in part satisfaction, and reply to the plea generally, and, if issue thereon
be found for the defendant, judgment shall be given for the defendant,
and he shall recover his costs.
Sec. 329S. Payment or setoff may be allowed, if described in plea or
account; when allowed, though claim against several, and debt only to part
of them. — In a suit for any debt, the defendant may at the trial prove,
and have allowed against such debt, any payment or setoff which is so
described in his plea, or in an account filed therewith, as to give the
plaintiff notice of its nature, but not otherwise. Although the claim of
the plaintiff be jointly against several persons, and the setoff is of a debt
not to all but only to a part of them, this section shall extend to such set
off, if it appear that the persons, against whom such claim is, stand in
the relation of principal and surety, and the person entitled to the set
off is the principal.!
Sec. 3299. Special plea of setoff.—In any action on a contract, the
defendant may file a plea, alleging any such failure in the consideration
of the contract, or fraud in its procurement, or any such breach of any
warranty to him of the title or the soundness of personal property, for
the price or value whereof he entered into the contract, or any other
matter as would entitle him either to recover damages at law from the
plaintiff, or the person under whom the plaintiff claims, or to relief in
equity, in whole or in part, against the obligation of the Contract; or, if
the contract be by deed, alleging any such matter arising under the contract,
existing before its execution, or any such mistake therein, or in the
execution thereof, or any such other matter as would entitle him to such
relief in equity; and in either case alleging the amount to which he is
entitled by reason of the matters contained in the plea. Every such plea
shall be verified by affidavit.
Sec. 3300. Proceedings thereupon; effect of plea 011 relief in equity.— If a
defendant, entitled to such plea as is mentioned in the preceding section,
shall not tender it, or though he tender it, if it be rejected for not being
offered in due time, he shall not be precluded from such relief in equity
as he would have been entitled to if the preceding section had not been
enacted. If, when an issue in fact is joined thereon, such issue be found
against the defendant, he shall be barred of relief in equity upon the
matters alleged in the plea, unless upon such ground as would entitle a
party to relief against a judgment in other cases. Every such issue in
fact shall be upon a general replication that the plea is not true ; and the
plaintiff may give in evidence, on such issue, any matter which could be
given in evidence under a special replication if such replication were
allowed.
Sec. 3301. Effect of chapter on voluntary bonds.—Nothing in this chapter
shall impair or affect the obligation of any bond or other deed
deemed voluntary in law upon any party thereto, or his representatives.
Sec. 3302. If plea or setoff goes to part only of demand, how case pro-
ceeded in. —If the defendant file a plea or account of setoff, which covers
or applies to part of the plaintiff's demand, judgment may be forthwith
rendered for the part not controverted, and the costs accrued until the
filing of the plea or account, and the ease shall be proceeded with for the
residue, as if the part for which judgment was rendered had not been
included therein. And if, in addition to such plea or account, the defend
ant plead some other plea, going to the whole or residue of the demand,
the case shall not be continued as to the part not controverted by the
plea or account of setoffs, unless good cause be shown for such continu
ance.
Sec. 3303. Defendant, claiming setoff, put on footing of a plaintiff.— A
defendant who files a plea or account under this chapter, shall be deemed
to have brought an action, at the time of filing such plea or account,
against the plaintiff, and, if he be assignee or transferree, also against
the person with whom the contract sued on was originally made and
under whom the plaintiff claims, according to their respective interests,
for the matters mentioned in such plea or account, and the plaintif
shall not, after the plea or account is filed, dismiss his case, without the
defendant's consent, but the defendant's claim shall be open to the same
ground of defence to which it would have been open in any action
brought by him thereon.
Sec. 3304. Other proceedings.— Other proceedings shall be as follows:
First, If plaintiff is the person, or, &c, with whom the contract was
made, how setoff applied and judgment given.— If the plaintiff be a per
son with whom the contract sued on was originally made, or the personal
representative of such person, on the trial of the case, the jury shall
ascertain the amount to which the defendant is entitled, and apply it as
a setoff against the plaintiff's demand, and, if the said amount be more
than the plaintiff is entitled to, shall ascertain the excess, and fix the
time from which interest is to be computed on the same, or any part
thereof. Judgment, in such case, shall be for the defendant against the
plaintiff for said excess, with such interest from the said time till pay
ment ;
Second, If he is assignee of snch person, and defendant's claim exceeds
plaintiff's demand, defendant may waive for the excess.— If the plaintiff
claims as assignee or transferree under a person with whom the contract
sued on was originally made, and the defendant's claim exceeds the
plaintiff's demand, the defendant, in his plea or in a writing filed with
his account, may waive the benefit of his claim as to any excess beyond
the plaintiff's claim, whereupon, the further proceedings shall be upon
the plaintiff's claim and the defendant's counter claim as a defence
thereto; or, instead of such waiver,
Third, He may have person under whom plaintiff claims made a party,
and obtain judgment against hiin for such excess.— Such defendant may,
by rule issued by the court, or, on his application, issued by the clerk of
the court in vacation, or by reasonable notice in writing, such rule or
notice substantially stilting the defendant's claim, make the person, under
whom the plaintiff claims as aforesaid, a party to the suit; and, on the
trial of the case, the jury shall ascertain and apply, as provided in the first
sub-division of this section, the amount and interest to which the defend
ant is entitled ; and, for any excess beyond the plaintiff's demand for
which such person under whom the plaintiff claims as aforesaid is liable,
with such interest as the jury allows, judgment shall be rendered for the
defendant against such person.
Sec. 3305. When death, or, &&, occurs after verdict and before judgmcnt,
how judgment entered. —Where a party dies, or becomes convict of
felony, or in«me, or a female party marries, or the powers of a party who
is a personal representative or committee cease, if such fact occur after
verdict, judgment may be entered as if it had not occurred.
Sec. 3306. Where it occurs as to any of several plaintiffs or defendants
in a gait, the cause of which survives, how suit to proceed. How, on death
of a joint defendant.— Where such fact occurs in any stage of a cause,
• °
whether it be in a court of original or appellate jurisdiction, if it occur as
to any of several plaintiffs or defendants, the suit may proceed for or
against the others, if the cause of suit survive to or against them ; and
no suit (unless it be a personal action which dies with the person) shall
abate as to a party sued jointly with another, who shall die during the
pendency of such 6uit, but in all cases where such suit would have
abated, the same may be revived against the personal representative of
the decedent, and proceed thenceforward as a separate action against
such personal representative, as though such decedent had been a sole
defendant.
Sec. 3307. Where it occurs after appeal, &c, how judgment or decree
entered. — If, during the pendency of an appeal, writ of error, or supersecU'as,
the death of a party, or any other fact, which, if it had occurred
after verdict in an action, would not have prevented judgment being
entered, be suggested or relied on in abatement in the appellate court,
the said court may, in its discretion, enter judgment or decree in the
•case, as if such death or other fact had not occurred.
Sec. 3308. For and against whom scire facias may be sued out ; when snit
revived on motion ; when new party may have continuance or amend plead-
ings. — In any stage of any case, a scire facias may be sued out for or
against the committee of any party who is insane or convict, or for or
agaiast a person before insane, the powers of whose committee have
ceased, or for or against the husband of any such female party, or for or
against the personal representative of the decedent who or whose per.
... <■ > .
sonal representative was a party, or for or against the heirs or devisees of
a decedent who was a party, to show cause why the suit should not pro
ceed in the name of him or them ; or where the party dying, or whose
powers cease, or such insane person, convict, or female is plaintiff or
appellant, the person or persons for whom such scire facias might be sued
out may, without notice or scire facias, move that the suit proceed in his
or their name. In the former case, after service of the scire facias, or, in
the latter case, on such motion, if no sufficient cause be shown against
it, an order shall be entered that the suit proceed according to such scire
facias or motion. Any such new party (except in an appellant court)
may have a continuance of the case at the term at which such order is
entered ; and the court may allow him to plead anew or amend the
pleadings so far as it deems reasonable, but in other respects the ease
shall proceed to final judgment or decree for or against him, in like
manner as if the case had been pending for or against him before such
scire facias or motion.
Sec. 3309. Scire facias may be issued in vacation, and order of revival
entered at rules. —The clerk of the court, in which the case is, may issue
such scire facias at any time, and an order may be entered at rules for a
case to proceed in the name of the proper party, although the case be on
the court docket.
Sec. 3310. Where party, whose powers cease, is defendant, how suit pro
ceeded in. —Where the party whose powers cease is defendant, the plain
tiff may continue his suit against him to final judgment or decree ; but he
shall not, at law, proceed in the same action against such defendant and
his successor ; nor shall he, in equity, proceed against both upon his pre
vious bill, unless an order, that the suit proceed against the former party,
be entered at the first term after service of a scirefacias for or against such
successor.
Sec. 3311. When discontinued, unless revived.— If the committee, hus
band, personal representative, heirs, or devisees of the plaintiff or appel
lant who was a party, or of the decedent whose personal representative
was plaintiff or appellant, shall not make such motion, or apply for such
scire facias, at or before the second term of the court next after that at
which there may have been a suggestion on the record of the fact making
such scire facias or motion proper, the suit of such plaintiff or appellant
shall be discontinued, unless good cause be shown to the contrary.
Sec. 3312. When for Ave years no proceeding in a case but to continue it.
court may strike it from the docket.— A ny court in which is pending a case
wherein for more than five years there has been no order or proceeding
except to continue it, may, in its discretion, order it to be struck from its
docket ; and it shall thereby be discontinued. A court making such order
may direct it to be published in such newspaper as it may designate.
Any such case may be reinstated, on motion, within one year from the
date of such order, but not after.
Sec. 3313. Decree in a suit, where number of parties exceeds thirty, and
one of them dies or marries. —When, in any suit in equity, the number of
parties exceeds thirty, and any one of said parties jointly interested with
others in any question arising therein, shall die or marry, the court may,
notwithstanding, if in its opinion all classes of interests are represented
and no one will be prejudiced thereby, proceed to render a decree in such
suit as if such party were alive or had not married ; decreeing to the heirs,
devisees, legatees, distributees, or personal representatives, as the
may be, such interest as the deceased person, if alive, would bo entitled
to, and, in case of a marriage, decreeing as though no marriage had taken
place during the pendency of the suit.
Sec. 3314. Right of absent party to rehearing.—The provisions of section
thirty-two hundred and thirty-three, shall apply to decrees entered under
the preceding section.
CHAPTER CLXII.
OF THE REMOVAL OF CAUSES PENDING IN ONE COURT TO ANOTHER.
Sec. | Sec.
3315. Removal by county court, on mo- 3317. Removal by courts, or (heir judges,
tion, after notice, of suits, Ac, j without motion or notice, of suits,
pending therein Ac. which it is improper lor them
3316. Removal by circuit and corporation 1 to try.
courts, or their Judges, on mo- 3318. Duty when suit ordered to be re-
tion, after notice, of suits, Ac, moved ; proceedings in court to
pending in said courts. which it is removed; costs at
tending removal.
Sec. 3315. Removal liy county court, on motion, after- notice, of suits, &c,
pending therein.— A county court wherein a suit, motion, or other civil
proceeding is ponding, may, on the motion of any party, after twenty
days' notice to the adverse party or his attorney, order the removal of
the case to any other convenient county court, or to the circuit court to
which, if it had been decided, it might have been taken on appeal, writ
of error, or mpermlra*.
Sec. 3316. Removal by circuit and corporation courts, or their judges, on
motion, after notice, of suits, &c, pending in said courts.— On like motion
and after like notice, a circuit court or the judge thereof in vacation, may
order any suit, motion, or other civil proceeding pending therein to be
'
removed to any other circuit or corporation court, and a corporation
court, or the judge thereof in vacation, may order any suit, motion, or
other civil proceeding pending therein to be removed to any other cor
poration or circuit court: Provided, that any suit, motion, or other civil
proceeding m the corporation court of the city of Alexandria, shall be
removed as of right to the circuit court having jurisdiction over such
corporation, on the motion of any party thereto, but twenty days' notice
of the motion for such removal shall be given to the adverse party, or
his attorney.
Sec. 3317. Removal by courts, or their judges, without motion or notice,
of suits, &c, which it is improper for them to try.— If the judge of any
county, circuit, or corporation court in which a suit, motion, or other
civil proceeding is pending, is so situated as to render it improper in his
opinion for him to decide such case or preside at the trial thereof, such
court or the judge thereof in vacation, may, without motion or notice,
order the case to be removed to any court to which it might be removed,
on motion and notice, under the two preceding sections.
Sec. 3318. Clerk's duty, when suit ordered to be removed ; proceedings in
court to which it is removed ; costs attending removal.— When any case is
ordered to be removed, under this chapter, the clerk of the court from
which, shall transmit to the clerk of the court to which, it is removed,
the original papers therein, with the copies of all rules and orders made,
and a statement of the costs incurred by each party therein ; whereupon,
the case shall be proceeded in, heard, and determined by the court to
which it is removed, as if it had been brought, and the previous pro
ceedings had, in said court. The costs attending such removal shall be
charged as may be thought just by the court from which, or if it make
no order on the subject, by the court to which, the case is removed.
CHAPTER CLXIII.
OF THE APPOINTMENT OF COMMISSIONERS IN CHANCERY, THE REFERENCE OF
ACCOUNTS TO THEM, AND THE PROCEEDINGS THEREON.
.S'rc.
3319.
3320.
3321.
Appointment and removal of com
missioners by circuit find corpora
tion courts; their number.
How accounts referred; commis
sioner's duty.
When publication of notice equiva
lent to per.-onal service.
Commissioner may ask instructions
of court or its Judge.
Sec.
3323. His power to adjourn his proceed
ings.
3324. How his report to be made out;
what return with it; when liable
for costs.
3325. When cause heard on report.
3326. Delivery of original papers of suit
by clerk to commissioner.
Sec. 3319. Appointment and removal of commissioners by circuit and cor
poration courts; their number.— Each circuit court, and each corporation
court having chancery jurisdiction, or the judges thereof in vacation,
shall, from time to time, appoint commissioners in chancery, who shall
be removable at pleasure. There shall be not more than four such com
missioners in office at the same time for the same court, except that the
chancery court of the city of Richmond may have seven, and the corpo
ration courts and the circuit courts of the counties of Augusta, Pittsylva
nia, Loudoun, Kockingham, Louisa, and Chesterfield, may each have five
in office at the same time. The commissioners appointed by the circuit
court of Henrico county shall reside within the jurisdiction of said court.
Sec. 3320. How accounts referred; commissioner's duty.— Accounts to be
taken in any case, shall be referred to a commissioner so appointed,
unlea« the jiarties interested agree, or the court shall deem it proper, that
they be referred to some other person. Every commissioner shall exam
ine, and rejjort* upon, such accounts and matters as may be referred to
him by any court.
Sec. 3321. When publication of notice equivalent to personal service.—
^,^e cour^ or tno judge thereof in vacation, ordering an account to be
taken, may direct that notice, of the time and jtlace of taking it, be pub
lished once a week for four successive weeks in some convenient news-
paper, and that such publication shall be equivalent to personal service
of such notice on the parties, or any of them.
Sec. 3322. Commissioner may ask instructions of court or its judge.— A
commissioner, who, in taking an account to be returned to a court,
doubts as to any point which arises before him, may, in writing, submit
the point to such court, or the judge thereof in vacation, who may
instruct him thereon.
Sec. 3323. His power to adjourn his proceedings. —A commissioner may
adjourn his proceedings from time to time, after the day to which notice
was given, without any new notice, until his report is completed ; and,
when it is completed, it may be filed in the clerk's office at any time
thereafter.
Sec. 3324. How his report to be made out; what return with it; when
liable for costs. — With his report, the commissioner shall return the
decrees, orders, and notices under which he acted. . He shall not copy in
his account or report any paper; and, if there has been a previous
account, he shall not copy it into his ; but, taking it as the basis of his,
correct the errors and supply the defects thereof by an additional state
ment. Every thing improperly copied into a commissioner's account
shall be expunged at his costs, on the application of either party ; and, if
on account of his negligence or misconduct, a report be recommitted, he
shall bear the costs occasioned thereby.
Sec. 332"). When cause heard on report. —A cause may be heard upon a
commissioner's report, after it shall have been returned ten days; and,
if the report be under an order recommitting a former report, the cause
may be heard without waiting the said ten days.
Sec 332(1. Delivery of original papers of suit by clerk to commissioner.
The clerk of a court in which a suit in equity is pending, shall, upon the
request of any commissioner in chancery, who has before him for execu
tion an order or decree made in such suit, deliver to him the original
papers thereof; and it shall not be necessary for the clerk to copy the
said papers, nor shall he charge any fee for copies of any of them, unless
the same be specially ordered. The commissioner to whom such papers
may be delivered, shall give his receipt therefor, and return the paper*
as speedily as possible to the office of the clerk of the court.
Sec. 3327. Hening's statutes, this Code, the several editions of previous
rjodes, &c>) an<| printed copies of acts and resolutions of General Assembly,
to be evidence.— The thirteen volumes of t he statutes of Virginia from
sixteen hundred and nineteen to seventeen hundred and ninety-two,
heretofore published by William Waller Hening, and to which reference
is made in certain acts of the General Assembly, passed on the fifth day
of February, eighteen hundred and eight, twelfth of February, eighteen
hundred and thirteen, and tenth of March, eighteen hundred and nine
teen ; this Code and the several editions of the Code of laws and of
supplements to, or continuations of, the Code, authorized by or referred
to in the acts of Assembly passed the twenty-eighth of December, seven
teen hundred and ninety-two, twenty -sixth of January, eighteen hundred
and two, seventh of January, eighteen hundred and seven, tenth of
February, eighteen hundred and twelve, twelfth of March, eighteen hun
dred and nineteen, twenty-first of February, eighteen hundred and
thirty-five, and the sixteenth of August, eighteen hundred and forty-
nine ; printed copies of the acts and resolutions of the General Assembly
since seventeen hundred and ninety-two, heretofore published, or which
may hereafter be published for the commonwealth ; and any other copies
of the said acts and resolutions since seventeen hundred and ninety-two,
which have been or may be published by the public printer for the time
being, shall be received as evidence in the courts of this state, for any
purpose for which the original acts or resolutions could be received, ami
with as much effect.
Sec. 3328. Also, acts and resolutions of General Assembly, though local
or private; judicial notice by appellate court.— Acts and resolutions of the
General Assembly, though local or private, may be given in evidence
without being specially pleaded ; and an appellate court shall take
judicial notice of such as appear to have been relied on in the court
below.
Sec. 3329. Also, journal of either house.— Copies of the journal of each
house of the Assembly, printed as prescribed in the nineteenth chapter,
shall be received as evidence for any purpose for which the original
journal could be received.
Sec. 3330. Also, statutes of United States, or of any state or territory. —
Copies of the statutes of the United States printed by authority of the
United States, and copies of the statutes of anv state or territory of the
. , _ . , , , , , . ,
United States, printed by authority of such state or territory, may be
received as prima facie evidence of such statutes in any suit or proceed-
ing in this state.
Sec. 3331. Also, ordinances of municipal corporations.— A copy of any
ordinance or joint resolution of a municipal corporation in this state, certified
by the clerk or secretary of the corporation, or a printed copy
thereof which purports to have been printed by the authority of the
corporation, shall be received as prima fane evidence for any purpose for
which the original ordinance or joint resolution could be received.
Sec. 3332. Notice by courts and officers of signatures of judges and Governor.
—All courts and officers shall take notice of the signature of any
of the judges, or of the Governor of this state, to any judicial or ofiicial
document.
Sec. 3333. Copies of certain deeds to be evidence. —Copies of deeds, acknowledged
or proved and certified according to the act of the thirteenth
December, seventeen hundred and ninety -two, and placed upon record
after the expiration of two years, the period prescribed by the act of the
twenty-fifth December, seventeen hundred and ninety-four, but before
100
the passage, of the act of seventh February, eighteen hundred and four
teen, shall be received in evidence, and have all the force and effect of
copies of deeds recorded within two years, the period prescribed as afore
said: Provided, that nothing in this section shall be construed so as to
affect the rights of creditors and subsequent purchasers without notice.
Sec. 3334. Also, eopies of records or papers in clerk's office of any conrt
of the state, or in the public offices thereof, or certificate of Auditor in cer
tain cases. —A copy of any record or paper in the clerk's ollice of any
court, or in the office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth, Treasurer,
Register, either Auditor, Railroad Commissioner, Commissioner of Agri-
culture, or the State Assayer and Chemist, attested by the officer in
whose office the same is ; and a copy of any record or p iper in the oflice
of the Board of Public Works, or the Board of Education, or the board
of supervisors of any county, attested by the secretary or clerk of such
board and a copy of any record or p iper in the office of surveyor of
landsof any county, attested by the surveyor in whose oflice the same is;
may be admitted as evidence in lieu of the original, but, for good cause
shown, the original records in the office of the surveyor of lands of any
county may be required to be produced. And the certificate of the
Auditor of Public Accounts of the fact and time of the return of any
real estate as delinquent, or of the sale thereof for taxes, shall be prima
facie evidence of what is stated in such certificate. Any such copy or
certificate, purporting to be sealed, or sealed and signed, or signed alone,
by any such officer, secretary, or clerk, may be admitted as evidence,
without any proof of the seal or signature, or of the official character of
the person whose name is signed to it. The certificate of the Auditor of
Public Accounts of the payment or non-payment, at any time, of taxes on
forfeited or delinquent lands, or lots, or of their not having been entered
on the books of the commissioner of the revenue for the county or city,
shall, in any suit or proceeding in relation to such lands or lots, be prima
facie evidence of what is stated in such certificate, provided it be tiled
with the papers of said suit at least twenty days before the first day of
the term at which it is to be offered as evidence. When the certificate pur
ports to be signed by the said Auditor, it maybe admitted as evidence
without proof of his signature.
Sec. 3335. Also, copies of records or papers in clerk's office of any conrt ol
West Virginia, or in the public offices thereof, or certificate of its Auditor in
certain cases. —A copy of any record or paper in the clerk's oflice of any
court in the state of West Virginia, or in the office of the Secretary of
State, Treasurer, Auditor, or surveyor of lands in any county in that state,
attested by the officer in whose office the same is, may be admitted as
evidence in lieu of the original. The certificate of the Auditor of that
state as to the return of any real estate as delinquent, or the sale thereof
for taxes, or payment or non-payment of taxes on forfeited or delinquent
lands, or non-entry of lands on the books of the assessors, shall, in any
suit in relation to such lands, be prima facie evidence of what is stated in
such certificate, provided it be filed with the papers in such suit and notice
thereof be given to the opposite party or his attorney, at least forty days
before the first day of the term at which it is to be offered as evidence.
Any such copy or certificate purporting to be sealed, or signed and sealed,
or signed alone, by any such officer, may be admitted as evidence with
out any proof of the seal or signature, or of the official character of the
person w:hose name is signed to it.
Sec. 3336. When eopy filed in one suit may be filed in another.— Such a copy
of any writing, filed in a suit, may be filed in another suit on the same
writing, and the defendant shall plead thereto as if the original was filed.
Sec. 3337. When court may deliver out original paper, retaining a copy.
The court in the clerk's office whereof there is un original paper filed in
a cause (although decided) may, for good cause, order it to be delivered
to any person, retaining in its stead a copy thereof, and may make any
order to prevent the improper use of the original.
•Sec. 3338. When a book, containing judgments, decrees, &c, of a court, is
lost or illegible, how matters therein re-entered.— Where any book, contain
ing judgments, decrees, or proceedings of a court, is last or illegible, and
there can be again entered correctly, by means of any writing, any mat
ters which were in such book, such court may cause its clerk to have such
matters re-entered, and such re-entries shall have the same effect as the
original entries. For any services of the clerk under this section not ren
dered necessary by his own neglect, the court shall allow him a reasonable
compensation, which shall be chargeable on the county or corporation.
Sec. 3330. When a book or paper in a clerk's office is lost or illegible,
how new record made.—Where any such book, or any book containing
the record of wills, deeds, or other papers, or where any paper filed in a
clerk's office, is lost or is illegible, the clerk in who3e office such book
or paper was, upon the production to him of any original paper which
was recorded in such book, or of an attested copy of the record thereof,
or of anything else in such book, or of any paper so filed, shall, on appli
cation, record the same anew. The record shall show whether it is made
from an original or a copy, and how the paper from which it was made
was authenticated or attested. Such record shall have, as far as may be,
the same effect that the record or paper for which it is substituted would
have had.
Sec. 3340. How contents of such record or paper proved before commis-
sioner. —Any person desirous of proving the contents of any paper so
filed, or anything which was of record in any such book, may file with a
commissioner, to be appointed for this special purpose for each county
and corporation by the circuit court of the county, or the circuit or cor
poration court of the corporation, or the judge thereof in vacation, a
petition in writing, stating the nature of the paper or record, the contents
of which he desires to prove, and what persons may be affected by such
proof. Whereupon the commissioner shall appoint a time and place for
proceeding on the said petition, whereof reasonable notice shall be given
to all parties named in said petition, or interested in the proceeding, and
to any others, who shall be known to the commissioner, or who shall
claim, to be so interested. If any such party interested be an infant,
insane person, or married woman, the said commissioner shall appoint a
guardian ad litem to attend to the case on behalf of such party. If the
commissioner appointed under this section be interested in any ease, the
judge may appoint a special commissioner to act in that particular case.
If any person who may be affected by the proof be an infant, the com
missioner shall appoint a guardian ad litem to attend to the case on his
behalf.
Sec. 3341. How evidence of the witnesses tiiken ; commissioner to keep a
journal and return it and evidence to court; order to be made by court. —
The said commissioner shall, at the instance of any person interested,
take, in writing, the evidence of all witnesses who may be produced
before him, or whom he may think it necessary to examine. He shall
keep a journal of his proceedings in each case, which he shall return,
with the evidence taken by him, or filed before him, with such explana
tions and comments as he may deem necessary, to the circuit court of
the county, or the circuit or corporation court of the corporation, in which
the book or paper mentioned in the petition was, at its next term ; and
the court shall make such order in respect to the said book or paper, or
anything therein, as may be necessary to secure the benefits thereof to
the parties interested, or such other order as may be proper in the case.
The provisions of sections thirty-three hundred and twenty-three and
thirty-three hundred and twenty-five, shall be applicable to such
reports. The commissioner, for his services under this and the last pre
ceding section, shall be allowed the same fees that are allowed to com
missioners in chancery.
Sec. 3342. Records and proceedings of a court of another state, or of the
United States, how authenticated.— The records and judicial proceedings
of any court of the United States, or of any state, attested by the clerk
thereof, with the seal of the court annexed, if there be a seal, and certi-
fled by the judge, chief justice, or presiding magistrate of such court, to
be attested in due form, shall have such faith and credit given to them
in every court within this state, as they have in the courts of the state,
territory, or district whence the said records come.*
Sec. 3343. Records and exemplification of office books in a pnblic office
of United States or of a state, not pertaining to a court.— All records and
exemplifications of office books kept in any public office of the United
States, or of a state, not appertaining to a court, shall be evidence in any
court or office in this state, if attested by the keeper of the said records
or books, and the seal of his office annexed, if there be a seal, and cer
tified by any judge of a court of record in the county, city, town, or dis
trict in which such office is, or of the Governor, the Secretary of State,
the chancellor, or the keeper of the great seal of the state, to be attested
in due form, and by the proper officer. Such certificate, if given by the
judge of a court, shall be authenticated by the clerk or prothonotary of the
said court, who shall certify under his hand and the seal of his office, that
the said judge is duly commissioned and qualified ; or if said certificate
be given by the Governor, the Secretary of State, the chancellor, or
keeper of the great seal, it shall be under the great seal of the state in
which the said certificate is made.
Sec. 3344. Foreign deeds, powers of attorney, policies of insurance, &c—
Every deed or power of attorney executed out of this state, the
acknowledgment or proof of which is certified so that it might be
admitted to record under chapter one hundred and eleven, and every
policy of insurance, charter party, copy from a record in any foreign
court, or from a register of births and marriages in any place out of the
United States, if it be attested by a notary, under his seal of office, that
such policy, charter party, record, or register was made, entered, or kept
in due form according to the law of the place in which it was made,
entered, or kept, and that such copy is true, and the official character of
such notary be certified to by any court of record, or t he mayor or other
chief magistrate of any county, city, town, or borough, or under the
great seal of the state, kingdom, province, island, or colony, in which
such notary may reside, shall be evidence in any court in this state.
Sec. 3345. No person incompetent to testify by reason of interest, or
because a party.— No person shall be incompetent to testify because of
interest; or because of his being a party to any action, suit, or proceed
ing of a civil nature; but he shall, if otherwise competent to testify,
and subject to the rules of evidence and practice applicable to other wit
nesses, be competent to give evidence in his own behalf and be competent
and compellable to attend and give evidence on behalf of any other
party to such action, suit, or proceeding; but, in any case at law, the
court, for good cause shown, may require any such person to attend and
testify ore tenus and, upon his failure to so attend and testify, may
exclude his deposition.
Sec. 3346. Qualifications of preceding section.— The preceding section
is subject to the following qualifications :
First, Of husband and wife, and witnesses to deeds and wills.—The com
petency of husband and wife* as witnesses for or against each other
during the coverture or after its termination, and the competency of
attesting witnesses to wills, deeds, and other instruments, shall be deter
mined by the law in force the day before this Code takes effect;
Second, Where one of the original parties to the contract, &e., is incapa
ble of testifying by reason of death, &c—Where one of the original par
ties to the contract or other transaction, which is the subject of the
investigation, is incapable of testifying by reason of death, insanity,
infancy, or other legal cause, the other party to such contract or transac
tion shall not be admitted to testify in his own favor or in favor of any
other person whose interest is adverse to that of the party so incapable
of testifying, unless he be first called to testify in behalf of such last
mentioned party ; or unless some person, having an interest in or under
such contract or transaction, derived from the party so incapable of testi
fying, has testified in behalf of the latter or of himself as to such contract
or transaction ; or unless the said contract or transaction was personally
made or had with an agent of the party so incapable of testifying, and
such agent is alive and capable of testifying. t
Sec. 3347. Rule, where one of the partners or other joint contractor is
incapable of testifying. —But where any of the original parties to the
contract or other transaction which is the subject of investigation, are
partners or other joint contractors, or jointly entitled or liable, and some
of them have died or otherwise become incapable of testifying, the
others, or such of them as there may be, with whom the contract or trans
action was personally made or had, or in whose presence and with whose
privity it was made or had, shall not, nor shall the adverse party, be
incompetent to testify because some of the partners or joint contractors,
or of those jointly entitled or liable, have died or otherwise become
incapable of testifying.
Sec. 334$. Rule, where contract, &c, was made with an agent, and he is
incapable of testifying. — And where such contract or transaction was per
sonally and solely made or had with an agent of one of the parties
thereto, and such agent is dead or otherwise incapable of testifying, the
other party shall not be admitted to testify in his own favor or in favor
of a person having an interest adverse to the principal of such agent,
unless he be first called to testify on behalf of said principal or some
person claiming under him, or the testimony of such agent be first read
or given in evidence by his principal or other person claiming under him,
or unless the said principal has first testified.
Sec. 3349. When testimony of original party to contract, &c, or, &c, taken
in lifetime, admitted after death, adverse party may testify. —If an original
party to such contract or transaction, with whom it was personally and
solely made or had, or his agent, be examined as a witness orally or in
writing, at a time when he is competent to testify, and he afterwards die
or become otherwise legally incapable of testifying, his testimony may be
proved or read in evidence, and in such case the adverse party may tes
tify as to the same matters.
Sec. 3350. If a party refuse to testify when required, suit dismissed, or
pie8) &Ci) struck out.— If any party, required by another to testify on his
behalf, refuse to testify, it shall be lawful for the court, officer, or person
before whom the proceeding is pending, to dismiss the action, suit, or
other proceeding of the party so refusing, as to the whole or any part
thereof, or to strike out and disregard the plea, answer, or other defence
of such party, or any part thereof, as justice may require.
Sec. 3351. How party having adverse interest examined.— A party called
to testify for another, having an adverse interest, may be examined by
such other party according to the rules applicable to cross-examination.
Sec. 3352. How summons for witness issued, and to whom directed.—A
summons may be issued, directed as prescribed in section thirty-two
hundred and twenty, commanding the officer to summon any person to
attend on the day and at the place that such attendance is desired, to
give evidence before a court, grand jury, arbitrators, umpire, justice, cor
oner, surveyor, notary, or any commissioner appointed by a court. The
summons may be issued, if the attendance be desired at a court, by the
clerk thereof; if before a grand jury, by the attorney for the common
wealth, or the clerk of the court, at the instance of the attorney for the
commonwealth; and, in other cases, by any person before whom, or a
clerk of the court of a county or corporation in which, the attendance is
desired, or, if it be desired before a justice, by such or any other justice.
It shall express on whose behalf, and in what case or about what matter,
the witness is to attend. This section shall be deemed to authorize a
summons to compel attendance before commissioners or other persons
appointed by authority of another state, but only in case they be citizens
of this state, and the summons requires the attendance of a witness at a
place not out of his county."
Sec. 3353. How subpoena duces tecum issued.—When it appears by affidavit
that a writing or document in the possession of a person not a party
to the matter in controversy, is material, and proper to be produced
before a court, or any person appointed by it or acting under its process
or authority, such court, or a judge thereof in vacation, may order the
clerk of said court to issue a mbp&nn duces tecum to compel such produc
tion at a time and place to be specified in the order.
Sec. 3354. How person failing to attend and give evidence, or to produce
a writing or document, proceeded against. Prepayment of mileage and
attendance. — If any person, after being served with such summons, fail to
attend to give evidence, or to produce such writing or document, accord
ing to the summons, the court whose clerk issued the summons, or if it
was not issued by a clerk of the court, the circuit or county court of the
county, or the circuit or corporation court of the corporation, in which
the attendance was desired, or the judge of such circuit or corporation
court in vacation, or the chancery court of the city of Richmond, or the
judge thereof in vacation, where the attendance is desired before a person
acting under the authority of such chancery court, on a special report
thereof by the person or persons before whom there was the failure to
attend, and on proof that there was paid to him (if it was required by
endorsement on the process) a reasonable time before he was required
to attend, the allowance for one day's attendance and his mileage and
tolls, shall, after service of a notice to or rule to show cause against it, if
none be shown, fine him not exceeding twenty dollars, to the use of the
party for whom he was summoned, and said court or judge may proceed,
by attachment, to compel him to attend and give his evidence, or pro
duce such writing or document at such time and place as said court or
judge may deem fit. The witness shall, moreover, be liable to any party
aggrieved for damages.
Sec. 3355. Commitment to jail of person refusing to testify, or to produce
writing or document.—If a person, after being served with such summons,
attend, and yet refuse to be sworn, or to give evidence, or to produce any
writing or document required, he may, by order of the court whose clerk
issued said summons, or if it was not issued by a clerk, by order of the
court or judge having authority to enforce the attendance of the witness
under the preceding section, on a special report of the fact by the person
before whom such refusal occurs, be committed to jail, there to remain
until he shall, in custody of the jailor, give such evidence or produce
such writing or document.
Sec. 3356. Who may administer oath to witness.— Any person, before
whom a witness is to be examined, may administer an oath to such wit
ness.
Sec. 3357. Interpreters. — Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret,
when necessary.
Sec 3358. What is sufficient evidence of non-residence of witness or
party. How publication in a newspaper is proved.— In any suit, an affidavit
that a witness or party resides out of this state, or is out of it, shall be
prima facie evidence of the fact, although such affidavit be made by a
party, and without previous notice. Where anything is authorized or
required by this Code or by any statute to be published in a newspaper,
the certificate of the editor, or affidavit of any other person, shall be
admitted as evidence of what is stilted therein as to the publication.
Sec. 3359. Deposition of witness, by whom taken in this state; how certided.—
In any pending case the deposition of a witness, whether a party
to the suit or not, may be taken in this state by a justice, or notary, or by
a commissioner in chancery ; and, if certified under his hand, may be
received without proof of the signature to such certificate.
Sec. 3360. Of witness, who resides out of the state, by whom taken; how
certified. —The deposition of a witness, whether a party to the suit or not,
who resides out of this state, or is out of it in the service thereof, or of
the United States, may be taken before any commissioner appointed by
the Governor of this state, or any justice, notary, or other officer author
ized to take depositions in the state wherein the witness may be, or if
the deposition is to be taken in a foreign country, before any person that
the parties may agree upon in writing, or any American minister pleni
potentiary, charge <f affaires, consul-general, vice-consul, commercial agent
appointed by the government of the United States, or any other repre
sentative of the United States in a foreign country, or the mayor, or
other magistrate of any city, town, or corporation in such country, or any
notary therein. Any person, before whom a deposition may be so taken,
may administer an oath to the witness, and take and certify the deposi
tion with hiB official seal annexed ; and if he have none, then the gen
uineness of his signature shall be authenticated by some officer of the
same state or country, under his official seal, unless the deposition is
taken by a justice out of this state, but in the United States, or before
some person agreed upon in writing by the parties, in which case his cer
tificate shall be received without any seal annexed, or other authentica
tion of his signature. When a deposition is taken before some person
agreed upon in writing by the parties other than the officer authorized to
take the deposition, the said writing shall be returned with the deposi
tion, and the deposition shall not be read unless said writing is so
returned.
Sec, 3361. No commission necessary, except, &c—No commission (except
as provided in section twenty-five hundred and thirty-seven) shall here
after be necessary to take a deposition, whether within or without the
state.
Sec. 3362. Notice to be given of taking a deposition ; in what stage of sbH
in equity, a deposition may be returned and read.— Reasonable notice shall
be given to the adverse party of the time and place of taking every depo
sition. And where there are pending in the same court several actions
or suits between the same parties, depending upon the same facts, or
involving the same matter of controversy, in whole or in part, a deposi
tion taken in one of said actions or suits, upon a joint notice to the same
party or parties, may be read in all, so far as it is applicable and relevant
to the issue. In a suit in equity, a deposition may be read, if returned
before the hearing of the cause, or, though after an interlocutory decree
if it be as to a matter not thereby adjudged, and be returned before a final
decree.
Sec. 3363. Notice to non-resident may be served on counsel; court to
decide on its validity.— Whenever any party, on whom a notice to take a
deposition should be served, is not a resident of Virginia, the service of
such notice on the counsel of such party or on any one of such counsel,
if there be more than one, shall have like effect as if it were served upon
the party, provided the time between the service of notice and taking the
deposition be sufficient for conveying by ordinary course of mail a letter
from the place of service to the place of residence of the party, and a
reply from that place back to the place of service, and then for the coun
sel to attend at the place of taking the deposition. In all cases when
notice is served on counsel as aforesaid, the court, upon exception being
taken, may determine whether, under all the circumstances, the notice
has been served in reasonable time, and admit or reject the deposition
accordingly.
Sec. 3364. When deposition may he retaken and read.—The deposition
of a witness may be retaken in any case without the consent of the court
first obtained, and may be read, if the court, upon application, in the
exercise of a sound discretion, would have made an order for such
re-examination.
Sec. 3365. Under what circumstances a deposition may be read in case at
law.— A deposition in a civil case at law, taken on such notice, under sections thirty-three hundred and fifty-nine, thirty-three hundred end
sixty, and thirtv-three hundred and sixty-two, may be read in such case
' * -
if, when, it is offered, the witness be dead, or out of this state, or one of
its judges, or a superintendent of a lunatic asylum distant more than
thirty miles from the place of trial, or in any public office or service, the
duties of which prevent his attending the court, or be unable to attend
it from sickness or other infirmity, or be more than a hundred miles from
the place of trial. But where the only ground of reading a deposition
is, that the witness is more than a hundred miles from the place of trial,
on motion to the court, before the commencement of the trial, it may,
for good cause shown, require such witnesses to attend in person.
Sec. 3366. How depositions certified, returned, and filed ; time when
received to be endorsed.— A deposition, when completed, shall be certi-
fled and returned by the officer taking it, to the clerk of the court
wherein the suit or other proceeding, in which the deposition is taken,
is pending, or to the commissioner or person before whom it is to be
read ; and when received, the clerk, commissioner, or other person to
whom sent, after endorsing thereon the time it was so received, shall file
it among the papers of the suit or other proceeding.
Sec. 3367. May be read by either party.—A deposition, if not read on
the trial by the party taking it, may be read by the other party.
Sec. 3368. How taken alter decision of cause from which appeal, 4c,
lies. —In any case wherein there has been a judgment, decree, or order,
from or to which an appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas, has been or
might be allowed, a deposition may be taken for any party to such case,
or for or against his wife or her husband, personal representative, heirs,
or devisees, in like manner, and by such persons, as is before prescribed
for pending cases ; and it may be read in any future trial that may be
directed, if the same could properly be read had there been no such
judgment, decree, or order.
Sec. 3369. How testimony perpetuated.— A person desirous of perpetuating
the testimony of witnesses as to a matter in respect to which there
is no suit, may file with a commissioner in chancery of a court wherein,
if there were a bill to perpetuate the testimony, such bill might be filed,
a petition stating such matter, and what persons may be affected by the
testimony. Whereupon, the commissioner shall appoint, for proceeding
on the petition, a time and place, whereof reasonable notice shall be
given to the persons who may be so affected. If any of them be an
infant or insane person, the commissioner shall appoint a guardian ad
litem to attend on his behalf. At such time and place the commissioner
shall take in writing the evidence of any witnesses adduced in respect
to the said matter by the petitioner, or by the person so affected. He
may adjourn from time to time, and shall return a report of his proceed
ings, with the testimony taken hy him, to the clerk's office of the court
by which he was appointed, and such testimony shall have the same
effect as if it had been taken on a bill to perpetuate testimony. Such
court may make such order as to the costs as may seem to it right.
Sec. 3370. Interrogatories to adverse party or claimant, when and how
filed; how answers thereto enforced ; how used as evidence, —In a case at
law, a party may file iu the clerk's office, and in a case or matter before
a commissioner of a court, any person interested may file with such
commissioner, interrogatories to any adverse party or claimant. The
clerk or commissioner shall issue a summons, directed as prescribed in section thirty-two hundred and twenty, requiring the officer to summon
the proper party to answer said interrogatories, and make return thereof
within such time, not exceeding sixty days, as may be prescribed in the
summons. With the summons, there shall be a copy of the interroga
tories, which shall be delivered to the person served with the summons,
at the time of such service; if the summons be against a plaintiff who
is not a resident of this state, the service m;iy be on his attorney -at-law.
When the court in which the case is, or whose commissioner issued the
summons, is satisfied that the interrogatories are relevant, and such as
the person to whom they are propounded would be bound to answer
upon a bill for discovery, and sees also that the interrogatories have not
been unreasonably delayed, it may, if the said person do not, in a reason
able time, file answers thereto, upon oath, or, if lie file answers which
are evasive, attach him and compel him to answer in open court, or to
answer more explicitly. It may also, if it see fit, set aside a plea of his,
and give judgment against him by default, or, if he be plaintiff, order his
suit to be dismissed with cost", or, if he be claiming a debt before a com
missioner, disallow such claim. Answers to such interrogatories may be
used as evidence at the trial of the cause, in the same manner and with
the same effect as if obtained upon a bill of discovery.
Sec. 3371. When and how production of book of accounts or other
writing compelled. —In any case at law, a party may file in the clerk's
office, and in any case or matter before a commissioner of a court, any
person interested may file with such commissioner, an affidavit, setting
forth that there is, he verily believes, a book of accounts or other
writing, in possession of an adverse party or claimant, containing mate
rial evidence for him, specifying with reasonable certainty such writing,
or the part of such book. The clerk or commissioner shall issue a sum
mons, directed as under the preceding section, requiring him to summon
the proper party to produce such writing, or an exact copy of such part
of the said book, and make return thereof as under that section. With
the summons, there shall be a copy of the affidavit, which shall be deliv
ered to the person served with the summons at the time of such service;
if the summons be against a plaintiff, who is not a resident of this state,
the service may be on his attorney-at-law. When the court in which the
case is, or whose commissioner issued the summons, is satisfied that the
person filing such affidavit has no means of proving the contents of such
writing, or of such rrart of the book, but by the person summoned pro
ducing what is required by the summons, and that the same is relevant
and material, and sees also that the call therefor has not been unreasona
bly delayed, it may, unless the person summoned shall, in a reasonable
time, either produce what is so required, or answer in writing, upon oath,
that he has not under his control such book or writing, or any of the like
import, attach him and compel him to do the one or the other. It may
also, if it see fit, set aside a plea of such person, and give judgment against
him by default, or, if he be plaintiff, order his suit to be dismissed, with
costs, or, if he be claiming a debt before a commissioner, disallow such
claim.
Sec. 3372. Effect of the two preceding sections on bill in equity. —The two
preceding sections shall not preclude a person, who does not file 6iich
interrogatories or affidavit, from exhibiting his bill in chancery for a dis
covery, as he might have done if the said sections had not been enacted.
But a person filing such interrogatories or affidavit, shall not afterwards
exhibit a bill in equity against the same party for the discovery or pro
duction of the same matters.
Sec. 3373. Presumption of death from absence.— If any person, who shall
have resided in this state, go from, and do not return to the state for
seven years successively, he shall be presumed to be dead in any case
•wherein his death shall come in question, unless proof be m:ide that he
•was alive within at that time.
Sec. 3374. Rights of persons injured by such presumption, restored.— If
the person so presumed to be dead be found to have been living, any per
son injured by such presumption shall be restored to the rights of which
lie shall have been deprived by reason of such presumption.
Sec. 3375. Evidence in mitigation of damages.— In any action for defamation,
the defendant may justify by alleging and proving that the words
spoken or written were true, and (after notice in writing of his intention
to do so, given to the plaintiff at the time of, or for pleading to such action),
may give in evidence, in mitigation of damages, that he made or offered
an apology to the plaintiff for such defamation before the commenceuient
of the action, or as soon afterwards as he had an opportunity of
'
doing so, in case the action shall have been commenced before there was
an opportunity of making or offering such apology.
Sec.
3J76.
CHAPTER CXLV.
OF THE LOSS OF A RECORD OR PAPER IN A CAUSE.
How court may proceed, when origi
nal papers lost or destroyed.
Plainlitt may commeni'e new suit
in such case. When certified
copy ol a paper, required to be rerecorded,
may be used as evi-
aeiice.
Sec.
3377. What to be deemed proof of filing
of a paper in certain public ollioes
of state, which was required to be
so riled prior to April 10, 1865.
Sec. 3376. How court may proceed, when original papers lost or destroyed.
Plaintiff may commence new suit in such case. When certified copy of a
paper, required to be recorded, may be used as evidence.— If, in any cause,
. ,. 1., 1 ... .
the original papers therein, or any of them, or the record for or in an
appellate court, or any paper filed or connected with such record, be lost
or destroyed, the court wherein the case is, or in which it would or
ought to be, but for such loss or destruction, may docket the same; and,
on affidavit of such loss or destruction, the case may be proceeded in,
heard, and determined, upon an authenticated copy of what is lost or
destroyed, or proof of the contents thereof, or upon proof of so much of
the contents thereof, as may enahle the court to proceed in, hear, and
determine the case, and make such entry, order, or decree therein, as if
the papers, or any of them had not been lost or destroyed. The court
may, in its discretion, require new pleadings to be made up, in whole or
in part. A plaintiff, instead of proceeding under this section, may com
mence and prosecute a new suit for the same matter; and no certified
copy of any deed, will, account, or other original paper required by law
to be recorded in any county or corporation court, shall be used by any
party as evidence for him, in any case where the original deed, will,
account, or other original paper, or the record thereof, has been destroyed,
until such copy has been admitted to record in the place of the original
which has been destroyed.
Sec. 3377. What to be deemed proof of filing a paper in certain public
offices of state, which was required to be so filed prior to April 10, 1865.—
In any case, in which, by any law, or any contract made in pursuance to
any law, the filing of any paper or papers, prior to the tenth day of
April, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, in the offices of the Secretary of
the Commonwealth, the Treasurer, the Auditor of Public Accounts, the
Second Auditor, the Board of Public Works, or the secretary thereof, the
board of the literary fund, or the Adjutant-General, was made necessary
as a prerequisite to the enjoyment or exercise of any right of franchise,
or the bringing or maintaining of any suit, or other proceeding in the
nature of a suit, then, if such paper or record cannot, upon search, be
found in the proper office, and there is probable cause for believing that
such paper or record has been destroyed, the proof, by parol or otherwise,
of the actual exercise of such right or franchise, acquired by or predicated
upon such filing, during the period of two years, at any time prior to the
said tenth day of April, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, shall, in any
suit or other proceeding, when such question shall arise, be held and
deemed to be prima fane evidence of the filing of such paper, in accord
ance with the requirements of such law or contract, and shall be held
and deemed to be equivalent prima facir, to the full proof of such filintr,
and of the lawful exercise of the right or franchise thereby conferred :
such proof however shall not be deemed conclusive, but may be rebutted,
as in other cases, by any competent evidence, oral or otherwise.
Sec. 3378. When and how clerks to make out docket of cases at law ;
how docket called and cases disposed of.— Before every term of a circuit
court, and before every term of a corporation court designated for the
trial of civil cases in whicli juries are required, the clerk of each of said
courts shall make out a docket of the following cases at law pending,
to-wit :
First, Cases of the commonwealth ;
Second, Motions and actions in the order in which the notices of the
motions were tiled, or in which the proceedings at rules in the actions
were terminated, docketing together as new cases those not on the
docket at the previous term : and the clerk of the circuit court of the
city of Richmond shall also put on the docket with said new cases, as
soon as matured and in the order in which they are matured, all cases
matured during the term of the said court. The clerk shall, under the
control of the court, set the cases to certain days; and the docket shall
be ealled, and the cases on it tried or disposed of for the term in that
order, except that the court may, for good cause, take up any out of turn.
Sec. 3379. When and how, docket of chancery cases; how cases called
and disposed of. —Before every term of a circuit or corporation court, and
of the chancery court of the city of Richmond, the clerk of each of said
courts shall make out a separate docket of chancery cases in which there
are motions, and of other chancery cases which have been set for hearing
as to any party, or which the court is to hear upon a plea, demurrer, or
exceptions to an answer; and the clerk of the circuit court of the city of
Richmond, and the clerk of the chancery court of the said city, shall
Also put upon their respective chancery dockets, as soon as matured at
the rules and in the order in which they are matured, all chancery cases
And motions, matured during the respective terms of the said court".
Every cause on the docket shall be called and disposed of during the
term.
Sec. 3380. Remedy, if court refuse to hear a case.— Any party, asking
the court to hear a case, may, if the court refuse to hear it, have his
application spread upon the record, with a statement of the facts in rela
tion thereto.
Sec. 33SI. Trial of issue out of chancery.— Any court, in which a chan
cery case is pending, may direct an issue to be tried in such court, or in
any circuit or corporation court.*
Sec. 3382. Trial of issues, or inquiry of damages, by jury in other cases;
province of court at trial.— A circuit, county, or corporation court may, in
any other case before it, have an issue tried, or an inquiry of damages
made, by a jury, and determine all questions concerning the legality of
evidence and other matters of law which may arise.
Sec. 3383. When case, in which there is to be inquiry of damages, may be
disposed of; when court to make the inquiry.— At the next term after an
order at the rules for an inquiry of damages, or, if the case be in the cir
cuit court of the city of Richmond and the order be made at the rules
and the case matured and docketed during term of the said court, then at
the said term, such order may be executed and final judgment be ren
dered thereupon, unless good cause be shown for a continuance. t The
court, if neit her party require a jury, shall ascertain the damages, and on
what sum and from what time interest shall be computed, and give judg
ment for such damages and interest.
Sec. 3384. Remedy, when at trial variance appears between evidence and
allegations or recitals.— If, at the trial of any action, there appears to be
a variance bet ween the evidence and allegations or recitals, the court, if
it consider that substantial justice will he promoted and that the opposite
party cannot be prejudiced thereby, may allow the pleadings to be
amended, on such terms as to the payment of costs or postponement of
the trial, or both, as it may deem reasonable. Or, instead of the plead
ings being amended, the court may direct the jury to find the facts,"and,
after such finding, if it consider the variance such as could not have pre
judiced the opposite party, shall give judgment according to the right of
the case.
Sec. 3385. Bill of exceptions.— In the trial of a case at law, in which an
appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas lies to a higher court, a party may
except to any opinion of the court, and tender a bill of exceptions, which
(if the truth of the case be fairly stated therein) the judge shall sign ; and
it shall be a part of the record of the case.
Sec. 3386. Argument before jury.— Not more than two counsel shall
argue in a civil case, on the same side, unless by leave of the court.
Sec. 3387. When non-suit not allowed. — A party shall not be allowed to
Buffer a non-suit, unless he do so before the jury retire from the bar. 'J
Sec. 3388. What papers jury may earry out.— Papers read in evidence,
though not under seal, may be carried from the bar by the jury.
Sec. 3389. When faulty count disregarded ; when verdict good.— Where
there are several counts, one of which is faulty, the defendant may ask
the court to instruct the jury to disregard it ; yet, if entire damages be
given, the verdict shall be good.
Sec. 33110. Verdict to fix period at which interest begins; if no period
fixed, to be from date of verdict. —The jury, in any action founded on con
tract, may allow interest on the principal due, or any part thereof, and
fix the period at which such interest shall commence. And in any action
whether on contract or for tort, the jury may allow interest on the sum
found by the verdict, or any part thereof, and fix the period at which
the interest shall commence. If a verdict be rendered which does not
allow interest, the sum thereby found shall bear interest from its date,
and judgment shall bo entered accordingly.
Sec. 33111. Judgment for interest where no jury; judgment to be for
interest until payment. — In any suit in equity, or in an action founded
on contract, where no jury is impaneled, judgment or decree may be
rendered for interest on the principal sum recovered, until such judg
ment be paid ; and where there is a jury, which allows interest, the judg
ment shall, in like manner, be for such interest until payment.t
Sec. 3392. Power to grant new trial ; how often.— In any civil case or
procceding, the court before which a trial by jury is had, may grant a
new trial, unless it be otherwise specially provided. A new trial may be
granted as well where the damages awarded are two small as where they
are excessive. Not more than two new trials shall be granted (o the
same party in the same cause.J
Sec. 3393. How judgment entered on bond for payment of money.— When
there is a recovery on a bond, with condition for the payment of money,
the judgment shall be for the penalty of the bond, to be discharged by
the payment of the principal and the interest due thereon.
Sec. 3394. In action on annuity bonds, &c, or for penalty, how breaches
assigned; what jury to do; how judgment entered; when scire facias sued
out, and for what execution awarded.— In an action on an annuity bond, or
J 1
a bond for money payable by instalments, where there are further pay-
ments of the annuitv, or further instalments to become due after the
commencement of the action, or in any other action for a penalty for the
non-performance of any condition, covenant, or agreement, the plaintiff
may assign as many breaches as he may think fit, and shall, in his
declaration or scire facias assign the specific breaches for which the action
is brought, or the scire facia* is sued out. The jury impaneled in any
such action shall ascertain the damages sustained, or the sum due, by
reason of the breaches assigned, and judgment shall be entered for the
penalty, to be discharged by the payment of what is so ascertained, and
such further sums as may be afterwards assessed, or be found due upon a
scire facias assigning a further breach. Such scire facias may be sued out,
from time to time, by any person injured, against the defendant or his
personal representative, and for what may be assessed or found due upon
the new breach or breaches assigned, execution may be awarded.
Sec. 3395. In joint actions, plaintiff, though barred as to some, may have
judgment against others. — In an action, founded on contract, against two
or more defendants, although the plaintiff may be barred as to one or
more of them, yet he may have judgment against any other or others of
the defendants, against whom he would have been entitled to recover if
he had sued them only.
Sec. 3396. When plaintiff may proceed to judgment against part of defend
ants ; effect of discontinuance as to any.— Where, in any action against two
or more defendants, the process is served on part of them, the plaintiff
may proceed to judgment as to any so served, and either discontinne it
as to the others, or from time to time, as the process is served as to such
others, proceed to judgment as to them until judgments be obtained
against all. Such discontinuance of the action as to any defendant shall
not operate as a bar of any subsequent action which may be brought
against him for the same cause.
Sec. 3397. Decree or order for sale; how sale made; bond required of
commissioner. — A court, in a suit properly therein, may make a decree or
order for the pale* of property in any part of the state, and may direct
the sale to he for cash, or on such credit and terms as it may deem best ;
and it may appoint a special commissioner to make such sale. No
special commissioner, appointed by a court, shall receive money under a
decree or order, until he gives bond, before the said court or its clerk in
a penalty to be prescribed by the court.
Sec. 3398. Sale or renting of property not to be advertised until bond
given by commissioner; its penalty; what certificate to be appended to
advertisement; duty of clerk; his fee.— No special commissioner appointed
by a decree or order of court, or of a judge in vacation, to sell or rent
any property, shall advertise the property for sale or renting, or sell or
rent the same, until he shall have given bond before the court or judge,
or the clerk of the court in his ofliee, in a penalty, to be prescribed by
the court or judge, sufficient to cover at least the probable amount of the
whole purchase money or rent, and shall have obtained from the said
clerk a certificate that the bond required by law or by the decree or
order has been given, which certificate or a copy thereof shall be appen
ded to the advertisement. The clerk shall make the certificate when
ever the bond has been given and note the same in the proceedings in
the cause, and shall receive therefor a tee of twenty-five cents, to be
taxed in the costs of the suit. The certificate or a copy thereof shall be
returned with Hip report of the sale or renting.
Sec. 3399. When purchaser relieved of liability from purchase money or
rent. —When such certificate shall have been published with an adver
tisement of the sale or renting of property, or when such bond shall
have been given prior to a sale or renting not publicly advertised, any
person purchasing or renting such property in pursuance of such adver
tisement, or in pursuance of the decree or order of sale or renting, shall
be relieved of all liability for the purchase money or rent, or any part
thereof, which he may pay to any special commissioner, as to whom the
proper certificate shall have been appended to such advertisement, or
who shall have given the bond aforesaid.
Sec. 3400. Penalty on clerk for false certificate.— If any clerk make a
certificate as to the bond, which is untrue, he and the sureties in his
official bond shall be liable to any person injured thereby ; and, if he
issue such certificate, knowing it to be false, he shall, in addition to such
liability, be fined not less than fifty nor more than five hundred dollars,
and, upon conviction, be removed from his office.
Sec. 3401. Commissioner making sale, &c, to receive purchase money, kt. ;
duty of clerk when another person appointed collector ; effect of payment by
purchaser, &c, to commissioner making sale. &c. before notice of appoint
ment of another collector; penalty on clerk for failure to give such notice.
The commissioner, appointed for the purpose, who makes the sale or
renting, shall receive and collect all the purchase money or rent, unless
by decree or order, some other person be appointed to collect the same;
in which case, the court shall require of such person bond in such pen
alty as to it may seem lit. When such appointment is made, it shall be the
duty of the clerk to give notice thereof, in writing, to the purchaser or
lessee, to be served as other notices are required by law to be served ; but
no payment shall be made to the person so appointed, until he shall
have given the bond required by the decree or order: Provided hmcerer,
that if, before the purchaser or lessee has received notice of such appoint
ment, he shall have made any payment, on account of the purchase
money or rent, to the special commissioner, or any person appointed for
the purpose, who made the sale or renting, such special commissioner, or
other person, who made the sale or renting, anil the sureties in his bond,
shall be responsible for the money so paid, and the purchaser or lessee,
who made the payment, shall not be responsible therefor. If any clerk
fail to give the notice hereinbefore required to be given by him, he and
the sureties in his official bond shall be liable to any person injured by
6uch failure ; and he shall, moreover, be fined not less than ten nor more
than one hundred dollars.
Sec. 3402. When collection of money by commissioner, &c, larceny.— If
any special commissioner or receiver, appointed by any court or judge to
collect money, and required by law, or decree or order of the court or
judge, to give bond before collecting the same, shall collect said money,
or any part thereof, without giving such bond, and fail properly to
account for the same, he shall be deemed guilty of larceny of the money
so collected and not so accounted for.
Sec. 3403. When sheriff or sergeant to execute decree or order of sale.—
Where no special commissioner is appointed for the purpose, a decree or
order of any court for the sale of property shall be executed by the sher-
iff or sergeant who attends such court, unless the place of sale be out of
his county or corporation, in which case the sale Bhall be by the sheriff
of the county wherein the place of sale is, or, if the place be in a corpor
ation, by the sergeant thereof, or the sheriff of the county including such
corporation, as the court may direct. Any sheriff, sergeant, or other offi
cer, receiving money under any order or decree.shall pay the same as the
court may order; and if he fail so to do, he and the sureties in his offi
cial bond shall be liable therefor.
Sec. 3404. Commissions for selling and collecting.— For the services of
commissioners or officers under any decree or order for a sale, including
the collection and paying over the proceeds, there shall not be allowed
any greater commission than five percent, on the first three hundred dol
lars received by them, and two per rent, on all above that. And if a sale
be made by one commissioner or officer, and the proceeds be collected by
another, the court under whose decree or order they acted, shall appor
tion the commission between them as may be just.
Sec. 3405. Appointment of general receivers; their duties.— Each circuit
and corporation court may appoint a general receiver* of the court, who
shall hold his office at its pleasure, and whose duty it shall be, unless it be
otherwise specially ordered, to receive, take charge of, and invest in such
securities as the court may order, and in the manner required by such
order, all moneys paid into court, or into bank or other place of deposit,
and standing subject to the order of such court, and all moneys there
after so paid under any judgment, order, or decree of the court, and also
to pay out or dispose of the same as the court may order or decree ; and,
to this end, the general receiver ^hall have authority to check for,
receive, and give acquittances for all such moneys.
Sec. 3406. How securities taken and kept; power of receivers over
game.—The securities, in which under the orders of the court such invest
ments may be made, shall be taken jn the name of the general receiver,
and be kept by him, unless otherwise specially ordered ; and he shall
have power to sell, transfer, or collect the same, when ordered by the
court to do so, but not otherwise ; and in case of his death, resignation,
or removal, his successor, or any person specially appointed by the court
for that purpose, shall have like power.
Sec. 3407. How dividends and interest collected and invested.— The gene
ral receiver shall collect the dividends and interest on all the securities
in which investments have been or may be made, under the orders or
decrees of his court, or under the -provisions of section thirty -four hun
dred and five, when and as often as the same may become due and pay
able thereon, and shall invest the same in like securities, unless the court
has ordered or decreed some other investment, or disposition to be made
thereof; in which case he shall invest or dispose of the same as the court
shall have ordered or decreed.
Sec. 3408. How accounts kept by receivers; when and how reports made
to their courts. —lie shall keep an accurate and particular account of all
moneys received, invested, and paid out by him, showing the respective
amounts to the credit of each case in the court, and designating in the
items the judgments, orders, or decrees of court under which the repect-
ive sums have been received, invested, or paid out ; and on the first day
of each regular term of the circuit court, and each term of the corpora
tion court designated for the trial of civil cases in which juries are
required, he shall report to his court a general statement, showing the
balance to the credit of each case in the court in which money has been
received by him, the manner in which it is invested, the amounts
received, invested, or paid out since his last report, and the whole
amount then invested and subject to the future order of the court ; and
he shall, at any time when required by the court so to do, furnish a state
ment of the amount subject to the order of the court in any case pending
therein.
Sec. 3409. Their liability.— He shall be liable for all moneys which may
come into his hands as general receiver; and if at any time he fail to
invest any sum of money, as required by the four preceding sections, for
the space of sixty days after the same shall be, or ought to have been,
received by him, or fail to pay out any sum of money, when required by
the court to pay the same, for the space of sixty days after it shall come
into his hands for the purpose of such payment, he shall be charged
with interest thereon, from the day when such money was, or ought to
have been, received by him, until such investment or payment is made,
unless, upon good cause shown to the court, it shall order otherwise.
Sec. 3410. Their bonds.— He shall annually give, before the court, a
bond, to be approved by it, in such penalty as the court may direct, suffi
cient at least to cover the probable amount which may come into his
hands in any one year, and each successive bond shall be deemed a
cumulative security from the time of its execution for the faithful dis
charge by him thereafter of his duties as receiver.
Sec. 3411. Their compensation. —He shall receive as a compensation for
his services such per cent, of the amount received and invested or paid
out by him in such case, as the court may direct, for receiving, investing,
or paying out the same.
Sec. 3412. Penalty for failure of duty.— If he fail to keep the account,
or to make out and return the statements required by section thirty-four
hundred and eight, he shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hun
dred nor more than one thousand dollars, to be imposed by the court at
its discretion ; and the condition of his official bond shall be taken to
embrace the liability of himself and his sureties for any such fine.
Sec. 3413. When interest payable ; when compounded.—The interest on
all loans made to individu ds under an order of court shall become due
and payable on the first day of January next after the loan was made,
and annually on the first day of January of each succeeding year, until
the principal is paid ; and unless the interest be paid at the time it
becomes due and payable, compound interest shall be charged thereon to
the borrower from such time until payment thereof is made.
Sec. 3414. Settlement of accounts of receivers, and examination of tbeir
bonds and of the securities held by them.— Each circuit and corporation
court, at its first regular term after the first day of January in each year,
by an order entered of record, shall require one of its commissioners in
chancery, other than a commissioner who may have been appointed
general receiver thereof, to slate and settle the accounts of all the
receivers of such court, both general and special, and of all persons to
whom any money has been loaned under the order of the court, or who
have money subject to the future order of the court, and which then
remains undisbursed. The clerk of the court shall furnish to such com
missioner a copy of the order so made, with a list appended thereto,
exhibiting the names of all such receivers and persons. The said com
missioner shall summon such receivers and persons, or the personal
representatives of such of them as are dead, before him, and audit, state,
and settle their accounts, and report the same to the court at its next
term after such order has been made. He shall also cause the bonds of
the receivers of the court,, and the bonds or other securities given for
any money loaned under the order of the court, to be produced before
him, and shall ascertain if the obligors in such bonds, or if such other
securities are sufficient, and report thereon to the court at the times
before mentioned.
Sec. 3415. Reports of such settlements, &c, to be recorded; when new
bond or additional security to be required ; effect of new bond.—The court
shall examine the reports required by the preceding section, when the
same are made to it; and, if satisfied of the correctness thereof, shall
order them to be recorded. If it appears from the report of the commis
sioner that any bond of a receiver, or any bond or other security given
by any person to whom money has been loaned under its order, is insuf
ficient, the court shall order additional security to be given, or a new
bond to be executed before it, in such penalty as may seem right, and
with sufficient sureties. But the execution of such new bond shall not
discharge the sureties in any prior bond from their liability for acts of
the principal obligor done previous to the execution of such new bond.
•Sec. 3416. "Receivers' Book;" what recorded therein; how indexed;
open to inspection. — Each clerk of the said courts respectively shall pro
cure, at the expense of his county or corporation, a book, to be called the
"Receivers' Book," wherein he shall record the said reports, when
approved by the court ; and he shall make an index thereto, showing the
style of the suit or other proceeding in which money has been paid as
aforesaid, and the page where any report respecting the same is recorded ;
and the said book shall be open to the examination of any person inter
ested, or his counsel, without the payment of any fee therefor.
Sec. 3417. Fees of clerks and commissioners.— For recording the reports
required by section thirty-four hundred and fourteen, said clerks may
charge, in each case mentioned in such report, a fee of eighteen cents to
any party in the case seeking to recover the money therein and men
tioned in the report ; and said commissioners may charge, for the reports
made under the said section, the same fees allowed by law to commis
sioners in chancery for other reports, to be paid out of the fund in court,
and charged to the respective cases therein, in such proportions as the
court shall judge right.
Sec. 3418. Court may appoint commissioner to execute a deed or writing;
effect of such deed, &c. —A court of equity, in a suit wherein it is proper
to decree or order the execution of any deed or writing, may appoint a
commissioner to execute the same; and the execution thereof shall be
as valid to pass, release, or extinguish the right, title, and interest of the
party on whose behalf it is executed, as if such party had been at the
time capable in law of executing the same, and had executed it.
Sec. 3419. How trustee appointed in place of one who has died, resigned,
removed, or declined the trust.— When a trustee in a will, deed, or other
writing, dies, or removes beyond the limits of the state, or declines to
accept the trust, or, when, having accepted, he resigns the same, as he
may be allowed to do, the circuit, county, or corporation court in which
such will was admitted to probate, or such deed or other writing is, or
might have been, recorded, may, on motion of any person interested,
appoint a trustee or trustees, in the place of the trustee named in such
instrument. A motion under this section shall be after reasonable notice
to all persons interested in the execution of such trust, other than the
plaintiff in such motion. This section shall not apply to any case pro
vided for by section fourteen hundred and twenty-three.
Sec. 3420. How trustee required to give bond ; when to be removed and
another appointed. —After reasonable notice to a trustee, whether
appointed by will, deed, or other writing, the circuit court of the county,
or the circuit or corporation court of the corporation, which would have
jurisdiction in equity to administer the trust, or a judge thereof in vaca
tion, may, on motion of any person interested, if it deem the same pro
per for the security of the trust estate, order such trustee to give bond
with surety before such court, or before the clerk thereof, within a reason
able time and in a penalty to be prescribed by such court or judge, for
the faithful execution of the trust, and may, if such order be not com
plied with, or whenever for any cause it appears proper, remove such
trustee and appoint another in his place.
Sec. 3421. Courts of equity may exercise same powers.—A court of equity,
in a suit pending to enforce or administer the trust, may exercise all the
powers conferred by either of the two preceding sections on the courts
therein mentioned.
Sec. 3422. When new trustee appointed in suit in equity in place of one
who has died. —And when in a suit in equity it appears that a trustee has
died, although the heirs of such trustee be not parties, yet, if his personal
representative and the other persons interested be parties, the court may
appoint another trustee in place of him who has died, to act alone, or in
conjunction with any surviving trustee, as the case may require.
Sec. 3123. Substituted trustees, their powers, duties, &e. ; how removed
or proceeded against ; their bonds. —Any person appointed trustee by vir
tue of this chapter shall be substituted to all the rights, powers, duties,
and responsibilities of the trustee named in such will, deed, or other
writing : and such substituted trustee may, in like manner, be removed
or required to give bond with sureties, or give a new bond where one has
already been given, and be proceeded against in every respect as an
original trustee.
Sec. 3424. Right of infant to show cause against decree.— It shall not be
necessary to insert in any decree or order a provision allowing an infant
to show cau>e against it within a certain time after he attains the age of
° b
twenty-one years. But in any case in which, but for this section, such
provision would have been proper, the infant may, within six months
after attaining the age of twenty -one yean, show such cause in like man
ner as if the decree or order contained such provision. This right of an
infant shall not be affected by section thirty-four hundred and eighteen.
Sec. 3425. Effect of reversal of decree of sale upon a purchaser under it.
If a sale of property be made under a decree or order of a court, after six
months from the date thereof, and such sale be confirmed, though such
' ' 0
decree or order be afterwards reversed or set aside, the title of the pur-
chaser at such sale shall not be affected thereby ; but there may be restitution
of the proceeds of sale to those entitled.
Sec. 3426. Interlocutory decrees and orders in vacation.— On the motion
of any party to a chancery cause pending in a circuit court, on reasonable
notice to the adverse party or his counsel, the judge of such court may, in
vacation, make any interlocutory decree or order or direct any proceed
ings therein, preparatory to the hearing of the cause on the merits; and
may, also, after like notice to the adverse party or his counsel and to the
purchaser, make an order confirming or refusing to confirm a sale made
under a decree in any such cause.
Sec. 3427. How a chancery cause submitted for decision in vacation ; how
the decree certified and entered; its effect.— Any chancery cause pending
in a circuit court, may, by consent of the parties in term entered of record,
or by the like consent in vacation, be submitted to the said judge for such
decision and decree therein in vacation as might be made in term. When
such consent is in vacation, the judge shall certify the fact to the clerk of
the court in which the cause is pending to be entered by him in his
chancery order book. He shall also certify the decrees and orders made
by him in vacation to such clerk to be entered in like manner. All decrees
anil orders so made and entered shall have the same force and effect as
if made and entered in term.
Sec. 3428. Power of judge in vacation to enforce obedience to decrees and
orders.—The judge of every circuit court shall have the same power, in
vacation, that he has in term, by process of contempt, to punish disobe
dience of, and enforce obedience to, any decree or order made in a cause
in his court. The orders and proceedings in such case shall be certified
and entered of record, as provided in the preceding section, and shall bo
as valid as if made or had and entered in term.
Sec. 3429. Proceeding by court, where money has remained under its con
trol for seven years, without any known owner or claimant— Whenever
any money shall have remained for seven years in the custody or under
the control of any court of this commonwealth, without any owner or claim
ant thereof known to (he court, such court may cause a publication to be
made once a week for four successive weeks in some newspaper printed
in the city of Richmond, and, unless the court be a court held in the said
city, also in some other convenient newspaper printed in the state, set
ting forth the amount of such money , the source from which it was derived,
in what court and in what suit or proceeding it is held, and in whose
hands it is, and requiring all persons having any claim to the said money
to appear before the court, within such time, after the completion of the
publication, as the court may prescribe, and establish their claim.
Sec. 3430. When court may order it to be paid into treasury.— If no per
son appear and show title in himself, the court may order the money,
after deducting therefrom the costs of such publication and any other
proper charges, to be paid into the treasury of the state, and a proper
voucher for the payment to be taken and filed among the records of the
court. »
Sec. 3431. How Auditor to keep account of it.—The Auditor of Public
Accounts shall, in a book provided for the purpose, keep an account of
all money thus paid into the treasury, showing the amount thereof,
when, by whom, and under what order it was paid, and the name of the
court, and, as far as practicable, a description of the suit or proceeding in
which the order was made, and, as far as known, the names of the par
ties thereto.
Sec. 3432. How person entitled to the money may recover it.— Money
thus paid into the treasury shall be paid thereout to any person entitled
thereto, who has not asserted a claim to the same in the suit or proceed
ing in which it was held as aforesaid, upon satisfactory proof that he is
so entitled. If the claim do not exceed two hundred dollars, it may be
presented to and allowed by the Auditor of Public Accounts upon the
proof aforesaid. If the claim so presented be rejected by the Auditor,
or if the claim exceed two hundred* dollars, the claimant may proceed for
its recovery in the circuit court of the city of Richmond in the manner
provided in chapter thirty-two. If, in such proceeding, the claim be
established, the net amount thereof (after deducting costs and other
proper charges) shall be paid to the claimant out of the treasury on the
warrant of the said Auditor. The limitation prescribed by sections seven
hundred aud fifty-one and seven hundred and seventy, shall apply to
any claim presented or asserted under this section.
Sec. 3433. Clerks of circuit and corporation courts to ttle in papers of
cause copies of decrees and orders made therein, after noting, comparing,
and marking them; their fees.— Every clerk of a circuit court, and every
clerk of a corporation court, shall, within sixty days after the end of
each term of the court of which he is clerk, copy in regular order all the
decrees and orders (except orders of continuance) made and entered in
each chancery cause in the court during the term and the preceding vaca
tion, lie shall note the date of each decree or order on the copy thereof,
examine and compare the copy with the order book in which the decree
or order was entered, mark it "'examined," and file it with the papers in
the cause in which the decree or order was made, putting the copies
together in each cause in due order, separate from the other papers. He
shall be allowed for his services, as to each decree or order, the same fees
allowed for entering said decree or order on the order book.
CHAPTER CLXVIII.
of injunctions; bill of review; and appointment of receivers.
Sec. | See.
3434. Injunction to protect plaintiff in 344L, Court or Judge, awarding injunction
suit for specific property. to restrain rerroval of property
3135. Billot review, within what time al- out ot state, may require forth-
lowed; injunction may be award- coming bond,
ed on it. 3442. Injunction bond; when required,
3430. Jurisdiction of in junctions. and beiore whom given ; Its pen3437.
General jurisdiction of judges to alty and condition ; endorsement
award them. as to it on subpoena; when in3438.
When court or judge refuses injunc- junction of no effect.
tiou, judge of court of appeals , 3443. How surety in forthcoming bond
may award it. may obtain additional security.
3433. To what clerk, judge's order for in- 3444. Dissolution of injunction in vacajuttction
directed. tiou.
3440. Equity of injunction bill to be 344!\. Damages on dissolution.
shown by affidavit or otherwise. 3446. Dismission of injunction bill.
Notice to adverse party of appli
cation may be required.
Sec. 3434. Injunction to protect plaintiff in suit for specific property.—
An injunction may be awarded to protect any plaintiff in a suit for specine
property, pending either at law or in equity, against injury from the
sale, removal, or concealment of such property.
Sec. 3435. Hill of review, within what time allowed ; injunction may be
awarded on it. —A court or judge allowing a bill of review* may award
an injunction to the decree to be reviewed. But no bill of review shall
be allowed to a final decree unless it be exhibited within onp year next
after such decree, except that an infant, married woman, or insane per
son, may exhibit the same within one year after the removal of his or
her disability. And in no case shall such bill be filed without leave of
the court first obtained, unless it be for error of law apparent upon the
face of the record. The foregoing exception shall not apply to a mar
ried woman who may exhibit a bill for review of a decree relating to or
affecting her separate estate.
Sec. 3430. Jurisdiction of injunctions.— Jurisdiction of a bill for an
injunction to any judgment, act, or proceeding, shall be in the circuit
court of the county, or the circuit or corporation court of the corporation,
in which the judgment is rendered, or the act or proceeding is to
.... 1 j j
be done, or is doing or apprehended.
Sec. 3437. General jurisdiction of judges to award them.— Every judge
of a circuit or corporation court shall have a general jurisdiction in
awarding injunctions, whether the judgment or proceeding enjoined be
in or out of his circuit or corporation, or the party against whose pro
ceedings the injunction be asked resides in or out of the same.
,<ieP' ^ nen coup* or j'"l"e refuses injunction, judge of court of
appeals may award it. —When a circuit or corporation court, or a judge
thereof, shall refuse to award an injunction, a copy of the proceedings in
court, and the original papers presented to the judge in vacation, with
his order of refusal, may be presented to a judge of the court of appeals,
who may thereupon award the injunction.
Sec. 3439. To what clerk, judge's order for injunction directed.— Even-
order, awarding an injunction, made under the two preceding sections,
shall be directed to the clerk of such court as has jurisdiction under sec
tion thirty-four hundred and thirty-six and the proceedings thereupon
shall be as if the order had been made by such court, or the judge
thereof.
Sec. 3440. Equity of injunction kill to be shown by affidavit or otherwise.
jj0jjce (0 adverse party of application may be required.— No injunction
shall be awarded in vacation, or in court, in a case not ready for hearing,
unless the court or judge be satisfied, by affidavit or otherwise, of the
the plaintiff's equity ; and any court or judge may require that reason
able notice shall be given to the adverse party, or his attorney-at-law or
in fact, of the time and place of moving for it before the injunction is
awarded, if, in the opinion of the court or judge it be proper that such
notice should be given,
Sec. 3441. Conrt or judge, awarding injunction to restrain removal of
pr0perty out of state, may require forthcoming bond.— A court or judge,
awarding an injunction to restrain the removal of property out of the
state, may require bond to be given before such officer, and in such
penalty as the court or judge may direct, with condition to have the
property forthcoming to abide the future order or decree of the court,
and, unless such bond be given, may order the officer serving its process
to take possession of the property, and keep it until the bond be given,
or until the further order of the court.
Sec. 3442. Injunction bond; when required, and before whom given; its
penalty and condition; endorsement on subpoena; when injunction of no
effect.— An injunction* (except in the case of a personal representative or
other person from whom, in the opinion of the court or judge awarding
^'ie Bame' ,mly be improper to require bond), shall not take effect, until
bond be given in such penalty as the court or judge awarding it may
direct, with condition, as to the court shall seem just and proper in the
case, either to pay the judgment or decree (proceedings on which are
enjoined) or to pay the value of the property levied on by the officer,
where there has been a levy, or to have the property forthcoming to
abide the future order or decree of court, and, in either case, to pay all
such costs as may be awarded against the party obtaining the injunction,
and all such damages as may be incurred, in case the injunction shall be
dissolved, and with a further condition, if a forthcoming bond has been
given under said judgment or decree, to indemnify and save harmless the
sureties in said forthcoming bond and their representatives against all
loss or damage in consequence of said suretyship, or, if the injunction be
not to proceedings on a judgment or decree, with such condition as the
said court or judge may prescribe. The bond shall be given before the
clerk of the court in which judgment or decree is, and, in other
before the clerk of the court in which the suit is wherein the injunction
is awarded. If the bond be not given before the summons is issued, the
clerk shall endorse thereon that the injunction is not to take effect until
the bond be given, and the clerk, who afterwards takes the bond, shall
endorse that it is given : Provided houvnr, that if the bond required by
this section be not given within sixty days from the date at which the
injunction was awarded, then the order awarding such injunction shall
be of no effect.
Sec 3 443. How surety in forthcoming bond may obtain additional
security. —Any surety in such forthcoming bond, or his personal repretentative,
may move for and obtain an order for other or additional
security, in like manner as a defendant in the injunction may.
Sec. 3444. Dissolution of injunction in vacation.—The judge of a circuit
■or corporation court in which a case is pending, wherein an injunction i
awarded, may in vacation dissolve* such injunction, after reasonable
notice to the adverse party. His order for the dissolution shall be
directed to the clerk of said court, who shall record the same in the order
book .
Sec. 344"). Damages on dissolution. — Where an injunction to stay pro-
ceedings on a judgment or decree for money is dissolved wholly or in
part, there shall be paid to the party having such judgment or decree,
damages at t he rate of ten per centum per annum from the time the injunction
took effect until the dissolution, on such sum as appears to be due,
including the costs; but the court, wherein the injunction is, may direct
that no such damages be paid, or such portion thereof as it may deem
just. The clerk of any circuit court which, or the judge of which, makes
an order dissolving an injunction to a judgment, shall certify to the clerk
of the court wherein the judgment was, the order of dissolution, and also
the time the injunction took effect, if that appear in his office. In a case
wherein a forthcoming bond was forfeited, and no execution thereon,
before the injunction took effect, a court awarding such execution shall
include in its judgment or decree damages as aforesaid ; in other cases
they shall be included in the execution on the judgment or decree to
which the injunction was awarded. The damages shall be in satisfaction
of so much of the interest for the time they are given as may not exceed
said damages.
Sec. 344b\ Dismission of injunction bill.— Where an injunction is wholly
dissolved, the bill shall stand dismissed of course with costs, unless suffi
cient cause be shown against such dismission at the next term of the
court after the dissolution. The clerk of the court shall enter such dis-
mission m the last day of said term.
Sec. 3447. Errors, which might be corrected on writ of error coram
vobis, may be corrected on motion, after notice.— For any clerical error, or
error in fact for which a judgment or decree may be reversed or corrected
on writ of error coram cohis, the same may be reversed or corrected, on
motion after reasonable notice, by the court, or if the judgment or decree
be in a circuit court, by the judge thereof in vacation,
Sec. 3-148. Judgment on confession, a release of errors.— A judgment on
confession shall be equal to a release of errors, t
Sec. 3449. For what, a judgment not to be reversed.— No judgment or
decree shall bo stayed or reversed for the appearance of either party,
being under the age of twenty-one years, by attorney, if the verdict
(where there is one), or the judgment or decree, be for him and not to
his prejudice; or for want of warrant of attorney; or for the want of a
similiter, or any misjoining of issue ; or .for any informality in the entry
of the judgment or decree by the clerk ; or for the omission of the name
of any juror; or because it may not appear that the verdict was rendered
by the number of jurors required by law; or for any defect, imperfection,
or omission in the pleadings, which could not be regarded on demurrer;
or for any other defect, imperfection, or omission, which might have
been taken advantage of on a demurrer or answer, but was not so taken
advantage of.
Sec. 3450. Same as to decrees only.— No decree shall be reversed for
want of replication to the answer, where the defendant has taken depositions
as if there had been a replication ; and when it appears that
there was a full and fair hearing on the merits, and that substantial jus
tice has been done, a decree shall not be reversed for want of a replica
tion, although the defendant may not have taken depositions; nor shall
it be reversed, for any informality in the proceedings, at the instance of
a party who has taken depositions,
Sec. 3451. Error in judgment or decree, when by default, may, on motion.
he corrected in same court ; and, in other cases, by same court or judge,
when there is something in record by which to amend; or excess may be
released. Within what time, motion to be made.— The court in which there
is a judgment by default, or a decree on a bill taken for confessed, or the
judge of said court in the vacation thereof, may, on motion, reverse such
judgment or decree for any error for which an appellate court might
reverse it, if the following section was not enacted, and give such judg-
^ " ^
ment or decree as ought to be given. And the court in which is rendered
a judgment or decree, in a cause wherein there is in a declaration or
pleading, or in the record of the judgment or decree, any mistake, mis
calculation, or misreeital of any name, sum, quantity, or time, when the
same is right in any part of the record or proceedings, or when there is
any verdict, report of a commissioner, bond, or other writing, whereby
such judgment or decree may be safely amended ; or in which a judg
ment is rendered on a forthcoming bond for a sum larger than by tfie
execution or warrant of distress appears to be proper, or on a verdict in
an action for more damages than are mentioned in the declaration ; or, in
the vacation of the court in which any such judgment or decree is ren
dered, the judge thereof may, on the motion of any party, amend such
judgment or decree according to the truth and justice of the case ; or, in
any such case the party obtaining such judgment or decree may, in the
same court, at any future term, by an entry of record, or in the vacation
by a writing signed by him, attested by the clerk, and filed among the
papers of the cause, release a part of the amount of his judgment or
decree ; and such release shall have the effect of an amendment, and
make the judgment or decree operate only for what is not released.
Every motion under this chapter shall be after reasonable notice to the
opposite party, his agent or attorney in fact or at law, and shall be within
three years from the date of the judgment or decree.
Sec. 3452. What appellate court to do in a rase in which there might be
redress under the preceding section.— No appeal, writ of error, orw/x-wrfeos
shall hi- allowed by an appellate court or judge for any matter for which
a judgment or decree is liable to be reversed or amended, on motion as
aforesaid, by the court which rendered it, or the judge thereof, until such
motion be made and overruled in whole or in part. And when an appel
late court hears a case wherein an appeal, writ of error, or xu/Hmtdeag has
been allowed, if it appears that, either before or since the same was
allowed, the judgment or decree has been so amended, the appellate
court shall affirm the judgment or decree, unless there be other error;
and if it appear that the amendment ought to be, and has not been
made, the appellate court may make such amendment, and atlirm in like
manner the judgment or decree, unless there be other error.
Sec. 3453. Appeals of right from county court.— Any person, who thinks
himself aggrieved by an order in a controversy concerning the probate
of a will, or the appointment or qualification of a personal representative,
guardian, curator, or committee, or concerning a mill, roadway, ferry,
wharf, or landing, may, in a county court, during the term at which such
order is made, appeal therefrom of right, with or without a my*fniedta*t
as he may elect, on giving bond, a* prescribed by section thirty-four
hundred and seventy.
Sec. 3454. In what cases, petition for appeal, writ of error, or snperse(leas,
may be presented.— Any person, who thinks himself aggrieved by
an order in a controversy concerning the probate of a will, or the
appointment or qualification of a personal representative, guardian,
curator, or committee, or concerning a mill, roadway, ferry, wharf, or
landing; or any person, who is a party to any case in chancery wherein
there is a decree or order dissolving an injunction, or requiring money to
be paid, or the possession or title of property to be changed, or adjudi
cating the principle? of a cause,* or to any civil case wherein there is a
final t judgment, decree, or order, may present a petition, if the case be
in chancery, for an appeal from the decree or order; and, if not in chan
cery, for a writ of error or supersedeas to the judgment or order, except as
follows :
Sec. 3455. When prohibited. — No petition shall be presented for an
appeal from, or writ of error or miperxedeas to, any final judgment, decree,
or order, whether the commonwealth be a party or not, J which shall
have been rendered more than one year before the petition is presented ;
nor to any judgment of a county or corporation court, which is rendered
on an appeal from a judgment of a justice, ? nor to a judgment, decree,
or order of any other court, when the controversy is for a matter less in
value or amount than five hundred dollars,l| exclusive of costs, unless
there be drawn in question a freehold or franchise, or the title H or
bounds of lands, or some matter not merely pecuniary : Pmr'nlid however,
that if the final decree from which an appeal is asked, is a decree refus
ing a bill of review to a decree rendered more than six months prior
thereto, no appeal from or xaperxideux to such decree so refusing a bill of
review shall be allowed, unless the petition be presented within six
months from the date of such decree.
Sec. 3458. How person desiring to present such petition may procure suspension
of execution. — At the instance of any person who desires to pre-
sent such petition, the court in which the judgment, decree, or order is,
may, during the term at which it is rendered or made, or the judge ren
dering such judgment, order, or decree, may, within thirty days after
such term is ended, make an order suspending the execution of such
judgment, decree, or order, for a reasonable time, to be specified in such
order, when such person shall give bond, before the clerk of said court,
in such penalty as the court or judge may require, with a condition recit-
ing such judgment, decree, or order, and the intention of said person to
present .such petition, and providing for the payment of all Buch dam
ages as may accrue to any person by reason of the said suspension, in
case a mperxediaa to such judgment, decree, or order, should not be
allowed, and be effectual within the time bo specified.
Sec 3457. Transcript of record to be exhibited with snch petition. Per-
80n aPpl.vin& fi>r transcript to notify opposite party or his counsel. Certifi
cate of clerk to transcript.— With such petition there shall be a transcript
of the record,* of so much of the case wherein the judgment, decree, or
order is, as will enable the couit, or judge thereof in vacation, to whom
the petition is to be presented, properly to decide on such petition, and
enable the court, if the petition be granted, properly to decide the ques
tions that may arise before it. The person intending to apply for such
transcript, shall notify the opposite party, or his counsel, if either reside
in this state, of his intention, and no clerk of any court shall make out
and deliver such transcript, unless it is made to appear that such notice
was given. A certificate of the clerk stating the fact, shall, in every case
accompany the transcript when presented to an appellate court or judge,
It shall be sufficient to give such notice to the attorney, who appeared as
counsel for the adverse party in the court which rendered the judgment,
decree, or order, unless such party has retained other counsel to represent
him in the appellate court, and that fact is known to the petitioner; in
which case, the notice shall be given to such counsel.
Sec. 3458. How the record made up.—In no case shall the clerk, unless
specially directed in writing so to do, copy into the record any process, any
order at rules, order of continuance, return, evidence of service of pro
cess, any affidavit of parties or witnesses, or any commission or notice
to take depositions, captions thereto or certificate of their having been
sworn to, but the name of each witness and the time of taking bis depo
sition, and for whom taken, Fhall be stated at the head thereof. Nor
shall hecopy, unless so directed, any injunction, appeal, or mperxtdea*
bond, any certificate of the acknowledgment or proof of a deed or other
writing, or any report t or account made by a commissioner to which
there is no exception, or any voucher in support thereof, or any opinion
of the court or judge rendering the judgment, decree, or order, or any
printed document, of which either party will furnish to the clerk a copy,
but such duplicate shall be attached to what is so copied. When a deed,
patent, will, or other writing, is once copied into the record, or into a bill
of exceptions, it shall not again be copied by the clerk, but may be idea-
tided by proper references. And when a case has before been in the
appellate court, there shall only he copied the proceedings subsequent to
the former appeal, writ of error, or mprrsetiea*.
Sec. 345!(. Where parties differ, the jndge to decide.— If the appellee, or
defendant in error, or his counsel, desire any part of the reeord to be
copied, and the appellant or his counsel object to the same, the question
may be referred to the judge of the court in which the case was decided,
who shall decide the same, and the clerk in making out the transcript
shall conform to his instructions.
Sec. 3460. Parties may agree upon what shall be copied, or may agree
the facts to be copied in lien of complete record.—The parties, or their
counsel, may agree upon such part of the record to be copied by the
clerk, as they think will enable the appelate court properly to decide the
case, or they may agree the facts, or any part of them, to be copied by
the clerk in lieu of the complete record. Such agreement, however, shall
not affect the right of either party to correct any mistake. Nothing con
tained in this and the three preceding sections shall preclude an appel
late court or judge thereof in vacation from awarding a writ of certiorari
in a proper case upon the application of either party.
Sec. 3461. Court of appeals may change rules for making out and printing
records.—The supreme court of appeals may from time to time change
or modify either of the four preceding sections, and in lieu thereof adopt
such other rules for making out and printing the records, as it may deem
proper.
Sec. 3462. If part of record unnecessarily copied, who to pay for it.— If
any paper, document, or writing be improperly or unnecessarily copied
into the record, the appellate court may, in its discretion, direct the cost
of said copying and printing the same, to be paid by the party at whose
instance such copying was so made or done.
Sec. 3463. Appellate court, or, &c, may inspect former record before it;
power to award writ of certiorari.— The appellate court, or a judge
thereof, may, when a case has before been in such court, inspect the
record upon the former appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas ; and such
court, or any judge thereof in vacation, may, in any case, after reasonable
notice to the adverse party, award a writ of certiorari to the clerk of the
court below, and have brought before it, when part of a record is omit
ted, the whole or any part of such record.
Sec. 3464. Petition for appeal, &c, how prepared and certified.—A peti-
tion for an appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas shall assign errors; and it
6hall not be presented until some counsel or attorney of the appellate
court shall certify that, in his opinion, it is proper that the decision
should be reviewed by such court.
Sec. 3465. To whom presented ; endorsement of judge thereon.— The
petition may be presented to the court wherein the case is to be docketed,
if the appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas be allowed, or to a judge
thereof; or, if the judgement, decree, or order be of a county court, to
any circuit judge; and if it be presented to a judge, he shall endorse
thereon the day and year he receives it.
Sec. 3466. When to be rejected; when rejection final.—The petition
shall be rejected when it is from an interlocutory decree or order, in a
case which the court or judge to whom it is presented deems it most
proper should be proceeded in further in the court below before an appeal
is allowed therein. In a case wherein the court shall deem the judgment,
decree, or order complained of, plainly right, and reject it on that ground,
and the order of rejection so states, no other petition therein shall after
wards be entertained. But the rejection of such petition by a judge in
vacation shall not prevent the presentation of such petition to the court
at its next term.
Sec. 3467. When anneal, &c, allowed; when supersedeas awarded.—
Any court or judge to whom a petition is duly presented, if of opinion
that the decision complained of ought to be reviewed, may allow an
appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas, and in a case of appeal (as well as of
a writ of error), may award a supersedeas to stay proceeding?, either in
whole or in part.
Sec. 3468. When appeal, &c, denied by circuit court or its jud^e, appli
cation may be to court of appeals ; if allowed, where docketed and heard.
When a judgment, decree, or order shall be rendered by a county court,
and any party deeming himself aggrieved by said judgment, decree, or
order, shall apply to the circuit court having jurisdiction over such
county, or to a judge of a circuit court in vacation, for an appeal, writ of
error, or supersedeas, and the same shall be denied by such court or judge,
if the case be one of which the supreme court of appeals would other
wise have jurisdiction, application may be made immediately to the said
court, or a judge thereof in vacation, for an appeal, writ of error, or
supersedeas, as may be proper in the case; and if the appeal, writ of
error, or supersedeas be allowed, it shall be docketed and heard in the
Baid court at its proper place of session.
Sec. 3469. In what court appeal, &c, to be docketed ; what process to
issue. —Every appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas, when it is from or to a
decree, order, or judgment of the court of any county, shall be docketed
in the circuit court which has jurisdiction over such county; and when
it is from or to a decree, order, or judgment of any other court, it shall
be docketed in the court of appeals, at the place of session, where it may
be heard and determined according to sections thirty hundred and
eighty-nine, thirty hundred and ninety, thirty hundred and ninety-one,
and thirty hundred and ninety-two respectively. The clerk of the court,
wherein it is docketed, shall issue a summons against the parties inter
ested, other than the petitioners, that they may be heard, and also issue
any supersedeas which may be awarded.
Sec. 3470. Bond of appellants or petitioners; penalty and conditionExcept
where an appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas is proper to protect
the estate of a decedent, infant, convict, or insane person, the same shall
not take effect until bond be given by the appellants or petit ioners, or
one or more of them, or some other person, in a penalty to be fixed by
the court or judge, by, or in which, the appeal, writ of error, or superse
deas is allowed or entered (which penalty, in a case where the judgment,
decree, or order, proceedings on which, in whole or in part, are stayed
by supersedeas, is for the payment of money, shall in no case be less than
the amount of money, the payment of which is stayed, with interest
and costs), with condition, if a supersedeas be awarded, to perform and
satisfy the judgment, decree, or order, or the part thereof, proceedings
on which are stayed, in case the said judgment, decree, or such part, be
affirmed, or the appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas, be dismissed, and
also to pay all damages, costs, and fees, which may be awarded against
or incurred by the appellants or petitioners, in the appellate court, and
all actual damages incurred in consequence of the supersedeas ; and if it
be an appeal from a decree or order dissolving an injunction, or dis
missing a bill of injunction, with a further condition to indemnify and
save harmless the surety in the injunction bond against all loss or dam
age in consequence of his suretyship; and with condition, when no super
sede* is is awarded, to pay such specific damages, and such costs and fees,
as may be awarded or incurred.
Sec 3471. When and by whom taken; endorsement on process from
court of appeals.—Such bond shall be taken by the clerk of the court in
which an appeal is entered of right, before such entry, or w here an
appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas, is allowed on petition, by the clerk
of the appellate court, before process is issued thereupon, except where
the court of appeals is the appellate court, the clerk whereof shall
endoree on the summons or supersedeas that it is not to be effectual until
such bond be given before the clerk of the court below, who shall take
said bond and endorse on the same process that it has been given, and
the names of the sureties therein.
Sec. 3472. How surety in snch bond may obtain indemnity.— On the
motion of any surety in such bond, after reasonable notice to or a rule
against his principal, the appellate court may order bond to be given, in
such time as it may prescribe, with sufficient surety to indemnify and
save harmless such surety against all loss or damage in consequence of
his suretyship ; and if such order be not complied with, may order the
appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas to be dismissed.
Sec. 3473. Where appeal is of ri?;ht ; when record to be delivered to clerk
of circuit court; when court to dismiss appeal. — In a case where there is
an appeal of right, the clerk of the court from whose order such appeal
is taken, shall deliver a copy of the record to the clerk of the circuit
court as soon as practicable, unless the appellant direct him not to
deliver it. If such direction be given, he shall deliver to the clerk of the
circuit court a copy of the entry of the appeal, and a certificate of such
direction. On the production of such copy and certificate, the circuit
court shall enter a dismission of the appeal.
Sec. 3474. Limitation of appeals, writs of error, and supersedeas.— No
process shall issue upon an appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas .dlowed to
or from a final judgment, decree, or order, if when the record with the
petition required by section thirty-four hundred and fifty-seven is delivered
to the clerk of the appellate court, there shall have elapsed one year
since the date of such final judgment, decree, or order, or six months, if
the decree appealed from was a decree refusing a bill of review to a final
decree rendered more than six months prior thereto: but the appeal,
writ of error, or supersedeas shall be dismissed whenever it appears that
one year (or six months in the case of an appeal from a decree refusing
a bill of review as before provided) has elapsed since the said date, before
the record, with the said petition, is delivered to such clerk, or before
such bond is given as is required to be given before the appeal, writ of
error, or supersedeas takes effect : Provided, that the time, which shall
elapse from presenting the petition for an appeal, writ of error, or super
sedeas, and the delivery of the record with the petition required by law
to the clerk of the appellate court as aforesaid, shall be excluded from
the computation of the said period of one year, or of six months, as the
case may be.
Sec. 3475. When their dismission final: when thev mav be re-instated,
After the dismission of an appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas, no other
appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas shall be allowed to or from the
same judgment, decree, or order. When, however, the appeal, writ of
error, or supersedeas is dismissed because the cost of printing is not paid
as required by section thirty-five hundred and seven, the court may, at
any place of session, within one year from the date of such dismission, on
motion of any party for good cause shown, set aside the same and direct
the cause to be reinstated in its proper placeon the docket; but the whole
costs then due shall be first paid by the party making such motion. And
when an appeal, writ of error, or mpirscdeaa is dismissed by reason of the
non-payment of the writ tax within the time required by law, the court,
at its first place of session after such dismission, may, on motion of any
party, for good cause shown, and upon payment of such tax, set aside the
dismission ; and thereupon the appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas may
be perfected as though no such dismission had taken place. A motion
under this section shall be after reasonable notice to the adverse party
or his counsel. ,
Sec. 3476. In case to be heard by court of appeals, how clerk thereof to
prepare record; what to be printed and how; how printed copies dis
tributed, and cost of printing paid. —In every case docketed in the court
of appeals, the clerk of the court, where the case is docketed, shall make
a table of contents to the whole record. Of the petition, so much of the
record as the counsel for any party interested or the court may direct,
and the table of contents, the clerk shall cause twelve copies to be printed,
unless a larger number be ordered by the court, preserving in the margin
of the printed record the paging of the record from the court below,
which shall be used in printing and returned to the clerk's office. The
clerk shall take care that the printing be properly done. Of the copies
printed, he shall deliver one to each judge, two to the counsel on each
side, retain one in his office, transmit one to the clerk of the court below
(in which the case was originally decided), and deliver the other copy to
the reporter. The cost of the printing, after being allowed by the court,
shall be paid out of the treasury.
Sec. 3477. Clerks to advertise for bids for the printing.—The clerks of the
court of appeals at Richmond, Staunton, and Wytheville, respectively, shall,
annually, in the month of June, solicit proposals by advertising in some
newspaper published in their respective localities, for the priuting, for
one year, required by the preceding section to be done,
Sec. 3478. What the bids to state.—The proposals shall state the amount
per page of fifteen hundred ems, small pica type, and include the paper,
printing, binding, and a neat cover, with the style of the case, and the
court from which the record comes, neatly printed thereon,
Sec. 3179. How the contracts awarded; the bond required; how cost of
printing certified and paid. —The several clerks shall award the contracts
for such printing to the lowest responsibly bidders in their respective
localities, and take from them bond, with ample surety, in a penalty
double the amount of the work to be executed, to be ascertained by the
amount of the work of the preceding year. The accounts for such print
ing shall be certified by the clerks respectively and paid out of I he pub
lic treasury.
Sec. 8480. How docket of causes ready for hearing made ont : ii
what order cases heard. —Annually, before the court of appeals com
mences its session at Richmond, Wytheville, and Staunton, respectively,
the clerk at each place shall make out a docket of the causes then ready
for hearing. Those at each place shall be numbered by figures, and shall
be docketed in the order in which the causes were matured, and be
heard in the same order; except, that upon the docket at Wytheville
and Staunton, the clerk shall docket the cases from each circuit separately,
in the order in which they may be matured.
Sec. 3481. What eases heard out of turn.— The court may hear out of
turn cases concerning the probate of a will, or the appointment or quali-
fication of a personal representative, guardian, curator or committee, or
concerning a mill, roadway, ferry, wharf, or landing, and any others
which it may see good cause for so hearing.
Sec. 3482. On what appeals, circuit court may hear oral testimony.— On
an appeal from an order of a county court, in a controversy concerning
the probate of a will, or the appointment or qualification of a personal
representative, guardian, curator, or committee, or concerning a mill,
roadway, ferry, wharf, or landing, witnesses may be examined in the
circuit court ; but in no case shall the court of appeals hear oral testi
mony.
Sec. 3483. Appeals, &t., in circuit court may be heard and determined in
vacation; how judgment certified and entered; its effect.— The judge of a
circuit court in which an appeal, writ of error, or sipcrsedias is required
to be docketed, may, in vacation, by consent of parties or on reasonable
notice by either party to the other or his attorney, hear and determine
the case and render such judgment therein as might be rendered by the
eaid court in term. The judgment so rendered and all the proceedings
shall be certified by the judge to the clerk of the said court, who shall
forthwith enter the same in the proper order book, and when so entered
they shall have the same force and effect as if had or made and entered
by the said court in term.
Sec. 34S4. Uulc of decision, where the ev idence (and not the facts) is certi
fied. —When a case at law, civil or criminal, is tried by a jury, and a party
excepts to the judgment or action of the court in granting or refusing to
grant a new trial on a motion to set aside the verdict of a jury on the
ground that it is contrary to the evidence; or when a case at law is
decided by a court or judge without the intervention of a jury and a party
excepts to the decision on the ground that it is contrary to the evidence;
and tho evidence (not the facts) is certified ; the rule of decision in the
appellate court, in considering the evidence in the case, shall be as on a
demurrer to the evidence by the party excepting*
Sec. 3485. Decision of appellate court.—The appellate court shall affirm
the judgment, decree, or order, if there be no error therein, and reverse
the same, in whole or in part.t if erroneous, and enter such judgment,
decree, or order, as the court whose error is sought to be corrected ought
to have entered, affirming in those cases where the voices on both sides
are equal : Provhlcd however, that in order to declare, in any case, any law
null and void by reason of its repugnance to the constitution of the United
States or the constitution of this state, it shall be necessary that a majority
of the judges elected to the supreme court of appeals shall concur.
Sec. 34SG. What damages awarded appellee.— When any judgment,
decree, or order is affirmed, damages shall be aw arded to the appellee ;
such damages, when the judgment, decree, or order, is for the payment of
money, shall be the interest to which the parties are legally entitled in
the cause, (to be computed upon the whole amount of the recovery,
including interest and costs,) from the time the appeal, writ of error, or
mpened-eas took effect, until the affirmance, or if the affirmance be by the
court of appeals, until a copy of its decision is entered in the order book
of the court below, which damages shall be in satisfaction of all interest
during that time. When the judgment, decree, or order, is not for the
payment of any money, except costs, the damages shall be such specific
sum as the appellate court may deem reasonable, not being more than one
hundred dollars, nor, in the court of appeals, less than thirty dollars.
Sec. 3487. When circuit court, reversing judgment or decree, may retain
cause. — If any judgment, decree, or order of a county court be reversed or
affirmed, the cause shall not be remanded to said court for further pro
ceedings, but shall be retained in the circuit court, and there proceeded
in, unless by consent of the parties, or forgood cause shown, the appel
late court direct otherwise.
Sec. 3488. When clerk of court of appeals to transmit its decisions.—
When any term of the court of appeals is ended, or sooner, if the court
gQ djrgct^ tjie cierk thereof shall certify, and, by mail or otherwise, trans
mit its decisions to the clerk of the court below, except that it shall not
be his duty to certify or transmit a copy of a decree or judgment of affirm
ance, unless the appellee or defendant in error shall have paid all fees
due from him in the case, or shall endorse on such copy so much of the
decree or judgment, for the benefit of the clerk, as the unpaid fees shall
amount to. If any clerk fail to comply with this section for twenty days,
except as aforesaid, he shall forfeit fifty dollars to any person aggrieved
thereby.
Sec. 3489. Postage to be paid by him, and repaid out of treasury.— On all
decisions so transmitted by mail, the clerk shall pay the postage. Hi?
accounts for such postage, verified by oath, may, from time to time, at
intervals not exceeding eighteen months, be certified by the court of
appeals to the Auditor of Public Accounts for payment out of the
treasury.
Sec. 3490. How decision of court of appeals entered in court from which
cause came; issue of execution thereon, &c—The court from which any
case may have come to the court of appeals, shall enter the decision of
the appellate court as its own, and execution may issue thereon accord
ingly. If such decision be received by the clerk of the court below in
vacation, he shall enter it of record in his order book, and thereupon
such execution may issue and such proceedings be had in the case as
would have been proper if the decision had been entered in court.*
Sec. 3491. Order books, dockets, &c, of district courts, to remain in cus-
tody of clerks of court of appeals; their duties in respect thereto; how
printed and manuscript orders disposed of, &e.—The order books, dockets,
and other office books belonging to the several district courts, shall
remain in the custody of the clerks of the supreme court of appeals at
the places of session respectively having jurisdiction over the counties,
or a majority of them, over which the said district courts respectively
had jurisdiction. The said clerks shall furnish transcripts of the records
and proceedings of the said district courts when required, and perform
all other duties in respect to records and proceedings of the said district
courts as might have been performed by the clerks of the said district
courts if the said courts had continued to exist. All printed and manu
script orders, and other papers pertaining to cases decided in the said
district courts, shall remain in the custody of the clerks of the circuit
courts at the several places where the said district courts held their
sessions, who shall be charged with the same duties in respect to said
records and papers as might have been performed by the clerks of the
said district courts respectively, if said courts had continued to exist,
and who shall receive for any such service fees similar to those charged
by the clerks of district courts for such services.
Sec. 3492. When court of appeals may rehear and review case decided
by it ; when application therefor to be made ; where rehearing, &c, to take
place ; where decision entered.— The Supreme Court of Appeals, on the
application of a party, shall rehear and review any case decided by the
said court, if one of the judges who decided the case adversely to the
applicant certifies that, in his opinion, there is good cause for such
rehearing. If the case was decided at the place of session where it was
then pending, and within the last fifteen days of the term, the applica
tion shall be made before the end of the said term or within fifteen days
after the commencement of the next term wherever held. In all other
cases, the application shall be made within such time and under such
rules and regulations as the court may prescribe. Such rehearing and
review may be at any place of session ; and the judgment, decree, or
order made thereon shall be entered on the order book where it is made,
and, if not made at the place of session where the case was pending at
the time it was originally determined, it shall be certified to the clerk at
the place of session where the case was pending as aforesaid.
CHAPTER CLXXI.
GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO CIVIL CASES.
Ste. Sec.
3493. Provisions under this title, rules for S497. Where Judgment for specific per-
atl courts. sonal property affirmed, or iniuno3494.
flow jurisdiction determined, where tion to such judgment dissolved,
proceeding is on a penM bond. damages may be given for deten3495.
Who may execute bond for obtain- tlon of property ; how party enti-
ing a writ or order. tied to damages to proceed.
3496. How proceedings may be in cases
pending when Code takes effect.
Sec. 3493. Provisions under this title, rules for all courts.— All things con-
tained in any chapter under this title, not restricted by their nature, or
by express provision, to a particular court, shall be the rules of decision
and proceeding in all courts within this state.
Sec. 3404. How jurisdiction determined, where proceeding is on a penal
bond. —Where the proceeding before a court or justice is on a penal
bond, with condition for the payment of money, the jurisdiction shall be
determined as if the undertaking to pay such money had been without
a penalty. And where jurisdiction depends on the amount of a judg
ment, if it be on such bond, the jurisdiction shall be determined by the
«um, payment whereof will discharge the judgment.
Sec. 3495. Who njay execute bond for obtaining a writ or order.— A bond
for obtaining any writ or order, in term or vacation, may be executed by
any person with sufficient surety, though neither be a party to the case.
Sec. 3496. How proceedings may be in cases pending when Code takes
effect.— In any case pending at the time this Code takes effect, for a cause
which arose theretofore, the proceedings, so far as it may not be practica
ble for them to conform to the other sections of this Code, may be
according to the laws in force on the day before it takes effect.
Sec. 3497. Where jndginent for specific personal property affirmed, or
injunction to such judgment dissolved, damages may be given for detention
of property ; how party entitled to damages to proceed.— When a judgment
for specific personal property is affirmed by an appellate court, or an
injunction to such judgment is dissolved, the person who is entitled to
execution of such judgment, or who would be entitled if execution had
not been had, may, on motion to the court from which such execution
has issued, or might issue, after four weeks' notice to the defendant or
his personal representative, have a jury impaneled to ascertain the dam
ages sustained by reason of the detention of such property, subsequent to
such judgment, or if it was on a verdict, subsequent to such verdict; and
judgment shall be rendered for the damages, if any^so ascertained.
Sec. 3498. Fees of Secretary of Commonwealth, anil clerk of House of
Delegates.— The Secretary of the Commonwealth may charge, for services
rendered in his office, the following fees, to be paid by the person for
whom the service is rendered, at the time it is done: For a testimonial,
one dollar and fifty cents; for a copy of any paper, if on one sheet, one
dollar; and for each sheet after the first, seventy-five cents ; for issuing a
commission to a commissioner in another state, five dollars ; for issuing a
commission to each notary and inspector appointed by the Governor,
three dollars ; for making out a requisition for a fugitive from justice
demanded of another state, two dollars; for issuing a warrant for the
arrest of a fugitive demanded by the executive authority of another
state, t wo dollars. The clerk of the House of Delegates, for a copy of an
act of assembly, if in one sheet, one dollar, and for each sheet after the
first, seventy-five cents. These fees shall be paid by the person for whom
the service is rendered at the time it is done.
Sec. 3499. Of certain other officers. Of surveyors.— Each of the officers
hereinafter mentioned, may, for services performed by him by virtue of
his office, charge the following fees, to-wit :
A Surveyor.
For all surveying actually done, for the first one hundred poles,
or any less distance, long measure, per pole $0 01
After the first one hundred poles, long measure, per pole OOi
For calculating the quantity of less than six courses or lines 50
When land is divided, for calculating each division of less than
six courses 50
For every course or line more than six 03
For making a plat of six courses, or less 50
For every course more than six 03
For recording a plat and certificate, if not more than six courses.. 50
For every course above six 03
For a copy of a plat and certificate, where there are not more
than six courses 50
For every course above six 03
For making an entry 50
For a copy of an entry 17
For every search, where no copy is required 124
For giving a receipt for a warrant or any other paper 17
For traveling to the place of surveying, and returning, per mile.... 05
If surveying be done at different places, on the same tour, the mileage
shall be apportioned among the different surveys according to their dis
tance from the residence of the surveyor or deputy and each other, so
that the surveyor shall not receive more than five cents a mile for going
and returning for any one trip.
Notaries and justices of the peace.
Sec. 3500. —Where there is a protest by a notary, for the record
thereof, making out instrument of protest under his official seal,
and notice of dishonor to one person besides the maker of a note
or acceptor of a bill $1 00
For every additional notice 10
For taking and certifying the acknowledgment of any deed or
writing 50
For administering and certifying an oath, unless it be the affidavit
of a witness ; or acknowledgment of bail ; or issuing process of
attachment 25
For taking and certifying affidavits or depositions of witnesses,
where done in an hour 75
If not done in an hour, for any additional time, at the rate per
hour of 75
For every commission of lunacy upon which a justice may sit, to
be paid out of the lunatic's estate 1 00
Tor all services which a justice may perform on the trial of war
rants in which the commonwealth is not plaintiff, including the
issuing of warrants and subpu-nas, swearing witnesses, taxing
costs, and issuing executions, to be taxed in the costs and received
as other costs are 50
For other services, the same fees as the clerk of a county or corporation
court for like services.
Sec. 3501. Of commissioners in chancery.—For services which might be
performed by notaries, the like fees for like services; for any other0
service, such fees as the court by which the commissioner is appointed,
may from time to time prescribe, not exceeding seventy-five cents, where
less tban an hour is employed, and if more than an hour be employed,
not exceeding the rate of seventy-five cents for each hour; but nothing
herein contained shall affect the fees of commissioners in chancery resid
ing in the cities of Richmond, Norfolk, and Alexandria.
Sec 3502. Their fees in certain cities.— A commissioner in chancery,
residing in the cities of Richmond, Norfolk, or Alexandria, may charge
for services which might be performed by a notary, the like fees for like
services, and for any other services, such fees as the court, by which the
commissioner is appointed, may from time to time prescribe, not
exceeding one dollar, where less than an hour is employed ; and if more
than an hour be employed, not exceeding the rate of one dollar for each
hour.
Sec. 3503. To make affidavit of time employed; right to require pre-pay-
ment of fees, or security therefor, before making out or returning report.—
A commissioner returning a report shall annex thereto an affidavit, that
he was diligently employed not less than hours in performing the
services for which the fees stated at the foot thereof are charged. Until
such affidavit is made, no bill shall be made out for said fees. A com
missioner shall not be compelled to make out or return a report until his
fees therefor be paid, or security given him to pay so much as may be
adjudged right by the court to which the report is to be returned, or, if it
be a circuit court, by the judge thereof in vacation, unless the court or
judge see cause to order it to be made out and returned without such
payment or security, and shall so order.
Sec. 3504. Officer to state fees, &c, on report, &c—A notary or other
officer returning affidavits or depositions of witnesses, and a commis
sioner returning a report, shall state at the foot thereof the fees therefor,
to whom charged, and, if paid, by whom.
Clerks of county, corporation, and circuit courts.
Sec. 3505. Where a writing is admitted to record, under chapter
one hundred and eleven, for everything relating to it, except the
recording in the deed book, to-wit : for receiving proof or acknowledginent,
entering orders, writing on it clerk's certificate,
statement of deed in list returned to court, recording in minute
book and posting same, and embracing it in list for commis
sioner of the revenue $0 50
For every deed, paper, or other writing examined which may have
been recorded by any predecessor of his in office 10
For recording a plat of not more than six courses, or for a copy
thereof 60
For every course above six 03
For recording in the deed book such writing, and all matter there
with (except plate), or for recording anything not otherwise pro
vided for, for every thirty words 03
In lieu of the said allowance of three cents for thirty words, the
clerk may, for recording in the deed book, elect to charge the
following specific fees, to-wit : Where the writing is a deed of
trust or mortgage, or is a conveyance of real and personal estate,
or of real estate only 75
And where it is not such.. 25
For swearing the witnesses, and entering in the order or minute
book all orders in relation to the proof of a will which is admit
ted to record without contest, and copying such orders on the
will 50
For recording a will, and the matter recorded therewith in the will
book, at the option of the clerk, three cents for every thirty
words, or a specific fee of 30
If there be an order committing a decedent's estate to an officer,
for entering and copying such order, and the orders of appraise
ment 50
If any personal representative qualify, for swearing him and his
surety, making out bond, entering and copying on the will the
order granting probate or administration, making one copy of
such order for the representative, entering and copying orders
of appraisement, and including case in said list 1 00
If several personal representatives qualify on the same estate,
during the same term, only the same fee shall be charged as if
one had qualified, to-wit 1 00
For entering and copying an order granting a license, and adminis
tering an oath, where necessary 75
On an application for a marriage license, for administering and
writing certificate of oath, issuing and registering license, and
recording and giving receipt for certificate of the marriage 1 00
For a search for anything above a year's standing, except where
the clerk, at the request of counsel, searches for papers in a
pending cause 10
For recording a certificate and posting a copy thereof, under section
two thousand and sixty-three 50
For making out an injunction bond, administering all necessary
oaths, writing proper affidavits, making out release of errors,
copying same, and endorsing on the summons that such bond
and release are filed 75
For making out any other bond, administering all necessary oaths,
and writing proper affidavits 50
For issuing a writ in the nature of an ad quod damnum 85
On receiving the copy of a caveat, for entering such copy 25
For issuing a summons to answer a bill, with an endorsement
thereon of an injunction, or of an order, of attachment, and
recording return of same 36
For issuing any other summons, or any writ not particularly pro
vided for, and for recording the return where proper to do so... 20
For each copy of any process which goes out of the office (with
such process), to be used in serving it, one-half the fee for
issuing such process.
For noting in the process book, any decree, order, or process (except
a summons for a witness), and taking a receipt therefor 18
For postage paid by the clerk on a decree, order, or process, and
putting in or taking out of post office same, double the amount
of such postage.
For entering in any suit, or in a motion for judgment for money,
all the attorneys for each party, or the appearance in proper
person of a party having no attorney who so appears 10
For endorsing and filing each petition, declaration, bill, answer,
or other written pleading, each bill of exceptions, demurrer to
evidence, special verdict, or case agreed, each written notice of
the defence relied on in ejectment, or of a motion for judgment
for money, and each report of a commissioner, and for entering
each plea, replication, or other pleading which is not written... 15
For endorsing and filing all the depositions and affidavits of wit
nesses, filed on the same side at any one time, or all the written
interrogatories at one time, from one party to another, or all the
answers filed at one time to such interrogatories, or the excep
tions filed at one time by either party to a commissioner's report 15
If papers be filed on the side of the plaintiffs, for which no particu
lar fee is allowed, a fee (not for each, but for the whole) of 20
So, also, if papers be tiled on the side of the defendants, for which
no particular fee is allowed, a fee (not for each, but for the whole)
of. , 20
For issuing an attachment, with a copy of the rule or order for the
same (if sent out therewith), and recording the return thereof,
where proper to do so 35
For issuing a <ciY<' farim and recording the return thereof, or for
issuing a commission to examine witnesses, administering oath
when necessary as the foundation thereof, and writing affidavit.. 50
For all the rules entered in any case on the same side, at any rules,
where anything is done on such side at said rules, besides enter
ing or filing a pleading or continuing the case 25
"Where no proceedings are had in a ca.se during any rules except to
continue it, the fees shall be at the rate of twenty-five cents for
every quarter of a year the case is so continued, and no more.
For docketing any suit, or any motion for a judgment for money
(to be charged only once) 10
Except that where an action or motion is on the court docket at a
term designated for the trial of civil cases in which juries are
required, if no decision or continuance be entered in it, there
shall be a fee for putting it on the docket at the next like term, of 18
"Where a jury is impaneled, for swearing the jury and witnesses 75
"Where no jury is impaneled, if witnesses be examined by the court,
for swearing such witnesses for either party 20
Where a witness claims for his attendance, for administering an
oath to him, and entering and certifying such attendance 30
For administering any oath not before provided for, and writing a
certificate thereof, where the case requires one 15
For all judgment b, decrees, orders, and proceedings (except entries
of pleadings and matters otherwise provided for), which are
entered on the same day, for the same persons, at the election of
the clerk, three cents for every thirty words (actually written on
the minute or order book, or upon the rule book, when final
judgments are entered therein), or a specific fee of 36
For docketing under chapter one hundred and seventy-four a judg
ment, decree, bond, or recognizance 25
For entering satisfaction of same on judgment docket 20
For taxing costs in any case on one side 20
And if the case has been pending more than a year, then for every
additional year 10
When an execution is returned by a constable in a case wherein
there is no appeal from the justice's judgment, for filing the
papers 10
And if the clerk issue an execution in the case, for such execution
and all his other services in the case, until and including the
record of the return of said execution (if it be returned before
another issues) 40
For any other execution, the entry in the execution book and the
record of the return 40
For making out a transcript of the record and proceedings in any
case, in due form, so that the same may be used in an appellate
court, for every thirty words 03
And for making out, in any other manner than copying, any paper
to go out of the office, which is not otherwise provided for, the
same, or in lieu thereof, if the clerk elect, a specific fee of 25
For any copy to go out of the office, if it be not otherwise provided
for, two cents for every thirty words, or in lieu thereof, if the
clerk elect, a specific fee of 20
For annexing the seal of the court to any paper, writing the cer
tificate of the clerk accompanying it, and writing certificate of
the judge, if the clerk be requested so to do 37
For making statement, calculating interest, receiving payment of
taxes on any tract of land returned delinquent 50
For each tract of land entered in the delinquent land book, to be
paid out of the treasury 10
A clerk of a circuit or corporation court.
^ec. 3506. For a writ of xtipersrrfeas or other writ not used in a
county court 50
For making out the bond upon issuing any such writ, administer
ing necessary oaths, and writing proper affidavits 50
Upon any such writ, for endorsing and filing the petition therefor,
or when the writ is returned, for filing it, with the return
thereon 15
For filing the record upon an appeal or on such writ 15
When the clerk of the court of appeals issues process on an appeal,
writ of error, or tuptrxtdtas, for making out the bond, administer
ing necessary oaths, writing proper affidavits, and endorsing on
the process a certificate of the execution of the bond, and of the
names of the sureties therein 75
For docketing any case, a fee of eighteen cents, or if the clerk
elect, in lieu thereof three cents for every thirty words entered
on the rule bnok when it is first docketed ; this fee for docketing
to be charged but once, except that when any case, either at law
or in equity, is on the court docket, if at any term it be left
undecided, without an order of continuance, there shall be a fee
for putting it on the docket at the next term, of. 2">
After a decision by the circuit court or court of appeals, as an
appellate court, for issuing an execution, making entry thereof
in the execution book, and recording the return 7">
Unless the decision he by the court of appeals, in a case wherein
the first judgment or decree was in a county or corporation
court, in which case the fee shall be 1 00
For taxing the damages to which a party may be entitled by
reason of an injunction, appeal, writ of error, or mpeewleu* 40
The clerk of a circuit or corporation court may charge-
In chancery cases.
For issuing sin attachment or a summons, with an endorsement of
an order of attachment or injunction 50
For process for which no higher fee is allowed i'y
If when a bill or answer is filed there be filed at the s;\ine time any
exhibit, on which the clerk endorses the name of the case and
the day it is filed, for every such exhibit 0.">
When more than three exhibits are returned with a commis
sioner's report (but not annexed thereto), for endorsing and fil
ing such exhibits, a fee, not for each, but for all filed with the
same report, of. 25
If papers be filed on the side of the plaintiff, for which no fee is
before provided, a fee, not for each, but for the whole of such
papers, of. 25
And if papers be filed on the side of defen lants, for which no
fee is before provided, a fee, not for each, but for the whole of
such papers, of 25
For entering in the rule book the return of all process returnable
to the same rule day, a fee, not for each defendant named therein,
nor for every such process, but for the whole of the defendants
named in all such process, of 35
For all the rules entered in any case on the same side at the rules
for one month, when any thing is done on such side at said
rules, l>esides entering or filing a pleading or continuing the case >0
For any execution, the entry of the case in the execution book and
the record of the return, unless a higher fee be allowed therefor ">0
Sec. 3507. (If clerks of court of appeals. To whoin cost of printing
record is charged ; when case dismissed, if cost of printing not paid ;
amount taxed for printing to bo paid into treasury.— The same fees as a
clerk of the circuit court for similar services. In every case wherein
printing is done under section thirty-four hundred and seventy-six, the
clerk of the court of appeals shall charge, in such case, to the appellants
or plaintiffs in error, the cost of printing the record, which shall be paid
or secured to be paid to the clerk, before the printing is done : Provided,
that if said costs be not paid, on or before the first day of the second
term of the court in which the case is docketed, after the appeal, writ of
error, or xn/ierxedeiis is allowed, the case shall be dismissed ; which costs
so paid, or secured to be paid, shall be recovered and paid by the parties,
respectively, as the court shall direct. The clerk shall account for and
pay into the treasury of the state, the amount taxed for printing the
record ; and he shall charge for his services in superintending and
examining the printing, indexing, distributing, and filing the records,
conducting the correspondence, &c, as follows: To the appellant or
plaintiffs in error, for one copy of the record, at the rate of one and a
half cents for every ten words actually printed ; which shall be paid in
every case before the hearing.
Of sheriffs, sergeants, criers, coroners, and constables.
Sec. 3508. For serving on any person a declaration in ejectment,
or an order, notice, summons, or other process, when the body
is not taken, and making return thereof 50
Except that the fee for summoning a witness shall only be 20
For serving on any person an attachment or other process, under
which the body is taken, and making return thereof $1 00
For receiving a person in jail 25
For discharging a person from jail 25
For carrying a prisoner, other than a prisoner arrested for felony
or misdemeanor, to or from jail, each mile of necessary travel
either in going or returning 05
For taking any bond 60
When a petit jury is sworn in court, for impaneling and summon
ing such jury 1 00
For serving any order of court not otherwise provided for.. 50
When a jury is summoned upon a writ of ail quod damnum, or any
inquest in vacation, for summoning them 1 00
And for attending at the place of their meeting 1 00
And if the jury attend there, and a verdict or inquisition be found
and returned 2 in)
Prmidsd hmitrer, that where more than one writ of ad quod dam
num is executed by the same jury, in the same case, upon the
same summons, the sheriff shall have but one fee for summoning
the jury and attend at their place of meeting, and shall be
allowed but one dollar additional for each additional inquisition
found and returned.
For serving a writ of possession 1 50
For serving a writ of distringas on a judgment or decree for personal
property, if the specific thing be taken 1 50
For keeping and supporting any person confined in jail, for each
day 40
For search and refurn of writ of distringas, where the property is
not found 50
For keeping and supporting any horse or mule distrained or levied
on, for each day, when stall-fed 25
And for each day when pastured 10
For each hog or head of horned cattle, per day 05
For each sheep or goat, per day 03
The court of any county or corporation may, at any time, fix or
alter the rates to be thenceforth paid, in such county or corpora
tion, for keeping and supporting; any person in jail, or any horse,
or live stock ; hut the rates so fixed or altered, shall never exceed
those hereinbefore mentioned. The officer shall be repaid any
necessary expense incurred by him in keeping property not
before mentioned, or in removing any property ; and when, after
distraining or levying, he neither sells nor receives payment, and
either takes no forthcoming bond, or takes one which is not for
feited, he shair, if in no default, have (in addition to the sixty
cents for a bond, if one was taken), a fee of 3 00
Unless this be more than one-half of what his commission would
have amounted to, if he had received payment, in which case he
shall (whether a bond was taken or not) have a fee of, at least 1 00
And so much more as is necessary to make the said half.
The commission to be included in a forthcoming bond, when one is
taken, shall be five per cent, on the first three hundred dollars of the
money for which the distress or levy is, and two per cent, on the residue
of said money; but such commission shall not be received unless the
bond be forfeited or paid (including the commission) to the plaintiff;
and of whatever interest may accrue on such bond, or the execution or
judgment thereon, the officer shall be entitled to his proportionable
share thereof, on account of his fees included in said bond. An officer
receiving payment in money, or selling goods, shall receive the like com
mission of five per cent, on the first three hundred dollars of the money
paid or proceeding from the sale, and two per cent, on the residue ; except,
that when such payment or sale is on an execution on a forthcoming
bond, his commission shall only be half what it would be if the execu
tion were not on such bond.
Of coroners and constables.
Sec. 3509. A constable shall have, for removing a person, by virtue
of a warrant issued under chapter thirty-eight, by a justice, or
one of the overseers of the poor (to be charged to said over
Secrs), for each mile of necessary travel, either in going or re
turning 04
For serving a warrant, under chapter one hundred and forty, or
taking a bond, or giving a notice thereon 30
But the fee for summoning a witness, or a garnishee on an attach
ment, shall only be 20
For other services, not otherwise provided for, a coroner or con
stable shall have the same fees as a sheriff or sergeant for similar
services.
Sec. 3510. To whom fees arc charged.—The fees mentioned in this chapter
shall be chargeable to the party at whose instant* the service is per-
formed, except that fees for entering and certifying the attendance of
witnesses, and the proceedings to compel payment for such attendance,
shall be charged to the party for whom the witness attended.
Sec. 3511. For what services clerks not to charge.— No clerk shall charge
for taking bond from, administering oath to, or making or copying orders
as to the appointment or qualification of any justice, sheriff, sergeant,
treasurer, coroner, commissioner of the revenue, superintendent of the
poor, surveyor, or of a deputy or assistant of any of them, or of any
escheator, supervisor, constable, militia officer, or overseer of the poor, or
of a guardian, where his bond is in a penalty not exceeding one thou
sand dollars, or for making or copying orders as to binding out poor
children, or as to county allowances, or grand juries, and administering
the necessary oaths.
Sec. 3512. For what sheriff or sergeant not to charge.—No sheriff or ser
geant shall charge for serving such, or any other, public orders, nor for
summoning and impaneling grand juries, nor for any services in elections
except as provided under the fifth title of this Code.
Sec. 3513. Services in commonwealth's cases not paid for out of 1 reason,
except. &c. —No clerk, sheriff, or sergeant shall receive payment out of
the treasury for any services rendered in cases of the commonwealth,
except where it is allowed by this or some other chapter.
Sec. 3514. Fee books; by what officers kept ; what entered therein ; snbmission
to inspection of commissioners.— Every officer, to whom section
thirty-four hundred and ninety-nine applies, shall keep a fee book,
wherein shall be entered the fees for every service performed by him,
and the fact of such fees being paid, or of a bill being made out therefor,
whichever shall happen first. The fee books of a clerk shall be submit
ted to the inspection of the commissioners appointed to examine the
clerk's office.
Sec. 3515. How and when fee bills made out; to be produced before pay
ment is compelled; "constructive fees" defined; penalties for illegal
demands; how fee bill quashed.— No person shall be compelled to pay any
fees before mentioned until there be produced to him a fee bill signed
by the officer to whom the fees are due, expressing the particulars for
which such fees are charged : and no such fee bill shall be made out for
any service not previously performed, unless a person desire to pay
before such performance, in which case there shall be mentioned in such
fee bill the nature of the service, and the fact that it is to be performed ;
nor shall an officer, for any service, make out a fee bill for more than is
allowed therefor, or charge full fees to more than one party for the same
service ; but in such case the payment of the fee by any party shall be a
satisfaction for such service ; nor shall any officer charge a constructive
fee; nor shall he, for the same service, attempt to obtain payment a
second time, or even make out a fee bill a second time, unless he endorse
the fact and swear that the former bill remains unpaid. " Constructive
fees" shall be construed to include fees for services not actually rendered,
or for copies not actually furnished the party at his request, or for ser
vices which enure to the benefit of more than one person, and have
already been charged to or paid by another. If any officer violate any
of the provisions of this section, be shall forfeit five dollars to any per
son prosecuting therefor. The circuit or county court of a county, or
circuit or corporation court of a corporation, in which an officer resides,
may, on motion, after reasonable notice to him, quash any fee bill made
out by him contrary to law.
Sec. 351 (i. By whom and how fee bills made ont for fees dne a deceased
clerk. — When a clerk dies, his successor shall charge, in the fee books of
the clerk's office, such lawful fees as do not appear to have been charged
therein, for services performed by the decedent, and make out fee bills
for such fees, and also for any fees charged on the said books by the
decedent, for which he does not appear to have made out fee bills in his
lifetime ; except that such of these as appear to said successor to be for
more than is allowed by law, shall be reduced by him so far as, in his
judgment, is necessary to make them legal.
Sec. 3517. What they shall show; how signed : to whom delivered : how
service for making them out paid for.— The fee bills made out under the
preceding section shall show on their face that they are for fees due the
decedent, and shall be signed by his successor, and delivered to the per
sonal representative of such decedent, as soon as practicable. Such suc
cessor shall receive for his services, under this and the preceding section,
such compensation as the court, whereof he is clerk, shall adjudge to be
reasonable, which shall be paid by said personal representative, or by
the officer who may collect said fee bills, out of the first proceeds of said
collection.
Sec. 3518. To whom fee bills delivered for collection ; power and dutv of
collecting officer.— Any officer mentioned in this chapter, or personal rep
resentative of a deceased clerk, may deliver fee bills, duly signed, to any
sheriff, treasurer, constable in any magisterial district, or high constable
of any city, who shall receive and endeavor to collect the same. Such
sheriff, treasurer, constable, or high constable, may distrain for such fee
bills, and the sheriff for any fee bills due to him, such property of the
person to whom the fee bills are charged as might be levied on under a
writ of fieri /arias against him; and sections six hundred and twenty-
seven, six hundred and twenty-eight, and six hundred and twenty-nine,
shall apply to such fee bills in like manner as to taxes.
Sec. 351!). When and how officer to account for fee hills collected and
return those uncollected: his commission; remedy for what lie is charge
able with.— Every treasurer, sheriff, constable, or high constable to whom
such fee bills are so delivered, shall, within twelve months after such
delivery, account therefor with the officer or personal representative
entitled thereto, by returning such as he may not have collected, with
an endorsement thereon, that the person charged with the fees has no
estate in his county, corporation, or district, out of which the same could
be made, and by paying to such officer or personal representative the
amount of all not so returned, deducting a commission for himself of
ten per mi/, on such amount. If he fail so to do, judgment may be
obtained, on motion, against him and his sureties, or his and their per
sonal representatives, or, if he be a sheriff or treasurer, against any deputy
who may have signed the receipt for said fee bills and his sureties, or his
and their personal representatives, for the amount with which such
sheriff, treasurer, constable, or high constable is chargeable, and damages
thereon, not exceeding fifteen per centum per annum from the expiration
of the said twelve months. .Such judgment may be, on motion after
notice, in the circuit or county court of the county, or circuit or corpora
tion court of the corporation, wherein said sheriff, treasurer, constable, or
high constable resides. On such motion, the signature to any receipt for
fee bills mentioned in the notice, as signed by any person, shall be
deemed to be his genuine signature, unless an affidavit be made deny
ing it.
Sec. 3520. Within what time fee bills may be collected.— No fee bill shall
be collected by distress, warrant, or suit after five years from the end of
the year in which the service was performed that is charged therein,
unless within five years before the institution of such proceedings, it was
returned by an officer, with such endorsement thereon (properly dated)
as is mentioned in the preceding section ; and, after five years from the
date of such endorsement first made, no fee bill shall be collected by
distress, warrant, or suit.
Sec. 3521. How fees or attendance of officer or witness, taxed in cost*,
are noted on order or execution book ; their right to payment ont of costs ;
how costs endorsed on execution.— An officer or witness to whom, for fees
or attendance, anything is due that is taxed in the costs for which there
is judgment or decree, may, within one month after such judgment or
decree, lodge in the clerk's office of the court wherein the same is ren
dered, his fee bills for such fees, or certificate for such attendance. The
amount due each officer or witness for what is so lodged, shall, and the
amount due the clerk himself for fees so included, may, within the said
month, be noted in the margin of the order or execution book, opposite
the entry of the case. An officer or witness, whose fees or certificate
are so noted, shall be paid the same out of the costs, by the person
against whom the judgment or decree is ; and the right to such payment
shall be valid against any assignee of the judgment or decree. When
the clerk issues execution in such case, he shall endorse thereon how
much of said costs is for each officer or witness whose fees or certificate
are so noted ; and the officer collecting said costs shall pay the same
accordingly to those entitled thereto..
Sec. 3522. When officer entitled, before performing services, to have
security tor his fees. —No officer mentioned in this chapter shall be obliged
to perform services for a non-resident of this state, unless payment of his
fees for said services be secured ; nor to perform services for any person
against whom he has had fee bills returned which remain unsatisfied,
unless he be secured payment of his fees for the services desired, or per
formance of said services be directed by a court.
Payment to officers out of treasury in civil coses.
Sec. 3523. Clerks, sheriffs, sergeants, and attorneys for commonwealth.
There shall be paid out of the treasury to clerks, sheriffs, sergeants, and
attorneys for the commonwealth, after the same are duly certified to the
Auditor of Public Accounts, as follows, to-wit :
Sec. 3524. To clerks. Allowance by board of supervisors out of county
treasury. — For services rendered the commonwealth in a civil case, such
fees as would be charged for the like services rendered to an individual;
and to the clerk of any circuit court, for other public services, unless he
receives an annual salary, such sum as the court may allow him, not to
exceed thirty dollars for one year: Provided however, that it shall be
lawful for the board of supervisors of any county, in their discretion, to
cause to be paid from the treasuries of their respective counties, to the
clerks of the circuit courts of said counties, such an amount as the judge
of each of said courts shall certify as a just allowance for services rendered
by the clerk of his court to the commonwealth and to the county, or such
portion thereof as they may deem proper; but the allowance to either
one of the said clerks shall not exceed the sum of five hundred dollars
for any one year, and such allowance shall be in full for all allowances
for such services, both on account of the state and county.
Sec. 3525. To sheriffs and sergeants. —For attending any circuit court,
except the circuit court of the city of Richmond, two dollars for each day.
And the judge of any such court may allow to any deputy, whose attend
ance he may deem necessary and require as an assistant to the principal
officer, such compensation as he may deem just and proper, not exceeding
two dollars per day.
Sec. 3526. To attorneys for the commonwealth.—The attorney for the
commonwealth for the circuit court of the city of Richmond shall receive
annually the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars ; the attorney for the
circuit courts of the county and city of Norfolk shall receive annually the
sum of seventy-five dollars ; and the attorney for each of the other circuit
courts shall receive annually the sum of fifty dollars.
Payment to officers out ot treasury in criminal cases ; how their accounts
verified and certified.
Sec. 3527. Fees of attorneys for commonwealth, clerks, &c—The fees of
attorneys for the commonwealth, clerks, justices, sheriffs, sergeants, coro-
ners, criers, and constables shall be paid out of the treasury when certi
fied as prescribed by section forty hundred and eighty-four. No account
shall be allowed or paid unless verified by affidavit of the person render
ing the service; and when allowance is made for a guard or to a person
to assist in making an arrest, the account shall also be verified by the
affidavit of such guard or person employed to assist in making the arrest,
or the personal representative of such officer, guard, or person, if he be
dead. The fees of said officers shall be as follows :
To attorneys for the commonwealth.
Sec. 3528. For every case of felony tried in any circuit, county, or
corporation court, to be charged only once in each case, the sum
of.
$10 00
For every case of misdemeanor prosecuted in any such court to
judgment for the commonwealth, except prosecutions for viola
tions of the revenue laws and for offences under section thirtyeight
hundred and fifteen and the sections following to thirty-
eight hundred and thirty-three inclusive, the sum of. 5 00
To a clerk of any court.
Sec. 3529. For each case of felony tried in his court, to be charged
only once, the 6uin of.
But this- section shall not apply to the clerk of the hustings court
of the city of Richmond.
2 50
To a justice.
Sec. 3530. —For issuing a warrant of arrest
For trying or examining a case of misdemeanor
For examining a charge of felony
The said fees shall be in full for all services rendered in each case
by a justice.
50
Sec. 3531. — For serving a warrant or summons other than on a wit
ness;, where no arrest is made 30
For an arrest in ease of misdemeanor 50
For an arrest in ease of felony 1 oO
For executing a search warrant 50
For summoning a witness 20
But not more than sixty cents shall be allowed for summoning wit
nesses in a ease of misdemeanor, nor more than one dollar in a
ease of felony, unless the justice shall certify that the witnesses
in a case of misdemeanor in excess of three, or in a case of felony
in excess of five, were examined on the trial and were material
witnesses; and when two or more persons are arrested under one
warrant, or are jointly charged or tried, the officer shall be enti
tled only to such fees for summoning witnesses, as if only one
person was arrested, charged, or tried.
For carrying a prisoner to jail under order of a justice, for each mile
of travel of himself in going and returning 04
For each mile of travel of the prisoner in carrying him to jail,
where the distance is over ten miles 04
For board of prisoner while under arrest and undergoing exami
nation on a charge of felony, or while carrying him to jail, the
amount actually paid by such officer, not exceeding per day 1 00
For each person employed in making the arrest of any person
charged with a criminal offence, not to exceed per day "•">
For a guard per day 75
For each mile of travel of guard in going to jail and returning 04
But no guard shall be employed or paid unless the justices order it
and certify that such guard could not be safely dispensed with.
For executing a writ of venire facia* 1 5(1
For executing a sentence of death 5 w
And in addition, the expenses actually incurred by the officer iu
executing such sentence.
For conveying any person convicted of felony to the penitentiary,
for each day during the removal of said convict 3 00
Also the actual necessary expenses of himself, and any guard that
may be necessary in so conveying such convict, and the actual
necessary expenses of such convict, including his support.
To a jailor.
Sec. 3532. —For receiving a person in jail when first committed.. 25
For keeping and supporting him therein, for each day
But where there are as many as three and less than ten prisoners
in jail, for each 30
Where there are ten or more persons in jail, for each 25
For attending any circuit court having jurisdiction of criminal
cases, and for all services for the commonwealth not otherwise
provided for, such sum as the said court may allow him, not
exceeding for one year 30 01'
In Spotsylvania county, the allowance may be apportioned
between the jailor at the courthouse of the county and the
jailor in Fredericksburg, as the court may deem just.
Sec. 3533. When certain officers not to lie paid fees in criminal cases,
Allowance, in lieu of fees, for serving process in criminal cases in cities.—
No justice, constable, sergeant, captain, or sergeant of police w ho receives
a salary or allowance for general services out of the treasury of his
county, city, or corjioration shall receive any fees for services in a crimi
nal ease from the state, city, or county, but all such fees to said officers
shall be paid by the party against whom judgment is rendered ; but the
judge of any city or corporation court, may make an allowance not
exceeding two hundred dollars a year to each of two constables, ser
geants, or policemen of such city or corporation, to be paid in lieu of all
fees for serving criminal process of any kind ; which allowance shall be
paid out of the treasury.
To a witness for the commonwealth.
Sec. 3534. Kor each day's attendance $0 50
And when compelled to go out of his county to place of trial, all
neceaxary ferriage and tolls, and for each mile of travel in going
and returning 04
When he does not travel out of his county, all necessary ferriage
and tolls, and for each mile of travel over ten in going and
returning 04
All allowances to witness&s summoned on behalf of the common
wealth, shall be paid by the treasurer of the county or corpora
tion in which the trial is had, and the amount so paid by such
treasurer, shall be refunded to him out of the state treasury.
Sec. 3535. Fees collected of defendant to he paid into treasury.— All fees
to officers, which are authorized or required to be paid out of the treas
ury, if there be a judgment for the same against a defendant, shall, when
collected, be paid by the' officer collecting the same, to the clerk of the
court of the county or corporation in which the judgment was rendered,
and by such clerk into the treasury, and not to the officers themselves.
Sec. 3536. When no fee allowed officer. —No officer shall be entitled to
payment out of the treasury for services rendered in a proceeding against
any person for disobedience of the process of a court.
Sec. 3537. Allowance to deputy sergeants of certain cities.— The judge of
the corporation or hustings court of the cities of Richmond, Petersburg,
Norfolk, Portsmouth, and Alexandria may, with the consent of the
council of the said cities, make an allowance to pay the necessary and
proper salaries of such number of deputy sergeants as said judge shall
consider needful, and such allowance shall be paid out of the treasury of
the said cities.
Sec 3538. Poor persons allowed services from connsel and officers, with
out fees or costs. —A poor person may be allowed by a court to sue or
defend a suit therein, without paying fees or costs; whereupon he shall
have, from any counsel whom the court may assign him, and from all
officers, all needful services and process, without any fees to them therefor,
except what may be included in the costs recovered from the opposite
party.
Sec. 3539. Security for costs ; how required ; when snit dismissed, if not
given; if given, to be by bond; remedy thereon.— In any suit (except
where such poor person is plaintiff,) there may be a suggestion on the
record in court, or (if the case be at rules) on the rule docket, by a
defendant, or any officer of the court, that the plaintiff is not a resident
of this state, and that security is required of him. After sixty day*
from such suggestion, the suit shall, by order of the court, be dismissed,
unless, before the dismission, the plaintiff be proved to be, a resident of
the state, or security be given before said court, or the clerk thereof, for
the payment of the costs and damages which may be awarded to the
defendant, and of the fees due, or to become due, in such suit, to the
officers of the court. The security shall be by bond, payable to t he com
monwealth, but there need only be one obligor therein, if he be suffi
cient and a resident of the state. The court before whom, or before
whose clerk, such bond is given, may, on motion by a defendant or
officer, give judgment for so much as he is entitled to by virtue of eaid
bond.
Sec. 3540. How obligor in snch bond may obtain indemnity.— On the
motion of an obligor in such bond, after reasonable notice to the plaintiff,
his attorney-at-law, or agent, the court may order bond to be given, with
sufficient surety, in a penalty equal to the 'penalty of the former bond.
payable to the applicant, and with condition to indemnify and save
harmless the applicant against all loss or damage, in consequence of
executing the former bond. If the bond required under this section be
not given within such time as the court may prescribe, it may order the
suit to be dismissed.
Sec. 3541. Costs on certain motions and interlocutory orders.— Upon any
motion (other than for a judgment for money), or upon any interlocutory
order or proceeding, the court may give or refuse costs, at its discretion,
unless it be otherwise provided. It may, when a demurrer is sustained
to a plea in abatement, give judgment for the plaintiff for his full costs, to
the time of sustaining it, an attorney's fee only excepted ; and when any
other part of the pleading is adjudged insufficient, order all costs occa
sioned by such insufficient pleading to be paid by him who committed
the fault.
Sec. 3542. What costs to be paid when new trial granted; when, if not
paid, court may proceed to judgment on verdict. —The party to whom a new
trial is granted, shall, previous to such new trial, pay the costs of the
former trial, unless the court enter that the new trial is granted for mis
conduct of the opposite party, who, in such case, may be ordered to pay
any costs which seem to the court reasonable. If the party, who is to pay
the costs of the former trial, fail to pay the same at or before the next
term after the new trial is granted, the court may, on the motion of the
opposite party, set aside the order granting it, and proceed to judgment
on the verdict, or award execution for said costs, as may seem to it best.
Sec. 3543. Plaintiff not to recover costs in personal action not on contract,
where verdict for less than ten dollars, unless, &c— In any personal action
not on contract, if a verdict be found for the plaintiff, on an issue or other
wise, for less damages than ten dollars, he shall not recover in respect to
such verdict any costs, unless the court enter of record that the object of
the action was to try a right, besides the mere right to recover damages
for the trespass orgrievance in respect of which the action was brought, or
that the said trespass or grievance was wilful or malicious.
Sec. 3544. Judgment to be for defendant in personal action on contract, when
less is found due than twenty dollars, exclusive of interest, unless, &c—In any
personal action on contract, wherein it is ascertained that less is due to
the plaintiff than twenty dollars, exclusive of interest, judgment shall
be given for the defendant, unless the court enter of record that the mat
ter in controversy was of greater value than twenty dollars, exclusive of
interest, in which case it may give judgment for the plaintiff for what is
ascertained to be due him, with or without costs, as to it may seem right.
Sec. 3545. (Jeneral rule as to recovery of costs on final judgment, in action
or on motion. — Except where it is otherwise provided, the party for whom
final judgment is given in any action, or in a motion for judgment for
money, whether he be plaintiff or defendant, shall recover his costs against
the opposite party ; and when the action is against two or more, and there
is a judgment for, or discontinuance as to some, but not all of the defend
ants, unless the court enter of record that there was reasonable cause for
making defendants, those for whom there is such judgment, or as to whom
there is such discontinuance (and order otherwise), they shall recover
their costs.
Sec 3546. Costs, when suit in name of one for another.— When a suit is
in the name of one person for the benefit of any other, if there be judg:
raent for the defendant's costs, it shall be against such other.
Sec. 3547. How law of costs interpreted ; discretion of courts of equity.
The laws of costs shall not be interpreted as penal laws ; nor shall
anything in this chapter take away or abridge the discretion of a court
of equity over the subject of cost.*, except us follows :
Sec. 3548. Costs in appellate court.- -In every case in an appellate court,
costs shall be recovered in such court by the party substantially prevail
ing.
Sec. 3549. Allowances to witness ; how and by whom entered. —A per
son, attending as a witness under a summons, shall have fifty cents for
each day's attendance, and four cents per mile for each mile beyond ten
miles necessarily traveled to the place of attendance, and the same for
returning, besides the tolls at the bridges and ferries which he crosses, or
turnpike gates he may pass. On his oath, an entry of the sum he is
entitled to, and for what, and by what party it is to be paid, shall be
made, when the attendance is before either House, or a committee of the
General Assembly, by the clerk of such House or committee, and in
other cases, by the clerk of the court in which the case is, or the person
before whom the witness attended. A witness, summoned to attend in
several cases, may have the entry made against either of the parties by
whom he is summoned ; but no witness shall be allowed for his attend
ance in more than one case at the same time.
Sec. 3550. By whom, and upon what certificate, paid; duty of clerk; by
whom dispute between witness and party determined.—The sum, to which
a witness is entitled, shall be paid out of the treasury in any case of
attendance before either House or a committee of the General Assembly,
and in any other case in which the attendance is for the commonwealth,
except where it is otherwise specially provided. In all other cases it
shall be paid by the party for whom the summons issued. The payment
shall be on a certificate of the person required by the preceding section
to make the entry. The certificate shall express by letters, and not by
figures, the separate amounts to which the witness is entitled for his
attendance, traveling, and tolls and ferriages which he may have to pay,
and the aggregate thereof. No clerk or other person authorized to make
such entry, or give such certificate, shall become interested, by purchase,
in any claim payable out of the public treasury, which by law he is
authorized to certify ; and it shall be the duty of such clerk, immedi
ately after the expiration of sixty days from the adjournment of any
court, to make out a list of all entries made, on behalf of witnesses attend
ing for the commonwealth, and certify such list to the Auditor of Public
Accounts. Any dispute (before or after issuing the certificate) between
the witness and the party against whom his claim is made, as to its jus
tice or amount, may, when the case is in a court or before a justice, be
determined by such court or justice.
Sec. 3551. Court or justice may restrict taxation in costs for witnesses;
when entry for witness not allowed.—The court or justice may rest rict the
taxation in the costs for witnesses to so many as may be deemed just.
No entry for a witness shall be made against a. party recovering costs,
after execution has issued for such party; and in no case shall there be an
entry of a witness for attendance at a term, after sixty days from the end
of such term.
Sec. 3552. Who to tax costs ; what included for attorney s fee.—The clerk
of the court, wherein any party recovers coats, shall tax the same. He
shall included therein for the fee of such party's attorney, if he has one :
In a circuit, county, or corporation court, unless it be a judgment
by default on a forthcoming bond, or a case otherwise provided
for 2 50
In a county or corporation court, on a complaint of unlawful entry
or detainer 5 00
In a case of the commonwealth, if no higher fee be allowed 5 00
In a circuit or corporation court, in an action of ejectment, or
unlawful entry or detainer ; or, on a writ of error, or superseded*,
or an appeal other than in a chancery case 5 00
In a chancery case other than a motion, when the matter in con
troversy does not exceed one hundred dollars in amount or
value 5 00
When it exceeds that sum 15 00
In the court of appeals 20 00
But in no case shall more than one fee be taxed against the same
party unless the court otherwise direct.
Sec. 3553. Fee of one attorney only to be taxed.— Although the party
recovering may have had more than one attorney, only the fee of one
shall be taxed in the same court.
Sec. 3554. What else clerk taxes.—The clerk shall tax in the costs all
taxes on process, and all fees of officers which said party appears to be
chargeable with in the case wherein the recovery is, except that where
in any court, on the same side, more than one copy of anything is
obtained or taken out, there shall be taxed only the fee for one copy of
the same thing. He shall also tax the costs of executing any order of
publication made in the case for such party, and of any advertisement
from him in the case, made in pursuance of law, allowing the amount
■charged by the publisher, (provided such publisher shall rile with his
certificate of publication or account a printed copy of his fixed rates of
advertising, and his charge shall not exceed them) ; fifty cents for each
legal notice from him therein, which is served in this state, and not
otherwise taxed ; and the allowances to his witnesses, and every further
sum which the court may deem reasonable and direct to be taxed for
depositions taken out of the state, or for any other matter.
Sec. 3555. Taxation in eases of commonwealth. Costs to be paid into
treasury. —In a case wherein there is judgment or decree on behalf of
the common wealth for costs, there shall be taxed in the costs the charge
actually incurred to give any notice, although it be more than fifty cents;
and the fees of attorneys and other officers for services, and allowances
for attendance, as if such fees and allowances were payable out of the
treasury. What is so taxed for fees of, or allowance to, any person, shall
be paid by the sheriff or officer who may receive said costs into the
treasury.
Sec. 3556. No judgment for costs against commonwealth allowed, except,
4c.—In no case, civil or criminal, except where otherwise specially pro-
vided, shall there be a judgment for costs against the commonwealth.
OF ENFORCING DECREES AND ORDERS; DOCKETING JUDGMENTS AND OTHER
LIENS OF THE LIKE NATURE J THE EFFECT OF SUCH LIENS J AND THE
LIMITATION OF PROCEEDINGS ON JUDGMENTS.
S< c.
3657.
3;>G0.
35(11.
35t>2.
3o03.
35G4.
:io65.
35GG.
Sec.
Decrees and orders for property or 3oti7.
money have effect of judgment;
are embraced by word "judg- 3568.
ment," where used under this
til le.
Who deemed judgment creditors;
how execution issues on decrees, 3569.
Ac , for money to be paid into
court, or a hunk, Ac.
Clerks of county and corporation 3570.
courts and clerk of chancery
court of Richmond to ket-p judg
ment dockets ; what judgments to 3571.
docket therein , duty ol clerks of
circuit courts to deliver abstracts
of judgments rendered in their 3672.
courtf or offices; ab.-iracts of I
judgments against fiduciaries, re
ceivers, Ac., not to be docketeu [ 3573.
unless required.
How judgments are docketed. 3674.
How indexed.
When and how payment (hereoi en
tered on judgment docket ; clerks
of circuit courts to certify satisfac- 3576.
tiito oi judgment*.
Judgment, when paid, to be so noted 357G.
by creditor on judgment docket,
Ac.; how noted, signed, and at
tested. 3577.
When and how court, on motion of '
defendant, Ac, may have payment
of judgment entered. ' 3578.
Attorney-General. Ac, to have judg
ments in favor of state docketed, 3579.
and whore.
Lis pcndnw and attachments, when '
and how to be docketed and in- 35S0.
dexed.
Judgment to be a lien on all real es
tate of debtor ; from what time.
When certain judgments and de
crees to be liens only from the
day when they are rendered or
become final.
Operation ol judgment rendered be
fore July 1, 1850, as against pur
chaser, creditor, Ac.
Judgment not a lien against par-
chaser for value without notice,
unless docketed.
Jurisdiction of equity to enforce
lien ol judgment; when it may
decree a sale.
Enforcement of Hen, where judg
ment does not exceed twenty dol
lars exclusive of interest and cost*.
When suit to enforce lien of judg
ment barred in equity
When right of subrogation en
forced; lieu of judgment not im
paired by another judgment
thereon, or by forthcoming^ood.
Order of liability between alienees'
of different parts of estate.
How liens ol judgments attach to
real estate and are payable; when
paid ratably.
Limitation ol "proceedings to en force
judgments. The return by officer
on an execution.
Provision construing and qualifying
the preceding section.
Limitation of judgments and de
crees on official bonds of certain
collectors of revenue.
Chapter embraces recognizances
and bonds having force of a judg
ment.
Sec. 3557. Decrees and orders for property or money have effect of jud£-
ment; are embraced by word "judgment," where used under this title.— A
decree for land or specific personal property, and a decree or order requir-
ing the payment of money, shall have the effect of a judgment for such
land, property, or money, and be embraced by the word "judgment,"
where used in any chapter under this title ; but a party may proceed to
carry into execution a decree or order in chancery other than for the
payment of money, as lie might have done if this and the following sec
tion had not been enacted.
Sec. 3558. Who deemed judgment creditors; how execution issues on
decrees, &c, for money to be paid into court, or a hank, &c. -The persons,
entitled to the benefit of any decree or order requiring the payment of
money, shall be deemed judgment creditors, although the money be
required to be paid into a court, or a bank, or other place of deposit. In
such case, an execution on the decree or order shall make such recital
thereof, and of the parties to it. as may be necessary to designate the
case; and if a time be specified in the decree or order within which the
payment is to be made, the execution shall not issue until the expiration
of that time.
Sec. 3559. Clerks of county and corporation courts and clerk of chancery
court of Richmond to keep judgment dockets; what judgments to docket
therein ; clerks of circuit courts to deliver abstracts of judgments rendered
in their courts or offices; abstracts of judgments against fiduciaries, receiv
ers. &c, not to be docketed, unless required.—The clerk of the chancery
court of the city of Richmond, and the clerk of each county and corpor
ation court, except the hustings court of the said city, shall keep in his
office in a well bound book a judgment docket, in which he shall docket
without delay any judgment for money rendered in this state, when he
shall be required to do so by any person interested, on such person deliv
ering to him an authenticated abstract of it; and shall docket every
judgment for money rendered in his court or office, and every such judg
ment, the abstract of which is delivered to him by the clerk of the cir
cuit court of bis county or corporation, and also upon the request of any
person interested therein, any such judgment rendered by a justice,
whose book has been filed in his office under the provisions of section
twenty-nine hundred and forty-four, or of which an abstract is delivered
to him, certified by the justice who rendered it; and the clerk of the
circuit court of each county or corporation, except the clerk of the cir
cuit court of the city of Richmond, shall, without delay, deliver to the
clerk of the county or corporal ion court of his county or corporation, and
the clerk of the circuit court of the city of Richmond to the clerk of the
chancery court of the said city, an authenticated abstract of every judg
ment for money rendered in his court or office, except that judgments,
decrees, or orders against fiduciaries for which they are not personally
liable, and against commissioners and receivers of any court, and against
any bank, or incorporated company doing a banking business, for money
deposited under or subject to the order of any court, or by a commis
sioner or receiver thereof, shall not be docketed, nor abstracts thereof
delivered by the clerks of the circuit courts to the clerks of the county or
corporation courts, or by the clerk of the circuit court of the city of Richmom
1 to the clerk of the chancery court of the said city, unless required
by the plaintiff in such judgment, decree, or order, or some person inter
ested therein, to be so certified and docketed, and then only at the cost
of such plaintiff or person so interested.
Sec. 3560. How judgments are docketed.— In such docket there shall be
stated, in separate columns, the date and amount of the judgment; the
names of all the parties thereto: the alternative value of any specific
property recovered by it, the date of docketing it, the amount and date
of any credit thereon ; the court in which, or the justice by whom it was
rendered; and when paid otT or discharged, in whole or in part, the
time thereof, and by whom such payment or discharge was made, where
there is more than one defendant.
Sec. 3561. How indexed. —Every judgment shall, as soon as it is docketed,
indexed by the clerk in the name of each defendant, and shall not be
regarded as docketed as to any defendant in whose name it is not so
indexed.
Sec. 3562. When and how payment thereof entered on judgment docket ;
clerks of circuit courts to certify satisfaction of judgments.—The fact of
the payment or discharge, either in whole or in part, of any judgment so
docketed, and if there be more than one defendant, by which defendant
it was paid or discharged, shall be entered, as aforesaid, by the clerk,
upon the return of any execution showing such satisfaction or upon the
certificate of the clerk from whose office such execution was issued, that
the same has been satisfied in whole or in part, or upon the direction of
the judgment creditor or his attorney ; and the clerk of the circuit court
of each county and corporation, except the clerk of the circuit court of
the city of Richmond, whenever it appears from the return of an execu
tion issued thereon, that any judgment rendered in his court or officehas
been satisfied, in whole or in part, shall, without delay, certify the
fact of such satisfaction, and if there be more than one defendant, by
which defendant it was satisfied, to the clerk of the county or corpora
tion court of his county or corporation, and the clerk of the circuit court
of the city of Richmond to the clerk of the chancery court of the said
city.
Sec. 3563. Judgment, w hen paid, to be so noted by creditor on judgment
docket, &c; how noted, signed, and attested.— In all cases where payment
or satisfaction of any judgment so docketed is made, which does not
appear by the return of an execution to the office of the clerk where the
judgment is docketed, or which is not required to be certified to him
under the preceding section by the clerk of the circuit court of his county
or corporation, it shall be the duty of the judgment creditor, himself, or
by his agent or attorney, to cause such payment, or satisfaction, whether
in whole or in part, and if there be more than one defendant, by which
defendant it was paid or discharged, to be entered within ninety days
after the same is made, on said judgment docket ; or, if the judgment has
not been docketed, then on the execution book in the office of the clerk
from which the execution issued. And for any failure to do so, after the
same is made, such judgment creditor shall be liable to a fine of twenty
dollars. Such entry of payment or satisfaction shall be signed by the
creditor, his duly authorized agent or attorney and be attested by the
clerk in whose office the judgment is docketed, or, when not docketed,
by the clerk from whose office the execution issued.
Sec. 3564. When and how court, on motion of defendant, &c, may have
payment of judgment entered.—A defendant in any judgment, his heirs or
personal representatives, may, on motion, after ten days' notice thereof
to the plaintiff in said judgment, or his assignee, or if he be a non-resi
dent such notice to his attorney, if he have one, or, if he be dend, to his
personal representative, apply to the court in which the judgment was
rendered, to have the same marked satisfied, and upon proof that the
judgment has been paid off or discharged, such court shall order such
satisfaction to be entered on the margin of the page in the book wherein
the said judgment was entered, and a certificate of such order to be made
to the clerk of the court in which such judgment is, required by section
thirty-five hundred and fifty-nine to be docketed, and the clerk of such
court shall immediately, upon the receipt of such certificate, enter the
same in the proper column of the judgment docket opposite the place
where the said judgment is docketed. ,
Sec. 3565. Attorney -Keneral, &c, to have judgments in favor of state
docketed, and where. —Whenever a judgment is recovered in favor of the
commonwealth, it shall be the duty of the Attorney-General or other
attorney representing the commonwealth, to cause the said judgment to
be docketed in all counties and corporations wherein there is any real
estate owned by any person against whom the judgment is recovered.
Sec. 3566. Lis pendens and attachment, when and how to be docketed and
indexed. — No lis pendms, or attachment under chapter one hundred and
forty-one, shall bind or affect a bona fide purchaser of real estate, for valuable
consideration, without actual notice of such lis pendens or attach-
ment, unless and until a memorandum setting forth the title of the cause,
the general object thereof, the court in which it is pending, a description
of the land, and the name of the person whose estate is intended to be
affected thereby, shall be left with the clerk of the court of the county
or corporation in which the land is situate, who shall forthwith record
the said memorandum in the deed book, and index the same in the
name of the person aforesaid.
Sec. 3567. Judgment to he a lien on all real estate of debtor; from what
time. —Every judgment for money rendered in this state, heretofore or
hereafter, against any person, shall be a lien on all the real estate of or
to which such person is or becomes possessed or entitled, at or after the
r '
date of such judgment,- or, if it was rendered in court, at or after the
commencement of the term at which it was so rendered. This section is
qualified by section thirty-six hundred and forty-nine and the three
following sections.
0
Sec. 3568. When certain judgments and decrees to be liens only from the
day when they are rendered or become final.— A judgment or decree of8
the circuit court of the city of Richmond, or a decree of the chancery
court of the said city, in a cause matured at the rules and put upon the
docket during the term at which the judgment or decree is rendered or
the judgment becomes final, and, in any case, a judgment or decree,
which, from the nature of the case, could not have been rendered at the
commencement of the term, shall be a lien only on and after the day on
which such judgment or decree is rendered or becomes final, and not
from the commencement of the said term; but this section shall not pre
vent the lien of a judgment or decree from relating back to the first day
of the term merely because the case shall be set for trial or hearing on a
later day of the term, if such case was matured for the docket at the
commencement of the term, or merely because the office judgment in a
case matured for the docket at the commencement of the term does not
become final until a later day of the term.
Sec. 3569. Operation of judgment rendered before July 1. 1850, as against
purchaser, creditor, &c—A judgment rendered before the first day of
July, eighteen hundred and fifty, shall, as against a purchaser or creditor,
claiming under a deed made or judgment obtained, or as against the
heirs or devisees of a person dying, before that day, affect no more of
such real estate than would have been liable thereto under the laws in
force on the day before the first day of July, eighteen hundred and
fifty.
Sec. '1570. Judgment not a lien against purchaser for value without
notice, unless docketed. — No judgment shall be a lien on real estate as
against a purchaser thereof for valuable consideration without notice,
unless it be docketed according to the provisions of this chapter, in the
. 6 * . . T.
county or corporation wherein such real estate is, either within twenty
days next after the date of such judgment, or fifteen days before t he conveyance
of said estate to such purchaser.
Sec. 3571. Jurisdiction of equity to enforce lien of judgment ; when it
t J jo'
may decree a sale.— Jurisdiction to enforce the lienofajudgmentshall be
in equity. If it appear to the court that the rents and profits of the real
estate subject to the lien will not satisfy the judgment in five years, the
court may decree the said estate, or any part thereof, to be sold, and the
proceeds applied to the discharge of the judgment.
Sec. 3572. Enforcement of lien, where judgment docs not exceed twenty
dollarsrexeliisive of interest and costs.— If the amount of the judgment does
not exceed tw enty dollars, exclusive of interest and costs, no bill to enforce
the lien thereof shall be entertained, unless it appear that sixty days
before the institution of the suit, the judgment debtor or his personal
representative, and the owner of the real estate on which the judgment
is a lien, or, in case of a non-resident, his agent or attorney (if he have
one in this state), had notice that the suit would be instituted, if the
judgment was not paid within that time.
Sec. 3573. When suit to enforce lien of judgment barred in equity. —Xo
suit shall be brought to enforce the lien of a judgment upon which the
ri«_dit to issue an execution, or bring a wire facia*, or an action, is barred
by sections thirty-five hundred and seventy-seven and thirty-five hun
dred and seventy-eight.
Sec. 3574. When right of subrogation enforced; lien of judgment not
jnlpajre(| |,y another judgment thereon, or by forthcoming bond.— The pre
ceding section shall not be construed to impair the right of subrogation
to which any person may become entitled while the lien is in force, pro
vided he institute proceedings to enforce such right within five years
after the same accrued ; nor shall the lien of a judgment be impaired by
the recovery of another judgment thereon, or by a forthcoming bond
taken on an execution thereon, such bond having the force of a judg
ment.
Sec. 3575. Order of liability between alienees of different parts of estate.
Where the real estate liable to the lien of a judgment is more than siiffi-
cient to satisfy the same, and it, or any part of it, has been aliened, as
among the alienees for value, that which was aliened last, shall, in
equity, be first liable, and so on with other successive alienations, until
the whole judgment is satisfied. And as among alienees who are volun
teers under such judgment debtor, the same rule as to the order of
liability shall prevail; but as among alienees for value and volunteers.
the lands aliened to the latter shall he subjected before the lands aliened
to the former are resorted to; and, in either ease, any part of such real
estate retained by the debtor shall be first liable to t he satisfaction of the
judgment.
Seo. 3576. How liens of judgments attach to real estate and are payable;
■> <* r *
when paid ratably. —The liens of judgments against the same person shall
attach to all his real estate liable thereto under section thirty-five him-
dred and sixty -seven, in the order of the dates respectively of said judg
ments, and the judgments shall be payable thereout in the same order;
but where there are two or more judgments of the same date against the
same person, said judgments shall be paid ratably out of the real estate
on which they are liens. Where a judgment has relation in law to the
commencement of the term at which it was rendered, or becomes final,
its date (within the meaning of this section) shall be deemed to be as at
such commencement.
Sec. 3577. Limitation of proceedings to enforce judgment. The return
by officer on an execution.— On a judgment, execution may be issued
within a year, and a scire facias or an action may be brought within ten
years after the date of the judgment; and where execution issues within
the year, other executions may be issued, or a scire facias or an action
may be brought within ten years from the return day of an execution on
which there is no return by an officer, or within twenty years from the
return day of an execution on which there is such return; except that
' . .
where the scire facia* or action is against the personal representative of a
decedent, it shall be brought within five years from the qualification of
such representative; and in computing time under this section, there
shall, as to writs of fieri facias, be omitted from such computation the
time elapsed between the first day of January, eighteen hundred and
sixty-nine, and the twenty-ninth day of March, eighteen hundred and
seventy-one. Any return by an officer on an execution showing that the
same has not been satisfied, shall be a sufficient return within the mean-
...
ing of thlS Section.
Sec. 357S. Provision construing and qualifying the preceding section. —No
execution shall issue, nor any scire facias or action be brought, on a judg-
ment in this state, other than for the commonwealth, after the time prescribed
by the preceding section, except that, in computing the time, any
time during which the right to sue out execution on the judgment is sus
pended by the terms thereof, or by legal process, shall be omitted; and sections twenty-nine hundred and thirty-one, twenty-nine hundred and
thirty-two. twenty-nine hundred and thirty-three, twenty-nine hundred
and thirty-four, and twenty-nine hundred and thirty-eight shall apply to
the right to bring such action or scire facias in like manner as to any
right, action, or scire facias mentioned in those sections ; and except that
when the judgment is for the penalty of a bond, but to be discharged by
the payment of what is then ascertained, and such sums as may be after
wards assessed or found due ui>on a scire facias on the judgment, assign
ing a further breach of the bond, such scire facias may be brought within
ten years after such breach. This section is qualified by the following section.
Sec. 3579. Limitation of judgments and decrees on official bonds of cer-
tain collectors of revenue. —Where, upon an official bond executed prior
to the first day of July, eighteen hundred and seventy, by any public
officer whose duty it was to collect the state and countv revenue in anv
county in this state, any judgment or decree has been, prior to or since
the first day of January, eighteen hundred and eighty-five, or may here
after be, rendered, in favor of and for the benefit of the commonwealth,
for a breach of such duty, no proceeding shall be had or taken, at law or
in equity, to enforce such judgment or decree, after the lapse of ten years
from the date thereof.
Sec. 358(1. Chapter embraces recognizances and bonds bavins force of a
judgment. —The foregoing sections of this chapter, so far as they relate to
the docketing of judgments, the entering of satisfaction thereof, and the
liens of judgments and enforcement of such liens, shall be construed as
embracing recognizances, and bonds having the force of a judgment.
CHAPTER CLXXV.
OP EXECUTIONS FOR SPECIFIC PROPERTY J AND OF WRITS OF FIERI FACIAS
AND VENDITIONI EXPONAS.
Sec. See.
3581. Fieri facias allowed on a judgment 3592.
for* money; what writs may not
is>ue; distringas only for specific
personal property. 3593.
3582 Executions against corporations.
How issue on Joint judgments. 3594.
3583. How execution issues where judg
ment i-i for benefit oi other per
son than the plaintiff. Remedies
of such person. •
3584. When writ of possession may issue;
fieri facias for damages or profits 3595.
and costs.
3585. What writ;* may issue on Judgment
for personal property. 359G.
3586. How distringas may be superseded
and executed for value ; how
value ascertained. 3097.
3587. What a writ of fieri facias may be
levied on; from what time H 3598.
binds; when lien thereof ceases.
3588. If levy be on coin or bank notes,
how accounted for.
3589. Ofhcer'H duty to endorse on fieri
facias time of receiving it; reme- 3599.
*dy against him for failure.
3590. Where several writs of fieri facias,
how f-atisfied.
3591. Whnt return officer to make on fieri 3600.
facias; what statement file there
with; clerk to enter return on
execution book.
Re-sale of property, if purchaser At
officer's sale fails to comply;
remedy against such purchaser.
When venditioni exponas may issue;
proceedings thereon.
Where officer taking property un
der execution dies before" ?ale,
and there are no deputies, vendi
tioni exponas may issue to new
officer ; proceedings in -such case ;
provision for new execution.
When money received by officer
under execution to be repaid to
debtor.
Officer not required to go out of his
county or corporation to pay
money received by him.
After an execution na^ issued, pro
vision for others.
When property sold under execu
tion, or its value, is recovered
from obligor in indemnifying
bond, or, Ac, how new execution
obtained.
When and by whom executions
may be quashed how proceed
ings thereon stayed until motion
to quash is heard.
Issue of executions on judgments
and decrees during term of court
at which they are rendered.
Sec. 3581. Fieri facias allowed on judgment for money ; what writs may
not issue; distringas only tor specific personal properly.—On a judgment
^or monev' there may be issued a writ of fieri facia*. No writ of /-ewri
facias, writ of elegit, writ of capias ad satisfaciendum, or writ of dutrtHgti*,
shall l>e issued hereafter; except that a writ of distringas may be issued
on a judgment for specific property.
Sec. 3582. Executions against corporations. How issue on joint judg
ments.— Such executions as may issue against a natural person may issue
against a corporation ; and where a judgment is against several j arsons
jointly, executions thereon shall be joint against them all.
Sec. 3583. How, where judgment for benefit of other person than plain
tiff. Remedies of such person.-- Where an execution issues on a judgment,
for the benefit, in whole or in part, of any person other than the plain-
tiff, if the fact appear by the record, the clerk shall, in the execution, or
by an endorsement thereon, state the extent of the interest therein of
such person; and he (either in his own name or that of the plaintiff)
may, as a party injured, prosecute a suit or motion against the officer.
Sec. 3584. When writ of possession may issue: fieri facias for damages
or profits and costs. —On a judgment for the recovery of specific prop
erty, real or personal, a writ of possession may issue for the sj>ecinc
property, which shall conform to the judgment, as to the description of
the property and the estate, title, or interest recovered ; and there may
also be issued a writ of fieri facias, for the damages or profits, and costs.
Sec. 3585. What writs may issue on judgment for personal property.—
When the judgment is for personal property, the plaint iff may, at his
option, have a fieri facias for the alternative value (instead of a writ of
possession), and the damages and costs, or he may have a writ of
distringas.
Sec. 3586. How distringas may be superseded and executed for value ; how
value ascertained.— If a distringas issue, the court, on the motion of either
party, may order it to be superseded as to the specific thing, and to be
executed in lieu thereof for the alternative value. Such value, if not
fixed in the judgment, may be ascertained by a jury, to be forthwith
impaneled.
Sec. 3587. What a writ of fieri facias may be levied on ; from what time
it binds; when lien thereof ceases.— Ry a writ of fieri facias, the officer
shall be commanded to make the money therein mentioned out of the
goods and chattels of the person against whom the judgment is. T he
writ may be levied as well on the current money and bank notes, as on
the goods and chattels of such person, except such as
as are exempt from
and, as against pur-
levy under chapter one hundred and seventy-eight ; and,
chasers for valuable consideration without notice and creditors, shall
bind what is capable of being levied on only from the time it is delivered
to the officer to be executed. The lien of a writ of fieri facias under
this section, on what is capable of being levied on but is not levied on
under the writ on or before the return day thereof, shall cease on that
day : Provided however, that such lien may be enforced after the return
day of the writ by proceedings under chapter one hundred and seventy-
six, if such proceedings be commenced before that day.
Sec. 3588. If levy be on coin or bank notes, how accounted for.— If the
levy be upon gold or silver coin, the same shall be accounted for at ite
par value as so much money made under the execution. If it be upon
bank notes, and the creditor will not take them at their nominal value,
they shall be sold and accounted for as any other property taken under
execution.
Sec. 358!). Officer's duty to endorse on fieri facias time of receiving it;
remedy against him for failure. —Every officer shall endorse on each writ
of fieri facias the year, month, day, and time of day, he receives the same.
If he fail to do so, the judgment creditor may, by motion, recover against
him and his sureties, jointly and severally, in the court in which the
judgment was rendered, a sum not exceeding fifteen per cent, upon the
amount of the execution.
Sec. 3590. Where several writs of fieri facias, how satisfied.— Of writs of
fieri facias, that which was first delivered to the officer, though two or
more be delivered on the same day, shall be first levied and satisfied,
.
and where several such executions are delivered to the officer at the
same time, they shall be satisfied ratably.
Sec. 3591. What return officer to make on fieri facias; what statement
file therewith; clerk to enter return on execution book.— Upon a writ of
fieri facias, the officer shall return whether the money therein mentioned
is or cannot be made ; or if there be only part thereof which is or cannot
be made, he shall return the amount of such part. With every execu
tion under which money is recovered, he shall return a statement of the
amount received, including his fees and other charges, and such amourit,
except the said fees and charges, he shall pay to the person entitled. In
his return upon every such execution, the officer shall also state whether
or not he made a levy of the same, the date of such levy, and the date
when he received such payment or obtained such satisfaction upon the
said execution ; and if there be more than one defendant, from which
defendant he received the same. Upon the return of said writ of fieri
facias by the officer to the clerk's office or to the court to which it is
returnable, it shall be the duty of the clerk thereof to enter the return of
said officer on the execution book.*
Sec. 3592. Ke-sale of property, if purchaser at officers sale fails to eom-
p|y . remedy against such purchaser.— If, at any sale by an officer, the
purchaser does not comply with the terms of sale, the officer may sell the
property, either forthwith or under a new advertisement, or return that
the property was not sold for want of bidders. If, on a resale, the pro
perty be sold for less than it sold for before, the first purchaser shall be
liable for the difference to the creditor, so far as is required to satisfy
him, and to the debtor for the balance. This section shall not prevent
the creditor from proceeding as he might have done if it had not been
enacted.
Sec. 3593. When venditioni exponas may issue; proceedings thereon. —
When it appears, by the return on an execution, that property taken to
satisfy it remains unsold, a writ of venditioni exponas may issue, where
upon the like proceedings shall be had as might have been had on the
first execution ; except, that if it issue upon a return of no sale for want
of bidders, or of a sufficient bid, the notice shall state the fact, and that
the sale will be made peremptorily.
Sec. 3594. Where officer taking property under execution dies before
sale, and there are no deputies, venditioni exponas may issue to new officer:
proceedings in such case; provision for new execution.— If an officer taking
property under execution die before the sale thereof, and there be no
deputies (of such officer) acting in the case, upon a suggestion of the
fact, a writ of venditioni exponas may be directed to such sheriff or other
officer of the county or corporation wherein the property was taken, as
may be in office at the time the writ issues. Whereupon, the represen
tatives of the officer so dying, shall deliver the property to the officer to
whom the writ is directed. If they foil so to do, on his producing the
said writ and executing a receipt for the property to them, or if, after
three months from the death of such officer, he have no personal repre
sentative, upon a return of the fact, execution may be issued, by virtue
of which such sheriff or other officer of the county or corporation may
seize the said property. An officer, seizing or receiving property under
this section, shall sell it and account therefor as if the levy on it had
been by himself.
Sec. 3595. When money received by officer nnder execution to be repaid
to debtor.— When an officer has received money under execution, if any-
surplus remain in his han^s after satisfying the execution, such surplus
shall be repaid to the debtor; and if the debtor, or his personal repre
sentative, obtain an injunction or »upernede(w to an execution, in whole or
in part, before money received under it, or any part of it, is paid over to
the creditor, the officer shall repay such debtor the money so received
and not so paid over, or so much thereof as the injunction or supersedeas
may extend to, unless the said process otherwise direct.
Sec. 3596. Officer not required to go out of his county or corporation to
pay money received by him.— No officer receiving money under execution,
when the person to whom it is payable resides in a different county or
corporation from that in which the officer resides, shall be liable to have
any judgment rendered against him or his sureties for the non-payment
thereof, until a demand of payment be made of such officer in his county
or corporation, by such creditor or his attorney-at-law, or some person
having a written order from the creditor.
Sec. 3597. After an execution has issued, provision for others.—Subject
to the limitations prescribed by chapter one hundred and seventy-four,
a partv obtaining an execution may sue out other executions at his own
costs, though the return day of a former execution has not arrived ; and
may sue out other executions at the defendant's costs, where on a former
execution there is a return by which it appears that the writ has not been
executed, or that it or any part of the amount thereof is not levied, or
that property levied on has been discharged by legal process which
does not prevent a new execution on the judgment. In no case shall
thee be more than one satisfaction for the same money or thing.
Sec. 3598. When property sold under execution, or its value, is recovered
from obligor in indemnifying bond, or, &c. how new execution obtained. —
When property sold under an execution, or its value, is recovered from
an obligor in an indemnifying bond given before such sale, or from a pur
chaser having a right of action on such bond, the person having such exe
cution, or his personal representative, may, by motion, after reasonable
notice to the person, or the personal representative of the person, against
whom the execution was, obtain a new execution against him, without
credit for the amount for which the property was sold under the former
execution. Such motion shall be made within five years after the right
to make the same has accrued.
Sec. 3599. When and by whom executions may be quashed ; how proceed-
ings thereon stayed until motion to quash is heard.— A motion to quash an
execution mav, after reasonable notice to the adverse partv, be heard and
- ' 1 "
decided by the justice who issued the execution or the court of the county
or corporation in which such justice resides, and in other cases by the
court whose clerk issued the execution, or if it was from a circuit or cor-
poration court, bv the judge thereof in vacation ; and such court or judge,
r ' J J " J
on the application of the plaintiff in the motion, may make an order
staying proceedings on the execution until the motion be heard and
determined, the order not to be effectual until bond be given in such penalty
and with such condition, and either with or without surety, as the
court or judge may prescribe. The clerk from whose office the execution
issued shall take the bond and make as many copies of the order as may
be necessary and endorse thereon that the bond required has been given :
and a copy shall be served on the plaintiff in the execution and on the
officer in whose hands the execution is.
^oe' 'ssne °^ exeCBti°ns on judgment^ and decrees during term of
court at which they are rendered.— Any court, after the fifteenth day of its
term, may make a general order allowing executions to issue on judg
ments and decrees after ten days from their date, although the term at
which they are rendered be not ended. For special cause, it may, in any
particular case, except the same from such order, or allow an execution
theieon at an earlier period.
CHAPTER CLXXVI.
OF THE ADDITIONAL LIEN OP THE WRIT OF FIERI FACIAS, AND THE MEANS
OF ENFORCING RECOVERIES OF MONEY OTHERWISE THAN BY SUCH WRIT.
Sec.
8601. Lien of fieri facias on estate of debtor
not capable of being levied on.
3602. When lien acquired under the pre
ceding section ceases.
3603. Proceedings by interrogatories to
ascertain estate! of debtor on
which fieri facias is a lien, and any
real estate to which he is enti
tled ; how answers to interrogato
ries compelled.
3604. Real estate, out of this state, of
debtor, to be conveyed, and his
personal estate delivered, to offi
cer; how such conveyance and
delivery compelled ; when debtor
discharged from custody
3605. Interrogatories, answers, Ac, to be
returned to court.
3606. How judgment debtor, about to quit
the t-tate, may be arrested and
held to answer,
3607. Court, in which judgment is, or, 4c,
may make order for sale and ap
plication of debtor's estate.
3608. Officer's duty as to sale, collection
and disposition of debtor's estate ;
when to return evidences of debt
to clerk's office.
Sec.
3>m.
3610.
sen.
3612.
3613.
3614.
3615.
1)010.
When by lien of fieri factas there
is a claim on any person other
than judgment debtor, summons
may be sued out against him;
how issued, served, and return
ed.
How he is examined ; court's order
on such examination; execution
thereon.
The proceedings, if he fail to ap
pear, or to disclose bis liability.
Payment, Ac , by garnishee to offi
cer before return of summons.
Judgment as to costs.
By whom and how suit brought to
recover estate on which ,li«ri fa
cias, or Judgment on which It is
sues, is a lien, or to enforce any
liability in respect thereto.
How and when officer receiving
money under this chapter to
make* return thereof and pay net
proceeds; how liable tor failure-
Creditor may i-sue other executions
without impairing lien.
Sec. 3601. Lien of fieri facias on estate of debtor not capable of being
levied on. —Every writ of fieri facias shall, in addition to the lien it has
under section thirty-five hundred and eighty-seven, on what is capable
of being levied on under that section, be a lien, from the time it is deliv
ered to a sheriff or other officer to be executed, on all the personal estate
of or to which the judgment debtor is, or may afterwards and before the
return day of the said writ become, possessed or entitled, and which is
not capable of being levied on under the said section, except such as is
exempt under the provisions of chapter one hundred and seventy-eight,
and except that, as against an assignee of any such estate for valuable
consideration, or a person making a payment to the judgment debtor, the
lien by virtue of this section shall not affect him, unless he had notice
thereof at the time of the assignment, or payment, as the case may be.
Sec. 3602. When lien acquired under the preceding section ceases. —The
lien acquired under the preceding section shall cease whenever the right
of the judgment creditor to enforce the judgment by execution, scire
facias, or action ceases ; or is suspended by a forthcoming bond being
given and forfeited, by supersedeas, or by other legal process.
Sec. 3603. Proceedings by interrogatories to ascertain estate of debtor on
which fieri facias is a lien, ajfd any real estate to which he is entitled; how
answers to interrogatories compelled.— To ascertain the estate on which a
writ of fieri facias is a lien, and to ascertain any real estate in or out of
this state, to which a debtor named in such fieri facia» is entitled, the
judgment creditor may file interrogatories to the debtor, and a copy of
the judgment, with a commissioner of any circuit or corporation court,
who shall issue a summons as in the cases provided for by section thirty-
three hundred and seventy, except that it shall not be served out of
the county or corporation in which the commissioner resides. The
debtor served with such summons shall, within the time prescribed
therein, file answers upon oath to said interrogatories. If he fail so to
do, or file any answers which are deemed by the commissioner to be
evasive, the commissioner, after the service and return day of a notice to
or a rule upon the debtor, issued by such commissioner, and returnable
to a day and place indicated in the process, to show cause against it,
may issue an attachment against such debtor, returnable before him on
a day and place certain, set out in it, to compel such debtor to answer
before the commissioner the interrogatories aforesaid, or any others
which he may deem pertinent. But the said commissioner shall enter
in his proceedings and report to the court mentioned in section thirty-six
hundred and five any and all the objections taken by such debtor against
answering such interrogatories, or any, or either of them; and if the
court afterwards sustain any one or more of such objections, the answers
given to such interrogatories, as to which objections are sustained, shall
be held for naught in that or any other cause.
Sec. 3604. Real estate, out of this state, of debtor, to be conveyed, and his
personal estate delivered, to officer; how such conveyance and delivery
compelled; when debtor discharged from custody.— Any real estate out of
this state, to which it may appear by such answers that the debtor is
entitled, shall be forthwith conveyed by him to the officer to whom was
delivered the said fieri facias; and any money, bank notes, securities,
evidences of debt, or other personal estate, which it may appear by such
answers arc in the possession or under the control of the debtor, shall be
delivered by him, as far as practicable, to the same officer, or to such
other, and in such manner as may be ordered by the court, when the
answers are in court, or by the commissioner, when the answers are not
in court. Unless such conveyance and delivery be made, a writ shall be
issued by the court's order, or, if the answers be not in court, by the com
missioner, directed to the sheriff of any county or the sergeant of any
corporation, requiring such sheriff or sergeant to take the debtor and keep
him safely, until he shall make such conveyance and delivery ; upon
doing which he shall be discharged by the court under whose order the
writ issued, or, if the answers were not in court, by the court by which
the commissioner was appointed, or in either case, if the court be not sit
ting, by the commissioner. He may also be discharged by the said court,
or the judge thereof in vacation, in any case, if the court or judge shall
be of opinion that he was improperly committed or is improperly or
unlawfully detained in custody.
Sec. 3605. Interrogatories, answers, &c, to be returned to eourt. —The
commissioner shall return the interrogatories and answers filed with him,
and a report of the proceedings under the two preceding sections, to the
court in which the judgment is, or if the judgment be of a justice, to the
court of the county or corporation in which such justice resides.
Sec. 3600. How judgment debtor, about to quit the state, may be arrested
and held to answer.—Where a debtor named in a writ of Jim facia*, after
being served with a summons issued by a commissioner, fails, within the
time prescribed therein, to file answers upon oath to said interrogatories,
or shall file answers which are deemed by the commissioner to be eva
sive, if the judgment creditor show, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the
commissioner that there is probable cause for believing that the said
debtor is about to quit this state, unless he be forthwith apprehended, a
writ shall be issued by the commissioner, directed to the sheriff of any
county or the sergeant of any corporation, requiring such sheriff or ser
geant to take the debtor and keep him safely until such answers to the
interrogatories as the commissioner deems proper shall be filed, and such
conveyance and delivery as he deems proper shall be made, or until a cir
cuit or corporation court, or a judge of such court in vacation, shall direct
the debtor's discharge.
Sec. 3607. Court, in which judgment is, or, &c, may make order for sale
and application of debtor's estate.— The court to which the commissioner
returns his report, as required by section thirty-six hundred and five,
may make any order it may deem right, as to the sale and proper appli
cation of the estate conveyed and delivered under sections thirty-six hun
dred and four and thirty-six hundred and six.
Sec. 3608. Officer's duty as to sale, collection, and disposition of debtor's
estate; when to return evidences of debt to clerk's office.— Real estate, con
veyed to an officer under this chapter, shall, unless the court or judge in
vacation otherwise direct, be sold as mules, work-oxen, and horses levied
on are required to be sold under sections nine hundred and six and nine
hundred and seven, and be conveyed to the purchaser by the officer or
his deputy. An officer to whom there is delivery under this chapter,
when the delivery is of money, bank notes, or any goods or chattels,
shall dispose of the same as if levied on by him under a fieri faciat; and
when the delivery is of evidences of debts (other than such bank notes),
may receive payment of such debts within sixty days after such delivery.
Any evidence of debt or other security, remaining in his hands at the
end of said sixty days, shall be returned by him to the clerk's office of
such court. For a failure to make such return, he may be proceeded
against as if an express order of said court for such return had been dis
obeyed.
Sec. 3609. When, by lien of fieri facias there is a claim on any persoe
other than judgment debtor, summons may be sued out against him: how
issued, served, and returned.— On a suggestion by the judgment creditor
that, by reason of the lien of his writ of fieri faciw, there is a liability
on any person other than the judgment debtor, a summons may be sued
out of the clerk's office of the court in which the judgment is, or, if rend
ered by a justice, may be issued by a justice, or sued out of the clerk's
office to which an execution issued thereon has been returned as pro
vided in section twenty-nine hundred and forty-nine, against said per-
Bon; and a copy thereof shall be served on the judgment debtor* as well
as on said person, or, if he be a non-resident, he shall be proceeded
against by publication, according to the provisions of section thirty-two
hundred and thirty, unless the summons was sued out from a justice, in
which case, there shall be no order of publication. The return day of
such summons, when sued out from the clerk's office, may be to the next
term of the court, although more than ninety days after the date thereof,
but if there be publication against a non-resident judgment debtor who
does not appear in the proceedings, there shall be no judgment against
a garnishee prior to the term of the court after the completion of the
order of publication, and when issued by a justice, such summons may
be made returnable before any justice of the county or corporation in
which the same issued, and shall be made returnable within sixty days
at some certain place within such county or corporation to be named in
such summons, and within the magisterial district wherein such defend
ant resides at the time of the service of such summons.
Sec. 3610. How he is examined ; court's order on such examination : exe-
cution thereon. —The person summoned shall be examined on oath. If it
appear on such examination that there is any such liability on him, the
court or justice may order him to pay any debts, or deliver any estate
for which there is such liability, or pay the value of such estate, to any
officer whom it may designate ; and the levy of an execution on such
order shall be valid, although levied by such officer.
Sec. 3611. The proceedings, if he fail to appear, or to disclose his liability.
—If such person, after being served with the summons twenty
days, fail to appear, or if it be suggested that he has not fully disclosed
his liability, the proceedings shall be according to sections twenty-nine
hundred and seventy-seven and twenty-nine hundred and seventy-eight,
mutatis mutandis, except that when the summons is before a justice, he
shall proceed without a jury.
Sec. 3612. Payment, &c. by garnishee to officer before return of summons.
—Any person, summoned under section thirty-six hundred and
nine, may, before the return day of the summons, deliver and pay to
the officer serving it, what he is liable for; and the officer shall give a
receipt for, and make return of, what is so paid and delivered.
Sec. 3613. Judgment as to costs.—Unless such person appear to be liable
for more than is so delivered and paid, there shall be no judgment against
him for costs. In other cases, judgment under sections thirty-six hun
dred and ten and thirty-six hundred and eleven may be for such costs,
and against such party, as the court may deem just.
Sec. 3614. By whom and how suit brought to recover estate on which
facias, or judgment on which it issues, is a lien, or to enforce any lia-
bility in respect thereto. —For the recovery of any estate, on which a writ
of fieri facias is a lien under this chapter, or on which the judgment on
which such writ issues, is a lieu under chapter one hundred and seventyfour,
or for the enforcement of any liability in respect to any such estate,
suit may be maintained, at law or in equity, as the case may require,
the name of the officer to whom such writ was delivered, or in the
name of any other officer who may be designated for the purpose by an order
the court in which the judgment is, or, if the judgment be of a justice,
by an order of the court of the county or corporation in which such jus
tice resides. Noofficer shall be bound to bringsuch suit, unless bond, with
sufficient surety, be given him to indemnify him against all expenses and
costs which he may incur or become liable for by reason thereof. But
any person interested may bring such suit at his own coste in the officer's
name.
Sec. 3615. How and when officer receiving money under this chapter to
make return thereof and pay net proceeds; how liable for failure.— An
officer, receiving money under this chapter, shall, within thirty days
thereafter, make return thereof to the court or the clerk's office of the
court in which the judgment is, or, if it was rendered by a justice, to the
court or clerk's office of the court of the county or corporation in which
such justice resides; and, for failing so to do, shall be liable as if he had
acted under an order of said court. After deducting from said money
a commission of five per cenf. and his necessary expenses and costs,
including reasonable fees to counsel, he shall pay the net proceeds, and
he and his sureties, and their representatives, shall be liable therefor, in
like manner as if the same had been made under a writ of fi>*ri facias on
the judgment, returnable at the end of said thirty days.
Sec. 3610. Creditor may issue other executions without impairing lien.
Although a judgment creditor avail himself of the benefit of this chapter,
he may nevertheless (without impairing his lien under it) from time to
time, according to chapters one hundred and seventy-four and one hun
dred and seventy-five, issue other executions upon his judgment until
the same is satisfied.
Sec. 3617. When and how forthcoming bond may be taken; property
then remains in debtor's possession.— The sheriff or other officer levying
a writ of fieri facias, or distress warrant, may take from the debtor a bond,
with sufficient surety, payable to the creditor, reciting the service of such
writ or warrant, and the amount due thereon (including his fee for tak
ing the bond, commissions, and other lawful charges, if any), with con
dition that the property shall be forthcoming at the day and place of
sale; whereupon, such property may be permitted to remain in the pos
session and at the risk of the debtor.
Sec. 3618. How tenant unable to give forthcoming bond may have dis-
tress warrant returned to court and make defence thereto; when officer, in
such case, to take possession of property levied on; its sale, when perish
able or expensive to keep. —On affidavit by a tenant, whose property has
been levied on under a warrant of distress, that he is unable to give the
bond required in the preceding section, and that he has a valid defence
under section thirty-six hundred and twenty-one, the officer levying the
warrant shall permit the property to remain in the possession and at the
risk of the tenant, and shall return the warrant, together with the affida-
vit, to the first day of the next term of the county or corporation court of
his county or corporation, and thereupon the tenant may make such
defence as he is authorized to make, under section thirty-sis hundred
and twenty-one, to an action or motion on the bond where one is given.
If, however, after such affidavit is made, the claimant of the rent, or
some one for him, shall give bond with sufficient surety, in a penalty
double the value of the property levied on, with condition to pay all
costs and damages which may accrue to any one by reason of his suing
out said warrant, the officer shall take possession of the property and
hold the same subject to the order of the court. If the property be per
ishable, or expensive to keep, the court, or the judge thereof in vacation,
may order it to be sold, and on the final trial of the cause, the court shall
dispose of the property, or proceeds of sale, according to the rights of the
parties.
Sec. 3619. If bond forfeited, where returned ; its effect; clerk to endorse
j.^^ of return. —If the condition of such forthcoming bond be not per
formed, the officer, unless payment be made of the amount due on the
execution or warrant (including his fee, commission, and charges m
aforesaid), shall, within thirty days after the bond is forfeited, return it,
with the execution or warrant, to such court, or the clerk's office of such
court as is prescribed by section nine hundred. The clerk shall endorse
on the bond the date of its return ; and against such of the obligors
therein as may be alive when it is forfeited and so returned, it shall
have the force of a judgment. But no execution shall issue thereon under
this section.
Sec. 3620. Liability of obligors; how recovery on the bond is had.—The
0Dijg0rs ;n ^m-h forfeited bond shall be liable for the money therein men
tioned, with interest thereon from the date of the bond till paid, and the
costs. The obligee or his personal representative shall be entitled to
recover the same by action or motion.
Sec, 3621. When taken under distress warrant, what defense may be madt.
^n an acti°n or motion on such bond, when it is taken under a distress
warrant, the defendants may make defence on the ground that the dis
tress was for rent not due in whole or in part, or was otherwise illegal.
Sec. 3622. Remedy of creditor, if bond quashed.— If any such bond be at
any time quashed, the obligee, besides his remedy against the officer, may
have such execution on his judgment, or issue such distress warrant, as
would have been lawful if such bond had not been taken.
Sec. 3623. In what cases forthcoming bond not to be taken.— No bond for
the forthcoming of property shall be taken on an execution on a forth
coming bond, nor on an execution on a judgment against a treasurer, sher
iff, sergeant, coroner, or constable, or a deputy of any of them, or a surety
or personal representative of any such officer or deputy, for money
received by any such officer or deputy, by virtue of his office, or against
any such officer or his personal representative, in favor of a surety of such
officer, or against a deputy of any such officer, or his surety or personal
representative, in favor of his principal or the personal representative of
such principal, for money paid or a judgment rendered for a default in
office; nor on an execution against an overseer of the poor, or his personal
representative, for money received by him as such ; nor on any other
execution on which the clerk is required by law to endorse that " no <
rity is to be taken."
Sec. 3624. Endorsement on execution in such eases.—On every execution,
on which a forthcoming bond is prohibited from being given, the
endorsement that " no security is to betaken "shall be made by the clerk.
Sec. 3625. When justice may give judgment on forthcoming bond; how
case moved to court, when amount, exclusive of interest, exceeds twenty
dollars. — A justice may, on motion, after ten days' notice of the time and
place thereof, give judgment on any forthcoming bond taken by a con
stable or other officer upon a. fieri facia* issued by a justice. But in every
case, when the amount actually due upon such bond, exclusive of inter
est, exceeds twenty dollars, the justice shall, upon the application of the
defendant, and affidavit tiled that he has, a substantial defence to the
bond, at any time before trial, remove the cause to the court of the county
or corporation wherein the writ of'fieri facian was issued, and the clerk of
the said court shall docket the same ; and it shall be proceeded in as if it
was a motion originally made in said court; and it shall not be discon
tinued by reason of no order being entered of its continuance from one
day to another, or from one term to another.
Sec. 3626. When bond returned, how endorsed and recorded by clerk;
lien thereof; clerk's fee. — Upon the return of such bond to the clerk's
office in the manner prescribed by section thirty-six hundred and nine
teen , it shall be the duty of the clerk to endorse thereon the date of such
return, and to record in a book to be by him kept for the purpose, the
date of such bond and of the return endorsed thereon, the amount of the
penalty thereof, the amount, the payment whereof will discharge such
penalty, and the names of the obligee and obligor to such bond. For
which service the clerk shall be entitled to a fee of thirty cents; and such
bond, when so returned to the clerk's office aforesaid, shall constitute a
lien on the real estate of the obligor.
Sec. 3627. How bond withdrawn from clerk's office.— Such clerk shall
endorse upon such bond the amount of the fee aforesaid ; and the obligee
in such bond, or his agent, may, at any time after the record of such bond
is made by the clerk, required by the preceding section, withdraw the
same from the clerk's office, leaving a copy thereof attested by the clerk.
Sec. 3628. Costs to he included by justice.— The justice, on giving judg-
nient on such bond, shall include in the costs of the judgment the clerk's
fee aforesaid ; and the clerk shall not receive any fee or reward for any
service he is required to perform by the provisions of section thirty-six
hundred and twenty-six except that herein specified.
Sec. 3629. Justice to keep record of judgment; how endorse execution.—
The justice, rendering a judgment under the provisions of this chapter,
shall keep a record thereof in the same manner as he is required by law
in other capes. He shall not stay execution upon such judgment, and
shall endorse on any fieri far-Ut* issued thereon "no security is to be
taken."
Sec. 3630. Exemption to householder, from liability for his debts, of property
of the value of two thousand dollars. In what eases not allowed.—
Every householder* residingt in this state, shall, in addition to the
property or estate which he is entitled to hold exempt from levy, dis
tress, or garnishment, under sections thirty-six hundred and fifty, thirty-
six hundred and lifty-one, and thirty-six hundred and fifty-two, be
entitled to hold exempt from levy, seizure, garnishment, or sale, under
any execution, order, or process issued on any demand for any debt or
liability on contract, + his real and personal estate, or either, to be
selected by him, including money and debts due him, to the value of not
exceeding two thousand dollars:? ProvUlnl, that such exemption shall
not extend to any execution, order, or other process issued on any
demand in the following cases :
First, For the purchase price of said estate, or any part thereof ;
Second. For services rendered by a laboring person, or a mechanic ;
Third. For liabilities incurred by any public officer, officer of a court,
fiduciary, or by any attorney-at-law for money collected by him ;
Fourth. For a lawful claim for any taxes, levies, or assessments :
Fifth. For rent ;
Sixth. For the legal or taxable fees of any public officer, or officer of
a court ;
Seventh. For any debt or liability on contract, as to which the debtor
or party to the contract has waived, as hereinafter provided, the exemp-
tion which he is entitled to claim under this section.
Sec. 3031. How exemption of real estate secured.— In order to secure
the benefit of the exemption of real estate under the preceding section,
the householder shall, by a writing signed by him and duly admitted
to record, to be recorded as deeds are recorded, in the county or corj>oration
wherein such real estate, or any part thereof, is, declare his intention
to claim such benefit, and select and set apart the real estate to be held
by him as exempt, and describe the same with reasonable certainty,
affixing to the description his cash valuation of the estate so selected
and set apart. Fquitable as well as legal estates may be so selected and
set apart.
Sec. 3032. Keal estate, subject to encumbrances, may be set apart as
exempt. If sold to satisfy same, how surplus of proceeds invested or dis
posed of. —Such real estate may be selected and set apart as aforesaid,
subject to any paramount encumbrances thereon. If a sale be had to
satisfy the encumbrances, the surplus of the proceeds, if any, not exceed
ing the amount which the householder is entitled under section thirty-
six hundred and thirty to hold as exempt, shall be invested by the court
wherein the order of sale was made in such other property as the house-
holder may direct, or if the sale was not made under order of any court,
such surplus shall be paid to said householder, and invested by him in
such other property as he may select.
Sec. 3633. Partition or sale of real estate held as exempt by joint tenant,
tenant in common, or coparcener. —If the estate so set apart be held by
the householder as joint tenant, coparcener, or tenant in common, par
tition or sale may be had as provided by chapter one hundred and four
teen, ami in case of sale, the share of the proceeds to which the house
holder is entitled, shall be invested in like manner as surplus proceeds
are required by the preceding section to be invested.
Sec. 3634. How real estate set apart as exempt maybe encumbered or
aliened, if householder be a married man; how sold or exchanged; par-
chaser not required to see to investment or application of purchase money.
The real estate, set apart as aforesaid, shall not be mortgaged, encum
bered, or aliened by the householder, if a married man, except by the
joint deed of himself and his wife, admitted to record as provided in section twenty-live hundred and two ; but the householder may, without
the consent of his wife, mortgage or encumber such real estate for the
purchase money thereof, or for the erection or repair of buildings thereon.
It may be sold and conveyed by the joint act of the householder and his
wife, or by the householder alone, if unmarried, and the proceeds
invested in, or it may in like manner be exchanged for, other property;
but in no case shall the purchaser be required to see to the investment
or application of the purchase money.
Sec. 3635. How real estate, so set apart, held alter death of householder,
The real estate set apart by any householder in his lifetime shall, after
his death, be held by his widow and minor children, or such of them as
there may be, exempt as before and also from the debts and obligations
of such widow and children or any of them, until her death or marriage,
and, after her death or marriage, by such minor children until they
respectively attain the age of twenty-one years, or marry, if they marry
before attaining that age.
Sec. 3636. If not set apart by householder in his lifetime, how widow
an(j mjnor children may have it done.— If no real estate, or not so much as
the householder may have been entitled to set apart, has been so set
apart by him in his lifetime, upon his death, his widow and minor chil
dren, or such of them as there may be, on petition to the circuit or
county court of the county or circuit or corporation court of the corpora
tion, wherein his real estate or the greater part thereof is, may have so
much thereof set apart by commissioners appointed by the court, as the
said householder might have set apart in his lifetime, to be held by
them as it would have been under the preceding section, if it had been
so set apart by said householder.
Sec. 3037. If widow receives dower or jointure, she cannot have the
exemption.— The two preceding sections are subject to this qualification:
If the widow be entitled to dower or jointure, under chapter one hun
dred and two, and claims and receives either, she shall not have the
benefit of the provisions of either of the said sections; but, in such case,
the rights of the minor children thereunder shall not be impaired.
Sec. 363S. Householder may. in lieu of real estate, set apart the exemp
tion in personal estate.— If the householder does not set apart any real
estate as before provided, or if what he does or has so set apart is not of
the value of two thousand dollars, he may (in addition to the property
or estate which he is entitled to hold exempt under sections thirty-six
hundred and fifty, thirty-six hundred and fifty-one, and thirty-six hundred
and fifty-two), in the first case, select and set apart to be held by him as
exempt under section thirty-six hundred and thirty, so much of his per
sonal estate as shall not exceed in value the sum of two thousand dol
lars, and, in the latter case, personal estate, the value, of which, when
added to the value of the real estate set apart, does not exceed the said
sum.
Sec. 3639. How set apart in personal estate.— Such personal estate shall
be selected by the householder and set apart in a writing signed by him.
He shall, in the writing, designate and describe with reasonable certainty,
the estate so selected and set apart and each parcel or article, affixing to
each his cash valuation thereof; and the said writing shall be admitted
to record, to be recorded as deeds are recorded, in the county or corpora
tion wherein such householder resides.
Sec. 3640. If householder has not set it apart in his lifetime, how his
widow and minor children may do so ; how they shall hold it.— If a house
holder die, leaving a wife or minor children, and he has not selected and
set apart personal estate as provided in the two preceding sections, she,
or if she die or marry, such minor children, each by his guardian or next
friend, may select and set apart such personal estate in the manner pre
scribed by the preceding section, and the same so set apart, and what, if*
any, may have been set apart by the householder in his lifetime, shall
be held by the widow and minor children in the same manner and
exempt as real estate set apart under this chapter would be held by
them after the death of such householder.
Sec. 3641. When and how exemption in real or personal estate, held by
widow and minor children, may be sold and proceeds of sale invested.—Any
real or personal estate, set apart and held by the widow and minor chil
dren or any of them, may, on petition filed for the purpose in the circuit
court of the county, or circuit or corporation court of the corporation,
wherein they or any of them reside, or the estate or any part thereof is,
be sold by order of the court and the proceeds of sale invested in other
property, if it appears to the court that such sale rind investment would
be proper. To such petition all others interested (who are not plaintiffs)
shall be made defendants.
Sec. 3642. When the exemption may be set apart.— The real or personal
estate, which a householder, his widow, or minor children are entitled to
hold as exempt, may be set apart at any time before the same is sub
jected by sale or otherwise under judgment, decree, order, execution, or
other legal process.
Sec. 3643. When it is not affected by increase of value of estate set apart.
If the whole real and personal estate set apart be not of greater value
than two thousand dollars at the time it is so set apart, the exemption
thereof shall not be affected by any increase in its value afterwards, unless
such increase is caused by permanent improvements on the real estate set
apart.
•Sec. 3644. When estate set apart exceeds in value the amount of exemp
tion allowed, or is nude so by improvements, equity may subject excess to
debts. —Any creditor, against whom the exemption is claimed, may file a
bill in equity, alleging that the value of the estate at the time it was set
apart was move than two thousand dollars, or that by reason of perma
nent improvements made on the real estate after it was set apart, the
whole estate set apart is of greater value than two thousand dollars; and
if the court be satisfied, from the proofs in the cause, that the allegations
of the bill are true, it shall make such decree or order as may be neces
sary to subject the estate set apart, so far as it exceeds in value the sum
of two thousand dollars, to the payment of the debt or demand of such
creditor.
Sec. 3645. How estate held, in which proceeds of sale of exempted prop
erty are invested, or which was acquired in exchange. How such new
estate, when acquired otherwise than under order of court, to be set apart;
when acquired through court, what to be recorded, and where.—The estate
or property in which proceeds of sale are invested, or which may be
acquired in exchange, under any of the preceding sections of this chap
ter, shall be held exempt in like manner and to the like extent as the
estate sold or exchanged was held. But such estate or property when
acquired in exchange or otherwise than by investment under an order of
court, or unless when set apart by a court, shall be set apart, if real
estate, by such a writing as is prescribed by section thirty -six hundred
and thirty-one; if personal estate, by such a writing as is prescribed by section thirty-six hundred and thirty-nine; and such writing shall be
recorded as provided by the same sections respectively. In addition to
the requirements of said sections, the said writing shall state from what
source the estate was derived and with what means acquired. When
such estate is invested or set apart under an order of court, a copy of the
order and of any report of a commissioner or other officer making the
investment thereunder, if confirmed, and a copy of the order of confirma
tion, duly certified by the clerk of the said court, shall be recorded in
the deed book of the county or corporation wherein the writing, if the
estate had been set apart by a writing, is required to be recorded.
Sec. 3646. When householder's right to exemption is exhausted. —When
estate, real or personal, or both, of the value of two thousand dollars,
has been once set apart to be held by a householder as exempt under section thirty-six hundred and thirty, he shall not afterwards be entitled
to the exemption of any estate other than that so set apart, or that men
tioned in the preceding section and sections thirty-six hundred and
fifty, thirty-six hundred and fifty-one and thirty-six hundred and fifty-
two.
Sec. 3647. Waiver of exemption; its effect; form of waiver.— If any
person gnall declare in a bond, bill, note, or other instrument, by
which he is or may become liable for the payment of money to another,
, . . , , , ' , . ,
or by a writing thereon or annexed thereto, that he waives, as to sucn
obligation, the exemption from liability of the property or estate which
he may be entitled to claim and hold exempt under the provisions
of this chapter, the said property or estate, whether previously set apart
or not, shall be liable to be subjected for said obligation, under legal pro
cess, in like manner ami to the same extent as other property or estate of
such person : except that such waiver shall not extend to or affect the
exemption of the property or estate exempt under sections thirty-six
hundred and fifty, thirty-six hundred and fifty-one, and thirty -six hun
dred and fifty-two. The following or equivalent words shall be suffi
cient to operate as the waiver hereinbefore provided for: "I (or we)
waive the benefit of my (or our) exemption as to this obligation."
Sec. 3648. How claim enforced, as to which exemption is waived, or
which is otherwise paramount to the exemption.— In any proceeding for
the enforcement of a claim, which by reason of the waiver aforesaid or
otherwise, is paramount to the exemption, if there be, in the county or
corporation wherein the proceeding is, estate of the debtor other than
that which has been set apart as aforesaid, such other estate shall be
subjected and exhausted before the estate so set apart is resorted to. If
however the claim is secured by mortgage, deed of trust, or other specific
lien, on the estate set apart, nothing in this section contained shall pre
vent the enforcement of the security in the first instance and before
resorting to other estate of the debtor.
Sec. 364!). When the exemption ceases; how estate then passes; when
and on what exempted estate the lien of a judgment or decree againt householder
attaches.— When any person, entitled as a householder to the
exemption provided for in section thirtv-six hundred and thirty, ceases
- . r , .
to be a householder, or when any person removes from this state, his
right to claim or hold any estate as exempt under the provisions of this chapter, shall cease ; and, upon the death of a householder leaving neither
wife nor minor children surviving him, or, if she or any of them survive
him, and he leaves any estate which they or any of them are entitled to
hold, or to have set apart to be held by them, as exempt under the pre
ceding sections of this chapter, then upon her death or marriage, and if
there be minor children, as soon as the youngest of those who attain the
age of twenty-one years attains that age, or all marry, if they all marry
before attaining that age, the exemption of any estate, real or personal, of
such householder, then remaining and held as exempt under the provis
ions of this chapter, shall cease, and it shall pass as other real and per
sonal estate, according to the law of descents and distributions, or as the
same may be devised or bequeathed by said householder, subject to his
debts; but the lien of a judgment, or decree for money, rendered against
a householder, and which is not paramount to the exemption provided
for in this chapter, shall, as to the real estate held as exempt by him, his
widow, or minor children, attach to such only of that estate as he maybe
possessed of or entitled to at the time the exemption thereof ceases, as
aforesaid, and until that time the said lien shall not be enforced.
Sec. 3650. The articles which a householder, in addition to the foregoing
exemption, may hold exempt from levy or distress.— In addition to the
estate, not exceeding in value two thousand dollars, which every house
holder residing in this state shall be entitled to hold exempt as provided
in the preceding sections of this chapter, he shall also be entitled to hold
exempt from levy or distress the following articles, or so much or so many
thereof, as he may have, to be selected by him or his agent :
First. The family bible;
Second, Family pictures, school books, and library for the use of the
family, not exceeding in all one hundred dollars in value :
Third, A seat or pew in any house or place of public worship :
Fourth. A lot in a burial ground ;
Fifth. All necessary wearing apparel of the debtor and his family; all
beds, bedsteads and bedding, necessary for the use of such family, and all
stoves and appendages put up and kept for the necessary use of the fam
ily, not exceeding three.
Sixth, One cow and her calf till one year old, one horse, six chairs, one
table, six knives, six forks, six plates, one dozen spoons, two dishes, two
basins, one pot, one oven, six pieces of wooden or earthenware, one loom
and its appurtenances, one safe or press, one spinning wheel, one pair of
cards, one axe, two hoes, ten barrels of corn, or in lieu thereof twenty-
five bushels of rye or buckwheat, five bushels of wheat or one barrel of
flour, two hundred pounds of bacon or pork, three hogs, ten dollars in
value of forage or hay, one cooking stove and utensils for cooking there
with, and one sewing machine ; and in the case of a mechanic, the tools
and utensils of his trade, not exceeding one hundred dollars in value, and
in case of an oysterman or fisherman, his boat and tackle, not exceeding
two hundred dollars in value; if the boat and tackle exceed two hun
dred dollars in value, the same shall be sold, and out of the proceeds the
oysterman or fisherman shall first receive two hundred dollars in lieu of
such boat and tackle.
Sec. 3651. Additional articles which are exempted to householder, while
engaged in agriculture. —If the householder be at the time actually
engaged in the business of agriculture, there shall also be exempt from
such levy or distress, while he is so engaged, to be selected by him or his
agent, the following articles, or so many thereof as he may have, to-wit:
one yoke of oxen, or a pair of horses or mules in lieu thereof (unless he
selects or has selected a horse or mule under the preceding section, in
which case he shall be entitled to select under this section only one},
with the necessary gearing, one wagon or cart, two plows, one drag, one
harvest cradle, one pitchfork, one rake, and two iron wedges.
Sec. 3652. What wages of a laboring man, who is a householder, are
*xempt. — Wages owing to a laboring man being a householder, not exceeding
fifty dollars per month, shall also be exempt from distress, levy, or
garnishment. •»
s
£ec ;j(j53_ What articles, on death of householder, vest absolutely in his
widow, minor children, and unmarried daughters.—Upon the death of a
householder, leaving a widow, minor children, or daughters who have
never married, there shall be vested in them or such of them as there
may be, absolutely and exempt from sale for funeral expenses, or debts
of the decedent, or charges of administration on his estate, such of his
property as would, if lie were alive and a householder, be exempt under section thirty-six hundred and fifty from levy or distress for his debts.
Sec. 3654. Articles are not exempt from taxes or levies, or for their pur
chase price.—The exemption under the four preceding sections shall not
extend to distress for state, county, or corporation taxes or levies; nor
shall the exemptions under sections thirty-six hundred and fifty, thirtysix
hundred and fifty-one, and thirty-six hundred and fifty-three extend
to levy or distress for the purchase price of any property therein men
tioned.
Sec. 3655. Deed of trust. &<•., on what property, void.— Any deed of
trust, mortgage, or other writing, or pledge made by a householder to
give a lien on property exempt from distress or levy under section thirtysix
hundred and fifty, shall be void as to such property.
Sec. 3656. Injunction awarded to restrain sale of exempted property, »r
garnishment of wages.— An injunction may be awarded to enjoin the sale
of any property exempt under the provisions of this chapter and to pre-
vent the wages exempted by section thirty-six hundred and fifty-two
from being garnished, or otherwise collected by an execution creditor.
Sec. 3657. Word " householder " construed.—The word " householder "
used in this chapter shall be equivalent to the expression, " householder
or head of a family."
