SEC. 2593. The provisions of this title
relate only to actions and l?roceedings in the circuit courts and other courts of
record, having concurrent Jurisdiction therewith to a greater or less extent, in
such actions and proceedings, except as otherwise provided. 
SEC. 2594. Remedies in the courts of justice are
divided into: 
1. Actions.
2. Special proceedings. 
SEC. 2595. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a
court of justice by which a party prosecutes another party for the enforce- 
ment or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the
punishment of a. public offense. 
SEC. 2597. Actions a.re of two kinds: 
1. Civil.
2. Criminal. 
SEC. 2598. A criminal action is prosecuted by the
state as a party against a person charged with a public offense, for the pun­
ishment thereof. 
SEC. 2599. Every other is a civil action. 
SEC. 2600. The distinction between actions
at law and suits in equity, and the forms of all such aotions and suits, have
been abolished, and there is in this state but one form of action for the en­
forcement or protection of private rights and the redress or prevention of pri­
vate wrongs, which is denominated a civil action. 
SEC. 2601. In such action the party complaining shall
be known as the plaintiff and the adverse party as the defendant. 
SEC. 2602. All persons having
an interest in the subject of the action and in obtaining the relief demanded
may be joined as plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided by law. 
SEC. 2603. Any person may be made a def end­
ant who has or claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff,
or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the
questions involved therein. 
SEC. 2604. Of the parties
to the action those who are united in interest must be joined as plaintiffs or de­
fendants; but if the consent of any one who should be joined as plaintiff can­
not be obtained he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated
in the complaint; and when the question is one of a common or general interest
of many persons or when the parties are very numerous and it may be im­
practicable to brio~ them all before the oourt, one or more may sue or defend
for the benefit of the whole. 
SEC. 2605. Every action
must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest except as other­
wise provided in section 2607; but this section shall not be deemed to authorize
the assignment of a thing in action not arising out of a contract. 
SEC. 2606. In case of an assignment of a thing in action the action of the assignee shall
be without prejudice to any set-off or other defense existing at the time or be­
fore notice of the assignment; but this section shall not apply to a negotiable
promissory note or bill of exchange transferred in good faith and upon good
consideration before due. 
SEC. 2607. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust or a person 
expressly authorized by statute may sue without joining with him the person
for whose benefit the action is prosecuted; a trustee of an express trust, within
the meaning of this section, shall be construed to include a person with whom
or in whose name a contract is made for the benefit of another. 
SEC. 2608. Where a married woman
is a party her husband must be joined with her, except that when the aotion
concerns her separate property or business or alleged antenuptial debts, or is
between herself and her husband, she may sue or be sued alone.
SEC. 2609. Persons sever­
ally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to
bills of exchange and promissory notes, whether the action is brought upon the
instrument or by a party thereto to recover against other parties liable over to 
him, and persons severally liable for the same demand and, without reckoning 
offsets or counter-claims, in the same amount, although upon different obliga­
tions or instruments, may all or a.ny of them be included in the same action at 
the option of the plaintiff. 
SEC. 2609a. In ao­ 
tions upon a "P,Olioy or policies insuring property against loss or damage by fire,
lightning, hall, cyclone or other casualty the plaintiff may join as parties de­
fendant any or all the insurance oompanies liable for the loss or any part thereof,
and all the issues shall be tried at the same time and by the same jury or by
the court, if the aotion is triable thereby, and the verdict or finding shall fix
the amount for which each defendant is liable; or the court may, in its discre­
tion, direct the jury to return. successive verdicts or make separate findings,
so that all issues may be determined at the same trial. If the trial is by a jury
the court may instruct the jury upon one or more of the issues, and, after ver­
dict thereon, instruct upon other issues until they are all disposed of. If the
issues are found in favor of the plaintiff and be is entitled to judgment on the
verdict or findings a separate judgment shall be rendered against each defend­
ant for the sum for which it is found to be liable, together with the proportion
of the costs for which it is liable, which proportion shall bear the same ratio
to the whole amount of the costs as the amount of its liability bears to the total
sum recovered bv the plaintiff from all the defendants, and m addition to such
costs its proportion of the necessary disbursements made by the plaintiff, cal­
culated on the same basis. 
SEC. 2610. The court
may determine any controversy between the parties before it, when it can be 
done without prejudice to the rights of others or by saving their rights; but
when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without the 
presence of other parties, or any persons not parties to the action have such
mterests in the subject-matter of the controversy as require them to be made
parties for their due protection, the court shall order them to be bronght in;
and when in an action for the recovery of real or personal property a person
not a party to the action, but having an interest in the subject thereof, makes
application to the court to be made a partv it may order him to be brought in
by the proper amendment. A defendant against whom an action is pending
upon a contract or for specific real or personal property or for the conversion 
thereof may, at any time before answer, upon affidavit that a person, not a 
party to the action and without collusion with him, makes against him a de­
mand for the same debt or property, upon due notice to such person and the
adverse party, apply to the court for an order to substitute such person in his
place and discharge him from liability to either party, on his depositing in
court the amount of the debt or delivering the property or its 'Value to such
person, as the court may direct; and the court may m its discretion make the 
order. 
SEC. 2611. Whenever any
. party· shall cause it to appear by his affidavit or answer, duly verified, that 
additional parties ought to be brought in according to the preceding section
the court. shall make an order that the 'summons and complaint be a.mended
as shall be necessary, and that the same, with a copy of such order, shall, if
such additional parties be defendants, be served on them within a. prescribed
time according to law; and the action shall be continued as may be necessary
and further proceedings had therein as if such additional parties had been
originally proceeded against. 
SEC. 2612. Where the plaintiff is ignorant of the name or a part of the name
of any defendant, or when any person who may be a. proper party defendant 
to an action to establish or enforce, redeem from or discharge a lien or claim
to any real or personal property in this state as heir, grantee, legal representa­
tive or otherwise is unknown to the plaintiff, such defendant or person may 
be designated a. defendant by so much of the name as is known, or by a. ficti­
tious name, or as an unknown heir, representative, owner or person, as the
case may require, adding such description as may reasonably indicate the per­
son intended, and such person shall be regarded a. defendant in the action and
as sufficiently described therein for all the purposes thereof, including service
of the summons, as upon an absent defendant or otherwise, appointment of
guardian, if an infant, and liability to be bound by the proceedings, orders
and judgments therein. When the true name of the person of such defendant
is ascertained the process, pleadings and all proceedings whatever may be
amended by an order directing the insertion of the true name instead of the
designation employed. In actions or proceedings against a partnership, where
the names of the several members of the partnership are unknown to the
plaintiff, all proceedings may be in the partnership name until the names of
the several partners are ascertained, whereupon the process, pleadings and all
proceedings shall be amended by an order directing the insertion of such
names, and the subsequent proceedings shall be therein. 
SEC. 2613. When an infant is a party he
must appear by guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which the
action is prosecuted or by a judge thereof. 
SEC. 2614. The guardian shall be ap­
pointed as follows: 
1. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the infant, if he be of
the age of fourteen years; or if under that age, upon application of his gen­
eral or testamentary guardian, if he has any, or of a relative or friend of the
infant. If made by a relative or friend of the infant notice thereof must first
be given to such guardian, if he have one; if he barn none, then to the person
with whom such mfant resides. 
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant, if he be
of the age of fourteen years and apply within twenty days after the service
of the summons; if he be under the age of fourteen or neglect to so apply,
then upon the application of anv other party to the action or of a relation or
friend of the infant, after notice of such application being first given to the
general or testamentary guardian of such infant, if he have one ·Ill this state;
and if he have none, then to the infant himself, if over fourteen years of age;
or if under that age and within this state, to the person with whom such in­ 
fant resides. 
3. If such infant is not a resident of this state and his residence be known,
and that fact shall appear by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court or a judge
thereof, and it shall further appear that such infant has no general or testa­
me8'ary guardian in this state, the court or a judge thereof may grant an
order that notice of an application for the appointment of a guardian for the
infant be served upon such infant, if over fourteen years of age, by mailing a
copy of said notice and order to such infant, directed to him at his place of
residence; if under fourteen years of age, by mailing a copy of said notice and
order to the person with whom such infant resides. If the residence of the
infant be unknown the court or a judge thereof may grant an order that the
service of said notice be made by pu blioation thereof in a newspaper, to be
designated in such order as most likely to give notice to such infant, and for 
such length of time as shall be deemed reasonable, not less than once a week
for four weeks successively. 
SEC. 2615. When the defendant is insane at
the time the action is commenced and no guardian has been appointed of his
person and estate the court or a judge thereof shall appoint a guardian of him
for the action. If, during the pendency of any action, either party shall be­
come or pro\Te to be insane the action may be prosecuted or defended by his
guardian in like manner as if it had been commenced after the appointment of
the guardian, or the court or judge may appoint a guardian for the action as
the case may require.
SEC. 2616. Such guardian for the action may be ap­
pointed upon the application of any party tbereto or of any relative or friend
of such insane party, after at least five days' notice of such application shall
have first been ~ven to such insane party personally, if a resident of this state,
and if a non-resident, in such manner as the court or judge shall direct. Upon
the hearing of such application the court or judge may, if deemed desirable
and practicable, order such insane party to appear or be brought in by the
sheriff in person. 
SEC. 2617. No guardian appointed under the pro­
visions of this chapter shall be permitted to receive any money or property
of the ward, exceP.t costs and expenses allowed to the guardian or recovered
for his ward, until he has executed to the ward and filed with the clerk a
bond, in a sum not less than double the value of the property to be received,
with sufficient surety approved by the court or judge, to account for and applv
the same, under the direction of the court; except he be also the general guard­
ian of such ward, in which case additional security may be required m the
discretion of the court. And the court may, upon application, or upon its own
motion at any time, require additional security of any such guardian. 
SEC. 2618. No person shall be
appointed but upon his written consent as guardian for a plaintiff; and no .
guardian of a defendant for the action shall be liable personally for costs un­
less by special order of the court for some misconduct therein. 
SEC. 2619. The proper
place of trial of civil actions is as follows, respectively: 
First. Of an action within one of the classes next following, the county in
which the subject of the action or some part thereof is situated, viz.: 
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein, or 
for the determination in any form of such estate or interest, or for an injury 
to real property.
2. For the partition of real property.
3. For the foreclosure, redemption or other satisfaction of a mortgage of 
real -eroperty. ·
4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any cause. 
Second. Of an action within either of
the two classes next following the county where the cause or some part thereof 
arose, viz. :
1. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to execute his duties, 
for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a person who, bv his
command, or in his aid, shall do anything touchin~ the duties of such officer. 
2. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute; except
that when the offense for which it is recoverable was committed on any water
over which two or more counties have a common jurisdiction, under sections
7 and 8, the action may be brought in either such county. 
Third. Of an action for the annulment or afflrm­
anoe of a marriage, or for a divorce, the county in which the parties or either
one of them are resident. . . 
Against railroads. Fourth. Of an action against any railroad corpora­
tion as defined by section 1861, except appeals in condemnation proceedings,
either in the county in which the cause of action arose or in that in which the
P.laintiff resides, if the road of such corporation extends into either such county;
if such road does not extend into either such county the action may be com­
menced in any county into which the road of such corporation does extend. 
A.gs.inst other corporations. Fifth. Of an action against any other cor­
poration existing under the law of this state, the county in which it is situated
or has its principal office or place of business, or in which the cause of action
or some part thereof arose. 
Other actions. Sixth. Of any other action, the county in which any de­
fendant resides at the commencement of the action; or if neither defendant
resides within this state, any county which the plaintiff designates in bis com­
plaint. 
Actions by state. Seventh. But any action or proceeding by the state
against any county or county officer to recover any indebtedness or state taxes
unpaid, or for any cause, may be brought and tried in any county; and all
actions brought to recover damages for trespass upon rublic lands, when the
amount in controversy exceeds the sum of two hundrec. dollars, mav he com­
menced in any county, at the option of the attorney-general, and shall not be
subject to any change of venue therefrom, except as is provided in subdivis- 
ion 5 of section 2622; provided, that if the defendant in such action of tres­
pass shall make the affidavit provided for in section 2G25 the circuit judge
shall call upon some other such judge or judges to attend and hold court as is
provided by law, and if a trial is baa before any judge so called upon it shall
be with the same effect as if it had been had before the judge of the circuit
wherein the action was brought. 
Whenever the circuit judge before whom any action may be brought under
the provisions of this section shall be a party or near of kin to a. party thereto
such action may be brought and tried in any county of an adjoinmg circuit. 
SEC. 2620. Every action named in either
. of the classes in the first subdivision of the preceding section must be com­ 
menced in the county in which the property or some part thereof is situated,
subject to a change of the place of trial as hereinafter provided; but in every
other action whatever the county designated in the complaint shall be the
place of trial thereof unless the same be changed in the time and manner here­
maf ter provided. 
SEC. 2621. When the county
designated in the summons or complaint in any action is not the proper place
of trial thereof the defendant may, within twenty days after the service of 
the complaint, serve upon the attorney for the plaintiff a demand in writing
that the trial be had within the proper county, specifying it, unless there be
more than one such county, and the reason therefor. Within five days after
service of such demand the plaintiff's attorney may serve a. written consent
that the place of trial be changed, and specify to what county, having the op­
tion to name one of two or more in which it may be properly triable, and such
consent shall change the place of trial accordingly. If the plaintiff's consent, 
be not so served the defendant may, within twenty days after the service of
his demand, move to change the place of trial, and shall have costs if his
motion be granted. The right to obtain a change of the place of trial by {>ro 
ceeding as aforesaid shall not be affected by any other proceedings in the action. 
SEC. 2622. The court or the presiding judge thereof
may change the place of trial in the following cases: 
1. Where the county designated for that purpose in the complaint is not the
proper county and the defendant has moved within the time limited in the
preceding section. 
2. Where there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had
therein. 
3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be pro­
moted by the change. 
4. When the parties or their attorneys shall stipulate in writing to change
the place of trial; and, in the last case, the order may be made by the judge. 
5. In any civil action brought by or in the name of the state of Wisconsin tlia.t
may have been or may hereafter be tried before a Jur1, and snob jury has dis­
agreed or may disagree, or where the verdict ·of said Jury shall have been or
mav be set aside and a new trial ordered therein by reason of such verdict be­
ing· against evidence or contrary to the instructions of the court, if the attorney·
general, his assistant or any attorney representing and appearing for the state
m such action shall make affidavit that he has good reason to and does believe
that the state cannot have a fair and impartial trial in the county where said
action was so tried or new trial so awarded by reason of the prejudice of the
people thereof, and that such prejudice will be likely to prevent the impanel­
ing of a. fair and impartial jury in such county, the judge of said court shall
order such cause removed for trial to some other county m or out of the judi­
cial circuit over which said judge presides as in the opinion of such judge will 
best promote the ends of justice and the convenience of the parties. There
can be but one removal for such cause in any one case. 
SEC. 2623. Whenever the judge is a 
party or interested in the matter in controversy in any action pending be­
fore him, or is related to or has been of counsel for either party, the court or·
the presiding judge thereof shall, upon application of either party, and may
without such application, change the place of trial of such action or call in an­
other judge in the manner prescribed in section 2625.
SEC. 2624. The circuit court and any
county court having civil jurisdiction shall change the place of trial of any
action commenced before a justice of the peace or municipal court by process
personally served, or wherein the defendant shall enter his appearance in such
Justice or municipal court and pending upon appeal to the circuit court of tho
county in which the defendant resides upon his motion, made at the first term
at which the action shall be noticed for trial, if it shall be shown that he was,
when the action was commenced, a resident of such county. 
SEC. 2625. The r 
-oourt shall change the flace of trial of any action upon the application of any 
.party thereto who shal file his affidavit that he has good reason to and does 
1belie\"e
that he cannot have a fair trial of such action on account of the prej­ 
udice of the judge, naming him, or in lieu of granting such application such
judge may, in his discretion, retain such action in the same court without enter­
mg an order changing the place of trial, until the last day of the then current
term, if the application is made at a. term at which the action is triable or the
next term if it is made in vacation; and in the meantime shall call upon some
other circuit judge or judges to attend and hold court during snob current or
next term for the purpose of exercising jurisdiction in all actions in which ap­
plioations for a. change of the place of trial have been made for such reason.
And while so in attendance said judge may make all orders and hear all appli­
-oations and motions that may be brought on for hearing during the time he 
shall so attend. If such other judge or judges (as may be necessary or conven­
ient) can so attend and hold court for such purpose at either such terms the same
shall be done with the same effect as if a change of venue to another circuit
and a trial of such action had been had therein; but if no such judge shall so
attend an order for a change of the place of trial shall be entered in eaoh action 
wherein proper application has been made, on the last day of such term, and
thereupon such change shall be made. If such application shall be made after
any continuance in the action obtained by the party filing such affidavit it shall
be granted only upon payment of the costs of ma"king the same and the costs 
. of the term; but no costs for the attendance of witnesses shall be included if
notice of the application with a copy of such affidavit shall have been served 
,upon the opposite party ten days before the commencement of the term. But
. one change of the place of trial shall be granted to the same side under the
: provisions of this section. When any judge shall be called in pursuant to this  section a.nd sha.11 attend he shall give to the clerk of the court five days' notice
of the time when he will so attend, and such clerk shall give to the attorneys
of record of all the parties to the actions in which application for a change of
the place of trial have been made immediate notice of the time when such judge 
will so attend. 
SEC. 2626. When the place of trial shall be
changed it shall be changed to some county where the cause complained of
does not exist; and shall be, unless - some other judge be called in, sent for
trial into an adjoining circuit when an affidavit of prejudice of the judge is
filed; and except under the . provisions of the next preceding section no such
change shall be made in any action after one continuance had on the motion 
of the party applying for a change unless it shall appear to the court that the
cause therefor was discovered or developed after such continuance. 
SEC. 2627. When the place of trial is
changed all farther proceedings shall be had in the county to which it is
changed, unless otherwise provided by the consent of the parties in writing,
duly tiled, or by the order of the court. All process, pleadings and other pa­
pers, and copies of all entries, orders and minutes in the books of the clerk in
such action shall be certified and transmitted by the clerk of the court to the
like clerk in the county to which the place of trial is changed, with a state- 
. ment of his fees therefor in the action, which shall be paid before transmission 
by the party procuring such change, except in the case mentioned in the first subdivision of section 2G22, when the plaintiff shall pay such fees. The change
shall be complete on tiling the papers transmitted. If such transmission be
not made within twenty days from the making- of the order to change the
place of trial, or the iiling of the record of its atlirmance on appeal, if directlv
appealed from, unless such time be extended, such order shall be deemed ,·a­ 
cated, except in the case mentioned in the first subdivision of section 2G22,
when the change shall be complete 011 the making of the order, and no change
for the same cause thereafter made at tho instance of the party who made
application therefor, and such party shall pay the costs of the application 
within ten days after the expiration of said twenty days; and it shall also be
competent for the other party, on compliance with the foregoing conditions,
within forty days from the time of the making of the order granting the
change, to have the cause transferred to the court mentioned in snob order. 
SEC. 2628. After the
place of trial in an action shall have been changed and a trial had in the county
to which the change was made, the proceedings or order for such change shall
be conclusive except as against such objections as shall have been filed in writ­
ing upon. a motion to remand before such trial was entered upon. If after
the transmission of the papers an order changing the place of trial shall be re­
versed or set aside the effect shall be the same as if an order were made to
change the place of trial back to the county from which it was changed. After
the transmission of the papers back to the county from whioh they came, on
the reversal or setting aside of an order changing the place of trial, the party
who had filed his affidavit of the prejudice of the judge may renew his appli­
cation for a change of the place of trial of said action on such affida vit; pro.
vided, such application be renewed at the first term of said court after the re­
turn of the papers to such court; and such renewed application shall be treated
as the original application for the change of the place of trial of such action
previously made by such party. 
SEC. 2629. A civil action in a court of
record shall be commenced by the service of a summons. From the time of such
service or the issuance of a provisional remedy the court shall be deemed to 
have acquired jurisdiction and to have control of all subsequent proceedings. 
SEC. 2630. The summons shall contain:
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in which the 
action is brought, the name of the county designated by the plaintiff as the 
place of trial, and the names of the parties to the action, plaintiff and defend­ 
ant.
2. A direction to the defendants summoning them to appear within twenty 
days after service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service, and defend 
the action.
3. A notice that in case of failure so to do judgment will be rendered 
against them according to the demand of the complaint. It shall be sub- 
scribed by the plaintiff or his attorney with the addition of his postofflce ad­
dress, at which papers in the action may be served on him by mail. There may,
at the option of the plaintiff, be added at the foot, when the complaint is
not served with the summons and the only relief sought is the recovery of
money, whether upon tort or contract, a brief notice specifying the sum to be
demanded by the complaint. 
SEC. 2631. Such summons shall be substantially in the follow-
ing form: ·· 
-- Court. County. 
THE STATE OF W1sooNs1N, To the said defendant:
You are hereby summoned to appear within twenty days after service of 
this summons, exclusive of the dav of service, and defend the above entitled
action in the court aforesaid; and "in case of your failure so to do judgment
will be rendered against you according to the demand of the complamt, of
which a copy is herewith served upon you. E. F., 
Plaintiff's Attornev.
P. 0. address --, -- County, "\vis. 
If the complaint be not served with the summons the words "of which a
copy is herewith served upon you" may be omitted or erased.
SEC. SEOTioN 2632. The summons must be filed
with the clerk, and a state tax on the action of one dollar paid within ten days
after the service of an answer or demurrer; or if no answer or demurrer be
served at the time of applying for judgment. Otherwise the action shall be
dismissed on motion of any defendant unless the plaintiff shall pay the tax and
five dollars costs of motion. 
SEC. 2633. A oor,y of the complaint may or­
may not be served with the summons at the plaintiff's option. If not so served,
the defendant may, in person or by attorney, within twenty days after the
service of the summons demand in writing a copy of the complaint, specify­ 
ing allace, embracing a postofflce address, within the state, where it may be
serve , and a copy of 1t shall be served within twenty days thereafter accord­ 
ingly.
SEC. 2634. In the case of a defendant
against whom no personal claim is made the plaintiff may deliver to such de­
fendant with the summons a notice subscribed by the plaintiff or his attorney,
settinz forth the general object of the action, a brief description of all the prop­
erty affected by it, if it affect specific real or personal property, and that no
personal claim is made against such defendant; but a copy of the compluint 
shall be served according to the preceding section if demanded. If a defend­
ant on whom such notice is served unreasonably defend the action he shall pay 
costs to the plain tiff. 
SEC. 2635. The summons, together with
the complaint or the notice aforesaid, may be served by the sheriff of the
county where the defendant may be found or by any other person not a party
to the action. The service shall be made and the summons, with the com­
plaint or notice accompanying, if any, with proof of the service, returned to
the person whose name is subscribed thereto with reasonable diligence. The -
person subscribing the summons may, at his option, by an indorsement thereon, 
fix a time for the service thereof, and the service shall then be made accord­
ingly. 
SEC. 2636.
The summons and the accompanying complaint or notice aforesaid shall be
served by delivering a copy thereof as follows: 
1. If the action be against a minor under the age of fourteen years to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother or guardian, or if there be
none within this state then to any person having the care and control of such
minor, or with whom he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be employed. 
2. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable
of conducting his own affairs in consequence of excessive drinking or other­
wise, and for whom a guardian has been appointed, to such guardian and to
the defendant personally. 
- 3. If against a joint-stock company not organized as a corporation and hav- 
ing seven or more shareholders or associates, and sued in the name of the pres­
ident under section 3210, to such president thereof, or if not, found after due
diligence to any other officer or shareholder; and if against a joint-stock com­
pany or association organized under the laws of any other state, territory or
country and doing business in this state upon any officer or agent thereof
within this state or upon the secretary of state or any agent or attorney ap- -
pointed for that purpose under section 1770b. 
4. In all other cases to the defendant personally; or, if not found, by leav­
ing a copy thereof at his usual place of abode in presence of some one of the
family of suitable age and discretion, who shall fie informed of the contents 
thereof. 
SEC. 2r;37. Actions against corporations
shall be commenced in the same manner as personal actions against natural
persons. The summons and the accornpuuyiug complaint or notice aforesaid 
shall be served, and such service held of the same effect as personal service o:n
a natural person, by delivering a copy thereof as follows: 
1. If the action be against a county, to the county clerk.
2. If against a town, to the chairman of the town and the town clerk. 
3. If against a citv, to the mayor and the city clerk.
4. If against a village, to the president of the board of trustees and the vil­ 
lage clerk.
5. If against a school district, to the director and the clerk thereof. 
6. If against a. railroad corporation whose general office is within this state, 
to the president, secretary, superintendent, general manager or general solicitor
thereof, if either shall reside and be within the county in which such action is
brought; and in case neither of the officers named reside and are in such
county, then to any station, freight or ticket agent thereof who shall reside and
be within such county. 
7. If against a. railroad corporation whose general office is or all whose
aforesaid officers shall reside or be without the state, to any station, freight,.
ticket or other agent thereof within the state, or to the person mentioned in section 1857a. 
8. If against a corporation ownin~ or operating sleeping or hotel cars or the
like which has not its general office in the state, to any person having charge
of any of its cars or any agent found within the state. 
9. If against any insurance corporation not organized under the laws of this
state, to the agent or attorney thereof having authority therefor by appoint­
ment under the provisions of sections 1915, 1953 or 1966-32, or to any agent
of either such corporation who shall solicit insurance on its behalf or on behalf
of any property owner Qr person desiring insurance, or who transmits an ap­
plication for or a policy of insurance to or from any such corporation, makes
any contract for insurance, collects or receives any premium therefor, or ad­
justs, settles or pays a. loss for such corporation or aids or assists in doing either
or in transacting any business for the same, or on any person who advertises 
to do any such thing.
10. If against any other corporation organized under the laws of this state, 
to the president or other such chief officer, vice-president, secretary, cashier,
treasurer, director or managing agent thereof, or in the manner provided in section 1775b in the cases therein provided for. 
11. If against any corporation or association having an aid or benefit depart­
ment under its control or in connection therewith, not organized under the
laws of this state and doing business herein, either as such corporation or asso­
ciation or by means or in the form of a local or subordinate aid or benefit
association, or of subordinate branches, lodges or divisions, and which has failed 
to appoint an agent or attorney in compliance with section 1953, to any officer
of any such local or subordinate aid or benefit association, branch, lodge or division. 
12. If against any foreign building and loan association au~horized to 'do busi­
ness in this state, upon the attorney thereof havmg authority therefor by ap­
pointment under the provisions of section 2014-20, or [upon] to any agent or
officer thereof who may be found within this state; if against any such associa­
tion not authorized to do business in this state, upon any person who shall so­
licit upon its behalf, or who transmits to or from it an application for member­
ship, or a share, certificate, bond or other evidence of indebtedness, or in any
manner aids or assists in doing either, or in transacting any business for such
association, or advertises to do either of such or any like thing. 
13. If against any other foreign corporation, to any such oflicer being within
the state, or to any agent having charge of or conducting any business there­
for in this state, or any trustee or assignee of such corporation, or upon the
secretary of state, as provided in section 1770b. But such service can be made
upon a forei~ corporation only either when it has property within the state
or the cause of action arose therein, or the cause of action exists in favor of a
resident of the state, and upon the secretarv of state only when the cause of
action arises out of business transacted in this state or when the defendant has 
property therein.
14: If against any foreign joint-stock COJllpany, common-law partnership or 
express company doing business in this state, upon.the attorney thereof having
~uthority therefor by ~ppoin.tment under the provisions of section 1770b, sub­ 
ject to the terms of said section. 
SEC. 2638. The state may be made a 
party defendant in any action in the circuit con rt between other parties, when
necessary to the proper determination of their rights, and the summons be
served by delivering a copy to the attorney-genera1 or leaving it at his office 
in the capitol with his assistant or clerk. But no judgment for the reco,·ery
of money or property or costs shall be rendered in any such action against 
the state. 
SEC. 2638a. Any officer or person who
shall serve a snrnnrons which shall be the commencement of an action in any
court shall, at the time of the service thereof, indorse upon the copy or copies
which he shall deliver to the defendant or defendants the date upon which the
same was so served, sign his name thereto and add, if an officer, his official title; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to invalidate a service
not so made, and that anv officer making such service and failing to make such
indorsement shall not collect any fees therefor. 
SEC. 2639. Service of the summons
may be made without the state or by publication upon a defendant against 
whom a cause of action appears to exist, or who appears to be a necessary or
proper party to an action relating to real estate, on obtaining an order there­
for as provided in the next following section, in either of the followin~ cases. 
1. When such defendant is a non-resident of this state or his residence is
unknown, or is a foreign corporation, and the defendant has property within
the state, or the cause of action arose therein, and the .court has jurisdiction 
of the subject of the action, whether the action be founded on contract or tort.
2. When the defendant, being a resident of this state, has departed there­ 
from with intent to defraud his creditors or avoid the service of a summons,.
or keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent. 
3. When the subject of the action is real or personal property in this state
and the defendant has or claims a lien or interest, actual or contin~ent, therein.
or the relief demanded consists wholly or partially in excluding the defendant
from any interest or lien therein. 
4. When the action is to foreclose, redeem from or satisfy a mortgage, claim
or lien upon real estate, and the defendant is a proper party thereto. 
5. When the action is for a divorce. 
6. When the action is against any private corporation organized under the
laws of the state and the proper officers on whom to make service do not exist
or cannot be found. 
·7. When the subject of the action is real or personal property in this state,
and one or more of the defendants are unknown and have or claim a lien 01 
interest, actual or contingent, therein, and the relief demanded consists wholly
or partially in excluding such defendant or defendants from any lien or inter­
est therein. 
SEC. 2640. The
order mentioned in the preceding section shall be made by the court or a 
judge thereof. The application therefor shall be based upon the complaint,
duly verified and filed, and an affidavit, together showing the facts required
to exist and that the plaintiff is unable, with due diligence, to make service of
the summons upon the defendant in respect to whom such order is applied for,
and also the postotlice address of such defendant or that the plaintiff is un­
able, after due diligence, to ascertain it. The order shall direct that service
of the summons be made by its publication in a newspaper to be designated
as most likely to give notice to tlie defendant to be served, for such length of 
time as shall be deemed reasonable, not less than onde a week for six weeks,
and that on or before the day of the first publication the plaintiff deposit, in
a specified postofflce, a copy of the summons, together with a copy of the
complaint, or of a notice of the object of the action as the case may require, se­ 
curely inclosed in an envelope, the postage duly paid, addressed to the defend­
ant at his postoffloe, to be therein named, or a direction that such deposit mav 
be omitted because the defendant's postoflice address cannot be ascertained;
or that, at the plaintiff's option, a copy of the summons and a copy of the
complaint or of the notice aforesaid be delivered to the defendant personally
without the state; which, when done, shall have the same effect a.s a com­
pleted publication and mailing. The first publication must be made within 
three months from the date of such order, and service shall be deemed com­ 
plete at the expiration of the full period prescribed by the order after the date
of the first publication, copies having been duly deposited in the postofflce 
when required. 
SEC. 2642. Proof of the service of the summons and
of the complaint or notioe, if any, accompanying the same shall be as follows: 
1. If served by the sheriff, h~ certificate thereof showing place, time and
manner of service. • 
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof showing place, time and man­
ner of service, that he knew the person served to be the defendant mentioned
in the summons and left with, as well as delivered to, him a copy; and if the
defendant was not personally served he shall atate in such affidavit when,
where and with whom such copy was left .. 
3. The written admission of the defendant, whose signature or the super­
scription of whose name to such admission shall be presumptive evidenoe of
genuineness. 
4. In case of publication, the affidavit of the publisher or printer, or his
foreman or principal clerk, showing the same and specifying the date of the
first and last publications and an affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the sum­
mons, with the complaint or n<?tice, in the postoffice 8;S presoribed by law, and
the order thereof if such deposit shall have been required by the person mak­
ing the same.
SEC. 2643. A voluntary appearance of a de­ 
fendant is equivalent to a personal service of the summons upon him. 
SEC. 2644. The forms of pleading in civil actions in courts
of record and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings are deter­
mined. are those prescribed by this chapter. 
SEC. 2645. The first pleading on the part of the plaint­ 
iff is the com plaint.
SEC.2646. The complaint shall contain:
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in which the action 
ts brought, the name of the county designated by the plaintiff as the place of
trial and the names of the parties to the· action, plaintiff and defendant. 
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting each cause of
action, without unnecessary repetition. 
3. A demand of the judgment to which the plaintiff supposes himself en­ titled; if the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof shall be 
stated. 
SEC. 2647. The plaintiff may unite in the
same complaint several causes of action, whether tbey be such as were for­
merly denominated legal or equitable, or both, where they arise out of: 
1. The same transaction or transactions connected with the same subject of
action; or 
2. Contract, express or implied; or
3. Injuries, with or without force, to person or property or either; or 
4. Injuries to character; or
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for the with­ 
holding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same; or
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages for the 
withholding thereof; or
7. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a oontraot or by operation of law.
But the causes of action so united must all belong to one of these classes and 
must affect all the parties to the action, and not require different places of
trial, and must be stated separately.
SEC.  2648. The only pleading on the part
of the defendant is either a demurrer or an answer. It must be served within
twenty days after the service of the copy of the complaint. 
SEC. 2649. The defendant may demur to the complaint
when it shall appear upon the face thereof either: 
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant or the
sn bject of the action ; or 
2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue; or
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties for the 
same cause; or
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant; or 
5. That several causes of action have been improperly united; or
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of 
action; or
7. That the action was not commenced within the time limited by law
SEC. 2650. The demurrer may be ta.ken
to the whole complaint or to any of the alleged causes of action therein; and
the defendant may demur to one or more of the several causes of action stated
in the complaint and answer the residue. 
SEC. 2651. The demurrer shall
distinctly specify the grounds of objection to the comrlaint, in the language of 
the subdivision of section 2649 relied upon, adding, i based upon the second
or fourth subdivision, a particular statement of the defect, and if based upon the
seventh, a reference to the statute claimed to limit the right to sue. Unless it
do so the demurrer may be stricken out. 
SEC. 652. If the complaint be 
amended a copy thereof must be served and the defendant must demur or an­
swer thereto within twenty days thereafter or the plaintiff, upon ·filing .Proof
of service thereof and of the defendant's omission, may obtain Judgment m the 
manner provided for a failure to answer in the first instance. 
SEC. 2653. When any
of the matters enumerated in section 2649 do not appear upon the face of the
complaint the objection may be taken by answer; and the objection that the
action was not commenced within the time limited by law may in any case be 
taken by answer. 
SEC. 2654. If no objeo­
tion be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to
have waived the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the
court and the objection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to 
oonstitnte a cause of action. 
SEC. 2655. The answer of the defendant must
oonta.in: 
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the complaint
controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof
sufficient to form a belief. . · 
sa. A statement of any new matter constituting a. defense or counter-claim,
in ordinary and concise language, without repetition. 
SEC. 2656. The counter-claim mentioned in 
the last section must be one existing in favor of a defendant and against a
plaintiff between whom a. several judgment might be had in the action, and
arising out of one of the following causes of action: 
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set forth in
the complaint as the foundation of the plaintiff's claim or connected with the
subject of the action. 
2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action arising also
on contract, express or implied, and existing at the commencement of the
action. 
3. Where the plaintiff is a non-resident of the state any cause of action what­
ever, arising within the state and existing at the commencement of the action,
except that no claim assigned to the defendant shall be pleaded by virtue alone
of this subdivision. 
But each counter-claim shall be pleaded BB such and be so denominated, and 
the answer shall contain a demand of the judgment to which the defendant
supposes himself to be entitJed by reason of the counter-claims therein. 
SEC. 2656a. A defendant or a person interpleaded
or intervening may have affirmative relief against a co-defendant, or a oo­
defendant and the plaintiff, or part of the plaintiffs, or a co-defendant and a 
person not a party, or against such person alone, upon his being brought in;
but in all such cases such relief must involve or in some manner affect the con­
tract, transaction or property which is the subject-matter of the action. Such
relief may be demanded in the answer, which must be served upon the partv
against whom the same is asked or upon such person 'not a party, upon hfs
being brought in, or may be by a cross-corhplaint served in like manner or by
petition in rntervention under section 2610, or by answer, served in like man­
ner, when new parties are brought in under sections 2610 and 2611. In all
cases the court or the judge thereof may make such orders for the service of
the pleadings, the bringing in of new parties, the proceedings in the cause, the
triaI of the issues and the determination of the rights of the parties as shall be
just. The party azainst whom such relief is demanded may demur to the an­
swer or cross-com1~aint, as provided in section 2658, or may answer, serving
such demurrer or answer on the defendant claiming such relief, as well as upon 
the plaintiff, or he may object thereto at the trial for insufficiency. If he shall 
serve no answer or demurrer and make no such objection he shall be deemed
to have denied the allegations relied on for such relief. Unless such an answer,
petition or cross-complaint be so served such affirmative relief shall not be ad- 
judged. 
SEC. 2657. The defendant may set forth, -
by answer, as many defenses and counter-claims as he may have, whether they 
be such as were formerly denominated legal or equitable, or both; they must
each be separately stated, and defenses must refer to the causes of action which
they are intended to answer in such manner that they may be intelligibly dis­
tinguished. 
SEC. 2658. The plaintiff may, within twenty days, demur 
t,) the answer or any defense therein when, upon the face thereof, it does not 
state facts sufficient to constitute a defense; and to any counter-claim therein
where, upon the face thereof, it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a 
counter-claim either: 
1. Because the court has no jurisdiction thereof.
2. Because defendant has not legal capacity to maintain the same.
3. Because there is another action pending between the same parties for the 
same cause. \
4. Because there is a defect of parties. 
5. Because the counter-claim does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action. 
6. .Because the cause of action stated is not pleadable as a counter-claim to
the action. 
SEC. 2G59. Such do­
murrer may be taken to the whole answer or to any of the alleged defenses or
counter-claims therein; and the plaintiff may demur to one or more of the
several defenses and counter-claims and reP.lY to the residue of the counter­ 
claims. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objection taken,
and when to a counter-claim, in a similar manner to that required in a demur­
rer to the complaint; otherwise, it may be stricken out.
SEC. 2660. When any of the objections to a
counter-claim mentioned in section 2658 do not appear upon the face of the
answer the objection may be taken by reply. If not so taken, either by the
demurrer or reply, the plaintiff shall be deemed to have waived the same,
excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court and the objection
that the counter-claim does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. 
SEC. 2661. When the answer contains a counter­
claim the plaintiff may, within twenty days, if he do not demur thereto, reply
to the counter-claim. Such reply niust contain: 
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the counter­
claim controverted by the plaintiff, or of any knowledge or information thereof 
sufficient to form a belief.
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense, in ordinary and 
concise language, without repetition.
The plaintiff may set forth by reply as many defenses to the counter-claims 
as he may have; they must be separately stated and refer to the counter-claims
which they are intended to answer in such manner that they may be intelligi­
bly distinguished.
SEC. 2662. If the an­
swer contain any counter-claim to which the plaintiff fails to reply or demur, 
within the time prescribed by law, the defendant may move, on a,. notice of
not less than eight days, for such judgment as he is entitled to upon such
counter-claim, and if the case require it an assessment of damazes may be
made or he may at the trial have the counter-claim treated as established with­
out proof.
SEC. 2663. The defendant may, within twenty
days, demur to the reply or any defense therein, when, upon the face thereof,
it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense, stating such grounds. 
SEC. 2664. Every pleading
aforesaid must be subscribed by the party or his attorney and must be filea
before the commencement of the first term after its service at which the ac­ 
tion is noticed for trial. In case of a failure by either party to file any plead­
ing on his part such pleading may be stricken out, on motion, unless permitted 
to be filed on such terms as the court shall think proper; or the opposite party
may file the copy thereof served on him.
SEC. 2635. When any pleading is verified
every subsequent pleading, except a. demurrer, must be verified also; but the
verification may be omitted when an admission of the allegations might sub- 
ject the party to prosecution for felony. And no pleading can be used in a ·
criminal prosecution against the party as evidence of a fact admitted or alleged
in such pleading. 
SEC. 2666. The verification must be to the­
eff'ect that the same is true to the knowledge of the person making it, except
as to those matters stated on information and belief, and as to those matters
he believes it to be true, and must be by the affidavit of the party, or if there
be several parties united in interest and pleading together, by one, at least, of
such parties acquainted with the facts, if such party be within the county where 
the attornev resides and capable of making the affidavit. The affidavit may
also be made by the a~ent or attorney, if the action or defense be founded upon
a written instrument m his possession or if all the material alle~tions of the
pleadings be within his personal knowledge or belief. When tne pleading is
verified by any other person than the party he shall set forth in the affidavit
his knowledge or the grounds of his belief on the subject, and the reason why
it is not made by the party, and if made on knowledge shall state that the­
pleading is true to his know ledge, and if on his belief that he believes it to be­
true. When a corporation is a party the verification may be made by any
officer thereof; and when the state or any officer thereof in its behalf is a party
the verification may be made by any person acquainted with the facts. 
SEC. 2667. Everv
material allegation of the complaint, not controverted by the answer as here­
inbefore prescribed, and every material allegation in a counter-claim not con­
troverted by the reply as herein before prescribed, shall, for the purposes of the
action, be taken as true. But the allegation of new matter in an answer not
pleaded as a part of a counter-claim or of new matter in a. reply is to be deemed
controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the 
case may require.
SEC. 2GG8. In the construction of a 
plea<ling for the purpose of determining its etf cct its allegations shall be liber­ 
ally construed, with a. view to substantial justice between the parties. 
SEC. 2669. No variance between the al­
legation in a pleading and the proof shall be deemed material unless it shall
actually mislead the adverse partv to his l?rejudice in maintaining his action
or defense upon its merits. Wlienever it shall be alleged that a party has
been so misled that fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and in
what respect he has been misled, and thereupon the court may order the
pleading to be amended upon such terms as may be just. 
SEC. 2670. When the variance is not
material, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be
found in accordance with the evidence or may order an amendment without
costs. 
SEC. 2671. When, however, the allegation
of the cause of action, counter-claim or defense to which the proof is directed
is unproved, not in some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope
and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof. 
SEC. 2672. It shall not be necessary
for a party to set forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged,
but he shall deliver to the adverse party, within ten days after a demand
thereof in writing, a copy of the account which, if the pleading is verified,
must be verified by his own oath or that of his agent or attorney, to the effect
that he believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof.
The court, or a judge thereof, or a county judge or court commissioner may
order a. further account when the one delivered is defective; and the court 
may in all oases order a bill of particulars of the claim of either party to be
fnrnished.
SEC. 2673. In pleadin~ a. judgment or
other determination of a court or officer of special jurisdiction it shall not he
necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or de­
termination may be stated to have been duly given or made. If such allega.:
tion be· controverted the partv pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial
the facts conferring jurisdiction. 
SEC. 267 4. In
pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a. contract it shall not be 
necessary to state the facts showing such performance, but it may be stated
generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if
such alleS"3:tion be controverted the party pleading shall be bound to establish
on the trial the facts showing such performance.
SEC. 2675. In an action, defense or
counter-claim founded upon an instrument for the payment of money only it
shall be sufficient for the party to give a copy of the mstrument, and to state
that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse partv, a specified sum which 
he claims.
SEC. 2676. In pleading a private statute or a right derived therefrom it shall be suf­
ficient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of its passage, and the
court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof. In like manner tlie statutes,
acts and resolves of the congress of the United States and of the legislature of
any state or territory of the United States published by authority of the re­
spective govemments thereof may be pleaded
SEC. 2677. In an action for libel
or slander it shall not be necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic 
facts for the purpose of showing the application to the plaintiff of the defam­
atory matters out of which the cause of action arose; but it shall be sufficient 
· to state generally that the same was published or spoken concerning the
plaintiff, and if such allegation be controverted the plaintiff shall be bound to
establish on the trial that it was so published or spoken.
SEC. 2678. In the actions mentioned in the
]ast section the defendant may in bis answer allege both the truth of the maJ;.. 
ter charged as defamatory and any mitigating circumstances to reduce t,he 
amount of damages; and whether he prove the justification or not he may 
give in evidence the mitigating circumstances. 
SEC. 2679. In an ao­ 
tion to recover the possession of property distrained doing damage, an answer
that the defendant or person by whose command he acted was lawfully pos­
sessed of the real propertv upon which the distress was made and that the prop­
erty distrained was at the time doing damage thereon shall be good without
setting forth the title to such real property. 
SEC. 2680. In anv 
action by husband and wife to reoover damages for any injury to the person of 
the wife sustained by or through the act, procurement or negligence of the
defendant, or for which the defendant is liable, the plaintiffs may claim in the 
complaint, and prove and recover, all the damages sustained by both, and which
might otherwise be recovered by separate actions. 
SEC. 2681. If a demurrer,
ans'Yer or reply be frivolon_s the court or the presiding judge thereof may, upon 
motion and five days' notice to the party in terposing the same, strike such
pleading out and thereupon either order judgment in favor of the adverse
party or, in his discretion, allow the party interposing the same to plead over,
within a limited time, on such terms as may be just. If no further pleading 
be served within the time so fixed the adverse party may obtain such judgment
as he may be entitled to in the manner provided in case of a failure to answer 
or reply In the first instance. 
2682. A sham answer,
reply or defense, whether by way of denial or avoida!1~e, ~ay be stricken out 
on motion and upon such terms as the court or presiding Judge thereof may,
in discretion, impose; but no defense shall be deemed sham the truth of which 
shall be supported by the affidavit of a single witness either by way of verifi­
cation to the pleadings or in opposing a motion to strike out. 
SEC. 2683. If 
any pleading contain irrelevant, redundant or scandalous matter it may be
stricken out, with costs, on motion of the adverse party, and the court or pre­ 
siding judge, in discretion, may order the attorney who signed the same to pay 
the costs. When the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain
that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent the court or
presiding judge may require the pleading to be made definite and certain by 
amendment. 
SEC. 2684. A party may move upon one notice
to strike out an answer or reply as sham, and frivolous, and irrelevant, and the
court or presiding judge, on such motion, may strike out any matter or defense
as sham, any other as frivolous, or as irrelevant or otherwise, as the pleading
shall be found to be. 
SEC. 2685. Any pleading may be once 
amended by the party of course, without costs and without prejudice to the
proceedings already had, at any time before the period for answering it ex­
pires; or it can be so amended at any time within twenty days after the serv­
ice of the answer or demurrer to such pleading. In such case a copy of the 
'amended pleading must be served on the adverse party. But if it shall be
made to appear to the court that such amendment was made for the purpose
of delay or that the same was unnecessary and the opposite party will thereby
lose the benefit of a term for' which the action is or may be noticed, the
amended pleading may be stricken out and such terms imposed as to the court
may seem just. 
SEC. 2686. After the decis­
ion of & demurrer the court ma,Y, in its discretion, if it appear that the demur­
rer was interposed in good faith, allow the party to plead over or to with­
draw the demurrer on such terms as may be just. lf a demurrer to a complaint.
be sustained upon the ground that several causes of action have been improp­
erly united the court may, in its discretion and upon such terms as may be -
just, order the action to be divided into as many actions as may be necessary 
to the proper determination of the causes of action therein mentioned.
SEC. 2687. The plaintiff and defendant,
respectively, may be allowed, on motion and on such terms as may be just, to 
make & supplemental complaint, answer or reply alleging facts material to
the case occurring after the former complaint, answer or reply, or of which
the party was ignorant when his former pleading was made. 
SEC. 2688. No person shall be arrested in civil ac­
tions except as prescribed by this chapter, but this provision shall not apply to 
proceedings for contempt. 
SEC. 2689. The defendant may be ar­
rested as hereinafter prescribed in the following cases: 
1. In an action ~r the recovery of damages on a cause of action· not arising
out of contract, where the defendant is not a resident of the state, or is about
to remove therefrom, or where the action is for an injury to person or char­
acter, or for seduction, or for. criminal conversation, or for mjuring, or for
wror:gfully taking, detaining or converting property, and in actions to recover
damages for the value of property obtained by the defendant under false pre­
tf:'nses or false tokens. 
:.t In an action for fine or penalty, or for money received, or for property
embezzled or fraudulently misapplied by a public officer or by an attornev,
solicitor or counsel, or by an officer or agent of a corporation or banking ass"o­
ciation, in the course of his employment as such, or by any factor, agent,
broker or any person in a fiduciary capacity, or for any misconduct or neglect
in office or in a professional employment. 
3. In an action to recover possession of personal property unjustly detained
where the property or any part thereof has been concealed, removed or dis­
posed of so that it cannot be found or taken by the sheriff. 
But no female shall be arrested in any action except for a wilful injury to
person, character or property. 
SEC. 2690. An order for the ar­
rest of the defendant must be obtained from the court in which the action is
brought or a judge. 
SEC. 2691. The order may be made where it shall
appear to the judge, by the affidavit of the plaintiff or of any other person, that
a sufficient cause of action exists, and that the case is one of those mentioned
in section 2689. 
SEC.  2692. Before making the order the court or judge
shall require & written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with or with­
out sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment the plaintiff 
will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant and all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified
in the undertaking, which shall be at least one hundred doliars. If the under­
taking be execute~ by the plaintiff without sureties he shall annex thereto an
affidavit that he is a resident and householder or freeholder within the state
and worth double the sum specified in the undertaking above all bis debts and
liabilities.
SEC. 2698. The order may be made to ao­
company the summons or at any time afterwards before judgment. It shall
be directed "in the name of the state of Wisconsin," to the sheriff of a partic­
ular oounty or generally to the sheriff of any county where the defendant
may be found, and require him forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail
in & specified sum, and to return the order, at a time and place therein men·
tioned, to the plaintiff or attorney by whom it shall be subscribed or indorsed. 
SEC. 2694. The affidavit, undertaking and order
of arrest shall be delivered to the sheriff who, ur,on arresting the defendant, 
shall deliver to him copies thereof; and the sheriff shall, withm ten days after
such arrest, file the undertaking with the clerk of the court in which the ac­ 
tion is brought. 
SEC. 2695. The sheriff shall execute the order
by arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody until discharged by
law, and may call the power of the county to his aid in the execution of the
arrest, as in case of process. 
SEC. 2696. The defendant, at any time before
execution, shall be discharged from arrest, either upon giving bail or upon de- 
positing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest as provided in this chap­
ter. 
SEC. 2697. The defendant may give bail bY. causing
a written undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient bail, stating
their places of residence and occupations, to the effect that the defendant
shall, at all times, render himself amenable to the prooess of the court during 
· the pendency of the action and to such as may be issued to enforce the judg­
ment therein; or if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section 2689, an undertaking to the same effeot as that provided
by section 2722. 
SEC. 2698. The defendant may, at the time
of his arrest, instead of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount men­
tioned in the order. The sheriff shall thereupon give the defendant a certifi­
cate of the deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody. 
SEC. 2699. The sheriff shall, within four days
after the deposit, pay the same into court, and shall take from the officer re­
ceiving the same two certificates of payment, the one of which he shall de­
liver to the plaintiff and the other to the defendant. For any default in making
such payment the same proceedings may be had on the official bond of the
sheriff to colleot the sum deposited as in other cases of delinquency.
SEC. 2700. If the money be deposited as provided
in the last two sections bail may be .given and justified upon notice as pre­
scribed in section 2703 any time before judgment, and thereupon the judge
before whom the justification is had shall direct, in the order of allowance1 
that the money deposited be refunded to the defendant, and it shall be refunded
accordingly. 
SEC. 2701. Where money shall have been so
deposited, if it remain on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the
payment of money to the plaintiff, the clerk shall, under direction of the court,
apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment shall
refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of
the defendant the clerk shall return to him the whole sum deposited and re­
maining unapplied. 
SEC. 2702. Within
the time limited for that purpose the sheriff shall deliver the order of arrest to
the plaintiff or attorney by whom it is subscribed, with his return indorsed 
and a certified copy of the undertaking of the bail; the plaintiff, within ten
days thereafter, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not accept
the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be ex­ 
onerated from liability. 
SEC. 2703. On receipt of such notice
by the sheriff he or the defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the
plaintiff or attorney by whom the order of arrest is subscribed notice of justi­
fication of the same or other bail (specifying the places of residence and occu­
pation of the latter), before a judge of the court at a specified time and place;
the time to be not less than five nor more than ten days thereafter. In case
other bail be given there shall be a new undertaking in the form prescribed in section 2697. 
SEC. 2704. The qualifications ~f bail must be
as follows: 
1. Each of them must be a resident and householder or freeholder within
the state. 
2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order of arrest, in
property within the state exclusive of property exempt from execution; but a
Judge, on justification, may allow more than two bail to justify severally in
amounts less than that expressed in the order if the whole justification be
equivalent to that of two sufficient bail. 
SEC. 2705. For the purpose of justification each
of the bail shall attend before the judge at the time and place mentioned in
the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintiff, touch­
ing his sufficiency, in such manner as the judge, in his discretion, may think
proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing and subscribed by the
bail, if required by the plaintiff. 
SEC. 2706. If the judge find the bail
sufficient be shall annex the examination to the undertakmg, indorse his al­
lowance thereon and cause them to be filed with the court, and the sheriff shall
thereupon be exonerated from liability. In such case, if the bail shall have
annexed to their undertaking, at the time of its delivery to the sheriff, their 
· affidavit showing their sufficient qualifications as bail, according to section 
9704, the judge may, in his discretion, by order, require the costs of the justi­
fication before him, includin~ fees to the bail as witnesses, to be forthwith paid
by the party requiring justification. 
SEC. 2707. At any time before a failure to
comply with their undertaking the bail may surrender the defendant in their •
exoneration or he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the countv where
he was arrested, in the following manner: .. 
1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be delivered to the
sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his custody thereon, as upon an order
of arrest, and shall, by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender. 
2. U{)Oil therroduction of a copy of the undertaking and sheriff's oertifi­
oate a Judge o the court may, upon a notice to the plaintiff of eight days,
with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated; and on filing
the order and the papers used on such application they shall be exonerated
accordingly. 
But this section shall not apply to the arrest for the causes mentioned in the
third subdivision of section 2689, so as to discharge the bail from an under­
taking given to the effect provided by section 2722. 
SEC. 2708. For the purpose of surren­
dering the defendant the bail, at any time or place before they are finally
charged, may themselves arrest him or by a wntten authority indorsed on a
certified copy of the undertaking may empower any person of suitable age
and discretion to do so.
SEC. 2709. Every person surrendered in ex­
oneration of his bail shall be kept in safe custody until he shall satisfy the 
judgment rendered against him or be discharged according to law. 
SEC. 2710. In case of failure to comply
with the undertaking the bail may be proceeded against by action only.
SEC. 2711. The bail may be exonerated either 
by the death of the defendant or bis imprisonment in the state prison, or by 
his discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process,
or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county where be was arrested, in exe­
cution thereof, within twenty days after the commencement of the action
against the bail or within such further time as may be granted by the court. 
SEC. 2712. If, after being arrested, the defend­
ant escape or be rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not
made instead thereof the sheriff' shall himself be liable as bail. But he may
discharge himself from each liability by the giving and justification of bail as
provided in section 2703 to section 2706, inclusive, at any time before process
against the person of the defendant to enforce an order or judgment in the
action. 
SEC. 2718. If a judgment be recovered
against a sheriff upon his liability as bail and an execution thereon be re­
turned unsatisfied in whole or in part the same proceedings may be had on the
official bond of the sheriff, to collect the delinquency, as m other oases of de­
linquency. 
SEC. 2714. The bail taken upon the arrest
shall, unless they justify or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the
sheriff by action for damages which he may sustain by reason of snob omission, 
SEC. 2715. A defendant arrested
may, at any time before the justification of bail, apply, on motion, to vacate 
the order of arrest or to reduce the ameunt of bail. 
SEC. 2716. If the motion be made upon affidavit on
the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same 
by affidavit or other proof, in addition to those on which the order of arrest
was made. 
SEC. 2717. The plaintiff' in an ao­
tion to recover the possession of personal property may, at the time of issuing
the summons or at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of
such property as provided in this chapter.
SEC. 2718. Where a deliverv 
is claimed an affidavit must be made by the plaintiff or some one on his behalf 
showing:
1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed, particularly de­ 
scribing it, or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof by virtue of a spe­
cial property therein, the facts in respect to which shall be set forth. 
t1 2. That the property is wrongfully detained bv the defendant. 
3. The alleged. cause of the detention thereof according to his best know l­
edge, information and belief. 
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or fine, pursuant
to the statute, or seized under an execution or attachment against the property
of the plaintiff, or iI so seized that it is by statute exempt from such seizure; 
and,
5. The actual value of the property. 
SEC. 2719. The plaintiff may thereupon, by
an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county
where the property claimed may be to take the same from the defendant and
deliver it to the plaintiff. 
SEC. 2720. Upon the receipt of the
affidavit and notice with a written undertaking, executed by one or more suf­
ficient sureties, approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution
of the action, for the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof
be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any cause be 
recovered against the plaintiff the sheriff shall forth with take the property de­
scribed in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent,
and retain it in his custody. He shall also without delay serve on the defend­
ant a copy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking by delivering the same to
him personally, if he can be found, or his agent from whose possession the
property is taken; or if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual
place of abode of either with some person of suitable age and discretion. 
SEC. 2721. The defendant may,
within three days after the service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking,
give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the sntfioienoy of the sureties. If he
fails to do so he shall be deemed to have waived all objections to them. When
the defendant excepts the sureties shall justify, on notice, in like manner as
ufon bail on arrest. And the sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiencr.
o the sureties until the objection is either waived, as above provided, or until
they shall justify or new sureties shall be substituted and justify. If the de­
fendant except to the sureties he cannot reclaim the property as provided in 
the next section. 
SEC. 2722. At anv time before
the delivery of the property to the plaintiff the defendant may,"' if he do not
except to the sureties of the plaintiff, require the return thereof upon giving
to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sure­
ties, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the property,
stated in the affidavit of the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, 
if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may
for any cause be reoovered. against the defendant. If a. return of the prop­ 
erty be not so required within three days after the taking and service of notice 
to the defendant it shall be delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided in section 2727. 
SEC. 2723. The defendant's sureties, upon
a notice to the plaintiff of not less than two nor more than six days, shall
justify before a judge in the same manner as upon bail on arrest. Upon
such justification the sheriff shall deliver the rroperty to the defendant.
The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendants sureties until they justify
or until justification is complete or expressly waived, and may retain the prop­
erty until that time; but if they or others in their place fail to justify at the
time and place appointed he shall deliver the property to the plaintiff. 
SEC. 2724. The provisions of sections 2704,
2705 and 2706, in respect to bail upon an order for arrest, shall be applicable
to the qualification and justification of sureties under this chapter. 
SEC. 2725. If the property or any
part thereof be concealed in a building or inclosure the sheriff shall publicly 
demand.its delivery; if it be not delivered he shall cause the building or in-·
closure to be broken open and take the property into his possession; and if 
necessary he may call to his aid the power of his county. 
SEC. 2726. When the sheriff shall have taken
property as in this chapterlrovided he shall keep it in a secure place and de­ 
liver it to the party entitle thereto upon receiving his lawful fees for taking
and his necessary expenses for keeping the same. 
SEC. 2727. If the
property taken be claimed by any other person than the defendant or his
agent and such person shall make affidavit of his title thereto and right to the
possession thereof, stating the grounds of such right and title, and serve the
same upon the sheriff the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property or 
deliver it to the plaintiff unless the plaintiff, on demand of him or his agent,
shall indemnify the sheriff against such claim by an undertaking executed by 
two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits that they are each
worth double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the plaint­ 
iff and are freeholders or householders of the county; and no claim to such
property by any other person than the defendant or his agent shall be valid
against the sheriff unless made as aforesaid; and notwithstandin~ such claim
when so made he may retain the property a reasonable time to demand such
indemnity. 
SEC. 2728. The sheriff shall file the notice, affi­
davit and undertaking given by the plaintiff, with proof of service thereof,
with the clerk of the court in which the action is pending, within twenty davs 
after taking the 1.roperty mentioned therein. The undertaking mentioned 'in section 2722 shal, after the justification of the sureties or a. waiver thereof, be
delivered by the defendant to the plaintiff or filed with the clerk of the court 
in which th~ action is pending for the benefit of the plaintiff. 
SEC. 2729. Any creditor shall be entitled
to proceed by attachment in the circuit court for the proper county, against
the property of his debtor, whether a natural person or corporation, in the
cases, upon the conditions and in the manner prescribed in this chapter. No
writ of attachment shall be issued against a municipal corporation. 
SEC. 2730. The writ of attachment shall be
issued on the request of the plaintiff, bv the clerk of the oonrt, either at the
time of the issuing of the summons in" the action or at any time thereafter
before final judgment. It shall be directed by the style of "The State of Wis­
consin " to the sheriff or other proper officer of some county in which the prop·
erty of the defendant, so proceeded against, may be supposed to be, and shall
require him to attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant wit bin
his county or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's
demand, together with costs and expenses. It shall be attested in the name of
the presiding judge of the court and be sealed with its seal. 
SEC. 2731. Before any writ of
attachment shall be executed the plaintiff or some one in his behalf shall make
and annex thereto an affidavit statmg that the defendant named in such writ
is indebted to the plaintiff in a sum exceeding fifty dollars, and specifying the
amount of such indebtedness as near as may be, over and above all legal set­
offs, and that the same is due upon contract, express or implied, or upon judg­
ment or decree, and. containing a further statement that the deponent knows
or has good reason to believe either: 
1. That the defendant has absconded or is about to abscond from this state,
or is concealed therein, to the injury of bis creditors, or keeps himself con­
cealed therein with intent to avoid the service of a summons. 
2. That the defendant bas assigned, conveyed, disposed of or concealed or
is about to assign, convey, dispose of or conceal his property or any part thereof
with intent to defraud his creditors. 
3. That the defendant has removed or is about to remove any of his prop­
erty out of this state with intent to defraud his creditors; or 
4. That the defendant fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the obli­
gation respecting which the action is brought; or 
5. That the defendant is not a resident of this state; or
6. That the defendant is a foreign corporation; or if created under the· 
laws of this state that all proper officers thereof on whom to serve the sum­
mons do not exist, are non-residents of the state or cannot be found; or 
7. That. the action is brought against a defendant as principal on an official
bond to recover money due the state or to some county or other municipality
therein, or that the action is brought against the defendant as principal upon 
a bond or other instrument given as evidence of indebtedness for or to secure· 
the payment of monev embezzled or misappropriated by such defendant and
whilst acting as an" officer of the state or of any oounty or municipality
therein. 
Or, an affidavit statin~ that a cause of action sounding in tort exists in favor
of the plaintiff and against the defendant named in such writ, that the dam­
ages sustained and claimed exceed the sum of fifty dollars, specifying the
amount claimed, and the further statement, either: 
1. That the defendant or any of the defendants is not or are not residents 
of this state or that his or their residence is unknown and cannot with due
diligence be ascertained, or 
2. That the defendant is a foreign corporation. 
Attachment on demands not yet due. An action may be maintained
and a writ of attachment issued on a demand not yet due in any cases men­
tioned in this section, except the cases mentioned in the fifth, sixth and seventh subdivisions, and the same proceedings in the action shall be had and the same
affidavit shall be required as in actions upon matured demands except that
the affidavit shall state that the debt is to become due; provided, that the
undertaking specified in section 2732 shall be conditioned in three times the
amount demanded. In case an attachment be issued before the maturity of
the debt and a traverse to such attachment is sustained the court shall dismiss
the action and shall render a judgment of costs against the plaintiff. 
SEC. 2731a. The affidavit required by the preceding section may be amended at any time before the trial by the substitution of a
new affidavit containing allegations of facts existing at the time of making
the former affidavit, and the new affidavit shall stand in lieu of the old one for
all purposes, and if traversed or denied trial shall be had thereon as in other 
cases. 
SEC. 2731b. In at­
tachment proceedings against a partnership, if the names of the individual
members thereof are unknown to the plaintiff or the person who makes the 
required affidavit in his behalf, the proceedings may be conducted in the part­
nership name until the names of the several rartners are known, whereupon 
the process, affidavit and all proceedings shal be amended by an order direct­
ing the insertion of such names, and all subsequent proceedings shall be in the
true names of the parties. If the affidavit uses a firm name it shall be pre­
sumed that the individual names were then unknown to the plaintiff or affiant. 
SEC. 2732. Before the writ of attach­
ment shall be executed a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with
sufficient surety, shall be delivered to the officer, to the effect that if the de- 
fendant recover judgment the plaintiff shall pay all costs that may be awarded
to the defendant and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the writ
of attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall
not be less than two hundred and fifty dollars. The surety shall justify hie
responsibility by affidavit annexed to such undertaking, stating that he is a 
resident and householder or freeholder within the state and worth the sum
specified in the undertaking in property therein over and above all his debts
and exclusive of all property exempt from execution; provided, that no under­
taking shall be necessary in any action wherein this state, any county, town
or other municipality therein shall be plaintiff. 
SEC. 9733. In case the defendant shall notbe
satisfied with the amount specified in the undertaking or with the sureties he
may, upon not leas than five days' notice to the plaintiff, apply to a judge of
the court for additional security and such judge may, by order, require the
plaintiff to give and file another undertaking, to be approved by him, in such
sum a.s he shall deem proper, not exceeding the value of the property attached,
as appears from the appraisement. The surety shall justify his responsibility 
as provided in the preceding section; but if there be more than one surety
they may be accepted if it appear that they are jointly responsible for the re­ 
quired sum. 
SEC. 2734. The writ
of attachment, the affidavit and undertaking therefor shall be annexed together,
but not to the summons in the action; the officer executing the writ shall re­
turn thereon all his proceedings under and by virtue thereof and thereafter,
and within twenty days from receipt of the undertaking, shall file all said pa­
pers with the clerk of the court. No action shall be maintained on any such
undertaking until after final judgment in the action unless the same be discon- 
tinned or dismissed. 
SEC. 2735. Alias writs of attachment in the same
action may be issued to the sheriffs or other proper officers of different counties
at any time before judgment. In such case a copy of the affidavit annexed to
the original shall be annexed, and such writ indorsed as an alias. Such other
writs shall be executed and returned in the same manner as the original. 
SEC. 2736. The officer having
the writ of attachment shall execute the same without delay by seizing so much
of the propert1 of the defendant, when the same can be found in his county,
as will be sufficient to satisfy the demand of the plaintiff, with costs and ex·
penses, and by making an inventory thereof; he shall cause all personal prop·
erty attached by him to be appraised by two disinterested freeholders of the
county, who shall be first sworn by him to make a true appraisement thereof,
which appraisement shall be signed by the appraisers, and the appraisement
and inventory shall be returned with the writ of attachment; he shall serve
copies of the writ of attachment, affidavit and undertaking annexed, and in·
ventory, upon the defendant in the same manner as a summons. ln case of a
non-resident or a foreign corporation the sheriff shall serve such copies on any
agent of such defendant in the county, if any be known to him. If two or
more writs against the same defendant shall be executed on the same property
an inventory and appraisement shall be made in but one of the actions, and the
officer who executes such writs shall indorse on the copy thereof served upon
the defendant a notice to him that the property seized in such action is the
same property seized in the action in which the inventory and appraisement
are made, giving the title of such action; and such officer shall state in his re·
turn on such writs the fact of such indorsement. 
SEC. 2737. To attach real estate or any ~­
right or interest therein it shall not be necessary for the officer to enter upon ~-­
or be within view of the land. But he shall file in the office of the register of ·
deeds a copy of the writ of attachment, with his certificate indorsed or affixed,
that by virtue of the original writ, of which such copy is a true copy, he has 
. attached such real estate or all the interest of the defendant therein, describ­
ing the same with convenient certainty, as the property of a defendant, nam­
ing him, in such writ. The real estate or the right or interest therein so at;..
tached shall be bound and the attachment a lien thereon from the time of so
filing such copy and certificate. 
SEC. 2738. All the property in the state of
the defendant named in the writ, not exempt from execution, shall be liable to
be attached. Rights or shares in the stock or property of any association or -
corporation, with the interests and profits thereon, and other personal prop­
erty shall be attached in the same manner in which an execution may be levied
on the same and the provisions respecting the levy of an execution thereon
shall be applicable to the execution of an attachment. Personal property
shall be bound by the writ of attachment from the time the same is attached 
thereby. 
SEC. 2739. If in any case when an
officer has a writ of attachment against property there is any reasonable doubt
as to the ownership of the property or as to its liability so to be taken on the
writ of attachment the officer may require sufficient security to indemnify
him for attaching such property. 
SEC. SECTION 2740. When any property taken
on a writ of attachment or received by the officer from any garnishee in any
civil action, including actions commenced before a justice of the peace and ap­
pealed to the circuit court, shall be likely to perish or to depreciate in value
before the probable end of the action or the keeping thereof shall be attended
with much loss or expense the court or a judge may, by order, direct the same
to be sold in such manner and upon such time and terms as the best interests 
of the parties demand, and the jnoney realized shall be held by the officer in
lieu of the property sold. 
SEC. 2741. The officer
shall keep the property seized by him and the proceeds of such as shall have 
been sold to answer any judgment which may be recovered in such action;
and shall, subject to the direction of the court or jud~, collect and receive
into his possession all the debts, credits and effects of the defendant. The
officer may also take such legal proceedings, either in his own name or in the
nanie of such defendant, as may be necessary for that purpose and discontinue
the same at such times and on such terms as the court or judge may direct. 
SEC. 27 42. The
defendant may, at any time before judgment, deliver to the officer having the
writ or any alias writ on which property has been attached an undertaking,
executed bv at least two sureties, to the effect that they will, on demand, pay 
to the plain tiff the amount of the judgment, with all costs that may be recovered
against such defendant in the action, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, with interest. Such sum shall be at least double tbe amount al­
leged to be due in the affidavit annexed to the writ or, at defendant's option,
at least double the value of the property attached upon such writ or alias
writ, according to the appraisement; pr, if real estate, m a sum fixed by order
of the court. or a judge, on notice. The sureties shall justify their responsi­
bility as provided m section 2732, but may be accepted 1f it appears that they
are jointly responsible for the required sum. The defendant, notwithstanding
tbe delivery of such undertaking, may deny any or all of the allegations of
the affidavit annexed to the writ of attachment as provided in section 2745. 
SEC. 2743. The officer shall forthwith give to the plaintiff a copy of
such undertaking with notice of the time when the same was delivered to him;
and the plaintiff shall, within three days after receipt thereof, give notice to
the officer that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties or he shall be
deemed to have waived all objections to them. When plaintiff exce:pts the
sureties shall justify ifi like manner as bail upon arrest and the provisions of sections 2704, 2705 and 2706 shall be applicable thereto. The officer shall be
responsible for the sufficiency of such sureties, and may therefor retain posses­
sion of the attached property until they shall so justify or objection be so 
waived. Thereafter the officer shall deliver the property attached and held
by him upon such writ to such defendant; if real estate.ra certificate of the
discharge thereof, which may be filed in the office of the register of deeds;
and the action shall thenceforward proceed as if no writ of attachment ha(I
been issued; but if the plaintiff recover, all his costs and disbursements thereor.
shall be taxed and included in his judgment. At any time after judgment iu. 
his favor the plaintiff may maintain an action upon any such undertaking and
shall recover the amount of such judgment, with interest and costs, not exceed­ 
ing the sum specified in such undertaking. 
SEC. 2744. The court or the pre­
siding judge thereof may, at any time before the trial of the action or a release
of the property under the preceding section, vacate or modify the writ of at 
tachment for irregularity or other sufficient cause, upon five davs' notice of
motion; and the motion therefor may be combined with a motion to increase
the plaintiff's security under section 2733.
SEC. 2745. At any time within ter,
days after notice of the issuing of a writ of attachment against his property
or within the time in which he may answer the complaint in the action, but
before judgment, the defendant may, by a. special answer, verified, served and
filed as a pleading is required to be, deny the existence, at the time of the
making of the affidavit annexed to the writ of attachment, of any or all the
material facts stated therein except the alleged liability and the amount thereof.
The issue -so raised shall be tried by the court, before the trial of the action,
if such issue be joined before such trial, and the affirmative thereof be upon
the plaintiff. And if the defendant shall have made an assignment for the
benefit of his creditors his assignee may deny the existence of all the material
facts alleged in such affidavit according to the provisions of section 1693b.
SEC. 2746. If the court on the
trial of such issue find for the defendant the judge presiding shall tax the de­ 
fendant's costs of such trial, and an order shallbe entered that the property 
.attacbed be forthwith delivered up to the defendant or his assignee; and if 
such trial be before the trial of the action the jury shall, on the latter trial,
assess the damages sustained by the defendant or his assignee by reason of the
taking and detention or sale of the property attached or by reason of any in­
jury tbereto; and the same, together with the costs so taxed, shall be applied 
by them as a set-off to the plaintiff's demand, and if in excess of it, or the plaint­
iff fail to recover, the verdict shall be for the defendant or his assignee for the
.amount his due. But if such trial be after the trial of the action the court may
impanel a jury or proceed jtself to assess such damages, and shall in like man­
ner apply the same when so assessed, with the costs so taxed, as a set-off to the 
f
laintiff's demand as established upon the trial, and give jud~ent accordingly.
f the court on the trial of such issue find for the plaintiff tne presiding judge 
shall tax the plaintiff's costs of such trial, and the amount so taxed shall, if he
recover, be· taxed by the clerk as disbursements in the action; and if the de­
fendant or his assignee recover, judgment in the action shall be applied toward
payment thereof. 
SEC. 2747. If on the trial of
the action the jury find for the defendant or the plaintiff be nonsuited they shall
specially assess the damages sustained by him by reason of the taking and de­
tention or sale of any property attached or by reason of any injury thereto, and 
the defendant shall have judgment therefor, in addition to any other damages
found in his favor. If the action be dismissed or discontinued the court, on
request of either party, shall impanel a jury to assess such damages, and the
defendant shall have judgment therefor accordingly. In all cases where there
is no defense to the action or where the plaintiff shall be entitled to judgment
by default and the court shall have found for the defendant, upon the issue
raised by the traverse, the court shall, upon request of either party, impanel a 
jttl"J to assess the defendant's damages by reason of the attachment, and such
damages, together with the costs taxed upon the trial of such issue, shall be
applied as a set-off to the plaintiff's demand, and judgment shall be rendered
accordingly. 
SEC. 2748. 
Whenever the action shall be dismissed or discontinued or the defendant in
the writ of attachment shall recover judgment all the mone.v or property held: 
bv any writ of attachment shall be delivered up to him, subject to the plaint­
iff's rights on appeal, and he may maintain an action on the plaintiff's under­
taking for the damages assessed as sustained by reason of the writ of attachment,
and his costs. And in cases where real estate has been attached upon the
entry of final judgment in favor of the defendant in the action, either on the
merits or on discontinuance or dismissal or- on satisfaction of a plaintiff's judg­
ment, the clerk of court shall certifv the fact of such judgment or satisfaction,
and on filing such certificate with the register of deeds in any county in which
lands attached in the action are situated such register shall enter such certifi­
cate upon the records of his office in satisfaction of the lien of such attachments. 
SEC. 2749. When the plaint­
iff shall have recovered judgment in the action the sheriff or officer shall sat­ 
isfy the same out of the property attached or received from any gabnishee or
otherwise, if sufficient therefor: 
.1. By paying over to such plaintiff all money attached or received upon
sales of property, or from any garnishee, or upon any debts or credits, or so
much thereof as shall be necessary. 
2. By selling, under such execution as may be issued on such judgmen~, so
much of the attached property, real or personal, as shall be necessary to satisfy
the balance unpaid, according to the provisions regulating sales upon execu­
tion; except as provided in subdivision four hereof. 
3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant shall have
passed out of the hands of the sheriff without having been sold or converted
mto money such sheriff shall repossess himself of the same, and for that pur­
pose shall have all the authority which he had to seize the same under the
writ of attachment; and any person who shall wilfully conceal or withhold
such property from the sheriff shall be liable to double damages at the snit
of the party injured. 
4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be paid the sheriff may
proceed to collect the evidences of debt that may ham been seized or attached
by virtue of the writ of at~achment or that may have been delivered up by any
person summoned as garnishee, and to prosecute any bond he may have taken
m the course of such proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the pay­
ment of the judgment and costs. When the judgment and all costs of the pro­
ceedings shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand, shall deliver
over to the defendant the residue of the property attached or that may have
been received from any garnishee, or the proceeds thereof. 
SEC. 2750. The actions herein
authorized to be brought by the sheriff or officer may be prosecuted by the 
plaintiff or under his direction, upon the delivery by him to the sheriff or offl­
cer of an undertaking, with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaint­
iff will indemnifv him for all damages, costs and expenses thereon not exceed·
ing two hundred and fifty dollars in any one action; such sureties shall, when
required by the sheriff or officer, justify by making an affidavit that each is a
householder and worth double the amount of the penalty named in the under·
taking over and above all debts and exemptions. 
SEC. 2751. If the .property, 
moneyv.oredits or effects of any defendant in an action shall be seized by a
writ of attachment issued in such action and such defendant shall die pending
the action or after judgment and before execution issued thereon and satf&.
faction thereof, the property, money, credits and effects so attached shall be
applied to the payment of the judgment rendered in such action, either before
or after the death of such defendant, and execution may be issued on such 
judgment and satisfied out of the property so attached in the same manner as
1f such defendant were living. 
SEC. 751a. Any person not a party to the
action, whose property is attached, may, at any time, either before or after
judgment, be made a party upon his application for the purpose of removing
or discharging the attachment. The court may grant such summary relief as
shall be just, and may in proper cases award an issue for trial by jury.
SEC. 2752. Any creditor shall be en .. titled to proceed by garnishment, in the circuit court of the proeer county,
against any person (except a municipal corporation) who shall be indebted to
or have any property whatever, real or personal, in his possession or under his
control belonging to such creditor's debtor, in the cases, upon the conditions
and in the manner prescribed in this chapter. The term plaintiff is used in
this chapter to embrace every judgment creditor, and the term defendant a
judgment debtor. 
SEC. 2753. Either at the time of is­
suing the summons or at any time thereafter, before final judgment, in any
action to recover damages founded upon contract, express or implied, or in
any cause of action mentioned in section 2731, or upon judgment or decree, or
at any time after the issuing of an execution against property and before the
time when it is returnable, the plaintiff or some person in his behalf may make
an affidavit eta.ting the amount of the plaintiff's claim against the defendant,
over and above all offsets, and stating that he verily believes that some person,
naming him, is indebted to or has property, real or personal, in his possession
or under his control belonging to the defendant, or either or any of the de­
fendants in the action or execution, naming him or them, and that the indebt­
edness or property mentioned in such affidavit is, to the best of the knowledge
and belief of the person making such affidavit, not by law exempt from seiz­
ure or sale upon execution. Any number of garnishees may be embraced in
the same affidavit and summons hereinafter provided for; but if a joint lia­ 
bility be claimed against any it shall be so stated in such affidavit, and the
garnishees named as jointly liable shall be deemed jointly proceeded against,
otherwise the several garnishees shall be deemed severally proceeded against.
Such affidavit may be amended at any time before trial by the substitution
of a new affidavit containing allegations of facts existing at the time of mak­
ing the original, and such new attidavit shall stand in lieu of the original for 
all purposes, and if traversed or denied trial shall be had thereon as in other
cases. In proceedings against a partnership, if the names of the several mem­
bers thereof are unknown to the plaintiff, the affidavit and all other papers
and proceedings may be entitled in the name of the partnership until the
names of the members thereof are known, whereupon the papers and proceed­
ings shall he amended by an order directing the insertion of such names, and
all subsequent proceedings shall be in their names. When the affidavit uses &
firm name the presumption shall be that the individual names of the several
members are unknown. 
SEC. 275-i. The plaintiff shall annex or en bjoin
to such affidavit a garnishee summons, which shall be substantially in the fol­ 
lowing form: 
. A. B., plaintiff, } 
vs. 
0. D., defendant,
E. F., garnishee. 
GARNISHMENT. 
-Court, -Oounty. 
TH11l Su.TB oF W rsoossrs, To the said garnishee: 
Yon are hereby summoned, pursuant to the annexed affidavit, as garnishee
of the defendant, C. D., and required within twenty days after the service of
this summons upon you, exclusive of the day of service, to answer, according 
to law, whether you are indebted to or have in your possession or under your
control any property, real or personal, belonging to snob defendant, and to
serve a copy of your answer on the undersigned at--, in the county of--;
and in case of your failure so to do;ou will be liable to further proceedings,
aooording to law. Of which the sa.i defendant will also take notice, 
L. M., plaintiff's attorney. 
SEC. 2755. Such garnishee
summons and affidavit may be served bv the sheriff of the county where any
garnishee or defendant may be found orby any other person not a party to
the action. The service shall be made and the same returned, with proof of
the service, to the person whose name is subscribed thereto, with reasonable
diligence. The person subscribing such garnishee summons may, at his option,
by an indorsement thereon, fix a. time for the service thereof and the service
shall then be made accordingly. 
SEC. 2756. The garnishee
summons and annexed affidavit shall be served on each of the several gar­
nishees named in the manner provided in sections 2636 and 2637 for service
of a summons in an action; and, except where service of the summons in the
action is made without the state or by publication, also on the defendant to
the action, in like manner, either before, or within ten days after, service on a
garnishee. When the defendant shall have appeared in the action by an at­
torney such service may be made upon such attorney or upon the defendant.
Unless the garnishee summons be so served on the defendant or his attorney
or the proof of service on the garnishee show that, after due diligence, such
service cannot be made within the state, the service on the garnishee shall be­
come void and of no effect from the beginning. 
SEC. 2757. The plaintiff may, in like
manner, subsequently proceed, within the period limited, against other gar­
nishees or against the same garnishees, after they shall have once been dis­
charged, upon a new affidavit, if he shall have reason to believe they have
subsequently become liable; and he may summon garnishees resident in other
counties than that in which the action is pending; but if an issue for trial
shall be joined between the plaintiff and such garnishee the court may, on
motion, change the place of trial of such issue to the county of the garnishee's 
residence. 
SEC. 2759. Within twenty days
from the service of such garnishee summons the garnishee may, if the truth
warrant, file with the clerk of the court in which the action is pending and
serve a copy thereof upon the plaintiff, his affidavit in the following form, sub­ 
E. F., being first duly sworn, says that on the -- day of--, A. D. 18-, 
he was served with a garnishee summons in the above entitled action; that he
was then and is now in no manner and upon no account whatever indebted or
under liability to the defendant (naming him), and that he then had and now
has in his possession or under his control no real estate and no personal prop­
erty, effects or credits, of any description whatever, belonging to said defend- 
ant or in which he has any interest; and is in no manner liable as garnishee
in this action. 
Subscribed and sworn to before me this }
-- day of--, A. D. 18-. 
Thereby the proceeding against such garnishee shall be deemed discontinued
and the plaintiff shall pay the garnishee one dollar for his costs unless, within
twenty days thereafter, the plaintiff serve notice on such garnishee that he
elects to take issue on his answer to the garnishee summons and will maintain
him to be liable as garnishee. In which case the issue shall stand for trial as
a civil action, in which the affidavit on the part of the plaintiff shall be deemed
the complaint and the garnishee's affidavit the answer thereto. 
SEC. 2760. Unless the garnishee shall make the affidavit provided for in the
preceding section he shall, within twenty days from the service of the garnishee
summons, file and serve in like manner an affidavit in which he shall state: 
1. Whether he was at the time of the service of the garnishee summons or
has since become indebted or under any liability to the defendant named in
the garnishee summons, in any manner or upon any account, specifying, if in­
debted or liable, the amount, the interest thereon, the manner in which evi­
denced, when payable, whether an absolute or contingent liability, and all the 
facts and circumstances necessary to a complete understanding of such indebt­
edness or liability. When the garnishee shall be in doubt respecting any such 
Iiability or indebtedness he may set forth all the facts and circumstances con­
cerning the same, and submit the question to the court. 
2. Whether he held at the time aforesaid or now holds the title or posses­ 
sion of any real estate, or any interest in land of any description, or of anv 
personal property, effects or credits, or any instruments or papers relating to 
any such belonging ~o the defendant ~r in which he i~ in any wise interested.
And if he shall admit an.v such or be m doubt respecting the same he shall set
forth a description of such rroperty and all the facts and circumstances con­
cerning the same, and the title, interest or claim of the defendant in or to the 
same.
3. If he shall claim any set-off or defense to any indebtedness or liability 
or any lien or claim to such property he shall set forth the facts and circum­
stances thereof fully. 
4. He may state any claim of exemption from execution on the part of the
defendant or other objection, known to him, against tho right of the plaintiff
to apply upon his demand the indebtedness or property disclosed. 
5. If he shall disclose any indebtedness or the possession of any property to 
which the defendant, and any other pe~on as well, make claim he mav set
forth the names and residences of such other claimants and, so far as known,
the nature of their claims. 
SEC. 2761. It
any garnishee, having been dulv summoned, shall fail to serve his affidavit as
required in the preceding secfions the court may render judgment against 
him for the amount of the judgment which the plaintiff shall recover against
the defendant in the action for damages and oosts, together with the costs of
suoh garnishee action. Such garnishee may also be proceeded against as for 
a contempt according to the provisions of chapter 150. 
SEC. 2762. In case the an
swer of the garnishee shall show a present indebtedness to the defendant he 
shall pay the same or so much thereof as may be sufficient to cover the claim
of the plaintiff, as stated in the affidavit, with interest and costs, to the clerk
of the court at the time of serving his answer, less three dollars for the gar
nishee's costs, and the clerk shall give him a receipt, specifying the facts, and
it shall be a complete discharge of all liability to any party for the amount so
paid. In case the indebtedness disclosed in the garnishee's answer is to be·
come due at a future time the garnishee shall pay the amount as aforesaid to
the clerk, when due, with like effect, and in default of such payment, in either
case, the plaintiff shall be entitled to judgment against the garnishee for the
amount disclosed, when due, either before or after judgment has been ren­
dered in the original action and may proceed to collect the same by execution;
but in case no judgment has been rendered in the principal action .the execu­
tion, by an indorsement made thereon, shall require the sheriff to pay the
money collected into court to abide the event of the principal action. Moneys
paid into court under this section shall be paid to the plaintiff in the principal
action when final judgment shall be rendered therein in his favor, and to the
extent of satisfying the same, upon order of the court. In case judgment shall
be rendered against the plaintiff such moneys shall be paid to the defendant. 
If the answer disclose credits or other property, real or personal, in the ros­
session or under the control of the garnishee the officer having a writ o at­
tachment or an execution may levy upon the interest of the defendant in the
same; otherwise the garnishee' shall hold the same until the order of the court
thereon. 
SEC. 2763. 
The answer of the garnishee shall in all cases be conclusive of the truth of the
facts therein stated unless the plaintiff shall, within twenty days, serve upon
the garnishee a notice in writing that he eleots to take issue on his answer, in
which case the issue shall stand for trial as a civil action in which the affidavit 
. on the part of the plaintiff shall be deemed the complaint and the garnishee's
affidavit the answer thereto. The plaintiff may in all cases move the court,
upon the answer of the garnishee, and of the defendant, if he shall also an­
swer, for such judgment as he shall be entitled to thereon, but any such judg­
ment shall be no bar beyond the faots stated in such answers. 
SEC. 2764. The answer of a corporation
summoned as a garnishee may be made by any officer thereof; and of any other
garnishee, by any agent or attorney in his behalf who shall be acquainted with 
the facts. 
SEC. 2765. The defendant may, in all cases,
by answer duly verified, to be served within twenty days from the service of
the garnishee summons on him, defend the proceedmgs against any garnishee 
· upon the ground that the indebtedness of the garnishee or any property held
bv him is exempt from execution against such defendant or for any other rea­ 
son is not liable to garnishment; or upon any ground uron which a garnishee
might defend the same; and may participate in the tria of any issue between 
the plaintiff and garnishee for the protection of his interests. And the gar- 
nishee may, at his option, defend the principal action for the defendant, if the
latter does not, but shall be under no obligation so to do. 
SEC. 2766. The proceeding against a garnishee shall be deemed an action by the
plaintiff against the garnishee and defendant as parties defendant, and all the
provisions of law relating to proceedings in civil actions at issue, including
examination of the parties, amendments and relief from default or proceedings
taken, and appeals and all provisions for enforcing judgments shall be appli­
cable thereto; but when the garnishment is not in aid of an execution no trial
shall be had of the garnishee action until thellaintiff shall have judgment in
the principal action, although it may be notice for trial; and if the defendant
have judgment the garnishee action shall be dismissed with costs. The court
shall render such judgment in all cases as shall be just to all the parties, and
properly protect their respective interests, and may adjudge the recovery of
any indebtedness, the conveyance, transfer or delivery to the sheriff or any offi­
cer appointed by the judgment of any real estate or personal property dis­
closed or found to be liable to be applied to the plaintiff's demand; or by the
judgment pass the title thereto; and may therein or by its order, when proper,
direct the manner of making sale and of disposing of the proceeds thereof, or
of any money or other thing paid over or delivered to the clerk or officer.
The judgment against a garnishee shall acquit and discharge him from all de­
mands by the defendant or his representatives for all money, goods, effects or
credits paid, delivered or accounted for by the garnishee, by force of such
judgment. 
SEC.  2767. When the· answer of the garnishee shall dis­
close that any other person than the· defendant claims the indebtedness or 
property in his hands and the name and residence of such claimant the court
may, on motion, order that such claimant be interpleaded as a defendant to
the garnishee action; and that notice thereof, setting forth the facts, with a
copy of such order in such form as the court shall direct, be served upon him,
and that after such service shall have been made the garnishee may pay or
deliver to the officer or the clerk such indebtedness or property and have
a receipt therefor, which shall be a complete discharge from all liability to any
party for the amount so paid or property so delivered. Such notice shall be
served in the manner required for service of a summons in a civil action and
may be made without the state or by' publication thereof, if the order shall so
direct. Upon such service being made such claimant shall be deemed a de­
fendant to the garnishee action, and within twenty days shall answer setting
forth his claim or any defense which the garnishee might have made. In
case of default, judgment may be rendered which shall conclude any claim upon
the part of such defendant. 
SEC. 27G8. From the time of the service of
the summons upon the garnishee he shall stand liable to the plaintiff to the
amount of the property, moneys, credits and ef_f ects in his pos~cssion or under
his control belonging to the defendant or m which he shall be interested to the 
extent of his right or interest therein, and of all debts due or to become due 
to the defendant, except such as may be by law exempt from execution. Any
property, moneys, credits and effects held by a conveyance or title void as to
the creditors of the defendant shall be embraced in such liability. In case such
moneys, credits and effects in the possession or under the control of the gar­
nishee shall exceed the amount of the plaintiff's claim the garnishee shall stand
liable to the plaintiff only for the amount of the plaintiff's claim as disclosed
by his affidavit, provided for in section 2753, together with such further amount
as shall be equal to all costs and damages which the plaintiff may recover in
the action and garnishee proceedings .. 
SEC. 2769. No judgment shall be
rendered upon a liability of the garnishee arising either: 
1. By reason of his having drawn, accepted, made, indorsed or guarantied
any negotiable bill, draft, note or other security. 
2. By reason of any money or other thing received or collected by him as
sheriff or other officer by force of an execution or other legal process in favor
of the defendant. 
8. By reason of any money in hie hands as a public officer and for which he
is accountable to the defendant merely as such officer. 
4. By reason of any money or other thing owin~ from him to the defend­
ant unless, before judgment against the defendant, 1t shall' have become due
absolutely and without depending on any future contingency. A debt owing
by the owner of a building or other property subject to a mechanic's lien, pur­
suant to section 8314, shall not be deemed absolutely due until the claims of
subcontractors and employees under section 3315 shall have matured by notice
or expired by lapse of time. Except as above provided judgment may be given
for any money or other thinfic, owmg, although it has not become payable, in
which case the garnishee sha not be required to pay or deliver it before the
time appointed by the contract . 
SEC. 2770. No action shall 
be commenced by the defendant or his assignee against a. garnishee upon any 
claim or demand liable to garnishment or to recover any property garnished, 
or execution be issued upon a judgment in favor of defendant against such
garnishee, subsequent to the service of the garnishee summons upon him, until
the termination of the garnishee action; and if an action shall have been com­
menced or an execution issued it shall be stayed by the court or a judge thereof
upon the garnishee's application; except that upon cause shown the court or
a judge may by order permit the commencement of such an aotion, or the issue
of an execution, or the further prosecution of one stayed. 
SEC. 2771. The defendant
ma.y at any time after the commencement of the action and before judgment
file with the clerk of the court an undertaking, executed by at least two sure­
ties, resident freeholders of the state, to the effect that they will on demand
pay to the plaintiff the amount of the judgment, with all costs that may be re­ 
covered against such defendant in the action, not exceeding a sum specified,
which sum shall not be less than double the amount of the indebtedness speci­
fied in the affidavit of garnishment or in snob less sum as the court shall, upon
application, direct. Tfie sureties shall justify their responsibility by affidavit
annexed, stating a sum which eaoh is worth in property within this state, over
and above all his debts and liabilities and property exempt from execution,
the aggregate of which sums shall be double the amount specified in the under­
taking. The defendant shall serve a copy of such undertaking, with a. notice
where and when the same was filed, on the plaintiff. Within three days after
the receipt thereof the plaintiff shall give notice to the defendant that he ao­
cepts [excepts] to the sufficiency of the sureties, or he shall be deemed to have
waived all objections to them. When the plaintiff accepts [excepts] the sure­
ties shall justify in like manner as bail upon arrest, and the provisions of sec­
tions 2704, 2705 and 2706 shall be applicable thereto. Thereafter all the
garnishees shall be discharged and the garnishment proceedings shall be deemed
discontinued, and any money or property paid or delivered to any officer shall
be surrendered to the person entitled thereto, and the costs shall be taxable as
disbursements of the plaintiff in the action if he recovers. 
SEC. 2772. In case of the trial of an issue between the plaintiff
and any garnishee costs shall be awarded to the plaintiff and against the gar­
nishee, in addition to his liability, if the plaintiff recover more than the garnishee
admitted by his answer; and if he do not, the garnishee shall recover costs of 
the plaintiff. In all other cases under this chapter, not expressly provided for,
the court may award costs in favor of or agamst anv party in its discretion.
When there 1s no issue for trial and any liability on the part of the garnishee
is disclosed the costs of the garnishment proceedings shall be taxed for the
plaintiff, if he recovers, as disbursements in the principal action.
SEC. 9773. The writ of injunc­
tion is abolished. The injunction provided by law is a command to refrain
from a particular act. It may be the final judgment in the action or may be
allowed as a provisional remedy; and when so allowed it shall be by order in
ihe form prescribed by this chapter. The order may be made by the court in
which the action is brought or by a judge, in the cases provided in this chap­
ter; and when made may be enforced as the order of the court. 
SEC. 2774. Where it shall appear by the com­
plaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the judgment demanded and such judg­
ment, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance
of some act the commission or continuance of which, during the litigation, would
produce injury to the plaintiff; or when, during the litigation, it shall appear
that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or
suffering some act to be done in violation of the plaintiff's rights respecting the
subject of the action and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a tempo­
rary injunction may be granted to restrain such act. And when, during the
pendency of an action, it shall appear by affidavit that the defendant threatens
or is about to remove or dispose of bis property with intent to defraud his
creditors a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such removal or
disposition. 
SEC. 2775. A temporary injunction may 
also be granted on the application of the defendant, when it shall appear that
the plaintiff is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering 
to be done some act in violation of the defendant's rights respecting the subject
of the action and tending to his injury or to render ineffectual such judgment
as may be rendered in his favor. 
SEC. 2776. The injunction
may be granted at the time of the issuing of the summons in the action or at
any time afterward, before judgment, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the
court or judge, by the complaint or answer duly verified or by the affidavit of
the. party or any other person, that sufficient grounds exist therefor. A copy
of the pleading or affidavit on which granted must be served with the injunc­
tion unless previously served. In case of exigency an injunction may be
granted, and by direction of the court or judge may be served on Sunday or
on a legal holiday. 
SEC. 2777. An injunction shall not be allowed after
the defendant shall have answered, unless upon notice or upon an order to 
show cause; but in such case the defendant may be restrained until the decis­
ion of the oourt or judge granting or refusing the injunotion.
SEC. 2778. ·where no provision is
made by statute as to security npon an injunction the oonrt or judge shall re­
quire a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with or without sure­ 
ties, to the etf eot that the plaintiff will pay to the parties enjoined such
damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, as he may sustain by reason
of the injunction, if the court shall finally decide that the plaintiff was not en­ titled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a reference or otherwise
as the court shall direct. The undertaking shall be attached to the affidavit
or other pleading upon which it was granted and copies of such undertaking,
affidavit or other plea.ding shall be served upon the defendant, and the officer
servin~ the same shall, within :fifteen days after such service, :file the same in
the office of the clerk of the court from which it issued
SEC. 2779. If the court or judge deem it
proper that the defendant or any of several defendants should be heard before
granting the injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be shown at
a specified time and place why the injunction should not be granted, and the
defendant may in the meantime be restrained. 
SEC. 2780. An injunction to sus­
pend the general and ordinary business of a corporation shall not be granted 
except by the court or presiding judge thereof; nor shall it be granted with­
out due notice of the application therefor to the proper officers of the corpora­
tion except where the state is a party to the proceedings, unless the plamtiff
give a written undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties, to be approved
by the court or judge, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay all damages, not
exceeding the sum to be mentioned in the undertaking, which such corporation
may sustain by reason of the injunction if the court shall finally decide that
the plaintiff was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a.
reference or otherwise as the court shall direct. 
SEC. 2781. If the injunction be granted
bv a judge without notice the other party, at any time before trial, may apply, 
upon notice, to the court, or to the presiding judge thereof, in which the ac­
tion is brought to vacate or modify the same. The application may be made
upon the papers on which theinjunction was granted or upon proofs by affi­
davits or otherwise on the part of the moving party. Ifthe application be
upon such proofs, but not otherwise, the opposite party may oppose the same
by like proofs, in addition to those on which 'the injunction was granted. But
an answer, duly verified, shall be given only the effect of an affidavit in deter­
mining the right to an injunction. No injunction shall be dissolved except by
the court or presiding judge thereof. 
SEC. 2782. The party enjoined may, upon no­
tice, apply for additional security upon an injunction granted or may combine
such application with one to vacate or modify the same, and the presiding
judge may require a further undertaking, in a sum and with sureties to be ap­
proved by him, as a condition of the continuance of the injunction. 
SEC.  2783. No injunction shall be granted - 
to restrain the operation or management of any ferry on either the Wisconsin,
Saint Croix, Chippewa or Mississippi rivers except by the circuit court, or a
circuit judge, or a judge of the supreme court and upon ten days' notice of
application therefor. 
SEC. 2784. The court or a judge may grant the writ
of ne exeat to prevent any person from going out of the state until he shall
sive security. The writ may be granted at the time of issuing the summons 
In the action or at any time afterward before judgment. 
SEC. 2785. No writ of ne exeat shall be granted un­
less it satisfactorily appears to the court or judge by the affidavit of the plaint­
iff or some indifferent witness that sufficient grounds exist therefor; and the
court or judge granting such writ shall direct to be indorsed thereon the pen­
alty of the bond and security to be given by the defendant. 
SEC. 2786. If the defendant shall, by answer or other­
wise, satisfy the court or judge granting such writ of ne exeat that there is no
reason for his restraint or shall gfre security for the performance of whatever
judgment may be made in the premises the writ may be discharged. 
SEC. 2787. A receiver may be appointed:
1. Before judgment, on the application of either party, when he establishes 
an apparent right to or interest in property which 1s the subject of the action
and which is in the possession of an adverse party, and the property or its rents
and proflts are in danger of being lost or materially impaired. 
2. By the judgment, or after judgment, to carry the judgment into effect or
to dispose of the property according to the judgment. 
3. After judgment, to preserve the property during the pendency of an ap­
peal; or when an execution bas been returned unsatisfied and the judgment
debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of the judgment or in an
action by a creditor under section 3029. . 
4. In cases provided by any statute when a corporation has been dissolved
or is insolvent or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its eorpo­
rate rights. 
5. In such cases as are now provided by law or ma.v be in accordance with
the existing practice except as otherwise provided in this chapter. 
SEC.  2787a. When­
ever a receiver shall be appointed by any court to manage, conduct, settle, ad­ 
just or close up any mercantile, manufacturing or other business such receiver 
shall immediately report to the court the amount due the employees and labor­ 
ers in suoh business; and said court shall order its receiver to pay out of the
first receipts of said business, after the payment of costs, debts due the United
States or this state, taxes and assessments and the current expenses of carrying
on or closing said business, the wages of such employees and laborers which ac­ 
erued within three months immediately prior to his appointment. 
SEC. 2788. 
Parties to a question in difference, which might be the subject of a civil ac­
tion, may, without action, agree upon a case containing the faots upon whioh
the controversy depends and present a submission of the same to any court 
. which wonld have jurisdiction if an action had been brought. But it must
appear by affidavit that the controversy is real and the proceedings in good
faith to determine the rights of the parties. The court shall, thereupon, bear
and determine the case at a general or special term and render Judgment
thereon as if an action wero pending. Judgment shall be entered in the judg­
ment book, as in other cases, but without costs 'for any proceeding prior to
the notice of trial. The case, the submission and a copy of the judgment shall
constitute the judgment roll. The judgment may be enforced in the same
manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be subject to appeal 
in like manner. 
SEC. 2789. The defendant may, in
any action, a.t any time before the trial, serve upon the plaintiff an offer, in
writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum, or property,
or to the effect'therein specified, with costs. If the plaintiff accepts the offer
and give notice thereof in writing, before trial, within ten days, he may file
the summons, complaint and offer, with an affidavit of service of the notice of
acceptance, and tl:ie clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly. If 
notice of acceptance be not given the offer is deemed to be withdrawn and
cannot be given as evidence nor mentioned on the trial, and if the plaintiff fail
to obtain a more favorable judgment he cannot recover costs, but must pay
defendant's costs from the time of the offer. 
SEC. 2790. In an ac­
tion arising on contract the defendant may, with his answer, serve upon the
plaintiff an offer in writing that if he fail in his defense the damages be as­
sessed at a specified sum, and if the plaintiff signify his acceptance thereof in
writing, with or before the notice of trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the
damages shall be assessed accordingly. 
SEC. 2791. If the plaintiff do
not accept the offer he shall prove bis damages as if it bad not been made and 
shall not be permitted to give it in evidence, and if the damazes assessed in
his favor shall not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer the defendant shall
recover his expenses incurred in consequence of any necessary preparations .or
defense in respect to the question of damages; such expenses shall be ascer­
tained at the trial. 
SEC. 2792. When two or more actions
are pending in the same court, which might have been joined, the court or a
judge, on motion, shall, if no sufficient cause be shown to the contrary, eon­ 
solidate them into one by order.
SEC. 2793. When it is admitted by the pleading
or examination of a party that he has in his possession or under his contrcl
any money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the
litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party or which belongs or is
due to another party the· court may order the same to be deposited in court 
or delivered to such party with or without security, subject to the further
direction of the court.
SEC. 2794. Whenever, in
the exercise of its authority, a court shall have ordered the deposit, delivery 
or conveyance of money or other property and the order is disobeyed, the
court, besides punishing the disobedience as for contempt, may make an order
requiring the sheriff to take the money or property and deliver, deposit or
con"rey it in conformity with the direction of the court, or the court may pass title to real estate by its judgment, without conveyance. 
SEC. 2795. When a. judg­
ment shall be recovered against one or more of several persons jointly indebted
upon a contract, by proceeding as provided in section 2884, those who were
not originally summoned to answer the complaint may be summoned to show
cause why they should not be bound by the judgment in the same manner as
if they had been originally summoned. The summons shall be subscribed by 
the judgment creditor, his representatives or attorney, shall describe the judg­
ment and require the person summoned to show cause, within twenty davs
after the service of the summons, and shall be served in like manner as the
original summons. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the
person subscribing it that the judgment has not been satisfied to his knowl­
edge or information and belief, and specifying the amount due thereon. 
SEC. 2796. The party summoned may answer
within the time specified and mav make any defense which be might have
originally made to the action, ancf may deny the judgment or make any de­
fense which may have arisen subsequently. 
SEC. 2797. The party issuing the summons may
demur or reply to the answer and the party summoned may demur to the
reply, and the issues may be tried and judgment may be given in the same
manner as in an action and enforced by execution or the application of the
property charged to the payment of the judgment be compelled by attach·
ment, if necessary. 
SEC. 2798. The answer and reply shall be
verified in the like cases and manner and be subject to the same rules as the­ 
answer and reply in an action. 
SEC. 2799. When judgment shall
have been entered in an action against any defendant upon whom service was
attempted under an order for publication of the summons, but whereby [uris­
diction was not acquired, such defendant may be summoned to show cause
why he should not be bound by the judgment in the same manner as if he had
been originally summoned. The summons shall be like that provided in sec.
tion 2795, with a like accompanying affidavit when the judgment is for a sum
of money. It may be served in any manner as an original summons might be,
~roceedmgs thereon shall be had as prescri~ed in the three last preceding sec­
tions, and Judgment upon default or otherwise be entered, a.s the nature of the 
case demands. 
SEC. 2801. In case of a
transfer of interest or devolution of liability the action may be continued by
or against the original party, or the court mav direct the person to whom the
interest is transferred or upon whom the liability is devolved to be substituted
in the action or joined with the original party, as the case requires. 
SEC. 2802. When
an action or special proceeding is lawfully brought by or in the name of a pub.
lie officer or by a receiver or by any trustee appointed by virtue of any stat­ 
ute his death or removal shall not abate the same, but it may be continued by
his successor, who may be substituted therefor by order of the court or a judge. 
SEC. 2803. In case of the death or other disability of
a party, if the cause of action survives or continues, the court, on motion, at any
time within one year thereafter or afterwards, on a supplemental complaint,
n:iay allow or compel. the action to be continued by or against his representa­
tives or successor m mterest. 
SEC. 2804. 
Where there are several plaintiffs or defendants in any action, if any of them.
shall die and the cause of action survives to or against the others the action
may proceed, without interruption, in favor of or against the survivors. If all
the plaintiffs or defendants shall die before judgment the action may be prose­
cuted or defended by the executor or administrator of the last surviving plaintiff
or defendant, as the case may be. But the estate of a party jointly liable upon
contract with others shall not be discharged by his death, and the court may, 
by order, bring in the proper representative of the deceased defendant, when
it is necessary so to do, for the proper disposition of the matter; and where
the liability is several as well as joint may order a severance of the action so· 
hat it may proceed separately against the representative of the decedent and
against the surviving defendants. 
SEC. 2805. In case of the death of any of several plaintiffs or 
defendants, if part only of the cause of action or part or some of two or more
distinct causes of action survives to or against the others the action may pro­
ceed without bringing in the successor to the rights or liabilities of the deceased
party, and the judgment shall not affect him or his interest in the subject of 
the action. But when it appears proper the court may require or compel the
successor or a person who claims to be the successor to be brought in as a
party upon his own application or that of any party to the action. 
SEC. 2806. In all 
actions for the recovery of real property if the plaintiff or any of several
plaintiffs shall die before final judgment his heir or his executor or adminis­
trator, for the benefit of the heir or creditors, may, within such time as the
court shall allow, be admitted to prosecute the action in his stead with the
same effect as if the action had been so originally commenced. 
SEC. 2807. If the interest of the deceased party passes to the
surviving plaintiffs, or if there be no motion for the admission of another per­
son as heir, executor or administrator within the time allowed by the court
for that purpose, the surviving plaintiffs may prosecute the action for so much
of the premises in question as may be claimed by them. 
SEC. 2808. When there are sev­
eral defendants in any action for the recovery of real property and any of
them shall die before final judgment the action may be prosecuted against the
surviving defendants for so much of the premises as they shall hold or claim. 
SEC. 2809. After an accepted offer to allow judg­
ment to be taken, or after a verdict, report of a referee or finding by the court
in any action the action does not abate by the death of any party, but shall
be further proceeded with in the same manner as if the cause of action sur­ 
vived by law; or the court may enter judgment in the names of the original 
parties if such offer, verdict, report or finding be not set aside. But a verdict,
report or finding rendered against a. party after his death is void. 
SEC. SEOTioN 2810. Whenever any person
shall be entitled to revive or continue any action or proceeding interrupted by
the occurrence of death, removal from a trust or other disability he may make
and file with the clerk a supplemental complaint, affidavit or petition, as the
action or proceeding may be, and thereupon a notice to the other party or his
proper representative of the time and place of such filing, and that unless he
shows cause, if any he have, by answer or affidavit withm twenty days after
service of such notice on him, exclusive of the day of service, why such action
or proceeding should not be revived or continued, the same will stand revived
or continued according to such supplemental complaint, petition or affidavit.
Such notice shall be subscribed by the party or his attorney and .be served in
the same manner aa a summons, and service thereof without the state or by
publication may be ordered in the same cases and in like manner. Upon fil­ 
rng such notice with proof of service and that no answer or.aflidavit has been
received the court or a judge shall make an order that the action or proceed­
ing stand revived or continued accordingly. An answer or affidavit showing
cause against such revivor or continuance may be served on the party subsorib­ 
ing such notice within the time specified as a pleading is served; and there­
upon the court shall make such order as the circumstances may require. 
SEC. 2811. At any time after the
death of the plaintiff or after the plaintiff's marriage, where it affects the rights
of either party, the court may, in its discretion, upon notice to such persons as 
it shall direct and on the application of the adverse party or of a person whose
interest is affected, make an order that the action be dismissed unless continued
by the proper parties within a time to l-e therein specified, not less than three
months after the making thereof; and unless so continued within such time
the same shall stand dismissed thereby without further order. 
SEC. 281la. The circuit courts and the superior
courts may dismiss, upon their own or upon the motion of either party and
with or without notice, any and all actions or proceedings pending therein in
which issue shall have been joined and which shall not be brought to trial
within five years from and after the commencement of such action or pro­ 
ceeding. 
SEC. 2812. Every direction of & court or judge made or
entered in writing and not included in & judgment is denominated an order. 
SEC. 2813. An application for an order is a motion. Motions in actions
or proceedings in the circuit court must be made within the circuit where the
action is triable; in other courts, within their territorial jurisdiction. Orders
out of court, without notice, may be made by the presiding judge of the oourt
in any part of the state; and they may also be made by a county judge or
court commissioner of the county where the action is triable. No order to 
stay proceedings after a. verdict, report or finding in any circuit court shall be
made by a county judge or court commissioner, or in any county court by a.
court commissioner. · No stay of proceedings for a. longer time than twenty
days shall be granted by a judge out of court except upon previous notice to
the adverse party. 
SEC. 2814. An order made out
of court, without notice, may be vacated or modified without notice by the
judge who made it; or upon motion, after notice, by such judge or by the 
court, but not otherwise. No order made upon notice shall be vacated or
modified but by the court, except as otherwise expressly provided. No judge,
out of court, shall stay the execution or effect of any order previously made
in the action or proceeding by any other judge, except that the presiding judge
may suspend in whole or in part the execution or effect of any order during
the pendenoy of a. motion to the court to vacate or modify the same. 
SEC. 2815. Where these statutes
authorize an order or proceeding to be made or taken by the court it must be
done by the court in session; where they authorize an order or proceeding to
be made or taken by the presiding judge or the circuit judge, using such words
of designation, no county judge or court oommissioner can act. Except as so
provided or otherwise expressly directed in particular instances such judge or
commissioner may exercise within his county the powers and shall be subject 
to the restrictions thereon of a. circuit judge at chambers, according to exist­
ing practice and these statutes, in all actions or proceedings in courts of record,
but all such orders may be reviewed by the court. No county judge or court
commissioner shall have power to vacate or set aside any judgment of a cir­
cuit court. 
SEC. 2816. Where a 
motion, whether on notice or order to show cause, is made to be heard before
the court or the presiding judge thereof in an action in which such judge ha.s
been of counsel for either party or is interested the motion may be transferred
by his order, on the request of either party or his own motion, to some other
circuit court or to a court having concurrent jurisdiction of the subject of the
action, to be designated by him, or it may be so transferred by the written
stipulation of the parties. The court so designated shall hear and decide the
motion and make the proper orders for the determination thereof and carry­
ing the same into execution, which shall be entered in the clerk's office of the
oountv where the action is pending and have the same effect as if made by the
court "from which it was transferred. 
SEC. 2817. When a notice of motion is
necessary, unless the time be fixed by statute or the rules of court, it must be
served eight days before the time appointed for the hearing; but the court or
judge may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a shorter time. 
SEC. 2818. Notices shall be in writing. Notices, pleadings
and other papers in any action or proceeding may be served as provided m
this chapter, where not otherwise provided by law. It shall not be necessary, 
in anv action or proceeding, upon any motion to serve copies of such papers,
on which it is founded, as shall have been previously filed or served in the 
same action or prooeeding. 
SEC. 2819. No copy of any
notice, process, pleading or paper made by letter-press imprint upon thin or
tissue paper shall be certified or served in any action or 
officer, party or attorney; and the service of any such shal be void.
SEC. 2820. The service may be personal by de.
liYery of a copy of the paper to be served to the party or attorney on whom
the service is to be made. Service mav also be made as follows: 
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made. during his absence from his office
by leaving such copy with his clerk therein or with a person having charge
thereof; or, when there is no person in the office, by leaving it, between the
hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a conspicuous place in
the office; or, if it be not open so as to admit of such service, then by leav­
ing it at the attorney's residence with some person of suitable age and discre­
tion. If admission to the office cannot be obtained and there is no person in
the attorney's residence upon whom service can be made, it may be made by
sending a copy to his postoffice address in a sealed and postpaid wrapper, de­
posited in the postoffice of the party or attorney serving it and directed to the
person to be served at the address within the state designated by him as his
address upon the preceding papers in the action; or where he bas not made
such a designation, at bis pFace of residence or the place where he keeps an
office, according to the best information which can conveniently be obtained
concerning the same. 
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the copy at his residence be­
tween the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, with some per­ 
son of suitable age and discretion.
SEC. 2821. Service by mail may be made where the
person making the service and the person on whom it is to be made reside in
different places between which there is a. regular communication by mail.
The copy of the paper to be served must be properly inclosed in a post-paid
wrapper and addressed to the person on w horn it is to be served at his proper
postoffice address, without any direction to the postal officers upon the wrap­
per for the return thereof in case of non-delivery to the person addressed, and
must be deposited in the postoffice and left there to be carried. 
SEC. 2822. Where a certain time before an act to be done is re­
quired for the service of any paper and where, after service of any paper, a
specified time is allowed a party to do an act in answer to or in consequence
of such service, if service be made by mail, the time shall be double the time
required or allowed in case of personal service. 
SEC. 2823.
When a party to an action or proceeding shall have appeared by an attorney
the service of papers shall be made upon the attorney. When a defendant
shall not have appeared in person or by attorney service of notice or papers
in the ordinary proceedings m an action need not be made upon him unless he
be imprisoned for want of bail. 
SEC. 2824. Where a plaintiff or a de­
fendant who has appeared in person and not by attorney resides out of the
state service may be made by mail; if his residence be not known and he has
designated no place for service of papers on him in the action service may be
made on the clerk of the court for the party. 
SEC. 2825. The provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to the service of a summons or other process, or of any paper to bring
a party mto contempt. 
SEC.  2826. When­
ever, pursuant to these statutes, the sheriff may be required to serve or execute
any summons, order or judgment, or to do any other act, he shall be bound to
do so in like manner as upon process issued to him, and shall be equally liable
in all respects for neglect of duty; and if the sheriff be a. party the coroner
shall be bound to perform the service as he is now bound to execute process
when the sheriff is a party, and all the provisions of these statutes relating to 
sheriffs shall apply to coroners where the sheriff is a. party. 
SEC. 2827.
When service of a notice or paper in an action or proceeding is authorized to
be made by the sheriff bis certificate of service shall be evidence thereof. Proof
of service of notices and papers where no special mode of proof is provided may
be made as provided by section 4173a. 
SEC. SEcTioN 2828. AH affidavits and papers used on any
motion shal1 be filed with the clerk of the court or with the judge by whom
the motion is beard, and the judge shall, after decision thereof, tile all such
papers with the clerk. All undertakings given in actions or proceedings must 
be filed with the clerk unless otherwise directed by these statutes or the court
expressly provides for a. different disposition thereof. 
SEC. 2829. The court shall, in every stage of an
action, disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which
shall not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no Judgment
shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect. 
SEC. 2830. The court may, upon the
trial or at any other stage of the action, before or after judgment, in further.
ance of justice and upon such terms as may be just, amend any process, plead­
ing or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by
correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect,
or by inserting other allegations material to the case, or, when the amendment
does not change substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the pleading
or proceeding to the facts proved. When any case in which the state is plaint­ 
iff is appealed from any justice's court, or police or municipal court having juris­
diction similar to that of a justice's court, to any court of record, such court
may forthwith allow amendments in case of variance between the complaint
and the proofs in the name or description of the person, place. premises, writ­
ing, record or ownership of the property described in the complaint, and in all
other cases where the variance between the complaint and proof are not mate­
rial to the merits of the case; and upon allowing such amendments may direct
such amendment of other parts of the complaint as may thereby be rendered
necessary, and may, in its discretion, proceed with or postpone the trial.
SEC. 2831. The time within which any pro­
ceeding in an action after its commencement, except the time within which an
appeal must be taken, may, before its expiration, be enlarged, upon an affidavit
showing grounds therefor, by the court or a judge. The affidavit or a copy
thereof must be served with a copy of the order, or the order may be disre­
garded. Except as aforesaid, and as otherwise specially prescribed by law,
the court or a Judge may also, on motion and good cause shown, in discretion
and upon such terms as may be just, allow any such proceeding to be taken
after the time limited by or in pursuance of the statute or by any order of court 
has expired. 
SEC. 2832. The court or a judge
may likewise, in discretion and upon such terms as may be just, at any time
within one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order,
stipulation or other proceeding against him, through his mistake, inadvertence,
surprise or excusable neglect and may supply an omission in any proceedings;
and whenever any llroceeding taken by a party fails to conform, in any re­
spect, to the provisions of law the court may, m like manner and upon like
terms, permit an amendment of such proceeding so as to make it conformable
thereto. 
SEC. 2833. When service
of the summons shall 'bave been made by publication, if the summons shall
not have been personally served on a defendant nor received by such defend­ 
ant through the postoffice, he or his representative shall, on application and
good cause shown, at any time before final judgment, be allowed to defend
the action; and, except in an action for divorce or annulment of the marriage
contract, the defendant or his representative shall in like manner, upon good
cause shown and such terms as shall be just, be allowed to defend after final
judgment at any time within one year after actual notice.thereof and within
three years after its rendition. If the defense be successful and the judgment
or any part thereof shall have been collected or otherwise enforced such res­
titution may thereupon be compelled as the court shall direct; but the title
to property, sold under such judgment to a purchaser in good faith, shall not 
thereby be affected. 
SEC. SECTION 2834. In every action the summons
or the summons and complaint may be amended of course, without costs, and
without prejudice to the proceedings already had by adding other persons as
parties defendant and ma.king the proper allegations for such purpose. Serv­
ice of the amended summons, together with the complaint or a notice of the
object of the action, may be made upon such new defendants as f rescribed in chapter 120. No further service shall be necessary on the origina defendants,
but the action shall proceed in the same manner as if the new parties had been
originally joined. 
SEC. 2885. If any original paper
or pleading be lost or withheld by any person the court may authorize a oopy
thereof to be filed and used instead of the original.
SEC. 2836. It shall not be neces­
sary to entitle an affidavit in the action; but an affidavit made without a title
or with a defective title shall be as valid and effectual for every purpose as if
it were duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to the action or proceeding in which 
it is made. 
SEC. 2837. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a
fact or conclusion of law is maintained by one party and controverted by the
other; they are of two kinds: 
1. Of la.w.
2. Of fact. 
SEC. 2838. An issue of law arises upon a. demurrer to 
the complaint, answer or reply or to some part thereof. 
SEC. 2839. An issue of fact arises: 
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the an­
swer; or 
2. Upon a. material allegation of any counter-claim in the answer, contro­
verted by the reply; or 
3. Upon a material allegation of new matter in the answer, not requiring a
reply, unless an issue of law is joined thereon; or 
4. Upon a material allegation of new matter in the reply, unless an issue of
law is joined thereon. 
SEC.  2840. Issues both of law and of
fact may arise upon different parts of the pleading in the same action; in such 
cases the issue of law must be first tried unless the court otherwise direct.
In no case shall it be necessarv to notice issues of law for trial, but the same
may be heard and determined by the court in which the action is pending at
any general or special term thereof, on eight days' notice, without being placed
on the calendar. 
SEC. 2841. Feigned issues have been
abolished, and instead thereof, in the case where the power formerly existed
to order a feizned issue or when a question of fact not put in issue by tho
pleadings is to be tried by a jury, an order for trial may be made, stating dis­
tinctly and plainly the question of fact to be tried, and such order shall be the
only authority necessary for a trial. 
SEC. 2842. A trial is the judicial examination of the
issues between the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact. 
SEC. 2843. An issue of law is triable by the
court. An issue of fact in an action for the recovery of money only, or of
specific real or personal property, or for a divorce on the ground of adultery 
must be tried by a jury except as otherwise provided in this chapter and ex­
cept that all issues arising on equitable defenses or counter-claims are triable
by the court. Every other issue must be tried by the court, which, however,
may order the whole issue or any specific question of fact involved therein to
be tried by a jury; or may refer an issue as hereinafter provided. 
SEC. 2844. When in any action there
shall arise issues triable by a jury and other issues triable bv the court the
court shall, in its discretion, direct the trial of the one or the other to be first
had, according to the nature of the issues and the interests of justice, and judg- 
ment shall be given uy>on both the verdict and the finding of the court, when
both shall be found. But no issue need be tried, the disposition of which is
not necessary to enable the court to render the appropriate judgment. A sep­
arate trial between the plaintiff and any of the several defendants may be 
allowed by the court whenever in its opinion justice will be thereby promoted. 
SEC. 2845. Notice of trial of anv civil
action, including all actions pending on appeal at any term of court at which
the same is triable, may be given after issue joined therein by either party to
the other at least ten days before such term, excluding the day on which no­
tice is given, but including the first day of the term in computation. After
notice by either party a. note of issue, containing the title of the cause, the
names of the attorneys respectively, the time when issue was joined, and
briefly stating whether the issue be an issue of law or of fact, and if the latter,
whether triable by the court or by jury, may be filed by either party at least
eight days before the term and the clerk shall thereupon place the action on
the calendar; or if such note of issue be not filed the court may in its discre­
tion direct the action when so noticed for trial to be placed on the calendar
for the term. 
SEC. 2845a. When a return to a writ of cer­
tiorari shall have been made and filed with the clerk of the court from which
the writ issued the action thereon shall be deemed at issue and may be brought
to a hearing by either party at any general or special term of such court upon
eight days' notice, and if the usual notice of trial shall be given before the 
term such action may be placed on the calendar and disposed of with the cases
denominated issues of law. 
SEC. 2846. The clerk shall prepare a 
calendar for each term of the circuit court of all actions in which such notes
of issue have been so filed, containing the title of each such action, the names
of the attorneys and the date of the issue, and arranged according to the dates 
of issue in three classes: 
1. Issues of fact to be tr~ed by a jury. 
2. Issnes of fact to be tried by the court.
3. Issues of law. 
In which order the calendar shall be disposed of unless for convenience of
parties, the dispatch of business or the prevention of injustice the court shall 
otherwise direct. In all actions pending on appeal the date of filing the re­
turn on appeal shall be deemed the date of issue.
SEC. 2847. Either party may bring
all the issues in an action to trial at any term at which the same are triable
when a notice of trial bas been duly served by either, and unless the court, for
good cause, otherwise direct may, in the absence of the adverse party, proceed
with bis case and take a dismissal of the action or a verdict or judgment, as
the case may require. No inquest shall hereafter be taken in any action. 
SEC. SEOTioN 2848. When, in any
action noticed for trial, there shall be pending a demurrer to any pleading or
a motion to strike out a pleading or any part thereof, or to make it more aef­
inite and certain, and the court shall think any such proceeding by either party
may have been taken for delay or that for any reason justice requires a more
speedy disposition of the action the demurrer or motion may be disposed of
at the commencement of the term and the action be tried at the same term,
short leave to amend or plead over being given when necessary; and a con­
tinuance be granted onlv upon good cause shown, which the court may in dis­
cretion require to be such as is usually required to obtain a second continuance
in other actions. 
SEC. 2849. The court shall,
on request of either party, examine on oath any person who is called as a
Juror therein to know whether he is related to either party, or has any interest
m the cause, or has expressed or formed any opinion, or 1s sensible of any bias
or prejudice therein, and the party objecting to the juror may introduce any
other competent evidence in support of the objection, and if it shall appear to
the court that the juror does not stand indifferent in the cause another shall
be called and elaced in his stead for trial of that cause; provided, that noth­
ing contained in this section shall be construed as abridging in any manner
the right of either party in person or through his attorneys to examine any
person so called in regard to bis qualifications as fully as if this section did 
not exist. 
SEC. SECTION 2850. It shall
be no cause of challenge to a juror that he may have obtained information of
the matters at issue through newspapers or public journals, if he shall have
received no bias or prejudice thereby; or that he is an inhabitant of or liable
to pay taxes in a county interested in the action.
SEC. 2851. Each party shall be entitled to 
three peremptory challenges from a full panel of jurors called in the action.
The challen~es shall be made alternately by the parties, one at a time, the
plaintiff beginning; and when either party shall decline to challenge in his turn
he shall be deemed to have waived each time one challenge. 
SEC. 2852. The jury may, in any case,
at the request of either party, be taken to view the premises or place in ques­
tion or any property, matter or thing relating to the controversy between the
parties, when it shall appear to the court that such view is necessary to a just
decision; provided, the party making the motion shall advance a sum sufficient
to defray the expenses of the juny and the officers who attend them in taking
the view; which expenses shall afterwards be taxed like other legal costs if the
party who advanced them shall prevail in the action. 
SEC. 2853. Upon the trial of
every action the judge presiding shall, before giving the same to the jury, re­ 
duce to writing and give as written his charge and instructions to the jury
and all further and particular instructions given them when they shall return
after having once retired to deliberate, unless a written charge be waived by 
counsel at the commencement of the trial, and except that the charge or in­
structions may be delivered orally when taken down by the official phono­
graphic reporter of the court. Each instruction asked by counsel to be given
the jury shall be given without change or modification, the same as asked, or
refused in full. If any judge shall violate any of the foregoing provisions or
make any comments to the jury upon the law or facts on the trial in any ac­
tion without the same being so reduced to writing or taken down the judg­
ment rendered upon the verdict found on such trial shall be reversed upon
appeal or writ of error, upon the fact appearing. The judge shall require the
phonographic reporter to take down all that he may say during any jury trial
to the jury or to counsel in their presence of or concerning such cause. 
SEC. 2854. As soon as any such charge shall have
been given the same shall be placed and remain on file among the records and 
papers of the case in which it was given. When delivered orally and taken
down by the reporter he shall immediately transcribe the same in long hand
and file the transcribed copy, without special compensation therefor. 
SEC. 2855. When a jury, after due
and thorough deliberation upon any cause, shall return into court without
having agreed on a verdict the court may state anew the evidence or any
part of it and may explain to them anew the law applicable to the case, and
may send them out again for further deliberation; but if they shall return a
second time, without having agreed on a verdict, they shall not be sent out
again without their own consent unless they shall ask from the court some
further explanation of the law. 
SEC. 2856. The plaintiff shall have no
right to submit to a nonsuit after the argument of the cause to the jury upon 
the testimony shall have been concluded or waived. 
SEC. 2857. A general verdict is one by which the jury pro­
nounce generally upon all or any of the issues either in favor of the plaintiff
or defendant_. A special verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only,
leaving the Judgment to the court. Where, upon the trial, the case presents
only questions of law the court may, in its discretion, direct the jury to render
a verdict subject to the opinion of the court. 
SEC. 2858. The court, in its discretion, may, and
when either party, at or before the close of the testimony and before any argu­
ment to the Jury is made or waived, shall so request, the court shall direct the
jury to find a special verdict, Such verdict shall be prepared by the court in
the form of questions, in writing, relating only to material issues of fact and
admitting a direct answer, to which the jury shall make answer in writing.
The court may also direct the jury, if they render a general verdict, to Ii nu in
writinz upon anv particular questions of fact, to be stated as aforesaid. In 
.every ~tion for the recovery of money only or specific real property the jury 
may, in their discretion, when not otherwise directed by the court, render a
general or a special verdict. 
SEC. 2859. When
a verdict is found for the plaintiff in an action for the recovery of money, or
for the defendant when a counter-claim is established beyond the amount of
the plaintiff's claim as established, the jury must assess the amount of the re­ 
covery. The jury may also, under direction of the court, assess the amount
of the damages where the court orders any judgment on the pleadings for
either party. In an action of replevin, if the property have not been delivered
to the plaintiff or the defendant by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury
shall assess the value of the property if their verdict be in favor of the plaint­ 
iff, or if they find in favor of the defendant that he is entitled to a return
thereof, and may at the same time assess the damages, if they are claimed in
the complaint or answer, which the prevailin~ party has sustained by reason
of the detention, or taking or withholding sucn property. 
SEC. 2860. Every ver­ 
dict and special finding of facts shall be entered on the minutes and ,,·hen in
writing be filed with the clerk. When a special finding of facts shall be in­ 
consistent with the general verdict the former shall control the latter, and the
court shall give judgment accordingly. 
SEC. 2861. Upon re­ 
ceiving a verdict the clerk shall make an entry on his minutes specifying the
time and place of the trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict,
and either the judgment rendered thereon or an order that the cause be re­
served for argument or further consideration. If a different direction be not
given by the court the clerk must enter judgment in conformity with the ver­ 
dict. If a counter-claim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintiff's demand
so established judgment for the defendant must be given for the excess; or if
it appears that defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief judgment
must be given accordingly. 
SEC. 2862. Trial by jury may be waived 
by the several parties to an issue of fa.ct in actions on contract, and with the
assent of the court in other actions, in the following manner: 
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. B_y written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the olerk.
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
SEC. 2863. Upon a trial of a question of faot by
the court its decision shall be given in writing and tiled with the clerk within
twenty days after the court at which the trial took place. Judgment upon the
decision shall be entered accordingly, as of the term at which the cause was
tried, and the judge shall state in his decision separately: 
1. The facts found by him; and
2. His conclusions of law thereon. 
SEC. 2864:. All or an.v of tho
issues in the action, whether of fact or of law or both, may be referred, in the
discretion of the court, upon the written consent of the parties. When the
parties do not consent to the reference the court may, upon the application of
either party or of its own motion, direct a reference in the following cases: 
1. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of a. lonz
account on either side; in which case the referee may be directed to hear and 
decide the whole issue or to report upon any specific question of fact involved
therein; or 
2. When the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information of
the court before judgment or for carrying a judgment or order into effect; or 
3. When a question cf fact, other than upon the pleading, shall arise upon
motion or otherwise in any stage of the action. 
SEC. 2865. The
trial by referees shall be conducted in the same manner as a trial by the court. 
They shall have the same power to grant adjournments and allow amendments
to any pleadings as the court upon snob trial upon the same terms and with
the like effect. They shall also ha ve the same power to preserve order and
punish all violations thereof upon such trial, and to compel the attendance of
witnesses before them bv attachment and to punish them as for a contempt
for non-attendance or refusal to be sworn or testify as is possessed by the 
court; and they shall give to the {>arties or their attorneys at least eight days'
: notice of the time and place of tnal; they must state the facts found and con­ 
clusions of law" separately and report their findings, together with all the evi­
dence taken by them and all exceptions taken on the hearing, to the circuit
court; and the circuit court may review such report and on motion enter judg­
ment thereon or set aside, alter or modify the same and enter judgment upon
the same so altered or modified, and may require the referees to amend their
report when necessary .. The judgment so entered by the circuit court may 
be appealed from to the supreme court in like manner as from judgments in
other cases, and the report of the referees may be incorporated with the bill
of exceptions. When the reference is to report the facts the report shall have
the effect of a. special verdict. 
SEC. 2866. In all cases of reference the par­
ties, except when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person 
or persons, not exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered accordingly, 
and if the parties do not agree the court shall appoint one or more referees,
not exceedmg ·three, who shall be free from exception. 
SEC. 2867. If in anv action heard ·
and decided bv a. referee the prevailing party shall fail to cause the referee's 
report to be filed and move for a judgment thereon within one year from the
date of said report the action shall he dismissed or a new trial ordered, on 
motion of the adverse party; provided, such motion shall not be made until
at least two terms of court shall have been held subsequent to the date of such
report. 
SEC. 2868. Every referee appointed for any pur­
pose, before or after judgment in any action or special proceeding, by any
court of record shall have power to administer oaths in any proceedings before
him and shall have generally the powers of a referee for the discharge of the 
duty· required. 
SEC. 2869. In any trial by jury if an ex­
ception be taken it may be reduced to writing at the time, signed by the Judge,
without seal, and filed as part of the record; or it may be entered m the
judge's minutes and afterwards settled by the judge separately in like manner
or in a bilJ of exceptions. Either party may, at any time 'before the close of
the term of court at which the action is tried, except to any part of the judge's 
. charge to the jury, not given with his express consent, with the same effect as
if done at the trial before the jury retired. 
SEC. 2870. In 1ny trial by the court an
exception taken &t the trial may be settled as in trials by jury under the pre­
ceding section; and either party may except to any finding of facts or con­
clusions of law in the decision of the court by filing written exceptions with
the clerk at any time before the expiration of ten days after service upon
him of a written notice of the entry of judgment thereon. All such excep­
tions may be incorporated in the bill of exceptions which may be thereafter
settled. 
SEC. 2871. In anv trial bv a referee 
either party may take exceptions in the same manner as on trials by the court,
and the referee shall note in his minutes anv exceptions so taken as thev are
taken. The prevailing party shall serve upon the other a cory of the referee's 
findings of fact and conclusions of law, after the same shal have been filed,
with a notice of the time and place of such filing, and either party may except
to any finding of fact or conclusion of law by the referee by filing written ex­
ceptions with the clerk at any time before the expiration of ten days after ,
service of such copy and notice. All such exceptions may be incorporated
with the bill of exceptions which may be thereafter settled. When the ref­
eree's findings of fact or conclusions of law are set aside or modified by the
court no exceptions shall be necessary to enable a full review of such orders
upon appeal or writ of error. 
SEC. 2872. Written exceptions to orders made
before judgment may be filed with the clerk at any time before the expiration 
of ten days after service of a copy of such order, with a written notice of the
entry of the same, and incorporated with the bill of exceptions, which may be
thereafter settled. But no such exception shall be necessary to review an
order properly a part of the judgment roll in the action. 
SEC. 2873. 
Either party to an action may, after trial of an issue of fact therein either by
a jury, by the court or by referees have a bill of exceptions settled, as herein­
after provided, containing the evidence given on the trial or so much thereof
as shall be necessary to show the exceptions taken, the rulings and decisions
of the court or referees, and a statement of exceptions taken and such other
decisions or proceedings, not otherwise of record, as shall be material toques­
tions raised or so much thereof as may be desired. The bill of exceptions,
when settled, shall be signed by the judge before whom the issue was tried or
the report reviewed and shall thereby become part of the record. rt need not
be sealed. It shall be filed with the clerk and be bv him annexed to and be
deemed part of the judgment roll. If the judge who tried the issue shall,
from any cause, have ceased to be such judge he shall, notwithstanding, settle
and sign the bill of exceptions, as the late jndge, as if in ott1ce; and ma.y be
compelled, as if in office, by mandamus or otherwise, so to do. 
SEC. 287 4. The party desiring to settle a bill of ex­
ceptions must prepare the same as proposed by him and serve a copy thereof
on the adverse party.· Within ten days thereafter the adverse party may pre­
pare and serve amendments thereto. Either party may then serve upon the
other a written notice that the bill of exceptions will be settled by the judge
at a time and place therein specified, the time to be not less than four nor
more than twenty days after service of such notice. But if no amendments
shall be served within the time aforesaid the proposed bill shall be taken as 
agreed to and may be signed by the judge, without notice to the adverse party,
on proof made of its service and that no amendments have been served. lf 
amendments be served and be accepted the proposed bill, as so amended, mav 
be signed by the judge without notice to the adverse party on proof made of 
its service, the service of the amendments and their acceptance. 
SEC. 2875. When a bill of exceptions shall be served after trial by the court or bv
referees the adverse party may, within ten days after such service, file with
the clerk written exceptions to the findings of fact or conclusions of law, serve
them as amendments and have them, with such of the testimony as shall be
material, incorporated with the bill of exceptions. He may also ·have his ob·
jcctions and exceptions to the admission of testimony on any trial, by jury or
otherwise, likewise incorporated. 
SEC. 2876. After judgment is per­
fected either party may serve upon the other a written notice of the entry
thereof; and service of a proposed bill of exceptions, by either party, must be 
made within sixty days after service of such notice. If a bill of exceptions be
proposed with a view to an appeal from an order it must be served within
thirty days after service of a copy of such order and written notice of the
en try thereof. 
SEC. 2877. When­
ever the judge before whom the issues in an action shall have been tried shall 
die or remove from the state after judgment and before the expiration of the
period limited by statute, rule, stipulation or order for serving a bill of excep­
tions in such action, the bill of exceptions may be settled and made a part of
the record by stipulation of the parties, with the same effect as if duly settled
and signed. But if the parties cannot agree or such judge, when removed
from the state, will not attend within the state and settle such bill, a new
trial shall be ordered upon the application of the party proposing the bill of
exceptions, if made at the first term in the county where the action was tried
succeeding the death or removal of such jud$'e and accompanied by the affi­
davit of such party, his agent or attorney tnat such application is made in
good. faith and not for the purpose of delay, upon condition that he pay all
the taxable costs of the opposite party subsequent to and including service of
the notice of trial for the term at which the action was tried. In case of such
death or removal after such time limited shall have expired the successor of
such circuit judge may, in bis discretion and on such terms as shall be just,
extend the time for settling the bill in order that the appellant may procure 
a stipulation or new trial as herein provided. 
SEC. 2878'. The jucige
\>efore whom the issue is tried may, in his discretion, entertain a motion to be
nade on bis minutes to set aside a verdict and grant a new trial upon excep­
.ions or because the verdict is contrary to law or contrary to evidence, or for
excessive or inadequate damages; but such motion, if heard upon the minutes,
can only be heard at the same term at which the trial is had. When such
motion is heard and decided upon the minutes of the judge and an appeal is
taken from the decision, a bill of exceptions must be settled in the usual form,
upon which the argument of the appeal must be had. 
SEC. 2879. 
A motion for a new trial founded in whole or in part upon newly-discovered
evidence may be heard without a bill of exceptions upon affidavit and the
papers in the action; if also based upon the evidence or part of it taken on
the trial the notice of motion may so state, and it shall be sufficient if the
judge's minutes or a transcribed copy of the phonographic reporter's minutes 
be present for reference at the hearing of the motion. The judge may, how­ 
ever, direct that a bill of exceptions shall be settled for the hearing of the mo­
tion and continue the hearing until such bill is settled. In case of an appeal
the bill of exceptions must be settled as in the cases mentioned in the preced­
ing section. Such a motion may be made at any time within one year from
the verdict or finding. 
SEC. 2880. A 
motion for a new trial on the record or a bill of exceptions, or otherwise, and
an application for judgment on a special verdict or case reserved for argument
or further consideration, or to set aside the report of referees must be heard at
a special or regular term. 
SEC. SEOTioN 2881. No irregu­
larity in any writ of venire facias or in the drawing, summoning, returning or
impaneling of petit jurors shall be sufficient to set aside a verdict unless the
party making the objection was injured by the irregularity or unless the ob­
jection was made before the returning of the verdict. 
SEC. 2882. A judgment is the final determination of the rights
of the parties in the action.
SEC. 2883. 
Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several defendants and
it may determine the ultimate rights of. the parties on each side, as between
themselves, either on cross-complaint or equivalent pleadings or otherwise,
and may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to which he may be en­ titled. In an action against several defendants the court may, in its discretion,
render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed
against the others whenever a several judgment may ~be proper. The oourt
may also dismiss the complaint, with costs, in favor of one or more defend­
ants in case of unreasonable neglect on the part of the plaintiff to serve the
summons on other defendants or to proceed in the cause against the defendant
or defendants served. In case of a finding or decision substantially disposing
of the merits, but leaving an account to be taken, or issue of fact to be de­
cided or some condition to be performed, in order fully to determine the rights
of the parties, an interlocutory judgment may be made, disposing of all issues
covered li>y the finding or decis10?, and reserving further questions until the
report, verdict or subsequent finding.
SEC. 2884. When the
action is against two or more defendants and the summons is served on one or
more, but not on all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows: 
1. If the action be against several personsJ·ointly indebted upon a contract
he may proceed against the defendant serve unless the oourt shall otherwise
direct, and, if he recover judgment, it may be entered in form against all the·
defendants thus jointlv indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced against
the joint property of all and the separate property of the defendant served, and,
if they are subject to arrest, against the persons of the defendants served. 
2. In any action against defendan~s severally liable he may proceed against
the defendant or defendants served in the same manner as if such defendant
or defendants were the only parties proceeded against. 
3. If all the defendants have been served judgment ma.y be taken against
any or either of them, severally, when the £laint1ff would be entitled to judg­ 
ment against such defendant or defendants if the· aotion had been against them
or any of them alone.
SEC. 2885. When it shall appear on
the trial of an action on contract or tort against several defendants, sought to
be charged as jointly or jointly and severally liable, that some were liable and
others not judgment may be rendered against either or any of the defendants
found liable to the plaintiff at the commencement of the action, and in favor
of such as may be found not liable, and costs awarded in the discretion of the
court. 
SEC. 2886. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if
there be no answer, cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his
complaint; but in any other case the court may grant him any relief consist­
ent with the case made by the complaint and embraced within the issue.
SEC. 2887. Whenever damages are recoverable the
plaintiff ma.y ola.im and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any rate
of damages which he might have heretofore recovered for the same cause of
action, except as provided otherwise in special cases. 
SEC. 2888. In any action of replevin judg­
ment for the plaintiff may be for the possession or for the recovery of posses­
sion of the property, or the value thereof in case a. delivery cannot be had, and
of damages for the detention; and when the property shall have been deliv­
ered to the defendant, under section 2722, judgment may be as aforesaid or
absolutely for the value thereof, and damages for the detention at the plaint­
iff's option. If the property have been delivered to the plaintiff and a defend­
ant claim a return thereof judgment for the defendant may be for a return of
the property or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and damages
for taking and withholding the same. 
SEC. 2889. When a 
judgment shall be entered against either party in an action of replevin it may
be entered both against the principal and the sureties who shall have signed a
written undertaking with him for a return or deli very of the property, as pre­
scribed in chapter 1~3; and in cases where the officer, to whom the execution
thereon is directed, may collect the value of the property or any damages or
costs of the principal he shall, if he cannot find sufficient property of the prin­
cipal to satisfy the same, collect the whole or any part of the judgment which
may remain unsatisfied of the property of such sureties, and the party issuing
execution shall indorse a. direction thereon to that effect. 
SEC. 2890. In all actions
brought for the breach of the conditions of a bond or to recover a penalty for
non-performance of any covenant or agreement if the plaintiff recover his
damages shall be assessed and judgment entered for the amount thereof, and
enforced as in other actions upon contract. No such judgment shall conclude
any claim upon such bond, covenant or agreement not embraced in the plead­
ings or be a discharge of the penal sum beyond the amount of damages re-
covered thereby. This section does not apply to actions regulated by chap­
ter 44.
2891. Judgment may be had 
if the defendant fail to answer the complaint, as follows: 
In actions on contract. 1. In any action arising on contract for the re·
covery of monev only the plaintiff may file with the clerk, with the summons
and complaint, 'proof of personal service of the summons on one or more of
the defend1nts and that no answer or demurrer has been received or if any
such has been received that the same has been struck out bv order of the
court or a judge, and that no other answer or demurrer has been received, and
the time granted by any order therefor has expired. If the complaint be duly
verified the clerk shall thereupon enter judgment for the amount demanded in
the complaint against such defendant or defendants or against one or more of
the several defendants in the cases provided for in section 2884. But if the
complaint be not duly verified and such action is on an instrument for the pay·
ment of money only, the clerk, on its production to him, shall assess the
amount due to the plaintiff thereon; and in other cases shall ascertain and
assess the amount which the plaintiff is entitled to recover in the action from
his examination under oath or other proof and enter the judgment for the
amount so assessed. In case the defendant shall have appeared in the action
he shall be entitled to five days' notice of the time and place of such assessment. 
In other actions. 2. In other actions the plaintiff may, upon the like proof,
apply to the court for judgment according to the demand of the complaint. If 
the. taking an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court
to give juclgment or to carry the judgment into effect the plaintiff may, with
a view to such application, at. any time after the expiration of the ti"me for
answering, have an order of reference, by the court or a judge, to take such 
account or proofs and report the same to the court at any time, in the circuit,
at which judgment may be rendered, and such reference may be executed in
any county most convenient therefor; or upon such applicat,ion being made
the court may take the account, or hear the proof, or in its discretion order a
reference for that purpose. And when the action is for the recovery of monev
only or of specific real or personal property, with damages for thewithholding
thereof, the court may order the damages to be assessed by a Jury. If the
defendant shall have appeared in the action he shall be entitled to eight days'
notice of such application for judgment. 
In cases of publication. 3. In actions where the service of tho summons
was made without the state or by publication proof shall be made, as afore­ 
said, of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and in case the defendant
is a non-resident the plaintiff or his agent shall be examined on oath as to any
payment that may have been made to such plaintiff or to any one for his use
on account of such demand, and the court may render judgment for the amount
which he is entitled to recover; and before entering judgment the court may,
in its discretion, require the plaintiff to cause to be tiled satisfactorv securitv 
to abide the order of the court touching the restitution of any estate or effects
which may be directed by such judgment to be transferred or delivered or the 
restitution of any money that may be collected under or by virtue of such
judgment, in case the defendant or his representatives shall apply and be ad­
mitted to defend the action and shall succeed in such defense.
SEC. 2892. In an action arisin~ on 
a contract for the recovery of money only if the answer of the defendant, either
expressly or by not denying, admits any part of the plaintiff's claim to be just 
or if such answer sets up a counter-claim or set-off for an amount less than the
plaintiff's claim and contains no other defense to the action the clerk, on the
application of the plaintiff, shall enter judgment for the amount so admitted
or for the amount claimed in the complaint, after deducting the amount of the
defendant's counter-claim or set-off; notice of such application shall be given
to the defendant at least five days before· the same is made. When the an­
swer of the defendant in any case, expressly or by not denying, admits part of
the plaintiff's claim to be just the court may, on motion, order such defendant
to satisfy that part of the claim and may enforce the order as it enforces a·
judgment or provisional remedy, 
SEC. 2893. When the
plaintiff is entitled to judgment after trial upon an issue of law he may pro­
ceed in the manner prescribed in section 2891, 'upon the failure of the defend­
ant to answer, where the summons was personally served or according to such
order for judgment as the -ourt may have made on such trial. If the defend­
ant be entitled to judgmeut after a like trial he may proceed according to such
order therefor as may have been likewise made; or, if none, he may apply to
the court therefor, and thereupon the court may take any account, or hear
proof, or order a reference or an assessment of damages by a. jury, when nec­
essary to enable the court to complete the judgment, as may be done on appli­
cation of the plaintiff under the section aforesaid. 
SEC. 2894. Judgment upon trial
of an issue of fact by the court or by referees or upon failure to answer (except
where the clerk is authorized to enter the same by this chapter) must be entered
by the clerk upon the direction of the court. 
SEC. 2894:a. When­
ever a finding shall be filed or a. verdict rendered the successful party shall per­ 
fect the judgment and cause it to be entered thereon within sixty days after
sueh filing or rendition, and if he neglect or fail so to do the clerk of the court
shall prepare and enter the proper judgment, but without costs to either party.
The neglect or failure of such party to so perfect and enter judgment shall be
deemed a waiver of his right to the accrued costs in the action; provided, that
whenever from any cause there shall be a. stay of proceedings after the filing
of the findings or after verdict such judgment may be perfected at any time
within sixty days after the expiration of such stay. No execution shall issue
upon any judgment until the same is perfected by the taxation of the costs of
the action and the insertion of the amount thereof in the judgment or until the
expiration of the time hereinbefore mentioned. 
SEC. 2895. A 
judgment upon a bond or note, with or without a warrant of attorney, may be
rendered without action either for money due or to become due, or to secure 
any person against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in
the manner prescribed in the next section. 
SEC. 2896. The plaintiff shall file with his complaint
an answer signed by the defendant or some attornev in his behalf, confessing
the amount claimed in the complaint or some pa.rt"' thereof, and in case such
answer is signed by an attorney an instrument authorizing judgment to be
confessed or entered shall be produced to the court or judge signing the judg­
ment and shall be made a part of the judgment roll. The plaintiff or some
one in his behalf shall make and annex to the complaint an affidavit stating
the amount due or tobecome due on the note or bond, or if such note or bond
is given to secure any contingent liability the affidavit must state concisely
the facts constituting such liability and must show that the sum confessed does
not exceed the same. No other affidavit shall be necessary although more
than a year and a day may have expired since the date of the warrant or in­
strument. The judgment shall be signed by the court or a judge and shall be
thereupon entered and docketed by the clerk and enforced in the same man­
ner as judgments in other cases. 
SEC. 2897. The judgment shall be entered
in the judgment book and shall specify clearly the relief granted or other de­
termination of the action. All the orders of the court or a judge in an action
shall be recorded in the proper books.
SEC. 2898. Unless the party or his attorney shall fur­
nish a judgment roll the clerk, immediately after entering the judgment, shall
attach together and file the following papers, which shall constitute the judg­
ment roll: 
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant the summons
and complaint or copies thereof, proof of service, and that no answer has been
received, the report, if any, and a copy of the judgment. 
2. In all other cases the summons, pleadings or copies thereof and a copy of
judgment, with any verdict or report, the offer of the defendant, exception,
case and all orders and papers in any way involving the merits and necessarily
atrecting the judgment. 
SEC. 2899. At the time of filing the judgment roll
upon a judgment directing in whole or in part the payment of money the
clerk shall enter in a judgment docket, either arranged alphabetically or ac­
companied by an alphabetical index, in books to be provided by the county
and kept by him, a docket of such judgment containing: 
1. The name at length of each judgment debtor, with bis place of abode, title and trade or profession, if any such be stated in the record. 
2. The name of the judgment creditor, in like manner.
3. The name of the attorney for the judgment creditor, if stated in the reo- 
ord.
4. The date of the entry of the judgment. 
5. The day and hour of entering such docket.
6. The amount of the debt, damages or other sum of money recovered, with 
the costs. 
7. If the judgment be against several persons such statement shall be re­
peated under the name of each person against whom the judgment was ren­
dered, in the alphabetical order of their names, respectively, when the docket 
is arranged alphabetically, or entered in the index under the name of each
such person when the docket is kept with an alphabetical index accompanying.
SEC. 2900. The clerk of the cir­
cuit court shall, upon the production to him of a duly certified transcript of a
judgment for more than ten dollars, exclusive of costs, 'rendered by any justice
of the peace in his county, forth with .file the same and docket such judgment
in the docket of the court in the manner prescribed in the next preceding seo­
tion. When the transcript shall show that execution was stayed m the justice's
court, with the name of the surety thereof, the clerk shall docket the judgment
against such surety as well as the judgment debtor, and such surety shall be
bound thereby as a judgment debtor and his property be subject to lien and
be liable thereon to the same extent as his principal. Every such judgment,
from the time of such filing of the transcript thereof, shall be deemed the judg­
ment of the circuit court, be equally under the control thereof and be carried
into execution, both as to the principal judgment debtor and his surety, if any,
in the same manner and with like etf ect as the judgments thereof, except that
no action can be brought upon the same as a judgment of suoh court nor exe­
cution issued thereon after the expiration of the period of the lien thereof on
real estate provided by section 2902.
SEC. 2901. When a. judg­
ment shall have been docketed as provided in the two preceding sections it may
be docketed in the like manner in anv other county, uron filing with the clerk 
of the circuit court thereof a transcrlpt of the origina · docket, certified by the
clerk of the circuit court having custody thereof. 
SEC. 2901a. Every clerk of a. court
of record shall keep, in addition to the other records r~uired to be kept by
him, in a. book set apart for the purpose, a. daily journal m which every judg­ 
ment or decree a.ffecting -real estate shall be entered immediately before 1t 
shall be docketed, a.nd after such entry he shall immediately docket such judg­
ment or decree in the manner provided by law. All such judgments and de­
crees shall be numbered consecutively, commencing with number one, and shall
be entered in such journal thus: 
For entering every such judgment or decree the clerk shall receive twenty
cents. 
2901b. Whenever a judgment affecting real property
shall be rendered in any county other than that in which such property is 
situate the court in which such judgment was rendered may, at any time there­
after, order tha.t the judgment roll in the action wherein such judgment was 
rendered, with all papers filed and copies of an entries, orders and minutes
made therein, shall be by its clerk certified and transmitted to the clerk of the
circuit court of the county wherein such property is situate; or such court
may order that certified copies of such judgment roll, papers, orders, entries
and minutes be so transmitted, and upon the filing of such papers. or certified
copies in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county wherein such
propertv is situate all proceedings for the enforcement of such judgment may
be had in the circuit court thereof, with the same force and effect as if such
judgment had been originally entered therein; provided, the court wherein
said judgment was rendered shall have concurrent jurisdiction of proceedings
to enforce such judgment when certified copies of the judgment roll and papers
shall be so transmitted. 
SEC. 2902. Every such judgment, when so docketed, shall, for a. period expiring ten
yea.rs from the date of the rendition thereof, be a lien on the real property in
the county where the same is docketed, except the homestead mentioned in sec­
tion 2983, of every person against whom such judgment shall be rendered and
docketed, and which he may have at the time of docketing thereof in the
county in which such real estate is situated or which he shall acquire at any
time thereafter within said period of ten years; provided, that any judgment
rendered in an action or proceeding in which a husband may be joined as de­
fendant with his wife to recover damages for any tort committed by her shall
not be docketed against or be in any way a lien on his estate, and that no
judgment affecting real estate which shall be docketed and dated back to a
time prior to its actual entry in the docket shall be a lien upon real estate or
notice to a purchaser for value until the actual time of docketin~; the priority
of such judgments as liens upon real estate shall be determined oy their num­
ber on the daily journal which the clerks of courts of record are required to
keep by the provisions of section 2901a. But when the collection of the judg­
ment or the sale of the real estate upon which the same may be ~ lien shall 
be delayed or prohibited by any injunction or other order or otherwise, by
law, and the judgment creditor shall have caused to be entered on the docket
"enforcement suspended by injunction" or otherwise, as the case may be, with
the date of such entry affixed, the time of such delay or prohibition after the
date of such entry shall not be taken or counted as any part of the said period
of ten years. And whenever an appeal from any judgment shall be pending
and duly perfected and the undertaking requisite to stay execution thereon
shall have been given, the court in which such judgment was recovered may,
on special motion, after notice to the owner of such judgment, on such terms
as it shall see fit, direct an entry to be made by the clerk on the docket of such
judgment that the same is "secured on appeal," and thereupon it shall cease
during the pendency of such appeal to be a lien on the real property of the
judgment debtor as against purchasers and mortgagees in good faith. When­
ever such judgment shall be affirmed on such appeal or the appeal dismissed
the clerk shall, on the filing of the remittitur or Judgment of attirmance or of
dismissal of the appeal, enter on the docket" lien restored by attirmance" or
"lien restored by dismissal of appeal," with the date of such entry, and the
lien thereof shall be thereupon restored accordingly. Similar entries may be
made with the like effect upon the docket of such judgment in any other county
upon filing with the clerk of the circuit court thereof a transcript of the docket
of the county in which the same was so first docketed. 
SEC. 2902a. The clerk of
the supreme court, on demand of any person in whose favor any final judg- -
ment of said court for the recovery of money or for costs shall have been ren­
dered, shall, upon payment of one dollar, give to such person a certified tran­
script of such judgment, which transcript may be filed and docketed in the
office of the clerk of the circuit court of any countv in the manner that other
judgments are docketed therein and shall then be a. like lien on the real prop­
erty in the county where the same is docketed of ev_ery person against whom
said judgment shall be rendered and docketed or which he shall thereafter ac­ 
quire, as judgments of the circuit court docketed in such county. And when­
ever the supreme court shall remit its judgment for the recovery of money or
for costs to the circuit court from which the appeal or writ of error was taken
such judgment shall in like manner be docketed in the office of the clerk of
said court and shall have the like force and effect as judgments of the circuit
court so docketed. 
SEC. 2902b. The several
clerks of the circuit oourts shall docket and index the judgments and decrees
of the courts of the United States in the same manner as tlie judgments of the
courts of this state may be docketed and indexed, but in separate volumes, 
upon the reoeipt of copies of such judgments and deorees, duly oertified by the
clerk of the court in whioh they were rendered, and upon payment of the fees
allowed by law for like services. 
SEC. 2903. Whenever any judg­
ment which shall have been docketed shall be reversed on appeal and the re­
mittitur or judgment of reversal shall have been filed the clerk shall enter on
the docket thereof " reversed Oil appeal by," adding the name of the court
which rendered the judgment of reversal. 
SEC. 2904. The books in which dockets of
judgments shall be entered shall, during the usual hours of transacting busi­
ness, be open to the search and examination of all persons desiring the same. 
SEC. 2905. Every clerk who shall
docket a. jnd~ent or decree and enter upon the docket a date or time other 
than that of its actual entry or shall neglect to docket the same at the proper
time shall be liable to the party injured in treble the damages he may sustain
by reason of such' fault or neglect. 
SEC. 2906. An assignment of a. judgment
made be made by an instrument in writing duly acknowledged. When such
an assignment shall be filed with the clerk he shall note the fact and the date
thereof and of filing on the docket. As assignment may also be made by a
brief entry on the docket thus: "I assign this judgment to A. B.," signed by
the owner, with the date affixed, and witnessed by the clerk; which shall have
the effect to fully transfer all the rights of the owner of such judgment to such 
assignee. 
SEC. 2907. When an ex­
ecution issued upon any judgment shall be returned satisfied in whole or in 
part such judgment shall be deemed satisfied to the extent of the amount so
returned as liaving been collected on such execution unless such return be
vacated by the court; and upon any execution being so returned the clerk of
the court shall enter in the docket of such judgment the fact that the amount
stated in such return to have been levied has been collected. 
SEC. 2908. A judgment may be satisfied
in whole or in part or as to any or all the judgment debtors by an instrument
in writing, signed and acknowledged by the owner thereof, or at any time within
five years after the rendition thereof, when no assignment has been filed, by .
the attorney of record of the judgment creditor, or by a brief acknowledg­
ment of satisfaction, signed as aforesaid and entered on the docket of the judg­
ment in the county wliere first docketed, with the date affixed, and witnessed
by the clerk. Every satisfaction of a. part of a judgment or as to some of the
judgment debtors shall state the amount paid thereon or for the release of
such debtors, naming them. 
SEC. 2909. No satisfao­
tion by an attorney shall be conclusive upon the judgment creditor in respect
to any person who shall have notice of revocation of the authority of such at­
tornev, before any payment made thereon or before any purchase of property
bound by such judgment shall have been effected. 
SEC. 2910. On filing with him
an instrument of satisfaction, duly executed and acknowledged, the clerk shall 
file the same with the papers in the case and enter the same on the court rec­
ord, if any, of the case, and shall also enter a brief statement of the substance
thereof, including the amount paid, on the margin of the judgment docket with
the date of filing the satisfaction. 
SEC. 2911. When a judgment shall
have been fully paid and not satisfied or the instrument of satisfaction shall
have been lost the court in which the same was recovered may, upon satisfac­
tory proof, authorize the attorney of the judgment creditor to satisfv the same
or may by order declare the same satisfied and direct satisfaction tobe entered 
upon the docket. 
SEC. 2912.
When a judgment shall have been satisfied in whole or in part or· as to any 
judgment debtor and such satisfaction entered upon the docket, as aforesaid,
suoli judg,nent shall, to the extent of such satisfaction, be discharged and cease
to be a hen; and if any execution shall be thereafter issued thereon it shall be
indorsed, with a memorandum of such partial satisfaction and a. direction to
colleot only the residue thereof, or to collect only from the judgment debtors
remainingliable thereon. 
SEC. 2913. When any satisfaction
of a judgment shall have been entered on the docket, as aforesaid, in the county
where tbe same was first docketed a certified transcript of such docket or a. 
certificate by the clerk, under his official seal, showing such satisfaction, may 
be filed with the clerk of the circuit court in any other countv where the same
may have been docketed, and such clerk shall thereupon make a similar entry
on the docket of such judgment in his county, which shall have the same effect
as in the county where the same was originally entered. 
SEC. 2914. The clerk shall give a certilled
transcript of any judgment record in his office when the same shall be de­ 
manded and the legal lees tendered. 
SEC. 2915. If any owner
of any judgment shall, after full payment thereof, refuse or neglect, for the 
space of seven days after being thereto requested and after tender of his rea­
sonable charges therefor, to satisfy the same in one of the modes aforesaid he
shall be liable to the party paying the same, his heirs or representatives, in the
sum of fifty dollars damages and also for actual damages occasioned by such
neglect or refusal, to be recovered in an action. 
SEC. 2916. No action shall
be brought upon a. judgment rendered in any court of this state, except a court
of a justice of the peace, between the same parties, without leave of the court,
for a good cause shown, on notice to the adverse party. 
SEC. 2917. No judgment heretofore rendered
shall be opened or vacated upon the ground that any attorney of record in the
action was at any time a citizen of another state. 
SEC. 2918. Costs shall be allowed of
course to the plaintiff in an action in the circuit court upon a recovery in the
following cases, except when otherwise specially provided by law: 
1. In an action for the recovery of real property or when a. claim of title to
real property arises on the proceedings or is certified by the court to have come
in question at the trial. 
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property when the value
of the property recovered is fifty dollars or more. 
3. In the actions of which a justice's court has no jurisdiction.
(. In an action for assault and battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, 
malicious prosecution, criminal conversation or seduction, but if in any such
action the plaintiff recover less than fifty dollars damages he shall recover no
more costs than damages. 
5. In other actions of tort for the recovery of money when the plaintifJ shall
recover fifty dollars or more. 
6. In an action on contract wherein real estate shall have been attached at
the commencement thereof, without regard to the amount recovered, and in
an action on contract when the plaintiff shall recover one hundred dollars or
more. 
·7. In an action on con tract when a justice of the peace has jurisdiction wherein
the amount claimed by the plaintiff in his complaint duly verified shall exceed
the sum of two hundred dollars, but in such cases the plaintiff shall recover
only such taxable costs as the court in its discretion shall allow, when the re­
covery shall be less than fifty dollars; but in all equitable actions and special
proceedings costs may be allowed or not to any party, in whole or in part, in
the discretion of the court. 
SEC. 2919. When several actions shall be
bronght on one bond, recognizance, promissory note, bill of exchange or other
instrument in writing, or in any other case for the same cause of action against
several parties who might have been joined as defendants in the same action
no costs, other than disbursements, shall be allowed to the plaintiff in more
than one of such actions, which shall be at bis election; provided, the party
or parties proceeded against in such other action or actions shall, at the time
of the commencement of the previous action or actions, have been within this
state and not secreted. 
SEC. 2920. Costs shall be allowed of course to
the defendant in the actions mentioned in the two preceding sections unless
the plaintiff be entitled to costs therein, but where there are several defend­
ants not united in interest and making separate defenses by separate answers,
and the plaintiff recovers against one or more but not all of such defendants,
the court may award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their
favor or to any of them. 
SEC. 2921. When allowed costs shall be as follows:
For a retaining fee, three dollars; but no such fee shall be allowed to the 
defendant's attorney upon confessing judgment when no suit shall have been
actually brought. 
A term fee for each term of court during the progress of a cause, not ex­
ceeding three terms in any one cause, two dollars. 
Drawing all process and returns, admission of guardians, recognizances of
bail in suits agamst the bail only, pleadings, adjournments, suggestions, entries,
special verdicts, bills of exceptions, demurrer to evidence, and cases which shall
be necessary, and all other necessary entries, pleadings and proceedings in an
action according to the practice of the court, and for which no special pro-
vision is herein made, for each folio, twenty-five cents. . 
For engrossing or copying the same, including all records, writs, returns,
pleadings, instruments and all other writings necessarily inserted, for each folio,
twelve cents. · 
For every necessary ordinary motion, sixty-two and a half cents; but not to
be allowed upon any confession of judgment, where no suit shall have been act­ 
ually brought, for any motion except for judgment.
For attending the execution of a writ of inquiry or the assessment of damages 
by the clerk, one dollar and fifty cents.
For attending the trial of a cause, three dollars per day; attending the judge 
out of term upon petition or upon special motion, one dollar.
For arguing a demurrer, special verdict, bill of exceptions, certiorari, habeas 
corpus or a return to mandamus or prohibition, three dollars.
For a brief and copies, when actually made, three dollars.
Drawing a judgment, not less than seventy-fl ve cents.
Attendance before a referee, three dollars per day during the trial of the 
canse before such referee; attendance on striking a jury and on the examination
of witnesses out of court, fifty cents. 
All the necessary disbursements and fees of officers allowed by law, includ­
ing suit tax, the compensation of referees, amounts actually paid out for postage,
telegraphing, telephoning, express or for plats and photographs, not exceed­
ing fifteen dollars for the last two items, and in actions relating to or affect­
ing the title to lands, the cost of procurin~ an abstract of title to such lands.
Such fees and disbursements shall be taxed against and recovered from the
adverse party and be collected and paid over as a part of the judgment; pro­
vided, that in actions at law on contract the costs, exclusive of disbursements,
shall not in anv one case exceed twenty-five dollars, and when the sum re­
covered is less than two hundred dollars the same shall not exceed fifteen dol­
lars. And if the defendant be entitled to recover costs therein he shall recover
the same costs as the plaintiff would have been entitled to recover if the de­
mand of his complaint had been established. 
When a judgment for damages for less than one hundred dollars is entered
upon confession or upon a note or bond and warrant of attorney no more than
five dollars shall be recovered for costs, including disbursements. 
SEC. 2922. When the judgment is for the recovery of money interest from
the time of verdict or report until judgment is finally entered shall be com­
puted by the clerk and added to the costs of the party entitled thereto. And 
in all actions of trespass, trover or replevin in circuit court, founded upon the
unlawful cutting of timber, or such cutting and its conversion, or such cutting
and its unlawful detention, when the vafue of such timber or the damages
claimed in the complaint and the amount recovered exceeds .fifty dollars, full
costs shall be recovered by the plaintiff, and there shall be included therein
the actual reasonable expense of one survey and ascertainment of the quantity
of timber so cut, or cut and converted, or cut and detained, made after the
commencement of the action, by one surveyor and one assistant, if duly proved
as a necessary disbursement in such action. And the defendant shall recover
like costs in the same manner in such actions in case the plaintiff is not entitled 
to recover costs. 
SEC. 2923. When an application shall be
made to a court or referee to postpone a trial the payment to the adverse party
of a sum not exceeding ten dollars besides the fees of witnesses may be im- ·
posed as the condition of granting the· postponement. 
SEC. 2924. Costs may be allowed on a motion, in
the discretion of the court or judge, not exceeding ten dollars, and may be ab.
solute or directed to abide the event of the action.
SEC. 2925. In actions removed from justices' courts
by appeal, where there is no new trial in the appellate court, if the judgment 
be affirmed or the appeal dismissed the respondent shall have costs; if reversed,
the appellant; if affirmed in part and reversed in part, the court may award
the costs or such part thereof as shall seem just to either party. Where there
is a new trial costs shall be awarded to the successful party; but if the appeal
be from a. judgment below in favor of the appellant he shall have costs only
when he shall obtain a more favorable judgment, and otherwise the respondent
shall have costs. In all such cases full costs shall be ten dollars and all dis­
bursements made for state tax, return of the justice, and officers and witnesses'
fees, together with all costs and fees by law taxable in the justice's court in such 
action. 
SEC. 2926. In all actions in the circuit court
brought by a. writ of certiorari the same costs shall be awarded to the plaintiff
in error or to the defendant in error and in the same oases as provided by the
preceding section in actions appealed from justices' courts, where there is no
new trial had. 
SEC. 2927. The clerk shall tax and insert in the 
entry of judgment and in the docket thereof, if the same shall have been dock­
eted, on the application of the prevailing party, upon three days' notice to the
other, the sum of the costs and disbursements as above provided. The disburse­ 
ments shall be stated in detail and verified. by affidavit, which shall be filed
with the clerk. 
SEC. 2928. When there shall be charges
in a bill of costs for the attendance of any witnesses, or copies, or exemphfi­
cations of documents or papers, or for any other disbursements, except to
officers for services rendered, such charges for witnesses shall not be taxed
without an affidavit stating the distance they respectively traveled and the
days they actually attended, and such charges for copies shall not be taxed
without an affidavit that such copies were actually and necessarily used or
necessarily obtained for use; nor shall such disbursements be allowed without
an affidavit specifying the items thereof particularly, nor unless they appear 
to have been necessary and reasonable in amount. 
SEC. 2929. If, in any action, a recovery be had
by one party and costs be awarded to the other the court may set off one
against the other and render judgment for the balance. 
SEC. 2930. The fees of referees, except in cases where
the court is authorized to order a compulsory reference, shall be three dollars
for each day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties may agree
in writing upon any other rate of compensation. Where a compulsory refer­
ence shall be ordered the fees and expenses of the referees shall be fixed bv
the court in which the action is pending-upon the coming in of the report, and
shall be paid by the county the court of which ordered the reference in the
same manner as other expenses of the oircuit court are paid. 
SEC. 2931. When costs are adjudged
against an infant plaintiff the guardian by whom he appeared in the action
shall be responsible therefor, and paymentmay be enforced by attachment. 
SEC. 2932. In an action prosecuted
or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust or a per­
son expressly authorized by statute, unless otherwise specially provided, costs
shall be recovered as in an action by and against a person prosecuting or de­
fending in his own right; but such costs shall be chargeable only upon or col­
lected of the estate, fund or party represented, unless the court shall direct
the same to be paid by the plaint1ff or defendant yersonally, for mismanage­ 
mentor bad faith in such action or defense. In al actions or prooeedings in
which any receiver, assignee, guardian, executor, administrator or other fidu­ 
ciary may be entitled to recover costs he may recover, in addition to other
costs, such sum paid a company authorized by the laws of this state so to
do for becoming his surety upon any bond or other obligation given by him
in his representative capacity, pursuant to law or the order of any court or
judge, as may be allowed by the court or judge in which or before whom he
accounts, not exceeding two per centum per annum on the amount secured by
such obligation, or any less amount which he may have paid any such company 
for such purpose. 
SEC. 2933. In actions in which the
cause of action shall, by assignment, after the commencement of the action or
in any other manner become the property of a person not a.. party to the ac­
tion such person shall be liable for the costs in the same manner as if he were
a party; and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment. 
SEC. 2934. Upon settlement, before judgment,
no greater sum shall be demanded from the defendant for costs than at the 
rate prescribed in this c.hapter. 
SEC. 2935. The term" folio," when used as a measure
for computing fees or compensation, shall be construed to mean one hundred
words, counting every figure necessarily used as a word; and any portion of
a folio, when in the whole draft or paper there shall not be a complete folio
and when there shall be any excess over the last folio, shall be computed as a 
folio.
SEC. 2936. No fee
shall b~ taxed for services as. having been rendered by any attorney, solicitor, 
clerk, sheriff or other officer m the progress of a cause unless such service was 
actually rendered, except when otherwise expressly provided. 
SEC. 2937. No record, writ,
return, pleading, instrument or other writing copied into any proceeding, entry,
process or suggestion shall be computed as any part of the draft of such pro.
cee<ling, entry, process or suggestion.
SEC. 2938. The legal fees paid for cer­ 
tified copies of the depositions of witnesses filed in any clerk's office and of any
documents or papers recorded or filed in any public office, necessarily used on
the trial of a cause or on the assessment of damages shall be allowed in the
taxation of costs. 
SEC. 2939. In eaoh action in a court of record
havin~ civil jurisdiction there shall be levied a tax of one dollar which shall
be paid to the clerk at the time of the commencement thereof, which tax on
suits in the circuit court shall be paid into the state treasury and form a sep­
arate fund to be applied to the payment of the salaries of the circuit judges;
and which tax in other courts of reoord the salaries of the judges of which
are wholly paid by the counties or by any county and city jointly shall be paid
to the county treasurer to create a fund to be applied to the payment of the
salaries of such judges. 
SEC. 294-0. In
all actions or legal proceedings, including criminal actions, where a change of
venue is had or made by the order of any court or of any judge, pursuant to 
law (except in cases where such change is made because the action was not
brought m the proper county), the county in whioh such action was com·
menced shall pav to the county in which the same shall be tried the follow.
ing expenses arising out of such change of venue: 
1. The per diem fees allowed by law to the clerk or his deputy or deputies,
all the taxable costs, disbursements and foes of such olerk on any such pro·
oeeding or action. 
2. The per diem fees allowed by law to the petit jurors actually in attend·
anoe upon said court. 
3. The per diem fees allowed by law to the sheriff, under-sheriff and depu­
ties in 'attendance upon said court. 
4. All lawful charges for boarding the jury.
5. The lefQ'&l fees of all witnesses many criminal case or proceedings whioh 
are a lawfu charge against the county.
6. The fees or oompensation allowed by law to the phonographic reporter 
in attendance upon said court and such other fees allowed to such reporter in
criminal proceedings which are chargeable to the county by law. 
7. Sucli other lawful costs, charges, fees and disbursements which, by law,
are chargeable to the county, and all lawful costs, disbursements and charges
which any such county may be lawfully subjected to or may incur in any such
action or proceedings. 
8. All lawful charges and fees for subpoenaing witnesses in any criminal
case or proceedings and which are a proper charge against the county. The
fees of such officers, jurors and phonographer to be estimated for each day 
and part of a day, not less than half a day, occupied in trying or disposing
of any such action; but no costs shall be paid to such county to which a change
of venue is had which are not properly chargeable against such county. 
SEC. 2941. The clerk shall make
out a correct bill of all the expenses which shall accrue during any such trial,
as aforesaid, and have the same taxed and allowed by the judge of such court;
and when so taxed shall, without delay, transmit the same to the county clerk
of the county in which said action was commenced, and who, at the first meet­
ing of the board of supervisors of such county after receiving such bill, shall
present the same to such board; and such board shall issue an order therefor 
in favor of the county, in which any such action or proceedings were had, or
tried or its assigns. 
SEC. 2942. Any court of record
in which a civil action mav be pending may, in all cases where it shall appear
reasonable and proper, require the plaintiff to give sufficient security for all
such costs as may be a warded against him therein. 
SEC. 2943. When an action shall 
be commenced in any such court:
1. For a plaintiff not residing within the jurisdiction of such court or for 
several plaintiffs who are all non-residents; or
2. For or in the name of a foreign corporation, non-resident executor, ad- 
ministrator, guardian, trustee or receiver; or
3. For or in the name of the trustees or assignees of any debtor; or
4. For or in the name of any person in execution for crime; or
5. In every action against a garnishee in which the plaintiff shall take issue •· 
upon the answer of the garnishee,
The defendant may require such plaintiff to file security for the payment 
of costs that may be incurred by the defendant in such action or proceeding. 
SEC. 2944. If, after the commencement of an action,
the plaintiff shall become a non-resident or all the plaintiffs become non-resi­
dents, or be sentenced to state prison for any term less than for life, the de.
fendant may also require such security to be filed. 
SEC. 2945. Upon proof by affidavit entitling the
defendant thereto the court or judge shall make an order requiring the plaint­
iff to file security for costs in a sum therein mentioned, not less than two hun­
dred and fifty dollars, within twenty days after the service upon him of a copy
of such order, and that all proceedings on the part of such plaintiff be stayed
until such security be filed. 
SEC. 2946. Within the time required by such
order the plaintiff shall file with the clerk of the court, and give the defend­
ant notice thereof, an undertaking, with one or more sufficient sureties, to the 
' effect that the plaintiff will pay on demand all costs that may be awarded to
· the defendant in such action in any court, not exceedinz the sum mentioned 
in such order. Such undertaking shall be of no effect unfess it be accompanied 
by the affidavit of the sureties in which each surety shall state that he is worth
a certain sum mentioned, over and above all his debts and liabilities, in prop­
ertv within this state not by law exempt from execution, wbioh sums shall, m
the aggregate, be double the amount specified in the undertaking. Upon fail­
ure to file such undertaking the court may, upon motion of the defendant, dis.
miss the plaintiff's action. 
SEC. 2947. If any surety in any such under­
taking shall remove from the state or be deemed at any time insufficient the
court or presiding judge may require the plaintiff to give a new undertaking,
and every person becoming surety on any such undertaking shall be liable for 
all costs, from the commencement of the action, in like manner as if he had
been the original surety. 
SEC. 2948. In any case in
which the defendant, at the time of the commencement of the action, shall by 
law be entitled to require security for costs the attorney for the plaintiff shall
be liable for such costs to an amount not exceeding one hundred dollars until
security therefor be filed as herein provided, whether such security shall have
been required by the defendant or not; but such attorney may relieve himself 
from such liability by filing an undertaking as hereinbefore prescribed, and 
giving notice thereof, without being required so to do by the defendant. 
SEC. 29!9. Costs shall be allowed in the supreme court,
irrespective of any costs taxed in the case in the court below, to the prevailing 
party in the supreme court on any appeal or writ of error in any civil action
or proceeding as follows: The fees of the clerk of the sur.reme court, the fees
of the clerk of the court below for transmitting and certifying the record and
twenty-five dollars attorney's fees besides necessary disbursements, including
the sum paid for a phonographer's minutes when necessarily procured for the
purpose of settling a bill of exceptions; but when the judgment of the court
below shall be affirmed in part and reversed in part, or affirmed as to some of 
· the parties and reversed as to others, or modified, the costs shall be in the dis­
cretion of the court; and when the judgment is reversed and a new trial ordered
the court may, in its discretion, direct that the costs of the prevailing party
shall abide the result of the action. In all other actions, writs and proceed­
ings therein, except criminal actions, costs may be allowed in the discretion of
the court not exceeding the amount aforesaid.
SEC. 2950. When a motion for a 
rehearing in the supreme court shall be denied the prevailing party may be
allowed, as costs, attorney's fees not exceeding twenty-five dollars, as the court
shall direct, together with the clerk's fees and necessary disbursements, which
shall be added to the other costs taxed and inserted in the judgment; when
such motion shall be granted the same costs may be allowed, and shall be
directed to abide the event of the action, and be taxed ·against the losing partv 
as a part of the costs in the action. 
SEC. SECTION 2951. The supreme court
ma, in its discretion adjudge to the defendant in error or respondent in any 
writ of error or appeal in any civil action, on atHrmance, damages for his delay
in addition to interest, not exceeding ten per cent. on the amount of the judg­
ment affirmed; and may also in its discretion award to him double costs. 
SEC. 2052. The clerk of the supreme court shall
tax and insert in the entry of judgment, on the application of the prevailing
party, upon four days' notice to the other, in accordance with the order of the
court in respect thereto, the sum of the costs and disbursements as above pro­
vided, together with the damages allowed, if any. The disbursements shall
be stated in detail and verified by affidavit filed. 
SEC. 2953. On request of the party entitled
thereto such clerk shall issue execution for such costs so taxed and damages 
allowed, if any, in the form heretofore used, directed to the sheriff ·of any
county designated by such party; and the sheriff, on receipt thereof, shall levy
and collect the same in the same manner as executions from the circuit court,
and pay over to said clerk his costs and the remainder to the party entitled
thereto, and shall return the execution with his doings thereon to the said
clerk within ninety days from its date. If such execution be returned satisfied
the clerk shall enter satisfaction of the judgment accordingly. Alias execu­
tions may in like manner be issued from time to time until such judgment be
collected.
SEC. 2954. Every officer whose fees are fixed and limited
by law shall publish and set up in some conspicuous place in his office, for the
inspection of all persons who have business in said office, a fair table of such
fees. Every such officer shall, for each day he shall neglect to so publish and
set up the same, forfeit two dollars.
SEC. 2955. No judge, justice, sheriff or
other officer whatever, or other person to whom any fees or compensation shall 
be allowed by law for any service; shall take or receive any other or greater
fee or reward for such service than such as shall be allowed by the laws of
this state. 
SEC. 2956. No fee or compen­
sation allowed by law .shall be demanded or received by any officer or person
for any service unless such service was actually rendered by him, except when
such officer or person is allowed by law to require payment for such service
previous to rendering the same, and except in case of prospective costs allowed
by law. 
SEC. 2957. Every officer or person violating any of the pro­
visions of the two preceding sections shall be liable to the party aggrieved in
the sum of twenty-five dollars damages and also for the actual damages sus­
tained, to be recovered in an action. 
SEC. 2958. Every officer upon receiving any fees
for any official duty or service shall, if required by the person paying the same,
make out in writing and deliver to such person a particular account of such
fees, specifying for what they respectively accrued, and shall receipt the same;
and if he· refuse or nezlect to do so he shall be liable to the party paying the
same for three times tne amount so paid. 
SEC. 2959. When a fee is al­
lowed to one officer the same fee shall be allowed to other officers for the per­
formance of the same services, when such officers are by law authorized to
perform such services. 
SEC. 2960. Upon the settlement of an
execution by a defendant or upon settling any action or demand the sheriff or
attorney claiming any fees which shall not have been taxed shall, upon being
required by the defendant and on his paying the expenses thereof, have his
fees taxed by some proper officer authorized to tax costs in the court in which
the action may be pending or from which the execution shall have been issued. 
SEC. 2961. No sheriff, attorney or
other person shall collect any fees, after having been required as aforesaid to
have the same taxed, without such taxation having been made. 
SEC. 2962. Every officer author­
ized to tax costs in any court for services rendered in any proceeding author­
ized by law shall examine the bills presented to him for taxation, whether
such taxation be opposed or not, and shall be satisfied that the items charged
in such bill are correct and legal, and shall strike out all charges for services
which, in his judgment, were not necessary to be performed. 
SEC. 2963. 
The secretary of state, treasurer and attorney-general, respectively, are author­
ized to require searches in the respective offices of each other and in the offices
of the clerk of the supreme court, of the several circuit courts, of the county
courts or registers of deeds for any papers, records or documents necessary to
the discharge of the duties of their respective offlces, and to require copies
thereof and extracts therefrom without the payment of any fee or charge 
whatever. 
SEC. 2964. No fee shall be charged bv any
officer for administering the oath of office to any public officer, member of the
legislature, or any state, county, city, village or school district officer, or for
any oath required by law to be administered to any elector relative to his right 
to be registered or to vote. 
SEC. 2965. The party in whose favor a 
judgment shall have been given, or the assignee of such judgment, mav _P,ro­
ceed to enforce the same by execution or otherwise in the manner provided
by law. 
SEC. 2966. Where a judgment requires
the payment of money or the delivery of real or personal property the same
may be enforced in those respects by execution as provided by law. · Where it
requires tbe performance of any other act a, certified copy of the judgment may
be served upon the party against whom it is given or the person or officer who 
is required to obey the same, and if he refuse he may be punished by the court
as for a contempt, and his obedience thereto enforced. 
SEC. 2967. There shall be three kinds of exe­
cutions: One against the property of the judgment debtor, another against his
pel'son, and the third for the delivery of the possession of real or personal prop­
erty, or such delivery with damages for withholding the same. They shall be 
deemed the process of the court, and shall be sealed, subscribed and in the form
prescribed by section 2969.
SEC. 2968. Upon any judgment of a. 
court of record which shall have been perfected under the provisions of section 
2894a or any judgment of any other court docketed in any court of record,
execution may be issued at any time within five years after the rendition thereof,
and when any execution shall have been so issued and returned unsatisfied in
whole or in part alias executions may be issued thereon at any time thereafter.
But if no execution shall have been issued thereon within said five years it shall
only be issued thereafter upon leave granted by the court or a judge thereof,
when it shall be made satisfactorily to appear by the affidavit of the party, his
agent or attorney that the judgment or some part thereof remains unsatisfied
and due; but in no case shall an execution be issued on any proceedings had
upon any judgment after twenty years from the time of the rendition thereof. 
SEC. 2969. erty cannot be found, then out of the real property belonging to him on the
dav when the judgment was docketed or at any time thereafter, and shall in
that respect be deemed an execution against property. When a judgment in
replevin or upon appeal from a justice's judgment shall be entered a~ainst the
principal and also against his sureties as provided in section 28S9 or m section
3771, the party or his attorney issuing execution on such judgment shall make
the indorsement thereon as required by said sections respectively. 
7. When the debt for wl..ch judgment is rendered is not all due the execu­
tion mav issue for the collection of such instalments as have become due, and
shall be" in the usual form, but shall have in<lorsed thereon, by the party or
attorney issuing the same, a direction to the sheriff to collect the amount then
due, with interest and costs, stating the amount of each; notwithstanding the
issue and collection of such execution the judgment shall remain as security
for the instalments thereafter to become due, and whenever any further in­
stalments shall become due execution may in like manner be issued for the 
collection of the same.
8. It shall be lawful to direct in every execution upon a judgment for the 
recovery of money, in whole or in part, the collection of interest on the amount
recovered from the date of the rendition thereof until such amount be paid. 
9. When an execution shall be issued upon a judgment against husband and
wife in any action or proceeding in which they shall have been joined as de­
fendants to recover damages for any tort committed by the wife alone it shall
be levied upon and satisfied out of the property and effects of the wife only,
and the attorney, clerk or other officer issuing execution in any such action
shall indorse thereon a direction to the sheriff or other officer to collect the
same from her property and effects only. 
SEC. 2969. The exe­
'cution must be issued from and be sealed with the seal of the court where the
jud9ment roll, or a certified copy thereof, or the original transcript of the jus­ 
tice s judgment is filed, directed to the sheriff, or coroner when the sheriff is
a party or interested, subscribed by the party issuing it or his attornev, and
must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court, the county where
the judgment roll or a certified copy thereof or such transcript is filed, the names 
of the parties, the amount of the judgment, if it be for money, and the amount
actually due thereon, and the time of docketing in the county to which the
execution is issued, and shall require the officer, substantially as follows: 
1. If it be azainst the property of the judgment debtor, to satisfy the judg­
ment out of the personal property of such debtor, and if sufficient personal
property cannot be found, out of the real property belonging to him on the
day when the judgment was docketed in the county or at any time thereafter. 
2. If real estate shall have been at~hed in the manner provided by law in
anv action and judgment shall have been rendered for the plaintiff therein,
the execution issued thereon may also direct a sale of all the interest which
the defendant had in such real estate at the time it was so attached or at any
time thereafter. 
3. If upon a judgment to enforce a lien upon specific real or personal prop­
ertv it may direct a sale of all the interest which the defendant had in such
property at the time such lien attached thereto. 
4. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of personal repre­
sentatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property or trustees to sat­
isfy the judgment out of such property. 
5. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, to arrest such debtor
and commit him to the jail of the county until he shall pay the judgment or be
discharged according to law. · 
6. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, to 
deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the party en­ titled thereto, and may, at the same time, require the officer to satisfy any
costs, damazes or rents and profits recovered by the same judgrneu t out of
the person~ property of the party against whom it was rendered, and the
value of the property for which the judgment was recovered to be specified
therein; if a delivery thereof cannot be had and if sufficient personal prop-
SEC. 2D70. Every execution shall be made return­
able, within sixtv days after its receipt by the olticer, to the clerk with whom
the judgment roll, a certified copy thereof, or the original transcript of a jus­
tice's judgment is filed, but if the officer having such execution shall have
levied upon any property previous to the expiration of said sixty days he may
retain such execution in Lis hands until he shall Lave sold the property so
levied upon in the manner prescribed by law. 
SEC. ~971. When the execution is against
the property of the judgment debtor it may be issued to the sheriff of anv
county where the judgment is docketed. When it requires the delivery of 
real or personal property it mast be issued to the sheriff of the county where
the property or some part thereof is situated. Executions may be issued at 
the same time to different counties. 
SEC. 2972. Upon the receipt of
an v execution the sheriff or other officer shall indorse thereon the year, month,
day and hour of the day when he received the same. 
SEC. 2973. If the action be one in
which the defendant might have been arrested, as provided in chapter 122, an
execution against the person of the judgment debtor may be issued to any 
county within the jurisdiction of the court after the return of an execution
against his property unsatisfied in whole or in part; but if the defendant be
imprisoned on execution in another action, or upon process in the same action,
or shall have been surrendered in exoneration of his bail in such action an exe­
cution may issue against his body in the cases allowed by law without any pre­
vious execution against his property. 
SEC. 2074. When the body of a party shall have been arrested on an exe­
cution issued for that purpose no other execution upon the same judgment
can be issued against liim or his property except in cases specially provided
by law; but if anv person who shall have been arrested on an execution shall
escape he may be retaken by a new execution against his body or an execu­
tion against his property may be issued in the same manner as if the body of
such prisoner had never been taken in execution. 
SEC. 2976. If any per­
son arrested on execution shall die while so charged a new execution may be
issued against his property in the same manner as if he had never been
charged in execution; but such new execution shall not be levied upon any
real estate which the deceased, after the judgment rendered against him, shall
have sold in good faith nor upon any real estate which shall have been actu­
ally sold under any other judgment; against him. 
SEC. 2977. Whenever a judgment shall
be recovered in any court of record against the sheriff of the county, either
singly or with others, instead of directing the execution thereon to the cor­
oner of the county it may be directed and delivered to any person (except a
party in interest in the action) who shall be designated by the court in term
by an order to be entered in the minutes, or by any judge thereof in vacation
by an order to be indorsed on such execution; and such person shall, in re­
spect to such execution, perform the duties of a sheriff and be liable in all
respects to all the provisions of law respecting sheriffs, as far as the same may
be applicable. 
SEC. 2978. After the expiration of
one year from the death of a party against whom a final judgment shall have
been rendered execution thereon may be issued against any property upon
which such judgment shall have been a lien at the time of the death of such 
party, and may be executed in the same manner and with the same effect as
if he were still living; but no such execution shall issue except upon an order,
made upon sufficient cause shown, by the court or judge thereof. If such judg­
ment be against such deceased debtor and others jointly execution may be
issued in the usual manner against such of the judgment debtors as survive,
without delay. 
SEC. 2979. If the party in whose
favor any final judgment shall have been rendered shall die before satisfaction
thereof an execution may be issued by his attorney of record in the action in
the name of such deceased person the same as though he were living, or of an
assignee of such deceased, upon the assignment being filed, or in the name of
his executor or administrator, if there be one, at any time within five years
after the entry of such judgment. Before an execution shall issue in the name
of an executor or administrator such executor or administrator shall file with
the clerk an affidavit of the death of such party, with a copy of bis letters tes­
tamentary or of administration, and the clerk shall attach such papers to the
judgment roll in such action, and enter at the foot of the judgment, in the
judgment book, the fact and the time of the death of such party, the manner
and date of appointment of such executor or administrator. After the expi­
ration of five years from the entry of anv such judgment execution may issue
in like manner in the name of the executor or administrator, on leave of the
court. 
SEC. 2980. When such execution shall be
issued in the name of such deceased party the moneys collected thereon shall 
be paid over to his assignee or to his executors or administrators, if any; but
if there be none then the moneys so collected shall be paid over to the county
judge to be disposed of according to law.
SEC. 2981. If any
sheriff to whom any execution shall be delivered die or be removed from office
before such execution be satisfied, his under-sheriff shall proceed tliereon in
the same manner as the sheriff might have done, and if there be no such under­
sheriff the court from which the execution issued may, on application of the
judgment creditor, appoint some suitable person to proceed on such execution
and complete the same. The person so appointed shall give such securitv as
the court may require and shall have the same power in relation to such exe­
cution as the sheriff. so dying or removed. 
SEC. 2982. No property hereinafter
mentioned shall be liable to seizure or sale on execution or on a~y provisional 
or final process issued from any court or any proceedings in aid thereof, ex­
cept as otherwise specially provided in these statutes: 
1. The family bible. ·
2. Family pictures and school books. . · .• 
3. The library of the debtor and every part thereof; but this provision shall
not be deemed to extend to circulating libraries. 
4. A seat or pew in any house or place of public worship.
5. All wearing apparel of the debtor and his family; all beds, bedsteads 
and bedding kept and used for the debtor and his family; all stoves and ap­ 
pendages put up or kept for the use of the debtor and his family; all cooking
utensils and all other household furniture not herein enumerated, not exceed­
ing two hundred dollars in value; and one gun, rifle or other firearm, not ex-
ceeding fifty dollars in value. . 
6. Two cows, ten swine, one yoke of oxen and one horse or mule, or in lieu
of one yoke of oxen and a horse or mule, two horses or two mules, ten sheep,
and the wool from the same, either in the raw material or manufactured into
yarn or cloth; the necessary food for all the stock mentioned in this section
for one year's support, either provided or growing, or both, as the debtor may
choose; also one wagon, cart or dray, one sleigh, one plow, one draz and other
farming utensils, including tackle for teams, not exceeding two huna'red dollars
in value, • 
7. The provisions for the debtor and his family necessary for one year's sup­
port, either provided or growing, or both, and fuel necessary for one year. 
8. The tools, implements and stock in trade of any mechanic, miner, mer­
chant, trader or other person, used or kept for tho purpose of carrying on his 
trade or business, not exceeding two hundred dollars in value.
9. All sewing machines owned by individuals and kept for the use of them­ 
selves or families.
10. Any sword, plate, books or other articles presented or given to any per­ 
son by congress, the legislature of either of the United States, or by either
body of congress or of such legislature, whether presented by a vote or raised
by subscription of the members of either of the aforesaid bodies. 
11. Printing materials and press oq>resses used in the business of any printer
or publisher to an amount not exceeding fifteen hundred dollars in va1ue; pro­
vided, that no sum exceeding four hundred dollars shall be exempt from exeea­
tion for payment of wages of laborers or servants for services rendered the
defendant. 
12. The uniform, arms and equipments of every member of the Wisoonsia
national guard, and all military property of any company, regiment or brigade 
thereof.
13. All books, maps, plats and other papers kept or used by any person for 
the purpose of making abstracts of title to land.
, 14. The interest owned by any inventor in any invention secured to him by 
letters patent of the United States.
15. Tho earnings of any person or persons having a family dependent upon 
him or them for support at the time of the commencement of proceedings for
the collection of the debt, including the earnings of any minor child or chfidren
whose earnings contribute to the support of such family, for three months next
preceding the issue of any writ of attachment, execution, garnishment or the
institution of proceedings supplementary to execution, to the amount of sixty
dollars only for each month in which such earnings are made or earned; pro­
vided, they shall not exceed one hundred and eighty dollars in all for said time,
including such part or share thereof bad, by or paid to the debtor during such
three months. The garnishee shall recover costs when the debt or property
sought to be reached is exempt from execution against the principal debtor at
the time of serving the process on the gamishee. 
16. All fire-engines, apparatus and equipments, including hose, hose carts
and hooks and ladders, belonging to or which may hereafter belong to any 
town, city or village. in this state, and which are or may be kept and used for
the protection of property in such town, city or village from fire, together with
the engine-houses and hooks and ladder houses for the protection of the same,
and the lot or Jots on which such engine and _hook and ladder houses may be
situated, when owned by any such town, city or villafl<7e; and any lot or lots
owned, used and occupied by any such town, city or vi lage for corporate pur­
poses. 
17. All moneys arising from insurance of any property exempted from sale
on execution, including the homestead, when such property has been destroyed 
by fire. ·
18. All private property shall be exempt from seizure and sale upon any 
execution or other process issued to enforce any judgment or decree of any
court which shall have been rendered against any county, town, city, village 
or school district in this state, 
rn. All moneys arising on any policy of insurance on the life of a minor,
payable to his father or mother, or both, shall be exempt against the creditors
of such father or mother, but not against the creditors of such minor; all mon­
eys arising under any policy of insurance payable to a married woman or to
any person in trust for her or her benefit shall be exempt from the claims of
her husband and of the person effecting or assigning such insurance for her bene­
fit and from the claims of their respective representatives and creditors, subject 
to the provisions of section 2347; and all moneys or other benefit, charity, re­
lief or aid to be paid, provided or rendered by any mutual beneficiary or fra­
ternal corporation, society, order or association providing insurance on the
assessment plan and authorized to do business in this state, shall be exempt
against the oeeditors of a member thereof or of his beneficiary or beneficiaries
to the amount of five thousand dollars in all cases where the insured pays the
premiums or assessments or any part thereof; but if some other person pavs
such premiums or assessments the insurance shall be absolutely exempt. • 
20. Cemetery lots owned by individuals and all monuments therein, the
coffins and other articles for the burial of any dead person, and the tombstone
or monument for his grave by whomsoever purchased. 
21. All money paid or ordered to be paid to any member of any fire or po­
lice department or to the widow or guardian of the minor child or children of 
a deceased or retired member of any such department, which money has been
paid or ordered to be paid to any such person as a pension on account of the
service of any person in any such department in any city in this state whose
population exceeds one hundred thousand. 
22. The shares held by a member of a local building and loan association, as
the same is defined in section 2009, to the value of one thousand dollars at the
time of the withdrawal thereof; but this subdivision shall not apply to any
person owning a homestead which is exempt. 
The exemptions provided for iri subdivisions three, six, seven, eight, nine,
eleven, thirteen, fourteen, seventeen and nineteen of this section shall extend
only to debtors having an actual residence in this state, and when such debtors
and their families or any of them shall be removing from one place of residence
to another, and those granted in subdivisions five, six, eleven, thirteen, fourteen,
fifteen, seventeen and nineteen hereof shall not be claimed as against an at­
tachment or execution issued upon a judgment for the plaintiff m an action
brought to recover compensation for any manual or domestic labor rendered
or performed by any female in or about the dwelling of another. No prop­
erty exempted by the provisions of this section shall be exempt from execu­
tion or attachment brought by any person for the recornry of the whole or
any part of the purchase-money of the same property. All articles so exempted 
may be selected by the debtor, his agent, clerk or legal representative, when
necessary to distinguish the same; and if they shall fail or neglect to claim
such exemption the debtor's wife, unless she shall have deserted him, may, be­ 
fore sale, select the same and in her own name maintain -an action for the re­
oovery of the possession, or the value thereof if the same shall have been taken
away; provided the claim of exemption and selection have been made. 
SEC. 2982a. Whenever personal property shall be seized
on attachment or execution a.id any part thereof shall be exempt from such
seizure under any provision of law exempting to the debtor property of liko
kind to a specific amount in value and such exemption shall be claimed on the
part of the debtor or his wife the officer making such seizure shall, upon re­
quest by either of them, or may upon his own motion, cause said exempt prop­
erty to be appraised by two disinterested freeholders of tbe county, who shall
first be sworn by him to make a true appraisement thereof, which appraise­
ment shall be in writing, be signed by the appraisers and be prima facio evi­
dence of the value of the property appraised for the purpose of such exemp­
tion. The appraisement so signed, together with a true inventory of all the
property seized, shall be returned with the writ. The fees of each of such ap­
praisers shall be one dollar for each day actually engaged in such appraise­
ment, and shall be paid by the officer and returned as a disbursement on bis 
writ.
SEC. 2983. A homestead, to be selected by
the owner thereof, consisting, when not included in any city or village, of any
quantity of land not exceeding forty acres, used for agricultural purposes, and
when included in any city or village, of any quantity of land not exceeding one­
fourth of an acre and the dwelling-house thereon and its appurtenances, owned
and occupied by any resident of this state, shall be exempt from seizure or sale
on execution, from the lien of every judgment and from liability in any form
for the debts of such owner, except laborers', mechanics' and purchase-money 
· liens, and mortgages lawfully executed, and taxes lawfully assessed, and ex- 
cept as otherwise specially provided in these statutes: and such exemption
shall not be impaired by temporary removal, with the intention to re-occupy
the same as a homestead, rror by a sale thereof, but shall extend to the pro­
ceeds derived from such sale while held with the intention to procure another
homestead therewith, for a period not exceeding two years. Such exemption
shall extend to land not exceeding altogether the amount aforesaid, owned by
a husband and wife jointly or in common, and to the interest therein of a
tenant in common or two or more tenants in common, having a homestead
thereon, with the consent, expressed or implied, of the co-tenants, and to any
estate less than a fee held by any person by lease or otherwise. 
SEC. 2984. Whenever a levy
shalI be made upon the lands of any person such person may notify the officer
making such levy, at any time before the sale thereof, that he claims a home­
stead in such lands, giving a description thereof, and the remainder alone shall 
be subject to sale under such levy unless the plaintiff in the execution shall
deny the right to such homestead or be dissatisfied with the quantity of land
so selected, in w hich latter case the officer making such levy shall cause the
same to be surveyed, beginning at a point to be designated by the owner, and
set off in a compact form, including the dwelling-house and its af purtena.nces,
the amount specified iu the preceding section. The expenses o such survey
shall be collected on tbe execution, if it shall appear that the owner claimed 
as his homestead more land than he was entitled to; otherwise such expenses
shall be borne by the person directing the same. If such survev be made, the
remainder not included in such survey shall be subject to sale under such levy.
But if any such person shall neglect or refuse to select his homestead and notify
such officer as aforesaid such officer shall, upon request by the plaintiff and may
without such ,request, give notice to such person tbat at a time and place to be
therein named he will proceed to survey and locate the same; and unless such
person shall, on or before the time so fixed, select such homestead, such officer
shall proceed to survey and locate the same in the manner provided in this section for the survey of a. homestead when the plaintiff is dissatisfied with
that selected by the defendant, except that the officer shall, if the owner
neglects or refuses to do so, select the starting point of such survey. A home­
stead so selected and set apart shall be taken and considered to be the homestead
of such person to all intents and purposes. The costs of such notice and survey
shall be oollected upon the execution. A failure of the officer to set apart such
homestead shall not invalidate or affect such levy, except as to such homestead,
nor shall the failure, neglect or refusal of such "'person to select his homestead
forfeit or impair; his riglit thereto, but only his right to select the same, when
such selection shall be lawfully made by such officer in the manner hereinbefore
provided. 
SEC. 2985. Personal property shall be
bound from the time it is seized in execution. 
SEC. 2986. If in any case where an
officer has an execution against property there is any reasonable doubt as to
the ownership of the property or as to its liability to be taken on the execu­
tion the officer may require sufficient security to indemnify him for levying
upon snob property. 
SEC.  2987. Upon executions
against property the officer shall levy upon any current money of the United 
States and shall pay and return the same as so much money collected without
exposing the same for sale, and he may also levy upon and sell any bills or
other evidences of debt issued by any moneyed corporation and circulated as
money, or a bond or other instrument for the payment of money which was
executed and issued by any person, government, state, municipal or other cor­
poration and is in terms negotiable or payable to the bearer or holder. 
SEC. 2988. When goods and chattels shall be pledged or mortgaged for the payment 
of monev or the performance of any contract or agreement the right and in­
terest in such goods of the person making such pledge or mortgage may be
sold on execution against him, and the purchaser shall acquire all his right and
interest, and shall be entitled to the possession of such goods and chattels on
complying with the terms and conditions of the pledge or mortgage; but the
officer shall not take such property out of the possession of the pledgee or
mortgagee when the judgment debtor is not entitled to the possession thereof
unless the judgment creditor or purchaser shall have first complied with the
terms and conditions of such pledge or mortgage.
SEC. 2989. Any share or interest of a
stockholder in any bank doing business in this state, whether organized under
the laws of the United States or this state, or other stock corporation which
shall have been organized under the laws of this state may be levied upon by 
leaving a copy of the execution with the clerk, treasurer or cashier of the bank
or other corporation, if there be any such officer; otherwise with any officer
or person who has at the time the custody of the books and papers of such·
bank or corporation. The officer having such execution may demand of any 
. such officer or person a certificate of the number of shares or the amount of the
interest held by the judgment debtor in such bank or other corporation, and
such officer or person shall give such certificate, and if he shall unreasonably
refuse so to do or wilfully ~ve a false certificate shall be liable for double the
amolJilt of all damages occasioned thereby, to be recovered in an action by the
judgment creditor, unless the judgment be satisfied by the original debtor. 
SEC. 2990. Any share or interest so levied
upon, with all the dividends that shall thereafter accrue thereon, shall be held
and sold to satisfy the judgment in like manner as other property, and the 
officer making such sale shall execute and deliver to the purchaser duplicate
certificates, stating the name of such purchaser and the interest or number of
shares by him purchased. Upon such purchaser delivering one of such dupli­
cate certificates to the clerk, treasurer, cashier or other managing officer of
such bank or corporation the proper officer thereof shall at onoe transfer to
such purchaser the interest or shares so purchased upon the books of such bank
or corporation or otherwise as may be in accordance with the rules or by-laws
thereof. 
SEC. 2991. No sale of any
goods or chattels shall be made by virtue of any execution unless previous
notice of such sale shall have been given twenty days successively by fasten­
ing up written or printed notices thereof in three public places of the town
where such sale is to be had, specifying the time and place where the same is
intended to be had. Every such ~ale shall be made at public vendue between
the hour of nine o'clock in the forenoon and the setting of the sun, and no
such property shall be exposed for sale unless the same be present and in view
of those attending the sale, except in the case of the sale of the interest of the 
judgment debtor in property in the possession of a pledgee or mortgagee or 
shares in a bank or corporation. It shall be offered for sale in such lots and
parcels as shall be calculated to bring the highest price. 
SEC. 2992. Lands, tenements and real es­
tate holden by any one in trust or for the use of another shall be liable to
debts, judgments, executions and attachments against the person to whose use
they are holden, 
SEC. 2993. The time and place of holding
any sale of real estate pursuant to any execution shall be publicly advertised
previously for six weeks successively as follows: 
1. A written notice thereof, describing the real estate to be sold by setting
forth the name of the township or tract and the number of the lot if there be
any, and if there be none, by some other appropriate description, shall be
fastened up in three public places in the town where such real estate shall
be sold; and if such sale be in a town different from that in which the prem­
ises to be sold are situated then such notice shall be fastened up in three pub­
lic places of the town in. which the premises are situated. 
2. A copy of such notice shall be printed once in each week in a newspaper
of such county if there be one. 
3. If there be no newspaper published in such county and the premises to
be sold are not occupied by any person against whom the execution is issued
or by some person 'holding the same as tenant or purchaser under suoh person,
then such notice shall be published in a paper printed at the seat of govern­
ment once in each week. 
SEC. 2994. Every sale of real estate by virtue oJ
any execution shall be at public vendue, between the hour of nine o'clock in
the forenoon and the setting of the sun. 
SEC. 2995. When real estate offered for sale by vir­
tue of any execution shall consist of several known lots, tracts or parcels such
lots, tracts or parcels shall be separately exposed for sale; and if any person
claiming to be the owner of any portion of such estate, or of such lots, tracts
or parcels of them or either of them, or claiming to be entitled by law to re­
deem any such portion shall require such portion to be exposed for sale sepa­
rately, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to expose the same for sale accordingly.
No more of anv real estate shall be exposed for sale than shall appear neces­ 
sary to satisfy the execution.
SEC. 2996. Any officer who
shall sell any real estate upon execution without having given the previous 
notices above directed, or otherwise than in the manner above prescribed,
shall be liable to the party injured in the sum of one thousand dollars damages
and also for the actual damages sustained, to be recovered in an action. 
SEC. 2997. If any person shall take down or de­
face any notice of a sale upon execution of real or personal property put up by
any officer, previous to the day of sale therein specified, unless upon satisfao­
·tion of the execution by virtue of which such notice shall have been given or
upon the consent of the party suing out such execution and of the defendant
therein, such person shall be liable to the party in whose favor such execution 
was issued in the sum of fifty dollars, to be recovered in an action.
SEC. 2998. The omission of any sheriff
or other officer to give the notice of sale herein required or the taking down
or defacing of any such notice when put up shall not affect the validity of any
sale made to a purchaser in good faith, without notice of any such omission
or offense. 
SEC. 2999. The sheriff or other officer to 
whom any execution shall be directed and the deputy of such sheriff or officer
holding any execution and conducting any sale of property in pursuance thereof
shall not, directly or indirectly, purchase any property whatever at any sale
by virtue of such execution; and every purchase made by such sheriff, officer, 
deputy, or to his use, shall be void.
SEC. 3000. Upon the sale of real estate by virtue
of any execution the officer making the same shall make out and subscribe
duplicate certificates of such sale containing: 
1. A particular description of the premises sold. 
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel. 
3. The whole consideration money paid. 
4. The time when such sale will become absolute and the purchaser will be
entitled to a conveyance pursuant to law. . 
One of the said duplicate certificates shall, within ten days after such sale,
be filed in the office of the register of deeds of the county and the other shall 
be delivered to the purchaser. If there be two or more purchasers a certifi­
cate shall be delivered to each, 
SEC. 3001. Within one year from the time 
when such sale shall have been made the real estate so sold or any distinct lot,
tract or portion thatmay have been separately sold may be redeemed by the
payment to the purchaser, his personal representatives or assigns, or to the
then sheriff of the county where such real estate is situated, for the use of such
purchaser, of the sum of money which was bid on the sale of such lot or tract,
together with the interest on that sum from the time of the sale at the rate of
six per cent. a year. 
SEC.  3002. Such redemption may be made: 
1. Bv a person against whom the execution was issued and whose right and title was sold in pursuance thereof; or, . . 
2. If such person be dead by his devisee of the premises sold, if the same
shall ha ve been devised, and if the same shall not have been devised, by the
heirs of such person; or, 
• 3. By any grantee of such person who shall have acquired an absolute title
by deed, sale under mortgage or under an execution, or by any other means
to the premises sold, or to any lot, tract, parcel or portion whioh shall have
been separately sold. 
SEC. 3003. Any heir
or devisee of the person against whom the execution was issued and any grantee
of such person who shall nave acquired an absolute title to a portion of the. 
estate sold or a portion of any lot, tract or parcel that shall have been sepa­
rately sold, may redeem the lot, tract or parcel so sold on the same terms and
in the same manner as if he were grantee of the whole lot, tract or parcel, and
shall have the same remedy to enforce contributions from those who shall own
the residue of such tract, lot or parcel as if the sum required to be paid by
him to effect such redemption had been collected by a sale of the portion be­
longing to such grantee, heir or devisee, 
SEC. 3004. If there be several persons having undivided shares as joint tenants or
as tenants in common in the premises so1d or in any particular lot or tract sold
each person having such title may redeem the share or interest belonging to
him by paying to the purchaser or officer, as herein direc_ted, a sum that will 
bear the same proportion to the whole purchase-money bid for such premises
or for such particular lot or tract as the share proposed to be redeemed bears
to the whole number of shares in such premises, or lot or tract, together with
the interest on such sum at the rate of ten per cent. a year. 
SEC. 3005. Upon such payment beinz
made by any person so entitled to redeem any real estate so sold, the sale of 
the premises so redeemed and the certificates of such sale, so far as they relate
thereto, shall be null and void. 
SEC. 8006. In case the
persons entitled, as he:reinbefore provided, shall omit to redeem the premises so 
sold or any part of them within the year above prescribed then the interest
vested in the purchaser by such sale may be acquired within three months
after the expiration of such year by the persons and on the terms hereinafter
prescribed. 
SEC. 3007. Any creditor of the
person against whom such execution issued having, in his own name, or as as.
signee, representative, trustee or otherwise, a judgment rendered or a mort­
gage duly recorded, at any time before the expiration of fifteen months from
the time of such sale and which shall be a lien and charge upon the premises·
sold, by paying the sum of money which was paid on the sale of such premi~es,
together with mterest thereon at the rate of ten per oent. a year from the time 
of such sale, shall thereby acquire all the rights of the original purchaser, sub­
ject to be defeated in the manner hereinafter mentioned.
SEC. 8008. If such judgment or
mortgage be a lien on any lot, tract or parcel that shall have been separately
sold or on a speoifio Portion of any such lot, tract or parcel the creditor hav­ 
ing the same, by paymg as before :provided the sum which shall have been bid
for such lot, tract or parcel, with interest as above mentioned, shall thereby
acquire all the rights of the original purchaser, subject to be defeated in the
manner hereinafter mentioned. 
SEC. 3009. Any such cred­
itor, having such judgment or mortgage which is a lien upon any undivided
share or interest in any real estate sold under any execution, may, within the
same time, on the same terms and in the same manner, acquire the title of the
original purchaser to such share or interest by paying such part of the whole
purchase-money of such real estate as shall be m a just proportion to the
amount of such share or interest.
SEC. 3010. Whenever any such creditor shall have acquired the title of the original
purchaser, pursuant to the foregoing provisions, any other creditor who might
have acquired such title according to the said provisions may become a pur­
~haser t~e~eof from \he first creditor who acquired the same upon the follow­ 
ing conditions:
1. By reimbursing to such first creditor, his personal representatives or as­ 
signs the sum which may have been paid by him to acquire such title, together 
with interest thereon at the rate of ten per cent. a year from the time of such
payment to the time of such reimbursement. 
2. If the judgment or mortgage by virtue of which the first creditor acquired
the title of the original purchaser be prior to the judgment or mortgage of 
such second creditor, then such second creditor shall also pay to such first cred­
itor the amount due on his judgment or mortgage. 
3. But if such judgment or mortgage of the first creditor, at the time of
his acquiring the title of the original purchaser, shall have ceased to be a lien
as against such second creditor, it shall not. be necessary to pay the amount 
thereof. 
SEC. 3011. In the same manner any third or other creditor who
might, according to the foregoing provisions, acquire the title of the original
purchaser may become a purchaser thereof from the second, third or other
creditor who may have become such purchaser from any other creditor, upon
the same terms and conditions specified in the last section. 
SEC. 3012. If the original
purchaser of any premises so sold shall also be a creditor of the defendant
against whom the execution issued, and as such mizht acquire the title of
any purchaser according to the preceding provisions, he may avail himself of
his judgment or mortgage, in the same manner and on the same terms herein
prescribed, to acquire the title which any creditor may have obtained. 
SEC. 3013. The judgment creditor, 
under whose execution any real estate shall have been sold, shall not be au­
thorized to acquire the title of the original purchaser or of any creditor to the
premises so sold by virtue of the judgment on which such execution issued;
but if he have any other judgment or mortgage which would entitle him to
acquire such title according to the preceding provisions he may avail himself
of such other judgment or mortgage in the same manner and on the same terms
as any other creditor. 
SEC. S:e:OI'IoN 8014. The sums so required to be paid to a~uire the title of the original purchaser or to become a purchaser from any creditor may
be pa.id to such purchaser or oreditor, his representative or assigns or to the
then sheriff of the oountv where the real estate is situated for the use of the
purchaser or creditor entitled to the same; upon such payment being made the title of the original purchaser shall be thereby transferred to the creditor ac­
quiring the same, pursuant to the foregoing provisions, and from such creditor
~ any other creditor becoming a purchaser thereof, as hereinbefore provided. 
SEC. 8015.
To entitle any creditor to acquire the title of the original purchaser or to be­
come a purchaser from any other creditor he shall exhibit to such purchaser
or creditor or to the sheriff the following evidences of his right: 
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment, duly certified by the clerk of the
court of the county in which the same is docketed, or of the mortgage, duly
certified by the register of deeds of the county where the same is made. 
2. A copy of all assignments of such judgment or mortgage which are nec-
essary to establish his claim, verified by his affidavit or the affidavit of some
witness to such assiznment. 
3. A copy of the letters of administration or letters testamentary, when an 
administrator or executor applies to. be substituted as a purchaser.
4. An affidavit of such creditor or his assignee, representative or attorney, 
or agent stating the true sum due on such judgment or the true sum due or
to become due on such mortgage at the time of claiming such right to pur­
chase, over and above all payments. Within three days after making such
redemption or purchase such creditor shall file such evidences of bis right in
the office of the register of deeds of the county where the original certificate
of sale is filed. 
SEC. 3016. The right and title of the person
against whom the execution was issued, to any real estate which shall be sold
thereby, shall not be divested by such sale until the expiration of fifteen months
from the time of such sale; and if such real estate shall not have been redeemed 
as herein provided and a deed shall be executed in pursuance of a sale the
grantee in such deed shall be deemed vested with the legal estate from the
time of the sale on such execution, for the purpose of maintaining an action 
for an injury to such real estate. 
SEC. 3017. If 
after the expiration of fifteen months from the time of the sale of any real es­ 
tate upon execution any part of the premises sold shall remain unredeemed
by the judgment debtor or by any other person entitled by law to redeem the 
.same, within one year from the time of such sale, the then sheriff of the county
in which such real estate is situated shall, on demand, complete such sale by
executing a proper conveyance of the premises se remaining unredeemed to
the person or persons entitled thereto, which conveyance shall be valid and
effectual to convey all the right, title and interest which was sold upon such
execution. If any part of said premises remains unredeemed by a cr~ditor
the same shall be conveyed to the purchaser upon such sale or to his assignee,
in case he shall have assigned the certificate of sale; and if said premises or
any part or parts thereof shall have been redeemed by a creditor the premises
so redeemed shall be conveved to the last creditor redeeming the same or to 
his assignee, in case he shall have assigned his right thereto. But no such deed
shall be issued after twenty years from the date of the sale of the land. 
SEC. 8018. In case
the person who, bv the provisions of the preceding sections, would be entitled
to a convevance of any real estate sold by virtue of an execution shall die pre­
vious to tlie delivery of such conveyance the sheriff shall execute and deliver
such conveyance to the executors or administrators of the person so deceased.
The real estate so convevcd shall be held in trust for the use of the heirs of
such deceased person, subject to the dower of his widow, if there be any, but
may be sold for the payment of his debts in the same manner as lands whereof
such deceased person died seized. 
SEC. 8019. If the purchaser of any real 
estate sold by virtue of an execution, his heirs or assigns shall be evicted from
the possession of such real estate, or if in an action for the recovery thereof
judgment shall be rendered against him in consequence: 
1. Of any irregularity in the proceedings concerning snoh sale; or 
2. Of the judgment upon w hich such execution issued being vacated or re­ 
versed;
Such purchaser, his heirs or assigns may recover of the party for whose ben­ 
efit such real estate was sold the amount paid on the purchase thereof, with
interest. 
SEC. 3020. The party for whose
benefit such real estate was sold and his personal representatives, upon such
recovery being had against him in consequence of any irregalarity in the pro­
ceedings concerning such sale, may have further execution upon the judgment
by virtue of which such sale was made, to levy the sum paid on such sale, with
interest; and such judgment shall be deemed valid and effectual for that pur­
pcse against the defendant therein, his personal representatives, heirs and dev­ 
rsees ; bat not against any purchaser in good faith or any incumbrancer by
mortgage, judgment or otherwise whose title or whose moumbrances shall
have accrued before the levy of such execution. 
SEC. 3021. When
Iands and tenements in the bands of. several persons shall be liable to satisfy
any Judgment and the whole of such Judgment or more than a due proportion 
thereof shall be levied upon the lands of any one or more of such persons the
persons so aggrieved or their personal representatives may compel a just and 
aqual oontribution by all the persons whose lands and tenements ought to eon­
tribute to the satisfaction of such judgment. 
SEC. 3022. Such lands and tenements shall
be liable to such contribution in the following order: 
1. If they were conveyed by the defendant in the execution, they shall be
liable in succession, commencing with the lands last .couveyed. 
2. If they were sold under execution against the defendant, they shall also
be liable in succession, oommencing with the lands sold under the last and
youngest judgment. 
8. If there "be lands so liable, which were oonveyed by the defendant in exe­
cution, and also lands which have been sold under execution against such de­
fendant, they will respectively be liable in succession, according to the order
herein prescribed. 
SEC. 8023. If an action be
brought to compel such contribution the court in which such action is brought
shall, in a proper case, permit the plaintiff to use the original judgment and
issue execution thereon, to levy the amount which ought to be oontributed by
the lands subject to the lien of such judgment, and for that purpose such orig­
inal judgment shall remain a lien upon such lands, when preserved as provided
in the next section, for the term of ten years from the date of the rendition
or entry thereof, to the extent of the sum which ought to be so oontriboted,
notwithstanding such sum or any part thereof may have been paid bv the
party seeking such contribution; but in all cases such liens shall continue for
the purposes above stated to the end of three full years after any levy and
sale under which oontribution is claimed. 
SEC. 8024. In order to preserve
the lien of the original judgment upon such lands and subject them to sale on
execution the person aggrieved shall, within twenty days after the payment
of any sum of money for which he shall claim a contribution, file an affidavit
with the clerk of the court in which the original judgment was rendered, stat­
ing the sum paid and his claim to use sucli judgment for the reimbursement
thereof; and on filing such affidavit the clerk shall make an entry in the mar­
gin of the docket of such judgment, stating the sum so paid and that such
Judgment is claimed to be a lien to that amount. If it be desired to preserve
such lien upon property situated in some other county than the one in which
the original judgment was rendered a similar affidavit and notice must be filed
with the clerk of the court and a like entrv be upon the docket of such judO'- 
ment in such county. The clerk's fee therefor shall be one dollar. 
SEC. 3025. Whenever a title shall have been per­
fected in any person to any real estate sold by virtue of an execution, or to 
any part thereof or interest therein, and the person against whom such exe­
cution issued or any other person claiming under himby title accruing sub­
sequently to the docketing of the judgment upon which it issued shall be in
possession of any such real estate or part thereof or interest therein, and upon
demand of the person, his agent or attorney, in whom such title shall have
been perfected, shall refuse to surrender the possession thereof to him he may
apply to the court from which the execution issued or the presiding judge
thereof, by petition, duly verified, setting fo~th the facts, for a writ of assist. 
ance to remove such person from the1ossess10n of such real estate and to de­
liver the possession thereof to him. copy of such petition, with a notice of
the time and place when and where the same will be presented, must be served
upon the person against whom the writ is prayed for at least ten days before
tlie same is presented; such petition may be served as a summons in an action
in the circuit court. The court or such judge may direct such writ to issue,
and the same shall be executed and return made in like manner as upon a sale
made upon a judgment for foreclosure of a mortgage. 
SEC. 8026. When any judg­
ment debtor or person claiming under him shall have redeemed, as hereinbe­
fore provided, the knds or any pa.rt thereof or interest therein so sold the
person or officer to whom the redemption money shall have been paid shall
execute, acknowledge and deliver to the person so redeeming a certificate, at­
tested by two witn~es, stating the faot of such redemption, the date thereof,
the amount of money paid, with a description of the lands or interests therein
so redeemed. Sucb certificates so acknowledged may be recorded in the office
of the register of de-eds of the county in whicli the lands so redeemed are situ·
ated, and shall be presumptive evidence of the redemption of the lands therein
described from suob sale and from the lien of the judgment by virtue of whioh 
such sale was made
SEC. 8027. All sales of real estate heretofore made, by vir­
tue of any exeoutioa, shall be redeemed, and when not redeemed be conveyed
within the time an,:\ in the manner heretofore prescribed by law. 
SEC. 8028. After
the issuing of execution against property anyferson indebted to the judgment 
debtor may pay to the sfieriff the amount o his debt or so much thereof as
shall be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff's reoeipt shall be a
sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.
SEC. 3029. When­
ever any execution against the property of any judgment debtor shall have
been issued upon aJ'udgment for the payment of money and shall have been
returned unsatisfie in whole or in part theJ"udgment creditor may commence
an action against such judgment debtor an any other person to compel the
discovery of any property or thing in action belonging to such judgment debtor
and of any property, money or thing in action due or held in trust for him,
and to pre\'en t the transfer of any such property, money or other thing in
action, or the payment or delivery thereof to such judgment debtor, except
where such trust has been created by or the fond so held in trust has proceeded
from some person other than the defendant himself.
SEC. 8030. 
When an execution against property of the judgment debtor or any one of
several debtors in the same judgment is issued to the sheriff of the oounty
where he resides, or if he do not reside iii the state to the sheriff of a oounty
where a judgment roll, a certified copy thereof or a transcript of a justice's
judgment is filed, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part the judgment
creditor, at any time after such return is made, is entitled to an order froDJ
the judge of the court, a county judge or a court commissioner of the county
to which the execution was issued requiring such judgment debtor to appea1
before him and answer concerning his property at a time and place specified
in the order, within the county in which the execution was issued; provided,
that if an execution has been issued and returned unsatisfied in whole or in
part within five years previous to the issuing of such order nothing herein shall
be construed to require the judgment creditor to issue more than one execu­
tion in order to entitle him at any time during the life of the judgment to the
remedy provided by this section. The fact that garnishee proceedings may
have been commenced in aid of or that property has been levied on under a
second execution issued upon the judgment, after the first execution has been
returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, shall not be a bar to proceedings
under this section during the existence of such levy or the pendency of such
garnishee action; but if 1t is made to appear to the satisfaction of the officer
before whom such proceedings are pending that the property so levied on or
garnished will be sufficient to satisfy such Judgment in full, with all costs, then
the proceedings herein provided for may, in his discretion, be dismissed or ad­
journed to a time after the sale under such execution or the termination of
such garnishee proceedings. 
SEC. 3031. After the issuing of an execu­
tion against property and before the return thereof upon proof by affidavit,
to the satisfaction of a judge of the court, or a county judge or court com­
missioner of the county to which the execution was issued, that any judgment
debtor residing in the county where such judge resides has property which 
he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, whether
. subject to execution or not, such judge may make an order requiring the judg­ 
ment debtor to appear at a specified time and place to answer concerning the
same. The court may make such order concerning such property as shall be
proper. 
SEC. 3032. Instead of making
an order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, as provided in the
two preceding sections, the Judge, upon proof by affidavit, to his satisfaction,
that there is danger of the Judgment debtor's leaving the state or concealing
himself and that there is reason to believe that he has property which he un­
justly refuses to apply to such judgment, may issue a warrant requiring the
sheriff of any county where such debtor may be to arrest him and bring him
before such judge to answer concerning his property. 
SEC. 3083.
Upon his appearing or being brought before the judge such judgment debtor
may be examined on oath and witnesses may be required to appear and testify 
on the part of either party in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.
The judge, in his discretion, may appoint a referee to take and report such
examinations, and require the judgment debtor and witnesses, or any of them,
to attend and be examined before him. No person shall, on such examina­
tion, be excused from answering any question on the ground that his examina- 
tion or answer will tend to convict him of the commission of a fraud, but his 
answer shall not be used as evidence against him in any criminal action or pro­
ceeding.
SEC. 3034. If it shall ap~ear upon or
pending any such examination that there is danger of the debtor s leaving the
state and that he has property which he has unjustly refused to apply to such
judgment he may be ordered to enter into an undertaking, with one or more
sureties, that he will from time to time attend before the judge, as he shall 
direct, and that he will not; during the pendency of the proceedings, disrose
of any portion of his p~rty not exempt from execution. In default o en­ 
tering into such unde ing he may be committed to prison, by warrant of
the judge, as for a contempt. 
SEC. 3035. The judge. may
order any property of the judgment debtor in the hands either of himself or
any other person or due to the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution,
to be apphed toward the satisfaction of the judgment; but if it appear that
any person alleged to have property of the judgment debtor or to be indebted
to him claims an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt,
such interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an action against such person
by the receiver; but the judge may by order forbid a transfer or other dis­
position of such property or interest till a sufficient opportunity be given to
the receiver to commence the action and prosecute the same to judgment and
execution, and may modify or dissolve such order at any time on such security
as he shall direct. 
SEC. 3036. Before appointing
any receiver the judge shall ascertain, if practicable, by oath of the party or 
otherwise whether any other supplementary proceedings are pending against
the judgment debtor, and if there be any, the plaintiff therein shall have notice
to appear before him, and shall likewise have notice of all subsequent proceed­
ings in relation to such receivership, and no more than one such receiver shall
be appointed. The judge may also, at any time, by order, forbid any transfer
or other disposition of, or interference with, the property of the judgment
debtor not exempt from execution. 
SEC. 3037. If any person, party or
witness shall disobey an order of the judge or referee, duly served, he may be
punished by the judge as for a contempt; and in all cases of commitment under
this chapter the person committed may, in case of inability to perform the act
required or to endure the imprisonment, be discharged by the judge commit­
ting him or the court in which the judgment was rendered, on such terms as
may be just. 
SEC. 3038. The judge may allow to the judgment
creditor or td any party so examined, whether a party to the action or not,
witness' fees and disbursements and a fixed sum, in addition, not exceeding
twenty-five dollars, as costs, and require their payment by order. 
SEC. 8039. The time within which a writ of error may
be issued or an appeal taken to obtain a review by the supreme court of .any
judgment or order in any civil action or special proceeding in a court of rec­
ord is limited to two years from the date of the entry of such judgment or
order, except as hereinafter provided, and except that if the person against
whom a judgment is rendered is, at the time of the rendition thereof, either
under the age of twenty-one years, or insane or imprisoned on any criminal
sentence for less than for life, the time during which such disability shall con-
tinue, not, however, exceeding ten years of disability, shall not be reckoned a
part of said two years. 
SEC. 3040. No discon­
tinuance or dismissal of a writ of error or an appeal shall preclude the party
from suing out another writ of error or taking another appeal in the same
cause within the time limited by law, except when dismissed by the court for
want of prosecution. 
SEC. 3041. The time within which an
appeal may be taken from so much of a judgment of divorce as dissolves the
marriage bond or so much of a judgment as annuls a marriage is limited to 
six months from the date of the entry of such judgment, except in cases where 
the defendant does not appear, and was not served with the summons, and did
not actually receive a copy of the summons or complaint by mail or otherwise, 
before judgment. 
SEC. 8042. The time within which an appeal
may be taken directly from an order is further limited to thirty days from
the date of the service by either party upon the other of a copy of such order,
with a written notice of the entry of the same.
SEC. 8043. Writs of error may issue of course
out of the supreme court, in vacation as well as in term, returnable to that
court, to review the order or judgment of any court discharging or remanding
a person brought before it by writ of habeas oorpus, or an order or judgment
reversing or affirming the order of any judge or court commissioner discharg­
ing or remanding a person thus brought before him, and to review final judg­
ments in actions triable by jury, except actions for divorce. The proceedings
and judgment upon such writs shall be according to the course of the common
law and the rules and practice of the supreme court, except as modified by
this chapter. 
SEC. 3044. No writ of error shall be effect­
ual for any purpose unless the plaintiff in error shall, at or before the time of
filing the return thereof, file in the office of the clerk of the supreme court a
bond executed on his part to the defendant in error, by at least two sureties,
in the sum of at least two hundred and fifty dollars, conditioned that the
plaintiff in error will pay all costs and damages which may be awarded against
him on the writ of error, or shall deposit that sum of money with such clerk
to abide the event of such writ, or file the bond mentioned in the next section
unless such bond or deposit be waived in writing by the defendant in error. 
The sureties shall justify their responsibility in the same manner as to an un-
dertaking on appeal. 
SEC. 3045. No writ of error shall operate
to stay or supersede the execution in any civil action unless the plaintiff in
error or some person in his behalf shall give bond to the defendant in error, in
double the amount of the judgment of toe court below, with one or more suffi­
cient sureties, conditioned that the plaintiff in error shall prosecute his action
to effect, and pay all costs and damages which may be awarded against him
therein, and in case the judgment of the court below is affirmed will pav the
amount thereof with costs, unless such bond be waived, in writing, by defend­
ant in error. The sufficiency of such bond or sureties thereto shall be deter­
mined in any case by any justice or the clerk of the supreme court. 
SEC. 3046. The bond mentioned
in the preceding section, if any is given, shall be filed in the office of the clerk
of the supreme court for the use of the defendant, and no execution shall be 
issued thereafter upon the judgment complained of during the pendencv of
the writ of error, and if execution shall have been already issued the clerk
shall make and sign a certificate of the issuing of the writ of error and the filing
of the bond, and after notice of such certificate to the officer holding the exe­
cution all further proceedings thereon shall be stayed. 
SEC. 8047. Appeals to the supreme court may be taken from the circuit courts and
also from county courts having civil jurisdiction, except in cases where express
provision is or may be made by law for an appeal to the circuit court from
such county courts, and from any court of record having civil jurisdiction
when noother court of appeal is provided by law. But no appeal shall here­
after be taken to the supreme _court from any judgment when the amount in­
volved, exclusive of costs, is less than one hundred dollars, unless the title to
lands shall therein be in question, or the judge of the court in which such judg­
ment was rendered shall certify that the case necessarily involves the decision
of some question of law of such doubt and difficulty as to require a decision of
the same by the supreme court, or that it necessarily involves the construction
or interpretation of some provision of the constitution of the United States or
of the constitution of this state; and in all such cases the question or questions
so certified shall be briefly and clearly stated bv such judge, and on the ap­
peal no other question shall be considered or decided. Appeals may be taken
from interlocutory judgments, subject to the same limitations as from final 
judgments. 
SEC. 3048. No writ of error shall be
necessary to bring up any judgment for review before the supreme court, but
any judgment within the preceding section or any order defined in section
3069 may be reviewed upon an appeal by any party aggrieved. The party ap­
pealing is called the appellant, the other the respondent. 
SEC. 3049. An appeal mast be taken by serving
a notice in writing, signed by the appellant or his attorney, on the adverse
party and on the clerk of the court in which the judgment or order appealed
from is entered, stating the appeal from the same, and whether the appeal is
from the whole or some part thereof, and if from a part only, specifying the
:part appealed from. An appeal may embrace two or more appeala.ble orders, 
1f the time for appealing therefrom or from either of them has not expired,
and may include or omit the judgment. In such case the notice of appeal shall
designate with reasonable certainty the orders appealed from, or tbe part of
them or either of them, or of the judgment appealed from. But one under­
taking shall be required on such appeals, which shall be in the terms prescribed
by section 3052, except where the conditions thereof may be fixed by the court
or judge, in which case the undertaking shall conform to the order made or
directions given. If the appellant shall succeed, in whole or in part, he shall
be allowed costs unless the supreme court, in its discretion, determines other­ 
wise. A,ny appeal shall be ~eemed taken by th~ service of the notice of apJ?eal,
and pe1 i ected on the service of the undertaking for costs, or the deposit of 
money instead, or the waiver thereof as hereinafter prescribed. When service 
of such notice and undertaking cannot, in any ease, be made within this state
the court may prescribe a mode of serving the same. 
SEC. 3050. Upon an appeal being perfected the
clerk of the court from which it is taken shall, at the expense of the appellant,
forthwith transmit to the supreme court, if the appeal is from a judgment, the 
judgment roll; if it is from an order or orders he shall transmit the order or
orders appealed from and the original papers used by each party on the appli­
cation therefor, and if it is from the judgment and one or more orders he shall
transmit the judgment roll and such papers. The court may, however, in each
case, direct copies to be sent in lieu of the originals. The clerk shall also, in
all cases, transmit to the supreme court the notice of appeal and the under­
taking given thereon, and annex to the papers so transmitted a certificate
under his hand and the seal of the court from which the appeal is taken, cer­ 
tifying that they are the original papers or copies as the case may be, and that 
they are transmitted pursuant to such appeal. No further certificate or at­
testation shall be necessary. 
SEC. 3051. When the
appellant is required, under any provision of this chapter, to give an under­ 
taking he may, in lieu thereof, deposit with the clerk of the court in which
the judgment or order appealed from is entered (who shall give a receipt there­
for), a sum of money egnal to the amount for which such undertaking is re­
quired to be given, and m lieu of the service of such undertaking serve notice
of the making of such deposit, · Such deposit and notice shall have the same
effect as the service of the required undertaking, and be held to answer tlie
event of the appeal upon the terms prescribed for the undertaking in lieu of
which the same is deposited. Any such undertaking and deposit may be
waived in writing bv the respondent for whose benefit the same is required
to be made, and such waiver shall have the same effect as the giving of the
ondertaking would have had. 
SEC. 3052. To render an appeal e:tiectual
for any purpose an undertaking must be executed on the part of the appellant 
by at least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all costs and 
damages which may be awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding two
hundred and fifty dollars. 
SEC. 3053.
If the appeal be from a judgment directing the payment of money it shall not 
stay the execution of the judgment unless an undertaking be executed on the
part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that if the judg­
ment appealed from or any part thereof be affirmed the appellant will pay
the amount directed to be paid by the judgment or the part of such amount as
to which the judgment shall be affirmed, it it be affirmed only in part, and all 
damages which shall be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal. 
SEC. 3054. If the
judgment appealed from direct the assignment or delivery of documents or 
personal property the execution of the judgment shall not be delayed by the
appeal unless the things required to be assigned or delivered be brought into
court or placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the court or pre­
siding judge thereof shall appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered mto
on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, in such sum as the court 
or presiding judge thereof shall direct, to the effect that the appellant will 
obey the order of the appellate court on the appeal.
SEC. 3055. If the judgment appealed
from direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument the execution
of the judgment shall not be stared by the appeal unless the instrument shall
have been executed and deposited with the clerk with whom the judgment is
entered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court. 
SEC. 3056. If the judg­
ment appealed from direct the sale or delivery of possession of real property 
(except in actions for the foreclosure of a mortgage) the execution of the same
shall not be stayed unless an undertaking be executed on the part of the ap­
pellant, by at least two sureties, in such sum as the court or the rresiding judge
thereof shall direct, to the effect that, during the possession o such property
bv the appellant, 'he will not commit or suffer to be committed any waste
thereon; and that if the judgment be affirmed he will pay the value of the use
and occupation of the property from the time of the appeal until the delivery
of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment. 
SEC. 8057. If the judg­
ment appealed from direct the sale of mortgaged premises the execution thereof
shall not be stayed by the appeal unless an undertaking be executed on the
part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, conditioned for the payment of
any deficiency which may arise on such sale, not exceeding such sum as shall
be fixed by the court or the presiding judge thereof, to be specified in the un­
dertaking, and all costs and damages which may be awarded to the respond­
ent on such appeal. 
SEC. 3058. If the judg­
ment appealed from direct the abatement or restrain the continuance of a
nuisance, either public or private, the execution of the judgment shall not be
stayed by the appeal unless an undertaking be entered into on the pa.rt of the
appellant, by at least two sureties, in such sum as the court or the presiding
judge thereof shall direct, to the effect that the appellant will pay all damages
which the opposite party may sustain by the oontmuance of such nuisance. 
SEC. 3059. If the judgment appealed
from direct the doing or not doing of any other particular act or thing, and no
express provision is made by statute in regard to the undertaking to "be given
on appeal therefrom, the execution thereof shall not be stayed by an appeal
therefrom unless an undertaking be entered into on the part of the appellant,
in such sum as the court or the presiding judge thereof shall direct, and by at
least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all damages which
the opposite party may have sustained by the doing or not doing the particu­
lar act or thing directed to be done or not done by the judgment appealed
from, and to such further effect as such court or judge shall in discretion
direct. 
SEC. SEcmoN 3060. When the appeal is from
an order the execution or performance thereof or obedience thereto shall not 
be delayed except upon compliance with such conditions as the court or the
presiding judge thereof shall direct, and when so required an undertaking shall
be executed on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, in such sum
and to such effect as the court or the presiding judge thereof shall direct; such
effect shall be directed in accordance with the nature of the order appealed
from, corresponding to the foregoing provisions in respect to appeals from
judgments, where applicable, and such provision shall be made in all cases as
shall properlf protect the respondent; and no appeal from an intermediate
order before Judgment shall stay proceedings unless the court or the presiding
judge thereof shall, in his discretion, so specially order. 
SEC. 3061. 
When a party shall give immediate notice of appeal from an order vacating
or modifying & writ of attachment or from an order denying, dissolving or
modifying an injunction: he may, within three days thereafter, serve an under- 
taking, executed on his part by at least two sureties, in such sum as the court
or the presiding judge thereof shall direct, to the effect that if the order ap­
pealed from or any part thereof be affirmed the appellant will pay all costs
and damages which may be awarded against him on the appeal and all which
the adverse :party may sustain by reason of the continuance of the attachment
or the grantmg or continuance of the injunction, as the case may be. Upon
the givmg of such undertaking such court or· judge shall order the attachment
to be ·continued, and, in his discretion, may order the injunction asked to be
allowed or that before granted to be continued until the decision of the appeal
unless the respondent shall, at any time pending the appeal, give an undertak­
ing, with sufficient surety in a sum to be fixed by such court or judge, to abide
and :perform any final judgment that shall be rendered in favor of such appel­
lant m the action; but may at any time subsequently vacate such order if the
appeal be not diligently prosecuted. 
SEC. 8062. When the
state, or any state officer, or state board, in a purely official capacity, or any 
municipal corporation within the state shall take an appeal service of the no­
tice of appeal shall perfect the appeal and stay the execution or performance
of the judgment or order appealed from, and no undertaking need be given.
But the supreme court may, on motion, require security to be given in such
form and manner as it shall in its discretion prescribe as a condition of the
further prosecution of the appeal. 
SEC. 8063. The supreme
court, upon satisfactory proof that any of the sureties to any undertaking given
under this chapter has become insolvent or that his circumstances have become
so precarious that there is reason to apprehend that the undertaking is insuffi­
cient security, may, in its discretion, require the appellant to file and serve a
new undertaking, with such surety and within such time as shall be prescribed,
and that in default thereof the appeal shall be dismissed or the stay of pro­
ceedings vacated and the execution or performance of the judgment or order
be allowed to be enforced without further delay. 
SEC. 8064.
The undertakings required by this chapter may be in one instrument or sev­
eral, at the option of the appellant; the original must be filed with the notice
of appeal, and a copy, showmg the residence of the sureties, must be served
with the notice of appeal. When the sum or effect of any undertaking is re­
quired under the foregoing provisions to be fixed by the court or judge, at least
twenty-four hours' notice of the application therefor shall be given the adverse
party. When the court or the judge thereof from which the appeal is taken or
desired to be taken shall neglect or refuse to make any order or direction, not 
wholly discretionary, necessary to enable the appellant to stay proceedings
upon an appeal the supreme court or one of the justices thereof shall make
such order or direction.
SEC. 3065. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect unless it shall be
accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, in which each surety shall state
that he is worth a certain sum mentioned in such affidavit, over and above all 
his debts and liabilities, in property within this state not bv law exempt from
execution, and which sums so sworn to shall, in the aggregate, be double the
amount specified in said undertaking. The respondent may except to the suf­
ficiency of the sureties within twenty days after service of a oopv of the un- 
- dertaking, and unless they or other sureties justifv in the manner prescribed
in sections 2704, 2705 and 2706, within ten days .. thereafter, the appeal shall
be regarded as if no undertaking had been given. The justification shall be
upon a notice of not less than five days.
SEC. 3066. Whenever
an appeal shall have been perfected and the proper undertaking given or other
act done, prescribed by this chapter, to stay the execution or performance of 
the judgment or order appealed from, all further proceedings thereon shall be
thereby stayed accordingly, except that the court below may proceed upon any
other matter included in the action, not affected by the judgment or order ap­
pealed from, and except that the court or presiding judge thereof may order
perishable property, held under the judgment or order appealed from, to be
sold, and the proceeds paid into court to abide the event. 
SEC. 3067. When the amount of damages to be
paid by the appellant, on affirmance of the judgment or order appealed from,
pursuant to any undertaking is not fixed by the judgment or decision of the
supreme court on the appeal, the circuit court may, after the remittitur of the
record from the supreme court is filed, order a reference to ascertain such dam­
ages, the expense of which shall be included and recoverable with such dam­
ages. 'In all cases a neglect for the space of thirt7 days after the aflirmance 
on appeal of a judgment directing the payment o money, to pay the amount
directed to be paid on such affirmance, shall be deemed a breach of the under­
taking_ on such appeal. A neglect for the space of thirty days after the con­
flrmation of the report of a referee, to whom a reference has been ordered for
the purpose of ascertaining the damages to be paid, on the afflrmance of any
other judgment or order appealed from, to pay the amount of damages so
ascertained and the costs of such reference, shall be deemed a breach of the
undertaking on such appeal. The dismissal of an appeal or writ of error by
the appellant or plaintiff in error or by the court for want of rrosecution, 
unless the court shall at the time otherwise expressly order, shal render the
sureties upon any undertaking or bond riven under this chapter liable in the 
same manner and to the same extent as i the judgment or order appealed from
or the judgment brought up on error had been affirmed. In every case where
the supreme court shall give judgment against the appellant or the plaintiff in
a writ of error upon a money judgment and either such party shall have given
a bond or undertaking in the court below such judgment shall be entered in
such court, on the remittitur being filed therein, against the appellant or the
plaintiff in error and his sureties Jointly; but it shall not be collected of the
sureties if the officer to whom an execution is directed can find sufficient prop­
erty of the principal to satisfy the same, and a direction to that effect shall be
indorsed on the execution by the party issuing it. 
SEC. 3068. When a party shall in good faith give no­
tice of appeal and shall omit, through mistake or accident, to do any other
act necessary to perfect the appeal or make it effectual or to stay proceedings,
the court from which the appeal is taken or the presiding judge thereof, or
the supreme court or one of the justices thereof, may permit an amendment
or the proper act to be done, on such terms as may be just. 
SEC. 8069. The following orders, when made by the
court, may be carried by appeal to the supreme court: 
1. Au order affecting a. substantial right, made in any action, when such
order in effect determines the action and prevents a judgment from whioh an
appeal might be taken. 
2. A final order affecting a substantial right made in special proceedings or
upon a summary application in an action after judgment. 
8. When an order grants, refuses, continues or modifies a provisional rem­
edy, or grants, refuses, modifies or dissolves an injunction, or sets aside or dis­ 
misses a writ of attachment for irregularity, grants a new trial or sustains or
overrules a demurrer. . 
4. Orders made by the circuit court vacating or refusing to set aside orders
made at chambers, where by the provisions of this chapter an appeal might
have been taken in case the order so made at chambers had been granted or
denied by the circuit court in the tirst instance. For the purpose of appealing
from an 'order either party may require the order to be entered by the clerk
of record, and it shall be entered accordingly.
SEC. 3070. Upon an ap­ 
J>Ml from a judgment, as well as upon a writ of error, the supreme court may
review any intermediate order or determination of the court below, which in­
volves the merits and neoessa.rily affects the judgment, appearing upon the
record transmitted or returned from the circuit oourt, whetLer the same were
excepted to or not; nor· shall it be necessary in any case to take any exception
or settle any bill of exceptions to enable the supreme court to review any
alleged error which would, without a bill of exceptions, appear upon the face
of the reoord. Any questions of fact or of law decided upon trials by the
court or by referees may be reviewed, when exceptions to the findings of fact,
have been duly taken by either party and returned. 
SEC. 3071. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order or
upon a writ of error the supreme court may reverse, affirm or modify the judg­
ment or order, and as to any or alJ of the parties; and may, if necessary or
proper, order a new trial; and if the appeal is from a pa.rt of a judgment or
order may reverse, affirm or modify as to the part appealed from. In all cases
the supreme court shall remit its judgment or decision to the court from which
the appeal or writ of error was taken, to be enforced accordingly; and if from
a judgment, final judgment shall thereupon be entered in the court below, in
accordance therewith, except where otherwise ordered. The clerk of the su­
preme court shall remit to such court the papers transmitted to the supreme
court on the appeal or writ of error, to~ether with the judgment or decision of the
supreme court thereon, within sixty cays after the same shall have been made,
unless the supreme court, on application of either of the parties, shall direct
them to be retained for the purpose of enabling such party to move for a re­
hearing. In case such motion for a rehearing is denied the papers shall be
transmitted within twenty days after such demal. The clerk of the supreme
court shall, in all cases, except when the order or judgment is affirmed, also
transmit with the papers so returned by him a. certified copy of the opinion
of the supreme court, and his fees for such copy shall be taxed and allowed
with his other fees in the case. 
SEC. 3072. In every case in error or on appeal in which the
supreme court shall order a. new trial or further proceedings in the court
below the record shall be transmitted to such court and proceedings had
thereon within one year from the date of such order in the supreme court, or
in default thereof the action shall be dismissed unless, upon good cause shown,
the court shall otherwise order. It shall be the duty of the plaintiff in any
action or prooeeding when a judgment or order in his favor therein is reversed· 
by the supreme court on defendant's appeal to pay the taxable costs on such
reversal, procure the record in said cause to be remitted to the trial court and
bring the cause to trial within one year after such reversal unless the same be 
continued for cause, and if he fail so to do the complaint shall be dismissed. 
SEC. 8078. Actions for the recovery of specific real prop­ 
erty or of the possession thereof, with damages for the withholding thereof,
are styled actions of ejectment, and may be commenced and proceeded in as 
other civil actions are except as hereinafter provided in this oha.pter.
SEC. 307 4. No person can recover
in such action unless he has, at the time of commencing the action, a valid sub­
sisting interest in the premises claimed and a right to recover the same or to 
recover the possession thereof or of some share, interest or portion thereof, 
to be proved and established in such action; provided, that if either party 
shall, during the pendency of the action, acquire the title and right to the
possession of the premises in controversy, the party acquiring such title and
right of possession may, on paying or tendering to the opposite party all
costs which have accrued up to the time of making such tender or payment,
have said action continued and judgment may be entered according to the
rights of the parties as they shall appear at the time of trial.
SEC. 3075. If the premises for which
the action is brought are actually occupied by any person such actual occu­
pant shall be made defendant in complaint; if they are not so occupied the
action must be brought against some person exercising acts of ownership on
the premises claimed or claiming title thereto or some interest therein at the
commencement of the action. 
SEC. 3076. 
The plaintiff may join as defendant any person claiming title to such premises
with any actual occupant thereof or of some part or parcel thereof, holding as
tenant under such person so claiming title or otherwise. If upon trial it shall
appear that distinct parcels of the premises are occupied by different defend­
ants in severalty or Jointly, and any defendant shall make it appear by alflda­ 
vit that he has a defense in such action, separate and distinct from that of his
co-defendants, the court may award a separate trial as to any of the defend­
ants, as the justice of the case may require; and several judgments may be
rendered upon the verdicts in such separate trials and new trials had as herein­
after provided, according to the rights and interests of the parties ; but other­
wise the trial may proceed against all the defendants, and a joint or separate
verdict may be found and separate judgments may be rendered on such ver­
dicts according to the rights and interests of the parties. 
SEC. 3077. The
complaint in such actions shall set forth that the plaintiff has an estate or in­
terest in the premises .claimed, describing them by designating the number of
the. lot or township, if any, in which they are situated, and, if none, by stating
the names of the last occupants of lands adjoining the same, if any, or by
metes and bounds, or in some other way so that, from the description given,
possession of the premises claimed may be delivered; and shall particularly
state the nature and extent of such estate or interest, whether in fee, dower,
for life or for a term of years, specifying such life or lives or the duration of
such term, and that he is entitled to the possession of such rremises, and that
the defendant unlawfully withholds the possession thereo from him, to his
dam~e such sum as he claims, and may include a claim for special damages
for injuries to the freehold by waste or otherwise, and shall contain a demand
for the judgment he claims. The plaintiffs, or any one of them; may recover
under such complaint any individual share or interest in the premises claimed
or any separate parcel thereof which may be established in the action. 
SEC. 8078. The defendant may demur to or
answer the complaint as in personal actions; he may also, in his answer, set
up any matter as a defense which would have heretofore formed an equitable
defense, in which case the answer shall contain a demand for such judgment
as he claims. If the defendant is entitled to have the lands described m the
complaint or any part thereof condemned for publio use under the laws of this
state the defendant shall answer, setting forth the facts and the purpose for
which said lands are required. If it shall be made to appear to the satisfac­
tion of the court that no proceedings for the condemnation of said lands had
been instituted when said action was commenced and that the defendant is
authorized by law to take such lands for public use the court may order a stay
of proceedings until such time as the defendant can, with due diligence, insti­
tute and complete condemnation proceedings in relation to said lands, and if
it shall appear that the plaintiff is entitled to judgment the defendant shall pay
the costs in the original action. 
SEC. 3079. It shall not be necessarv for the
plaintiff to prove, or for the defendant to confess, lease, entry and ouster or
either of them except as provided in the next section; nor for the plaintiff to
prove an actual entry under title nor the actual receipt of any profits of the
premises demanded, but it shall be sufficient for him to show a right to the pos­
session of such premises at the time of the commencement of the action as heir,
devisee, purchaser or otherwise. 
SEC. 3080. If the action be brought by 
one or more tenants in common or joint tenants against their co-tenants the
plaintiff, in addition to all other evidence which he may be bound to give, shall 
be required to prove on the trial of the cause that the defendant actuall7
ousted such plaintiff or did some other act amounting to a total denial of his
right as such co-tenant. 
SEC. 3081. If the action be
brought against several defendants and a joint possession of all be proved
the plaintiff shall be entitled to a verdict against all whether they shall have
answered separately or jointly. 
SEC. 3082. The plaintiff may also
recover damages for the rents and profits of the premises recovered, during
the time that the same are unlawfully withheld, not exceeding six years prior
to the commencement of the action, and also any special damages claimed in
the complaint for injuries to the freehold by waste or otherwise, which dam·
ages shall be assessed by the same jury by which the action is tried. In esti­
mating such damages the value of the use of any improvements made by the
defendant or those under whom he claims shall not be allowed to the plamtitf. 
SEC. 3083. An
executor or administrator may proceed by action, pursuant to this chapter, for
the recovery of specific real property or of the possession thereof, with dam·
ages for the withholding of the same, belonging to the estate represented by
him. In stating the interest claimed the complaint shall set forth the nature
and extent of the interest which the heirs, devisees or successors in interest of
the deceased have in the premises claimed and also that the plaintiff, as such
executor or administrator, is entitled to the possession thereof. 
SEC. 3084-. In such actions the verdict shall
be rendered as follows: 
1. If it be shown on the trial that all the plaintiffs have a right to recover
the possession of the premises the verdict in that respect shall be for the plaint­
iffs generally. 
2. If it appear that one or more of the plaintiffs have a right to the posses.
sion of the premises or any share or interest therein and that one or more have
not such right the verdict shall specify for which plaintiff the jury find and as
to which plaintiff they find for the defendant. 
3. If the verdict be for any plaintiff and there be several defendants the ver­
diet shall be rendered al7ainst such of them as were in rossession of the prem­ 
ises or as claimed title thereto at the commencement o the action. 
4. If the verdict be for all the premises claimed, as specified in the com­
plaint, it shall in that respect be for such premises generally. 
5. If the verdict be for a part of the premises described in the complaint the
verdict shall particularly specify such part with the same certainty hereinbe­
fore required in the complaint in the description of the premises claimed. 
6. If the verdict be for an undivided share or interest in the premises claimed
it shall specify such share or interest, and if for an undivided share in part of
the premises claimed it shall specify such share and shall describe such part
of the premises as hereinbefore required. 
7. The verdict shall specifv the estate which shall have been established on
the trial by the plaintiff, if rendered in his favor, whether it be in fee, dower, 
for life or for a term of years, specifying such life or lives or the duration of 
such term. 
SEC. 3085. If the right or title of a plaintiff in such action
expire after the commencement of the action the verdict shall be according to
the fact; and the damages for rents and profits shall be assessed up to the tune
that such right or title expired, and judgment therefor only shall be rendered
in favor of such plaintiff. 
SEC. 3086. The judgment, after trial, shall be in
accordance with the verdict or decision of the coo rt; and if judgment be for
the plaintiff by default, according to the description of the premises and the
estate therein alleged in the complaint or proved, with costs
SEC. 3087. In all such actions,
when the plaintiff is entitled to recover by reason ofa defect or insufficiencv 
of anv tax deed under which the defendant claims title or in the proceedings
priorto the sale upon which such tax deed was issued, unless it shall be made
to appear affirmatively by the plaintiff that the premises claimed were not
liable to taxation for the tax for which they were sold, or that such tax was
paid prior to the sale, or the land was redeemed from such sale, the court shall
order that the amount for which such land was sold, and the costs of executing
and recording such tax deed, and the amount paid by the defendant for taxes
assessed upon such premises subsequent to said sale, with interest on all such
sums at the rate of fifteen per centum per annum from the time so paid until
the date of verdict, shall be set off against the damazes awarded to the plaint­
iff by the verdict; and if there be any excess, that the plaintiff, as a condition
of judgment, shall pay the same, with interest from the date of the verdict,
within ninety days; and that, in default thereof, the defendant shall have judg­
ment in the action; provided, that no recovery shall be had in any such action
upon any ground which might have been urged in an action to set aside or
cancel the certificate upon which such deed is based but which is barred by
the statutes of limitation. 
SEC. 8088. Every judgment rendered in any
such action shall be conclusive as to the title established therein upon the
party against whom it is rendered and upon all persons claiming from,
through or under him by title accruing after the filing of a notice of the pend­
ency of the action in the office of the proper register of deeds, subject to the 
exceptions hereinafter contained. 
SEC. 8089. Every such judgment rendered upon the defendant's failure to­ 
answer shall, from and after two years from the time of its rendition, be con­
clusive as to the title established therein upon the party against whom it is.
rendered and all persons claiming from, through or under him by title accru­
ing after the filing of a notice ol the pendency of the action in the office of
the proper register of deeds; bot within such two yea.rs, on the application of
the defendant, his heirs, devisees or assigns and upon the payment of all costs.
recovered thereby, the court shall vacate such judgment and allow the defend­
ant, his heirs, devisees or assigns to answer therein, in which case he may aver
and show any matters in bar of a recovery which he mi~ht show to entitle­
him to recover possession of the premises if he were plaintiff in the action. 
SEC. 8090. If the defendant in such ao- 
tion, at the time of the rendition of such judgment, be either:
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or
2. Insane; or
8. Imprisoned on any criminal charge or in execution U,Pon conviction of a, 
criminal offense for any term less than life, the time durmg which such dis­
ability may continue is no part of tho two years mentioned· in the preceding section; but such defendant, his heirs, devisees or assigns may apply to so
vacate such judgment or bring an action for the recovery of the premises
claimed within two years after such disability shall be removed, bot not after­
wards. 
SEC. 3091. If the defendant in the ac­
tion mentioned in the two preceding sections shall die during the continuance
of such disability and no determination or judgment has been had of or upon.
his right, title or action so to him accrued, his heirs, devisees or assigns may
apply to vacate such judgment or bring such action after the time above lim­
ited, and within two years after his death. 
SEC. 3092. The court in which any such judgment shall
have been rendered, otherwise than upon failure to answer, shall, upon appli­
cation of the party against whom the same was rendered, his heirs, devisees or
assigns, within one year from the rendition thereof, vacate the judgment and
grant a new trial upon condition that all costs recovered thereby or awarded
on afflrmance of such judgment on appeal or writ of error be paid, and that
the applicant execute and file an undertaking, with sufficient sureties, in such
sum as the court shall direct, to the effect that he will pay all costs and dam­ 
ageJ which may be finally awarded the other party. The sureties shall justify
tlieir responsibility in the same manner as bail on arrest. The time during·
which the action may be pending on an appeal or writ of error from such
judgment, either in the supreme court or the supreme court of the United
'States, or both, from the taking of the appeal or issuing the writ of error to
the filing of the remittitur or mandate in the court below shall not be reckoned 
.a part of such one year. But one such new trial shall be granted. 
SEC. 3093.
When the plaintiff has taken possession of real property, by virtue of any judg­
ment awarding him tho possession thereof, snoh possession shall not be in any
way affected by the vacating of such judgment as herein provided; and if the
defendant thereafter recover judgment in the action it shall be for the restitu­
tion of the possession of such property, and execution may issue for the delivery
thereof to him as if he were plaintiff. 
SEC. 8094. If the action be to recover
dower which has not been admeasured no execution shall issue except as here·
inafter provided, but such dower shall be assigned as follows: · 
1. Upon entering judgment the court shall appoint three disinterested free­
holders commissioners for the purpose of making admeasurement of the dower
out of the premises claimed, who shall proceed m like manner and possess the
like powers, unless otherwise directed by the court, as commissioners appointed
under chapter 166. 
2. The court may confirm or modify the report as may be just.
3. Upon the confirmation of the report execution may issue to the sheriff of 
the pro~r county, describing the premises assigned for dower, and command­
ing the sheriff to put the plaintiff in possession thereof. The costs and expenses
of such admeasurement shall be subject to the order of the court. 
SEC. 3095. No action of eject­
ment for the recovery of mortgaged premises shall be maintained by a mort­
gagee, his assigns or representatives. 
SEC. 3096. In every case where a recovery
shall be had of any land on which the party in possession or those under whom
he claims, while holding adversely by color of title asserted in good faith,
founded on descent or any written instrument, shall have made permanent
and valuable improvements or shall have paid taxes assessed, such party, for
himself and for the benefit of those under whom ho claims, shall be entitled to
have from the plaintiff, his heirs or assigns, if he insist upon his recovery, the
value of such improvements at the time the verdict or decision against him is
given and the amount paid for taxes, with interest from the date of tho pay­
ment, to be assessed and recovered as hereinafter provided, and for the pay­
ment thereof shall have a lien on the real estate so recovered. When such
recovery is of any estate less than a fee or of any share or interest less than
the whole the claim for such improvements and taxes shall be proportioned to
the benefits derived thereby to the estate, share or interest recovered. But
the plaintiff shall be entitled to set off against such claim for improvements
and taxes any claim for rents and profits enjoyed by the defendant or those
under whom he claims during any period occurring prior to and terminating
six years before the commencement of such action of ejectment and which he
might have recovered but for the limitation by law thereon; and also any such
rents and profits enjoyed by the defendant since the verdict in the ejootment
action and prior to the assessment of the value of such improvements. 
SEC. 3097. Such claim for improve­
ments and taxes may be tried and the amount exceeding the set-offs aforesaid 
assessed and recovered as follows: 
1. The defendant may set forth his claims by way of counter-claim in his
answer to the complaint in ejectment, and have the same tried and the amount
assessed by the same jury by which the action of ejectment is tried, but a sep­
arate verdict shall in all cases be rendered thereon; or 
·2. After a verdict for the plaintiff, and at the same term or within such
further time as may be granted by the court, when no such counter-claim shall
have been ma.de, the court shall, on the application of the defendant, cause an
issue to be made up, between the parties, in which such defendant shall be 
plaintiff and the plaintiff in the ejectment action shall be defendant, and such
issue shall stand for trial by a jury at the same or any subsequent term to which
it shall be continued; in which case no judgment shall be entered in the aotion
of ejeotment until the trial of such issue. 
3. If neither of the foregoing modes be pursued the defendant may recover
such taxes and interest and the value of such improvements, with interest from
the date of the verdict in the ejectment action, and enforce his lien therefor, by
an independent action after judgment in the ejectment action, which must be
commenced within one year from the date of the execution of such judgment.
Such action may be maintained in the circuit court notwithstanding the action
of ejectment may have been tried in any court of the United States. 
SEC. 3098. When the
right of a defendant to recover for such improvements and taxes shall be estab­ 
lished and the amount thereof assessed in either of the two first modes afore­
said such assessment, with the costs of the trial of such issue, shall he set 08 
against the sum awarded for costs and damages to the plaintiff in the action
of ejectment, and if there remain any excess the judgment in such action shall
provide that the plaintiff shall pay the amount thereof with interest from the
ilate of the verdict in the ejectment action, within three rears from the date 
of such assessment as a condition of execution, and shal have no claim for
rents and profits while the same remains so unpaid after assessment, and that,
in default of. such payment, he shall be deemed to have abandoned his claim of title to the premises in question and, together with all persons claiming under
him, shall be forever barred of a recovery and of claim of title, and the title
to the premises in question shall be deemed absolutely vested in the defendant,
and the defendant shall recover his costs of any separate trial of the value of
such improvements; but that upon payment as aforesaid the plaintiff shall
have execution for the premises recovered. 
SEC. 3099. At the ex­
piration of the three years limited in any such judgment the court may make 
an order npon the foot of the judgment, upon application of the defendant
after notice and upon satisfactory proof of tho fact, declaring that the plaintiff
has failed to make the payment required thereby as a condition of execution
and that the judgment has become absolute in favor of the defendant. 
SEC. 3100. If the de­
fendant in any action of ejectment be, at the time of the rendition thereof,
under either disability mentioned in section 3000, the time during which such
disability shall continue shall not be reckoned any part of the year mentioned 
in the third subdivision of section 3097; but the action may be brought within
one year after the removal of such disability. 
SEC. 3100a. In everv case where a recovery shall
be had of any land on which the party in possession or those under whom he
claims, while holding adversely by color of title asserted in good faith, founded
on descent or any written instrument, or by mistake in boundary or otherwise 
by adverse possessio~ short of the statutory period or actual ad verse pos~es­
sion founded on a void tax deed, shall have made permanent and valuable im­
provements by the erection of a building situate in part on such land so
recovered and in part upon adjoining land in which plaintiff has no interest,
and which portion of said building situate upon said land so recovered cannot 
be removed or separated from the remaining portion thereof without serious
injury to the part so resting upon the land so recovered and the part remain­
ing and situate upon other land, then the defendant in such action may, within
ninety days after final judgment (exclusive of the time for taking an appeal
therefrom to the filing of the remittitor from the appellate court) file his claim
in writing that the case is such as is above specified, and state therein that he
desires to purchase the interest of the plaintiff in such land. Thereupon the
court shall, upon application of the defendant, cause an issue to be made up
between the parties in which the ejectment defendant shall be plaintiff and
the ejectment plaintiff shall be defendant, and such issue shall stand for trial
by a jury at the same or any subsequent term to which it shall be continued. 
SEC. 31007>. Upon the filing
of such claim the ejectment defendant may apply to the court to fix the amount
of a bond to be given by him in the original action to stay the execution of
the judgment therein, except the collection of costs; and upon giving such bond
in such sum and with such sureties as the court shall direct, conditioned that
the defendant will abide by, perform and p:1y such judgment as may be ren­
dered upon the issue so made upon his claim, or such judgment as may have
been entered in the original action, as the event may require, including the 
value of use of .the premises after the original judgment, the court shall stay
the enforcement of such judgment, except the collection of costs, until the de­
termination of the issue upon such claim. 
SEC. 3100c. Upon the trial
of such issue the jury shall.determine whether or not the case is such as speci­
fied in section 3100a, and if they determine that it is such case they shall also
determine the value of the estate of the ejectment plaintiff in the land so recov­
ered at any time when its value shall have been the highest between the time
of the taking possession thereof by the ejectment defendant and the time of
the trial, exclusive of any improvements placed thereon by such defendant or
those under whom he claims, either to be used separately or in connection with 
any other lands owned by the ejectment plaintiff, and also the date when such
lands were of such highest value, the damages to such plaintiff for the deten­
tion of such lands up to such date, and mesne profits to that date. If the ver­
dict establishes that the case is within said section the court shall enter judg­
ment in favor of the ejectment plaintiff and against the ejectment defendant
for the amount determined to be the value of the interest of such plaintiff in
said premises, with interest thereon from the date when such property was of
said highest value, and such damages for detention and mesne profits. 
SEC. 3100d. Upon
payment of the amount of such judgment wit~ interest thereon and such c.osts 
as may have been legally taxed against the ejectment defendant to the eject­
ment plaintiff or his heirs or representatives all the estate of said plaintiff shall
vest in and thereafter be the property of said defendant. But if the same be
not paid in one year from final judgment (exclusive of the time for taking an
appeal therefrom to the filing of the remittitur from the appellate court), such
plaintiff may, at his option, have satisfaction of such latter judgment or enforce
the original judgment for possession in ejectment; and in such case may have
an action upon the bond so given for the value of the use of the premises from
the date of such original judgment. 
SEC. 3101. All persons holding lands as 
joint tenants or tenants in common may have partition thereof by civil action
m the manner provided in this chapter. Such action may be maintained by 
any person who has any estate in possession of the lands of which partition IS 
sought, but not by any one who has only an estate therein in remainder or
reversion. 
SEC. 3102. The complaint in such action shall
particularly describe the lands sought to be partitioned and shall set forth the 
rights and titles of all persons interested therein, so far as the same are known
to the plaintiff, including the interest of any tenant for years, for life, by the
cortesy or in dower and of the persons entitled to the reversion, remainder
or inheritance, after the termination of any particular estate therein; and of 
every person who by any contingency, contained in any devise, grant or other­
wise, or as having an inchoate right of dower may be or become entitled to
any beneficial interest in the premises; but in case any such person or his
share or interest be unknown to the plaintiff, or be uncertain or contingent,
or the ownership of the inheritance shall depend upon an executory devise, or
the remainder shall be a contingent remainder, so that such person or his in­
terest cannot be named or set forth, the same shall be stated in the complaint;
but no person whose title or interest appears of record or who is in the actual
possession or occupancy of any of such lands shall be considered or proceeded
against as an unknown owner. The complaint shall demand judgment for a
partition of the premises according to the respective rights of the parties in­
terested therein and for a sale thereof, if it shall appear that partition of the
land cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners thereof; and when
the complaint does not pray partition of all the lands owned by the parties
either of them may have the complaint so amended as to affect all the lands
so owned. Every person having an interest, as aforesaid, whether in posses­
sion or otherwise, and every person entitled to dower in such premises, if the
same has not been admeasured, may be made a party to such action. 
SEC. 3103. The plaintiff need not,
in the first instance, but may, at his election, make any creditor having a lien 
upon the premises or any part thereof, or any undivided interest or estate
therein a defendant. If such lien is upon an individual [undivided] interest or
estate therein the complaint shall set forth the nature of such lien and specify
the share to which it attaches. If partition is made such lien upon an undi­
vided interest or estate shall thereafter be a charge only on the share assigned 
to the party against whom it exists, which share shall be charged with its just
proportion of the costs in preference to such lien, but in no other case shall
such partition alter, affect or impair the lien of any such creditor. 
SEC. 3104. The general guardians, re- ,
siding in this state, of all minors or other persons under guardianship who -
should be parties to any such action, upon giving the bond herein provided
for, shall represent their wards therein; and the court or a judge thereof shall 
appoint guardians, for the purposes of the action, of all such mmors who have
no such general guardian, and the acts of all such guardians shall be binding
upon their wards. Every such guardian shall give a bond to the state, to be
filed with the clerk of the court, in such sum and with such surety as the court
or a judge thereof shall direct, and to be by such court or judge approved, con­
ditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as guardian, that he will
render a just and true account of his guardianship in all courts and places
when thereunto required and observe all orders of the court in relation to his
trust. If such general guardian or guardian so appointed fail to give and file
such bond the clerk of the court shall be appointed such guardian, in which
case the court or judge may dispense with his giving such bond. 
SEC. 3105. Any defendant may .deny the joint
tenancy or tenancy in common cf any co-defendant, and any issue of fact be­
tween the parties may be tried by a jury as in other cases. 
SEC. 3106. Either before or after the trial of such
issue the court may permit the complaint and all subsequent proceedings to
be amended so as to represent truly the rights claimed by any party or so as
to make any person a defendant who shall nave appeared in the course of the
proceedings to be interested in the premises, and who might originally have
been made a defendant if his interest had then existed or been known; but
no person shall be so made a defendant, unless by his consent, without eight
days' notice of the motion to this effect being personally served on him or
published once in each week, successively, for one month in such paper as the
court may direct. 
SEC. 3107. After such amendment any
party whose rights are or may be affected thereby may serve an answer or
amended answer to the complaint, within such time as shall be fixed by the
court, not less than twenty days, and may maintain his claim or defense, as
the circumstances of the case may render proper. 
SEC. 8108. In case 
any or all the defendants fail to answer the complaint proof shall be made of
the allegations thereof, and if any issues are made, after trial thereof, the court,
upon the proofs made in either case, shall determine the rights of the parties,
and by order declare the rights, titles and interests of the several parties to
the premises, and direct that partition be made between such of them as shall
be proved to have any right, title or interest therein, according to such rights, titles and interests. 
SEC. 3109.
If the right or interest in such premises of any party who has not appeared or
answered, whether known or unknown, shall not be made to appear by the
proofs so taken the court shall order that partition be made, so far as the
rights and interests of the parties who are known and who have appeared or
answered have been ascertained, and the residue of the premises shall remain
for the parties whose interests have not been ascertained, subject to partition
among them at any future time. 
SEC. 3110. Such order for partition shall contain
a clause referring it to a proper person to inquire into the situation of the
premises and to report w beth er the premises or any part of them are so cir­
cumstanced that a partition thereof among the parties interested cannot be
made without great prejudice to the owners, and also to inquire and report
whether the interest of the parties will be promoted by platting the property
sought to be partitioned or any part thereof. 
SEC. 3111. If,
upon the coming of such report, the court shall be satisfied that the partition
of the premises can be made without great prejudice to the owners it shall, 
by order, appoint three disinterested freeholders commissioners to make the
partition so adjudged and according to the rights and interests of the parties
as so ascertained; and in such order the part or shares, if any, which shall re.
main undivided for the owners whose interests have not been ascertained shall
be designated; and if, also, upon the coming in of said report the court shall
be satisfied that the interests of the parties will be promoted by platting the
premises or any part thereof, it shall, by the same order, direct such commis­
sioners to make and acknowledge a plat of such premises or a part thereof, to
be designated, laying out streets, roads and alleys therein as they may deem
most beneficial to the owners; which plat, when made, approved by the court
and recorded as other plats are required to be recorded bv law, shall have the
same effect and validity as if duly made by the parties to" the action pursuant 
to chapter 101. When such plat is so made, approved and recorded partition
or sale if ordered may be made in accordance therewith. 
SEC. 3112. If either of the persons so appointed
commissioners shall die, resign or ne~Iect or refuse to serve the court may, 
from time to time, appoint others in tneir places. Before proceeding to the
execution of their duties they shall be severally sworn honestly and impartially
to make partition as directed by the court, which oath shall be filed with the
clerk of the court on or before the coming in of their report. 
SEC. 3113. In making partition they shall di­
vide the said real estate and allot the several portions or shares thereof to the
respective parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, according to the
respective rights and interests of the parties as so declared in said order of
the court, designating the several shares and portions by posts, stones or other
permanent monuments; and, if necessary, they may employ a surveyor with
necessary assistants to aid them in the discharge of their duties. 
SEC. 3114. All the commission­
ers must meet together in the performance of any of their duties, but the acts
of a majority so met shall be valid. They shall report in writing, under the hand
of any two of them, specifying the manner of executing their trust and de­
scribing the land divided and the shares allotted to each party, with conven­
ient certainty, and the items of their charges. Their expenses, including those
of a surveyor and assistants, shall be subject to the approval of the court and,
with the compensation allowed by the court for their sen ices, shall be paid by 
the plaintiff and allowed as part of the costs to be taxed. 
SEC. 3115. On good cause shown the court·
may set aside the report and refer the case to the same, or appoint new, com­
missioners as often as may be necessary, who shall proceed in like manner as 
hereinbefore directed. 
SEC. 8116. No­ 
tice of the application to confirm said report shall be given to all the parties
that have appeared, and upon confirmation thereof judgment shall be entered
that the partition so ordered and made be firm and effectual forever, and such
judgment shall be final and conclusive: 
1. On all the parties to such action and their legal representatives, except as
hereinbefore provided and as provided in the next section. 
2. On all persons interested in the premises who may be unknown, who shall 
be served in such action as provided by law.
3. On all persons claiming or to claim from such parties or persons or either 
of them, subsequent to the filing of the notice of the pendency of the action. ·
A copy of such report and judgment, certified to be such in the manner re­ 
quired by law to make them evidence, shall be recorded in each county in
which any part of the. premises are situated, and the expense of such copy and
record shall be taxed in the costs, 
SEC. 3117. Such judgment shall not
affect any tenants or persons having claims as tenants in dower, by the curtesy,
for life or for years in the whole of the premises; nor shall it preclude any
person, except those mentioned in the preceding and not excepted in this sec·
tioo, from claiming any title to such premises or from controverting the title
or interest of the parties between whom partition is made. 
SEC. 8118. Such judgment must.
direct that each of the parties who is entitled to the immediate possession of·
a distinct parcel allotted to him be let into the possession thereof immediately
or after the determination of a particular estate, as the case may require. If 
any party or his legal representatives withhold possession thereof from the·
party adjudged to be entitled thereto or his legal representatives he may be
punished for his disobedience as for a contempt, and the court may make an
order or issue a writ of assistance directing the sheriff to put such party or his.
legal representatives in possession thereof, which order shall be executed as if
it were an execution. 
SEC. 3119. If.the person to whom·
the reference is made, as provided in section 3010, shall report that the prem­ 
ises or any distinct portion thereof are so situated that partition thereof can·
not be made without great prejudice to the owners, the court, if satisfied that
such is the fact, may make an order directing the sheriff or a referee to sell
the rremises so situated at public auction to the highest bidder. Such order
sbal direct the terms of credit which may be allowed for any portion of the­
purchase-money, of which the court shall think proper to direct the investment,
or as is required by the provisions hereinafter contained to be invested for the
benefit of any unknown owners, infants, non-residents or tenants for life, years, 
dower or by the ourtesy.
SEC. 3120. Before making such order of sale 
if any creditor having lien, by judgment, mortgage or otherwise, upon the un­
divided interest or estate of any of the parties-has not been made a party the
court shall direct the complaint to be amended so as to make him a party, and
in such order of sale shall direct the sheriff to pay to the clerk of the court the
portion of the moneys arising from the sale of the interest or estate to which
such lien attaches, after deducting its proportion of the costs of such sale, which
proportion shall be fixed by the court. 
SEC. 3121. Whenever the estate
of any tenant in dower, by the curtesy, for life or for years in the whole or
any 'Part or share of the premises has been ascertained by the court and is 
ex1stmg at the time of the order for such sale, and the person entitled to such
estate is a party to the action the court shall determine whether, under all
the circumstances of the case, such estate ought to be excepted from such sale
and may so provide in such order. If a sale of the premises, including such
estate, is ordered such estate shall pass thereby, and the purchaser, his heirs
and assigns shall have the same discharged from all claim by virtue of such
estate. 
SEC. 3122. The sher­
iff or referee shall give notice of such sale for the same time and in the same
manner as is required by law for sales of real estate on execution. The terms
of sale shall be made known at the time thereof, and if the premises consist
of distinct lots, tracts or parcels they shall be sold separately. Neither the
sheriff or referee nor any person for his benefit shall purchase at such sale or
be interested directly or indirectly in any purchase of the premises sold; nor
shall any guardian of a ward purchase or be interested in any way in the pur­
chase of any of the premises except for the benefit or on behalf ol such ward;
and all sales to the contrary hereof shall be void. 
SEC. 3123. The portions of the pur­
chase-money for which credit shall be allowed shall always be secured, at in­
terest, by a mortgage of the premises sold, by the bond of the purchaser and
by such other security as the court shall prescribe; and the sheriff or referee
may take separate mortgages and other securities for such convenient shares
or portions of the purchase-money as are directed by the court to be invested,
in the name of the clerk of the court where the action is pending and his suc­
cessors in office, and for such shares as any known owner of full age shall de­
sire to have so invested, in the name of such owner. Upon such sales being
confirmed, as hereinafter mentioned, such sheriff or referee shall deliver such
mortgages and other securities to the clerk or to the known owners whose
share was so invested, 
SEC. 3124. After completing such sale the sheriff or
referee shall report the same to the court, with a description of the different 
parcels of land sold to each purchaser, the name of such purchaser and the price
bid by him, which report shall be filed in the court.
SEC. 3125. If the sale is con­
firmed by the court judgment shall be entered directing the sheriff or referee
to execute convevances pursuant thereto and also directing the application of 
the proceeds of such sale. Such judgment, and conveyances executed pursu­
ant thereto, are binding upon the persons named in section 3116, and shall
effectually bar each of such persons from all right, title and interest in the
property sold, not purchased by him. 
SEC. 3126. Unless the court otherwise direct the
costs of every party to the action must be deducted from the proceeds of the
sale and paid to his attorney; but the court may, in its discretion, direct.
the costs and expenses of any trial, reference or other proceeding in the action 
to be paid out of the share of any party in such proceeds or may render judg­
ment against any party therefor. 
SEC. 8127. ·The proceeds of every
sale shall be paid into court by the she~iff or referee with his report, and, after 
deducting costs, shall be divided among the parties whose rights or interests.
have been sold in proportion to their respective rights in the premises. The
sum chargeable upon any share to satisfy the lien of any creditor shall be paid 
to him as hereinafter provided and, except as thus provided, the share of such
of the parties as shall be of full age shall be paid to them when not hereinafter
otherwise provided. 
SEC. 8128. Any creditor, being
a party to the action, having such lien upon any undivided share or interest 
in the premises sold, or any party owning such share, may app1y to the court
to order the amount due such creditor to be paid, which application shall be
accompanied with: 
1. An affidavit stating the amount actually due uf.on such incumbranoe or
lien and the name and residence of the owner thereo , to be made by the party
applying, his agent or attorney. 
2. An affidavit showing service of a notice of such application by the party
applying upon the other party, eithor personally or by leaving a copy of it at 
his residence, if absent therefrom, with some person of his household of proper
age, at least fourteen days previously. If the party to be served with such
notice reside out of the state the notice may be served personally or published
in such newspaper as the court may direct, three weeks successively, once in
each week immediately previous to such application, of which publication proof
must be filed. 
SEC. 3129. Upon such application and proof of
notice the court shall proceed to hear the proofs and allegations of the parties;
and if any question of fact shall arise which, in the opinion of the court, can­
not be satisfactorily determined without a trial by jury the court shall direct
an issue to be made, which shall be tried as in other cases, and the costs of 
such trial shall be paid by the party failing, which payment shall be enforced
as in other cases. 
SEC. 8130. When the amount
of the existing unsatisfied incumbrances or liens upon any undivided shares
shall have been ascertained the court must order a distribution of the money
pertaining to such shares to be made among the creditors having such incum­
brances or liens according to the priority thereof, respectively; and the clerk
of the court shall procure satisfaction thereof to be acknowledged as required
by law and cause such incumbrance or lien to be duly satisfied and canceled
of record, and the expenses thereof shall be paid bv or out of the money be­
longing to the party by whom such incumbrance was payable.
SEC. 3131. The proceedings to'
ascertain and settle the amount of inoumbrances, as herein provided, shall not
affect anv other party in such action nor delay the paying over or investing
the moneys to or for the benefit of any party upon whose estate in the premises
there shall not appear to be any existing incumbranoe. 
SEC. 3132. Where any known party
.is an infant the court may, in its discretion, direct his share to be paid to h18
general guardian or to be invested in permanent securities, at interest, in his 
name and for his benefit, 
SEC. 3133. When a party whose
interest has been sold is absent from the state, without legal representatives
in this state and has not appeared in the action, or is unknown, or not named
in the proceedings, the court shall direct his share to be invested in permanent
securities, at interest, for his benefit until claimed by him or his legal repre­ 
senta ti ms. 
SEC. 3134. When the proceeds of a
sale belonging to any tenant in dower, or by the curtesy, for life or for years
shall be brought into court as hereinbefore provided the court shall direct the
same to be invested in permanent securities, at interest, so that such interest
shall annually be paid to the parties entitled to such estate during their lives,
respectively, except as otherwise provided in the next section. 
SEC. 3135. Any party to the ac­ 
tion who bas a right of dower, vested or inchoate, or is a tenant in dower, by
the curtesy, for life or for years shall be entitled to receive from the proceeds
of the sale a gross sum, to be fixed according to the principles of law appli­
cable to annuities, in satisfaction of his or her estate or interest. The written 
consent, sealed, witnessed and acknowledged as a conveyance of such party to
receive such gross sum, must be filed at or before the tiling of the report of
sale; otherwise the court shall direct that out of the proceeds of sale one-third,
in case of a dowress whose right is vested, and in case of estates by the curtesy
or for life the entire proceeds, or in case of an inchoate right of dower its
proportionable value according to the principles of law applicable to annuities
and survivorsbips, and in case of an estate for years such proportionate part
thereof as fairly represents the interest of the holder of the estate, shall be in­
vested for his or her benefit; and if any person entitled to any such estate is
unknown the court shall provide for the protection of his rights in the same
manner as if he was known and had appeared. In all oases the proper pro­
portion of expenses shall be deducted from the proceeds of sale. 
SEC. 8136. The court may, in its discretion, re­
quire all or any of the parties, before they shall receive any share of the moneys
arising from such sales, to give security to the satisfaction of such court to re. 
fund the said share, with interest thereon, in case it shall thereafter appear
that such party was not entitled thereto. 
SEC. 3137. When any security is directed to
be taken by the court or any investment to be made, or any security shall be
taken by a sheriff or referee on the sale of any real estate, as heretofore di­
rected, except where provision shall be made for taking the same in· the name
of any known owner, the bonds, mortgages or other evidences thereof shall be
taken in the name of the clerk of the court in whose office the original com­
plaint was filed and his successors in office, who shall hold the same by virtue
of his office and shall deliver them to his successor. 
SEC. 8138. Such
clerk shall receive the interest or principal of any sums as they become due
and apply or reinvest the same according to the circumstances of the case, as
the court r 'iall direct, and shall, once in every year, render to the court an ao­ 
count in writing and on oath of all moneys received by him and of the appli­
cation thereof. 
SEC. 8139. All investments or reinvest­
ments under the provisions of this chapter shall be made on bond and mort­
gage upon unincumbered real estate of at least double the value of such
mvestment, exclusive of buildin~s, er in other equivalent security; and no such
security, bond, mortgage or other evidence of such investment shall be dis­
charged, transferred or impaired by any act of the clerk without the order of
the court duly entered of record. 
SEC. 3140. Any person interested in
such investment may, with the leave of the court, prosecute the same in the
name of the existing clerk, and no action shall be a bated by the expiration of
office, death, removal from oflice or resignation of the clerk to w horn such
securities or evidences were executed or of any of his successors. 
SEC. 3141. Whenever
partition shall be adjudged in any action, if it shall appear that it cannot be
made equal between the parties without prejudice to the rights or interests of
some of them, the court may provide in its judgment that compensation be
made by one party to the other for equality of partition, according to the
equity of the case; and where any party has, with the knowledge or assent of
the others or any of them, m_ade 1mp~ovements upon lands partitioned the
portion of such lands upon which such improvements have been made may be
allotted to such party without computing in their value the value of such
improvements. 
SEC. 3142. The judgment confirming the parti­
tion made shall adjudge that each of the parties, otuer than the plaintiff, pay 
to him a proportion of the costs and charges of the proceedings, to be ascer­
tained by the court; and the proportion of such costs and charges adjudged
to be paid by the unknown owners shall be adjudged to be a charge upon the
part remaining undivided. Execution may issue for such costs as in other
cases, and may be levied upon the property of the parties respectively charged
therewith, and a sale of the premises allotted to such unknown owner, upon
such execution, shall be as valid as if he had been named in the proceedings
and in such execution. If the complaint be dismissed or the action discontin­
ned the plaintiff shall be adjudged to pay costs as in other cases. He shall
also pav the costs when the defendant does not appear, unless the complaint
asks partition or sale of all the lands owned by the parties of which partition
may be had or unless the defendant is personally served in the action ..
SEC. 3143. Any of the parties to an action for the partition
or sale of any premises under the provisions of this chapter and anv party in­
terested in the premises, though not named in the proceedings, may jointly or
separately and without the consent of any co-plaintiff or co-defendant appeal 
from any judgment or order of the court upon any such proceedings within
the same time and under the like regulations as in other cases. 
SEC. 3144. Whenever
the general guardian of any infant or the husband of any married woman
who is an infant and has no general guardian, or the guardian, resident, non­
resident or foreign, of any idiot, lunatic, spendthrift or person mentally inca­
pable of mana&"ing his own affairs, residing in or out of this state, shall appl v 
m writing to the circuit court of the county in which the lands of his ward
or such infant married woman lie, stating that such ward or infant married
woman owns interests in lands in such county which would authorize such
ward or infant married woman to be made a party to an action for a parti­
tion thereof and that the interest of such person or of any other person in­
terested in such lands requires a partition thereof, such court shall refer such
application to some person to inquire into and report upon the circumstances 
stated; and upon the coming in of the referee's report and after a hearing
and examination of the matter the court may authorize such guardian or the
husband of such infant married woman to agree upon a partition or a sale of
the whole interest of such ward or infant married woman in such lands or of
such part thereof as, in the opinion of the court, shall be capable of partition,
or as shall be most for the interest of such ward or infant married woman to
have sold. In case of such application by a non-resident or foreign guardian 
it shall be accompanied with a duly certified copy of his appointment and
bond, if any.
SEC. 3145. Such guardian
or husband shall report to the court, on oath, the partition or sale so agreed
to be made bv him and the conveyances agreed to be made by the other par­
ties interested to such ward or infant married woman, whereupon the court
mav, bv order, in its discretion, and if in its judgment the interest of said ward
or infant married woman will be promoted therebv, confirm such report and
authorize such guardian or husband to execute conveyances of such parts of
such lands as have been agreed to be sold and to execute all conveyances of the
right and interest of such ward or infant married woman necessarv to effectuate
the partition agreed upon and as shall fall to the share of the other persons
having rights and interests in such lands, and to receive from such persons con­ 
veyanoes a.greed to be made by them. 
SEC. 3146. Such conveyances shall be as 
valid and effectual to convey the share and interest of such ward or married
woman as if the same had been duly executed and acknowledged by them, re­
spectively, after arriving at full age, and of such idiot, lunatic, spendthrift or
person mentally incapable of managing his own affairs as if the same bad been
duly executed and acknowledged by them respectively, when of sound mind
and understanding and not subject to or under guardianship. In case of the
sale of any part of such real estate belonging to an infant the court may make
all necessary orders for securing, investing and applying the proceeds of the
sale and for requiring security from his guardian for that purpose. 
SEC. 8147.
When any lands shall be held by the state and by individuals as tenants in
oommon proceedings for the partition thereof may be had against the state in
the circuit court in the same manner as against individuals, and the like orders
and judgments shall be had therein, and the proportion of the costs and ex­ 
penses of such partition, adjudged to be paid by the state, shall be certified by
the attorney-general and paid out of the state treasury on the warrant of the
secretary of state. The summons and all notices required to be served shall
be served on the attorney-general, who shall appear in behalf of the state and
attend to its interests. 
SEC. 3148. This chapter shall
not authorize the revival or prosecution of any claim to lands which would,
or otherwise might, be barred by the statute of limitation or by the acquies­
cence of any party having any such claim. 
SEC. 8149.· In case of disagreement between owners of
·water-powers or between owners of any rights or interests therein, respecting 
their rights as such owners, or the use of the waters of such power, or the ex- 
pense of repairs of dams or other structures required for the operation, main­
tenance or preservation of the same, or other necessary expenses incident tr,
the care, management, maintenance or {>reservation of such water-power either
party may bring an action in the circuit court as hereinafter provided for a
determination of any or all such matters of disagreement or difference or for 
a partition of any property pertaining to such water-power held by the party
bringing such action and any other of such owners as joint tenants or tenants
in common.
SEC. 8150. Such action shall be 
brought and the persons parties thereto shall be served with process therein
as in proceedings under this chapter for the partition of lands, and when so
served or having so appeared, upon its being shown to be necessary or expedi­
ent in order to determine the rights of the parties, the court may, by order,
appoint one or more commissioners and empower and direct them to examine
into any matters complained of, and upon reasonable notice to the owners or
occupants of such water-power to enter upon and take control of the mills,
machinery, flumes, gates, wheels and other appurtenances of such water-power
and to exercise such reasonable control of the same for such reasonable time
and in such reasonable manner as will enable them to ascertain the respective
rights of the parties and to determine the manner of using, applying and pre­
serving the same. 
SEC. 8151. Said commission­
ers shall, before entering upon their duties, take and file in said court an oath
to faithfully perform their duties as such; shall proceed with reasonable dis­
patch to investigate the matters referred to them by such order and take all
competent, pertrnent evidence offered by any parties to the action, touching 
such matters; such evidence to be taken upon notice given to all parties to
the suit as in ordinary cases of trial by referees, and apply such tests as the
nature of the case may require to ascertain and determine tbe rights of the
parties and the manner of using and exercising such rights, interrupting as
little as may be the operations of the owners or occupants of such water­
power in the use thereof; shall determine the rights of the parties and the
manner of the use of such water-power and apportion or determine the basis
for the apportionment of such expenses between the persons or parties liable
to contribute therefor; and shall report their determination with all the facts
and a full statement of their experiments and the evidence taken by them to
the court, which determination shall be binding upon the parties until changed
or modified by the court. In investigating and determining the matters re­
ferred to them such commissioners may also, if so ordered by the court at the
time of the appointruen t of said commissioners or at any time thereafter upon
due notice, consider and act upon an;v and all data of experiments, observa­
tions and measurements relating to such water-power, previously made by 
competent engineers and mill w rigbts, reporting all such data considered and
acted upon by them to the court as above provided.
SEC. 3152. Upon the coming in
of the report of such commissioners and upon hearing the parties the court 
before which the proceedings are pending shall make such order and enter
such judgment as the respective rights of the parties shall require, confirming
or modifying the determination of said commissioners, or for the purpose or
more fully determining the rights of such parties may continue such commis­
sioners and upon reasonable notice, on the application of either party in­
terested, order a re-examination of any of the matters complained of or the
examination of any new matter, and from time to time modify its judgment
until the rights of the parties and the manner of exercising the same shall be
fully settled and defined. Any issue of fact in any such action, properly triable
by Jury, may be tried by jury with like effect as in other cases; and any juclg·
men t or order therein, within the class of appealable orders, may be reviewed
by the supreme court. If the place of trial of any such action be changed and
a judgment be rendered in any county other than that in which the water­
power in question is situate and the judgment roll therein or a certified oopy
thereof be afterwards transmitted to the clerk of the circuit court of the
county wherein such water-power is situate, as provided for in section 2901a,
all subsequent proceedings for the examination or re-examination of any mat­
ters complained of and for the modification and enforcement of such judgment
may be had in the circuit court of the county wherein such water-power is sit­
uate and with the same force and effect as if such judgment had been rendered
by such court; provided, that if such change of the place of trial was made on
the ground of prejudice of the judge of such court he shall not preside on the
trial or hearing of any such subsequent proceedings, but shall request another
circuit judge to preside, unless the party filing the affidavit of prejudice shall
have ceased to be interested or shall waive objection. 
SEC. 3153. The court before which such proceedings are pend·
ing may, in its discretion, from time to time, make such orders as may be nec­
essary for the payment of the commissioners herein provided for and the other
costs and disbursements therein, and may apportion the same among the re­
spective owners in the ratio of their respective interests. 
SEC. 3154. In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages
upon real estate, if the plaintiff recover, the court shall render judgment of
foreclosure and sale, as hereinafter provided, of the mortgaged premises or
such part thereof as mav be sufficient to pay the amount adjudged to be due
upon the mortgage andobligation secured thereby, with costs. 
SEC. 3155. The proceeds of every
sale made under such judgment shall be applied to the discharge of the debt
adjudged by such court to be due and the costs awarded; and if there shall
be any surplus it shall be brought into court Ior the use of the defendant or
the person who may be entitled thereto, subject to the order of the court. If
such surplus or any part thereof shall remain in the said court for the term
of three months, without being applied for, the court shall direct the same to 
be put out at interest for the benefit of the defendant, his representatives or
assigns, to be paid to them by the order of such court. 
SEC. 8156. In all such actions the plaint­
iff may in his complaint unite with his claim for a foreclosure and sale a de­
mand for judgment for any deficiency which may remain due to the plaintiff
after sale of the mortgaged premises against every party who may be person­
ally liable for the debt secured by the mortgage, whether the mortgagor or
other persons, if upon the same contract which the mortgage is given to
secure; and judgment of foreclosure and sale, and also for any such deficiency
remaining after applying the proceeds of sale to the amount adjudged to be
due for principal, interest and costs, may in such case be rendered. Such 
judgment for deficiency shall be ordered in the original judgment and sepa­
rate1y rendered against the party liable on or after the coming in and con­
firmation of the report of sale, and be docketed and enforced as in other cases. 
SEC. 8157. Whenever an action shall be commenced for the foreclosure of any
mortgage upon which there shall be due any interest or any portion or instal­ 
ment of the principal and there shall be other portions or instalments to be­
come due subsequently the action shall be dismissed upon the defendant's bring­
ing into court, at any time before judgment, the principal and interest duel 
with the costs. If after judgment ts entered in such case the defendant shal
bring into court the principal and interest due, with the costs, proceedings on
the Judgment shall be stayed; but the court may enforce the judgment by a
further order, upon a subsequent default in the payment of any portion or in­
stalment of the principal, or of any interest thereafter to grow due.
SEC. 3158. If in the cases mentioned in the last pre­
ceding section the defendant shall not, before judgment, bring into court the
amount so due with costs the court before rendering judgment or the judge
thereof shall direct a reference to some proper person to ascertain and report
the situation of the mortgaged premises and whether they can be sold in par­
cels without injury to the interests of the parties; and if it shall appear that
they can be so. sold the judgment shall direct a sale in parcels, specifying
them, or so much thereof as will be sufficient to pay the amount due for prin­
cipal, interest and costs; and such judgment shall remain as security for any
subsequent default. 
SEC. 8169. If, in the case men­
tioned in the preceding section, there shall be any default subsequent to such
judgment in the payment of any portion· or instalment of the principal or of
any interest due upon such mortgage the court may, upon petition of the
plaintiff, by a further order, founded upon such first judgment, direct a sale
of so much of the mortgaged premises, to be made under the said judgment,
as will be sufficient to satisfy the amount so due, with the costs of such peti­
tion and the subsequent proceedings thereon; and the same proceedings shall
be bad as often as a default shall happen. 
SEC. 3160. If, in any of the foregoing cases, it shall appear to the court that
the mortgaged premises are so situated that they cannot be sold in parcels
without injury to the interests of the parties or that the sale of the whole will
be most beneficial to them the court may adjudge the sale of the whole ac­
cordingly, in which case the proceeds of sale, after deducting the costs of the
action and of sale, shall be applied to the payment of the sums then due and
also to become due thereafter; deducting from all sums not due, which do not
hear interest, interest from the time of payment to the time when the same
are payable; or the court may direct the balance of the proceeds of sale, after
payrng the sum then due with such costs, to be placed at interest for the bene­ 
fit of the plaintiff, to be paid to him as such subsequent payments or instal­
ments shall become due, with the interest thereon. The surplus, after paying
the amount due the plaintiff and such costs, shall, in all cases, be paid to the 
defendant, his representatives or assigns, or to the party equitably entitled
thereto on the order of the court. 
SEC. 3161. 
In any action for the foreclosure of a mortgage, at any time after judgment
and before a sale pursuant thereto, the plainti~ may be granted leave to amend
the summons, complaint and all the proceedings in the action by making as
defendant any person who is a proper or necessary party thereto. Such per­
son so made a party shall be served with the summons in like manner as if 
originally a party, and may answer and defend, and all matters and proceed­
ings as to him shall be bad and taken in like manner as if he had been orig­
inally made a party thereto. After such person has been thus made a party
and served and his rights adjudicated upon the original judgment may be so
amended as to bar and foreclose him thereby, or to make any provisions in
regard to his riS"hts and interests in like manner as it could have done had he
been made origmally a party. 
SEC. 3162. 
In all such actions, if the plaintiff shall recover, the judgment shall fix the
amount of the mortgage debt then due and also the amount of eaoh instalment
thereafter to grow due and the several times when they will become so due,
and shall adjudge that the mortgaged premises be sold for the payment of the
amount adjudged to be then due and of all instalments which shall thereafter
grow due before the sale or so much thereof as may be sufficient to pay such
amount for principal, interest and costs, including costs of sale, and, when de­
manded in the complaint, an order directing that judgment be rendered for
any deficiency against the parties personally liable therefor; but no such sale
shall be made until the expiration of one year from the date of suoh judgment
or order of sale; and when judgment is for instalments due and to grow due
and payment shall be made within the year of the instalments found due at
the date of the judgment, with interest and oosts, no sales shall be made upon 
any instalment growing due after the date of the judgment until the expira­
tion of one year after the same shall become due; but in all oases the parties
may, by stipulation in writing, to be filed with the clerk, consent to an earlier 
sale. The provisions of this section shall not apply to judgments of foreclosure
and sale of mortgages given by any railroad corporation, but such sales may
be made immediately after the rendition- of the judgment. 
SEC. 8163. If any defendant appear and an­
swer that any portion of the mortgaged premises is a homestead the court shall
ascertain whether such be the fact, and if so whether the part of the mortga~ed
premises not included in the homestead can be sold separately therefrom with­
out injury to the interests of the parties, and in that case shall direct in the
judgment that the homestead shall not be sold until all the other mortgaged
lands have been sold. 
SEC. 3164. The amount adjudged to be due in the
judgment shall draw interest at the rate provided to be paid on the mortgage
debt, but shall not exceed the minimum legal rate of interest, from its date 
until the date of sale or payment, and all the instalments which shall become
due after the date of such judgment shall draw interest at the same rate from
the time the same shall become due. The court may also in the judgment en­
join the defendants and all persons claiming under them from committing any
waste or doing any act that may impair the value of such premises at any
time after the <late of the judgment. 
SEC. 3165. The
mortgagor, his heirs, personal representatives or assigns may redeem the mort­
gaged premises from the effect of said judgment and the lien of the mortgage
thereon at any time before the sale of such premises by paying to the clerk of
the court in which the judgment was rendered, or to the plaintiff therein, or
any assignee thereof, or to liis attorney the amount of such judgment, interest
thereon as aforesaid and costs, and any costs subsequent to such judgment, and
any sums paid by the plaintiff subsequent to the judgment for, or in redemption
of, taxes assessed upon the mortgaged premises, with interest thereon from the
date of payment, at the same rate. On payment to such clerk as aforesaid or
on filing the receipt of the plaintiff or his assigns or attorney for such pay·
ment in the office of said clerk be shall thereupon dischar~e such judgment, and
a certificate of such discharge, duly recorded in the office of the register of
deeds, shall discharge such mortgage of record to the extent of the sum so paid.. 
SEC. 3166. In case the mortgagor, his heirs, rep.
resentatives or assigns shall desire to pav a portion of such judgment, taxes,
interest and costs, so as to relieve any distinct lot or parcel of the premises
which can be sold separately under such judgment from the lien thereof and of
such mortgage thereon, the court, on application of such person and on notice
to the parties to the action, may, if the amount to be paid therefor is not agreed
upon, ascertain and adjud$'e the proportion of such judgment, taxes, interest
and costs to be paid for the purpose aforesaid; and when the amount so ad­
judged shall be paid as aforesaid it shall relieve suoh distinct lot or parcel from 
such judgment and the lien of such mortgage thereon and shall satisfy such
judgment to the amount so paid. Any heir, devisee, grantee or assignee of the
mortgagor, owning an undivided interest in the mort~aged premises, subject to
the lien of the mortgage, may redeem such undivided interest from such judg­
ment and the lien of the mortgage thereon by paying as aforesaid a. sum that 
will bear the same proportion to the whole of such judgment, taxes, oosts and
interest as the interest proposed to be redeemed bears to the whole of the mort­
gaged premises. 
SEC. 8167. Anv
person having a lien, acquired at any time before the sale, upon the mortgaged 
premises or any part thereof or interest therein, subsequent to the lien of any
such mortgage, may also, at any time before such sale, pay to the clerk of said
court, or the plaintiff in such Judgment, or any assignee thereof or to his at­
torney the amount of such judgment, taxes, interest thereon as aforesaid and
oosts, and any costs subsequent to such judgment, and shall thereupon be sub­
rogated to all the rights of the plaintiff as to such judgment, with full power
to enforce the same, unless the same shall have been paid by the mortgagor or
person personally liable for the mortgage debt as provided in the preceding  sections, 
SEC. 3168. The sheriff or referee who
makes sale of mortgaged premises, under a judgment therefor, shall give no­
tice of the time and plaoe of sale in the manner provided by law for the sale
of real estate upon execution or in such other manner as the court shall in the
judgment direct. He shall, within ten days thereafter, file with the clerk of
the court a report of the sale, and immediately after the sale shall pay to the
parties entitled thereto or their attorneys the proceeds of the sale, after de­
ducting the cost thereof, unless otherwise ordered by the court. 
SEC. 3169. Upon any such sale being
made the sheriff or referee making the same, on compliance with its terms,
shall make, execute and deliver to the purchaser a deed of the premises sold,
setting forth each parcel of land sold to him and the sum paid therefor, which
deed, upon the confirmation of such sale, shall vest in the rurchaser all the
right, title and interest of the mortga~or, his heirs, persona representatives
and assigns in and to the premises sold and shall be a bar to all claim, right
or equity of redemption therein, of and against the parties to such action,
their heirs and personal representatives, and also against all persons claiming
under them subsequent to the filing of the notice of the pendency of the ac­
tion in which such judgment was rendered; and the purchaser, his heirs and
assigns shall be let into the possession of the premises so sold on production
of such deed or a duly certified copy thereof, and the court may, if necessary,
issue a writ of assistance to deliver such possession.
SEC. 3170. The circuit courts have jurisdiction of actions
for waste and may grant injunctions to stay or prevent waste. 
SEC. 3171. If any guardian or any tenant by the cnrtesy,
tenant in dower, or for a term of life or years, or the assigns of any such ten­
ant shall commit or suffer any waste during their several terms or estates of
the houses, gardens, orchards, lands or woods or of any other thing belonging 
to the tenements so held, without having a lawful license in writing so to do,
they shall respectively be liable to an action for such waste. 
SEC. 8172. In case any
such tenant shall let or grant his estate and still retain possession thereof and 
commit waste the party entitled to the reversion of the tenements may main­
tain his action for such waste against such tenant. 
SEC. 3173. If one joint tenant or tenant
in common shall ·commit waste of the estate held in joint tenancy or in com­
mon he shall be subject to an action for such waste at the suit of his co-tenant
or co-tenants. 
SEC. 3174. An heir, whether of full age or not, after
coming into possession of the inheritance, may maintain an action for waste
done in the time of his· ancestor as well as in his own time unless a recovery 
shall have been had therefor by the executor or administrator of such ancestor. 
SEC. 3175. Such action may be
brought by the person having the next immediate estate in fee or for life or 
years in the premises in question or by any person who has the remainder or
reversion in fee or for life after an intervening estate for life or years; and
each of them shall recover damages according to his estate in the premises. 
SEC. 3176. If the plaintiff in such action prevail therein he
shall have judgment for double the amount of damages found by the jury.
SEC. 3177. The pur­
chaser or his assigns holding any certificate of sale of real estate duly issued
upon any sale for taxes, or upon execution, or by virtue of a power of sale in.
a mortgage may have an action to restrain the commission of waste during 
the period of redemption, and if no redemption shall be made and a deed shall
be issued pursuant to such certificate the grantee or bis assigns may, in such
action or by a subsequent action, recover damages against any person for any
waste committed by such person on the premises after such sale. But no per­
son lawfully entitled to the possession of any premises so sold shall be liable to
any such action for doing either of the acts authorized in the next section.
SEC. 3178. Any person entitled to the possession of
lands sold as mentioned in the preceding section may, until the expiration of
the time given by law for the redemption thereof, use and enjoy the same with­
out being liable to an action of waste therefor, as follows: 
1. He may use and enjoy the premises sold in like manner and for the like
purposes in and for which they were used and applied prior to such sale, doing
no permanent injury to the freehold. 
9. If the premises sold were buildings, fences or any other erections he may
make necessary repairs thereto, but he shall make no alterations in the form
or structures t'bereof so as to impair or lessen their value. 
8. He may use and improve the land so sold in the ordinary course of hus­
bandry or mining, and he shall be entitled to any crop growing thereon at the
expiration of the period of redemption. 
4. He may apply any wood or timber on such land to the necessary repairs
of anv fences, buildings or erections existing thereon at the time of such sale. 
6. If the land sold is actually occupied by such person he may take the neces­
sary firewood therefrom for the use of himself or family. 
SEC. 3179. If, after the commencement of any action for
waste or to restrain waste, or anv action for the recovery of land or the pos­
session or partition thereof or after any real estate has been levied upon by
execution, any party to such action or execution shall commit waste or shall
threaten or make preparations to commit waste upon the lands, tenements, or
anything appertaining thereto, he may be restrained by injunction from com­
mitting any waste or further waste thereto. Such injunction may be issued in
any of said actions or in cases of the levy above mentioned by the court from
which the execution issued. 
SEC. 8180. The circuit courts shall have jurisdiction of
actions to recover damages for and to abate private nuisances or a public nui­
sance from which any person suffers a private or special injurv peculiar to
himself, so far as necessary to protect the rights of such person, and to grant
injunctions to prevent the same; and in case such nuisance may work an ir­
reparable injury, interminable litigation, a multiplicity of actions, or either,
or the injury is continuous and constantly recurring, or there is not an ade­
quate remecly at law, or the injury is not susceptible of adequate compensa­
tion in damages at law, then an action in equity may be maintained and an
injunction be issued therein, and an ~uitable action may be brought before
the nuisance or the infringement of plaintiff's right is established at law. 
SEC. 3181. In such actions, when the plaintiff prevails,
he shall, in addition to the usual judgment for' damages and costs, also have
judgment that the nuisance be abated and removed unless the court in which
such action shall be tried shall certify, in the minutes of such trial, that the
abatement thereof is unnecessary. 
SEC. 3182. In case of judgment that the
nuisance be abated and removed the plaintiff shall have execution in the com­
mon form for his damages and costs and a separate warrant to the proper
officer requiring him to abate and remove the nuisance at the expense of the 
defendant. 
SEC. 3183. The court may, on the applica­
tion of the defendant, order a· stay of such warrant for such time as may be 
necessary, not exceeding six months, to give him an opportunity to remove the
nuisance, upon his giving satisfactory security to do so within the time speoi­
fled in the order. 
SEC. 3184. The exrense of abat­
ing and removing such nuisance pursuant to such warrant shal be collected
by the officer in the same manner as damages and costs are collected upon
execution; and such officer may sell any material of any fences, buildings or
other things abated or removed as a nuisance in the same manner that per­
sonal property is sold upon execution and apply the proceeds of sale to pay
the expenses of such abatement and removal, paying the residue, if any, to
the defendant on demand, and if insufficient to pay such expenses he shall col· 
lect the residue as above provided. 
SEC. 8185. A pur­
chaser from the United States, his heirs, assigns or grantees of land lying on
a meandered river may proceed by action and injunction against any person
illegally obstructing the flow of water of such river over land lying between
the meandered line and middle of such river, in caseswhere such person shall
have no legal or equitable right or title to such land so lying between such
meandered line and the middle of such river. He may also, in such cases, have
the remedy herein given for abatement of such obstructions and may recover
for damages sustained thereby. 
SEC. 3186. Any person having the legal title to land may institute
an action against any other person setting up a claim thereto, and if the plaint­
iff shall be able to substantiate his title the defendant shall be adjudged to re­
lease to him all claim to such land and pay the costs of such action, unless the
defendant shall, by answer, disclaim all title to such land and give a. release
thereof to the plaintiff, in which case he shall recover costs unless the court
shall otherwise order. It shall be sufficient to aver in the complaint in such
action the nature and extent of the plaintiff's estate in such land, describing
it as accurately as may be, that he is in possession thereof or that said land
is vacant and unoccupied, and that the defendant makes some claim thereto, 
and to demand judgment that the plaintiff's claim be established against any
claim of the defendant, and that he be forever barred against having or claim­
ing any right or title to the land adverse to the plaintiff; and the defendant,
if he do not so disclaim and release, mav answer any matter in denial of the
plaintiff's claim, title or possession, or which, if proved, will establish his own,
and judgment shall be rendered according to the rights of the parties. In all
cases where it may be necessary for the plaintiff to offer proof that the defend­
ant is setting up or making some claim to said land the introduction in evi­
dence of any instrument in writing, theretofore at any time appearing of rec­
ord, or of the record thereof or of a duly certified copy of such record,
purporting to convey to or otherwise in any way to affect in favor of the de­
fendant, or any grantor, deviser, ancestor or other assignor of the defendant
said land or any interest therein adversely to the plaintiff, or under or through
which the plaintiff does not trace his claim of title, shall be sufficient proof of
the making or setting up of such claim of title on the part of the defendant;
and the court may, in any case, receive any other competent evidence tending
to establish the fact of the making or settmg up of claim on his part. In any
such action where a person or persons is or are made a party by a fictitious
name, or as an unknown owner, heir, grantee, representative or other like des­
ignation the plaintiff shall give in a note at the foot of the summons a brief
description of the premises affected thereby. And any person not having such title or possession, but being the owner and holder of any lien or incumbrance
on land, shall also have the same right of action as the owner in fee to test the
legality and validity of any other claim, lien or incumbrance on such land or
any part thereof.
SEC. 3187. 
In an action affecting the title to real property the plaintiff, at the time of
filing the complaint or any time afterward, before judgment, may file in the
office of the register of deeds of each county where the property or any part
thereof is situated a notice of the pendenoy of the action, containing the names
of the parties, the object of the action and a description of the property in
that county affected thereby. If the action be for the foreclosure of a mort­
gage such notice must be filed twenty days before judgment and must. contain
the date of the mortgage, the names of the parties thereto and the time and
place of recording the same. The defendant may, at the time of filing his an­
swer or at anv time afterward, before judgment, file in such register's office & 
like notice. From the time of such filmg, in either case, the eendency of such
action shall be constructive notice thereof to a purchaser or mcumbrancer of
the property affected thereby; and every purchaser or incumbrancer whose
conveyance or inoumbranoe is not recorded or filed shall be deemed a subse­
quent purchaser or inoumbrancer and shall be bound by the proceedings in the
action to the same extent and in the same manner as if he were a party thereto.
Proceedings for acquiring land by the exercise of the right of eminent domain
shall be held to be actions affecting the title to real property within the mean­
ing and provisions of this section. In any such action in which a notice of the
pendency thereof has been filed and the plaintiff therein shall neglect or fail,
for the period of one year after the filing thereof, to serve the defendant or
one of the defendants therein with the summons in the action, either person­
ally or by publication, said notice shall be void, and upon motion the circuit
court of the county wherein it was filed shall, upon proof that said period has
elapsed and that the summons has not been so served, forthwith make an order
directing that such notice be discharged of record. 
SEC. 3187a. Every person who makes an application to any court, county board,
common council, village board or town board for laving out, widening, extending
or vacating any street, alley, water channel, park, higliway or other public place
shall, at or prior to the time of filing the same with the proper officer, file a
notice of the pendency of such application, containing bis name and a brief
statement of the object thereof and a map and description of the land to be
affected thereby in the office of the register of deeds of each countv in which
any such land is situated. Neglect to comply with these provisions shall render 
all proceedings based upon such application void. No final order, judgment 
or decree or final resolution or order taking or affecting such land, based upon
any application therefor, shall have any effect or be notice to any subsequent
purchaser or incumbrancer unless a certified copy thereof giving a full and
accurate description of the land affected thereby, and accompanied with a map
showing the location thereof, be recorded in the office of the register of deeds
of the county in which the land is situated. A certified copy of any resolution
or order made by any such body, whereby any land shall be taken or affected
without an application having been made therefor, shall have no effect and
shall n?t be notice to any subsequent purchaser or incumbrancer unless such
resolution or order be recorded. 
SEC. 3188. Real property ad­
judged to be sold must be sold in the county where the premises or some
part thereof are situated by the sheriff of that county or a referee appointed 
by the court for that purpose, and deeds executed upon such sales shall be
effectual to pass the title, rights and interest of the parties in the premises ad­
judged to be sold and of all purchasers or incumbrancers thereof whose con­
veyance or inoumbrance is made, executed, recorded, perfected or obtained
subsequent to the filing of the notice of the pendency of the action in which
such real property is adjudged to be sold unless the judgment shall otherwise
direct. 
SEC. 3189. In all cases of sales of real estate adjudged to be made if the sheriff or
referee who makes the sale die, depart from the state or become otherwise in­
capacitated to make the report thereof or to make, execute and deliver the
dee l thereon, such report may be made by the under-sheriff, a deputy of such
sheriff, the plaintiff, or any other party to the action interested in having it made,
his agent or attorney, upon oath; 'and such deed may be made by a referee ap­
pointed by the court for that purpose. Such reports may be confirmed, as in
other cases. and such deeds shall have the same effect as if made bv such sher­
iff or original referee. And in all cases where a referee appointed in and by
the judgment to make such sale shall <lie, remove from the state or become
otherwise incapacitated to act, the court rendering such judgme~t may, upon 
petition of any party to the action interested to have such sale made, showing
either such fact, appoint some other suitable person as referee to make such
sale and carry out any other provisions of such judgment. The provisions of
this section shall apply to judgments heretofore as well as those which may
hereafter be rendered. 
SEC. 3190. If any tenant for life or years, in dower 
or by the curtesy be impleaded in respect to any lands the person to whom
the remainder or reversion thereof appertains may, upon his own application,
be made a party to the action at any time before judgment, with leave to de­
fend the same; and he shall not be barred of his action to recover such lands
by the surrender, neglect, default or other act· of such tenant. 
SEC. 3191. All recoveries had by
agreement of parties or by fraud against any tenant for life, in dower or by
tlie curtesy of any lands, tenements or hereditaments shall be void as against 
all persons to whom any reversion or remainder of such lands shall appertain
and as against their heirs, unless the appearance of the person having the re­
version or remainder shall have been duly entered in the court where such
recovery shall be had.
SEC. 8192. Where several
persons are entitled to real estate by heirship, tenancy in common, joint ten­
ancy or otherwise they may bring a joint action for the recovery thereof or
either may bring a several action for his respective share or interest. 
SEC. 8193. In all actions relating to real
property the court may by order give any party thereto leave to make anv
survey of any premises affected by such action, or or any boundary line of such 
premises, or between the lands of any of the parties and the lands of other
persons, when satisfied that such survey is necessary or expedient to enable
either party to prepar~ his pleadings in ~he action. The order for such survey
shall specify the premises or boundary Imes to be surveyed, and a copy thereof
shall be served upon the owner or occupant before any entry is made to make
such survey. After such service the party obtaining such order may, with the
necessary surveyors and assistants, enter the premises specified in such order
and make such survey without being liable to any action therefor except for
injury or damages unnecessarily caused thereby. 
SEC. 3194. Whenever any action for the re­
covery of lands or tenements or for the recovery of the possession thereof shall 
be commenced against any person in possession of the premises in question or
in the receipt of the profits thereof such action shall not be barred or delayed 
by reason of any alienation or conveyance made by such person to any other,
either before or after the commencement of such action.
SEC. 3195. If the de­
fendant in an action of ejectment shall alien the land in suit during its pend­
ency and have no property whereof the damages recovered can be collected
~very person to whom such lands shall have come shall 'be liable in an action
for such damages, for the time that he shall have possessed the premises.
SEC. 8196. In any action relative
to real estate if any person who. is a necessary or proper party thereto is un­
known he may be proceeded agamst and made a party thereto as an unknown
owner, and the summons may be served upon him as is provided by Jaw for
service of a. summons upon unknown owners, but no person whose title or in­
terest appears of record or who is in actual possession or occupancy of such
real estate shall be considered or proceeded against as an unknown owner. 
SEC. 8197. Any person settled upon any of the
public lands belonging to the United States, including claimants of homesteads
m such lands under the laws of the United States, may maintain actions of 
-ejeotment for such lands so settled upon or claimed as a homestead or for any
injuries done thereto, or the possession thereof, or for a forcible entry or un­
lawful or forcible detainer thereof. 
SEC. 8198. In such actions the possession or posses­
sory right of the plaintiff shall extend to the boundaries of the premises em­
braced l>y his claim, and no actual inclosure thereof need be made or proved
to enable him to main ta.in his action.
SEC. 8199. In order to maintain such action the land
claimed shall be staked or otherwise marked out so that its boundaries mav be 
readily traced and the extent of the claim easily known and no such action
shall be maintained unless the plaintiff shall occupy such \and or has made im­
provements thereon to the value of fifty dollars, or where the land claimed
exceeds one hundred and sixty acres, located in one body or in different par­
cels, or where for six months next preceding the commencement of the action
the plaintiff has neglected to occupy or cultivate the land claimed.
SEC. 3200. It shall be com­ 
petent for any person deeming himself aggrieved by the refusal of the legis­
lature to allow any jnst claim against the state to commence an action against
the state by filing a complaint, setting forth fully and particularly the nature
of such claim, with the clerk of the supreme court either in· term time or va­
cation. He shall at the same time file an undertaking, with two or more sure­
ties, to be approved by the state treasurer, to the effect that he will indemnify
the state against all costs that may accrue in such action and to pay to the
clerk of said court all costs, in case the plaintiff shall fail to prosecute his action
or to obtain a judgment against the state, not exceeding one thousand dollars; 
and thereupon the action shall be placed upon the calendar. 
SEC. 3201. The plaintiff, within ten
days after having filed such complaint and undertaking, shall serve a copv of
the complaint upon the attorney-general, together with; a notice to answer or 
demur thereto, within a period of time not less than thirty days from the time
of such service; and the attorney-general shall thereupon be required to an­ 
swer or demur within the time expressed in such notice. 
SEC. 3202.
The supreme court shall proceed to hear and determine such action. If an 
issue of fact shall be made in such action which the court shall deem necessary
to be tried by aJ"ury it shall certify such issue of fact to the circuit court of 
some county, an such court shall proceed at the next regular term to try the
same by a Jury as in other cases; and the verdict rendered, together with the
papers in the action received from the supreme court, shall be sealed up and
returned to the clerk of the supreme court with all convenient speed. At the
request of either party a bill of exceptions may be settled, as in other trials
by jury, and returned with the verdict; and thereupon the supreme court may
enter judgment thereon or again certify the same question of fact to the same
or any other circuit court, to be tried and returned as above provided, and 
may grant a new trial of any issue of fact as often as it shall be satisfied that
there is good cause therefor. The jndgment rendered by the supreme court
in such action shall be conciusi ve and ii nal, 
SEC. 8908. No execution shall issue against
the state on any jndgment, but whenever a final judgment against the state
shall have been obtained in any such action the clerk shall make a.nd furnish
to the secretary of state a duly certified transcript of such judgment; and the
secretary of state shall thereupon audit the amount of damages a.nd costs
therein awarded, and the same shall be paid out of the state treasury. 
SEC. 3204:. Actions and proceedings by or against
corporations may be commenced in the same manner that personal actions and·
proceedings are commenced by or against natural persons, and the proceedings
m such actions shall be the same as in actions by natural persons. 
SEC. 3205. In an action by or against a 
corporation the complaint must aver that the plaintiff or defendant, as the case 
may be, is a corporation. If it was incorporated under any law of this state
that fact must be averred; if it was not so incorporated an averment that it
is a foreign corporation is sufficient. The complaint need not set forth or
specially refer to any act or proceeding by ·or under which the corporation
was made. 
SEC. 8206. In actions or proceed­
ings by or against anv corporation a mistake in the naminz of such corpora­
tion shall be stated in the defendant's verified answer, tofether with the true
name of such corporation; otherwise such mistake shal be deemed to have
been waived. 
SEC. 8207. A corf ora­
tion created by or under the laws of any other state or country or o the
United States may prosecute or defend an notion or proceeding in the courts
of this state in the same manner as corporations created under the laws of
this state, except as otherwise specially prescribed by law. But such for­
eign corporation cannot maintain an action founded upon an act or upon any
liability or obligation, express or implied, arising out of, or made, or entered
into in consideration of any act which the laws of this state forbid a corpora­
tion or any association of individuals to do, without express authority of law. 
SEC. 3208. An action for the re­
covery of money may be commenced and prosecuted to judgment against a 
corporation created bv or under the laws of any other state or country or of
the United States although such corporation may have ceased from any cause
whatever to act in whole or in part as a. corporation in the same manner as
though it had not so ceased to act; and satisfaction of the judgment may be
enforced out of any property in this state which such corporation owns or has
any interest in or would own or ha Ye an interest in had the same not ceased
to act as aforesaid, whether held or controlled by such corporation or by a
trustee, assignee, agent or other person for the use and benefit in whole or in
part of such corporation or the creditors thereof or both; and any attachment
issued in such action may be executed on any such property. 
SEC. 3209. The plaintiff in such action
shall, to the extent of the final judgment therein, have a lien upon all such
propertv and interests aforesaid from the time of the filing of the complaint
m such "'action, unless such corporation shall file with the clerk an undertaking,
in double the amount claimed to be due to the rlaintiff, executed by two or
more sureties in its behalf, resident freeholders o this state, to the effect that
the corporation will satisfy the final judgment that may be recovered in favor
of such plaintiff in such action within sixty days from the rendition thereof.
Snob undertaking shall be of no effect unless accompanied by the affidavit of
the sureties as provided in section 3065, and such sureties, upon being excepted
to, must justify in like manner as there directed. 
SEC. 3210. Any joint-stock company heretofore formed under the laws of
this state, consisting of seven or more shareholders or associates, may sue and
shall be sued in the name of the president thereof for the time being, and all
actions or proceedings so prosecuted by or against any such company, and the
service of all process in such actions and proceedings on such president shall
have the same force and effect, as regards the joint rights, property and effects
of such company, as if such actions and proceedings were prosecuted in the
names of all the shareholders or associates. If such president cannot be found
within the state then all process in such actions or proceedings may be served
personally on any authorized agent of such company within this state with
like effect as if served upon such president. Any joint-stock company or as­ 
sociation organized under the laws of any other state or of any foreign coun­
try, or. any common-law partnership doin~ business in this state, may be sued
upon causes of action arising out of any business done in this state and the
action against the same prosecuted to judgment in the courts of this state, and
the collection of any judgment rendered against the same may be enforced in
the name under which such company, association or partnership does businesa 
in this state. 
SEC. 3211. No action or proceeding so
commenced shall abate by reason of the death, removal or resignation of such
president or the death or legal incapacity of any shareholder or associate dur­
mg the pendency thereof; but the same may be continued bY. the successor of
such president or against such successor, if there be one, and if not in the name
of the president against whom the action or proceeding was commenced. 
SEC. 3212. If judgment shall be recovered in any such action or proceeding against
any such company the execution issued thereon shall be satisfied out of the
property of such company or that which is owned jointly or in common by all
the shareholders or associates; and if such execution be returned unsatisfied in
whole or in part actions may be brought against any or all the shareholders
or associates individually, but no more than one action shall be brought against
such shareholders or associates at any one time, nor until the same shall have
been determined and execution issued thereon returned unsatisfied in whole
or in part. 
SEC. 8213. The death, removal,
resignation of officers or shareholders or sale or transfer of stock shall not
work a dissolution of any such joint-stock company or association as against
the parties suing or being sued as herein provided or as against any creditor
or person having any demand against such joint-stock company or association
at the time of such death, removal, resignation, sale or transfer. 
SEC. 8214:. Every
association or company formed for the purpose of the transportation of pas­
sengers or property, either by boats, vessels, stages or other means, shall make
a statement of the names of the persons comprising such association or com­
pany and file a copv of the same in the office of the clerk of the circuit court
of each county through or into which it may transact business. All persons,
companies and corporations engaged in any such business shall be deemed
oommon carriers. 
SEC. 3215. Until such statement shall be so
filed any action brought against such association or company shall not abate
for the reason that all the members of the same are not joined in such action;
and after such statement shall have been so tiled any action brought against
the persons named therein shall not be abated or defeated for the reason that
other owners may have become interested or that any persons named in such
statement have ceased to be interested therein, unless thirty days previous to
the commencement of such action a further statement shall have been filed, as
provided in the preceding section, showing the change in the several persona
composing such association or company and the time when such change took
place. 
SEC. 3216. Whenever a. judg­
ment shall be obtained against any corporation incorporated under the laws
of this state and an execution issued thereon shall have been returned unsatis­
fied in whole or in part, upon the petition of or by an action commenced by
the person obtaining such judgment or his representatives, the circuit court
within the proper county may sequestrate the stock, property, things in action
and effects of such corporation and may appoint a. receiver of the same.
SEC. 3217. In the final order in any 
such action the court shall direct a just and fair distribution of the property 
of such corporation and of the proceeds thereof to be made among the fair 
and honest creditors of such corporation, in proportion to their debts respect­
ively, who shall be paid in the same order as provided in section 3245.
SEC. 3218. Whenerer any corporation havinz banking
powers, or having the power to make loans or pledges or deposits, ~r author­
ized by law to make insurance shall become insolvent or unable to pav its debts
or shall neglect or refuse to pay its notes or evidences of debts on demand or
shall have violated any of the provisions of its act of incorporation or of any 
?t?er l~w binding on such corpor!ltion, a~y court having jurisd_i~tion may, by 
injunction, restram such corporation and its officers from exercising any of its
corporate rights, privileges or franchises, and from collecting or receiving any
debts or demands, and from paying out or in any way transferring or deliver­
ing to any person any of the monevs, property or effects of such corporation 
until such court shall otherwise order. 
SEC. 3219. Such injunction may 
be issued upon the commencement of an action for the purpose of closing up
the business of such corporation by the attorney-general in the name of the
state or by any creditor or stockholder of such corporation, or at any time
thereafter upon proof of the facts required to authorize the issuing of the same.
The court may in any stage of such action appoint one or more receivers to
take charge of the property and effects of such corporation and to collect, sue
for and recover the debts and demands that may be due and the property that
may belong to such corporation, who shall in all respects possess the powers
and authority conferred and be subject to all the obligations imposed upon re­
ceivers in other cases, and in all respects be subject to the control "Of the court. 
SEC. 3220. Whenever such injunction shall issue
against a bank for any violation of its charter on the application of any cred­
itor the court shall proceed to final judgment in such case and adjudge a for­
feiture, if the proof be sufficient, notwithstanding such creditor may settle with
such corporation; and in all such cases the attorney-general, under the direc­
tion of the governor or any creditor, shall have the right to appear and prose­
cute such action; and such action shall not be discontinued if either of them so
appear and prosecute such action to final judgment. 
SEC. 3221. If such action be commenced by a
creditor of any corporation whose directors, trustees or other officers or stock­
holders are made liable by law for the payment of such debt, in any event or
con t ingencv, such directors, trustees or other officers or stockholders or anv of
them may be made parties to the action, either at the commencement thereof
or in any subsequent stage of the proceedings, whenever it shall become neces­
sary to enforce such liability. 
SEC. 3222. If anv creditor of such cor­
poration desires to make such directors, trustees or other officers or stock­ 
holders parties to the action after a judgment therein against the corporation
he may do so by filing a supplemental complaint against them founded upon
such judgment; and if such judgment was rendered in an action instituted by 
the attorney-general such creditor may, on his own application, be made plaintiff
therein and may in like manner make the directors, trustees or other officers
or stockholders sought to be charged defendants in such action. 
SEC. 8223. Whenever any cred­
itor of any corporation shall seek to oharge the directors, trustees or other
officers or stockholders thereof on account of any liability created by law he
may commence and maintain an action for that purpose in the circuit court and 
may at his election join the oorporation in such action. 
SEC. 3224. The court shall proceed therein as in other
cases, and when necessary shall cause an account to be taken of the property
and debts due to and from such corporation and shall appoint one or more re­
ceivers, who shall possess all the powers conferred and be subject to all the
obligations imposed on receivers by the provisions of section 3219; but if,
upon the filing of the answer or upon the taking of such account, it shall ap­
pear that the corporation is insolvent and that it has no property or effects to
satisfy such creditor, the court may proceed without appointing anv receiver 
to ascertain the respective liabilities of such directors, trustees or other offi­
cers and stockholders, and enforce the same by its judgment as in other cases. 
SEC. 3225. Upon a final judgment being
rendered in any action to restrain a corporation or against the directors, trust­
ees, officers or stockholders the court shall cause just and fair distribution of
the property of such corporation and of the proceeds thereof to be made among
its creditors in the order prescribed in section 3245. 
SEC. 8226. In all cases in
which the directors or other officers of a corporation or the stockholders thereof
shall have been made parties to an action in which judgment shall be rendered,
if the property of such corporation shall be insufficient to discharge its debts
the court shall proceed to compel each stockholder to pay in the amount due
and remaining unpaid on the shares of stock held by him or so much thereof
as shall be necessary to satisfy the debts of the corporation. If the debts of
the corporation or any part thereof shall still remain unsatisfied the court shall
proceed to ascertain the respective liabilities of the directors or other officers
and of the stockholders, and adjudge the amount payable by each and enforce
the judgment as in other oases. 
SEC. 3227. WheneV"er anv action
shall be commenced against any corporation, its directors, trustees or other offi­ 
cers or its stockholders, according to the provisions of this chapter, the court may,
by injunction, on the application of either party and at any stage of the proceed­
ings, restrain all proceedings by any other creditor against the defendant in
such action ; and whenever it shall appear necessary or proper may order no­
tice to be published in such manner as the court shall direct requiring all the
creditors of such corporation to exhibit their claims and become parties to the
action within a reasonable time, not less that six months from the first publi­
cation of such order, and in default thereof to be precluded from all benefit of
the judgment which shall be made in such action and from any distribution
which shall be made under such judgment. 
SEC. 3228. In every such action the court may compel such
corporation to discover any stock, property, things in action or effects alleged
to belong or to have belonged to it, the transfer and disposition thereof and
the consideration and all the circumstances of such disposition. Every officer,
agent or stockholder of such corporation and ever7 person to whom it shall be
alleged that any transfer of property or effects o such corporation has been
made, or in whose possession or control the same is alleged to be, may be com­
pelled, in the discretion of the court, to testify in relation thereto and to an­
swer any questions touching the transfer or possession of such property or 
effects, although such answer may expose the corporation of which he ~is a 
member- to a forfeiture of its corporate rights or any of them, or suof witness
to a prosecution for a criminal fraud; but such answers shall not be used as
evidence upon any information, indictment or other criminal prosecution or
proceeding against him. 
SEC. 3229. When any judgment shall
have been recovered against any turnpike or other corporation authorized to
receive toll the franchises of such corporation with all the rights and privi­
leges thereof, together with all their corporate property botli real anfi per­
sonal, may be taken on execution and sold at public auction.
SEC. 3230. The officer haring such execution against
such corporation shall, thirty davs at least before the day of sale of the fran­
chise or other corporate personal property, give notice of the time and place
of sale by postin~ up a notice thereof in any town in which the clerk, treas­
urer or any one 01 the directors of such corporation may dwell, and also by 
causing an advertisement of the sale, expressmg the name of the creditor, the
amount of the execution and the time and place of the sale, to be inserted three
weeks successively in some newspafer published in any county in which either
of the aforesaid officers may dwell, if any such there be, and if no newspaper
be published in any such county, then in the newspaper published nearest
thereto; and he may adjourn the sale from time to time, as may be necessary,
until the sale shall be completed. 
SEC. 3281. In the sale of the fran­
chise of any corporation the person who shall satisfy the execution with all
legal fees and expenses thereon and shall agree to take such franchise for the
shortest period of time and to receive during that time all such tolls as the
said corporation would by law be entitled to demand shall be considered the
highest bidder. 
SEC. 8232. The officer's return on such exe­
cution shall transfer to the purchaser all the privileges and immunities which
by law belonged to such corporation, so far as relates to the right of demand­
ing toll; and the officer shall immediately after such sale deliver to the pur­
chaser possession of all the toll houses and gates belonging to such corporation
in whatever county the same may be situated; and the purchaser may there­
upon demand and receive all the toll which may accrue during the time lim­
ited by the terms of his purchase in the same manner and under the same
regulations as such corporation was before authorized to demand and recei ve 
the same.
SEC. 3233. Any person who
shall eurchase under these provisions the franchises of any such corporation, 
and his assignees, may recover any penalties imposed by law for an mjury to
the franchise or for any other cause, and which such corporation would have
been entitled to recover, during the time limited in the said purchase of the
franchise; and during that time the corporation shall not be entitled to prose­
cute for such penalties. 
SEC. 3234. The corporation whose franchise shall
have been sold as aforesaid shall in all other respects retain the same powers
and be bound to the discharge of the same duties and liable to the same pen­
al ties and forfeitures as before such sale.
SEC. 3235. Such corporation may, at any time within
one year after such sale, redeem the franchise by paying or tendering the pur­
chaser thereof the sum that he shall have paid therefor with twelve per cent.
interest thereon, but without any allowance for the toll which he may have 
received; and upon such payment or tender the said franchise and all the rights
and privileges thereof shall revert and belong to said corporation as if no such
sale had been made. 
SEC. 8286. In an action for that pur­
pose commenced by the attorney-general in the name of the state in any cir­ 
cuit court against a corporation, such court may restrain such corporation by
injunction from assuming or exercising any franchise, liberty or privilege or
transacting any business not authorized by its charter; and in the same man­ 
ner may restrain any individuals from exercising any corporate rights, privi­
leges or franchises not granted to them by any law of this state; and such
court, pending such action, may issue such injunction and continue the same
until final judgment shall have been rendered therein. 
SEC. 3237. The circuit court shall
have jurisdiction over directors, managers, trustees and other officers of cor­
porations: 
1. To compel them to account for their official conduct in the management;
and disposition of the funds and property committed to their charge. 
2. To order and compel payment by them to the corporation whom they
represent and to its creditors of all sums of money and of the value of all prop­
erty which they may have acquired to themselves or transferred to others, or
may have lost or wasted by any violation of their duties as such directors, man­
agers, trustees or other officers. 
3. To suspend any such director, trustee or other officer from exercising his
office whenever it shall appear that he has abused his trust. 
4. To remove any such director, trustee or officer from his office upon proof
or oonvictionof gross misconduct. 
5. To direct if necessary new elections to be held by the body or board duly
authorized for that purpose to supply any vacancy created by such removal. 
6. In case there be no such body or board or all the members of such board
be removed, then to report the same to the governor, who shall be authorized
to fill such vacancies. 
7. To set aside all alienations of property made by the directors, trustees or
other officers of any corporation contrary to the provisions of law or for pur­
poses foreign to the lawful business and objects of such corporation, in cases
where the person receiving such alienation knew the purposes for which it was 
made; and 
8. To restrain and prevent any such alienation in cases where it may be 
threatened or there may be good reason to apprehend that it is intended to be 
made. 
SEC. 3238. When any visitorial powers over any .
corporation are or shall be vested by statute in any corporate body or public
officer the provisions of the preceding section shall not lie construed to divest
or impair the powers so vested; nor shall the visitorial powers of suoh body or
officer be exclusive unless expressly so declared.
SEC. 3239. TheJ'urisdiction conferred
by section 3237 shall be exercised in an action prosecute by the attorney-gen­
eral in the name of the state, or by any creditor of such corporation, or by any
director, trustee or officer thereof having a general superintendence of its con­
cerns, as the case may require or as the court may direct. 
SEC. 3240. An action may be brought by the
attorney-general in the name of the state, whenever the legislature snail direct,
against a corporation created by or under the laws of tliis state for the pur­
po3e of vacating or annulling the act of incorporation or an act renewing its
corporate existence, on the ground that such act or renewal was procured upon
some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact by the persons
incorporated or by some of them, or with their knowledge and consent. 
SEC. 3241. An action may
be brought by the attorney-genera.I or by any private party in the name of
the state, on leave granted therefor by the supreme court upon cause shown,
for the purpose of vacating the charter or annulling the existence of any cor­
poration created by or under the laws of this state, except a municipal corpo­
ration, whenever such corporation shall: 
1. Offend against any of the provisions of any law by or under which it
shall have been created, altered or renewed; or 
2. Violate the provisions of any law by which such corporation shall have
forfeited its charter by abuse of its powers; or 
3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or franchises by failure to
exercise its powers; or 
4. Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act which amounts to a sur­
render of its corporate rights, privileges orfranchises ; or 
5. Wheuever it shall exercise franchises or privileges not conferred upon it 
by law. 
SEC. 3242. 
Whenever the attorney-general shall have reason to believe tha.t any of the
acts or omissions specified in the preceding section can be established by proof
he shall apply for leave, and upon leave granted bring such action in every
case of public interest and in every other case in which satisfactory security
shall be given to indemnify the state against the costs an<l expenses to be in­
curred thereby. In case the attorney-general on application shall refuse to
bring such action leave to bring the same by a private party shall be granted
only on notice to the attorney-general and the proposed defendant; and the
court on granting leave in such case may require the prosecutor to give ade­
quate security t.o the state to indemnify it and the defendant against all tax­ 
able costs therein. 
SEC. 3243. Upon an application by the attorney­
general to bring any such action the court may in its discretion direct notice
of such application to be given to the officers of the corporation previous to
the hearing, and may hear the corporation in opposition thereto. 
SEC. 3244-. Whenever an action shall be 
brought by the attorney-general in the name of the state for the purpose of
vacating the charter or annulling the existence of a corporation the summons
shall be served personally upon some officer of such corporation, if to be found
within the state. If anv sheriff to whom anv such summons shall be delivered
for service shall make return thereon that no officer of such corporation can,
after due diligence, be found within the state the attorney-general shall cause 
& copy of such summons to be published in the official state paper once in each 
week for four successive weeks; and upon filing proof of such publication with
the clerk of the court the service of the summons shall be deemed complete,
and the court shall proceed as though personal service had been made on such
corporation. 
SEC. 3245. If in any such action it shall be adjudged
that a. corporation has forfeited its corporate rights, privileges and franchises
judgment shall be rendered that such corporation be excluded from such oor­
porate rights, privileges and franchises and be dissolved; and thereupon the 
affrurs of such corporation shall be wound up by and under the direction of a
receiver, to be appointed by the court, and its property sold and converted into
money; and the proceeds, after paying the costs and expenses, shall be dis­
tri bu ted in the following order: 
1. For the payment of taxes and debts due the United States, the state of
Wisconsin and any oounty, citv, town or village therein. 
2. For the payment of the legal and equitable liens upon the property of
such corporation in the order of their priority. 
3. For the payment of the other just debts of the corporation.
4. The residue of such moneys, if any, shall be distributed among the stock­ 
holders thereof.
When any corporation shall be adjudged to have exercised a franchise or 
privilege not conferred on it by law the court may, in its discretion, instead
of rendering a judgment as above provided in this section, render a judgment
that such corporation be excluded from exercising such franchise or privilege
and that the plaintiff recover costs, and may also in either case, in its discre­
tion, fine such corporation in a sum not exceeding two thousand dollars, to be
collected and paid into the state treasury. 
SEC. 8246. If auch action be pending in
the circuit court such receiver shall be appointed in and by the judgment of
dissolution or by a subsequent order founded thereon. If it shall be pending
in the supreme court then, upon the entry of such judgment of dissolution,
the attorney-general shall forthwith commence an action in the proper circuit 
court for the appointment of such receiver and the winding up of the affairs 
of such corporation; and such corporation shall, notwithstanding such judg­
ment of dissolution, be deemed to exist until a. receiver shall be appointed,
qualified and duly invested with the property of such corporation, but shall
not be able to do any act or thing other than to make over and transfer its
assets to such receiver. 
SEC. 3247. The provisions of
the two preceding sections, so far as they relate to the distribution of the
property of the oorpcration and actions to appoint receivers therefor, shall
apply to any corporation whose charter shall be repealed by act of the legis­
Jature or otherwise annulled thereby. 
SEC. 3248. The necessary costs and disbursements
incurred in bringing and prosecuting such action by 'the attorney.general, in
the name of the state, shall, when certified to by him, be audited by the secre­
tary of state and paid out of the state treasury. The receiver in any such ac­
tion, or the attorney-general in case such moneys shall be delivered to him by 
such receiver, shall repay to the state treasurer any money advanced by the
state on account of such costs and disbursements. 
SEC. 3249. Upon the rendition of such
judgment against a corporation or for vacating or annulling of letters patent
the attorney-general shall cause a copy of the judgment roll to be forthwith
filed in the office of the secretary of state. 
SEC. 3250. No special directions in these statutes
to the attorney-general or any other public officer, concerning corporations,
not contained in this chapter, shall be deemed exclusive nor shall anything in
this chapter be deemed to repeal any other remedies given by these statutes to
or against corporations, their officers, stockholders or creditors. 
SEC. 3e51. The provisions of this chapter shall not extend to any incorporated library or lyceum society, to any 
religious corporation or any incorporated academy or select school, nor to the
proprietors of any burying ground incorporated under the laws of this state.
SEC. 3252. For wrongs done to the property, rights or
interests of another, for which an action might be maintained against the 
wrong-doer, an action may be brought by the executors or administrators of 
the person injured after his death against such wrong-doer, and, after his death,
against his executors or administrators. Bat this section shall not extend to 
actions for slander or libel. 
SEC. 3253. No executor or
administrator shall be held to bail in any action against him in his represent­
ative character unless such action be brought to charge him with waste. 
SEC. 3254. In actions or
proceedings against several executors or administrators they shall all be con­
sidered as one person representing their testator or intestate, and those who
are first served with process or who shall first appear shall answer the plaint­ 
iff. Judgment shall be rendered as if all bad appeared, and in case where the
execution may be issued against the property of the testator or intestate it
may issue against all in like manner as if all had appeared. But this section
shall not deprive the plaintiff of the right to bring into court all the executors
or administrators against whom the action is brought. 
SEC. 3255. No executor or administrator shall be
made personally liable for any debt or damages by reason of his having made
any false allegation in pleading.
SEC. 3256. The real estate which be­
longed to any deceased person shall not be bound or in any way affected by
any judgment against his executors or administrators, nor shall it be liable to
be sold by virtue of any execution issued upon such judgment except as pro­
vided in section 2751.
SEC. 3257.
When administration of the effects of a deceased person, which shall have been
left unadministered by anv previous executor or administrator of the same
estate, shall be granted to "'any person such :person shall have execution upon
any judgment that may have been recovered by any such previous executor or
administrator at any time within five years from the time of docketing the 
same, without reviving the same or giving any notice to the defendant in such 
judgment. He may bring a writ of error or appeal upon any judgment ob­
tained against such previous executor or administrator or against the testator
or intestate and shall defend any writ of error or appeal brought upon any
such judgment, and have the same remedies in the prosecution or defense of
any action by or against such previous executor or administrator, and to col­
lect and enforce any judgment as they would have had by law. 
SEC. 32!'i8. An executor of an
executor shall have no authority to commence or maintain any action or pro­
ceeding relating to the estate, effects or rights of the testator of the first exec­
utor, or to take any charge or control thereof as such executor.
SEC. 3259. No person shall be
liable to an action as executor of his own wrong for having received, taken or
interfered with the property of a deceased person; but shall be responsible as
a wrong-doer in the proper action to the executors or general or special ad­
ministrators of such deceased. person for the value of any property or eff ects
so received. or taken and for all damages caused. by his aots to the estate of the
deceased. 
SEC. 3260. When the
executor or administrator of a trustee, carrier or other person, who claimed
only a special property in any goods to hold them for the use and benefit of
another, shall recover suoh goods or the value thereof, or damages for the tak­
ing or detention thereof, or for any injury done to the same the goods or money
so recovered shall not be considered assets in his hands, but shall, after deduct­
ing the costs and expenses of the action, be paid over and delivered to the
person for whose use or benefit they were so claimed. or held by the deceased
person. 
SEC. 8261. When
judgment for a return in an action to recover the possession of personal prop­
ertv shall be rendered against an executor or administrator the goods returned 
by whim shall not be considered. assets in his hands; and if they shall have been
included in the inventory it shall be sufficient discharge for the executor or
administrator to show that they have been returned m pursuance of such
judgment. 
SEC. 8262. Whenever
an action shall be brought by any legatee against an executor or administra­ 
tor, and the want of assets to pay all the debts of the deceased and all the
legacies bequeathed by him or any of them shall be alleged in the defendant's
answer, the court shall proceed to examine the accounts of the defendant and
hear the proofs and allegations of the parties in respect to such answer; or the
cause may be referred to a referee as in actions involving the examination of
a long account.
SEC. 3263. If the plaintiff in any
such action shall recover only part of his demand for the want of assets in the
hands of the defendants and assets shall afterwards come to their hands he shall
have a new action for the recovery thereof or for the proportionate share
thereof to which he may be entitled; and the same proceedings in all respects
shall be had in such action. 
SEC. 8264. In all cases the costs of the action or of
either party shall be paid, as the court may direct, out of the estate of the de­
ceased or by the defendants personally, if their refusal to pay such legacy or
their defense of the action shall appear to have been unreasonable. 
SEC. 3265. In any action against executors or
administrators in which the fact of their having administered the estate of
their testator or intestate or any part thereof shall come in issue and the in· 
ventory of any property of the deceased made and filed by them shall be given
in evidence the plaintiff or defendant may rebut the same by proof: 
1. That any property or effects have been omitted in such inventorv or were
not returned therein at their true value. ., 
2. That such property has perished or been lost without the fault of such
executor or administrator or that it has been fairly sold by them at private or
public sale at a less price than the value so returned, or that since the return of .
the inventory such property has deteriorated or enhanced in value. 
SEC. 3266. In every such ao­ 
tion the defendants shall not be charged for any demands or rights in action
specified in their inventory unless it appear that such demands or rights have
been collected or might have been collected with due diligence.
SEC. 3267. When
an executor or administrator shall have been duly appointed in any other state,
territorv or country, on the estate of any person not a resident of this state at
the time of his death and no executor or administrator shall have been ap­
pointed in this state, such foreign executor or administrator, upon filing his
original appointment or a copy thereof duly authenticated, as required to make
the same receivable in evidence in any county court in this state, may there­
after exercise any power over such estate, including sales and assignments of
the same or a.ny part thereof, and prosecute and defend any action and pro­
ceeding relating thereto a.nd have all the rights, remedies and defenses in regard
to the. property, real a.nd personal, and mterest, legal and equitable, and to
collect anv demands of such estate which an executor or administrator dulv
appointed by o.ny county court of this state can have or exercise in relation 
thereto. 
SEC. 3268. Whenever any exec­
utor or administrator shall have purchased at any foreclosure or other judicial
sale, under a judgment in an action in which he, as such executor or adminis­
trator, is plaintiff, real estate so sold, or shall have redeemed any real estate 
from a foreclosure or judicial sale made at the snit of any other person and
have received a deed therefor, he may sell and convey the same without license
therefor, upon such terms as he shall deem best; and the proceeds arising from
such sale shall be held by him for the benefit of the estate he represents the
same as he would have held the money due upon the debt by virtue of which 
he so purchased or redeemed such real estate. 
SEC. 3269. Actions against the next of kin or
legatees of any deceased person to recover the value of any assets that may have 
been paid to them by any executor or administrator may be brought against
all of the next of kin jointly or one or more of them, or against all of the 
legatees jointly or one or more of them. 
SEC. 3270. If such action be
brought against the next of kin the plaintiff must show that be has been or
will be unable, with due diligence, to collect his debt or some part thereof by
proceedings in the proper county court or from the personal representatives of 
the deceased; and m such action the plaintiff may recover the value of all the
assets received by all the defendants in the action, if necessary to satisfy his
demand, and the amount of the recovery shall be apportioned among the de­ 
fendants in proportion to the value of the assets or the amount of the legacies
received by each of them; and the costs of the action shall be apportioned in
like manner; but no allowance or deduction shall be made from such amount
on account of there being other next of kin or legatees to whom assets or
legacies have also been delivered or paid. The judgment shall express the
amount recovered against each defendant for damages and costs, and shall be
docketed and enforced against each of them separately in like manner and with
like effect as if they were separate judgments. 
SEC. 3271. Any of the next of kin against whom re­
oovery shall be had pursuant to the preceding sections may maintain an action
against the other relatives of the testator to whom any such assets may have 
been paid, jointly or against any of them separately, for a just and equal con­ 
tri bntion; and shall be entitled to recover of each defendant such an amount as
shall be in the same proportion to the whole sum collected of the plaintiff as
the value of the assets delivered to such defendant bore to the value of all the
assets delivered to all the relatives of the deceased. 
SEC. 3272. If the action
be brought against a legatee or against all the legatees the plaintiff shall not
be entitled to recover unless he show, in addition to the facts required to be
shown in an action against the next of kin: 
1. That no assets were delivered by the executor or administrator of the de­ 
ceased to his next of kin · or 
2. That the value of such assets have been recovered by some other cred­
itor; or 
3. That such assets are not sufficient to satisfy the demands of the plaintiff;
and in the last case he shall be entitled to recover the deficiency; 
4. If the action be brought against a preferred legatee or a class of preferred
legatees the plaintiff must also show the same matters as to the legatee or class
of legatees to whom the defendant or defendants are preferred as is above
required to be shown as to the next of kin. And any legatee against whom re­
covery shall be had pursuant to the preceding sections may maintain an action
for contribution against other legatees of the same class as next of kin may
among themselves.
SEC. 3273. In case of any judgment against
several relatives or against several legatees the payment or satisfaction of the
amount recovered against any one of the defendants shall discharge such de-
fendant from the judgment and from execution thereon. 
SEC. 3274. The heirs and devtsees of any de­
ceased person shall, respectively, be liable for the debts of any such person
arising upon contract, subject to the limitations in sections 3277 and 3278, to
the extent of the estate, interest and rights in the real estate which shall have
descended to them from or been derived [ devised] to them by such person,
and the remedy of the plaintiff shall not be delayed" or suspended by reason of
the infancy of any such heir or devisee. 
SEC. 3275. An action against heirs or devisees to
charge them under the provisions of this chapter must be brought jointly against
all the heirs to whom any real estate descended or jointly against all the dev­
isees, as the case may be; but if all the persons so jointly liable shall not be 
made defendants in the action the action shall not therefore be dismissed or 
barred, but the court may order the proper persons to be made defendants, and
may allow such amendments as may be necessary to make them defendants, on 
such terms as shall be just. 
SEC. 3276. The complaint in such action must describe
with reasonable certaintv the real estate which shall have so descended or been
devised to each of the defendants and specify its value.
SEC. 8277. When such action is
brought against heirs the plaintiff must show, either: 
1. That the personal assets of the deceased within the state were not suffi­
cient to pay the plaintiff's debt, in addition to the expenses of administration
and debts of a ErIOr class; or 
2. That the plaintiff has been or will be unable, with due diligence, to collect
his debt or some part thereof by proceedings in the proper county court, or
from the personal representatives of the deceased, or from his next of kin or 
- legatees. The account of the executor or administrator, when rendered to and
settled by the proper county court, may be used in any action brought under
the provisions of this chapter as presumptive evidence of any matter of fact 
stated therein. 
SEC. 327-8. When such action is brought against
devisees the plaintiff must show, in addition to the matters specified in the last section, that the plaintiff has been or will be unable, with due diligence, to col­
lect his debt or some part thereof by an action against the heirs. 
SEC. 3279. When the personal assets applicable to
the plain tiff's debt are sufficient to pay a part thereof, or a part thereof has 
been collected from the executor or administrator or from any of the next of 
kin or legatees, the plaintiff can recover only the residue remaining unpaid or
uncollected; and when the action is against the devisee he shall recover only
such part thereof as shall not be recoverable from the heirs. 
SEC. 3280. Nothinz in
this chapter shall affect or impair the liability of heirs or devisees for any debt 
of their decedent, when such debt was by his will expressly charged exclusively
upon the real property descended to such heirs or devised to such devisees, or
made payable exclusively out of the real estate so descended or devised, before
resortmg to the personal estate, or to any other real estate descended or de­ 
vised, or when any particular personal property or any legatee shall be made
exclusively liable for any such debt. 
SEC. 3281. In such action any heir may show that at 
the time of the commencement thereof he had nothing by descent or devise or
that he had not sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand. 
SEC. 3282. If any real estate has descended to such
heir or been devised to such devisee the court shall ascertain the value thereof
either by a reference or by awarding an issue for that purpose. 
SEC. 3283. If any real estate which de­
scended or was devised to any defendant shall not be aliened by him before
the filing of a notice of the pendency of the action the court shall adjudge
that the debt of the plaintiff, or the portion thereof which he is entitled to
recover against such defendant, shall be levied out of such real estate so de-
scended or devised, and not otherwise. 
SEC. 3284. In such action
the sum which the plaintiff is entitled to recover for damages and costs must
be apportioned among all the defendants, in proportion to the value of the
real property descended or devised to such defendants, and such proportion
only shall be recovered of each heir or devisee. The judgment shall express
the amount recovered azainst each defendant for damages and costs, and it
may be docketed and enforced against each defendant separately, in like man­
ner and with like effect as if they were separate judgments. Each such judg­
ment shall have preference as a lien on the real estate descended or devised to 
any defendant to any other judgment rendered and docketed against suoh heir
or devisee for any debt or demand of his own. 
SEC. 8285. No real estate de­
scended to any heir or devised to any devisee, which shall have been aliened
in good faith and for value by him before a notice of the pendency of the
action was filed or, if no such notice be filed, before the final judgment is
docketed in the county, shall be liable-to execution on any such Judgment or
any way affected thereby. 
SEC. 3286. When it appears that, before the
filing of a notice of the pendency of such action, the defendant has aliened the
real estate descended or devised to him or any part thereof he shall be ~r­
sonally liable for the value of the estate so aliened, and the plaintiff may take
judgment against him for not exceeding such value as in an action for hIS own
debt. 
SEC. 3287. When the next of kin, legatees,
heirs or devisees are liable for demands against the decedent as prescribed in 
this chapter they shall be given preference in the payment of the same and 
shall be liable therefor in the following order:
1. Debts entitled to preference under the laws of the United States.
2. Judgments docketed against the decedent, according to the priority 
thereof, respectively.
3. All other debts arising or growing out of any contract. 
SEC. 3288. No preference shall be
given by any next of kin, legatee, heir or devisee to. any debt, over other debts
of the same ·class, except those specified in the second class of the preceding section; nor shall a debt due and payable be entitled to a preference over debts
not due; nor shall the commencement of an action against any next of kin,
legatee, heir or devisee for the recovery of any debt entitle such debt to any
preference over others of the same class.
SEC. 3289. The next of kin, legatee, heirs and devisees may
show that there are debts of a prior class unsatisfied or that there are unpaid 
debts of the same class with that on which the action is brought; and if it ap­ 
pear that the value of the personal property delivered to them or of the real
estate descended or devised to them does not exceed the debts of a prior class
judgment shall be rendered in their favor. 
SEC. 3290. If the personal property delivered to
such next of kin or legatee, or if the real estate descended or devised to such
heirs or devisees, exceed the amount of debts which are entitled to a prefer­
ence over the debt for which the action is brought judgment shall be rendered
against them only for such a sum as shall be a just eroportion to the other
debts of the same class with that on which the action IS brought. 
SEC. 3291. If any debt of a prior class
to that on which the action is brought, or of the same class, shall have been
paid by any next of kin, legatees, heirs or devisees they mav give evidence of
such payment, and the amount of debts so paid shall be estimated in ascertain­
ing the amount to be recovered in the same manner as if such debts were out­
standing and unpaid as prescribed in the two last sections. 
SEC. 3292. A child born after the making of a will who is entitled to suc­ 
ceed to a portion of the real or personal property or both of the testator, or a
witness to a will who is entitled to recover any portion of such propertv from
the legatees or devisees, shall have the same rights and remedies to compel a
distribution of the personal property and partition of the real estate or to re­
cover of the legatees or devisees such portion of the property as belongs to
him, or to compel a contribution from other persons interested in the estate,
or to gain possession of the property, as any other persons who are entitled to
anv part of such estate and shall be equally liable to the creditors of the de­
cedent under the provisions of this chapter. 
SEC. 3293. If any of the heirs, dev­
isees, legatees or next of kin shall die without having paid his just share of
the debts of his decedent bis estate shall be liable therefor, as for his own debt, 
to the extent to which he would have been liable if living. 
SEC. 3i94. In all cases, not otherwise specially pro­
vided for bv law, where a forfeiture shall be incurred by any person and the
act or omission for which the same is imposed shall not also be a misdemeanor,
such forfeiture may be sued for and recovered in a civil action. When such
act or omission is punishable by fine and imprisonment or by fine or imprison­
ment or is specially declared by law to be a misdemeanor it shall be deemed a
misdemeanor within the meaning of this chapter. The word forfeiture, as
used in this chapter, shall include· any penalty, in money or goods, other than
a fine. 
SEC. 3295.
Every such action, unless otherwise specially provided, shall be brought in the
name of the state of Wisconsin, and the summons, pleadings and proceedings
therein shall be the same as in civil actions. In such actions it shall be suffi­
cient to allege in the complaint that the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff
in the amount of the forfeiture claimed, according to the provisions of the
statute which imposes it, specifying the section and chapter containing such
statute. And when such section imposes a forfeiture for several offenses or
delinquencies it shall specify the particular offense or delinquency for which
the action was brought, with a demand for judgment for the amount of such
forfeiture. In case the defendant is a non-resident of the state an attachment
may be issued in such action in like manner as may be done in ordinary civil
actions against non-residents. Any such action may be brought for, and the 
judgment therein may include, as many forfeitures as the defendant may have
incurred prior to its commencement. 
SEC. 3296. In an action
brought to recover any goods or other things forfeited by the provisions of
any statute it shall be sufficient to allege in the complaint that such goods or
other things have been forfeited, specifying the section and chapter containing
such statute, with a demand of judgment for the delivery of such goods or
other things or the value thereof. 
SEC. 3297. In case any portion of any forfeiture
shall, when recovered, belong or by law shall be payable to any person, and
not to the state, such person may join with the state as a party plaintiff to the
action; and in such cases, if judgment be rendered for the defendant, the judg­
ment for costs shall be rendered against such person solelY.. Such person may
be compelled to give security for costs as in ordinary civil actions. 
SEC. 8298. No such action, other
than those in which the person mentioned in the preceding section shall join
as plaintiff, shall be brought before any justice of the peace except by direc­
tion of the attorney-general, district attorney of the county, mayor or alder­
man of a city, president or trustee of a. village, or supervisor of a town in
which the forfeiture is incurred, or other officer specially directed by statute;
and no appeals shall be taken, in the actions mentioned in this section, to the
circuit or supreme court, from a. judgment against the state unless directed by
the attorney-general or district attorney .. 
SEC. 3299. When a forfeiture is imposed, not
exceeding a specific sum or when it is not less than one sum or more than an­
other, the action may be brought for the highest sum specified; and judgment
may be rendered for such sum as the court or jury shall assess or determine to
be proportionate to the offense. 
SEC. 3300. AH forfeitures im­
posed by chapter 89 may be sued for by the district attorney of the county in 
which the insurance company or any of its agents mentioned in said chapter
may be located or reside, or by the attorney-general, If the action be brought
by the district attorney one-half of the forfeiture, when recovered, shall be paid
into the county treasury of his county and the other half to the informer of
such violation who sues jointly with the state therefor, and otherwise the whole
shall be paid into such county treasurv. If the action is brought by the at­
torney-general tha sum recovered shall be paid into the state treasury. 
SEC. SEOTION 3301. Where any property has been
seized and detained pursuant to section 1580, in case of the recovery of judg­
ment for the forfeiture provided in section 1576, and non-payment thereof, the
court may issue its warrant directed to the sheriff or other proper officer of
the county commanding him to cause such judgment, with the costs, to be forth­
with collected by sale of the property so seized and that if sufficient propert1.
be not found whereof to collect the same to commit the defendant to the jail
of the proper county, there to be imprisoned not exceeding six months or until
otherwise discharged pursuant to law. 
SEC. 3302. In all cases where [udg­
ment is recovered pursuant to this chapter it shall also include the costs of the
action and it shall direct that if the same is not paid the defendant shall be
committed to the county jail of the proper county, there to be imprisoned for
a specified time, not exceeding six months, which period shall be fixed by the
court, in view of all the circumstances of the case, or until otherwise discharged
pursuant to law. In such cases a commitment shall issue, as in ordinary errm­ 
inal actions, and such defendant shall not be entitled to the liberties of the
jail. This section shall not prevent the issue of an execution to collect such
judgment at any time within one year from its rendition. 
SEC. 3303. All forfeitures
imposed by any by-law, ordinance or regulation of any town, city or village,
or of any corporation organized under the laws of this state, where special
provision is not otherwise made by law for their recovery, or punishment
provided for the act or omission for which they are imposed, may be sued for
and recovered, pursuant to this chapter, in the name of such town, city, vil­
lage or corporation. It shall be sutlicient to allege in the complaint that the
defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in the amount of the forfeiture claimed,
specifying the by-law, ordinance or regulation which imposes it. And when 
such by-law, ordinance or regulation imposes a penalty or forfeiture for several
offenses or delinquencies it sball specify the particular offense or delinquency
for which the action is brought, with a demand for judgment for the amount
of such forfeiture. All moneys collected on such judgments shall be paid to
the treasurer of such town, city, village or corporation. 
SEC. 3304. The chairman of the town shall
cause an action to be commenced under this chapter for the recovery of any
forfeiture which he shall know or have reason to believe has been incurred in
his town, if the same is recoverable before a justice of the peace, and every
other town officer knowing or having reason to believe that any forfeiture has
been incurred shall forthwith notify such chairman thereof. 
SEC. 3305. Such chairman shall forth­
with notify the district attorney of bis county of every forfeiture which he
knows, has reason to believe or which he has been so informed has been in­
curred in his town, which cannot be recovered before a justice of the peace;
who shall forthwith cause an action to be commenced for the recovery thereof
as well as for the recovery of every forfeiture which he shall otherwise know
or have reason to believe has been incurred; and such district attorney shall
attend to and conduct any action so commenced by such chairman, when re-·
q nested by him so to do. 
SEC. 8306. All moneys collected
on account of any judgment in favor of the state for forfeiture, pursuant to
this chapter, except tlie portion to be paid by law to any person who sues
jointly with the state therefor, shall be paid by the officer who collects the
same, except justices of the peace and town and city treasurers, to the treas­
urer of the county within which such forfeiture was incurred within twenty
days after its collection or receipt by him; and in case of any neglect or fail­
ure in such payment such county treasurer may sue and collect the same of
such officer by action, in his name of office and upon the official bond of such
officer, if any he has given, with interest at the rate of twelve per centum per
annum from the time when it should have been so paid. 
SEC. 3307. Every town, village and city treas­
urer shall demand of and recover from each justice of the peace of his town,
village or city, respectively, all moneys received by such justice upon judg­
ments rendered by him in actions under this chapter, and everv such justice
shall, on demand of either such treasurers, produce to him his docket for ex­
amination and all proces3 and papers concerning or in such actions. In case
of refusal or neglect by such justice to pay over promptly such moneys upon
such demand such treasurer shall cause an action to be instituted for the re­
covery thereof against such justice and his sureties upon his official bond. 
SEC. 3308. On or before the first
Monday of February in each year every such town, village and city treasurer
shall pay to the treasurer of his county all moneys so collected by him accru­
ing to the state, taking a receipt therefor; and at the same time shall file with. 
he countv clerk of his county a statement, upon oath, containing the names
of the justices of the peace of his town, village and city,. respectively, the
amount of moneys so collected from each, the date of collection, the name of
the defendant in each case, the cause of action and date of the summons and
judgment. 
SEC. 3309. If any treasurer of a.nr town, village or
oity shall ne~lect or refuse to perform any of the duties required of him by this chapter he shall, upon conviction, be punished by imprisonment in the county
jail not less than three nor more than six months or by fine not less than fifty
nor more than three hundred dollars, or by both in the discretion of the
court; and the county treasurer shall forthwith bring an action upon the bond
of such treasurer, against him and his sureties, for the recovery of any moneys
which he has neglected or refused to pay over as required by this chapter. 
SEC. 8810. Every
county treasurer shall, on the first <lay of the annual meeting of the county
board of his county, submit to such board a statement in writmg, verified by
him, of all moneys" received by him during the year next preceding from such
town, village and city treasurers under this chapter, containing the names of
such treasurers, the amount received from each and date of receipt. Upon re­
ceipt of such statement said county board shall deduct all expenses incurred
by the county in recovering such forfeitures from the aggregate amount so re­
ceived, and the county clerk shall immediately certifv to the county treasurer
the amount of clear proceeds of such forfeitures, so ascertained, who shall pay
the same to the state treasurer as required by law. 
SEC. 3311. If any justice of the peace
shall, of his own will, dismiss any action brought before him under this chap­
ter, or release or discharge any property seized or detained under section 1580,
unless by order of the district attorney or attorney-general or the person
joined as plaintiff with the state, or render a less judgment therein than is pre­
scribed by law, or release or discharge any such judgment or :part thereof with­
out payment or collection, he and his sureties shall be liable, man action upon
his bond, for the full amount of the forfeitures imposed by law or of the for­
feiture imposed by him, as the case may be, or for an amount equal to the
amount in which he shall release or discharge any such judgment or any part
thereof; and if he shall give time or delay to any person against w horn any
such judgment is rendered by him, or take any bond or security for its future
payment, he and his sureties shall also be liable for the payment of such judg­
ment upon bis bond. 
SEC. 3312. Whenever, by
the provisions of law, any property, real or personal, shall be forfeited to this
state or to any otiicer for its use an action for the recovery of such property,
alleging the grounds of the forfeiture, may be brought by the proper otlicer m
the circuit court. 
SEC. 3313. In all actions brought under the
provisions of section 33u3 the town, city, village or corporation in whose name
such action is brought shall be liable for the costs of prosecution; and, if
judgment be for defendant. for all the costs of the action, and judgment shall 
be entered accordingly. In all other actions brought under the provisions of
this chapter, except as provided in section 3297, the county in wbich the for­
feiture was incurred shall be liable for the costs of the prosecution, and, if judg­
ment be for defendant, for all the costs of the action. 
SEC. 3314. Every person who, and firm, corporation or association which, as princi­
pal contractor, architect, civil engineer or surveyor who performs or procures
to be performed any work or labor, furnishes any materials or prepares any
plans, specifications or estimates: 
1. For or in or about the erection, construction, repair, protection or removal
of any dwelling-house, building or appurtenance thereto, structure, bridge,
wharf, dock, pier, fence, wall or screen or other permanent erection or any
machinery so erected or constructed as to be or become a part of the freehold
upon which it is situated; 
2. In or about the improving or equipping of any house or building with 
chandeliers, brackets, wires, pipes or appurtenances for supplying gas, electric
or other light, water or heat; 
3. In the dredging, digging, excavating, constructing or equipping any chan­
nel, well, cellar, vault, fountain, fish-pond, trench or tunnel; 
. 4. In the filling, dredging, improving, digging, driving or removing piles in
any water or water-course, any water-lot, meadow, marsh, swamp or other low
lands; 
5. In the making or repairing any walk, sidewalk, crosswalk, ourbing or I 
apron;
6. In grading, graveling, leveling or otherwise constructing or repairing any 
street, alley, road way or gutter upon land, irrespective of any easement on or
over said land; 
7. Or in setting out or planting any hedge, or fruit or ornamental trees;
Shall have a lien thereupon and upon the interest of the owner of any such 
building, machinery or other structure or work of any kind herein mentioned,
or of the interest of the person causing such work or labor to be done, or such
materials, plans, specifications or estimates to be furnished in and to the land
upon which the same is situated, not exceeding forty acres, or if within the
limits of a city or incorporated village upon the piece or parcel of land designed
for use in connection with such house, building, machinery, structure or other
such work, not exceeding one acre. Such lien shall be prior to any other lien
which originates subsequent to the commencement of the construction, repairs,
removal or work aforesaid of or upon such dwelling-house, building, machinery,
structure or work; shall also be prior to any unrecorded mortgage given be­ 
fore the commencement of sucli construction, repairs, removal or work, of
which mortgage the person claiming the lien has no notice, and shall also at­
tach to and be a lien upon the real property of any person upon whose prem­
ises such improvements are made, such owner havrn? knowledge thereof and
consenting thereto, and may be enforced as provided in this chapter. In case
any person shall order or contract for the purchase of any machinery to h& 
placed in or connected to or with any building or premises, and such person
shall not have an interest in such building or premises in or connected with
which such machinerv is placed sufficient for a lien, as provided for in this chapter, to secure pav"'ment for said machinery the person furnishing the same
shall have and retain "'a lien upon such machinery and have the right to remove
from such building or premises such machinery, in case there shall be default
in making payment therefor when due, leaving such building or premises in as
good condition as before such machinery was placed in or on the same. 
Every person who, as principal contractor, does or causes or procures to be
done any manual labor on land, for the purpose of preparing such land for
use as such, shall have a like lien upon such land, subject to the same provis­
ions and attaching to the same interests as the lien hereinbefore provided for.
And whenever the doing of any such manual labor shall consist of the build­ 
ing of a continuous road-bed, structure or plant designed or intended for use 
ag; or as part of, a single thing, and such road-bed, structure or plant is not
limited in extent to one acre of land in or partly in a city or incorporated vil­
lage or to forty acres of land wholly or partly outside the same, but extends
over and across more than one acre, wholly or partly within such city or vil­
lage, or more than forty acres, whether within or without or partly within
and partly without such city or village, then and in every such case the limita­
tion to one acre or forty acres, as the case may be, shall not apply, but the
party entitled shall have a lien upon all the interests of the owner in and to
the whole of said continuous road-bed, structure or plant and the whole of his
land on which the same is constructed or which is intended to be used or is
used for the purpose of such road-bed, structure or plant; and the claimant
may make and file a single petition or claim for a lien on all the same, w hicb 
petition or a copy thereof shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit
court of each county in which such road-bed, structure or plant is situate or
partly situate, and such lien may be foreclosed or enforced in the circuit court
of any of the said counties in which the said claim or petition is so filed, and
in the enforcement thereof the said road-bed, structure or plant, if sold, shall
be sold as one continuous and single thing. And whenever the doing of any
work or labor or the furnishing of any material for which a lien is gfren by
this section shall consist of the grading, filling or leveling of land, or the grad­
ing, graveling or making of any street, alley, roadway or gutter thereon or
thereover, where such land is situated within tho limits of a city or incorpo­
rated village and said material is furnished or said work done .upon more than
one acre under a contract for the improvement of more than one acre, in the
manner aforesaid, then and in every such case the limitation to one acre shall
not apply, but the party entitled shall have a. lien on all the land upon
which said work is done or for the improvement of which said material is fur­
nished, and may make and file a single petition or claim for a lien on all of
the same; provided, that the lien given for grading, filling or leveling land, or
grading, graveling or making any street, alley, roadway or gutter thereon or
tbereover shall not exist when such work is done or the material necessary
for the doing of the same is furnished under contract with or by direction of
any city or village. This section shall not be construed as giving a. lien where
the relation of landlord and tenant exists, against the interest of the landlord
for improvements made or labor performed- at the instance of the tenant or
lessee, but the lien shall affect the interest of the tenant or lessee only. 
An assignment of his claim or right to a lien or any part thereof by the
contractor or garnishment by his creditor shall not operate to compel the
owner to pay the assignee or creditor until the claims of subcontractors and
employees under section 3315 shall either have matured by notice or expired
by lapse of time. If such claims, under section 3315, become liens the owner
shall be compelled to pay such assignee or creditor only what may remain due
in addition to such liens. 
SEC. 3315. Every person who, as subcontractor of a principal contractor
or as an employee of either, performs any work or labor for or furnishes any
materials to either in any of the cases mentioned in the preceding section may
have the lien and remedy given by this chapter if, within sixty days after per­
forming such work or labor or furnishing such materials, he shall give notice
in writing to the owner, or his agent, of the property to be affected by such
lien, if to be found in the county, and if neither can he found therein, by tiling
such notice in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of said county, setting
forth that he has been employed by such principal contractor or subcontractor
to perform or furnish, and has performed or furnished, such work, labor or
material, with a statement of the labor performed or the materials furnished,
the amount due therefor from such principal contractor or subcontractor, and
that he claims the lien given by this chapter. In all cases where a lien shall
be filed under the provisions of this chapter by any person other than the
principal contractor it shall be his duty to defend any action brou~ht there­
upon at his own expense, and during the pendency of such action the owner 
mav withhold from the contractor the amount of money for which such lien
shall be filed; and in case of judgment against the owner or his property upon
the lien he may deduct from any amount due by him to the contractor the
amount of such judgment and costs, and if he shall have settled with the con­
tractor in full may recover from him any amount so paid for which the con­ 
tractor was originally liable. And any contractor or subcontractor who shall
purchase materials on credit and represent at the time of making the purchase
that the same are to be used in a designated building or other improvement
and shall thereafter use or cause to be used the said material in the construc­
tion of any building or improvement other than that designated, without the
written consent of the person from whom the materials were purchased, with
intent to defraud such person, shall be punished by imprisonment in the county
jail not more than three months or by a fine not exceeding three hundred
dollars. 
SEC. 3316. All claims
for liens and rights of action to recover therefor under this chapter shall be as­ 
signable so as to vest in the assignee all rights and remedies herein given, sub­
ject to all defenses thereto that might be made if such assignment had not been
made. Notice in writing of such assignment, together with a copy thereof,
shall be served upon the owner of the property affected by such claim for lien
within fifteen days after such assignment is made; and all payments made by
such original owner, before service of such notice of assignment, shall discharge
his original debt to the amount so paid. 
SEC. 3317. The taking of a promissory
note or other evidence of indebtedness for any such work, labor or materials
done or furnished shall not discharge the lien therefor hereby given unless ex­
pressly received as payment therefor and so specified therein. 
SEC. 3318. No lien hereby given
shall exist and no action to enforce the same shall be maintained unless within 
six months from the date of the last charge for performing such work and
labor or of the furnishing of such materials a claim for such hen shall be filed
as hereinafter provided in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the
county in which the lands affected thereby lie and such action be brought
within one year from such date, unless within thirty days next preceding the
expiration of such year the person who filed the lien or his agent, attorney or
assi~nee shall make and annex to the instrument on file an affidavit setting
forth the interest which the lien claimant has .by virtue of such lien in the 
property therein mentioned, upon which affidavit the clerk shall indorse the
_time of its filing. The effect of such affidavit shall not continue beyond one 
vear from the time when such lien would otherwise cease to be valid. Such
claim for lien mav be filed and docketed within such six months notwithstand­
ing the death of the owner of the property affected thereby or the person with
whom the original contract was made, with like effect as if he were then
living. 
SEC. 3319. Every clerk of the circuit court shall keep
a separate docket, to be entitled "lien docket," in which shall be entered the
proper entries, under the appropriate headings herein specified, relative to 
each claim for lien filed with him, immediately upon its filing, opposite the
names of the persons against whom the lien is claimed, which names shall be
ent.ered therein alphabetically, or an alphabetical index thereof shall be kept
as Judgment dockets are required by law to be kept. Each page of such docket
shall be divided into eight columns, with written or printed headings to the
respective columns, as follows: 
Such docket shall be presumptive evidence of the correctness of the entries
therein made. 
SEC. 3320. Such claim for lien shall contain a state-
ment of the contract or demand upon which it is founded, the name of the
person against whom the demand is claimed, the name of the claimant or as­ 
signee, the last date of the performance of labor or furnishing of materials, a
description of the property affected thereby, a statement of the amount claimed
and all other material facts in relation thereto. It shall be signed by the claim­
ant or by his attorney, and need not be verified, and may be amended, in case
of action brought, by order of the court as pleadings may be. 
SEC. 3321. Any person having so filed such claim for a lien may foreclose the same
by action in the circuit court or any county court having jurisdiction thereof.
All persons having filed such claims for liens for work done or materials fur­
nished in the cases mentioned in sections 3314 and 3315 may join as plaintiffs;
and if any do not so join or refuse to so join they may be made parties de­
fendant. All persons havinz liens upon the premises by mortgage, judgment
or otherwise, subsequent to the lien sought to be foreclosed, and Ji purchasers
of the premises subsequent to such lien may be joined as parties defendant.
In case any person who has filed such claim for lien prior to the commence­
ment of such action, or who has such subsequent lien, or who is such subse­ 
quent p~rcbaser, is _not made a party to such action he may, upon application
at any time before Judgment, be made a party defendant thereto, and any per­
son who shall file such claim for lien after the commencement of such action
or who shall obtain such subsequent lien by mortgage, judgment or otherwise,
or become such subseq ueut purchaser after the filing of the notice of the pend­ 
ency of such action, may, at any time before judgment, upon application, be 
made a party defendant thereto. If such action be brought by a suboontraotor
the principal contractor may also be made a party defendant thereto. When
the flace of trial is changed all subsequent proceedings, including the bringing 
in o new parties, shall be had in the county to whicli such change is made. 
SEC. 3322. The complaint in such action shall be sufflcicn t 
if it set forth the substance of the. contract under which such work was done 
or materials furnished, with the last date of doing or furnishing the same, and
the assignment of the claim, if any, and allege that the plaintiff or his assignee
has filed a claim for a lien therefor, as required by law, giving the date of such
filing, that such work was done or materials furnished for some of the purposes
mentioned in section 3314, stating for what particular purpose, the amount
claimed to be due the plaintiff or plaintiffs respectively, and give a description
of the premises claimed to be affected by such lien; as to defendants who have
filed claims for liens on said premises under the provisions of this chapter, that
they have filed such claims, giving the date of filing and the amount claimed
by each; as to defendants having subsequent liens or being subsequent pur­
chasers, that they have or claim to have some lien upon or interest in the
premises, subsequent and subject to the lien of the plaintiff, and shall demand
judgment that the rights of all persons having filed claims for liens upon such
premises, whetherplamtiffs or defendants, be ascertainedand adjudged and that
the interest of the person owning such premises at the time of the commence­
ment of the work or furnishing the material for which the lien is claimed or
which he or any other person claiming under him has since acquired be sold
to satisfy the amount of the liens so ascertained and adjudged, with the oosts
-0f the action. If the action be brought by a subcontractor or employee too 
complaint shall also set forth in substance the contract between him and the
contractor and allege that he gave the notice required by section 3315, and the
date of the service thereof. 
SEC. 3323. Snch actions shall be deemed equitable
and any issue of fact therein may be referred by the court as in other cases. 
SEC. 8324. The judgment in such action shall adjudge the
amount due to the plaintiff, or in case several claims for liens are embraced in
the action the amount due to each claimant who is a party to the action. It
shall direct that the interest of the owner in the premises at the time of the
commencement of the work or furnishing the materials for which liens are
given, or which he or any person claiming under him has sinee acquired, or so
mnch thereof as may be necessary, be sold to satisfy the amount of the lien
of the plaintiff or ol the several liens embraced. in the action, with the costs
of such action, including the cost of filing the claims for liens; and that, after
satisfyin$' the same, together with such costs, the residue of the proceeds be
brought mto court with the report of sale to abide the order of the oourt. If
the premises can be sold in parcels without injury to or to the advanta.se of
the parties the court may adjudge that the sale be so made. If the plamtiff
in anv such action fail to establish his lien upon the premises described in his
complaint and claim for lien, but establish a right to recover upon contract
for his alleged work and labor done or materials furnished, he may have a
personal judgment in the action against the party liable for the amount due
him, with or without costs, to be taxed in his favor or in favor of the defend­
ant in like manner as if the action were for the recovery of money only.
SEC. 3325. From the proceeds of
such sale the several claimants whose liens were established and adjudged in
the action shall be paid equally and alike, without priority among themselves;
and if the sum realized at such sale shall be insufficient, after paying the costs
of the action and the costs of making the sale, to pay the full amount adjudged
to be due all such claimants then the same shall be distributed and paid to 
each of them in the proportion which the sum adjudged to each bears to the
whole amount adjudged to all, and the judgment shall so direct. 
SEC. 3326. A 
sales under such judgments may be made by the sheriff or a referee appoint
by the court for that purpose, who shall give notice thereof in the manner
provided by law for tlie sale of real estate upon execution, unless the court
shall order other or different notice to be given, and shall be absolute and with­
out redemption; and the deed given thereon, in case such sale is confirmed,
shall be effectual to pass to the purchaser all the interest in the premises di­
rected to be sold. Such sheriff or referee shall, within ten days after making
such sale, file with the clerk of the court in which the judgment is rendered a
report of the sale for confirmation thereof and shall, immediately after the
sale, pay to the parties entitled thereto the amounts adjudged to them respect­
ively, after deducting the costs thereof, unless otherwise ordered by the court. 
If any deficiency arise upon such sale in the payment of the sums adjudged to
be due to any such claimant of a lien given by this chapter the sheriff or ref­
eree shall specify the amount of such deficiency in his report, and if demanded
in the complaint or in the answer of any such lien claimant the court, upon
confirming such sale, may render judgment therefor against the defendant le­
gally liable to pay the same, which judgment may be docketed and enforced
m the same manner that ordinary judgments are. And the purchaser or pur­
chasers at such sale shall be entitled to a writ of assistance to obtain posses­
sion of the premises sold in the same manner as is provided in section 3025. 
SEC. 3327. Every person who has
received satisfaction or tender of his debt, with the costs of any action brought 
thereon or of any judgment recovered therefor, for which he has filed any such 
claim for lien, shall, at the request of any person interested in the premises
affected thereby or in having such lien removed, on payment of the costs of
satisfying the same, execute and deliver by him or his attorney the necessary
acknowledgment of satisfaction thereof; on filing which with the clerk of the
court with whom such lien is docketed such clerk shall enter satisfaction of
such claim; or the lien claimant may enter the same satisfied on the docket of
such lien. On failure to so execute and deliver such acknowledgment of satis­
faction or to so satisfy such lien on the docket the person refusing shall be liable
to pay to the person requiring such acknowledgment a sum equal to one-half
of the sum claimed in his claim for lien, to be recovered by action. 
SEC. 3828. Any en b­ 
oon tractor who has done work or labor or furnished materials to any principal
contractor for the construction, repair or removal of any building or machinery
for any county, town, city, village or school district may maintain an action
therefor in the county in which such work, labor or materials were done or
furnished against such principal contractor and such county, town, city, village
or school district, jointly for the recovery thereof; but no judgment shall be
rendered against any defendant therein, other than such principal contractor,
for any amount greater than the amount due from it to such principal con­
tractor at the time of the commencement of such action. Suoh county, town, 
city, village or school district, when served with the summons in any such ac­
tion, may give notice thereof to such principal contractor and on so doing
need not further defend such action. On rendition of judgment in such action
against such principal contractor the court may also reader judgment against
such county, town, city, village or school district for the amount due from it 
to such principal contractor at the time of the commencement of such action
or to a sufficient amount to pay the jud~ment recovered against the principal
oontractor, and payment thereof shall discharge its indebtedness to suoh prin­
cipal contractor to the amount so paid. Such principal contractor may, in
such action, file in the court in which it is commenced a bond, in such sum and
with such sureties as the judge of such court shall approve, conditioned for the
payment of any judgment that may be rendered in such action, and thereupon
the liability of such county, town, city, village or school district hereunder
shall cease, and the action as to it shall be discontinued without costs to it. 
SEC. 3329. Any person who shall do
or perform any labor or services in cutting, hauling, running, felling, piling,
driving, rafting, booming, cribbing, towing, sawing, peeling or manufacturing
into lumber or timber any logs, timber, stave-bolts, staves, pulp wood, cord
wood, railroad ties, piling, telegraph poles, telephone poles, fence posts, paving
timber, tan or other barks or m preparing wood for or manufacturing char­
coal shall have a lien upon such material for the amount due or to become due 
for such labor or services, which lien shall take precedence of all other claims,
liens or Iuoumbranoes thereon or sales thereof, whether such claims, liens, in­ 
cumbranoes or sales are made, oeeated or aoerne before or after the time of
doing such work, labor or services. 
SEC.  3330. No debt or
demand for such labor or services shall become a lien upon the material men· 
tioned in the preceding section unless a petition therefor in writing shall be
made and signed by the claimant and verified by him or bv some one in his
behalf, under oath, setting forth the nature of the debt or demand for which
the lien is claimed, the amount claimed to be due, a description of the prop­
erty upon which such lien is claimed and an averment that the petitioner
claims a lien thereon pursuant to law. Such petition shall be filed in the office
of the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which such labor or services
or some part thereof were done or performed. If the labor or services for
which such lien is claimed be performed between the first. day of November
and the first day of May following or if such labor or services be commenced
on a day prior to the first day of November and be continuous to a day be­
tween that and the first day of May the petition for the lien shall be filed on
or before the first day of June next thereafter; and if such labor or services
shall have been done or performed after the first day of May and shall termi­
nate before the first day of November, or if the doing or performing of such
labor or services shall be cpntinuous from the first day of November or a day
prior thereto to a date beyond the first day of May following, and in all other
cases the petition for a lien shall be tiled within thirty days after the last
day of doing or performing such labor or services, and such labor or services
shall be deemed continuous notwithstanding a change of ownership in the
property on which such lien is claimed. The clerk with whom such petition
for a lien is filed shall receive twenty-fl ve cents for filing the' same.
SEC. 3331. All actions to enforce any such lien, except as hereinafter provided, may
be brought in the circuit court of the county where the petition thereof is
filed, when the amount claimed, over and above all legal set-offs, exceeds one
hundred dollars, or before any municipal court or justice of the peace having
jurisdiction of the amount claimed in the county in which such petition is
filed. Actions may be commenced to enforce and foreclose any such lien, if
the amount owing for such labor or services shall then be due, immediately
after the filing of such petition for lien, and such claim for labor or services
shall cease to be a lien on the property described in such petition unless an ac­
tion to foreclose such lien be commenced within four months after filing such
petition. If the claim be not due at the time of filing such petition the time
when the same will become due shall be stated therein, and in such case such 
· claim shall not cease to be a lien on the property described in the petition
until thirty days after the claim shall have become due; provided, th4t such
claim shall continue a. lien upon the property so described m all cases for four
months after the filing of such petition. Where the property subject to such
lien has been transported or taken from the county where such work was done
the person in whose favor such lien exists may bring an action to foreclose the .
same in any county where said property may be found. In all actions brought 
to foreclose such liens the person, company or corporation liable for the pay- -
ment of such debt or claim shall be made the party defendant and any person
claiming to own or have any interest in such property may be also made a
defendant, but shall not be held personally liable for any costs unless he de­
fends the action. In actions appealed from m~ni~ipal or j~stice court no 
- change of venue shall be allowed except for prejudice of the Judge or of the
people. 
SEC. 3332. The plaintiff in such action may have the remedy by attachment of the
property upon which the lien is claimed as in personal actions; such attach­
ment may be issued, served and returned 'and like proceedings had thereon,
including the release of any attached property, upon giving an undertaking
in such sum as may be fixed by the court or judge for the payment of
the amount which may be finally determined to be a lien on the property.
The affidavit for the attachment must state that the defendant, who is per­
sonally liable to the plaintiff therefor, is indebted to him in the sum named,
over· and above all legal set-offs, for such labor or services done or per­
formed as entitles the plaintiff to a lien thereon, describe the property on
which it is claimed such work was done or services were performed and
aver that the plaintiff bas filed his petition for a lien pursuant to law; but no
other faot need be stated therein. No undertaking upon such attachment or
security for costs in actions hereunder before municipal courts or justices of
the peace need be given unless upon application of some defendant in the ac­
tion showing by atfida vit that he has a good and valid defense to the plaint­
iff's claim, and no order shall be made by any circuit court or any judge 
thereof requiring the giving of an undertaking or security for costs except
upon ten <fays' notice to the plaintiff. The writ of attachment shall direct
the officer to whom it is issued to attach the property described or so much
thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy the sum claimed to be due thereon and 
to hold the same subject to further proceedings iu the action. The officer
executing such writ shall make return thereon of his doings in the premises,
but it shall not be necessary for him to make and serve an inventory or ap­
praisal of the property attached; he shall also pay any charges that may be
Jue for booming or driving the property attached, and the amount so paid
shall be taxed as a part of the costs of the action. In actions in the circuit
court, where personal service of the summons and writ of attachment cannot
be made upon the defendant, service shall be made as provided by law for
service of summons on non-residents or persons who cannot be found as in 
other actions in such court, and if the action be in justice's or municipal court
and the defendants cannot be found the provisions of law relating to service 
of attachments upon non-residents or persons who cannot be found in other
~tions in such courts, shall govern and apply to snob action to foreclose a lien. 
SEC. 3333. When more than one per­
son has a claim for a lien upon the same property any person having such a
claim may have assigned to him in writing the debt or claim of the other, sub­
ject to set-offs to su.d claim against the original owner, and may file a petition
for his own lien and for the claims for liens so assigned to him and bring an
action to enforce the same in his own name; but such petition shall allege such
assignment. Any time check or time order signed and given by any employer
to any emplo;ree for performing any labor or services or any claim therefor
for which a hen is given by section 3329 shall be assignable, and the assign­
ment thereof shall give to the assignee all the right to a lien and to the en- 
forcement thereof which the assignor might have exercised bat for such assign­
ment. 
SEC. 8384. The attachment issued
by anv justice of the peace shall be returned as an ordinary summons and may
be in the following form: 
-- ccunty, ss.
The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said countv: 
You are commanded to attach the following goods and chattels (here insert
a description of the property described in such affidavit) or so much thereof
as shall be sufficient to satisfy the sum of -- dollars, with interest and costs,
and disbursements of suit, in whosoever hands or possession the same may be 
found in your county, and so provide that the same so attached may be sub­ 
ject to the further proceedings thereon as the law requires, and also to sum­
mon -- --, if to be found; to be and appear before me at my office in said 
_--, on the -- day of --, A. D. 18-, at -- o'clock in the --noon, to 
answer to -- -- to his damage, two hundred dollars (1200) or under.
Given under my hand at --, this -- day of --, A. D. 18-. 
J. P., Justice of the Peace. 
SEC. 3335. The taking of a
promissory note or other evidence of debt for any such labor or services done
or performed shall not discharge the lien therefor hereby given unless expressly 
received in payment therefor and so specified therein. 
SEC. 3386. If any property upon
which a lien is claimed under the foregoing provisions shall, during the!.end­ 
ency of the claim therefor, be transported out of this state, secrete , de­
stroyed, sold, incumbcred or so changed in character by intermingling it with
other property as to prevent the property upon which the lien is claimed from
being subjected to the satisfaction of the lien, the owner of such property and
every purchaser thereof or person acquiring any interest therein during the
pendency of such claim shall be liable to the lien claimant for the amount
which may be adjudged to be due him, which amount may be recovered against
any such person in a personal action; provided the petition for a lien is tiled in
accordanoe with law and an action to foreclose the same is 'begun within the
time limited therefor. 
SEC. 3337. Whenever two
or more persons own logs or timber, on any river in this state or any of its
tributaries, which are so intermixed that they cannot be conveniently sepa­
rated for floating or driving them to the place of destination and either owner
shall refuse or neglect to make the necessary provision or to furnish the nec­
essary labor and materials for floating or driving them to such place, any other
owner may drive all such logs or timber to such place and shall receive reason­
able compensation for so driving the portion thereof belonging to such owner
so neglecting or refusing from such owner, and shall have a lien for such com­
pensation and may enforce the same by action as herein provided for the en­
forcement of liens upon logs or timber. 
SEC. 3338. Every company in­
corporated for the imprevement of rivers and streams, whose charter author­
izes it to collect tolls on logs, lumber or timber for such improvements or for
any other work done on or about the same, shall have a lien thereon, with the
remedies herein given to enf orce the same, to the same extent and in the same
manner that liens are hereby given for labor and services in respect to logs or 
timber. 
SEC. 3339. The complaint in any action to enforce a lien
given upon any material mentioned in section 3329 shall, in addition to the or­
dinary allegations in actions upon contracts, allea-e the filing of the petition
for a lien as hereinbefore provided, and such allegation shall be taken to be
true unless expressly denied by the defendant or by some one in his behalf in
an affidavit or verified answer, and shall contain a description of the property
upon which a lien is claimed, and if any part of the claim has been assigned to
the plaintiff that fact shall be alleged. 
SEC. 3340. The court or jury which
tries any action hereunder shall, in addition to the sum due the plaintiff, find,
if such be proven, that the same is due for the labor or services performed or
some part of them as alleged in the complaint, and that the same is a lien upon
the property or some part thereof described therein, and the judgment shall
be in accordance with the findings. Costs shall be taxed and allowed as in 
personal actions, including an attorney's fee of ten per cent. of the claim, but
m no case shall such fee exceed ten dollars. The execution, in addition to the
directions and commands of ordinary executions upon judgments for money,
shall direct that the property upon which the lien is found to exist or so much
thereof as may be necessary for such purpose be sold to satisfy said judgment,
costs and attornev's fee, including the costs of sale. If the court or jury find
that the amount due the plaintiff is not a lien upon any part of such property
it shall be released from the attachment if it has been attached. The plaintiff
shall, in such case, have judgment for the amount so found due, with costs, as
in ordinary civil actions, but he shall not recover the costs of executing such
attachment. 
SEC. 3340a. In any action
for the enforcement of a lien upon any of the property mentioned in section 
3329 any person not a party thereto may, at anv time before or after judgment
and before an actual sale of the property upon "'which a lien is claimed, become
a party defendant by filing with the clerk of the court where such action is
pending, or with the justice of the peace in actions pending in a justice court,
an affidavit made by such person or in his behalf to the effect that he is the
owner of or of some interest in the property upon which a lien is claimed and
verily believes that said claim for lien is unjust and invalid; upon filing such
affidavit he may defend said action so far as a claim for a lien is concerned,
and in case judgment has been previously rendered for a lien he may appeal
within twenty days after the filing of such affidavit as in other cases; provided,
that his right to tile an affidavit or take an appeal shall not extend beyond
one year from the date of the rendition of the Judgment. 
SEC. 334:0b. Such appeal
shall not stay execution unless the appellant tiles an undertaking, with two or 
more sureties, who shall each justify in a sum equal to double the amount of
the judgment, conditioned that if the plaintiff establish bis right to a lien on
such property they will pay the amount of the judgment in his favor with
costs; said undertaking shall be approved hy the judge of the court to which
the appeal is taken; and upon filing it all proceedings upon the judgment ap­
pealed from shall be stayed during the pendency of such appeal, and in case
execution shall have been previously issued the same shall, upon presenting to
the officer in whose custody it may be a certified copy of such affidavit and 
. undertaking and certificate of the justice or clerk of the court that an appeal
has been perfected, be returned, and all property in which appellant shall
claim an interest that may have been levied upon shall be released from such
levy. If upon the trial in the appellate court the plaintiff shall recover judg­
ment of lien upon such property such judgment may be entered against the 
appellant and his sureties; but if the plaintiff does not establish his right to a
lien the appellant shall recover judgment for costs. When the judgment to
be appealed from is rendered in justice's court and by reason of the death of
the Justice who rendered it or any other cause the affidavi_t and undertaking
cannot be :eresenood to him they may, with notice of appeal and affidavit upon
appeal, be filed with the clerk of the court to which such appeal is taken within 
the time aforesaid. 
SEC. 8341. All persons performing any labor or services
by oooking or manufacturing food for men while they are performing labor
or services upon any property mentioned in section 3329, at the request of the
per~on employing the men for whom suoh food is cooked or manufactured 
shall be deemed to have performed labor or services upon such property and
shall have the right of lien therefor the same as the men for whom such
food was cooked or manufactured. The right of lien given upon such prop­
erty shall survive any change in the nature thereof by reason of any process
of manufacturing, and all persons who may claim such right under the pro­
visions of this chapter shall have the right of lien upon the manufactured prod­
uct as though the labor bad been performed directly upon the same. 
SEC. 3342. Appeals may be taken
from all judgments rendered by justices of the peace, and the judgment of
circuit and county oonrts hereunder may be revised by the supreme court as in
ordinary civil actions, and no lien for supplies shall be had under this chapter,
except in the counties of Oconto and Douglas. 
SEC. 334-2a. In en­
forcing claims for driving logs on the Chippewa river and its tributaries or 
any part thereof it shall be a sufficient filing of the lien petition if it is filed in
the office of the clerk of the circuit court for Chippewa county. In case the
driving of any mark of logs is not completed the first season and the work of 
driving said logs is done during a subsequent season a notice may be filed in
said office witliin thirty days after the last work is done the first season, stat­
ing that a lien is claimed for driving said logs and the amount thereof, and
such filing shall preserve the lien till thirty days after the last work is done
in driving said mark of logs the subsequent season. At any time within thirty
days after such work is done the last season a petition for a lien may be filed·
in the office of said clerk, which may include all claims for driving said mark
of logs during both seasons, in case the notice shall have been filed as afore- .
said. An action to enforce such lien for driving may be commenced in Chip­ 
pewa county at any time within four months after the petition is filed for·
such lien, and such lien shall extend to all the logs of the mark to which it re­
lates. The provisions of the next following section shall apply in all such.
cases except as is otherwise provided herein. 
SEC. 3342b. 
In actions to enforce liens on logs or timber which have been marked the offi­
cer having the writ of attachment or execution shall make his levy by indors­
ing on or annexing to the writ his certificate reciting that b>: virtue of said
writ he has levied on the logs or timber described therein, specifying the num­
ber of feet, as nea.r as may be, levied upon, the sum due the plaintiff, includ­
ing costs and disbursements, and by .filing a certified copy of the writ and
certificate in the office of the lumber inspector who scaled the logs; provided,
that when a levy is made by virtue of a. writ of attachment in the action no
further levy after judgment shall be necessary, but such levy shall continue·
until the lien is satisfied; and provided further, that in actions to enforce liens.
on logsout to be banked on the Chippewa river or any of its tributaries, except
the Eau Claire river, where the logs have beenmarked, a certified copy of the·
writ of attachment or execution and of the officer's certificate shall be filed in
the office of the clerk of the circuit court of Chippewa oonnty and that if the
petition for a lien is not filed in said office the levy shall not be complete until
such copy is filed therein. Said clerk and lumber inspector shall each be en­ titled to fifteen cents for filing the copy 9f snob writ and certificate. When a . 
levy is made in such manner the officer who made it shall be deemed to be in
tbe possession of the number of feet of said mark of logs or timber specified in
such certificate, and if a sale of such logs or timber is made it shall not be nec­
essary for the officer making it to be in view thereof. Any person who saws,
buys or uses any of the mark of logs or timber so levied on before the lien
claim is satisfied shall be liable to the lien claimant or officer making the levv
or holding the writ for the amount claimed therein, together with costs and
disbursements. The person purchasing at the officer's sale may claim the
amount of logs or timber by him purchased from said mark wherever the same
may be found or may recover the value thereof from any person who shall
have sawed or otherwise used any of said logs or timber subsequent to the levy
thereon. 
SEC. 3342c. Any person who shall perform any
labor or services for any person or corporation engaged in or organized for the
purpose of mining, smelting or manufacturing iron, copper, silver or other ores
or minerals, and any bona fide holder of any draft, time check or order for the
payment of money due for any such labor, issued or drawn by any such per­
son or corporation, shall have a lien for the wages due him for the amount due- 
on such draft, check or order upon all the personal property connected with
such mining, smelting or manufacturing industry belongmg to such person or
corporation, including the ores or products of such mine or manufaotory, to­
gether with the machinery and other personal property used in the operation
of such mine or manufactory and all the interest of such person or corporation
in any real estate belonging thereto and connected with such business, which
said lien shall take precedence of all other debts, judgments, decrees, liens or
mortgages against such person or corporation, except liens accruing for taxes,
fines or penalties, su bjeot to the exceptions and limitations hereinafter set forth.
SEC. 3342d. Such lien shall extend
only to the amount of the interest in the real property held by such employer
or employers, and in case of his or their death or insolvency, or of the sale or 
.transfer o.f such works, mines, manufactories or business, or his or their inter­
est therein by execution or otherwise, all moneys that may be due for wages
to anv miner, mechanic or laborer shall be a lien upon all said property and
shall 'be preferred and first paid out of the proceeds of the sale thereof; pro­
vided, that no such claim shall be a lien upon any real estate unless it shall be 
filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which the
real estate upon which a. lien is claimed is situated within sixty days after the
claim, draft, time check or order is due and payable in the manner claims for
mechanics' liens are required to be filed. 
SEC. 8342". If an attachment, execution or similar
writ shall be issued against any ~rson or corporation engaged in such business
as is within section 33420, any miner, laborer, meohanio or other person who
is entitled to olaim ·a lien thereon may give notice in writing of such claim and
the amount thereof, verified by affidavit, to the officer holding any such writ
at any time before the actual sale of the property affected thereby, and such
officer shall retain out of the proceeds of such sale a sufficient sum to satisfy
all such claims, which sum shall be held by him, subject to such order as the
court may make. 
SEC. 3342f. No mortgage or other instrument by
which a lien is created shall operate to impair or postpone the lien and prefer­
ence given and secured to the wages and moneys mentioned in section 3342c; 
provided, that no lien of any mortgage or judgment entered before such labor 
is performed shall be affected or impaired by such lien.
SEC. 3342g. The liens and preferences given by
the four/receding sections may be foreclosed in the same manner as mechanics'
liens, an all provisions of these statutes relating to the foreclosure thereof
shall apply to the foreolosure of the liens so given, so far as such provisions are
applicable. 
SEC. 3348. · Every meohanio who shall make, alter or
repair any article of personal property at the request of the owner or legal 
possessor of such property shall have a lien thereon for his just and reasonable
charges therefor, and may retain possession of such property until such charges
are paid. 
SEC. 8344. Every inn­
keeper and every keeper of a boarding-house shall have a lien upon and retain
the possessi?n of the baggage and etf ects of any guest or boarder for th_e
amount which may be due mm for board from such guest or boarder until
such amount is paid; and every keeper of a livery or boarding-stable, and
every personJasturing or keeping any horses, carriage, harness, mules, cattle
or stock sh~ have a lien upon and may retain the possession of any such
horses, carnage, harness, mules, cattle or stock for the amount which may be 
due him for the keeping, supporting and care thereof until such amount is
paid.
SEC. 3345. Every consignee of property
shall have a lien thereon for any money advanced or negotiable soounty given
by him to or for the use of the person in whose name the shipment of such
property is made, and for anv money or negotiable security received by such
person for his use unless he shall, before advancing any such money, or giving
such security, or before it is so received for his use, have notice that such per­
son is 'not the actual owner thereof.
SEC. 3346. Evcrv
factor, broker 01' other azent intrusted by the owner with the possession of 
any bill of lading, custom-house permit, warehouse receipt or other evidence
of the title to personal property, or with the possession of personal propertv
for the purpose of sale or as security for any advances made or liability by him
incurred in reference to such property, shall have a lien upon such personal
property for all such advances, liability incurred or commissions or other mon­ 
eys due him for services as such factor, broker or agent, and may retain the
possession of such property until such advances, commissions or moneys are
paid or such liability is discharged. 
SEC. 8347. Every person having a lien
given by either of the four last sections or existing in favor of any bailee for
hire, carrier, warehouseman or pawnee or otherwise, by the common law, may,
in case such debt remain unpaid for three months and the value of the prop­
erty affected thereby does not exceed one hundred dollars, sell such property
at public auction and apply the proceeds of such sale to the payment of the
amount due him and the expenses of such sale. Notice, in writmg, of the time
and place of such sale and of the amount claimed to be due shall be given to
the owner of such property personall1, or by leaving the same at his place of
abode, if a resident of this state, and 1f not, by pnbhcation thereof once in each
week, for three weeks successively, next before the time of sale in some news­
P.aper published in the county in which such lien accrues, if there be one, and
1f not, by posting such notice in three public places in such county. If suoh
property exceed in value one hundred dollars, then such lien may be enforced
against the same by action in any court having jurisdiction. 
SEC. 3347a. Every owner of a
stallion or jackass kept and used for breeding purposes shall have a lien upon
any colt gotten by such stallion or jackass for the sum stifulated to be paid
for the service thereof, and may seize and take possession o said colt without 
process at any time before it is one year old, in case the price agreed upon for 
such service remains unpaid, and sell the same at public auction upon ten days'
notice, to be posted in at least three public places in the town where the owner
of such oolt resides, and apply the proceeds of such sale to the payment of the
amount due for such service and the expenses of such seizure and sale, return­
ing the residue, if any, to the party entitled thereto; provided, no such lien
shall be effeotual for any purpose as against an innocent purchaser of such colt 
or the dam thereof for value unless such owner having a claim for the servioe
of such stallion or jackass shall file with the clerk of the city, village or town 
where the owner of the mare served resides a statement showing that such
service has been rendered and the amount due therefor. 
SEC. 8848. Every ship, boat or vessel used in navigat­
ing the waters of this state shall be liable for and the claims or demands here­
inafter mentioned shall constitute a lien on such ship, boat or vessel, which
shall take precedence of all other claims or liens thereon: 
1. For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent or consignee thereof
on account of supplies furnished for the use of such ship, boat or vessel, or on
account of work done or services rendered on board of such ship, boat or ves- 
sel, or on account of labor done or materials furnished by mechanics, trades­
men or others in and for building, repairing, fitting out, furnishing or equip­
ping such ship, boat or vessel, or on account of any indebtedness for insurance
effected upon such ship, boat or vessel, the engines, machinery, sails, rigging,
tackle, apparel or furniture thereof, against any fire or marine risk. 
2. For all sums due for wharfage, towage or anchorage of such ship, boat
or vessel within this state. . 
3. For all demands or damages accruing from the non-performance or mal­
performance of any contract of affreightment or any contract touching the
transportation of persons or property entered into by the master, agent,
owner or consignee of the ship, boat or vessel on whioh such contract is to be
performed; and 
4. For all damages arising from injuries done to persons or property by such
ship, boat or vessel; but no person employed as master, or otherwise, on board
of any such ship, boat or vessel to collect or receive freights or passage money
shall have any lien as provided in this chapter or be entitled to his action in
accordance with its provisions. Such lien may be enforced by proceedings in
admiralty or in the cases herein mentioned as prescribed in this chapter. 
SEC. 3349. The receiving of the
note or other evidence of indebtedness of the owner, master, agent or consignee
of such ship, boat or vessel for any such claim or demand shall not affect the
right of the party to his lien under this chapter unless expressly received in
payment therefor and so specified therein. 
SEC. 3350. The owner or owners of any
such ship, boat or vessel shall be personally liable for the payment of every
debt and for every demand and claim arising under the provisions of subdivis­
ions 1 and 2 of section 3348. Such liability shall not m any way impair or
affect the liability that may exist against the master, agent or consignee for
the same debt or demand. 
SEC. 3351. In all cases where the owner
of any ship, boat or vessel is personally liable for an v claim mentioned in see­
tion 3348, the claimant, his personal representatives .. or assigns may, in an ac­
tion against such owner for the recovery of such claim, have a writ of attach­
ment, by virtue of which all the right and title such owner had in such ship,
boat or vessel at the time such claim accrued or at any time thereafter may
be attached to secure the payment thereof. Before any snob attachment shall
issue in any such action the plaintiff or some one in his behalf shall make and
annex thereto an affidavit stating: 
1. That the defendant in such action is indebted to the plaintiff or has a
claim or demand against him in a sum named, over and above all legal set-off's. 
2. That such indebtedness is due for or accrued or arose out of or upon one
or more of the causes specified in the first section of this chapter, specifying it. 
3. The name of the ship, boat or vessel, if it have any name, and if not, then
a description of the same as near as may be. 
4. That the action in which such attachment is applied for was commenced
within twelve months after such debt, demand or claim accrued or becamo
payable, and no other or further affidavit shall be required for the purpose,
and except as otherwise provided in this chapter the proceedings upon such
attachment in an action in the circuit court shall be the same as provided in chapter 124, but no attachment shall be issued out of the circuit court in any
such action unless the amount claimed in such affidavit shall exceed the sum
of one hundred dollars. 
SEC. 3352. In case the plaintiff"s
claim arises out of or is founded upon any of the causes set forth in the first subdivision of section 3348 he shall not be required to give the undertaking re­
quired by section 9782 unless required so to do by an oraer of the court or judge;
and no such order shall be made unless the defendant or some one in his be­
half shall make an affidavit showing that he has a good and valid defense in
whole or in part to the claim or demand of the plaintiff, setting forth the
nature of the defense; and where the defense is only to a portion of the claim,
before any such order shall be made the defendant shall pay or tender to the
plaintiff that portion of the claim to which there is no defense; such payment
or tender shall not affect the jurisdiction of. the court or prevent a recovery
by the plaintiff of the same costs, disbursements and charges as he would have
been entitled to had not the amount of his claim been reduced by such pay­
ment. No such order shall be made except upon one day's notice to the plaint­ 
iff, accompanied by copies of the affidavits and other papers upon which it is
founded. 
SEC. 8853. Such writ of attachment,
when issued by the circuit court, shall command the officer to whom the same
is directed to attach and safely keep the ship, boat or vessel named or de­
scribed in the affidavit, her tackle, apparel and furniture, if to be found within
his county, to satisfy the plaintiff's demand, with costs and expenses. The
issuing of such writ of attachment shall not exclude the right to an attach­
ment against the other property of the defendant under the provisions of chapter 124. 
SEC. 8354. Justices of the peace within
their respective counties shall have jurisdiction of all oases arising under this  chapter where the claim shall not exceed two hundred dollars, and when the
owner of such ship, boat or vessel is personally liable therefor the claimant
may proceed by attachment against snob ship, boat or vessel in an action
a~inst such owner in a justice's court in the manner prescribed in chapter 158,
so far as the same can be made applicable thereto and not herein otherwise
provided. Before any such attachment shall be issued in a justice's court the
plain tiff or some one in his behalf must make and file with the justice an affi­
davit setting forth the same facts as are required in the affidavit mentioned
in section 3351, and no other or further affidavit shall be required for that
purpose.
SEC. 3355. The attach­
ment issued by any justice of the peace shall be returned as an ordinary sum­ 
mons, and may be in the following form:
-- county. 
THE ST.ATll: OF WISOONBIN, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
You are commanded to attach the (hero insert the name of the ship, boat or 
vessel, or, in case she has no name, a description thereof as near as may be),
together with her tackle, apparel and furniture, to satisfy the sum of --, with
interest and cost of suit, in whosesoever hands or possession the same may be
found in your county, and so provide that the same so attached may be sub­
ject to further proceedings thereon, as the law requires, and also to summon 
-- --, if to be found, to be and appear before me, at. my office, in the -­ 
county of --, on the -- day of --, A. D. 18-, at -- o'clock in the 
--noon of that day, to answer to -- --, to his damage two hundred dol­
lars or under. 
Given under my hand at --, county of--, this -- day of-, A. D.
18-. J. P., Justice of the Peace. 
SEC. 3356. Whenever any ship, boat or vessel,
its tackle, apparel or furniture has been seized by virtue of any attachment
issued under the provisions of this chapter the defendant or any other person
in his behalf may file with the court from which the same issued, at any time
before a. final judgment, an undertaking with at least two sureties, to the effect
that the defendant will pay to the plaintiff on demand any judgment that may
be rendered in his favor, not exceeding double the amount claimed by the 
plaintiff in his affidavit. Such undertaking shall be of no effect unless accom­ 
panied bv the affidavit of the sureties, in wbich each surety shall state that he 
is worth "a certain sum, mentioned in such affidavit, over and above all his debts
and liabilities, in property within this state, not bv law exempt from execu­
tion, and which sum so sworn to by such sureties shall, in the aggregate, amount
to the sum specified in such undertaking; and such sureties shall, upon notice,
justify in like manner as upon bail on arrest. Upon filing such undertaking
the clerk of the court or justice of the peace shall make an order discharging
the property attached, and upon delivery to the officer having such ship, boat
or vessel in his custody of a certified copv of such order he shall deliver the
property attached to the person obtaining such order. 
SEC. 3357. In all actions under
this chapter, unless the defendant or some one in his behalf shall have given the
undertaking prescribed in the preceding section, the court or jury who shall
try the same or make an assessment of damages therein shall find whether or
not such debt or damazes are due for or accrued or arose out of or upon any
of the causes mentioned in section 3348, and specify such cause and the date
when the same became due or accrued in the verdict or finding. If such court
or jury shall find that such debt or damages are for any of the causes specified
in such section and that the defendant is liable to the plaintiff therefor then the
court shall render judgment accordingly, and that the amount of such debt or
damages so found, together with the costs, charges and disbursements, are a
lien upon such ship, boat or vessel to the extent of the interest of the defend­
ant therein at the time the same became due or accrued or at any time there­
after, and the execution issued thereon may, in addition to the directions con­
tained in other executions against the property of a defendant, direct that such
interest of the defendant in such ship, boat or vessel, her tackle, apparel and
furniture be sold to satisfy such judgment, and the same shall be Hold accord­
ingly; but if the court or jury shall find that the amount due the plaintiff for
such debt or damages is not for anv of the causes mentioned in said section or
if the defendant shall have given such undertaking the plaintiff shall only be
entitled to judgment as in other civil actions.
SEC. 3358.
In the following cases any tenant or lessee at will, or by sufferance, or for any
part of a. year, or for one or more years of anv real property, including a spe­ 
cific or undivided portion of a house or other dwelling, and the assigns, under­
tenants or legal representatives of such tenant or lessee may be removed there­
from in the manner prescribed in this chapter, except that nothing herein
contained shall affect the provisions of section 2197a: 
1. Wh~n snob person holds possession after the expiration of the term by 
lapse of time or after such tenancy at will or sufferance has been terminated 
by either pa~ty. in the manner provided in sections 2183 and 2184, and with­
out the pemnssron of the landlord. 
2. When such person holds over without such permission after any default
in the payment of rent pursuant to the agreement under which he holds and
three days' notice in writing, requiring in the alternative the payment of the
rent or the possession of the premises, has been served in behalf of the perso~
entitled to such rent on the person in possession of the same in manner pro­
vided in section 2636 for the service of a summons, and such notice may be
served by the lessor or any person in his behalf. 
3. When such person holds over without such permission, contrary to any
. other conditions or covenants of the agreement under which he holds, after 
three days' notice requiring the delivery of the possession of the premises has
been served, as above required, on the person holding such possession
SEC. 3359. In the fol­
lowing cases any person who holds possession of real property after demand
of the possession thereof has been made, and the assigns, tenants or represent­
atives of such person may be removed in like manner: 
1. When the property has been duly sold upon the foreclosure of a mort­
gage under the provisions of chapter 152, which was executed by such person
or any person under whom he claims by title subsequent to the date of the re­
cording of such mortgage, and the title under such foreclosure has been duly 
perfected.  
2. When such person occupies or holds the property under an agreement
with the owner to occupy and cultivate the same upon shares or for a share
of the crops and the time fixed in the agreement for such occupancy has ex­
pired. 
SEC. 8360. No person shall make
any entry into real property but in cases where entry is given by law, and in
such cases not with strong hand nor with a multitude of people, but only in a
peaceable manner. Any person who shall make such unlawful or forcible
entry and detain the same, or who, having peaceably entered upon anv ~rop­
erty, forcibly holds tbefossession thereof, may be removed therefrom and fined
in the manner provide in this chapter. 
SEC. 3361. The preceding section shall
not extend to any person who has or shall have continued in possession three
years after the termination of the time for which the premises were demised
or let to him or those under whom be claims, or to any person who continues
in possession three years, quietly and peaceably, by disseisin
SEC. 3362. The party complaining shall
proceed by action before a. justice of the county, or if the premises be within a.
city, then before a justice of such city, and shall file a complaint in writing
signed by him, his agent or attorney, giving therein a description of the prem­
ises of which possession is claimed, stating the facts which authorize the re­
moval of the person in possession, naming him, and praying for his removal.
The justice shall thereupon issue a summons, directed to the sheriff or any con­
stable of the county, commanding him to summon the person azainst whom
such complaint shall have been made to appear before him on a day and place
in such summons named, which shall not be less than three nor more than ten 
days from the day of issuing the same. Such summons shall be in the form
usually issued by justices of the peace in civil actions and shall, in addition,
state that the complaint has been filed. 
SEC. 3363. Such summons shall be served
upon the person against whom the same is issued by delivering a copy thereof
to such person at least three days before the return day thereof; but in case
such person is either absent from or cannot be found in the county the sum­
mons may be served on such person by leaving a copy thereof at his last and
usual place of abode, at least six days before the return day thereof, with some
member of the family, or some person residing at such place, of suitable age
and discretion, to whom the contents thereof shall be explained by the officer.
The officer shall make a special return of the time and manner of serving such
summons. 
SEC. 3364. After the return of the sum­
mons served as above provided, and at the time and place named therein, if
the defendant appear he may answer the complaint; and all matters in.excuse,
justitication or avoidance of the allegations of the complaint must be answered
specially; and thereupon the justice shall proceed to hear and determine tho 
action unless he shall adjourn the trial as provided in the next section; but
either party may demand a trial by jury. The proceedings in such action
shall be the same as in other civil actions in a justice's court except as in this chapter otherwise specially provided. 
SEC. 3365. The justice may, in bis
discretion, adjourn any such trial, but not beyond six days after the return
day of the summons unless all the parties thereto agree to a longer adjourn­
ment; but in all cases brought against any person named in section 3358, if
the defendant, his agent or attorney shall make the oath required by section
3631, and give an undertaking, with one or more sureties, to be approved bv
the justice, to the effect that the defendant will pay to the plaintiff all rent
which may accrue to him during the pendenoy of such action upon the real
estate described in the complaint and all costs and damages which the plaint­
iff may recover against him in such action, the said justice shall adjourn said
cause for such reasonable time as may appear necessary, not exceeding ninety
days from the return day of the summons. 
SEC. 3366. If upon the trial of any 
such action the justice or jury shall find the defendant or any of several de­
fendants guilty of the allegations in the complaint the justice shall thereupon
enter judgment for the plaintiff to have restitution of the premises, and tax
the costs for the plaintiff, and when the action is brought under the provisions
of section 3360 shall impose a fine, not exceeding one bundred dollars, against
such defendant, as under all the circumstances lie may deem just. Such jus­
tice shall issue execution in favor of the plaintiff for such costs as in other
actions in tort, and also issue a writ of restitution. If any fine be imposed upon
a defendant the justice may commit the person against whom it is imposed to
the common jail of the county until such fine be paid or, in his discretion, di­
rect the amount thereof to be collected upon the execution issued in favor of.
the plaintiff in such action, or upon a separate execution, so issued for the col­
lection of such fine only, and in such case the officer having the execution shall
pay the amount of such fine, when collected, to the justice for the use of the
school fund. If the justice or jury shall find that the defendant is not guilty
as aforesaid such justice shall enter judgment for the defendant and tax the
costs against the plaintiff, and issue execution therefor. The justice shall tax,
as a part of the costs to the prevailing party, ten dollars attorney fees, when­
ever an attorney of a court of record has appeared in such action on behali
of such party. 
SEC. 3367. If the plaintiff shall recover in any ac­
tion brought under the provisions of this chapter, except when brought for the
non-payment of rent, he shall be entitled to recover treble <lamages, with costs 
of suit, against the person found guilty, in a separate action, for any injury he 
-shall have sustained by reason of any unlawful or forcible entry or detainer, 
-or for holding any unlawful possession of the premises by such defendant. 
SEC. 3368. If either party shall feel
aggrieved by the judgment rendered in such action he may ar peal within ten 
-days to the circuit court or other court having jurisdiction o such appeal as
in other cases tried before justices of the peace; but no such appeal by a. de­
fendant shall stay proceedings on such judgment unless the appellant shall,
within said ten days, execute and file with the justice his undertaking to the
plaintiff', with two or more sureties, to be approved by the justice, to the effect
that the appellant will pay all costs of such appeal which may be awarded
against him, and abide the order of the court therein, and pav all rent and
other damages justly accruing to the plaintiff during the pendency of suoh
appeal. Upon taking such appeal and filing such undertaking all further pro­
ceedings in the case shall be thereby stayed and the appellate court shall there­
after issue all needful writs and processes to oarry out any judgment which may 
be rendered thereon in such appellate court. 
SEC. 8368a. No proceeding by 
certiorari to such justice shall stay proceedings on a judgment rendered against
the defendant in such action unless the defendant shall, at the time of the serv­ 
ice of such writ, execute and file with the justice his undertaking to the plaint­
iff, with two or more sureties, to be approved by the justice, to the effect that
the defendant will pay all costs of such proceedings on certiorari which shall
be awarded against him, and abide the order of the court therein, and pay all
rent and other damages justly accruing to the plaintiff during the pendency
of such proceedings. Upon the issuance of such writ and filing of such under­
taking all further proceedings in the case shall be thereby stayed. 
SEC. 3369. If a writ of
restitution shall ham been issued previous to the taking of any appeal, by
which proceedings are stayed, the justice shall forthwith give the appellant a
certificate of the allowance of such appeal, and upon the service of such cer- 
tificate upon the officer having such writ the said officer shall forthwith cease-­ 
all further proceedings thereon; and if such writ shall not have been com­
pletely executed tho defendant shall remain in possession of the premises until 
the appeal shall be determined. 
SEC. 8370. In all cases of appeal from a judgment: 
in an action brought under this chapter a new trial shall be had in the appel­
late court, and the case shall be tried in the same manner as cases originally
brought there, and such oourt shall not dismiss or quash the proceedings for­ 
want of form only. 
SEC. 8871. When a final judgment
shall be rendered in .favor of the plaintiff in any such action, brought ~inst
a person for holding over after default in the payment of rent, either m jus­
tice's court or in the appellate court, ho may stay all proceedings on such
judgment by paying all rent due at the date of the judgment and the costs of
the action or by filing with the justice, or after judgment in the appellate
court, with the clerk, bis undertaking to the plaintiff, with snob sureties as­
such justice or clerk shall approve, to the effect that he will pay such rent
and costs within ten days; at the expiration of which time a. writ of restitu­
tion may issue unless he produce to t1ie justice or clerk satisfactory evidence­ 
of such payment. 
SEC. 3372. The verdict of the jury or the finding·
of the court in favor of the plaintiff in an action under the provisions of this chapter shall be substantially in the following form: 
At a court held at --, on the -- day of --, 18-, before -- --, a.
justice of the peace in and for the county of--, in an action between -­ 
--, plaintiff, and -- --, defendant, the jnr7 ( or if the action be tried with­
out a jury, the court) find that the facts alleged in the complaint are true and 
that the said -- --, defendant, is guilty thereof, a.nd the said -- --,.
plaintiff, ought to have restitution of the premises therein described without 
delay. 
· If the verdict or finding be for the defendant it shall be sufficient to find the·
defendant not guilty. 
SEC. 3373. A writ of restitution may
be substantially in the following form: 
STATE OF w IBOONSIN, } SS 
County of-. · 
TBB STATE o-. W ISOONsm, to the sheriff or any constable of the county afore­
said: 
Wherea..ci, -- --, plaintiff, of--, in an action for an unlawful or forci­
ble entry and detainer (or for an unlawful detainer, as the case may be), at a.
court held at--, in the county aforesaid, on the -- day of--, 18-, ~
fore -- --, a justice of the peace in and for the county aforesaid, by con­
sideration of the court recovered a judgment against -- --, of --, to 
have restitution of (here describe the premises as m the complaint):
Therefore, you are hereby commanded that, taking with you the force of 
the county, if necessary, you cause the said -- -- to be immediately re­
moved from the aforesaid premises and the said -- -- to have peaceable
restitution of the same. You are also hereby commanded that of the goods
and chattels of the said -- -- within said county you cause to be levied,
and the same disposed of according to law, to be paid to the said -- -­
the sum of--, being the costs taxed against the said -- --, for the said
-- --, at the court aforesaid, together with twenty-five cents for this writ,
and also the sum of -- dollars, adjudged as aforesaid, to be returned to the
undersigned, and thereof, together with this writ, make due return within
thirty days from the date hereof, according to law. 
Dated at--, this-- day of--, one thousand eight hundred and--.
-- --, Justice.
SEC. 3374. Any person may erect
and maintain a water mill and a dam to raise water for working it upon and
across any stream that is not navigable upon the terms and conditions and
subject to the regulations hereinafter expressed. 
SEC. 8375. No such dam shall 
be erected to the injury of any mill lawfully existing, either above or below
it on the same stream, nor to the injury of any mill-site on the same stream, on 
which a mill or mill-dam shall have been lawfully erected and used or is in the
process of erection, unless the right to maintain 'a mill on such last mentioned 
site shall have been lost or defeated by abandonment or otherwise, nor to the
injury of any such mill-site which has been occupied as such by the owner
thereof, if such owner, within a reasonable time after commencing such occu­
pation, completes and puts in operation a mill for the working of which the
water of such stream shall be applied; nor shall any mill or dam be placed on
the land of any person without such grant, conveyance or authority from the
owner as would be necessary by the common law if no provisions relating to
mills and mill-dams had been made by statute. 
SEC. 3376. The height to which water
may be raised and the length or period of time for which it may be kept up
in each year shall be liable to be restricted and regulated by the verdict of a 
jury as provided in this chapter. 
SEC. 3377. Any person whose land
is overflowed or otherwise injured by any such dam mav obtain compensation
therefor in a civil action as provided in this chapter against the owner thereof,
or the owner and occupant jointly, in the circuit court for the county where
the land or any part thereof lies, but in no other manner; but no compensa­
tion for any damages sustained more than three years before the commence­
ment of such action shall be recovered therein; except as otherwise prescribed
in this chapter the proceedings shall be in all respects as in other civil actions. 
SEC. 3378. The complaint in such action shall contain a
description of the land alleged to be flowed or injured and of the interest of 
the plaintiff therein, and such statement of the damages and demand for judg­
ment that the record of the case shall show with sufficient certainty the mat­
ter that shall have been heard and determined. 
SEC. ~379. The defendant may, in his answer, deny that the
plaintiff has any interest in the land alleged to be flowed or injured, or allege
that the defendant has a right to maintain his dam for an agreed price or with­
out any compensation or any other matter which may show that the plaintiff
cannot maintain his action or is not injured by such dam. 
SEC. 3380. If the defendant shall not appear
or no answer or demurrer be filed the court shall order a jury to be impaneled
to hear and determine the matters of the complaint. 
SEC. 8381. If upon the
trial of any issue of fact in such action or upon a default the jury shall find
that the plaintiff is entitled to recover any damages they shall assess the amount
of such damages sustained within three years next preceding the commence­
men t of such action and down to the time of rendering the verdict, or if the title of the plaintiff shall have accrued within such three years, then from the
date of the accruing of snch title; they shall also find what sum, if any, to be
paid annually to the plaintiff, would be a just and reasonable compensation for
the damages which will be thereafter occasioned bv the dam so long as it shall
be used in conformity with the verdict ; also what sum in gross would be a
just and reasonable compensation for all the damages to be thereafter occasioned 
by such use of the dam and for the right of maintaining and using the same
forever in the manner aforesaid; and if it be alleged in the complamt that the
dam is raised to an unreasonable height or that it ought not to be kept up and
closed during the whole year the jury shall also decide how much, if any, the
<lam shall be lowered and also whether it shall be left open any part of the
year, and if any, what part, and state such decision as a part of their verdict.
SEC. 3382. The jury, in estimating the dam­
ages to the land of the plaintiff, shall take into consideration any damage
occasioned to his land by the dam as well as the damage occasioned to the land
overflowed, and they shall also allow, by wav of set-off, the special benefit, if
any, occasioned by such dam to the plaintiff in relation to his said land. 
SEC. 3383. If the jury find for the plaintiff judgment shall
be entered in bis favor accordingly and for the costs and disbursements of the
action, irrespective of the amount of damages assessed, except as provided in
the next section, and execution shall issue thereon for the amount of damages
assessed, for the injury sustained to the time of the rendition of the verdict,
together with such costs; and such judgment shall be a lien on the mill and
mill-dam and their appurtenances and the land under and adjoining the same
and used therewith, from the time of the date of the filing of the notice of the 
pendenoy of such action; if the plaintiff shall discontinue his action, become
nonsuited, or the jury shall find for the defendant, judgment shall be entered
for the defendant for his oosts and disbursements of the action and execution 
shall issue therefor. 
SEC. 3384. In every snob ao­ 
tion the defendant may bring into court and there tender any sum that he
shall think proper to be paid to the plaintiff for the damages incurred up to
the time of such tender, and may also offer to pay any certain annual oompen­
sation for the damage that may be thereafter occasioned by the dam in ques­
tion; and if the plaintiff shall not accept the same, with his costs up to the
time, but shall proceed in the action, he shall be entitled to his costs only up
to the time of the tender, and the defendant shall be entitled to recover his
oosts afterwards unless the plaintiff shall recover greater damages or greater
annual compensation than was so offered.
SEC. 3385. If the plaintiff shall ac­ 
cept the amount so offered for past damages and the future annual compensa­
tion he shall have judgment accordingly and also for his costs up to that time,
and the judgment shall have the same effect as if it had been rendered upon
the verdict of a jury impaneled according to the provisions of this chapter; or
the plaintiff may accept either the sum tendered for past damages or the offer
for future annual compensation, and proceed to trial on the residue of the com­
plaint under the same liability for costs as before provided. 
SEC. 3386. If in any such action the jury shall de­
cide that the plaintiff is not entitled to any annual compensation for future
damages the Judgment therein shall be no bar to a new action for damages al­
leged to have arisen after the former verlict and for the compensation for dam­
ages that may be thereafter sustained. 
SEC. 3387. The plaintiff in
such action, at any time within three months after the verdict is rendered
therein, may elect to take the sum in gross so awarded by the jury for the
right to maintain and use the dam forever, instead of receiving the annual
compensation therefor; and if he shall make such election he shall, within the
said three months, cause the same to be entered on the record of the case in
the clerk's office; if the plaintiff shall so elect the defendant shall, within three
months after suoh election is entered of record, pay to the plaintiff or secure
to his satisfaction the sum due for the perpetual right to maintain the dam,
with interest from the date of the verdict; after the expiration of said three
months such defendant shall lose all benefit of the provisions contained in this chapter until the payment of said damages and interest. 
SEC. 3388. If the plaintiff shall not, within the
said three months, cause an entry of his election to be made upon the record,
as before provided, he and all persons claiming under him shall be entitled to
demand and receive from whoever shall be the owner or occupant of the mill
the annual compensation so established by the jury, so long as the dam shall be
kept up and maintained, unless the sum due m that behalf shall be increased
or diminished, in a new action, as hereinafter provided. 
SEC. 3389. The person who shall be 
entitled to receive the said annual compensation or gross damages shall have
a lien therefor, from the time of filing the notice of the pendenoy of the orig­
inal action, on the mill and mill-dam, with their appurtenances,· and the land
under and adjoining the same and used therewith; but such lien shall not ex­
tend to any sum due more than three years before the commencement of an
action therefor. Such person may maintain an action in the circuit court for
such annual compensation or gross damages against the person who shall own
or occupy the mill or dam when the action is brought, and may therein recover
t.he whole sum due and unpaid for three years then last past, whoever may
have owned or occupied the mi11 or dam during that time, with costs of the
action, irrespective of the amount recovered. 
SEC. 3390. The execution issued on such judgment, if not
otherwise satisfied, may, at any time within ninetv days after the judgment is
rendered, be levied on the premises so subject to the lien, and the same may be
sold, by virtue thereof, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy such
execution and all costs and charges thereon. 
SEC. 3391. The officer making such sale shall
make and subscribe, file and deliver duplicate certificates thereof in the form
prescribed upon the sale of real estate upon executions in other civil actions,
except that he shall insert therein that the time when such sale will become
absolute and the purchaser will be entitled to a conveyance thereof will be one
year from the date of such sale. 
SEC. 8392. Any person entitled to the premises sold
may redeem the same at any time within one year after such sale upon pal­
ing to the purchaser, his personal representatives or assigns, or to tlie sheriff
of the county, for his use, the sum paid therefor, with interest thereon at the
rate of twelve per cent. per annum. 
SEC. 8393. If the premises so
sold shall not be redeemed within said year the officer making the sale or the
then sheriff of the county shall complete such sale by executing a conveyance 
to the purchaser, his personal representatives or assignee; which oonvevance
shall be valid and effectual to convey all the right, titfe and interest of an -per­
sons having or claiming title to such premises at any time within the time
covered by such lien. 
SEC. 3394. When either party 
shall be dissatisfied with the annual compensation established by any verdict
of a jury under the provisions of this chapter a new action may be brought
for the increase or diminution of such annual compensation or for ascertain­
ing the gross amount of damages, and all the proceedings in such action shall
be conducted substantially in the manner before provided in the case of an
original action; but when any plaintiff shall have declined to accept the
amount of gross damages awarded him no jury sha ll again determine the
amount of gross damages until the expiration of ten years thereafter. 
SEC. 3395. Such new action may be maintained by and against
either of the parties to the original action or by or against any person law­
fully holding untler either of them res pee ti vely, as the case may require.
SEC. 3396. No such new action shall be
brought within one month after tbe payment of the then last year shall have 
fallen due; and either party may, within the said month, make an offer or tender to the other as provided in the next section. 
SEC. 3397. The owner of the mill
or dam may offer in writing to the owner of the land injured any increase of
the annual compensation as fixed by the last verdict, and if the owner of the
land does not agree to accept the same, but brines a new action to obtain an
increase thereof, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay costs to the adverse
party unless he shall obtain a verdict for a greater annual compensation than
was offered to him. 'The owner of the land injured may offer in writing to ·
the owner of the mill or dam to accept anv smaller sum than that last estab­
lished as the annual compensation, and if the owner of the mill or dam does
not agree to pay such reduced compensation, but brings a new action to obtain
a dimmution thereof, he shall not be entitledto costs, but shall/ay costs to
the adverse party unless the annual compensation shall be reduce by the ver­
dict to a. sum less than that which was offered him. 
SEC. 3398. Such offer may be made by or to the re- 
· spective tenants or occupants of the land and of the mill or dam in question in
like manner and with the like effect as if made by or to the respective owners,
except that no agreement 
SEC. 3399. If the offer so made
by either party is agreed to and accepted by the other it shall establish the
annual compensation to be thereafter paid m like manner as if it had been -
established by a. verdict and judgment in a new action; provided, that a mem­
orandum of such offer and acceptance and of the agreement thereupon be
made and signed by the respective owners of the mill or dam and of the land, 
. or by persons duly authorized bv them, and filed and recorded in the clerk's
office of the court in which the former judgment was rendered, with a. note of
reference on the record of the former judgment to the book where the agree.
men t is recorded. 
SEC. 8400. The verdict in any action
under this chapter may be set aside and a new trial ordered as in other oases,
and an appeal may be taken from any final judgment rendered therein in like
manner and with like effect as in other civil actions. 
SEC. 3401. No such action shall
abate by reason of the death of any party thereto, but the same mav be pros.
ecuted or defended by the surviving plaintiffs or defendants or by the execu­
tors or administrators of the deceased; and if any such action shall be abated
or otherwise defeated for any matter of form or failure to acquire jurisdiction
the plaintiff or any person claiming from, by or under him may bring a new
action for the same cause at any time within one year after such abatement
or other determination of such original action; and may in such new action 
recover such damages as shall have been suataiued during the three years be­ 
fore the commencement of such original action or at any time afterwards. 
SEC. 3402. The provisions of this chapter shall ex.
tend to all cases where compensation has not been made for damages sustained 
by reason of the erection or maintenance of any such mill-dam ; to all cases
where the owner or occupant of a mill or dam makes any material change, by
raising the dam or altering the machinerv or the manner of using the water,
so as to cause additional damage to theland of another, and to all cases of
new action brought for the purpose of increasing or diminishing the annual or
gross damages which may have been heretofore determined by a jury under
the provisions of law. 
SEC. 3403. Whenever two or more
persons shall own jointly, or as tenants in common or in severalty, either le­
gally or equitably, any mill-dam or booms or piers necessary to the enjoyment
of any mill to which they are appendages, in the absence of any written agree­
ment between the owners thereof providin~ for keeping in repair and main­
taining the same, such owners swill keep m repair and maintain the same
proportionately to their interests, or such portion thereof as belongs to them
respectively in severalty; and whenever in the opinion of any such owner any 
such mill-dam, boom or piers need repairs and such co-owner shall neglect or 
refuse, after five days' notice in writing, to commence such repairs and prose­
cute the same with reasonable diligence the party giving such notice may make
such repairs and recover of the party so neglecting or refusing to make the
same, in the manner hereinafter provided, uniess the owners upon whom such
notice is served shall, within five days after the service thereof, notify, in writ. 
ing, the owner giving such notice that they have abandoned such dam, pier or
boom and claim no further interest therein; in which case the owners receiv­ 
ing such notice of abandonment may take full possession of and make the nee­ 
essa.ry repairs to each dams, booms or piers and thereafter hold and enjoy the
same as their sole proP.erty. Such notices may be served in the same manner 
as a summons in a civil action in a court of record.
SEC. 34-04. When anv
such owner shall ne$:lect or refuse to make such repairs, after the giving of 
such notice, and shall not have given such notice of abandonment the owner
or owners givin~ such notice and offering to do their portion of such needed
repairs may apply to a justice of the peace of the county in which such dam,
boom or piers are situated, by complaint in writing, duly verified, setting forth
the interests of the ditferent owners in such dam, boom or piers and the notice
given any defaulting owners, and thereupon such justice shall issue a summons
m favor of such complainants, as plaintiffs, and against such other owners as
defendants, directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county, command.
ing him to summon such defendants and also six disinterested freeholders of
the county as a jury to meet at such dam, boom or piers on a day and hour
therein named, not less than three nor more than six days from the time of
the service of such summons upon the defendants, and make due return thereof 
to the justice who issued the same. 
SEC. 8405. At the time and rlace
mentioned in said summons said jurors shall appear and the justice shal also
be present, and in case any person summoned as juror shall not appear or
shall be interested or incompetent to act from any other cause, the justice
shall issue a special venire to the sheriff or a constable of the county, requir­
ing him to summon forthwith a sufficient number of disinterested freeholders
of the oounty to make up such jury. When a jury shall have appeared they
shall be sworn bv the justice faithfully to discharge their duties as such jurors, 
and thereupon they shall examine such dam, booms or riers and may hear
the parties and any witnesses offered by them, and shal determine what, if 
any, repairs are deemed necessary to be made, the time within which the same
shall be commenced and completed, and a fair estimate of the costs and ex­
penses of making such repairs and the proportions thereof to be made by each
of the parties named in such summons, all of which shall be reduced to writ­
ing and signed by the said jury and delivered to the justice. In case the jury
shall have determined that any repairs on such dams, booms or piers are nec­
essary and that any portion thereof ought to be made by the defendants the
justice shall render judgment against such defendants, requiring them to make
such repairs in the manner and within the time fixed by said jurv, and for the
costs of the action to be taxed as in other cases. If the jury shall have deter­
mined that no such repairs are· necessary judgment shall be rendered against
the plaintiff for the costs of the action to be so taxed; and in either case
execution shall issue thereon for such costs. 
SEC. 3406. If any party against whom
a judgment shall have been rendered requiring him to make repairs upon any
such dam, boom or pier shall neglect to make the same as required by such
jud~ment the other party may make such repairs and recover of the party so
neglecting the full amount of the cost and expense thereof as estimated by
the jury, and in addition thereto the sum of twenty-five per cent. per annum
upon the amount of such estimate and expense, to be computed from the time
when such repairs shall have been directed to be completed by the determina­
tion of such jury. 
SEC. 3407. Every person imprisoned or otherwise
restrained of bis liberty, except in the cases specified in the next section, may
prosecute a. writ of habeas corpus, as prescribed in this chapter, to obtain re­ 
lief from suoh imprisonment or restraint if it shall prove to be unlawful. 
SEC. 3408. No person shall be entitled to pros·
ecute such writ who shall have been committed or detained bv virtue of the
final judgment or order of any competent tribunal of civil or criminal jurisdic­
tion or by virtue of any execution issued upon such order or judgment; but no
order of commitment for any alleged coutempt or upon proceedings as for con­
tempt to enforce the rights or remedies of any party shall be deemed a judg­
ment or order within the meaning of this section; nor shall any attachment or 
other process issued upon any such order be deemed an execution within the
meaning of this section. 
SEC. 3409. Application for such writ shall be by petition,
signed either by the party for whose relief it is intended or by some person in
his behalf, and may be made to the supreme court, or to the circuit court of
the county, or to any justice or judge of the supreme, circuit or county court,
or any court oomrmssioner, being within the county where the prisoner is de­
tained.; or if there be no such officer within such county, or if he be absent, or 
fo-/ any cause be incapable of acting, or shall have refused to grant such writ,
tben to some officer having such authority, residing in an adjoining county;
but every such application, made by or on behalf of a person confined or sen­ 
tenced to imfrisonment in the state prison, must be made to the supreme court
or to one o the justices thereof and shall be made returnable only to that
court. 
SEC. 3410. Such petition must state in substance:
1. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for is imprisoned or 
restrained of his liberty, the officer or person by whom he is so confined or
restrained and the place where, naming both parties, if their names are known,
or describing them if they are not. 
2. That such person is not committed or detained by virtue of any process,
judgment, order or execution specified in section 3408. 
3. The cause or pretense of such confinement or restraint, according to the
best of the knowledge and belief of the party. 
4. If the confinement or restraint is by virtue of any warrant, order or pro­
cess a. copy thereof must be annexed; or it must be averred that, by reason of
such prisoner being removed or concealed before the application, a demand of
such copy could not be made or that such demand was made and the legal fees
therefor tendered to the officer or person having such prisoner in his custody,
and that such copy was refused. 
5. If the imprisonment be alleged to be illegal the petition must also state
in what the alleged illegality consists. 
6. It must be verified by the oath of the party making the application,
SEC. 3411. Whenever
application for any such writ shall be made to any officer not residing within 
tile county where the prisoner shall be detained he shall require proof, by oath
of the party appearing or by other sufficient evidence, that there is no officer
in such oounty authorized to grant the writ or if there be one that he is absent
or has refused to grant such writ, or for some cause, to be specifically set forth,
is incapable of actmg; and if such proof be not produced the application shall
be denied. 
SEC. 34:12. The court or officer em- .
powered to grant any such writ to whom such petition shall be presented shall
grant the same without delay unless it shall appear from the petition itself or
from the documents annexed that the party applying therefor is, by the pro­
visions of this chapter, prohibited from prosecutmg the same. 
SEC. 8413. Every snob ~rit issued under the pro­
visions of this chapter shall be substantially in the following form: 
In the name of the state of Wisconsin: To the sheriffbetc. (or A. B.):
You are hereby commanded to have the body of 0. ., by you imprisoned 
and detained, as it is said, together with the time and cause of such imprison­
ment and detention, by whatever name the said 0. D. shall be called or charged,
before E. F., judge of the circuit court (or county court or court commissioner,
as the case may be), at, etc., on, etc. (or immediately after the receipt of the
writ), to do and receive what shall then and there be considered concerning
the said 0. D. And have you then and there this writ. 
Witness, etc. ·
Every such writ may be made returnable forthwith or a.ta day certain, as 
the case may require; and when not issued by the circuit court or supreme
court shall be indorsed with a certificate that the same has been allowed, with
the date of such allowance, signed by the officer allowing the same. 
SEC. 34-14. Such writ shall not be disobeyed
for any defect in form. It shall be sufficient: 
1. If the person having the custody of the prisoner be designated, either by
his name of office, if he have any, or by his own name, or if both such names
be unknown or uncertain he may be described by an assumed appellation; 
and any one who may be served with the writ shall be deemed the person to
whom it is directed, although it may be directed to him by a. wrong name or
description or to any other person. 
2. If the person who is directed to be produced be designated by name, or
if his name be uncertain or unknown, he may be described in a.ny other way
so as to d~signate the person in tended. 
SEC. 3415. If any officer authorized by the provis­
ions of this chapter to grant writs of habeas corrus shall wilfully refuse to
grant such writ, when legally applied for, he shal be liable to the t1arty ag­
grieved in the sum of one thousand dollars, to be recovered in an action. 
SEC. 3416. Such writ can only be served by an
elector of some county within the state and shall be served as follows: 
1. By delivering the same to the person to whom it is directed.
2 .. If such person cannot be found, by being left at the jail or other place in 
which the prisoner may be confined, with any under officer or other person of
proper age having charge, for the time, of such prisoner. 
3. If the person on whom the writ ought to be served conceal himself or re­
fuse admittance to the party attempting to serve the same, by affixing the
same in some conspicuous place on the outside either of his dwelling-house or
other place where the party is confined. 
SEC. 3417. Every officer allowing
such writ directed to any person other than a sheriff, coroner, constable or
marshal may, in his discretion, require as a duty to be performed, in order to
render the service thereof effectual, that the charges of bringing up such pris­
oner shall be paid by the petitioner, and in such case he shall, in the allowance
of the writ, specify the amount of snch charges so to be paid, which shall not
exceed the fees allowed by law to sheriffs for similar services
SEC. 3418. The service of such writ shall
not be deemed complete until the party serving the same tenders to the per- 
- son in whose custody the prisoner may be, if such person be a sheriff, coroner,
constable, police officer of any city or marshal, the fees allowed by law for
bringing up such prisoner, nor unless, when required by such officer, he shall
also give him a bond in double the amount of the sum for which such prisoner
may be detained, if ho be detained for any specific sum of money, and if not,
then in the sum of one thousand dollars, conditioned that such person will pay
the charges of carrying back such prisoner if he shall be remanded and that
he w:ill not escape by the way, either going to or returning from the place
to which he is to be taken, and if such prisoner be not in the custody of any
sheriff, coroner, constable, police officer of any city or marshal, and the offi­
cer allowing such writ shall have required that the charges of bringing up such
prisoner shall be paid by the petitioner, then until such charges shall have been
tendered to the person in whose custody such prisoner may be, no fees or
charges need be paid or bond given when service is made as provided in the
third subdivision of the second preceding section. 
SEC. 3419. Whenever a complete service
of such writ shall have been made, as above provided, the sheriff, coroner, con­
stable, marshal or other person upon whom such writ shall be served, having
the custody of the prisoner, whether such writ be directed to him or not, shall
obey and return such writ according to the exigency thereof. If the writ be
returnable at a da v certain such return shall be made and such prisoner shall
be produced at the time and place specified therein; if it be returnable forth­
with and the place be within twenty miles of the place of service such return
·shall be made and suoh prisoner shall be produced within twenty-four hours,
and the like time shall be allowed for every additional twenty miles.
SEC. 3420. Such officer or person
upon whom any such writ shall have been served shall state in his return
plainly and unequivocally: 
1. Whether he have or have not the party in his custody or under his power
or restraint. 
2. If he have the party in his custody or power or under bis restraint the
authority and true cause of such imprisonment or restraint, setting forth the
same at large. 
3. If the party be detained by virtue of any writ, warrant or other written
authority a copy thereof shall be annexed to the return and the original shall
be produced and exhibited on the return of the writ to the officer before whom
the same is returnable. 
4. If the person upon whom such writ shall have been served shall have had
the party in his power or custodv or under his restraint at any time prior or _
subsequent to the date of the ,vrit, but have transferred such custody or re­
straint to another, the return shall state particularly to whom, at what time,
for what cause and by what authority such transfer took place. The return
must be signed by the person making the same, and except where such person
shall be a sworn public officer and shall make his return in his official capacity
it shall be verified by his oath. 
SEC. 34:21. The person or officer on
whom the habeas corpus shall have been served shall also bring the body of
the person in his custody, according to the command of such writ, except in
the case of the sickness of such person as hereinafter provided. 
SEC. 3422. If any officer or person upon
whom such writ shall have been duly served shall refuse or negTect to obey
the same by producing the party named in such writ and making a full and
explicit return thereto, within the time above required, and no sufficient ex­
cuse shall be shown for such refusal or neglect the court or officer before
whom such writ shall be made returnable shall, upon due proof of the service
thereof, forthwith issue an attachment against such person, directed to the
sheriff of any county, commanding him forthwith to apprehend such person
and to bring him immediately before such court or officer; and on such per- 
son being so brought he shall be committed to close custody in the jail of the
countv in which such officer shall be until he shall make return to such writ
and comply with any order that may be made by such officer in relation to
the person for whose relief such writ shall have been issued. 
SEC. 3423. If a sheriff of any county shall
have neglected to return such writ the attachment may be direoted to any cor­
oner or other person to be designated therein, who shall have full power to
execute the same; and such sheriff, upon being brought up, may be committed 
to the jail of any county other than his own.
SEC. 3424. The officer bv whom anv such attach­
ment may be issued may also, at the same time or afterwards, issue a precept 
to the same sheriff or other person to whom such attachment shall have been
directed, commanding him to bring, forthwith, before such officer, the party
for whose benefit such writ shall have been allowed, who shall thereafter re­
main in the custody of such sheriff or other person, until he shall be discharged,
bailed or remanded, as such officer shall direct, In the execution of such
attachment, precept or either of them, the sheriff or other person to whom
they shall be directed may call to his aid the power of the county as in other
oases. 
SEC. 3425. The party brought before
any court or officer on the return ot any such writ may deny any of the ma­
terial facts set forth in the return or allege any fact to show either that his
imprisonment or detention is unlawful or that he is entitled to his discharge,
which allegations and denials shall be verified by the oath of the party; and
such court or officer shall proceed in a summary way to examine into tlie facts
contained in the return and to hear the allegations and proofs of the parties in
support of such imprisonment or detention or against the same, whether the
same shall have been upon commitment for any criminal or supposed criminal
matter or not. 
SEC. 3426. If no legal cause be shown for
such imprisonment or restraint or for the continuance thereof the court or
judge shall make a final order discharging such party from the custody or re­
stramt under which he is held.
SEC. 8427. The court or judge must make a final
order to remand the prisoner if it shall appear that he is detained in custody
either: 
1. By virtue of process issued by any court or judge of the United States,
in a case where such court or judge has exclusive jurisdiction; or 
2. By virtue of the final judgment or order of any competent court of civil
or criminal jurisdiction or of any execution issued upon such judgment or 
3. For any contempt, speoiaily and plainly charged in the commitment by
some court, officer or body having authority to commit for the contempt so
charged ; and 
4. "I'hat the time during which such party may be legally detained has not
expired.
SEC. 3428. If it appear
, that the prisoner is in custody by virtue of civil process of any oourt legally 
constituted or issued by any officer in the course of judicial proceedings before
him authorized by law such prisoner can only be discharged in one of the fol­
lowin c, cases: 
1. Where the jurisdiction of such court or officer has been exceeded, either
as to matter, place, law or person. 
2. Where, although the original imprisonment was lawful, yet by some act,
omission or event which has taken place afterward the party has become en­ titled to be discharged. 
3. Where the process is defective in some matter of substance required by
law, rendering such process void. 
4. When the process, though in the proper form, has been issued in & case
not allowed by law. 
5. Where the person havin&" the custody of the prisoner under snob process
is not the person empowered oy law to detain him; or 
6. Where the process is not authorized by any judgment or order of any
court nor by any provision of law. 
But no such court or officer, on the return of any such writ, shall have power
to inquire into the legality or justice of any judgment, order or execution speci­
fied in the next preceding section. 
SEC. 3429. If it appear that the party has been 164Z'3,lly
committed for any criminal offense or if he appear, by the testimony offered
with the return upon the hearing thereof, to be guilty of such an otf ense, al­
though the commitment be irregular, the court or officer before whom snob
party shall be brought shall proceed to let such party to bail, if the case be
bailable and good bail be offered, or if not, shall forthwith remand such party. 
SEC. 3430. If the part.v be not entitled to his dis­
charge and be not bailed the officer shall remand him to the custody or place
him under the restraint from which he was taken, if the person under whose
custody or restraint he was be legally entitled thereto; if not so entitled, he
shall be committed by such officer to the custody of such court or officer or
person as by law is entitled thereto. 
SEC. 3431~ until judgment be given
upon the return the court or officer before whom such party sliall be brought
may either commit such party to the custody of the sheriff of the oounty .in
which such court or officer shall be or place him in such care or under such
custody as his age and other circumstances may require. 
SEC. 8432. When it appean from the return to
any such writ tha.t the party named therein is in custody on any process under
which any other person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment or re­
straint no order shall be made for his discharge until it shall appear that the
party so interested or his attorney, if he have one, if to be found within the
county, shall have had sufficient notice of the time and place at which such
writ shall have been made returnable. 
SEC. 3433. When it shall appear from
the return that such party is detained upon any criminal accusation such court
or officer shall make no order for the discharge of such party until sufficient
notice of the time and place at which such writ shall have been returned or
shall be made returnable shall be given to the district attorney of the county
in which such court or officer shall be, if to be found within the county. 
SEC. 3434. Whenever, from the sickness or infirmity of the person directed to 
be produced by any writ of habeas corpus, such person can not without danger
be brought before the court or officer before whom the writ is made return­
able the p_a.i:ty in whose custody he is may state that faot in his return to the
writ, verifying the same by his oath; and if such oourt or officer be satisfied 
of the truth of such allegation and the return be otherwise sufficient he shall 
proceed to decide upon such return and dispose of the matter. The prisoner,
m such case, may appear by attorney and plead to the return as if he were
present; and if it appear that the person detained is illegally imprisoned or
restrained of his liberty the court or officer shall make a final order com- 
manding those having such person in their custody to discharge him forthwith;
but if it appear that such person is legally detained or imprisoned and is not
entitled to be bailed such court or officer shall cease all further proceedings 
thereon. 
SEC. 3435. Obedience to any
final order discharging or directing the discharge of any person, made pursu­
ant to the provisions of this chapter. may be enforced. by the court or officer
making the same by attachment, in the same manner as herein provided for
a neglect to make a return to a writ of habeas corpus and with the like effect
in all respects; and the person guilty of such disobedience shall be liable to
the party aggrieved in the sum of one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars
damages, in addition to any special damages such party may have sustained,
to be recovered in an action. 
SEC. 3436. No sheriff or other officer shall be
liable to any civil action for obeying any final order discharging or directing
the discharge of any prisoner in his custody; and if any action shall be brought
against such officer for suffering any person committed to his custody to go at
large, pursuant to any such order, he may set forth the same in his answer in
bar of such action. 
SEC. 8437. No person who has been discharged by the final order of any court or
officer upon a writ of habeas corpus issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be again imprisoned, restrained or kept in custody for the same
cause; but it shall not be deemed the same cause: 
1. If be shall have been discharged from a commitment on a criminal charge
and be afterwards committed for the same offense by the legal order or pr~
oess of the court wherein he shall be bound by recognizance to appear or
in which he shall be informed against, indicted or convicted for the same of­ 
fense; or
2. If after a discharge for defect of proof or for any material defect in the 
commitment in any criminal case the prisoner be again arrested on snffl.oient
proof and committed by legal prooess for the same offense; or 
8. If in a civil action tlie party has been discharged for any illegality in
the jud~ment or process hereinbefore specified and 18 afterward imprisoned
by legal process for the same cause or action; or 
4. If in any civil action he shall have been discharged from commitment on
mesne process and shall be afterwards committed on execution in the same
cause or on mesne process in any other cause after such first action shall have
been discontinued. 
SEC. 8438. Whenever it shall appear by satisfactory
proof that any one is held in illegal continement or custody and that there is
good reason to believe that he will be carried out of the state or suffer some
irreparable injury before he can be relieved by the issuing of a habeas corpus,
any officer authorized to issue such writs may issue a warrant, under his hand
and seal, reciting the facts and directed to any sheriff, constable or other person,
commanding such officer or person to take such prisoner and forth with to
bring him before such officer, to be dealt with according to law.
SEC. 8439. When the proof mentioned in the last section shall also be sufficient to justify an arrest of the person having such
prisoner in bis custody, as for a criminal offense committed in the taking or
detaining of such prisoner, the warrant shall also contain an order for the
arrest of such person for such offense. 
SEC. 8440. Any officer or 'Person to whom
such warrant shall be directed shall execute the same by bringmg the prisoner
therein named and the person who detained him, if so commanded by the war­
rant, before the officer issuing the same; and thereupon the person detaining
such prisoner shall make return in like manner and the like proceedings shall
be had as if a writ of habeas corpus had been issued in the first instance. 
SEC. 3441. If the person
having such prisoner in his custody shall be brought before such officer as for
a criminal offense he shall be examined, committed, bailed or discharged by 
such officer in like manner as in other criminal cases of the like nature. 
SEC. 8442. Any officer or other person refusing
to deliver a copy of any order, warrant, process or other authority by which he
shall detain any person to any one who shall demand such copy and tender the
fees therefor shall be liable to the person so detained in the sum of two hundred
dollars damages, to be recovered in an action. 
SEC. 8443. If any person shall
knowingly recommit, imprison or restrain of bis liberty or cause to be recom­ 
mitted, imprisoned or restrained of his liberty for the same cause, except as
provided in section 3437, any person so discharged or shall knowingly assist or
aid therein, shall be liable to the party aggrieved in the sum of one thousand
two hundred and fifty dollars damages, to be recovered in an action, and shall
also be deeemed guilty of a misdemeanor. 
SEC. 3444. Any one hav­ 
fog in his custody or under bis power any person who, by the provisions of
this chapter, would be entitled to a writ of habeas corpus to inquire into the
cause of his detention, who shall, with the intent to elude the service ol any
such writ or to avoid the effect thereof, transfer any such prisoner to the cus­
tody or place him under the power or control of another, or conceal him, or
change the place of his confinement shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. 
SEC. 8445. Any one having in his
custody or under his power any person for whose relief a writ of habeas corpus
shall have been duly issued, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, who,
with intent to elude the service of such writ or to avoid the effect thereof,
shall transfer such prisoner to the custody or place him under. the power or
control of another, or conceal him, or change the place of his confinement
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. 
SEC. 3446. Every person who shall know·
inglv aid or assist in the violation of either of the last two preceding sections
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. 
SEC. 8447. Every person convicted of any offense under
either of the four last sections shall be punished by fine or imprisonment, or
both, in the discretion of the court in which he shall be convicted; but such
fine shall not exceed one thousand dollars nor such imprisonment six months. 
SEC. 3448. The rrovisions of
the common law, in regard to the writ of habeas corpus treated o in this chap­ 
ter, are abrogated, except so much and such parts thereof as may be necessary 
to carry into full effect the provisions herein contained; and the authority of 
courts and officers to award such writs or to proceed thereon by the common
law shall be exercised in conformity to the provisions of this chapter in all
cases therein provided for. 
SEC. 8449. 
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to restrain the power of
any court to issue a writ of habeas corpus, when necessary to bring before
them any prisoner for trial in any criminal case lawfully pending in the same
court, or to bring any prisoner to be examined as a witness in anv action or
proceeding, civil or criminal, pending in such court, when they shall think the
personal attendance and examination of the witness necessary for·the attain­
ment of justice. 
SEC. 3450. Whenever any writ of mandamus
shall be issued out of the supreme court or any circuit court of this state an·
thorized to issue the same the person, body or tribunal to whom the same shall 
be directed and delivered shall make return to the first writ of mandamus at a
time therein specified, to be fixed by the court, and for neglect so to do shall
be proceeded against as for a cou.empt, 
SEC. 34-51. Whenever a return shall be 
made to an.v such writ the person prosecuting the same may demur or answer
all or any of the material facts contained in the same return; and the like
proceedings shall be had thereon for the determination thereof as might have 
been had if the person prosecuting such writ had brought his action for a false
~~ro. 
SEC. 3452. Issues of fact in
any such proceeding instituted in the supreme court shall be tried in the circuit
court of the countv within which the material facts recited in the relation for
the mandamus shall be alleged to have taken place or in such other county as
the supreme court, for cause shown, shall, in Its discretion, order, and the cir­
cuit court before which such issue of fact is ordered to be tried may try the
same at a special or a general term and may summon a jury for that purpose and
prescribe the manner of summoning the same. And when such writ shall be
Issued by any circuit court any issue of fact therein may in like manner be
tried at a special or general term, and the court may summon a jury in like
manner for the trial thereof. In any proceedings by mandamus against any
board of canvassers in the supreme court to compel the execution ~nd delivery
of a certificate of election to any person claiming to have been elected to the
office of state senator or member of the. assembly, or member of the house of
represeritatives of the congress of the United States, or presidential elector, by
the qualified electors of this state, the court may, if it is deemed necessary to
promote the ends of justice, inquire into the facts of such election, irrespective
of the election returns, and determine who was in fact entitled to the cer- 
. tificate of election to such office by the greater number of legal votes cast, and 
the certificate issued in pursuance of such determination shall be taken as the
true and only lawful certificate of election to such office, and any other cer­
tificate of election to the same office issued by any board of canvassers shall be
null and void. Such issue of fact may be tried as hereinbefore provided or
according to such rules and regulations as the court may prescribe. 
SEC. 3453. In case a ver­
dict shall be found for the person suing out such writ or if judgment be given
for him upon demurrer or by default, he shall recover damages and costs in 
like manner as he might have done in such action for a false return as afore­
said; and a peremptory mandamus shall be granted to him without delay. 
SEC. 3454. A recovery of dam­ 
ages by virtue of this chapter against any party who shall have made a return 
to a writ of mandamus shall be a bar to any other action against the same
party for the making of such return. 
SEC. 3455. The supreme court, or any justice
thereof, or a circuit court sha11 have the same power to enlarge the time for
making a return and answering thereto as in personal actions. 
SEC. 34-56. Whenever a peremptory man­
damus shall be directed to any public officer, body or board, commanding
them to perform any public duty specially enjoined upon them by any provis­
ions of law, if it shall appear to the court that such officer or any member of
such body or board has, without just excuse, refused or neglected to perform
the duty so enjoined the court may impose a fine, to be paid to the state treas­
urer, not exceeding fl ve thousand dollars, upon every such officer or member
of such body or board, or sentence to imprisonment in any jail in this state,
for a term not exceeding five years, every such officer or member of such body
or board, or either of said penalties, in the discretion of the court. 
SEC. 3457. Writs of prohibition
shall only be issued out of the supreme court; and such writs shall be applied
for upon relation or affidavits filed in the same manner as for writs oi man­
damus; and if the cause shown shall appear to tho court to be sufficient a
writ shall be thereupon issued, which shall command the court and party to
whom it shall be directed to desist and refrain from any further proceedings
in the action or matter specified therein until a day therein named to be fixed
by the court and the further order of such court thereon; and then to show 
cause why they should not be absolutely restrained from any further proceed- 
ings in such action or matter. 
SEC. 3458. Snob writ shall be served upon the
court and party to whom it shall be directed in the same manner as a writ of
mandamus; and a return shall in like manner be made thereto by such court,
which may be enforced by attachment. 
SEC. 8459. If the party to
whom such writ of prohibition shall have been directed shall, by an instru­
ment in writing to be signed by him and annexed to such return, adopt the
same return and rely upon the matters therein contained as sufficient cause
why such court should not be restrained, as mentioned in the said writ, said
party shall thenceforth be deemed the defendant in such matter; and the per­ 
son prosecuting such writ may take issue or demur to the matters so relied
upon by such defendant; and the like proceedings shall be had for the trial of
issues of law or fact joined between the parties and for the rendering of judg­
ment thereupon as in personal actions. 
SEC. 3460. If the party to whom
such writ of prohibition shall be directed shall not adopt such return, as above
provided, the party prosecuting such writ shall bring on t~e argument of such
return, as upon a rule to show cause, and he may, by his own affidavit and
other proofs, controvert the matters set forth in such return.
SEC. ?-461. The court, after hearing the proofs and allega­
tions of the parties, shall render judgment either that a prohibition absolute,
restraining the said court and party from proceeding in such action or matter,
do issue, or a writ of consultation, authorizing the court and party to proceed
in the action or matter in question.
SEC. 3462. If the party to whom such
first writ of prohibition shall be directed shall adopt the return of the court
thereto, as above provided, and judgment shall be rendered for the party
prosecuting such writ, a prohibition absolute shall be issued; but if judgment
be g~ven against such party a writ of consultation shall be issued as above
provided. 
SEC. 8463. The remedies hereto­
fore obtainable by writs of scire facias and quo warranto and bv proceedings
by information in the nature of quo warranto may be obtained l:>y civil action,
and it shall not be necessary to sue out such writs in form; but this section
shall not prevent the use by the supreme court of writs and proceedings in the
forms hitherto used in such cases in such court. 
SEC. 3464. Actions of g ao warranto and scire
facias shall be tried at special as well as at general terms of the circuit court,
and the court shall have power to summon a jury for the purpose and prescribe
the manner of summoning the same. 
SEC. 3465. When an ao­ 
tion shall be brought by the attorney-general by virtue of this chapter, on the
· relation or information of a person having an interest in the question, the name 
of such person shall be joined with the state as plaintiff. 
SEC. 3466. An action may be brought
bv the attorney-general in the name of the state, upon his own information or 
upon the complaint of any private party, against the parties offending in the
following cases: 
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into or unlawfully hold or exercise 
any public office, civil or military, or any franchise within this state, or any
office in a corporation created by the authority of this state; or 
9. When any public officer, civil or military, shall have done or suffered an
act which, by the provisions of law. shall work a forfeiture of his office; or 
3. When any association or number of persons shall act, within this state,
as a. corporation without being duly incorporated . 
. Such action may be brought in the name of the state by a private person on
his own complaint when the attorney-general refuses to act or when the office
usurped pertains to a county, town, city, village or school district, 
SEC. 3467. Whenever such action shall
he brought against a person for usurping an office the attorney-general or
pcl'son complaining, in addition to the statement of the cause of action, mav
also set forth in the complaint the name of the person rightfully entitled to 
the office, with a statement of bis right thereto; and in such case, upon proof
by affi?avit that the <lefend3:nt has rc~eive<l fees 'Jr emoluments belonging to
the ollice and bv means of his usurpation thereof, an order may be granted by
a judge of the circuit court or by a justice of the supreme court, if the action be 
pending therein, for the arrest of such defendant and holding him to bail; and
thereupon he shall be arrested and held to bail in the manner and with the 
same effect and subject to the same rights and liabilities as in other civil ao­ 
tions when the defendant is subject to arrest. 
SEC. 3468. In all actions brought
to determine the right to any office it shall be necessary for the plaintiff or
relater in everv case where the defendant is in possession of the office in con­
troversy, under a certificate of election issued by the proper officer or board
of canvassers, to state in his complaint in what respect such certificate was
improperly or illegally issued; and in case it is claimed that the relator re­
ceived a majority of legal votes cast for the office at any legal eleotion to fill 
such office he shall also state in such complaint the actual number of leeal
votes cast for the :relator and for the defendant for such office respective~y,
and also the number of votes cast for the relator and for the defendant respect­
ively for such office, as determined by the· legal canvass of such election, and
shall also state the names of the persons whom such relator shall claim voted
illegally at such election for the defendant, which were canvassed, and in what
such illegality consists and the election district where such illegal votes were
cast; and the plaintiff and relator shall, upon the trial of any such action, be
confined and restricted to proof as to the illegality of such alleged illegal votes 
so specified and shall not be permitted to give evidence of any other illegal
votes than those so specified. 
SEC. 3469. In all such
actions brought to determine the right to an office in the circuit courts, if the
defendant shall demur to the complaint the issue raised by snob demurrer
shall have preference upon the calendar and be tried before the other issues
thereon; if such demurrer be sustained the plaintiff or relator shall amend his
complaint, if he desire. to amend, within twenty-four hours; and if it be over­
ruled the defendant shall serve bis answer to the complaint in the like time
unless, upon cause shown, further time therefor shall be granted to either partv
by the cour~. The issue as finally made shall stand for trial at the same term;
and no continuance of any such cause shall be granted upon the defendant's
application unless he shall show the absence of a witness or other testimony 
- and the facts which he expects to proYe by such witness or other testimony
and they shall be deemed material by the court. The plaintiff or relator may
traverse or offer counter evidence to the facts set forth in such application for 
a continuance. 
SEC. 8470. In every such case such judgment shall be ren­
dered upon the right of the defendant and also upon the right of the party so
alleged to be entitled, or only uron the right of the defendant, as justice shall
require. When the action sbal not be terminated durinz the term of the of­
fice in controversy it may notwithstanding be prosecuted to completion and
judgment rendered, which shall determine the right which any party had to
the office.
SEC. 3471. If the judg­ 
ment be rendered. upon the rights of the person so alleged to be entitled and 
the same be in favor of such person he shall be entitled, after taking the oath
of office and executing such official bond as mav be required by law, to take
upon himself the execution of the office; it shall be his duty immediately there­
after to demand of tho defendant in the action all the books and papers in his
custody or within his power belonging to the office from which lie shall have
been excluded. 
SEC. 3472. If the defendant shall refuse or
neglect to deliver over such books or papers pursuant to the demand he shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and the same proceedings shall be had and with
the same effect to compel the delivery of such books and papers as are provided
by law. 
SEC. 3473. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of
the person so alleged to be entitled in favor of such person he may recover
by action the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpa­
tion by the defendant of the office from which such defendant has been ex·
eluded.
SEC. 3474. When several persons claim to be en­ titled to the same office or franchise one action may be brought against all
such persons in order to try their respective rights to such office or franchise. 
SEC. 3475. When a defendant
against whom such action shall have been brought shall be adjudged guilty
of usurping or intruding into or unlawfully holdmg or .exercising any office,
franchise or privilege judgment shall be rendered tbat such defendant be ex­
cluded from such office, franchise or privilege and also that the plaintiff recover
costs against such defendant. The court may also, in its discretion, fine such
defendant a sum not exceeding two thousa.nd dollars, which fine, when col­
lected, shall be paid into. the treasury of the state. 
SEC. 3476. An action may ho brought
by the attorney-general in the name of the state for the purpose of vacating 
or annulling letters patent granted by this state in the following cases:
1. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent were ob­ 
tained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of material
fact, made by a person to whom the same were issued or made with his con­
sent or knowledge; 
2. When he shall have good reason to believe that such letters patent were
issued through mistake or in ignorance of a material fact; or 
3. When he shall have reason to believe that the patentee or those claiming
under him have done or committed an act in ,·iolation of the terms and con­
ditions on which the letters patent were granted or have by any other means
forfeited the interest acquired under the same. 
SEC. 3477. Every court of record and
every judge of such court at his chambers shall have power to punish by fine
and imprisonment, or either, any neglect or violation of duty or any miscon­
duct by which thearights or remedies of a party in an action or proceeding
depending or triable in such court or before a court commissioner for the same
county may be defeated, impaired, impeded or prejudiced in the following 
cases:
1. All attorneys, counselors, clerks, registers, sheriff's, coroners and all other 
persons in any manner duly elected or appointed to perform any judicial or
ministerial services for any misbehavior in such office or trust or for any wil­
ful neglect or violation of duty therein; for disobedience of an; process of such
court or of any lawful order thereof, or of any lawful order o a judge of such
court or of anv officer authorized to perform the duties of such judge. 
2. Parties to actions for putting in fictitious bail or sureties or for any de­
ceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of the court. 
8. Parties to actions, attorneys, counselors and all other persons for the non­
payment of any sum of money ordered by such court to be paid in cases where 
by law executions cannot be awarded for the collection of such sum: and for
any other disobedience to any lawful order, judgment or process of such court. 
. And the powers of such court to :punish, as in this cha:pter provided, for non­
payment of money may be exercised· by the judge or Judges thereof in vaca­
tion. 
4. Alllersons for assuming to be officers, attorneys or counselors of any
court an acting as such without authority; for rescuing any property or per­
son which shall be in the custody of any officer, by virtue of process issued
from such court or judge or judges thereof in vacation; for unlawfully detain­
ing any witness or party to an action while going to, remaining at or return­
ing from the court where such action shall be noticed for trial ; and for any
other unlawful interference with the process or proceedings in any action. 
5. All persons summoned as witnesses or garnishees for refusing or neglect­
ing to obey such summons or to attend or to be sworn, or to answer as such
witnesses or garnishees. 
6. Persons summoned as [nrors in any court for improperly conversing with
any party to an action to be tried at such court or with any person in re1ation
to the merits of such action; for receiving communications from any such party
or from any other person in relation to the merits of such action without im-
mediately disclosing the same to the court. , 
7. All inferior magistrates, officers and tribunals for disobedience of any law­
ful order or process of a superior court or for proceeding in any action or pro­
ceeding contrary to law after such action or proceeding sliall have been removed 
from their jurisdiction; and 
8. All other cases where attachments and proceedings as for contempts
have been usually adopted and practiced in oourts of record to enforce the
civil remedies of any party or to protect the rights of any such party. 
SEC. 3478. When any such misconduct shall
be committed in the immediate view and presence of the court it may be pun­ 
ished summarily bv fine or imprisonment, or both, as hereinafter provided.
For that purpose an order must be made by the court stating the facts which
constituted the offense and bring the case within the provisions of this see- 
tion, and particularly and specifically prescribe the punishment to be inflicted
therefor. 
SEC. 34:79. When any order of the court
or a judge shall have been made requiring the payment of costs or any other
sum of money and proof by affidavit shall be made of the persona.I demand of
such sum of money and of a refusal to pay it the court or judge may issue a 
warrant to commit the person so disobeying te prison until such sum and the
costs and expenses of the proceedings shall be paid. 
SEC. 84:80. In a case specified
in either of the two last sections the court may, in its discretion, and in all 
other cases the court shall, upon being satisfied by affidavit of the commission
of the misconduct, either make an order requiring the accused party to show
cause at some reasonable time to be therein specified why he should not be
punished for the alleged misconduct or shall issue an attachment to arrest such
party and to bring him before such court to answer for such misconduct.
Such order to show cause may be made or attachment may be issued by any
judge in vacation, but must be made returnable to the court. 
SEC. 3481. Such an order to show
cause can only be made in an action or special proceeding in the same court,
but it may be made either before or after the judgment in the action or the
final order in the special proceedinrr, and is eq ui \'a1.:;11t to a notice of motion·
and the subsequent proceedings thereon shall be taken in the action or speciai 
proceedings as upon a motion made therein. When an attachment shall be 
issued it shall be deemed an original special proceeding against the accused in
behalf of the state upon the relation of the complainant. 
SEC. 8482. When an attachment shall be
issued according to the provisions of this chapter the court or judge issuing
the same may, in its or bis discretion, direct by indorsement thereon the sum
in which the defendant may give an undertaking for his appearance to answer. 
SEC. 3488. Upon arresting any person
upon an attachment to answer for any alleged misconduct the officer shall keep
such person in his actual custody and bring him personally before the court to
which the same is returnable, and keep him in his custody until such court shall
have made some order in the premises unless such defendant entitles himself to
be discharged as prescribed in the next section. But when, from sickness or 
any other cause, the defendant is unable to attend court that fact shall be a 
sufficient excuse for not bringing him before the oourt. The officer need not
!n any case confine any person so arrested in any prison or otherwise restrain
him of his liberty, except so far as shall be necessary to secure his personal
attendance. 
SEC. 3484. Such defendant shall be discharged from arrest
npon such attachment, when there is an indorsement thereon as prescribed in 
the last section but one preceding, upon executing and delivering to the otiioer
making the same at any time before the return of the writ an uncfertaking, with
two sufficient sureties, in the sum indorsed upon such attachment, to the effect
that the defendant will appear on the return of such attachment and abide the
order and judgment of the court thereupon. 
SEC. 3485. If the party charged with misconduct be 
in the custody of any officer by virtue of an execution against his bodv or bv 
virtue of any process for any other contempt or misconduct, instead of issuing
an attachment the court or judge may award a writ of habeas corpus to bring
the defendant before the court to answer for such misconduct; and upon the
delivery of such writ to the officer having the custody of the defendant he shall
bring him, on the return day of such writ, before the oourt to which the same
is returnable, and detain him at the place where the court is sitting until the
further order of the court. 
SEC. 3486. Upon the return day of an attachment or of such
writ of habeas corpus the officer executing the same shall tile the same and
the undertaking, if any, taken by him of the defendant, together with a writ­
ten return stating the manner in which he has executed such attachment or
writ. 
SEC. 3487. The officer to whom any such attach­
ment shall be delivered shall return the same by the return day specified
therein; and in case of default an attachment may be issued agamst him of
course, tlpon being allowed by the court or judge, upon proof of such default.
The officer to whom such last-mentioned attachment shall be delivered shall
execute the same by arresting and keeping the defendant in his custody, brin~­
ing him personally before t1ie court and detaining him in such custody until
the further order of the court without admitting him to bail. 
SEC. 3488. When any
defendant shall have been brought into court by virtue of an attachment, or 
on such writ of habeas corpus, or shall have appeared upon the return of an 
attachment the court shall, unless he admits the offense charged, cause interrog­
atories to be filed specifying the facts and circumstances alle~ed against the
defendant and requiring his answers thereto; to which the defendant shall
make written answers on oath within such reasonable time as the court shall
allow; and the court may receive any affidavits or other proofs, contradictory
of the answers of the defendant or in confirmation thereof, and upon the
original affidavits, such answers and such subsequent proof shall determine
whether the defendant has been guilty of the misconduct alleged. 
SEC. SEOTioN 3489. If, upon the hearing of an ordet
to show cause or in such proceedings in case of an attachment, the court shall
adjudge the defendant to have been guilty of the misconduct alleged and that
the misconduct was calculated to or actually did defeat, impede or prejudice
the rights or remedies of any partv in an action or proceeding pending in such
court, it shall proceed to impose a· fine or to imprison him, or both, as the nat­
ure of the case shall require. A warrant of commitment must be issued ao­ 
oorclingly. 
SEC. 3490. If an actual loss or injury has
been produced to any party by the misconduct alleged the court shall order a 
sufficient sum to be paid by the defendant to such party to indemnify him and
, to satisfy his costs and expenses, instead of imposing a fine upon such defend- · 
ant; and in such case the payment and acceptance of such sum shall be an ab­
solute bar to any action by such aggrieved party to recover damages for such
injury or loss. Where no such actual loss or injury has been produced the
fine shall not exceed two hundred and fifty dollars over and above the costs
and expenses of the proceedings. 
SEC. 3491. When the misconduct proved
consists of an omission to perform some act or dutv which is yet in the power
of the defendant to perform be shall be imprisoned only until be shall have
performed such act or duty and paid such fine as shall be imposed and the
costs and expenses of the proceedings. In such case the order and warrant of
commitment shall specify the act or duty to be performed and the amount of
the fine and expenses to be paid. 
SEC. 3492. In every other case, when no special provision is
otherwise made by law, the defendant may be imprisoned for a reasonable
time, not exceeding six months, and antil the fine, if any, and the expenses of
the proceedings are paid; and the duration of suoh imprisonment shall be ex­
pressed in the order and warrant of commitment.
SEC. 3403. Persons proceeded against under the provis­
ions of this chapter shall also be liable to an information or indictment for the
same misconduct, if it be an indictable offense; but the court before which a
conviction shall be had on such information or indictment shall take into con­
sideration the punishment before inflicted, in forming its sentence. 
SEC. 3494. If the defendant, against whom
an attachment shall have been issued and returned served, do not appear on
the return day thereof the court may either award another attachment or may
order the undertaking, taken on the arrest, to be prosecuted, or both. 
SEC. 3495. The order directing
the undertaking to be prosecuted may direct any action to be brought thereon
in the name of any party aggrieved; and such party may thereupon maintain
an action in bis own name and recover damages to the extent of the loss or
injury sustained by him by reason of the misconduct for which the attachment
was issued and his costs and expenses in prosecuting such attachment, not ex­
ceeding the sum specified in such undertaking. 
SEC. 3496. If there be no party aggrieved by the
misconduct for which the attachment was issned the court, in case the defend­
ant shall fail to appear according to the conditions of the undertaking taken
on the arrest, shall order the same to be prosecuted by the attorney-general or 
by the district attorney for the county in which the undertaking was taken,
in the name of the state, and in such action the state shall be entitled to re­
cover the en tire sum specified in such undertaking. From the money collected
in such action the court shall order such sum to be paid to the party prosecut­
ing the attachment as it shall think proper to satisfy the oosts and expenses
incurred by him and to compensate him for any injury he may have sustained
by the misconduct for which such attachment was issued, and the residue shall
be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the school fund. 
SEC. 3497. After the return of
an execution, issued upon any judgment obtained upon such undertaking un­
satisfied in whole or in part an action to recover the amount of such judgment
so remaining unsatisfied may be maintained by the plaintiff who recovered
such judgment against the officer taking such undertaking, when it appears
that at the time it was given the sureties were insufficient and the officer tak­
ing the same had reasonable grounds to doubt their sufficiency. If the state
was the plaintiff in the action on the undertaking the action against the officer
must be prosecuted by the attorney-general or district attorney in the name
of the state, and the same disposition of the moneys collected in such action
against such officer shall be' made as directed in the preceding sections. 
SEC. 3498.
Whenever any infant or person incompetent to manage his affairs by reason of 
insanity, idiocy, unsoundness of mind or habitual drunkenness shall be seized
or possessed of any lands or interest therein by way of mortgage or in trust
only for others the circuit court of the proper county may, upon the petition
of the guardian of such infant or incompetent person or of anv person in any
way interested in such real estate, make an order authorizing or compelling
such infant or incompetent person to convey and assure such lands or inter­
est therein to any person entitled thereto, in such manner as the court shall 
direct. 
SEC. 3499. The circuit court
shall have power to authorize or compel the specific performance of any-bar­
gain, contract or agreement made by any party who may die before the per­
formance thereof, or by any person incompetent to manage his affairs by reason
of insanity, idiocy, unsoundness of mind or habitual drunkenness, while he was
capable of conducting his affairs, by any infant heir or devisee or other per­
son, or by such incompetent person or his guardian, on the petition of the
executors or administrators of such deceased person, the guardian of such in­
competent person or of any other person interested in such bargain, contract
or agreement. 
SEC. 3500. No order
authorizing or directing any such conveyance or assurance or the performance
of any such bargain, contract or agreement shall be made until after hearing 
the parties and being satisfied that such conveyance or assurance ought to be
made or such bargam, contract or agreement ought to be performed. The
court may, by such order, direct the guardian of such infant or incompetent
person, or a special guardian appointed in such proceeding, to execute any con­
veyance or to do any other act which is necessary to carry such order or judg­
ment into effect. Every conveyance or assurance made or other act done in 
pursuance of any order made under the provisions of the preceding sections
shall be as effectual in the law as if made by such infant when of full age or
by such incompetent person when of sound memory and understanding. 
SEC. 3501. Whenever any person who is bound by a contract
in writing to convey any real estate or interest therein shall die before making
the conveyance the person entitled thereto, or if he be dead then any person
who would have been entitled to the estate under him as heir, devisee or
otherwise, in case the conyeyance had been made according to the terms of
the contract, or the executor or administrator of such deceased person, for the
benefit of the person so entitled, may maintain an action in the circuit court 
to enforce a specific performance of the contract by the heirs, devisees or the
executor or administrator of such deceased person who made the contract. If 
in such action it shall appear that the plaintiff is entitled to have a conveyance
of such real estate the court may require such executor or administrator to
convey the estate in like manner as the deceased rerson might or ought to
have done if living; and if the heirs or devisees o such deceased person or
any of them shall be within the state and made parties to such action the
court may require them, instead of the executor or administrator, to convey
the estate or may require them to join with the executor or administrator in
such conveyance; or the court may, by its judgment, pass the title to such real
estate to theplaintiff without any conveyance; and every conveyance or judg­
ment so made shall be effectual to pass the estate contracted for as fully as 1f 
the contracting party were still livmg and then executed the conveyance. 
SEC. 3502. A copy of such judg­
ment, directing such conveyance ?r passin~ the title to th.e plaintitf, dul:f cer­ 
tified by the clerk and recorded m the office of the register of deeds in the 
county where the lands lie, shall give the person entitled to such conveyance
a right to the possession ·of the lands contracted for and to hold the same ac­
cording to the terms of the intended conveyance, in like manner as if thev
had been conveyed in pursuance of such judgment. The recording of such
judgment shall not prever t the court from enforcing such judgment by any
proper proceedings therein. 
SEC. 3503. In either
of the following cases any real estate, or interest therein belonging to an in­ 
fant or to a person incompetent to manage his affairs by reason of insanitv,
idiocy, unsoundness of mind or habitual drunkenness may be sold, mortgaged 
or leased as hereinafter prescribed: 
1. When the personal property and the income of the real estate of such
infant or incompetent person are together insufficient for the payment of his
debts or for the maintenance and education of himself and family; 
2. When the interests of such infant or incompetent person require or will
be substantially promoted by such disposition on account of such real estate
or interest therein being exposed to waste or dilapidation, or being unpro­
ductive, or for other peculiar reasons or circumstances.
SEC. 3504. The application for such disposi­
tion must be made to the circuit or county court of the county in which such
real estate or some part thereof is situated or to the circuit judge in vacation, 
by petition of the general guardian of the infant or of such incompetent per­
son or by any relative or other person in behalf of either. Such petition must
be verified and must set forth the facts which would authorize the selling,
mortgaging or leasing of such real estate or some part thereof for one or more
of the reasons set forth in the preceding section. If a sale is sought on behalf
of one or more, out not all, of such infants in any case where an action for par­
tition would lie, the whole tract may be sold and the proceeds applied as
directed in section 3513; but the share of those who do not join in the applica­ 
tion shall be paid to their guardians. 
SEC. 3505. When such
application is made on behalf of an infant the court or circuit judge must ap­
pomt some suitable person special guardian of such infant in relation to the
proceeding on such application; such special guardian, and when the applica­
tion is made on behalf of an incompetent person the guardian of such mcom­
petent person, shall give a bond to such infant or incompetent person, by name,
as the case may be, to be filed in the county court or with the clerk of the cir­
cuit conrt, in such sum, with such sureties and in such form as the county or
circuit court or circuit judge shall direct, conditioned for the faithful perform­
ance of the trust reposed, for paying over, investing or accounting for all
moneys that shall be received by such guardian, according to the order of any
court having authority to give directions in the premises and for observance
of the directions of the court in relation to the said trust. In case of the
breach of the conditions of such bond it may be prosecuted for the benefit of
the party injured without any direction therefor. 
SEC. 3506. Upon the pres­
entation of such petition and the filing of such bond either such court or the
circuit judge may proceed in a summary manner to inquire into the merits of
such application or make an order referring it to some suitable person as ref­
eree to inquire into and report upon the matters contained in such petition,
whose duty it shall be to examine into the truth of the representations made,
to hear the parties interested in the property or otherwise interested in the
application and report thereupon with all convenient speed.
SEC. 8507. If, after an examination of
the matter by the court to which application is made, or by the circuit judge
without a reference, or on the coming in of the report of the referee, and on
examination of the matter, it shall satisfactorily appear that a disposition of 
any part of the real estate of such infant or incompetent person or any inter­
est therein is necessary and proper, for any of the causes men tioned in section
3503, such court or the circuit judge shall make a final order directing the
leasing, mortgaging or sale of such real estate or interest therein or of such
part thereof as the court or judge shall deem proper to be made by the special
guardian of such it.fant so appomted, or by the guardian of such mcompetent
person, as the case may be, m such manner and with such restrictions as shall 
be deemed expedient. 
SEC. 3508. No such lease, mortgage or sale
shall be made until an agreement therefor shall be entered into by such spe­
cial guardian of the infant, or guardian of such incompetent person, subject to
the approval of the proper court or the circuit ju<lge. Upon the confirma­
tion of such agreement by such court or judge he must execute a lease, mort­
gage or deed as directed by the order of con urmation, 
SEC. 3509. Whenever 
a final order shall have been made for the sale of any such real estate and it 
shall be made to appear to the court or judge that the interest of the infant
or incompetent person would be promoted by platting such real estate the
court or judge may, by" order, authorize the special guardian of such infant or
the guardian of such incompetent person, either alone or together with the
co-tenants, if any, or other owners, to make and acknowledge a plat of such
real estate in the manner prescribed in chapter 101. A plat made pursuant
to such order, certified and acknowledged in manner and form as prescribed
in said chapter and approved by the court, shall be as valid and effectual as if
made bv such infant when of full age or by such incompetent person when of
sound memory and understanding. After such plat shall have been duly made
and recorded such guardians may make separate sales of any lot or lots, ac­ 
cording to such plat, or of such infant's or incompetent person's interest therein
in the manner above prescribed.
SEC. 3510. No real estate
or interest therein shall be sold, mortgaged or leased under the provisions of this chapter contrary to the provisions of any will by which the same was devised
or of any conveyance by which the same was transferred to such- infant or in­
competent person.
SEC. 3511. Every deed, mortgage, lease or other
conveyance made in good faith by the guardian of an infant or incompetent
person, pursuant to any order or judgment of the county or circuit court or the
circuit Judge, made under the provisions of this chapter, shall be as valid and
effectual as if made by such infant when of full age or by suoh incompetent
person when of sound memory and understanding. 
SEC. 3512. No sale made as afore­
said of the real estate of any infant or incompetent person shall give to such
infant or incompetent person any other or greater interest or estate in the pro­
ceeds of such sale than he had in the estate so sold; but the said proceeds shall
be deemed real estate of the same nature as the property sold. 
SEC. 8513. The court or judge shall make an order for
the application and disposition of the proceeds of any such sale or mortgage, and
of the income derived from the investment thereof and of the rent accruing 
upon any such lease, and direct the investment of any portion thereof belong­
ing to such infant or incompetent person which is not needed for the payment
of debts or the immediate support of himself and family, so as to secure the
same for the benetit of such infant or incompetent. person, and sha1l direct a
return of such investment to be made on oath as soon as may be, and shall re-·
quire accounts to be rendered periodically by any guardian or other person who
may be intrusted with the disposition of such proceeds or the income thereof.
When such order is made by a circuit court or circuit judge a certified copy
thereof, of the return of the investments made in pursuance thereof and of the
accounts rendered by any gna rdian or other person shall be made by the clerk
of said court and filed in the county court of the proper county. If any such
guardian or other person shall fail or neglect to make a proper return or to
render such accounts as the order of the circuit court or judge thereof requires 
such cou ~·t or judge shall cause the proper county court to be informed of the
fact and such court shall thereupon have the same authority to call the guard­
ian or other person so in default to account, and the same procedure shall apply
as if the entire proceedings were had in the county court. 
SEC. 3514. If the real estate or interest therein of any in­ 
fant or anv incompetent person directed to be sold is 'subject to a right of
dower or an estate for life or for years in the whole or any part thereof and
the person having such right or estate shall, before such sale, consent in writ­
ing to accept a gross sum in lieu of such dower or other estate, to be fixed
according to the principles of law applicable to annuities, or to have a. pro­
portionate share of the proceeds of the sale invested and the interest thereof
paid to him until the termination of such right or estate, and file such consent
m the county court or with the clerk of the circuit court the final order for the
sale may, in the discretion of the court or circuit judge, direct that such right
or estate shall be sold, together with the estate or interest of the infant or in­
competent person. After such sale the court must ascertain the value of such
right or estate and direct the payment of such sum in gross, or the investment
of a proportionate share of the proceeds and the eayment of the interest
thereof to the person having such right or estate until the expiration thereof.
But no such gross sum shall be paid or investment made until an effectual re­
lease of such right er estate has been duly executed so as to entitle the same
to be delivered to the purchaser. If the owner of such right or estate for life
or years shall not so consent the same may nevertheless be sold, in the discre­
tion of the court, and the value or proceeds thereof, determined as herein before
provided, paid to him. 
SEC. 3515. Where the interest of the
infant or incompetent person in real estate consists of a right of dower or an·
estate for life or for years the court may, by its order, authorize the special 
guardian of such infant or the guardian of such incompetent person to join 
with the person holding the reversionary estate in a conveyance of the prop­ 
ert v to which such interest attaches, so as to release such right of dower or
fully convey the particular estate, on receiving from the proceeds of the sale
a gross sum in satisfaction of such right or estate or a proportionate share of
such proceeds to be invested, and the interest thereon paid to the person hav­
ing such right or estate until the termination thereof; in either case the amount
to be ascertained as prescribed in the last section. When a proportionate part
of such proceeds is received by tho guardian for investment the order of the
court must provide for the investment thereof until the determination of the
particular estate, and then for the payment thereof to the person entitled
thereto. 
SEC. 3516. From the time of such ap­
plication on behalf of an infant or of an incompetent person having no guard­ 
ian he shall be considered the ward of the court to which the application is
made, or if it is made to the circuit judge, of the circuit court, so far as it re­
lates to such property, its proceeds and income. 
SEC. 8517. The real estate
of an incompetent person shall not be leased for more than five years, or mort­
gaged or disposed of otherwise than is hereinbefore authorized and directed. 
SEC. 3518. In case any incompetent per­
son shall be restored to his right mind or become capable of conducting his
affairs his real and personal property, not lawfully disposed of, shall be restored
to him. 
SEC. 3519. In case of the
death of any incompetent person during such state of incapacity the power of
any guardian appointed under this chapter shall cease, and his real estate shall
descend to his heirs and his personal estate be distributed among his next of 
kin in the same manner as if he had been of sound mind and memory. 
SEC. 3519a. The proceedings for the disposi­
tion of the estates of infants as provided in the foregoing sections may be had
before the county court or county judge of the county in which the real es­
tate or any part thereof is situated as well as before the circuit court or cir-
cuit judge. 
SEC. 3520. Any resident of this state,
whether a minor or of full age, may, upon petition to the circuit court of the
county where he resides and upon filing a COP.Y of the notice hereinafter re­
quired, with proof of the publication thereof, 1f no sufficient cause be shown
to the contrary, have his name changed or established by order of said court.
Such order shall be entered at length upon the records of the court and a 
·copy thereof, duly certified, shall be filed in· the office of the register of deeds
of such county, who shall make an entry thereof in a book to be kept by such
register. 
SEC. 3521. The circuit court
may also, by order, establish any minor or adult person· as· the legal heir of
another person of full age, both resident of the state, upon filing a petition
setting forth their names and residence and the reasons for such action, signed
by the person desiring him to be so established, and also when such proposed
heir is over the age of fourteen years, by him, and the notice hereinafter re­
quired, with proof of the publication thereof. Such order shall be entered at
length upon the records of the court. 
SEC. 3522. Before making an application to
the court for changiug or establishing a name or establishing an heirship the
applicant must cause a notice thereof, stating therein the nature of the appli­
cation, the time and place when and where the same will be made, to be pub- 
. lished in a newspaper printed in the county where such application will be
made, or if there be none in such countv, then in the otlicial state paper for at
least six weeks successi vcly, once in each week. 
SEC. 3523. Every mortgage of real estate contain­
ing a power of sale, upon default being made in any condition thereof, may be
foreclosed by advertisement within twenty years after the maturing of such
mortgage or the debt secured thereby in the cases and in the manner herein­
after specified. 
SEC. 3524. To entitle any party to make such
foreclosure it shall be requisite: 
1. That some default in the condition of such mortgage shall have occurred,
by which power to sell became operative; 
2. That no action shall have been commenced to recover the debt then re­
maining secured by such mortgage or any part thereof; or if any action has
been commenced, that the same has been discontinued or that an execution
upon the judgment rendered therein has been returned unsatisfied in whole or
in part; and 
3. That the mortgage containing such power of sale has been duly recorded; 
and if it shall have been assigned, that all of the assignments thereof shal] have
been recorded. 
SEC. 3525. In cases of mortgages
given. to secure the payment of money by instalments each of the _instalments,
after the first, shall be taken and be deemed to be a separate and mdependent
mortgage for the purposes of this chapter, and such mortg~ for each of such
instalments may be foreclosed in the same manner and with like effect as if 
a separate mortgage were given for each of such subsequent instalments; and
a redemption of any such sale by the mortgagor shall have the like effect
as if the sale for such instalment had been made upon an independent prior 
mortgage. 
SEC. 3526. Notice that such mortgage will be
foreclosed by a sale of the mortgaged premises or some part of them shall be
given by publishing the same for six successive weeks, at least once in each
week, in a newspaper printed in the county where the premises intended to be 
sold or some part of them are situated, if there be one; and if no newspaper
be printed in said county such notice shall be published in a newspaper J?rinted
in an adjoining county, if there be one; and if no newspaper be printed m such
adjoining county, then such notice shall be published in a paper published at
the seat of government. A copy of the notice must be served upon the mort­
gagor, or, if he is dead at the time of first publication of the notice, upon his
executor or administrator, if any. It must also be served upon a. subsequent
grantee or mortgagee of the property whose conveyance was recorded at the
time of th~ first publication of such notice; upon the widow of the mortga~or,
and the widow of each subsequent grantee whose conveyance was so recorded,
then having right of dower or an estate in dower subordinate to the lien of the
mortgage, and upon any person then having a lien upon the property subse­
quent to the mortgage by virtue of a judgment or decree duly docketed and
constituting a specific or general lien upon the property. The notice herebv
required must be subscribed by the person authorized to execute the power of 
sale unless his name distinctly appears in the body of the notice, in which case
it may be subscribed by his attorney or agent. Notice may be served upon
the mortgagor, his wife, widow, executor or administrator, or a subsequent
gmntee or mortgagee of the property, or his wife or widow, by delivering a
copy thereof in the manner prescribed by law for making personal service of
summons in actions in courts of record, at least two weeks before the day of
sale. If the mortgagor is a foreign corporation, or being a natural person, he,
or bis wife, widow, executor or administrator or a subsequent grantee or mort­
gagee of the property whose conveyance is so recorded, is not a resident of or
within the state, then service may be made upon them in like manner without
the state at least four weeks prior to the <lay of sale. Any other person may
be served either in the same method or by depositing a copy of the notice in a 
postoflice, properly inclosed in a postpaid wrapper, directed to the person to 
be served, at his place of residence at least four weeks before the day of sale. 
SEC. 3527. Suoh notioe shall specify:
1. The names of the mortgagor and of the mortgagee, and of the assignee 
of the mortgage, if any;
2. The date of the mortgage and when recorded;
3. The amount claimed to be due thereon at the date of the notice; 
4:. A description of the mortgaged premises, conforming substantially with
that oon tained in the mortgage; and 
5. The time and place of sale.
SEC. 3528. The sale shall
be at public auction, between the hour of nine o'clock in the forenoon and the
setting of the sun, in the county in which the premises to be sold or some part·
of them are situated, and shall be made by the person appointed for that pur­
pose in the mortgage,. if any, ~r by the sheriff,lmder-sheriff or deputy-sheriff
of the county to the highest bidder. 
SEC. 3529. Such sale may be postponed from time
to time by inserting a notice of such postponement, as soon as practicable, in
the newspaper in which the original advertisement was published andcontinu­
ing such publication until the time to which the sale shall be postponed, at the
expense of the party requesting such postponement. 
SEC. 35:30. If the mortgaged
premises consist of distinct farms, tracts or lots they shall be sold separately,
and no more farms, tracts or lots shall be sold than shall be necessary to sat­
isfy the amount due on such mortgage at the date of the notice of sale, with
interest, and the costs and expenses allowed by law.
SEC. 3531. The mortgagee, his assigns or his ·
or their legal representatives may fairly and in good faith purchase the prem­ 
ises so advertised or any part thereof at such sale.
SEC. 3532. Whenever any lands shall be sold by
virtue of a power of sale contained in any mortgage it shall be the duty of
the officer or other person making the sale to giYe to the purchaser a. certifi­
cate in writing, signed by him, setting forth a description of each tract or
parcel of the premises sold, the sum paid therefor and the time when the pur­
chaser will be entitled to a deed for the same, unless they shall be redeemed 
as provided in this chapter; and such officer shall, within ten days from the
time of sale, file in the office where the mortgage is recorded a duplicate of
such oertifioate, signed by him; and such duplicate certificate or a copy cer­
tified by the register shall be taken and deemed evidence of the facts therein
contained. 
SEC. 8533. The mortgagor, his
heirs, executors, administrators or assigns whose lands shall be sold in con­
formity with the provisions of this chapter, within one year from and after
such sale, may redeem such lands or anv distinct parcel or tract thereof sepa­
rately sold by paying to the purchaser, liis executors, administrators or assigns
or to the then sheriff, under-sheriff or deputy-sheriff the sum of money which
was bid therefor together with interest at the rate provided to be paid on the
mortgage debt, which rate shall not exceed the minimum legal rate of interest,
from the time of such sale; and such payment being made, said sale and certifi­
cate shall be null and void as to the parcel or tracts of land so redeemed, and
the bail of said sheriff shall be responsible for the faithful rayment to the pur­ 
chaser aforesaid of all moneys received by him or any o his deputies afore­
said; and in every case the mortgagor may retain full possession of all premises
mortgaged by him until the title shall absolutely vest in the purchaser thereof
according to the provisions of this chapter. 
SEC. 3533a. If no redemption under the
provisions of section 3533 be made the senior creditor having a lien, legal or
eq_uitable, upon the mortgaged premises, subject to the mortgage, may redeem 
· within five days after the expiration of such year, and each subsequent cred­
itor, in succession, according to priority of lien, within five days after the time
allowed the prior lien-holder respectively, may redeem by paying the amount
provided in section 3533, and all liens prior to his own held by the person from
whom redemption is made; provided, that no creditor shall be entitled to re­
deem unless within such year he files notice of his intention to redeem in the
office or offices of register of deeds of the county or counties in which the 
mortgage is _of record. 
SEC. 3534. If such mortgaged premises so sold
shall not be redeemed as aforesaid the officer, or his successor m office or other
person who shall have sold the same, or his executor or administrator or some
person appointed by the circuit court for the purpose shall complete such sale
b_y executmg a deed of the premises so sold to the original purchaser, his as­ 
signee or personal representatives, or to any subsequent mortgagee who shall
have redeemed the mortgaged premises, as provided in section 3540.
SEC. 3535. If after sale of any real estate
made as herein prescribed thef'e shall remain in the hands of the officer or other
person making the sale any surplus money, a.fter satisfying the mortgage on
which such real estate was sold and all instalments thereof, and payment of 
the costs and expenses of such foreclosure and sale, the surplus shall be paid
over by such officer or other person, on demand, to the mortgagor, his legal
representatives or assigns. If any part of the moneys secured by the mort~~e
is not due and such surplus be more than enough to pay it the same shall oe
so paid, with interest, to the time of such payment. 
SEC. 3536. Any party desiring 
to perpetuate the evidence of any sale made in pursuance of the provisions ol
this chapter mav procure: 
1. An affidavit of the publication of the notice of sale and of any notice of
postponement, to be made by the printer of the newspaper in which the same
was inserted or by some persor in his employ knowing the facts; and 
2. An affidavit of the fact of any sale pursuant to such notice, to be made
by the person who acted as auctioneer at the sale, stating the time and place
at which the same took place, the sum bid and the name of the purchaser;
providing, that in case of the death or other disability of the person who acted
as auctioneer at such sale, before making such attidavit, the same may be made 
by any person having knowledge of the facts, who shall state in such affidavit
the fact of such death or other disability and that such affidavit is made for 
that reason. 
SEC. 3537. Such affidavit shall be recorded at
len~th by the register of deeds of the county in which the premises are situ­ 
ated in a book kept for the recording of mortgages; and such original aflida­ 
vits, the record thereof and certified copies of such record shall be presumptive
evidence of the facts therein contained.
SEC. 3538. A note referring to the
page and book where the evidence of any sale having been made under mort­
gage is recorded shall be made by the register recording such evidence in the
margin of the record of such mortgage, if such record be in his office.
SEC. 3539. A record of the affidavits
aforesaid and of the deed executed on the sale of the premises shall be suffi­
cient to pass the title thereto; and the said conveyance shall be an entire bar
of all claim or equity of redemption of the mortgagor, his heirs and representa­
tives and all persons claiming under him or them by virtue of any title subse­
quent to such mortgage; but no title accruing prior to the execution of suoh
mortgage shall be affected thereby. 
SEC. 3540. Any person to whom
a subsequent mortga~e may have been executed shall be entitled to the same
privilege of redemption of the mortgaged premises that the mortgagor might 
have had, or of satisfying the prior mortgage, and shall by such satisfaction
acquire all the benefits to which such prior mortgagee was or might have been
entitled. 
SEC. 8541. When the mortgaged
premises or anr part of them shall have been purchased at such sale by the
mortgagee, his legal representatives or his or their assigns, as hereinbefore
provided, the affidavits of the publication of the notice of sale and of the circum­
stances of such sale shall be evidence of the sale and of the foreclosure of the
equity of redemption as herein specified, without any conveyance being executed,
in the same manner and with the like effect as a conveyance executed by the
proper officer or person upon such sale to a third person. 
SEC. 354-2. When notice of any
sale by virtue of a mortgage shall be published in any other than the county
in which the premises are situated a copy of such notice shall be served in the
manner first provided in section 3526 at least four weeks before the time of
such sale on the person in possession of the mortgaged premises, in all cases
where the same are occupied, as well as upon the persons designated in said section, at least four weeks before the day of such sale. Proof of the service
of notice required hereby and of the service required to be made, otherwise
than by publication, by section 3526 may be made, certified and recorded in
the same manner and with the like effect as proof of the publication of a notice
of sale under a mortgage. 
SEC. 3548. The costs and expenses of fore­
closing any mortgage pursuant to this chapter shall be taxed by some officer
authorized to tax costs in a court of record, upon request of any party liable
to pay the same, and on notice to the other party, on his paying the expense
of such taxation. 
SEC. 3543a. The sheriff's certificate of sale, made pursuant to law, or a duly certi-
' tied copy thereof shall be prima faoie evidence that all the requirements of 
this chapter concerning the sale have been complied with and of such title in
the purchaser at such sale, his heirs or assigns, after the time for redeeming
from the sale has expired, as was vested in the mortgagor at the time of the
execution of the mortgas-e or at any time thereafter up to the time of the sale.
No such sale shall be held in valid or be set aside because of any defect in the
notice thereof or in the publication of the same, or in the proceedings of the
officer conducting the sale unless the action in which the validity of such no­
tice or sale be questioned be commenced or the defense alleging the in validity
thereof be interposed within five years after the time of making the sale; pro­
vided, that persons who are under disability when snob sale is made may com­
mence such action or interpose such defense at any time within five years after
the removal of such disability. 
SEC. 3544. All persons, exoept in­ 
fants and persons under guardianship, may, by an instrument in writing, at­
tested by one or more subscribing witnesses, submit to the decision of one or
more arbitrators anr controversy existing between them which might be the
subject of a civil action, except as herein otherwise provided; and may, in such
submission, agree that a judgment of any court of record, to be designated in
such instrument, shall be rendered upon the award made pursuant to such sub­ 
mission. 
SEC. 3545. No such submission shall be made re­
-ipecting the claim of any person to any estate in fee or for life to real estate;
but any claim to an interest for a. term of years or for one year or less in real
estate, and controversies respecting the partition of lands between joint ten­
ants or tenants in common, or concc rning the boundaries of lands, or concern­ 
ing the admeasurement of dower may be so submitted to arbitration. 
SEC. 3546. The arbitrators
thus selected shall appoint a time and place for the hearing and may adjourn
the same from time to time as may be necessary; and on the application of 
either party and for good cause they may postpone such hearing to a time not
beyond the day fixed in such submission for rendering their award.
SEC. 35!7. Before proceeding to hear any
testimony the arbitrators shall be sworn faithfully and fairly to hear and ex­
amine the matters in controversy and to make a just award, according to the
best of their understanding; which oath may be administered by any person
authorized to administer oaths, and the oath to witnesses and other persons
examined before them may be administered by them.
SEC. 8548. Witnesses may be compelled 
to appear before such arbitrators by subpcena, to be issued by any justice of 
the peace, in the same manner and with like effect and subject to the same
penalties for disobedience as in cases of trials before justices of the peace. 
SEC. 3549. All the arbitrators must.
meet together and hear all the proofs and allegations of the parties; but an
award by a majority of them shall be valid unless the concurrence of all the 
arbitrators be expressly required in the submission. 
SEC. 3550. To entitle any award to be enforced
according to the provisions of this chapter it must be in writing, subscribed
by the arbitrators making the same, and attested by a subscribing witness.
SEC. 3551. Upon such submission being
proved by the affidavit of a subscribing witness thereto and upon the award 
made in pursuance thereof being proved in like manner or by the affidavit of
the arbitrators, within one year after the making of the same, the court des­
ignated in such submission shall, by order, confirm such award unless the same
be vacated or modified or a decision thereon be postponed as herein provided. 
SEC. 3559. Any party to such sub­
mission may move the court designated therein to vacate the same upon either 
of the following grounds: '
1. That sucli award was procured by corruption, fraud or other undue 
means;
2. That there was evident partiality or corruption in the arbitrators or either 
of them;
3. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct in refusing to postpone 
the hearing upon sufficient cause shown or in refusing to hear any evidence,
pertinent and material to the controversy, or for any other misbehavior of
such arbitrators by which the rights of any party shall have been prejudiced; 
4. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers or that they so imperfectly
executed them that a mutual, final and definite award on the subjeot-matter
submitted was not made. 
SEC. 8553. Any party to such sub­
mission may also move the court designated therein to modify or correct such
award in the followin~ cases: 
1. When there is evident miscalculation of figures or an evident mistake in
the description of an1. person, thing or property referred to in such award; 
2. Where the arbitrators shall have awarded upon some matter not sub­
mitted to them not affecting the merits of the decision upon the matters sub­
mitted; 
8. Where the award shall be imperfect in some matter of form not affect­
ing the merits of the controversy, and where, if it had been a verdict, such
defect could have been amended or disregarded by the court according to the
provisions of law. 
SEC. 3554. Every application to
vacate or modify an award shall be made to the court designated in the sub­
mission, at the next term after. the publicati_on o~ such a war~, u p<?n the same 
notice to the adverse party as m other motions, if there be tune for that pur­
pose; and if there be not time, such court or any judge thereof may, upon
good cause shown, order a stay of proceedings on such award, upon.such terms 
as shall appear just, until the term of the court next after such first term, at
which term such application shall be made or shall be deemed waived. 
SEC. 3555. On such application the court
may vacate such award in any of the cases hereinbefore specified, and if the
time within which such award shall have been required to be made by the sub­
mission has not expired may, in their discretion, direct a rehearing by the ar­
bitrators; and, in the cases herein specified, the court may modify and correct
such award so as to effect the intent thereof and to promote justice between
the parties. 
SEC. 3556. Upon such award being affirmed or
modified the court shall render judgment in favor of the party to whom any
sum of money or damages shall have been awarded that he recover the same;
and if the award shall liave ordered any act to be done by either party judg­
ment shall be entered that such act be done according to such order. The
costs of the proceedings shall be taxed as in actions, and if no provisions for
the fees and expenses of the arbitrators shall have been made int.he submission
or award the court shall make the same allowance as is provided by law for
referees; but no costs shall be taxed for any other services or expenses prior
to such application. 
SEC. 3557. The judgment of
the court on such award shall be entered in the judgment book, at length, as
other judgments of said court, and the clerk of the court shall immediately 
after the entry of such judgment attach to the submission the award of the
arbitrators and a copy of the judgment of the court, and the same shall con­
stitute the judgment roll. 
SEC. 3558. Such judgment
roll shall be filed and judgment docketed as in other cases, shall have the same
force and effect in all respects, be subject to all the provisions of law in rela­ 
tion to judgments in actions and may, in like manner, be reviewed bv the su­
nreme court on appeal or writ of error; and execution shall issue thereuron 
.1gainst the property or person of any party against whom a recovery shal be
had in all respects as upon other judgments. 
SEC. 35.~,!l. When an appeal shall be taken from
or writ of error brought upon such judgment the original affidavits upon
which any application in relation to such award was founded and all other 
allidavits and papers relatin~ to such application shall be annexed to, form a
part of and be returned with the record of the judgment unless the court shall
order copies thereof to be returned; and the supreme court shall reverse,
modify, amend or affirm such jucltrmcnt according to justice. 
SEC. 3560. When by such judg­
ment any party shall be required to perform any act other than the payment
of money the court rendering such judgment shall enforce the same in the
manner provided for enforcing judgments of a similar nature in other cases. 
SEC. 3561. If, upon application made
pursuant to the foregoing provisions, the court shall vacate and set aside any
such award costs shall be awarded to the prevailing party, and judgment may
be rendered therefor and enforced by execution. 
SEC. 3562. Upon
any such order vacating an award the party a~grieved may appeal to the su­ 
preme court, on which appeal shall be returned the submission and award and
all affidavits and papers used on such application, unless the court shall order
copies thereof returned; and the court to which such appeal shall be taken
shall proceed to affirm or reverse such order as shall be just. 
SEC. 3563. If such order be reversed the
proceedings shall be remitted to the court from which they were removed, to
proceed thereon; or the supreme court may modify or affirm the award in the
same manner and with like effect as if application for that purpose had been
originally made to such court.
SEC. 3564:. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to impair or affect any action upon an award or upon any
bond or other engagement to abide by an award.
SEC. 3565. Whenever. any sub­
mission to arbitration shall be revoked by a party thereto, before the publica­
tion of an award, the partv so revoking shall be liable to an action by the
adverse party to recover ail the costs and expenses incurred and damages
which he may have sustained in preparing for such arbitration; but neither
party shall have power to revoke the powers of the arbitrators, after the cause
shall have been finally submitted to them, upon a. hearing of tho parties, for
their decision. 
SEC. 3566. If the submission so- revoked was con­
tained in the condition of any bond the obligee in such bond shall be entitled
to prosecute the same in the same manner as other bonds with conditions
other than for the payment of money and to assign such revocation as a breach
thereof; and for such breach he shall recover as damages the costs and ex­
penses incurred and the damages sustained by him in preparing for such
arbitration. 
SEC. 3567. No other sum, penalty, forfeiture
or damages shall be recovered for any revocation of a submission to arbitra
tion than such as are prescribed in the two last sections, notwithstanding any
stipulated damages, penalty or forfeiture contained in such submission or in
any other instrument or agreement collateral thereto . 
SEC. 3568. The jurisdiction of all justices 
of the peace shall be coextensive with the limits of the county in which they
are elected, and no other or greater, except when otherwise specially provided
by law.
SEC. 8569. Every justice of the peace shall keep
his office in the townfor which he may be elected, and not elsewhere, but he
may issue process at any place in the county.
SEC. 3570. No justice of the peace shall hold his office in
the same room with a practicing attorney unless such attorney shall be his
law partner, and in that case such partner shall not be permitted to appear or
practice as attorney in any case tried before such justice. No justice of the
peace shall hold a court in any room or room adjoining any room in which 
strong, spirituous, ardent or intoxicating liquors are sold, bartered or given
away, and every such justice violating this section shall forfeit twenty-five
dollars for each violation; but no judgment shall be held void in consequence
thereof.
SEC. 3571. Every justice of the peace
in any town may hold a court for the trial of all actions of which justices of
the peace have jurisdiction by law and hear, try and determine the same ao­ 
cording to law; and for that purpose, where no special provision is otherwise
made, snob court shall be vested with all the necessary powers which are pos­
sessed by courts of record; and all laws of a general nature are to apply to 
such justice's court so far as the same may be applicable. The place of trial
of any such action shall not be changed by anyJ'ustice nor by the parties to 
any action to any town or city, nor shall the tri thereof be held in any other
town or city except as is provided in sections 3616 and 8617. 
SEC. 3572. Every such justice of the peace shall have
jurisdiction over and cognizauce of the following actions and proceedings: 
1. Actions arising or growing out of contract, express or implied, wherein
the debt or balance due or damages claimed shall not exceed two hundred
dollars; 
2. Actions on a note, bill, bond or other instrument in writing given for the
payment of money or other valuable article, for any amount exceeding two
hundred dollars, which bas been reduced, bv credits or payments indorsed
thereon, to an amount not exceeding two hundred dollars; 
3. Actions on instalments as they shall become due, where payments are to
be made in instalments, on any such note, bill, bond or other instrument in
writing for the payment of money or other valuable article when the instal­
ment or instalments due shall not exceed two hundred dollars or when the 
same has been reduced, by credits or payments, indorsed as aforesaid, to an
amount not exceeding two hundred dollars; 
4. Actions founded on any account when the amount of the plaintiff's ac­
count, proven to the satisfaction of the justice, shall not exceed ti ve hundred
dollars and when the same shall be reduced to an amount not exceeding two
hundred dollars by credits given, or by the set-off or demand of the opposite 
party;
5. Actions on any surety bond taken by them, though the penalty or 
amount claimed exceeds two hundred dollars;
6. .Accions on any official bond whe.n the damages claimed shall not exceed 
two hundred dollars;
7. Actions for injuries to persons or to real or personal property wherein 
\he damages claimed shall not exceed two hundred dollars;
8. Actions to recover the possession of personal property, with damages for 
the unlawful taking or detention thereof, wherein the value of the property
claimed shall not exceed two hundred dollars; - 
9. Actions for forcible entry and detainer;
10. Actions for a penalty or forfeiture, not exceeding two hundred dollars, 
given by anv statute of this state;
11. To take and enter a judgment on the confession of a defendant when 
the amount confessed shall not exceed three hundred dollars;
12. Actions to enforce a lien upon personal property where the debt or de­ 
mand claimed does not exceed two hundred dollars. 
SEC. 3573. No justice shall have cognizance
of any action : 
1. Against an executor or administrator for any debt or demand due from
the testator or intestate; 
2. Actions for libel, slander, malicious prosecutions or false imprisonment;
3. Actions where the title to real property shall come in question;
4. Actions for or against any town in which the justice is elected. 
SEC. 3574. Every justice of the peace shall keep a 
docket in which he shall enter in each case to which they relate:
1. The title of all causes commenced before him; 
2. The time when the process was issued against the defendant, when re­
turnable, and the particular process issued, and a statement of the return of
the officer; 
8. The time when the parties appeared before him, either without process
or upon the return of process; 
4. Where the pleadings are written a brief statement of their nature and
reference to the pleadings filed; and where the pleadings are made orally a
concise statement of the complaint of the plaintiff', the answer of the defendant,
the further pleadings, if any, and the issue joined; 
5. Every adjournment, stating at whose request and to what time and place; 
6. The issuing of a venire, stating at whose request and time and place of
its return; 
7. The time when a trial was had, the names of the jurors returned sum­ 
moned who did not appear and the fines imposed on them, if any, and the
names of the jurors who were sworn; 
8. The names of witnesses sworn at the request of either party, stating at
whose request; the objections, if any, made to the competency of a witness,
and the decision thereon ; 
9. The verdict of the jury and when received; 
10. Tile judgment rendered by the justice, and the time of rendering the
same, and the amount of the debt, damages, costs and fees due to each person
separate! v; · 
11. The time of putting in any stay of execution and the name of the suretv; 
12. The time of issuing execution and the name of the officer to whom de­ 
livered;
18. The return of every execution and when made and every renewal of an 
execution made bv him, with the date of such renewal;
14. The faot of his having given a transcript of the judgment to be filed in 
the office of the clerk of tlie circuit court and the time when the same was
given; 
15. The fact of a certiorari having been brought on any judgment rendered
by him and the time of service of the same; 
16. The fact of an appeal having been made from the judgment rendered
by him and the time when made; 
17. In addition to the above, he shall enter all motions made in a cause, and
his decision thereon? and the exceptions ta.ken thereto, and all other proceed­
ings before him in the cause which he may think useful. 
SEC. 3575. In the following cases, and no
others, a justice of the peace ma.y punish for contempt: 
1. Persons guilty of disorderly, contemptuous and insolent behavior towards
such justice, whilst engaged in the trial of a cause, or in rendering judgment,
or in any judicial proceeding, which tends to interrupt such proceedings or to 
impair the respect due to his authority;
2. Persons guilty of any breach of the peace, noise or disturbance tending 
to interrupt tlie official proceedings of such justice;
3. Persons guilty of resistance or disobedience to any lawful order or process 
made or issued byhim. 
SEC. 3576. Punishment for oontempts ma:y be bv
fine not exceeding twenty dollars or by imprisonment in -the county Jail not
exceeding two days, unless otherwise provided, at the discretion of the justice. 
SEC. 3577. No person shall be punished for
contempt before a justice of the peace until an opportunity shall have been
given bun to be heard in his defense, and for that purpose the justice may issue
his warrant to bring the offender before him. Bot if the offender be present
he may be summarily arraigned before the justice and proceeded against in
the same manner as if a warrant had been previously issued and the offender
arrested thereon. 
SEC. 3578. The warrant for contempt may be in
the following form: 
-- County,J ss,
Town of--. 
PROOEEDING8 FOR OONTBKPTS. 
THE STA TE oF 1s00Ns1N, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
You are hereby commanded to apprehend A. B. and bring him before J. P., 
one of the justices of the peace of the said county, at his office in said town,
to show cause why he, the said A. B., should not be convicted of a criminal
contempt alleged to have been committed on the -- day of--, A. D. 18-, 
before the said justice while engaged as a justice of the peace in judicial pro-
ceedings. . 
.Dated at the town aforesaid, the -- day of --, A. D. 18-
SEC. 35i9. Upon the conviction of any person
for contempt the justice shall make up a record of the proceedings on such
conviction, stating the particular circumstances of the offense and the judg­
ment rendered thereon, and shall file the same in the office of the clerk of the
circuit court and shall also enter the same in his docket as in civil cases. 
SEC. 3580. The record 0f conviction may be in the
following or an equivalent form: 
-- County, l · 
Town of --. f ss. ...
Whereas, on the -- day of --, A. D. 18-, while the undersigned, one 
of the justices of the peace of the town of --, in said county, was engaged
in the trial of a cause between C. D., plaintiff, and E. F., defendant, in said
town, according to the statute in such cases made and provided, A. B., of the
town of--, m said county, did interrupt the said proceedings and impair
the respect due to the authority of the undersigned by (here describe the cause
particularly); [ or whereas, the undersigned, one of the [nstiees of the peace of
the town of --, in said county, did issue a lawful process (or did make a law­
ful order) in a certain cause, wherein 0. D. was plaintiff and E. F. defendant,
requiring (here set forth the substance of the process or order), and whereas, 
A. B. was guilty of disobedience to said process (or order), (or was guilty of
resistance to said process or order) by (here set forth the means of disobedience
or resistance)]; and whereas, the said A. B. was thereupon required by the
undersigned to answer for said contempt and show cause why he should not
be convicted thereof; and whereas, the said A. B. did not show any cause 
azainst tlie said charge; be it therefore remembered, that. the said A. B. is
a~judged to be guilty and is oonvicted of the criminal contempt aforesaid, be­ 
fore tlie undersigned, and is adjudged by the undersigned to pay a fl ne of -­
dollars ( or to be imprisoned in the common jail of said county for the term of
two days or until he be discharged from imprisonment according to law). 
Dated this -- day of--, 18-. J.P., Justice of the Peace. 
SEC. 3581. The warrant of com­
mitment for any contempt shall set forth the particular circumstances of the
offense and may be in the following or equivalent form: 
-- County, l 
Town of --. f · 
88 
TaE SuTB OJ' W1sooNSIN, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
Whereas, A. B., of the town of --, was duly convicted by the undersigned, 
a justice of the peace of said county, of a criminal contempt, as appears by
the record of such conviction, of which the following is a copy (here insert a.
copy of the record of conviction). Therefore you are commanded to take the
body of the said A. B. and deliver him to the keeper of the common jail of
said county, who is hereby commanded to receive and keep the said A. B. in
safe custody in said prison until the aforesaid sum of -- dollars and all
legal expenses be paid and satisfied (or if judgment be that he be imprisoned
for the said term of -- days), or until he be discharged therefrom by due
course of law. 
Given under my hand this -- day of --, A. D. 18-. 
J. P., Justice of the Peace. 
SEC. 3582. When
any witness attending before a justice of the peace in any cause shall refuse
to be sworn in some form prescribed by law or to answer any pertinent or
proper question such J·ustice may by order commit such witness to the jail of
the county. Such or er shall specify the cause for which the same is issued,
and if it be for refusing to answer any question, such question shall be speci­
fied therein; and such witness shall be closely confined, pursuant to such order,
until he submit to be sworn or to answer, as the case may be. 
SEC. 35.88. The justice shall thereupon adjourn such
cause, at the request of the party, for such time as shall be reasonable or until
such witness shall testify in the case. 
SEC. 35~. Every justice of the 
peace and his sureties shall be liable on his official bond to each and every per­
son for whom snoh justice shall collect money and refuse to pay the same; and 
it shall be competent for any person to whom suoh justice and his sureties
may have become liable, as aforesaid, to sue him and his sureties therefor;
and on proof that such justice has nezleoted or refused to pay any sum of
money by him collected as aforesaid ju3gment shall be given agatnst the par­
ties defendants in such action, for the money so collected, together with in­
terests and costs according to the condition of such bond. 
SEC. 3585. Every justice shall preserve, file and
keep together all. affidavits and papers delivered to him to be filed in any
cause, separate from all other papers. 
SEC. 3586. If any justice
of the peace shall be about to be absent from the county for three days or
more or be unable from sickness to attend to business, when there shall be
pending before him any matter or action undetermined, he may deliver his
docket and all the papers relating to such matter or action, with a minute of
his proceedings therein, to some other justice of the same town, who may
thereupon proceed to hear, try and determine such matter or action in the
same manner as if such matter or action had been commenced before him and
with like effect; but the parties to such matter or action, their agents or at­ 
torneys shall be notified of such transfer previous to any hearing or trial of
such matter or action, and the justice having such docket may, whilst the same
shall remain in his possession, upon request of any party entitledthereto, issue
execution upon or give a certified transcript of any unsatisfied judgment ap­ 
pearing therein, with like effect as if issued by the justice so delivering such
docket to him. 
SEC. 8587. When the
term of office of a justice shall expire he shall forthwith deliver over to the 
nearest justice all the books and papers relating to his office as a justice of
the peace. 
SEC. 3588. Whenever any justice shall be removed
from office, or shall remove out of the town in which he was elected, or his
office shall in any way become vacant, except by death, if his successor be not
elected and qualified, such justice or the person in whose possession the same
may be shall, within ten days after such vacancy shall happen, deliver to the
town clerk all the books and papers in his custody relating to his office as a 
justice of the peace. 
SEC. 3589. In case an1
justice shall die and any books or papers belonging to such justice in his offi­
cial capacity shall come to the hands of any person the town clerk may de­
mand and receive such books and papers from the person having the same in
his possession; and it shall be the duty of every such person, within ten days
after anv such books and papers shall come into his possession, whether de­ 
mandedor not, to deliver the same to the town clerk. 
SEC. 3590. Whenever any town
clerk shall receive the books or any papers of any justice of the peace he shall, 
within ten days after receiving the same, deliver them over to some other jus­
tice of the same town and post up a notice in three of the most public places
specifying the name of the justice whose books and papers have been so deliv­
ered and to what justice and when the same were delivered. 
SEC. 8591. 
Whenever the office of any justice shall become vacant for any cause and there
shall be pending before him any matter or action undetermined and the books
and papers of such justice shall have been delivered over to any other justice
pursuant to law, such last-named justice shall proceed to hear, try and deter­
mine such matter or action and to issue execution thereon, and may also issue
execution upon any judgment appearing upon said books, and in either case
ma,: issue certified transcripts thereof in the same manner and with like effect
as if such action or matter bad been originally.commenced before him or judg­
ment rendered by him. 
SEC. 3592. 
All actions and proceedings before any justice of the peace and undetermined
when his office shall become vacant shall be continued as of course until the
expiration of ten days from the time when the books and papers of such jus­
tioe are delivered over to another justice of the town as provided by law; of 
which time the justice to whom such books and papers shall be delivered shall 
cause at least three days' notice to be given to the parties to such action or
proceeding, or snob of them as shall be within the county. 
SEC. 3598. Actions may be instituted be­
fore a justice of the peace either by the voluntary appearance of the parties
or by the process of summons or warrant. 
SEC. 3594. All process issued by a justice of the
peace shall run in the name of the" state of Wisconsin," be dated on the dav
It is issued, be signed by the justice issuing the same, may be under seal or
without seal, be directed to the sheriff or any constable of the proper county.
The justice issuing such process, before delivering the same to any person, shall
enter therein the names of both plaintiff and defendant, the name of the town,
village or city where it is issued, the date ol issue and the day and hour of the
return thereof. 
SEC. 3595. In all oases not otherwise spe­
cially provided for the first process in actions shall be by summons command­
ing the officer to summon the defendant to appear before such justice at the
time and place expressed in such summons, not less than six nor more than
fifteen days from the date thereof, to answer unto the plaintiff. 
SEC. 3596. A summons may 
be issued in favor of the same plaintiff against any number of defendants, and
on the return thereof the plaintiff mav proceed against each defendant sever·
ally, and the costs of such summons shall be apportioned among the several 
defend an ts.
SEC. 3597. A justice of the 
peace shall issue a summons returnable in three days in every case where he is
satisfied from the facts and circumstances stated in an affidavit of the plaintiff 
or other competent witness that the plaintiff has a subsisting and unsatisfied
cause of action upon a contract, express or implied, against the defendant and
that the defendant is a non-resident of the county or 1s about to remove from
the county with intent not to return thereto to reside, or that the defendant is
about fraudulently to remove, convey or dispose of his property so that the
plaintiff will be m danger of losing his debt or demand unless such summons 
be granted. 
SEC. 3598. When any action in a justice's
court shall be commenced by or against any town or town officer in his official
capacity the same shall be commenced before a justice of the peace elected in
some other town in the county. 
SEC. 3599. When
the name of any defendant is not known to the plaintiff an action ma.v be com­
menced by summons or warrant by a fiotitious name, and it shall not be abated
for that cause; but the justice may amend the proceedings according to the
truth of the matter and shall thereafter proceed therein in the like manner as if
the defendant had been sued by his right name. In an action against a part- _
nership, when the names of the several members thereof are not lmown to the
plaintiff or the person who makes the required affidavit on his behalf, an action -
may be commenced by summons or warrant in the partnership name and all
proceedings therein shall be in such name until the names of the several part­
ners are known, when they may be amended by substituting such names, and 
all subsequent proceedings shall be in their names. 
SEC. 3600. A summons,
except when issued against a corporation, shall be served by reading the same
to the defendant and delivering a copy thereof to him, when demanded, if the
defendant be found, and if not found, by leaving a copy thereof at his usual
place of abode in the presence of some one of the family of suitable age and
discretion, who shall be informed of its contents, at least six days before the
time of the appearance therein mentioned; a summons returnable in three days
must be served personally, and not less than two days before the time of the·
appearance therein mentioned. 
SEC. 8601. Actions in justice's court against
municipal or other corporations shall be commenoed by summons, except where
otherwise provided by law, which shall be served by leaving a copy thereof
with any officer or officers, a~nt or person upon whom the summons in an
action commenced in the circuit court against such corporation is required by 
law to be served, at least six days before the return da,Y thereof, except that 
in an action against a railroad or express corporation, m addition to the offi­
cers above referred to, it may be served upon any agent of the corporation who
has charge of an express office or a depot or station on the line of the railroad
'owned or occupied bv the defendant; and upon perfecting such service and a. 
legal return thereof "being made it shall be held to have the same effect as a. 
personal service upon a natural person, and like proceedings may be had in
such action as in cases against such persons. 
SEC. 3602. The plaintiff shall be entitled
to a warrant to arrest the body of the defendant uf.on filing with the justice an 
affidavit, made by him or some one in his behal , showing to the satisfaction
of the justice either: 
1. That the plaintiff has a demand against the defendant for money collected
by him as a public officer; 
2. That the plaintiff has a demand against the defendant for damages aris­
ing from the misconduct or neglect of the defendant in any professional em­ 
ployment or public office;
3. That the defendant has committed a trespass or other wrong, specifying 
the nature thereof, to the damage of the plaintiff; 
4. That the defendant has incurred a penalty or forfeiture by the violation of 
some law, specifying the same, for which the plaintiff filing such affidavit has
a right to prosecute in the name of the state or otherwise. Such affidavit shall
state the facts and circumstances within the knowledge of the person making
the same, constituting the grounds of the application, so that the justice ma.y
the better judge of tlie necessity and propriety of issuing such warrant. 
SEC. 3603. A warrant to arrest the body shall
oommand the sheriff or constable to take the body of the defendant and bring
him forthwith before such justice to answer the plaintiff, and shall further re­
quire the officer to notify the plaintiff of such arrest. 
SEC. 3604. A warrant shall be served by ar­
resting the defendant and taking him before the justice who issued the same:
but if such justice be, on the return thereof, absent or unable to try the cause
the officer shall forthwith take the defendant to the nearest justice of the same
town, who shall take cognizance of the cause and proceed therein as if the war­
rant had been issued by. himself. 
SEC. 8605. When a defendant is brought
before a justice on such warrant he shall be detained in the custody of the offi­
cer for toe space of twelve hours, and no longer, unless within that time he
has been released by the direction of the justice, or the trial of the cause has
been commenced or has been delayed at the instance of the defendant. 
SEC. 3606. Every constable or sheriff serving any
process authorized by this title shall return thereon in writing the time and
manner of service and sign his name and office to such return. 
SEC. 3607. If
any officer, without showing good cause therefor, fail to execute any process
delivered to him and make due return thereof, or make false return, such offi­
cer, for every such offense, shall pay to the party injured ten dollars and all
damages such party may have sustained by reason thereof. 
SEC. 8608. Every justice issuing any
process, upon being satisfied b7. the affidavit of the plaintiff or some one in his 
behalf, first duly filed with said justice, that such process will not be executed
for the want of an officer to be had in time to execute the same, may empower
any suitable person, not being a party to the action, to execute the same, by
an indorsement on the process to the following effect: 
At the request and risk of the plaintiff I authorize -- -- to execute and
return this writ. J. P., Justice of the Peace. 
And the person so empowered shall thereupon possess all the authority of a
constable in relation to the execution of such process and shall be subject to
the same obligations and shall receive the same fees for his services.
SEC. 8609. A summons may be in the following form:
-- County, } 
Town of --. ss.
THE STATE OF W1sooNsIN, to the sheriff or any constable of said county: 
You are hereby commanded to summon A. B., if he shall be found within
your county, to appear before the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace
1n and for said county, at my office in said town, on the -- day of -- , A. D.
18-, at -- o'clock in the --noon, to answer to C. D., plaintiff, to his dam­
age two hundred dollars or under. Hereof fail not at your peril. 
Given under my hand at --, this -- day of --, 18-. 
J. P., J ustioe of the Peace. 
SEC. 3610. When several
defendants are intended to be sued individually the following form may be 
used: ·
--County, l 
Town of --. f 
88• 
upder oath by the person appointed to make
service "that he had no direct interest in the
result of the suit" does not show that he was
competent. but the reverse: Union Kut. F.
Ins. Co. v. Page. 61 Mich. 72. 
THE STATE OF W1sooNsIN, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
You are hereby commanded to summon A. B., C. D., E. F., etc., severally and 
individually-each for himself, to appear before the undersigned, one of the
justices of the peace in and for said county, at my office in said town, on the
-- day of--, A. D. 18-, at -- o'clock in the --noon, then and there,
severally and individually, each for himself, to answer unto 0. P., plaintiff, to 
his damage two hundred dollars or under. Hereof fail not at your peril 
Given under my hand at--, this -- day of--, 18-. 
J.P., Justice of the Peace.
SEC. 3611. A warrant may be in the following form:
--CountyJ· 
Town of --. ss.
THE STATE OF rscoxsrs, to the sheriff or any constable of said county: 
You are hereby commanded to take the body of A. B., if to be found within
your county, and him bring forthwith before the undersigned, one of the jus- 
tioes of the peace in and for said county, at my office in said town, to answer
unto C. D., plaintiff, to his damage two hundred dollars or under; and you
are commanded to give due notice thereof to the plaintiff. Hereof fail not at
your peril. 
Given under my band 
at --, this -- day of --, 18-.
J. P., Justice of the Peace. 
SEC. 3612. Sections 2605 to 2609, inclusive, shall apply to
actions in justice's court. Any plaintiff or defendant, except persons under
twenty-one years of age, may appear by an attorney, agent or in person and
conduct or defend any action. A party authorized to appear by attorney or
agent may appoint any person such agent, and his authority may be written
or verbal and shall, in all oases, when required by the justice, be proved by the 
· agent himself or by other competent testimony unless admitted by the oppo­
site party.
SEC. 3613. No action shall be insti­
tuted by an infant plaintiff unless a next friend for such infant shall have been
appointed, but every action so commenced shall be dismissed. Whenever re­
quested the justice shall appoint some suitable person, who shall consent there­
unto in writing, to be named by such plaintiff to act as his next friend in such
action, who shall be responsible for the costs therein. 
SEC. 3614. After the service and
return of civil process against any infant defendant the action shall not be
further prosecuted until a guardian for such defendant shall have been ap­
pointed. Upon the request of a defendant the justice shall appoint soma
person who will consent thereto in writing to be guardian of the defendant 
in defense of the action; and if the defendant shall not appear on the return
day of the process or if he neglect or refuse to nominate such guardian the
justice may, at the request of the plaintiff, appoint any discreet person as such 
· guardian; and the consent of such guardian shall be filed with the justice, but
Ile shall not be liable for any costs m the action. 
SEC. 3615. The follow­
ing forms may be used under the two last sections: 
--County, ss.
I hereby consent to be the next friend of A. B., an infant, in an action 
against C. D., and hereby, for value received, promise and agree with the said
C. D. to pay him such costs as he shall recover against the said A. B. by
judgment in said action. J oHN STYLES. 
Dated, etc.
The said John Styles is accordingly appointed.
Dated, etc. J. P., Justice of the Peace. 
SEC. 8616. In all oases if the defendant shall, on the
return day of the process and before any proceedings are had on his P.art, make 
oath that, from prejudice or other cause, he believes such justice will not de- ·
oide impartially in the matter and sball pay to the justice seventy-fl ve cents
for making a copy of his docket and transmitting the papers in the case, then
such justice shall immediately transmit all the papers in the case to the near­
est justice of the peace in the same county; in case said nearest justice cannot 
be found or is unable to act from any cause then the said papers in said case
may be transmitted to the next nearest justice of the peace of the same countv
who can be found qualified by law to try a cause between the parties in such
action, who shall proceed to hear, try and determine the same in the same
manner as it would have been lawful for the justice before whom the said ac­
tion was commenced to have done. This provision shall not extend to any
second removal. 
SEC. 3617. If, previous to joining issue
in any action, either party, his agent or attorney shall make affidavit that
the justice before whom the same is pending is a material witness for such
party, without whose testimony he cannot safely proceed to trial, or if it shall
appear that the justice is near of kin to either party then and in such case
the said justice shall transmit said action and all papers appertaining to the
same to some other justice of the same county, who may thereupon proceed to
hear, try and determine the same in the same manner as it would have been
lawful for the justice before whom the said action was commenced to have
done. 
SEC. 3618. When a. suit in
which any person shall have been summoned as garnishee shall be removed
under the provisions of either of the preceding sections the garnishee suit and
all proceedings therein shall be removed to the same justice to whom the origi­
nal suit is removed. And whenever a suit commenced by garnishee summons
shall for any cause be removed to another justice the suit in which such gar­
nishee summons was issued shall also be removed to the same justice. In all
such cases the justice shall transmit the papers in both suits as provided in the
preceding sections, and the justice to whom the same may be removed shall
proceed to hear, try and determine the same in all respects as though the same
had been commenced before him. 
SEC. 3619. In every ao­
tion where the title to lands shall in any wise come in question the defendant,
at the time when he is required to-join issue, and not after, may in his answer 
state facts showing that the title to lands will come in question, which answer
must be in writing, signed by the defendant or his attorney, and delivered to
the justice, who shall file the same among the papers in the case. 
SEC. 3620. At the
time of tendering- such answer the defendant, with at least one sufficient surety,
to be approved o_v the justice, shall enter into a bond to the plaintiff, in the
penal sum of two hundred dollars, conditioned, if such plaintiff shall prosecute
his said action in the circuit court and if judgment be rendered against the de­
fendant on his answer setting up title in any such court, be will pay the amount
of such judgment with the costs. If such bond be not delivered the justice shall 
proceed with the case and the defendant shall be precluded in his defense from
all evidence drawing in question the title to land. 
SEC. 3621. Upon filing the answer
and bond the justice shall immediately make an entry thereof in his docket
and cease all further proceedings in the case; he shall collect from the plaintiff
one dollar for state tax on suit and certify and return to the circuit court of the
county a transcript of all the entries made in his docket relating to the action,
together with all process and other papers therein, and pay to the clerk of said
court said state tax in the same manner and within the same time as upon an
appeal. 
SEC. 3622. Upon filing the proceed­
ings and papers in the office of the clerk of the court the circuit court shall
become possessed of the cause and proceed therein to final judgment and exe­ 
cation the same as if said action had been originally commenced therein, and
the costs shall abide the event of the action. 
SEC. 3623. At the hour named
for the return thereof, in any process issued by a justice of the peace, and at
the hour to which any case shall be adjourned, such justice shall be present
and have his office open for the transaction of business. Upon the return of
process duly served and upon the day to which any case shall be adjourned
the justice shall call the case for trial at the hour specified in such process or
by such adjournment, but he shall wait one hour after the time so specified for
the appearance of both parties unless they sooner appear. 
SEC. 3624., 
Wlienever civil process shall be issued against any person who habitually ob­
serves and keeps the seventh day of the week, instead of the first, as a day of
rest, and such process shall be made returnable on Saturday, such defendant
shall be entitled to have the cause continued to the Monday following at the
same hour, upon tiling with such justice1 at or before the return of the process,
an affidavit in writing stating that he habitually keeps and observes the sev­
enth day of the week, mstead of the first, as a day of rest; and such defendant
shall be entitled to all his rights on suoh adjournment day of the same as if it
were the return day of such process. 
SEC. 3625. The parties shall in all cases join an issue
in law or in fact before an application for adjournment shall be granted by the
justice unless they consent to an adjournment without such issue being made,
except as provided in sections 3624 and 3629.
SEC. 3626. The following rules of
pleading and proceeding shall be observed in the courts of justices of the
peace: - . 
1. The pleadings in these cases are (1) the complaint of the plaintiff, (2) the
answer of the defendant. - 
2. The pleadings may be oral or in writing; if oral, the substance shall be
en tere<l by the justice m his docket; if in writing, they shall be filed by him
and a reference to them made in the docket. 
3. The complaint shall state, in a plain and direct manner, the facts oonsti­
tuting the cause of action. 
4. The answer may contain a denial of the complaint or of any part thereof
and also notice, in a plain and direct manner, of any facts constituting a de­ 
fense or counter-claim. The counter-claim must consist of one of the causes of
action mentioned in section 2656. The pendcncy of an action commenced by
an ordinary summons shall not be pleaded in abatement of an action com­
menced by summons returnable in three days or by warrant. 
5. Pleadings are not required to be in any particular form, but must be such
as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended. 
6. Either party may demur to a pleading of his adversary or any part thereof
where it is not sufficiently explicit to enable him to understand rt, or it con­
tains no cause of action or defense although it be taken as true. 
7. If the court deem the objection well founded it shall order the pleading
to be amended, and if the party refuse to amend the defective pleading shall
be disregarded. 
8. In case a defendant does not appear and answer the plaintiff cannot re­
cover without proving his case, except in cases provided by law. 
9. In an action or defense founded upon an account or instrument for the
payment of money only it shall be sufficient for a party to deliver the account
or instrument to the court and to state that there is due him from the adverse
party a specified sum which he claims to recoyer or set off. . . 
10. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allegation in a plead­
ing shall be disregarded as immaterial unless the court shall be satisfied that
the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby. 
11. The pleadings may be amended at any time before trial or during the .
trial when by such amendment substantial justice will be promoted. Any
defendant who shall have failed to appear on the return day of the process
against him, if the action shall have been adjourned by the plaintiff, may be
permitted to answer on such adjourned day if he shall then appear and re­ 
quest so to do before trial. If an amendment be made after the joining of
the issue or an answer put in after adjournment and it be made to appear to
the satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the
adverse party in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment shall be
granted. The court may also, in its discretion, require, as a condition of an
amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by the
court; but no amendment shall be allowed after a witness is sworn on a trial 
when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.
12. The court may, at the joining of issue, require either party, at the re­ 
quest of the other, at that or some other specified time, to exhibit his account
or demand or state the nature thereof so far as may be in his power, and in
oase of his default preclude him from giving evidence of such parts thereof as
shall not have been so exhibited or stated. 
SEC. 3627. At the time of joining issue or on any day to which the case may be 
adjourned, in an action upon contract for the recovery of damages for an in­
voluntary trespass, any defendant may offer in writing to -permit the plaintiff
to take judgment against him for the sum, damages or things stated in said
offer, with costs; if the plaintiff accept such offer he shall make such accept­
ance in writing, and such offer and acceptance shall be filed with the justice
and thereupon, if the justice shall be satisfied that the action was brought in
good faith and without collusion of the parties thereto, for the ascertainment
of which he may examine them ar.d witnesses on oath, he shall enter judgment
accordingly. '!'he entry of such judgment shall not prejudice the right of the
plaintiff to proceed to trial and judgment against any other defendant in said
action. 
SEC. 3628. If the plaintiff do not ao­
oept such offer it shall be deemed withdrawn and shall not be considered in any
manner or for any purpose by the justice or jury before whom the action is tried;
but if the plaintiff fail to recover a more favorable judgment than he would
have done by accepting the off er be shall not recover costs made after the mak­
ing such offer, but shall pay costs so made to the defendant. 
SEC. 3629. On the return dav of the
process, in all cases where the defendant does not appear, the justice shall, 
upon the application of the plaintiff, without requiring cause to be shown, ad­
Journ the case for such time as may berequired, not exceeding one week; but
1f such sufficient cause be shown on oath by plaintiff, his agent or attorney the
justice shall grant an adjournment for a longer time than one week, not ex­
ceeding ninety days. 
SEC. 3630. At the time
of the return of either a summons or warrant of attachment or of joining issue
without process the justice may, in his discretion, without the consent of either
partv, adjourn the cause not exceeding three days and shall, upon application
of efther party, without requiring cause to be shown, for such time as may be 
required, not exceeding one week; but if sufficient cause be shown on oath by
either party the justice shall grant an adjournment for a longer time, but not
exceeding ninety days. No adjournment of an action commenced by summons
or warrant of attachment returnable in three days, when the defendant ap­
pears, shall be granted bv the justice on motion of the plaintiff unless he shall
show cause therefor as provided in the next section. 
SEC. 3631. No adjournment after the first shall
be allowed upon the application of a party unless such party shall satisfy the
justice by his own oath or the oath of some other person that he cannot safely
proceed ·to trial for want of some material witness or testimony (naming such
witness or testimony), that he has used due diligence to obtain the same (set­
ting forth what diligence has been used), and that he believes if an adjourn­
ment be allowed he will be able to procure such testimony or witness in time
to be used upon the trial. 
SEC. 8632. Every adjournment shall be for suoh rea.sonable time, no, exoeeding in
all ninety days, unless by consent of partie~ a longer time be agreed upon, from
the day of the return of the process as will enable the party to procure such
testimony or witness and shall be at the oost of the party applying therefor,
unless otherwise ordered by the justice, and shall be paid by the party apply­
ing therefor; and the justice shall tax the fees of all witnesses who are m at­
tendance for the adverse party, except as provided in subdivision two of seo­ 
tion 3775. If any adjournment shall be made to a day which is or may be a
legal holiday the cause shall stan~ &djo~rned unt_il the next following secular
day, when it shall be proceeded with as if the adjournment bad been made to
said day. 
SEC. 3633. If a cause 
commenced by warrant to arrest the body be adjourned by the consent of both
parties or on the application of the plaintiff the defendant shall be discharged
from custody; but if such cause be adjourned upon the application of the de­
fendant he shall continue during the time of such adjournment in the custody
of the officer unless he shall enter into recognizance before the justice, with 
sue~ s~cnrity as the justice shall .approve, in .a penalty suffici~nt to se~ure t~e
plamt1ff's demand and costs, conditioned that if Judgment be given agamst him 
m the action and execution be issued against his person he will render himself
up on such execution before the return day thereof or in default thereof thal
he or his security will pay the judgment so recovered.
SEC. 3634. If any such recognizanoe shall
have been given upon any prior adjournment it shall not be necessary to enter
into any recognizance upon a subsequent adjournment unless such recognizance 
be required by the justice or by the bail of tae defendant in such prior recog·
nizance. 
SEC. 3635. In any action brought upon
such recognizance the plaintiff shall not be entitled to recover unless he show 
an execution upon the judgment obtained in the action in which such adjourn·
ment was had, duly issued within six days after the time when the same could
have issued against the person of the defendant, and a return thereon that such
defendant could not be found. 
SEC. 8636. If it appears on trial, from the plaint­
iff's own showing, that the title to lands is in question, which title shall be dis­
puted by the defendant, the justice shall dismiss the cause and the plaintiff
shall pay the costs. 
SEC. 3637. To -each witness ex­
amined on a trial the justice shall administer an oath before any evidence shall 
be given by him, which oath may be in the following form:
You do solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give relating to this 
matter in difference between -- --, plaintiff, and -- --, defendant,
shall be the truth. the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you 
God. 
If a.ny witness declare to the justice that he has conscientious scruples
against taking an oath after the above form then the justice may administer
tlie following affirmation: . . 
You do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm that the evidence
,:ou shall give relating- to this matter in difference between -- --, plaint- 
11f, and -- --, defendant, sha1l be the truth, the whole truth and nothing
but the truth; and this you do under the pains and penalties of perjury. 
SEC. 8688. The
justice shall take full minutes of all evidence given before him on the trial of
a cause and file the same among the papers in the case. He may, when he
shall deem it necessary, command anv constable to attend at the trial of a
cause and shall make an en try thereofin his docket. 
SEC. 8689. After issue joined in any civil
action in a justice's court, and before the commencement of the trial thereof,
either party, on first paying to the justice the jury fees in advance for one day's
attendance, may demand that the action be tried by a jury of six men ; and a
neglect to make such demand shall be a waiver of the right t9 trial by jury. 
The money so advanced shall be paid to the jurors when they shall have ren-
dered their verdict. 
SEC. 8640. Upon such demand of a jury the
justice shall direct the sheriff or any constable of the county who may be pres­
ent to write down the names of eighteen persons of the county, qualified to 
serve asJ'urors in courts of record, who shall be in no wise of kin to the plaintiff
or defen ant nor interested in the action. 
SEC. 3641. If no officer be present
the justice may appoint a suitable person to write down the names of such per­
sons, to whom he shall administer an oath or affirmation, which shall be as
follows: 
You do solemnly swear (or affirm) that you will perform tho duties required
of you according to the best of your abilities, without partiality to either party. 
SEC. 3642. From such list of names each party,
commencing with the party demanding such jury, may strike out alternately
1ix names; and in case of the absence of either partr. or his refusal to strike
out the justice shall appoint some other person to strike out six names. 
SEC. 3643. The justice shall issue a venire requiring
the officer to summon the six persons whose names remain upon the said list
of names to appear at the time and place mentioned therein to make a jury
for the trial of the action between the parties in the venire mentioned. 
SEC. 3644. The parties may agree
upon six or any less number of jurors to try the cause, and in such case the .... jus­
tice shall direct in the venire the summoning of the persons agreed upon, who1 
when summoned and appearing, shall compose the jury; and the justice shall
make a minute of such agreement in his docket. 
SEC. 3645. If any of said jurors shall not attend at the time 
so summoned to appear or in case there should be legal objections raised to
anv of those who shall appear the justice may order tlie officer to summon a
sufficient number of talesmen to supply the deficiency.
SEC. 3646. The following form of a venire may be
. used: 
-- County,J ss. 
Town of--.
THB Sun: os rsoossrs, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:· 
You are hereby commanded to summon -- -- to be and appear before
the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, on 
the -- day of --, at -- o'clock in the --noon of said day, at my office -
in said town, to make a jury for the trial of an action between -- --, _
plaintiff, and -- --, defendant. 
And have you then and there this writ.
Given under my hand this -- day of --, 18-. 
SEC. 3647. The officer shall summon the
jurors personally by reading the venire to them and shall certify and return
his doings thereon to the justice ..
SEC. 3648.
Every person who, being duly summoned as a juror, shall fail to appear or
who shall refuse to serve shall be deemed guilty of a contempt, and it shall 
be the duty of the justice to fine each of such persons in a sum not less than
five nor more than ten dollars and to commit him to the common jail of the
proper county until such fine be paid; and whenever any person, duly sum­
moned to arpear before him to serve as a juror, shall refuse to appear the
justice sbal ISSue an attachment for such person, directed to the sheriff or any
constable of his county, requiring such officer to attach the body of the per­
son so summoned and to bring him before such justice to serve as a juror.
The fees for issuing and executing said attachment shall be the same as are
now allowed by law in cases of civil warrant and they shall, in all cases, be
paid by the person attached; but if any person summoned as a juror shall ap­
pear before the justice and show good cause therefor the justice may excuse
him from such service. 
SEC. 3649. Either party may challenge any juror sum­
moned as aforesaid for cause and may have him sworn to answer questions 
concerning such ohallenge, and may prove such cause by other evidenoe; and
such challenge shall be decided by the justice. 
SEC. 8650. To each juror, selected as aforesaid, the
justice shall administer the following oath: 
You and each of you do solemnly swear (or affirm) that you will well and
truly try the issue joined between -- --, plaintiff, and -- --, defend­ 
ant, and a true verdict give, according to law and the evidence given in court,
so help you God. 
SEC. 3661. After the jury shall have been 
sworn they shall sit t~ether and hear the proofs and allegations of the par­
ties, which shall be delivered in public in their presence and hearing. 
SEC. 3652. After hear­
ing the proofs and allegations of the parties the jury shall be kept in some
oon venient place, under the charge of the proper officer, until they all agree
upon a verdict or shall be discharged by the justice; and for that purpose the
justice shall administer to such officer the following oath: 
You do swear, in the presence of Almighty God, that you will, to the ut­ 
most .of your ability, keep all the persons sworn on this inquest together in 
some private and convenient place, without drink, except water; you will not
suffer any person to speak to them nor speak to them yourself, unless by my
order, except it be to ask them whether they have agreed on their verdict,
until they liave agreed on their verdict or are discharged by the court; and
you will not, before they render their verdict, communicate to any person the
state of their deliberations or the verdict they have agreed upon. 
SEC. 3653. When the jurors have agreed upon
their verdict they shall deliver the same to the justice publicly, who shall enter
the same in his docket and enter judgment according to said verdict. 
SEC. 3G54. Whenever a justice shall be satisfied
that a jury sworn in any civil cause before him, after having been out a rea­
sonable time, cannot agree on their verdict he may discharge them and issue
a new venire, unless the parties consent that the justice may render judgment
on the evidence already before him or that a new trial be had before the jus­
tice. 
SEC. 3655. When the trial is before the justice
without a jury he shall hear the proofs and allegations of the parties, and after
the case has been submitted for his decision he shall not permit any further
evidence to be given or suffer any communication from either party or from
any other person in relation to such action, except in the presence of the par­
ties or on due notice thereof served upon the absent party, until he has ren­ 
dered judgment. 
SEC. 8656. The rules and laws
of evidence shall be the same in actions and prooeeclinga before justices of the
peace as in courts of record in this state. 
SEC. 8657. A judgment by confession may be entered
before a justice of the peace in any sum not exceeding three hundred dollars
without action, either for money due or to become due, or to secure any per­
son against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, if a state­
men t in writing be made signed by the defendant, verified by his oath and 
filed with the justice to the following eff eot: 
I. It must state the amount for which judgment may be entered and author­
ize the entry of judgment therefor by the justice; 
2. If it be for money due or to become due it must state concisely the facts
out of which it arose and must show that the sum confessed therefor is justly 
due or to become due; 
8. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff a~nst a oontingent lia­ 
bility it must state concisely the facts constituting the liability and must show
that the sum confessed therefor does not exceed the same. 
SEC. 3658. If the defendant shall fail to appeal' within
one hour after the time specified for the return of process duly served or after 
the hour of adjournment the justice shall proceed to hear the proofs of the
plaintiff and render judgment thereon according to law and equity, as the very 
right of the case may appear. 
SEC. 3659. Judgment of nonsuit shall be rendered against
a plaintiff prosecuting an action before a justice of the peace in the following
cases: 
1. If he discontinue or withdraw his action;
2. If h~ fail to appear on the return of any process, within one hour after 
the same is returnable;
3. If, after an adjournment, he fail to appear within one hour after the time 
to which the adjournment shall have been made;
4. If he become nonsuited on the trial. 
SEC. 8660. Judgment for the defendant shall be ren­
dered whenever a trial has been had and it be found by verdict or by the de­
cision of the justice that the plaintiff has no cause of action against the
defendant. 
SEC. 3661. Whenever a judgment shall be rendered by a justice
against any party, unless herein otherwise provided, it shall be with costs of 
the action. 
SEC. 3662. In all cases where
judgment shall have been confessed, or the plaintiff shall be nonsuited, or with­
draw bis action, or where a verdict shall be rendered in favor of either party,
or the defendant shall be in custody at the time of the trial of the cause, the
justice shall forthwith render judgment and enter the same in his docket. .In
all other cases, when the cause shall have been submitted to the justice for his
decision, be may take time to consider his judgment and in such case he shall
continue the cause to a time to be by him named, not more than seventy-two
hours from the time the same is so submitted, at which time he shall enter 
his judgment. 
SEC. 8663. In actions against two
or more persons jointly indebted upon any joint contract or liability if the
process be issued against all the persons so indebted and shall have been
duly served upon one or more of them the defendants so served shall answer 
to the plaintiff, and the jud~ent, if rendered in favor of the plaintiff, shall be
against all the defendants m the same manner as if all had been served with
process. Such judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the liability of the de­
fendants so served with process or who appeared therein; but against any
other defendant it shall be presumptive evidence only of the extent of the
plaintiff's demand after the liability of such defendant shall have been estab­ 
lished by other evidence. 
SEC. 8664. If any sum 
be found in favor of a party, either by the verdict of a jury or upon hearing
of the cause before a. justice, exceeding the sum for which a justice is authorized 
to give judgment such party may remit or release the excess and take judg­
ment for the residue. 
SEC. 8665. When the justice or
jury shall find in favor of the defendant on a claim of set-off and such set-off
shall be indivisible the justice may, at the request of the defendant, enter a
judgment for such sum as he has jurisdiction of; and if such set-off be in writ­
mg ne shall indorse the amount of the claim of the plaintiff and the judgment
alfowed by him on such writing. The finding and allowance of a set-off shall
not be a bar to any action brought for the balance of such set-off; but the
same may be recovered in any court having' jurisdiction thereof. 
SEC. 3666. A new trial may be granted at any time within
one year from the rendition of a.ny judgment by a justice of the peace upon
a publication of notice, in the cases authorized by law, where no service has
been had and the defendant did not app~ar at the trial 
SEC. 3667. Such new trial shall be granted upon a
petition subscribed and sworn to by the defendant in such action, his agent or
attorney, 'addressed to the justice before whom the same was rendered, or the
justice to whom or the court into which the judgment has been removed, and
setting forth a valid defense, in whole or in part, to the cause of action upon
which such jud~ment was founded; and if the oourt to which such petition is
addressed is satisfied that it sets forth a valid defense, in whole o:r in part, to
the plaintiff's cause of action it shall make an order setting forth the time and
place and the court before whioh a new trial will take place. A copy of such
petition and order shall be served on the pla.intiff at least ten days previous to
the time fixed for the new trial. At the time so fixed the defendant shall an­
swer to the complaint the same matters of defense set forth in his petition, and
thereafter the same prooeedings shall be had as in other trials. 
SEC. 3668. No action on a judgment rendered
by a justice of the peace shall be brought in the same county within five yea.rs 
after its rendition, except in case of his death, resignation, incapacity to aet or
removal from the county, or, that the prooess was not personally served on the
defendant or on all the defendants, or in case of the death of some of the par.
ties, or when the docket or record of such judgment is or shall have been l•t
or destroyed.
SEC. 36.69. Every justice, on demand of an v 
person in whose favor a judgment for more than ten dollars, exclusive of costs, 
shall have been rendered, either by said justice or by any predeoessor in sueh
office whose dockets are in his custody, shall give to such person a certified
transcript of such judgment. Such transcript maybe in the following form: 
Justice's Court, 
A.B.} 
[CB. 158. COURTS OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE. 
vs. -- County, ss. 
O.D.
-- -- (date), 18-. 
Judgment for the plaintiff for the sum of--.
Costs--. 
Costs of copy -- twenty-five cents. 
Name of attorney for judgment creditor. if any, --. 
I certify the above to be a true copy of a judgment rendered before me (or
before E. F., late justice of the peace), in the above entitled cause, as appears 
from my (or his) docket now in my custody. 
Dated at --, this -- day of --, A. D. 18-. 
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
When the execution upon any judgment has been stayed as provided by
law the justice, in giving a transcript of such judgment, shall state in the
transcript that execution was stayed and give the name of the person who 
entered into the recognizance for that purpose.
SEC. 8670. Every justice shall keep an alpha­
betical index of all judgments entered in his docket in the course of anv judi­
cial proceedings had before him, in which shall be inserted the names "'of the
parties to each judgment and the page of his docket where such judgment is
entered. 
SEC. 3671. If there be mutual [ustioe'a 
judgments equitably belonging to the same parties, upon whioh the time of
appealing has elapsed on which there is no existing execution, one judgment,
on the application of either party and reasonable notice given to the adverse
party, may be set off against the other by the justice before whom the judg­
ment against which the set-off is proposed may be
SEC. 3672. If the­ 
judgment proposed as a set-off was rendered before another justice the party
proposing such set-off must .Produce before the justice a transcript of such
Judgment, upon which there is a certificate of the justice rendering the judg­
ment that it is unsatisfied in whole or in pa.rt and that there is no appeal or·
existing execution thereon, and that such transc~pt was obtained for the pur­
pose of being set off against the judgment to which it is offered as a set-off.
The justice granting such transcript shall make an &ntry thereof in his docket 
and all further proceedin~ on such judgment shall be stayed unless such tran­
script shall be returned with the proper Justice's certificate that it has not been.
allowed in set-off.
SEC. 3673. If any justice shall set
off one judgment against another he shall make an entry thereof in his docket,
and execution shall issue' only for the balance which may be found due after
such set-off. If a. justice shall allow a. transcript of a judgment rendered by
another justice to be set off he shall file such transcript among the papers re­
lating to the judgment in which it is allowed in set-oft'. If he shall refuse such
transcript as a set-off he shall so certify on the transcript and return the sam& 
to the party who offered it. 
SEC. 3674. The execution upon a judgment by
a justice of the peace may be stayed in the manner hereinafter provided and
for the following periods of time, to be calculated from the date of the judg­
ment, but a longer period may be agreed upon: 
1. If the judgment be for a sum not exceeding ten dollars, exclusive of
-eosts, one month; 
2. If it be for any sum above ten dollars, and not exceeding thirty dollars,
two months; . 
3. If it be for any sum above thirty dollars, and not exceeding fifty dollars,
three months; 
4. If it be for any sum above fifty dollars, four months; provided, that ex­
ecution shall not be stayed upon a judgment _rendered against a. corporation,
or for manual labor performed by the party in whose favor the same is ren­
dered; nor upon any judgment rendered under the provisions of sections 3698 
and 3699, except at the option of the plaintiff, but execution may issue forth-
with. 
SEC. 3675. To entitle such person to such stay
-of execution some responsible person, to be approved by the justice and not
bein~ a party to the judgment, must, within five days after the rendition of 
the Judgment, enter into a recognizance before the justice to the adverse party
in a sum sufficient to secure the payment of the judgment and costs, condi­
tioned to be void upon such payment. 
SEC. 3676. Such recognizance must be signed
by the person entering into the same and may be in the following form: 
I, -- --, acknowledge myself indebted to -- --, in the sum of -­
dollars, to be void upon this condition: Whereas, ___..._ -- obtained judgment 
before -- --, a Justice of the peace of the town of--, in the county of
--, on the -- day of--, 18-, against -- --; now if such judgment,
costs and interest shall be paid at the expiration of -- months from the
time it was rendered this recognizance shall be void. 
SEC. 3677. If a judgment be stayed in
the manner above prescribed after an execution has been issued thereon the
justice shall revoke such execution in the -ame manner and with like effect as
he is hereinafter directed to revoke an execution after an appeal has been
allowed and, if the defendant has been committed, shall order him to be dis­
charged from custody. 
SEC. 3678. If, at the ex­
piration of such stay, the judrmen t be not paid the execution shall issue against
both the principal and bail; if the principal do not satisfy the execution and
tho oflicer cannot find sullicient property belonging to him upon which to 
levy, he shall levy upon the property of the bail, and in his return shall state
what amount of money collected by him on the execution was collected by
him from the bail and the time when the same was received. 
SEC. 3679. After the return of
such execution the bail shall be entitled, on motion, to a judgment before the 
justice for the amount collected from him in satisfaction of such execution,
with interest thereon at twelve per oent. per annum; and such return of the
officer, uyon motion, shall be evidence of the facts therein stated; no such mo·
tion shal be made after three months from the return of the execution. 
SEC. 8680. Upon every judgment ren­
dered by a. justice, except when stayed as aforesaid, execution shall be issued
by such justice or his successor in office, or any other justice lawfully having
custody of the docket containing such judgment, in the manner hereinafter
prescribed at any time, upon demand, within five years from the rendition of
such judgment. 
SEC. 3681. An execution may be is­
sued against the person of the defendant when the action in which judgment 
is rendered is founded on tort or is for a penalty or forfeiture upon a statute,
and in no other case; but no execution shall issue against the person of any
female upon any justice's judgment in any civil action. 
SEC. 3682. The execution shall com­
mand the officer to collect the damages and costs, together with the interest
thereon, of the goods and chattels of the person against whom the execution
shall be granted Iexcept such as are exempted by law from execution), and to
pay the money within thirty days from its date to the justice who issued the
execution, to render to the party who recovered the same; and if the execu­
tion be issued against a. male person, in case where imprisonment is authorized
by law, it shall command the sheriff or constable that if no goods or chattels
can be found, or not sufficient to satisfy such execution, then to take the body
of the person against whom the execution shall be issued and convey him to
the common jail of the county there to remain until such execution shall be
satisfied and paid or he be otherwise discharged according to law.
SEC. 8683. Executions may be in the following form: 
Execution .Against Good8.
-- County, l 
Town of --. f · 
88 
THE STATE OF W1sooNsrN, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
Whereas, judgment against -- --, for the sum of--. lawful money of 
the United States, and for--, costs of suit, was recovered the -- dav of
--, A. D. 18-, before me at the suit of -- --; these are, therefore, to 
command you to seize the goods and chattels of the said -- -- (excepting
such as the law exempts), and make sale thereof according to law in such case
made and provided, to the amount of the said sums, with interest thereon, to­ 
gether with twenty-five cents for this execution, and the same return to me 
within thirty days, to be rendered to the said -- -- for his judgment and
costs. Hereof fail not under the penalty of the law. 
Given under my hand the -- day of--, in the year 18-: 
· J. P., Justice of the Peace.
. &ecution .Against G()(J(U and thd Body. 
-- County, l ss.
Town of -. -. f 
THE STATB ov WtsooNBIN, to the sheriff or any constable of said oonnty:
Wher~as, judgment against -- --, for the sum of--, lawful money 
of the United States, and for--, costs of snit, was recovered the -- day of
--, A. D. 18-, before me at the suit of -- --; these a.re, therefore, to
command you to seize the goods and chattels of the said -- -- ( excepting
such as the law exempts), and make sale thereof according to law in such case 
made and provided, to the amount of the said sums with interest thereon, to­
gether with twenty-five cents for this execution, and the same return to me
within thirty days, to be rendered to the said -- --, for his said judgment
and costs; and for want of such goods and chattels take the body of the said
-- -- and him convey and deliver unto the keeper of the common jail of
said county, who is hereby commanded to receive and keep the said -- -­
in safe custody in said jail until the aforesaid sums, with interest thereon and
all legal expense~ be paid and satisfied or until he be discharged thence by due
course of law. Hereof fail not under the penalty of the law. 
Given under my hand the -- day of --, in the year 18-. 
J. P ., Justice of the Peace.
.&ecution .Againat tM Goods of Principal, and Sur6ty. 
-- County, } as.
Town of--. 
Tm1: STATE OF W1s00Ns1N, to the sheriff or constable of said county:
Whereas, judgment against -- --, for the sum of--, lawful money 
of the United States, and--, costs of suit, was recovered the -- day of
--, A. D. 18-, before me at the suit of -- --. ; and -- -- became 
security to pay the said judgment, with interest on the same, in -- months
from the -- day of -- aforesaid agreeable to law, as appears of record;
in the pavment of which the said -- -- and -- -- have failed; these
are, therefore, to command you to seize the goods and chattels of said -­
-- and -- --(excepting such as the law exempts), and make sale thereof
according .o law in such cases made and provided, to the amount of such sums 
with interest thereon, together with twenty-five cents for this execution, and
the same return to me within thirty days, to be rendered to the said -­ 
-- for his said judgment and costs. Hereof fail not under the penalty of 
the law.
Given under my hand this -- day of--, in the year 18-. 
J. P., Justice of the Peaoe.
SEC. 3684. Before any execution
shall be delivered the justice shall state in his docket and also on the back of
the execution the amount of the debt or damages. and costs separately; and
the officer receiving such execution shall indorse thereon the time and the re­
ceipt of the same. 
SEC. 3685. If an execution be not satisfied
it may, at the request of the plaintiff, be renewed from time to time, either be­
fore or after the return dai thereof, by the justice issuing the same, by an in·
dorsement to that effect, signed by him, and dated when the same shall be
made. If any part of such execution has been satisfied the indorsement of
renewal shall express the sum due on the execution. Everv such indorsement
shall renew the execution in full force in all respects for thirty days and no
longer; and an entry of such renewal shall be made in the docket of the jus­ 
tice. 
SEC. 8686. If any execution be returned unsat­
isfied in whole or in part and shall not be renewed a further execution for the
amount remaining due may be issued. 
SEC. 3687. When a. judgment
shall be obtained against joint debtors neon process which was not served
upon all the defendants execution nmy be issued in form against all; but the
justice shall indorse thereon the names of such of the defendants who did not
appear in the action and were not served. Such execution shall not be served
upon the persons of the defendants whose names are indorsed thereon nor
shall it be collected from the sole pro~rty of any defendant who neither ap­
peared in the action nor was served with such process; but it may be collected
of the several property of any defendant who appeared or was served with
process or of the joint or copartnership property of all the defendants, except
as provided in subdivision nine of section 2969, which subdivision shall apply to
executions issued out of courts of justices of the peace. 
SEC. 3688. An officer shall not seize or sell
any property or do any other act by virtue of any execution after the time
limited therein for its return unless such execution shall have been renewed.
Nor shall any officer do any act under a renewed execution after the expira­
tion of the time or times for which the same may have been renewed. 
SEC. 8689. The officer
who shall hold any execution shall receive all money tendered in payment
thereof and shall indorse the same on the execution and give the person pay.
ing the same a receipt therefor, in which shall be specified on what account
the same was paid, if demanded. 
SEC. 3690. The officer, after taking goods
and chattels into his custody by virtue of an execution, shall indorse thereon
the time of seizing the same and a description or list of the property; and
such goods and chattels shall be bound from the time they are seized on exe­
cution. 
SEC. 3691. The officer shall, without delay, give publio
notice by at least three advertisements, signed by himself and put up at three
public places in the town where the property is sold, of the time and place
when and where the same shall be exposed to sale; which notice shall describe
the goods and chattels taken and shall be put .up at least ten days before the 
day of sale. 
SEC. 8692. At the time and place so appointed
or at such other time as the sale may be adjourned to, within the life of the
execution, the goods and chattels being present and pointed out to the inspec­
tion and exammation of the bidders, the officer shall expose them to sale by
vendue to the highest bidder. 
SEC. 3698. No constable shall, directly or
indirectly, purchase any goods or chattels upon any sale made by him upon
execution; and every such purchase shall be absolutely void.
SEC. 8694. The officer shall return the execu­
tion and pay the debt or damages and costs collected to the justice who issued
the same, or in case of his death, absence or removal from office, then to the
justice having custody of his docket, returning the surplus, if any, to the per­
son against whom the execution issued.
SEC. 3695. For want of goods and chattels to 
satisfy the execution the officer shall, if the execution require it, take the body
of the person ~nst whom the execution shall have issued and convey him to
the common jail of the county; and the keeper thereof is hereby required to
keep such l?erson in safe custody in jail until the debt or damages and costs
shall be paid or he be thence discharged by due course of law. 
SEC. 8696. Every constable to 
whom anv execution shall have been delivered and whose term of office shall
expire before the time within which the return or collection of such execution 
is required by law shall proceed thereon in the same manner and shall have
the same power in relation thereto as if his term of office had not expired; and ·
such constable and his sureties shall be liable for any neglect of duty and for
moneys collected upon such execution, in the same manner and to the same
extent as if the term of office of such constable had not expired.
SEC. 3697. Every officer
having an execution in his hands for collection, upon an affidavit being served
upon him, made by any co-defendant in such execution, his agent or attorney,
snowing the principal debtor therein, shall first exhaust all tl:ie personal estate
of said principal debtor which may be turned out by any one of the defendants
before selling the property of any other defendant who may be surety in the
demand upon which judgment was rendered. 
SEC. 8698. If an officer neglect to re­
turn an execution within five days after the return day thereof or shall neglect
to serve the same the party in whose favor the same was issued may maintain
an action against such officer, and shall recover therein the amount of the exe­
cution, with interest from the time of the rendition of the judgment upon
which the same was issued. 
SEC. 3699. If moneys be collected
by a constable upon an execution and not paid over by him according to law
an action may be maintained by the party entitled to such money, in his own
name, upon the instrument of security given by such constable and his sure-
ties according to law, and in suoh action the amount so collected, with inter­
est from the time of collection, shall be recovered.
SEC.  8700. If there be no property
found or if the property seized be not sufficient to satisfy the execution, and 
if the plaintiff or some other person in his behalf shall make and deliver to the
officer having snob execution an affidavit stating that he has good reason to 
belie!e t~at any p~rson (namJng him) is indebted to the defendant. or has prop­
erty m his possession belongmg to the defendant, or when there is more than 
one defendant, to any or either of them, not by law exempt from seizure and
sale upon execution, and demand that he summon such person as garnishee,
such officer shall summon such person in writing to appear before the justice
on the return day of such execution to answer touching his liability as gar­
nishee. On 'receipt of such affidavit such officer shall forthwith serve a gar­
nishee summons upon such person, which service shall be made at least six
days before the return day of the execution, and he shall return such affidavit
and summons and his doings thereon, and like proceedings shall be had before
the justice against such garnishee as in other garnishee actions in a justice's
court. 
SEC. 8701. Any person may commence an
action by warrant of attachment in a justice's court and proceed thereon
against the property of his debtor in the cases, upon the condition and in the
manner provided by this chapter. 
SEC. 3702. Before a war­
rant of attachment shall be issued the plaintiff or some person in hisbehalf
shall make and file with the justice an affidavit stating that the defendant
therein is indebted to the plaintiff in a sum exceeding five dollars and specifv­
ing the amount of such indebtedness as near as may be, over and above all 
legal set-offs, and that the same is due upon contract, express or implied, or
upon judgment or decree of seme court, and containing a further statement
that the deponent knows or has good reason to believe either, 
1. That the defendant is a foreign corporation, or, if created under the laws 
of this state, that a.11 the proper officers thereof on whom to serve a summons
do not exist, are non-residents of the state or cannot be found; 
2. That the defendant is not a resident of this state;
3. That the defendant has absconded or is about to abscond from this state; 
4. That the defendant has removed or is about to remove any of his prop­
erty out of this state, with intent to defraud his creditors; 
• 5. That the defendant resides in any other county and more than one bun.
dred miles from the residence of the justice; 
~- That the defendant contracted the debt under fraudulent representations;
7. That the defendant so conceals himself that the process of summons can­ 
not be served upon him;
8. That the defendant has fraudulently conveyed or disposed of or is about 
fraudulently to convey or dispose of any of his property or effects so as to
hinder or delay his creditors ;
' 9. That the action is brought against the defendant as principal upon an
official bond to recover money due to the state- er some county or other mu­
nicipalit:r. therein; 
Or a like a.ff?.davit showing that a cause of action sounding in tort exists in
favor of the plaintiff against the defendant therein; that the damages sus­
tained and claimed exceed the sum of five dollars, specifying the amount
claimed, and the further statement, either: 
1. That the defendant is not a resident of this state or that his residence is
unknown and cannot, with due diligence, be ascertained; or 
2. That the defendant is a foreign corporation.
Said affidavit may be amended at any time before trial by the snbstitution 
of a new affidavit containing allegations of facts existing at the time of mak­
ing the former affidavit, and ~he new affidavit s~all s~ana in lieu of the origi­ 
nal one for a.11 purposes, and if traversed or denied trial shall be had thereon
as in other cases. 
SEC. 8708. In the first five cases mentioned in the
preceding section the warrant of attachment shall be returnable in three days;
but in all other cases it shall be returnable as an ordinary summons. 
SEC. 8704. The warrant of attachment may be in
the following form: 
-- County, l
Town of --. t ss. 
THE Sum ol' W1sooNsIN, to the sheriff or any constable of said oounty:
You are commanded to attach the goods and chattels, moneys, effects and 
credits of -- --, or so much thereof as shall be sufficient to satisfy the
sum of--, with interest and costs of suit, in whosoever hands or possession
t.he same be found in your county, and so provide that the goods and chat­ 
tels so attached may be subject t~ further pro~edings thereon as the law re­
quires; and also to summons the said -- --, 1f to be found, to be and appear
before me at :ny office in said town, on the -- day of --, A. D. 18-, at 
-- o'clock in the --noon, to answer to -- --, to his damage two hun­
dred dollars or under. 
Given under my hand at --, this -- day of --, A. D. 18-. 
Sec. 108, oh. 88, R. S. 18'9; sec. 101, oh. 120, R. S. 1858. 
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
SEC. 3705. The officer shall execute a warrant of
attachment by serving the same upon the defendant in the same manner that
a summons, returnable within the like times respectively, is required to be
served and by attaching the goods and chattels, moneys, effects and credits of
the defendant, not exempt by law, and make due return of his doings thereon. 
SEC. 8706. Like pleading of the parties
and like proceedings shall be had in actions commenced by warrant of attach­
ment as in actions founded on contracts and commenced by summons. 
SEC. 3707. When the property of
the defendant shall be actually seized on attachment, whether such property 
be found in the possession of the defendant or some other person1 the defend­
ant or any other person for him, or the person in whose possession the same
shall be found may obtain possession thereof by giving bond, with one or
more sureties, to the satisfaction of the officer executmg tfie warrant in double
the value of the property so attached or in double the amount claimed to be
due in the affidavit for the attachment, conditioned that the same shall be forth­
coming when and where the justice shall direct and shall abide the judgment
of the justice. 
SEC. 3708. Attachments may
be dissolved on motion made in behalf of the defendant at any time before 
final judgment if the defendant shall appear and plead to the action and give
bond to the plaintiff with good and sufficient surety, to be approved by the
justice, in double the amount of the value of the property, effects and credits
attached, conditioned that if judgment be rendered against him in such action
he will pay the amount thereof with costs and interest thereon. 
SEC. 3709. When any attachment shall be dis­
solved the property and effects attached shall be released and the garnishees
shall be discharged and the action proceed as if it had been commenced by a
summons only. 
SEC. 3710. When property shall be 
seized on attachment, which is likely to -eerish or depreciate m value before the
probable end of the action or the keepmg of which would be attended with
much loss or expense, the justice may order the same to be sold by the officer
in the same manner and upon the same notice as goods are required to be sold
on execution; provided, that if it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction
of the justice that such property is likely to perish before the expiration of the
time required by law for notice of such sale he may by order direct that such
sale may be made upon the giving of not less than one day's such notice. The
proceeds of such sale shall remain in the hands of the officer, subject to be dis­
posed of as the property would have been if seized upon in specie.
SEC. 3711. When property is seized on at­
tachment the justice may allow to the officer having charge thereof such com­
pensation for his trouble and expenses in keeping and maintaining the same as
shall be reasonable and just. 
SEC. 3712. When the defendant can­
not be summoned and his property shall be attached, if he do not appear in
the action at the return of the warrant of attachment, the justice shall enter
an order on his docket requiring the plaintiff to publish in a newspaper, if there 
be one printed in the county, and if there be none, to post up in three of the 
most public places therein a. notice to the defendant that a warrant of attach­
ment has been issued against him and his property attached to satisfy the de­
mand of the plaintiff, and that unless he appear before the justice at some time
and place to be mentioned, stated in the order and in said notice, not less than
twenty nor more than ninety days from the date thereof, judgment will be
rendered against him and his property sold to pay the debt; and the justice
shall continue the cause to the time and place mentioned in said order. 
SEC. 8718. The notice may be in
the following form: 
-- County, } ss. In justice's court.
Town of--. 
To----:
You are hereby notified that a warrant of attachment has been issued 
against you and your property attached to satisfy the demand of -- --.
amounting to --; now unless you shall appear before J. P., a justice of the 
peace in and for said county, at his office in said town, on the -- day of--,
A. D. 18-, at -- o'clock in the --noon, judgment will be rendered against _ 
you and your property sold to pay the debt.
Dated 'this -- day of --, A. D. 18-. -- --, Plaintiff. 
SEC. 8714. Such notice shall be set up
or published at least fifteen days before the expiration of the time at which the
party is required to appear; and the setting up may be proved either by the
return of the officer, upon a copy of the notice, or by the affidavit of any person · 
who would be a, competent witness in the case. 
SEC. 8715. When the defendant shall 
be notified as aforesaid and shall not appear and answer to the action that
fact shall be entered by the justice in his docket and the plaintiff may proceed
thereon to final judgment as in actions commenced by summons; but no exe­
cution shall be issued on such judgment, either against the defendan,t or gar­
nishee, or money paid to the justice thereon until the plaintiff or some person
in his behalf shall execute a bond, in double the amount of such judgment, to -
the defendant, with security to be approved by the justice, conditioned that if
the defendant shall, within one year from the rendition of such judgment, ap·
pear and disprove the debt or damages adjudged against him or any part
thereof the plaintiff will refund the whole or such part thereof as may be found
not justly due on a review of the case.
SEC. 3715a. In a.ny action commenced by
attachment the defendant may, whether he shall answer the complaint or not,
by special answer, verified and filed with the justice at or before the time at 
which the warrant of attachment is returnable, deny the existence at the time
of making the affidavit for the attachment of any or all of the material facts
stated therein, except the alleged liability and the amount thereof. The issue
so raised shall be tried by the Justice and the affirmative thereof shall be upon
the plaintiff; and in determinmg such issue the justice shall follow the same
rules by which courts of records are governed in the trial of the traverse of
an attachment. If an issue shall be made and a trial had in the action by the
justice or by the jury the trial upon such traverse shall be had at the same
time with the trial of such action, but in all cases the justice shall make and
file in the cause his finding upon the traverse separately from the verdict or
finding in the action. 
SEC. 8715b. If the
justice shall determine the issue upon such traverse in favor· of the defendant
he shall tax his costs on such trial and forthwith enter in his docket an order
that the property attached be returned to the defendant, and shall also assess
the damages sustained by him by reason of the taking and detention or sale
of the property attached or of any injury thereto. If the defendant shall
succeed in the action the justice shall render judgment against the plaintiff
for such damages, together with the costs of such traverse and of the action;
and if the plaintiff shall recover the justice shall set off against his recovery
and the costs the said damages and the costs of the trial of such traverse and
shall exclude from the costs taxed in favor of the plaintiff all costs caused by
or arising from the attachment; and if said damages and oosts of the tra verse
shall exceed the plaintiff's recovery and the costs m the action he shall render
judgment against the plaintiff for the overplus. If on the trial of such traverse
the justice shall find for theJlaiatiff he shall tax his costs on such trial, and 
the amount so taxed shall, · he recover in the action, be added to his costs
therein; and if the defendant recover judgment in the action such amount so
taxed shall be applied toward payment thereof. 
SEC. 37150. Either party may appeal from the finding upon
the trial of any traverse to the court to which an appeal might be taken from
a judgment in the action, in the same manner that he might appeal from such
judgment, but such appeal must be taken separately from any appeal from
such judgment. The court to which such appeal is taken shall try and deter­
mine the issue raised by such traverse in the same manner as though the ac­
tion had been brought and the traverse served and filed therein, and may
increase or -diminish any assessment of damages made by the justice.
SEC. 3715d. No such appeal shall
stay or prevent the sale of the attached property if the finding upon the trav­
erse is in favor of the plaintiff, or the delivery thereof to the defendant if suoh
finding is in his favor, unless the party appealing shall file with the justice, at
the time of taking the appeal, a written undertaking on his part, with one or
more sureties, to be approved by the appellate court, the judge thereof or bv
the justice, to the effect, if the defendant shall be appellant, that, if the find­ 
ing appealed from shall be atlirmed or judgment be rendered upon such appeal 
agaiP:-.t the appellant, he will pay the. pl~intiff the amount for which judg­
ment has been or sh al I be rendered, with interest and costs, or, at the option
of the appellant, to the effect that he will pay the plaintiff the value of the
property returned to him, which shall be determined by the court, with inter­
est thereon, the costs of the action and of the traverse; and, if the plaintiff
shall be appellant, that if the finding upon the traverse be affirmed or [udg- 
ment be rendered against him he will pay the defendant the value of the
property attached, as determined by the court, with interest thereon and all
damages assessed and costs taxed against him by reason of the attachment. 
SEC. 3716. Whenever any action shall have been com­
menced, bv summons, upon contract, express or implied, or by warrant of at­
tachment ID a justice's court, if the plaintiff or some one in his behalf shall
make and deliver to the otfioer having such summons or attachment an affida­
vit stating that the atfiant has good reason to believe that some person (nam­
ing him) is indebted to the defendant or has personal property in his possession
or under his control belonging to the defendant, or when there is more than
one defendant, to any or either of them, not by law exempt from sale on ex­
ecution, and demand that he shall summon such person as garnishee such offi­
cer shall summon such person in writing to appear before the justice, on the
return day of such summons or attachment, to answer touching his liabilit>: as
~rnishee. Such affidavit may be amended with the same effect as is provided
m section 3 702. 
SEC. 3717. The summons to the
garnishee may be substantially in the following form: 
-- County, } 
Town of--. · 
Sec. 117, ch. 88, R. S. 1849; sec. 115, ch. 120,
R. 8.1858; sec. 2, ell. 58, 1858 "(making a further
requirement that he shall return the garnishee
summons and affidavits at the time of the re­
turn of the original process"); ch. 405, 1887, 
and sec. 3718a, Ann. Stat& 
88 
THE STATE ol!' W1sooNsm to -- --:
Whereas, a summons (or warrant of attachment) has been issued by J. P., 
Esq., a justice of the peace of said county, returnable on the -- day of--, 
A. D. 18-, in favor of----, plaintiff, and against -- --, defendant;
and whereas the plaintiff (or A. B. in his behalf) has made oath that you have
property in your possession or under your control belonging to the defendant
{or are indebted to him): 
Now, therefore, you are hereby summoned to be and appear before the said
justice at his office in said town on the return day of said summons (or warrant
of attachment) at -- o'clock in the --noon of said day, then and there to 
answer under oath touching your liability as garnishee.
Given under my hand this -- day of--, 18-. 
SEC. 3718. The officer shall serve
such summons on the garnishee personally and return the same with the affi­
davit, to the justice at the same time that he shall make return of the summons
or warrant and state in his return the day service was made on the garnishee, 
A copy of such summons shall be served on the defendant within the time serv­
ice thereof is required to be made on the garnishee. If the defendant cannot
be found or is not a resident of the state then service may be made upon him
by publication as provided in sections 3712 and 3718, with like effect, unless
he shall have a known agent or attorney residing within the jurisdiction of
the justice, or some member of his family, of suitable age and discretion, shall
reside within the same, when service maybe made upon such agent or attor­
ney or some such member of the defendant's family. The summons to the de­
fendant may be substantially in the following form: 
-- County, } I . ti , t 
Town of --. ss. n JUS ice s cour .
To----: 
You are hereby notified that a summons and garnishee has been issued against
you and your property garnished to satisfy the demand of -- --, amount­ 
ing to --; now unless you shall appear before J. P., a justice of the peace in
and for said county, at his office in said town on the -- day of--, A. D. 
18-, at -- o'clock in the --noon, judgment will be rendered against you
and your property sold to pay the debt. 
Dated this -- day of--, A. D. 18-. -- --, Plaintiff.
SEC. 3719. The garnishee, from the time of
the service of such summons, shall stand liable to the plaintiff to the amount
of the personal property, money, credits and effects in his hands belonging to 
the defendant and the amount of his own indebtedness to the defendant then
due or to become due, and not by law exempt from sale on execution. 
SEC. 8720. The service of the garnishee summons
shall be deemed the commencement of an action against such garnishee; and
upon the return of the constable that such summons has been duly served the
justice shall enter an action in his docket in which the plaintiff in the original
action shall be plaintiff and the garnishee defendant. 
SEC. 3721. The garnishee may appear
in person or by agent or attorney; the affidavit aforesaid shall be deemed a
sufficient complaint in the action; and the garnishee may answer the matters
alleged in the affidavit either orally or by written answer, duly verified and
filed with the papers in the case, and if the answer is oral it shall be reduced to
writing by the justice and be so filed; the action ma7 be adjourned by the
garnisliee as in ease of a second adjournment in justices courts in civil actions. 
SEC. 3722. 
If the plaintiff shall not be satisfied with the answer of the garnishee or if
either party shall desire a trial the justice shall enter that fact on his docket
and the case shall forth with be :proceeded with and tried upon the issue formed
by the affidavit and answer, as mother actions commenced by summons, and
if upon the trial of any such issue property or effects, not by law exempt from
seizure upon attachment or execution, shall be found in the hands of the gar­
nishee or it shall be found that he was indebted to the defendant and that such
indebtedness was not exempt, the justice or jury shall assess the value thereof
and the garnishee shall hold the same subject to the further order of the jus­
tice; but if, upon such trial, it shall be found that the r roperty or effects in
the hands of the garnishee or his indebtedness to the defendant is exempt the
justice shall forthwith enter an order in his docket discharging the garnishee;
and if it shall be found that any part of such property or effects or such in­
debtedness is exempt he shall enter an order in his docket discharging the gar- 
nishee from all liability to the plaintiff as to the property or effects or the
amount of indebtedness so found to be exempt. Either party may appeal from
such .finding and order to the court to which an appeal might be taken from
a judgment in the action, but such appeal must be taken separately from any
appeal from such judgment. 
SEC. ·3723. The defendant in the original action may appear and defend the pro­
. ceedings against the garnishee upon the ground that the indebtedness of the 
garnishee or any property held by him is exempt from execution against such
defendant or for any other reason is not liable to garnishment, or upon a.ny
ground upon which a garnishee might defend the same, and may participate 
m the trial of any issue between the plaintiff and the garnishee for the protec­
tion of his interests. And the garnishee may, at his option, defend the prin­ 
-cipal action for the defendant, if the latter does not appear therein; but such
defense by a garnishee shall not preclude the defendant from any right he may
have to a new trial in such action under the provisions of sections 3666 and
3667. And the garnishee, if he has property in his possession or under his 
.control belonging to the defendant, may further answer that said property is 
exempt from execution, but said garnishee shall not be compelled to set up
said exemption and shall in no manner be held liable to said defendant or to
any other person for failure to set up such exemption. 
SEC. 3723a. If 
the answer of the garnishee shall disclose that he has money, property or
.etfects in his possessron or under his control belonging to the ifefendant or is 
indebted to him and that said money, property, effects or indebtedness are
held and are subject to a garnishee proceeding or proceedings or a warrant or
warrants of attachment issued by any court within this state or any court
of the United States, and shall, on making such answer, request a stav of pro­
oeedingsfor a definite period, not exceeding one year, until such proceeding
or proceedings are disposed of, the justice shall enter an order to that effect and
shall adjourn the garnishee action until the clay to which such proceedings are
stayed. The plaintiff may, however, on not less than six days' written notice to
the garnishee, apply to the justice to have said stay of proceedings vacated, and
on making satisfactory proof to the justice that the proceedings on account of
which the stay was granted have been disposed of, said justice may vacate
the same and proceed to a further examination of the garnishee, and if such
examination and shall show that the garnishee is indebted or has money,
property or effects·in his possession and not subject to such prior proceedings,
and not exempt from execution, the justice shall proceed as to the same as in
other cases. 
SEC. 3723b. If the answer of the garnishee shall disclose that be is indebted
to or has money, property or effects belonging to the defendant in his posses­
sion, and that the same are not exempt from execution and are claimed by 
some person or persons not a party to the action, giving his or their names and
postotfice address, if possible, and that he is in doubt as to whom said money,
property or effects should be delivered or sach debt paid, the justice may order
him to pay the money into court or deliver said money, property or effects to·
the court or some officer designated thereby, and give said garnishee a receipt
therefor which shall be a full discharge of all liability on his part. The justice
shall thereupon cause a. notice setting forth the facts stated in said answer to
be served upon the person or persons mentioned therein as claiming said debt,
money, property or effects, which notice shall be served upon him or them in
the manner provided for the service of a garnishee summons, and which shall
direct said person or persons to appear before the Justice who has jurisdiction
of the garnishee action and defend his or their rights thereto. Said justice
shall thereupon adjourn said action to such time, not exceeding ninety days in 
all, as may seem to him fit, and shall make said notice returnable at the time
and place to which he has so adjourned. If such pel"Son so summoned shall
appear and claim the said property, but fail to establish his right thereto,
costs shall be awarded against bun as in other cases.
SEC. 3724. If in the action instituted against the
garnishee the plaintiff shall be nonsuited or discontinue his action, or if upon
the answer and trial of the issue between the plaintiff and garnishee no prop­
erty or effects shall be found in the hands of the garnishee or nothing shall be
found due from the garnishee to the defendant, or if in the action against the
P.rincipal defendant the plaintiff shall be nonsuited or discontinue his action, or
if on the trial in such action nothing shall be found due from the defendant 
to the plaintiff, then in each of these cases the ~arnishee shall recover costs
against the plaintiff and no such costs shall be paid by the defendant. 
SEC. 3725. If the·
plaintiff recover against the defendant in the original action and the answer of
the garnishee, when no issue is made thereon, or the finding of the court or
jury on an issue show that the garnishee at the time of the service of the sum­
mons bad property in his possession belonging to the defendant or that he was
indebted to him the justice shall enter an order in his docket requiring the gar­
nishee, within ~n days, to pay or deliver to the justice such property or the
amount of such indebtedness, or so much thereof as mav be necessary to sat­
isfy such judgment, with costs thereof, and the costs of the g-irnisbee proceed­
ings; or if it appears from such answer or finding that the garnishee is to pay
or deliver to the defendant any money or property in any other manner or at
any other time than immediately and at the time of the service of the sum­
mons, the same belonging to the defendant, then the order of the justice shall
be that such payment or delivery be so made to the justice for the benefit of
the plaintiff. If such garnishee shall pay such indebtedness and deliver such
property as directed by such order the costs of the garnishee shall be paid out
of the money or property received by the justice, unless the garnishee upon an
issue joined with him by the plaintiff shall have been held liable in a greater
amount of property or indebtedness than was disclosed in his answer, in which
case be shall not have costs; and all property and effects, except money, deliv­
ered to the justice shall be by him ordered to be sold on the execution against
the defendant. 
SEC. 3726. If the garnishee do not deliver over the prop­ 
erty or pay the money due or found in his hands and belonging to defendant
as provided in the preceding section judgment shall forthwith be given against
him as follows: 
1. If the value of the property in the possession of the garnishee, as found
by the justice or jury, shall be less or equal to the judgment against the prin­
cipal defendant for damages and costs, then for the value as so found. 
2. If the value of the property in the possession of the garnishee, as found 
by the justice or jury, sliall exceed the amount of the judgment for damage,
and costs against the principal defendant, then for the amount of the judg­
ment for damages and costs against the principal defendant, with the costs of
suit in the action in which he is garnishee, not exceeding the value as found
by the justice or jury. The plaintiff at his election, instead of taking judg­
ment as aforesaid for the value as so found against the garnishee, may enforce
the de1ivery of the property found in his hands by proceedings as for a con­
tempt in case of the garnishee's refusal to deliver tlie property found in his
possession pursuant to the order of the justice requiring such delivery. An
appeal may be taken from any order of the justice directing the delivery of
the prol?erty in the garnishee's possession tlie same as if from a judgment.
Proceedings under said order· may be stayed during the pendency of the ap­
peal by the execution by the defendant of an undertaking, with one or more
··41·,ties, to be approved by the justice, to the effect that if the order appealed
from shall be affirmed or the appeal dismissed the appellant will pay to the
plaintiff the value of the property mentioned in said order with interest and
the costs of the plaintiff on the appeal, or that, in either such event, he will
deliver such property to the plaintiff and pay interest on the value thereof
and such costs. 
SEC. 3727. No final judgment
shall be rendered against the garnishee until final judgment be rendered
against the defendant in the original action; but no judgment shall be ren­
dered against a garnishee or any money or property be required to be deliv­
ered by him to the justice upon any liability arising out of either of the causes
mentioned in section 276!1. 
SEC. 8728. When a garnishee
shall fail to appear or, appearing, shall fail to make full answer touching his
liability, the Justice shall enter such fa.ct in his docket and he shall be adjudged
to be indebted to the defendant; a.nd if judgment shall be rendered in favor of
the plaintiff suoh judgment shall be entered against such garnishee and shall
include all costs in the garnishee proceedings, and no such costs shall be paid
by the defendant; or, on demand of the plaintiff, he may issue a warrant for
the arrest of the garnishee, which shall be served in the same manner as war­
rants issued by justices of the peace in oivil actions founded on tort, and the
garnishee shall be held thereon until he shall make full .and direct answers
touching his liability; and the justice ma.y continue the cause to some other
day, if necessary, for further proceedings. 
SEC. 8729. If the garnishee shall have
failed to appear at the proper time he may afterward appear and answer at
a.ny time before final judgment against him if he shall first pay a.ll costs in the
garnishee suit which have accrued up to that time; a.nd when he shall soap­
pear the justice shall cause the plaintiff to be notified thereof, so that he may 
be present at the making of snob answer. 
SEC. 3730. In all actions brought by the defendant
against the garnishee for the recovery of any property, credits, money, in­
debtedness or effects delivered up or paid on the order of the justice or of any
judgment rendered under this chapter, except [forl costs rendered against the
garnishee, such order or judgment may be pleaded in bar and the same shall 
be conclusive between such parties and those claiming under them as in other 
cases. 
SEC. 3731. Actions
of replevin for the recovery of the possession of goods and chattels in justices' 
courts shall be commenced by warrant, which shall be made returnable on the
third r'ay after it shall issue, Sundays and legal holidays excepted, and shall be
substantially in the following form: 
--Oounty,J 
Town of--. es. ' · 
THE Su TB OF rsoossrs, to the sheriff or any constable of said county: 
Whereas, -- -- complains that -- -- has taken and does unjustly
detain (or does unjustly detain, as the case may be) (here particularly describe .
the goods mentioned in the affidavit of the complainant); therefore, you are
hereby commanded to seize the said goods and chattels without delay and to 
hold the same subject to the further order of the court; and also that you
summon the said -- -- to be and appear before me, one of the justices of
the peace in and for said county, at my office in said town, on the -- day of
--, A. D. 18-, at -- o'clock in the --noon, to answer the complaint of
the said -- --. 
Given under my hand this -- day of --, A. D. 18
SEC. 3732. Such action shall not be main­
tained for any property taken by virtue of any warrant for the collection of
any tax in pursuance of any statute of this state; nor shall it be maintained
by any defendant in any execution or attachment to recover goods and chat­
tels seized on such execution or attachment unless such goods and chattels are
exempt bv law from seizure and sale thereon; nor shall it be maintained nt 
the suit of any person unless. he shall at the time have a right to reduce the
goods and chattels to possession. 
SEC. 3733. No such warrant shall be issued
until an affidavit shall be filed with the justice, made by the plaintiff or some
one in his behalf, stating that such plaintiff is then lawfully entitled to the
possession of certain personal property, giving aparticular description thereof,
and of the value thereof, and that the same has been unjustly taken and is un­
justly detained (or that the same is unjustly detained, as th·e case may be) by
the defendant, naming him, and that the same has not been taken for any tax 
levied by virtue of any law of this state nor seized under any execution or at­
taohment against the goods and chattels of such plaintiff liable to execution. 
SEC. 3734. The warrant shall be served on
the defendant by delivering to hi!f1 personally, if he can ~e found, a, copy of 
the same; 1f he cannot be found 1t may be served by leaving the same at his
usual place of abode, with his wife or with some person of proper age belong­
ing to his family, at least two days before the return day thereof. 
SEC. 3735. If the property to be
seized or any part thereof be secreted or concealed in any dwelling-house o·r 
other building or iuclosure the officer shall publicly demand deliverance thereof,
and if the same be not delivered by the defendant or some other person he
shall cause such house, building or inclosure to be broken open and shall seize
such property according to the warrant; and if necessary he shall take to his
assistance the power of his county. 
SEC. 3736. The officer shall return the
warrant immediately after the service thereof and state in his return fully in 
what manner he has served and executed the same, and shall keep the goods
and chattels in his possession until the cause is decided by the justice. 
SEC. 8787. Whenever such
action shall be brought by or against the sheriff of any county the warrant
and all process in the cause shall be awarded to and executed by any constable
of the oounty. 
SEC. 8738. If the goods and
chattels specified in the warrant have not been seized thereon the plaintiff
may proceed in the action for the recovery thereof or of the value thereof. 
SEC. 8739. The affidavit shall be deemed the complaint in
the action and the defendant may answer thereto as in other cases. 
SEC. 3740. The action shall be subject to the same usages, rules and
re~ulations as other cases before a justice's court, as far as the same are ap­ 
plicable, but no adjournment shall be allowed to either party unless such party
shall satisfy the justice in the same manner as in case of an application for a
second adjournment in other cases; and such party shall also enter into a bond
to the opposite party, with a sufficient security, to be approved by the justice,
conditioned that such applicant will pay all costs and damages which shall be
adjudged against such applicant on a trial of the cause. 
SEC. 3741. The security in the preceding section mentioned
may be entered on the docket of the justice in the following form: 
I do hereby agree to pay all costs and damages which shall be adjudged
against -- -- in this action. A. B. 
I hereby appro,·e the security, the said A. B. having justified (or been ao-
cepted by the -- --). J. P., Justice. 
SEC. 374i. In such action it 
shall be necessary for the plaintiff, whether the defendant be present or not,
to prove all the allegations of his complaint; and on such proof, if the justice
or jury shall tind in favor of the plaintiff, they shall find as follows: 
. 1. That the plaintiff is entitled to the possession of the goods and chattels
specified in the com plaint or some part thereof, specifying the same; 
2. That the defendant unjustly took or unlawfully detamed the same;
3. The value thereof; 
4:. The damages which he has sustained by the unjust taking or detention
thereof. . 
And the justice shall immediately enter an order in his docket requiring
the officer to deliver the same goods and chattels to the plaintiff and adjudge
that he recover such damages and the costs of the action and shall issue exe­
cution therefor. 
SEC. 8743. If the plaintiff shall discontinue his action, become nonsuited or shall
otherwise fail to prosecute his action to final judgment, or if on trial of the
issue joined the justice or jury shall find for the defendant, or if on such trial
the justice or jury shall find the goods and chattels to be of a greater value
than the amount over which a justice has jurisdiction then, in each of these
cases, the justice or jury shall assess adequate damages for the caption and
detention of the goods and chattels seized; and the justice shall immediately
enter an order in his docket that the officer deliver the said goods and chattels
to the defendant and adjudge that he recover such damages and costs, and shall
issue execution therefor. 
SEC. 3744. If the justice or jury
shall find that the plaintiff is entitled to the possession of a part of the goods
and chattels seized and that the defendant is so entitled to the residue they
shall find separately the value of the portions belonging to the plaintiff and
the defendant and separately as.ess the damages sustained by each party by 
the unjust taking or detention thereof by the other; and the justice shall im­
mediately enter an order in his docket requiring the officer, to deliver to the
respective parties the property to which they are entitled according to such
finding; he shall set off the damages assessed to the respective parties and
render judgment in favor of the party to whom the greatest amount of dam·
ages were assessed for the excess of such damages above the amount assessed 
to the other party; or upon the demand of the defendant the justice may, in
bis discretion, order all the property delivered to the plaintiff and render judg­
ment for the defendant for the value of his portion of the 'property seized, add­
ing interest thereto from the time of the seizure, and deducting therefrom the
amount of damages assessed in fa\"or of the plaintiff-; and the costs of such
action shall in either case be awarded in the discretion of the justice. 
SEC. 3745. Whenever, upon the
trial, it shall appear that one party has a lien or claim upon the property
seized or a part thereof, to a pa.rt of its value only, and the right of possession,
and that the right of property in the same, subject to such lien or claim, is in
the other party, the justice or jury shall also find the amount of such lien or
claim; and upon demand of the party having such lien or claim the justice
shall render a judgment in his favor for the amount thereof with interest and
costs, and order the property subject to such lien to be delivered to the other
party; otherwise for a delivery of the property to the party establishing the
lien, with jud~ent for his damages and costs as in other cases unless the lien
be forth with discharged and the costs of the action paid by the other. 
SEC. 3746. If the officer return on the war­ 
rant that the defendant has not been duly summoned in either of the modes 
hereinbefore prescribed and that he has seized the goods and chattels men­
tioned in the warrant then, if the defendant do not appear to the action at
the return of the warrant, the justice shall enter an order in bis docket re­
quiring the plaintiff to give notice to the defendant as in case of a defendant
not summoned, whose goods have been attached; such notice shall contain a
full description of the goods and chattels seized, and its :publication may be
proved in the manner in which a notice in attachment is proved; and the
cause shall be continued to the time and place mentioned in the order. 
SEC. 3747. When the defendant has been
notified as aforesaid and shall not appear and answer to the action the fart
shall be entered by the justice in his docket and the plaintiff may proceed
thereon to final judgment as if he had been duly summoned; but no execution
shall issue on such judgment for costs and damages nor shall any order be
made for the delivery of goods and chattels to the plaintiff until such plaintiff
or some person in his behalf shall execute a bond to the defendant in double
the value of the property, with security to be approved by the justioe, condi­
tioned that if the defendant shall, within one year from the rendition of such
judgment, appear and disprove the same tho plaintiff will make return of said- 
property, if return be adjudged, or will pay the value thereof and all costs and
damages which may be adjudged against him on a new trial of the case
SEC. 3748. If
the goods and chattels specified in the affidavit shall not have been seized suoh
plaintiff, in case he shall recover judgment upon the hearing of the case, shall
be entitled, in addition to his judgment for damages and costs, to a further
judgment that such goods and chattels be seized and delivered to him without
further delay; or in default thereof that such plaintiff do recover from the
defendant the value of such goods and chattels as the same shall have been
assessed by the jury or justice on the trial or upon the hearing. 
SEC. 8749. The execution to be issued upon such judgment
shall command the officer to levy the plaintiff's damages and costs of the
goods and chattels of the defendant, as in other executions against property,
and also to seize the goods and chattels described in the complaint, which shall
also be specified in the execution, and to deliver them to the plaintiff, if they
can be found within his county; and if the same cannot be so found, then that
he levy the value of such goods and chattels, specifying the same, together with
the aforesaid damages and costs, of the goods and chattels of the defendant as
above provided. 
SEC. 3750. The officer shall proceed in the same man­
ner to collect any moneys directed to be collected upon such execution as upon
executions against propert1 in personal actions, and he shall possess the same 
powers in respect to the seizing of the property described therein as are herein
provided upon the execution of warrants to seize property. If the goods and
chattels described in the execution are seized and delivered to the plaintiff they
shall not be liable to seizure in an action by the defendant to recover the pos­ 
session thereof. 
SEC. 8751. Whenever an order
shall be entered by a justice, in an action for the recovery of the possession of
personal property, for the delivery of property to either :party, the proP.erty
shall not be delivered to the party in whose favor the same is entered until the
expiration of twenty-four hours after the entry of such order.
SEC. 3752. When property is seized on the
warrant the justice may allow the officer having charge of the same such com­
pensation for his trouble and expenses in keepin~ and maintaining the same aa
shall be reasonable and just; and when the officer shall keep such property
pending an appeal the appellate court may fix and allow such eompensation;
and the same, m either case, may be taxed as disbursements against the losing 
party. 
SEC. 3758. Any party to a final judgment ren­
dered by a justice of the peace, and when a Judgment shall be rendered against
a garnishee the defendant in the original action, may appeal therefrom to the
circuit court or other court having jurisdiction of the appeal in the cases and
manner hereinafter provided. 
SEC. 3754. 
The appellant or some person authorized by him· must, within twenty days
after judgment rendered, make and present to the justice before whom the .
action was tried, or his successor in office, or any other justice then lawfully
having custody of the docket containing such judgment, a notice of appeal,
togetlier with an affidavit that the appeal is ma.de in good faith and not for
the purpose of delay; and the appellant must, at the time of presenting such
notice and affidavit to the justice, pay him his fees in the action, together with
one dollar for his return and one dollar for state tax and two dollars for clerk's 
- fees for the clerk of the court appealed to; but if the judgment be rendered
on process not personally served and defendant did not appear he shall have
twenty days after personal service of written notice of the judgment to pre­
sent such notice of appeal and affidavit; but in no case shall an appeal be taken
after the expiration of two years after the entry of the judgment. 
SEC. 8755. When by reason of the death of a. 
justice of the peace, or his absence from the county or any other cause the
notice of appeal and affidavit cannot be presented to him they may be filed
with the clerk of the court to which the appeal is taken within the time afore­ 
said. 
SEC. 3756. If the appellant desires a stay of exe­
cution of the judgment, except in actions of replevin, a written undertaking
must be executed on the part of the appellant, by one or more sufficient sure­
ties, to be approved by the judge of the appellate court or by the justice, to
the effect that if the appeal shall be dismissed or if judgment be rendered 
against the appellant and execution on the judgment be returned unsatisfied
in whole or in part the sureties will pay the amount unsatisfied. 
SEC. 3756a. In proceedings on certiorari to a justice
of the peace if the relator desires a stay of execution of the judgment of the 
justice a. written undertaking must be executed on his part with one or more
sufficient sureties, to be approved by the judge of the court issuing the writ or
by the justice, to the effect that if the writ shall be quashed-or superseded, or
if the judgment shall be affirmed and execution thereon be returned unsatisfied
in whole or in part the sureties will pay the amount unsatisfied.
SEC. 8757. The delivery: of the undertaking
to the court below shall stay the issuing of execution; or 1f it have been issued,
then service of a copy of the undertakmg, certified by the court below, upon
the officer holding the execution shall stay further proceedings thereon. 
SEC. 8758. When by reason of the death of a 
justice of the peace, or his removal from the county or any other cause the
undertaking on the appeal cannot be delivered to him it shall be filed with the
clerk of the appellate court and notice thereof given to the respondent, or his
attorney or agent, and it shall thereupon have the same effect as if delivered
to the justice; and in such case the undertakings required to be filed to prevent
or secure the delivery of property after judgment in actions of replevin may
be filed with the clerk, who may make the orders which the justice of the peace
should have made.
SEC. 3759. If
any party to an action of replevin shall, within twenty-four hours after entry
of any order therein requiring the officer to deliver the property seized or anr 
part thereof to the opposite party, make and file with the justice an affidavit
stating that he intends to appeal .therefrom according to law, then such prop­
erty shall not be so delivered unless the party in whose favor such order is entered
shall, before the time for taking such appeal expires, cause a written under­
taking to be executed on his part, with one or more sufficient sureties, and filed
with the justice, to the effect that if, on appeal by the opposite party, the judg­
ment shall be reversed in t.he appe~late court as to any part of said property
ordered to be delivered to him he will return such property or so much thereof
as shall be adjudged to be returned to the appellant and pay any judgment
which may be rendered against him on such appeal, and abide any other order
or judgment of the appellate court. Upon makmg and filing such undertaking
the property shall be forthwith delivered according to the order of the justice
without regard to the appeal. 
SEC. 3760. If the party making such
affidavit shall perfect his appeal within the time required by Jaw and tlie suc­
cessful party shall not have given the undertaking required by the preceding section, within the time therein prescribed, the appellant may, within five days
after the expiration of the time for taking the appeal, cause an undertaking to 
be executed upon his part, with one or more sufficient sureties, and filed with
the justice, to the effect that if the judgment appealed from be affirmed in the
appellate court as to any part of said property ordered to be delivered to the
opposite party or if the appeal shall be dismissed he will return such property
or as much thereof as shall be adjudged to be returned, and pay all costs and
damages awarded against him in the action, and abide any other order or
judgment of the appellate court, and upon the filing of such undertaking the
justice shall enter an order in his docket requiring the officer who has the cus­
tody of such property to deliver the same to the appellant, who, upon being
served with a copy of such order, shall deliver the same accordingly. The
filing of such undertaking with the justice shall stay the issue of execution on
the Judgment for costs and damages; or if it has been issued, then service of
a copy of such undertaking, certified by the oourt below, upon the officer hold­
ing the execution shall stay further proceedings thereon. 
SEC. 3761. If the ap­
pellant shall have filed his affidavit as required by section 3759 and have 
perfected his appeal within the time prescribed by law, and neither party shall
have made and filed an undertaking as above required within the time pre.
scribed, then such property shall remain in the custody of the officer who
seized the same, pending the appeal, subject at all times to the order of the
appellate court. In all cases where the appellant sha1l not have made and
filed the undertaking prescribed in the preceding section the appellant may
stav the execution as to damages and costs by giving the undertaking re­ 
quired in section 3756 at any time within five days after the expiration of the
time of taking the appea1. 
SEC. 3762. Either undertaking mentioned
in sections 3759 and 3760 shall be of no effect unless it be approved by the
justice and accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, in which each surety
shall state that he is worth a sum to be therein stated, not less than double the
value of the property ordered to be delivered as found by the justice or jury,
mer a.!ld above all his debts and liabilities in property within this state not
by law exempt from execution. 
SEC. 3763. After ten days,
and within thirty days after any appeal shall be perfected, the justice shall
make a return to the appellate court of the testimony, proceedings and judg­ 
ment and file the same therein, and pay to the clerk the state tax and the. two
dollars clerk's fees. If the return be defective the appellate court may direct 
a further or amended return as often as may be necessary, and may compel
an original or further return by attachment. But no justioe shall be bound
to make a return unless his fees, the state tax and the two dollars clerk's fees 
be paid as prescribed by section 3754 at the time of the service of the notice of
appeal. 
SEC. 8764. When a justice of
the peace bv whom a. judgment appealed from was rendered shall have gone
out of office or removed to another county in the state before return was or­
dered he shall nevertheless make return, and may be compelled to do so by 
attachment in the same manner and with like effect as if he were still in offioe. 
SEC. 3765. If a justice
of the peace whose judgment is appealed from shall die, become insane or re­
morn from the state the appellate court may examine witnesses on oath to the
facts and circumstances of the trial or judgment and determine the appeal as 
if the facts had been returned by the justice. 
SEC. 3766. If neither party shall bring
the appeal to a hearing in tho appellate court before the end of the second 
term after filing the return of the justice therein such court shall dismiss the
appeal unless it shall continue the same by special order for cause shown. 
SEC. 3767. The appeal shall be heard on the
original papers and the return of the justice, containing all the material evi­
dence and his rulings in the action, in case the judgment, exclusive of costs, does
not exceed fifteen dollars, except as otherwise provided in the next section. 
SEC. 8768. The appeal shall be tried in the appellate
court as actions originally brought there in the following cases: 
1. When the judgment appealed from shall exceed fifteen dollars, exclusive
of costs; 
2. When the plaintiff appeals from a judgment against him or in his favor
for a sum not exceeding fifteen dollars, exclusive of costs, if, at the time of
appealing, he shall make an affidavit that he has a valid claim, as he verily
believes, against the defendant, as set forth in his complaint, exceeding the 
• sum of fifteen dollars;
3. When the defendant appeals from a judgment in favor of the plaintiff 
for a sum not exceeding fifteen dollars, exclusive of costs, the plaintiff shall
make an affidavit, as above prescribed, and file the same with the clerk of the
court in which the appeal is pending and serve a copy thereof on the defend­
ant or his attorney eight days prior to the term at which the case is first no­
ticed for trial; 
4. When judgment shall be rendered against the defendant or in his favor
for a sum not exceeding fifteen dollars, exclusive of costs, if the defendant, at
the time of appealing, shall make an affidavit that he has a valid claim, as he
verily believes, against the plaintiff, as set forth in his answer, exceeding the
sum of fifteen dollars; 
5. If the appeal be from a judgment rendered in an action of replevin and
the value of the property in controversy, as found by the justice or jury, shall
exceed the sum of fifteen dollars. 
SEC. 3769. Upon the hearing of the
appeal, when there is no new trial, the appellate court shall give judgment 
according to the weight of the evidence and the justice of the case, without re­
gard to technical errors w hioh do not aff eot the merits and without regard to
the finding of the justice, and may, if necessary, amend the pleadings therein,
render an affirmative judgment or affirm or reverse the judgment in whole or
in part, either as to damages or costs, or both, as to any or a.11 of the parties,
and for errors of law or fact. To the copy of every such judgment upon ap­
peal there shall be annexed the return upon which 1t was beard, which shall be
filed with the clerk of the court and constitute the judgment roll. The judg­
ment shall be docketed in, and· be executed by the process of, the appellate 
court. 
SEC.  3770. Whenever
any appeal from & judgment of a justice's court shall for any reason be dis­
missed the clerk of the appellate· court shall, as soon as may be after the time
shall have expired to appeal from the order of dismissal, transmit all the papers
in the case on said appeal to the justice from whose judgment the appeal was
taken; and the said justice shall thereupon proceed to enforce the collection
of said judgment in the same manner as though no appeal had been taken. 
SEC. 3771. 
In every case where the appellate court shall gh-e judgment against a. party
appealing, who shall have given an undertaking to stay execution in the court
below, such judgment shall be entered against the appellant and his sureties
jointly; but it shall not be collected of the sureties by the officer to whom
the execution is directed if he can find sufficient property of the principal to
satisfy the same, and the party issuing the execution shall indorse a direction
thereon to that effect. 
SEC. 3772. If any justice's judgment or
any part thereof be collected and the judgment be afterwards reversed the
appellate court shall order the amount collected to be restored with interest
from the time of the collection; such order may be obtained upon proof of the
facts, upon notice and motion, and may be enforced as a judgment. 
SEC. 3773. At the time of serving a writ of cer­
tiorari upon a justice of the peace the party in whose favor the writ shall
issue shall not be required to pay any costs or fees to the justice nor for a re­
turn to such writ. Such justice of the peace shall file such writ and his return
thereto with the clerk of the court issuing the same within ten days after serv­
ice thereof on such justice. If the return so made is defective the court may
direct a further or amended return as often as may be necessary. And such
court may compel an original or further return by attachment. 
SEC. 3774. Justices of the peace may be allowed to 
receive the following fees and may tax the same in all cases when applicable, 
and all fees of said justices in the progress of a cause shall be taxed in the
judgment in favor of the party who recovers judgment: 
For a summons, warrant or subpoena, twenty-five cents.
For a venire for a jury, twenty-five cents.
For a warrant in a criminal case, twenty-five cents.
For taking a recognizance of bail, twenty-five cents.
For administering an oath to a witness, six cents; and for administering all 
other oaths and certifying the same when necessary, twelve cents.
For a warrant of attachment, twenty-five cents.
For entering a judgment, twentv-five cents.
For every adjournment, twenty-flve cents.
For every bond, undertaking or security, directed by law to be taken and 
approved by the justice, twenty-five cents.
For receiving and entering verdict of jury, twenty-five cents.
For entering return to any process, twelve cents.
For taking an examination, testimony or for any writing done in a cause, 
twelve cents per folio.
For taking deposition, twelve cents per folio; and for copy of proceedings 
or of any paper or examination in any case, when demanded, per folio ten oenta.
For entermg satisfaction of judgment, twelve cents.
For entering amicable action without process, twelve cents.
For a transcript of judgment, twenty-five cents.
For opening a judgment for rehearing, twenty-five cents.
For filing all papers, five cents each.
For issuing notice to take deposition, twenty-five cents.
For taking and approving undertaking and making return to an appeal, in­ 
cluding travel, one dollar.
For a search-warrant, twenty-five cents. 
For drawing an affidavit in attachment, replevin or garnishee, twenty-five
cents; and for any other affidavit or other paper drawn by the justice, for
which no other allowance is made by law, twelve cents per folio. 
For commitment to jail, twenty-five cents.
For an order to bring up prisoner, twenty-five cents.
For an order to discharge prisoner, issued to jailer, twenty-fl ve cents.
For discharging a prisoner after hearing, on motion to discharge, twelve oent&
For an execution, twenty-five cents.
For every other writ not herein enumerated, twenty-five cents.
For taxing costs, twelve cents. .
For docketing, twenty-five cents.
For marrying and making return thereof, one dollar and fifty cents, and 
such other sum as may be al1owed by the party making the application.
For holding an inquisition in certain cases of forcible entry and unlawful 
detainer, one dollar.
For taking and certifying the acknowledgment of a deed, for each grantor 
named therein, twenty-five cents.
For traveling to perform any service, when not otherwise provided for and 
such travel is necessary, going, per mile, six cents.
For assisting clerk of circuit court in drawing jury, one dollar; for certifi­ 
cate of conviction, twenty-five cents; for returnmg papers after preliminary
examination, one dollar.
SEC. 3775. The justice shalJ
also tax as costs in favor of the party recovering judgment the followin~: 
1. Witness' fees for travel and attendance, not exceeding, however, fifteen
dollars in one case, unless the justice shall, by an order entered in his docket,
direct that a larger sum be taxed therefor, in which case he shall state in such
order the reasons for making the same, provided, that in no event shall any
sum exceeding twenty-five dollars be taxed in one case; and fees of jurors at
the rate of fifty cents per day and six cents for each mile actually and neces­
sarily traveled to attend such trial, both coming and going, for each juror in
attendance, less the amount advanced by the opposite party when the jury
shall have been demanded by him; such jurors' fees, when collected, shall be
paid by the justice to the jurors entitled thereto. 
2. Fees for serving subpoenas and travel in serving the same; but no such
witness' fees or for serving subpceaas on the same shall be taxed for travel or
attendance on the return day except in cases where either party is entitled to
proceed to trial on such return day, unless an adjournment be had for cause
shown and except when an actual trial shall be had on such return day. 
· 3. All other lawful fees and charges of any constable or other officer for
services rendered in the action pursuant to law. 
4. An attorney's fee as follows, except when the amount thereof is otherwise
specially provic.ed for by law: on all judgments for the sum of fifty dollars or
less, a sum equal to ten per cent. of the jud8'ment; on all judgments over fifty
dollars and less than one hundred dollars, nve dollars; on all judgments for
one hundred dollars or over, ten dollars; in actions of replevin the value of
the property recovered shall govern the amount of attorney's fees to be re­
covered in such action; and when judgment is for the defendant the amount
claimed in the plaintiff's complaint shall govern the amount of the attorney's
fees to be recovered by the defendant; out no attorney's fee shall be taxed
unless the party has appeared therein by an attorney of a court of record and
the defendant has appeared and put in an answer or demurrer. 
SEC. 3776. At the time of entering judgment the justice
mnv proceed to tax costs in the cause and no notice of such taxing need be
gi veu to the party against whom judgment is rendered. 
SEC. 3777. 
The justice shall allow no fees for the travel of a witness or interpreter unless
the same be proved bv the oath of some person having knowledge of tbe fact,
nor for tra vcl in serving a su bpcena unless the same be charged by a constable
or sheriff or be proved by the oath of a person who served the same; and no 
fees shall be allowed to a party for serving or travel in serving a subpoena in
bis own case.
SEC. 3778. The attendance of not
more than five witnesses to each particular fact shall be taxed by the justice; 
and if any witness shall attend upon two or more cases in the same day before
the same justice's court his fees shall be equally apportioned-among the parties
who shall summon him. No fees for copies of documents or papers or for
depositions shall be allowed unless such copies or depositions were used upon 
the trial. 
SEC. 3779. No disbursements to offi­
cers or others shall be allowed unless the items are particularly specified and
proved to the justice and the same were in his opinion necessary and reason­
able in amount; and the justice may hear any evidence which may be offered
to prove any charge is unreasonable or that the service has not been rendered. 
SEC. 3780. The return of a
sheriff or constable to any writ shall be presumptive evidence that such return
is correct and that the service has been rendered or disbursement made. 
SEC. 3781. In actions against a garnishee the
person summoned to answer shall be entitled to receive the same fees for travel
and attendance as a. witness, and he shall not be bound to appear or answer
unless his fees for travel and one day's attendance shall be first paid, and such
fees shall be taxed as costs in the action as witness' fees are taxed. When a
corporation is garnished the fee for the attendance of some officer to answer
the same shall be paid to the person upon whom the garnishee summons is
served. 
SEC. 3782. Every justice of the peace shall,
in all civil actions, except as is otherwise provided 1n these statutes, either be­ 
fore or after the process shall issue, require the plaintiff, if a non-resident of
the county, to give security for costs and may, in bis discretion, require a like
security of all other plaintiffs; and if the plaintiff refuse or neglect to give
such security, when required, the action shall be dismissed; provided, that
whenever the plaintiff in an action to recover for work or labor performed
shall file an affidavit with the justice that he has a valid claim against the de­
fendant for work or labor performed and is unable to comply with the order
requiring him to give security for costs, the action shall not be dismissed be­
cause such security is not given.
SEC. 3783. The person becoming se­ 
curity as aforesaid shall sign the following memorandum on the docket: I, 
A. B., agree to become security for the costs in this action. And if judgment
be rendered in such action against the plaintiff execution for costs may issue
against the plaintiff and the surety; or, at the option of the party entitled to 
such costs, he may maintain an action upon snob memorandum against the
security for the recovery of the same. 
SEC. 3784-. Every county judge
who shall have in his possession ·any will shall open and announce his posses­
sion thereof in open court on the first day of the session thereof next succeed­
ing the day when such judge shall first have notice of the testator's death;
and shall retain such will and give notice of the same being in his possession
to the executor therein named, if any, otherwise to some person interested in
the provisions thereof; or if the jurisdiction of the case belongs to any other
court such will shall be delivered to the executor named therein or to some
other trusty person interested in the provisions of the same, to be presented
for probate in such other court. 
SEC. 3785. Every
person, other than the judge of the county court, having the custody of any
will shall, within thirty days after he has knowledge of the death of the
testator, deliver the same into the court which has Jurisdiction of the case
or to the person named as executor therein. Every person named as executor
in any will shall, within thirty days after the death of the testator or within
thirty days after he has knowledge that he is named executor, if he obtain
such knowledge after the death of tbe testator, present such will to the county
court which has jurisdiction of the case, unless the will shall have been other­
wise deposited with the judge of -the county court, and shall, within the period
above mentioned, signify to the court his acceptance of the trust or in writing
refuse to accept it. Every person who shall neglect to perform any of the
duties required in this section, without reasonable cause, shall be liable to each
and every person interested in such will for all damages caused by such neglect. 
SEC. 3786. If any person having the custody
of any will after the death of the testator shall, without reasonable cause, neg­
lect to deliver the same to the county court having jurisdiction thereof, after
he shall have been duly. notified by such court for that purpose, he may be com­
mitted to the jail of the county by warrant issued by such court and there be
kept in close confinement until he shall deliver the will as required. 
SEC. 3787. When any will shall have been
delivered into or deposited with any county court having jurisdiction of the
same such court shall appoint a time and place of proving it, when all con­
cerned may appear and contest the probate thereof, and shall, by order, cause
notice of such time and place to be given by personal service on all persons
interested at least ten days before the time appointed or by publication in a
newspaper as provided in section 4045, at least three weeks successively pre­
vious to said time; and no will shall be proved until notice shall he given as
herein provided.
SEC. 3788. If no person shall appear to
contest the probate of a will at the time fixed for that purpose the court may,
in its discretion, grant probate thereof on the testimony of one of the subscrib­
ing witnesses only, if such witness shall testify that such will was executed in
all particulars as required by the statutes of this state and that the testator
was of a sound mind at the time of the execution thereof. If none of the sub­
scribing witnesses shall reside in this state at the time fixed for proving the
will or if any one or more of them shall have gone to parts unknown and the
court shall be satisfied that such witness, after due diligence used, cannot be 
found, the court may, in its discretion, admit the testimony of other witnesses
to prove the sanity of the testator and the execution of the will and may admit
proof of his handwriting and of the handwriting of the subscribing witnesses. 
SEC. 3789. Any will duly admitted to probate
without this state and in the place of the testator's domicile may be admitted
to probate and recorded in this state by duly filing an exemplified copy of said
will and of the record admitting the same to probate; and such will shall
then have the same force and effect as if originally proved and allowed in this
state. 
SEC. 3790. When a copy of any such will and
the probate thereof, duly authenticated, shall be produced by the executor or 
other person interested therein to the county court such court shall appoint a
time and place of bearing, and cause notice thereof to be given as required
by section 3787. If on the hearing it shall appear to the court that the order
or decree admitting such will to probate was made by a court of competent ju­
risdiction and is still in force, the copy and the probate thereof shall be filed
and recorded, and the will shall have the same force and effect as if it had
been originally proved and allowed in the same court. 
SEC. 3791. Whenever any will of real or per­
sonal estate shall be lost or destroyed by accident or design the county court
shall have power to take proof of the execution and validity of such will and 
to establish the same. The petition for the probate of such will shall set forth
the provisions thereof. The circuit court shall have the same power in an ac­
tion brought for that purpose. 
SEC. 3792. When a 'will shall have been duly
proved and allowed the county court shall issue letters testamentary thereon
to tho person named executor therein, if be is legally competent and shall ac­
cept the trust, and give bond as required by law. 
SEC. 3793. When any 
will shall be allowed as mentioned in section 3790 the county court shall grant
letters testamentary or letters of administration with the will annexed, except
in cases where it shall satisfactorily appear to the court that there are no debts
due from the testator or from his estate to parties residing in this state; and
such letters testamentary or letters of administration shall extend to all the
estate of the testator in this state; such estate, after the payment of the just
debts and expenses of administration, shall be disposed of according to such
will, so far as such will may operate upon it, and the residue shall be disposed
of as is provided by law in cases of estates in this state belonging to. persons 
who were inhabitants of any other stato or country; any such will when so
allowed in this state and the record thereof shall have the same effect upon
real estate situated in this state whether letters testamentary or of administra-
tion are issued or not. 
SEC. 3794. Every executor, be­
fore he shall enter upon the execution of his trust and before letters testa­
mentary shall issue, shall give a bond to the judge of the county court in such
sum as he may direct, with one or more sureties, with conditions as follows: 
1. To make and return to the county court, within three months, a true and
perfect inventory of all the goods, chattels, rights, credits and estate of the
deceased, whether disposed of by the will or not, which shall come to his pos­
session or knowledge or to the possession of any other person for him; 
2. To administer, accordingto law and the will of the testator, all his goods,
chattels, rights, credits and estate which shall at any time come to his posses­
sion or to the possession of any other person for him, and out of the same to
pay and discharge all debts, legacies and charges chargeable on the same or
such dividends thereon as shall be ordered and adjudged by the county court; 
3. To render a true and just account of his administration to the county
court within one year and at any other time when required by such court; 
4. To perform all orders and judgments of tbe county court.
When two or more persons sh~l be appointed executors of any will the 
county court may take a. separate bond from each, with sureties, or a joint
bond from all, with sureties. 
SEC. 3795. If the
executor shall be sole or residuary legatee instead of the bond prescribed in
the preceding section he may give a bond, in such sum and with such sureties
as the court may direct, with a condition only to pay all the debts and legacies
of the testator, and in such case he shall not be required to return an mven
tory. An executor named in any will may be exempt from giving bond, when
the testator has so ordered or requested in his will, unless the county court shall
order otherwise; and such court may require a bond, with sureties, of any such
executor at any time pending the settlement of the estate. 
SEC. 3796. If a person named
executor in any will shall refuse to accept the trust or shall, for the space of
twenty days after the probate of the same, neglect to give bond as required by
law, the county court may grant letters testamentary to the other executors
named in the will, if any, who are capable and will accept the trust and give
bond. If all named as executors neglect to qualify the court may commit ad­
ministration of the estate, with the will annexed, as provided in sections 3807 
and 3808. No person named as executor in any will, who neglects to qualify
for twenty days after probate thereof, shall intermeddle or act as such. 
SEC. 8797. When the person named·
executor in any will is under full age at the time of proving such will adminis­
tration shall be granted with the will annexed, during the minority of the exec­
utor, unless there shall be another executor named who shall accept the trust
and give a bond; and in such case the executor who shall give bond shall have
letters testamentary and shall administer the estate until the minor shall arrive
at full age, when he may be admitted as joint executor on giving the requisite·
bond. 
SEC. 3798. 
Every person who shall be appointed administrator with the will annexed shall;
before entering upon the execution of the trust, give bond to the judge of the
oounty court in the same manner and with the same conditions as is required
of an executor, and shall proceed in all things to execute the trust in the same­
manner as an executor would be required to do. 
SEC. SECTION 3799. When all the executors appointed in any will shall not
be authorized! according to the provisions of .this chapter, to act as such, su~h 
as are authorized shall Iiave the same authority to perform every act and dis·
charge every trust required and allowed by the will, and their acts shall be as
valid and effectual for every purpose as if all were authorized and should act
together; and administrators with the will annexed shall have the same au­
thority to perform every act and discharge every trust as the executors named
in the will would have had, and their acts shall be as valid and effectual for
every purpose. 
SEC. 3800. The executor of
an executor shall not as such have any authority to administer the estate of
the first testator, but on the death of the only surviving executor of any will 
administration of the estate of the first testator, not already administered, may
be granted with the will annexed to such person as the county court may judge
proper. 
SEC. 8801. When an executor or ad­
ministrator shall reside out of this state and it shall appear to the county court
having jurisdiction that it is necessary to serve upon such executor or admin­
istrator any order, notice or process from such court said court may, upon
proper affidavits showing such necessity, make an order that such service be
made by publication in the same manner and with the same effect as is pro­
vided for the service of summons upon non-resident defendants in an action
in the circuit court. 
SEC. 3803. If an administrator shall reside out of this
state or if an executor or administrator shall neglect, after due notice given 
by the county court, to render his account and settle the estate according to
law, or to perform any judgment of the court, or shall abscond or become in­
sane or otherwise incapable or unsuitable to discharge the-trust the county
court may remove such executor or administrator. 
SEC. 3804. When
an executor or administrator shall die, resign, be removed or his authoritr. shall
be extinguished in any way the remaining executor or administrator, tf any,
may execute the trust; if there shall be no other, the county court shall grant
administration of the estate not already administered, with the will annexed
or otherwise, as the case may require, but no executor or administrator shall
resign without the consent of the county [udgo indorsed on such resignation. 
SEC. 3805. The word "executor," in this and
other chapters relating to probate proceedings shall be construed to include
an administrator with the will annexed. 
SEC. 3806. When any person shall
die intestate, being an inhabitant of this state, letters of administration of his
estate shall be granted by the county court of the county of which be was an
inhabitant at the time of his death. If any person being a resident of any
other state or country shall die, leaving estate to be administered in this state,
administration thereof shall be cranted bv the county court of any countv in
which there shall be estate to be administered, and the administration ii rst
legally granted shall extend to all the estate of the deceased in this state. Ad­
ministration may also be granted upon the estate of any person who, at tho 
time of his death, was a party to any action pending in any court of record,
upon the application of any other party to such action, when it shall appear
necessary to protect the rights of the party so applying, whether such deceased
person was a resident of this state or not. 
SEC. 3807. Administration of the estates of intestates
shall be ~ranted to some one or more of the persons hereinafter mentioned, and 
they shall be respectively entitled to the same in the following order:
1. The widow, surviving husband, or next of kin, or both, as the county 
court may think proper, or such person as the widow, surviving husband or
next of kin may request to have appointed, if suitable and competent to dis­
charge the trust; 
2. 1f the widow, surviving husband or next of kin or the person selected by 
them shall be unsuitable or incompetent, or if the widow, surviving husband
and next of kin shall neglect for thirty days after the death of the intestate to
apply for administration or to request that administration be granted to some
other person, the same may be granted to one or more of the principal credit­
ors if any such a.re competent and willing to take it; 
3. If there be no widow, surviving husband, next of kin or creditor comp~
tent and willing to take administration the same may be committed to such
other person as the county court may think proper. 
4. If there be no application for administration by the widow, surviving hns­
band, next of kin or any creditor for sixtv days after the death of a.n.v person
then any one in whose favor a cause of "'action exists, which cannot be main­
tained without the appointment of an administrator of such deceased person,
may apply for and obtain the appointment of an administrator upon such show­
ing by petition to the county court.
SEC. 3808. When applica­
tion shall be made to any county court for the appointment of an administra­
tor on an intestate estate or for letters of administration with the will annexed
such court shall appoint a time and place for hearing such arplication, and
shall cause notice thereof to be given, by personal service on al persons inter­
ested, at least ten days before the day designated or by publication in a news­
paper as provided in section 4045, at least three weeks successively, previous
to the time appointed; and no general administrator shall be appolnted with­
out such notice.
SEC. SEOTioN 8809. Every administrator, before he enters upon
the execution of his trust and before letters of administration shall be granted
to him, shall give a bond to the judge of the county court, with such sureties
as the court shall approve, with substantially the same conditions as are re­
quired of executors by section 3794, with such variations only as may be nec­
essary to make it applicable to the case of an administrator. When two or
more persons shall be appointed administrators of any estate the county court
may take a separate bond from each, with sureties, or a joint bond from all,
with sureties.
SEC. 3810. When there shall be delay
in granting letters testamentary or of administration, occasioned by an appeal
from the allowance or disallowance of a will, or from any other cause, or
when it shal1 appear to the satisfaction of the court to be necessary, the county
court may appoint a special administrator to act until the matter causing the
delay shall be disposed of or the necessity therefor cease to exist and an exec­
utor or administrator is appointed. No appeal shall be allowed from the ap- 
pointment of such special administrator, and such special administrator may
be appointed without notice. 
SEC. 8811. Such special administrator
shall have power to collect all the goods, chattels and credits of the deceased
and, with leave of the court, to lease for a term not exceeding one year the
real property of the deceased, to care for, gather and secure crops, and do
such other things as the court shall direct and as may be deemed for the in­
terests of the estate, and preserve all the property of the deceased for the
executor or administrator who may afterward be appointed, and may for such.
purposes commence and maintain actions as an administrator, and sell such
personal property of the deceased as the court may direct. Such administrator
shall not be liable to an action by any creditor or to be called upon in any way
to pay the debts of the deceased. 
SEC. 3819. Every special administrator
shall, before entering upon the duties of his trust, give a bond to the judge of
the county court, as he shall direct, with condition that he will make and file
with the court a true inventory of all the goods, chattels, rights, credits and 
-effecta of the deceased which shall come to his possession or knowledge, and
that he will truly account for all of the same which shall be received by him,
whenever required by the county oourt, and will deliver the same to the per­
son who shall afterward be appointed executor or administrator of the de­ 
-ceased or to such person as shall be legally authorized to receive the same.
He shall be a1lowed all necessary expenses in the care and management of the
estate and for his services one dollar per day, and such further compensation
as the county court shall judge reasonable. 
SEC. 3813. Upon
granting letters testamentary or of administration on the estate of the deceased 
the power of the special administrator shall cease and he shall forth with de­
liver to the executor or administrator all the goods, chattels, moneys and
effects of the deceased in his hands; and the executor or administrator may be
admitted to prosecute to final judgment any action commenced by such special
administrator, and may have execution on any judgment recovered in the name 
-of the special administrator. 
SEC. 3813a. Whenever ·it
shall appear, b~v affidavit or verified petition, to the county court that an in­ 
habitant of such county has died, leaving no debts unpaid or that his estate
has been fully settled and the executor or administrator thereof haa been dis­
charged, and that any mortgage or judgment in favor of such deceased person
remains undischarged of record or any other act remains unperformed on the
part of such person the performance of which affects or is of importance to
petitioner or any other person the court may appoint a special administrator
for the purpose of releasing and discharging such mortgage or Judgment of
record or performing such other acts as may be deemed necessary m the prem­
ises. Upon the presentation of such petition or affidavit the court shall de­
termine whether notice of the hearing thereon shall be given, and if such no­
tice is ordered the order shall direct tbe manner and time of giving the same.
If the court shall deem notice of such hearing unnecessary it may proceed to
hear the matter without notice. If the court shall appoint a special admin­
istrator it shall in all cases1 where money or property may come into his hands,
require him to give a bona to the judge of said court in such sum, with such
conditions and with such surety or sureties as said court shall direct. The
order appointing such administrator shall require him to make to said court,
without delay, a full report of his acts as such. Upon the filing of such report
such further proceedings shall be had and such further order made in said
matter by said court as it shall deem necessary. Such special administrator
shall exercise no powers except those specially granted oy the order of said
court. When he shall have fully performed the act or acts mentioned in the
order appointing him his powers as such shall cease. The court may at any
time require the administrator to make a rerort of his acts as such or revoke
and vacate his appointment whenever it shal deem best. 
SEC. 8814. 
An administrator appointed in place of any former executor or administrator,
for the purpose of administering the estate not already administered, shall
have the same powers and shall proceed in settling the estate in the same man­
ner as the former executor or administrator won1d or should have done; and
may prosecute or defend any action commenced by or against the former ex­
ecutor or administrator, and may have execution on any judgment recovered
in the name of such former executor or administrator. 
SEC. 3815. If, after granting letters
of administration by any county court on the estate of any deceased person as
an intestate, a will of such deceased person shall be duly proved in and allowed
by said court such letters of administration shall be revoked by order of and
surrendered to said court; and the powers of the administrator shall cease, and
he shall thereupon render an account of his administration within such time as
the court shall direct. 
SEC. 8816. The executor of the 
will shall in such case be entitled to demand, sue for and collect all the goods,
chattels, rights and credits of the deceased remaining unadministered, and may 
be admitted to prosecute to final judgment any action commenced by the
administrator before the revocation of his authority, and may have execution
on any judgment recovered in the name of such administrator. 
SEC. 3817. AIJ aots of an executor or adminis­
trator as such, before the revocation of his letters testamentary or of adminis­
tration, shall be as valid to all intents and purposes as if snob executor or admin­
istrator had continued lawfully to execute the duties of his trust. 
SEC. 8818. The county court of each of the counties
in this state, when it shall deem the same advisable, may appoint some suitable
person to be known as the public administrator, who shall, before entering
upon the duties of such trust, be sworn to a faithful discharge thereof and shall
give bond, with sufficient sureties, to the judge of said court, in a sum not less
than five thousand dollars, with condition substantially like the conditions of
other administrators' bonds; which bond shall be approved bv the county court
and with the oath filed and recorded therein. Additional .. bonds may be re­
quired by the court in its discretion. 
SEC. 3819. When any
person shall die intestate, leaving property in this state, but leaving no widow, 
surviving husband or next of km, known to the county court, living therein,
or when any administrator of an estate, or executor of a will which has been
duly proved in this state, or guardian of the estate of any minor, insane or in­
competent person within this state shall resign his trust or refuse to act, or
when upon the final settlement of an estate by the administrator thereof or by
the executor of a will, and the assignment of the residue thereof there shall
be minor, insane or mentally incompetent heirs, devisees or legatees entitled
to such estate or any part thereof, and no person interested in such estate or
minor, insane or incompetent person shall, within thirty days after such resig­
nation or refusal to act or within thirtv davs after such final settlement and
assignment, apply to the proper county court for the appointment of an ad­
ministrator or guardian the county court having: jurisdiction of such estate or
of such minor, msane or incompetent person or ms estate shall, upon its own
motion or upon the application of the public administrator, if such court shall
deem necessary, grant administration of such estate or guardianship of the es­
tate of such minor, insane or incompetent person to the public administrator,
and it shall thereupon be lawful for the public administrator to take possession
of the property and effects of the intestate, testator or minor, or insane or in­
competent person and protect and preserve the same and to proceed with the
administration of such estates and with the care and management of the estate
of such minor, insane or incompetent person, as the case may require, until ad­
ministration or letters of guardianship thereon shall, upon proper application
of some person entitled to apply therefor, be granted to some other person. If 
such intestate, testator or minor, insane or incompetent person be a non-resi­
dent administration or guardianship of his estate shall be granted to the publio
administrator of the county where the property may be found. Such admin­
istration or guardianship may be revoked at any time upon the appointment.
and qualification of an administrator or guardian upon application of any per­
son lawfully entitled to apply therefor or when for any other cause the court
shall deem it Just or expedient; but such revocation shall not impair the public
administrators rights to receive from the estate his legal charges and disburse­
ments, to be determined by- the county court. Such estates shall be adminis­
tered by the public admimstrator in the same manner as other estates, except
as otherwise provided herein. 
SEC. 3820. 
The state treasurer, upon the receipt of any money from a public administra­
tor, shall forthwith advertise the fact in the state paper by giving the name
of the deceased, the time and place of his death, the amount paid into the treas­
ury, tbe public administrator paying the same and that the same will be paid
to the heirs who had not before asserted claims thereto, without interest, on
proof of heirship, if applied for within five years from date of publication.
The provisions of this and the two next preceding sections shall not apply to
Milwaukee county.
SEC. 3821. Every executor or admin­
istrator shall, within three months after his appointment, make and return
into the county court a true inventory of the real estate and of all the goods,
chattels, rights and credits of the deceased which shall come to his possession
or knowledge, except that an executor who shall be a residuary legatee and
shall have given bond to pay all the debts and legacies, as provided by section
3795, shall not be required to return an inventory. The estate and effects
comprised in the inventory shall be appraised by two or more disinterested
persons, appointed by the conntv court for that purpose, who shall be sworn
to a faithful discharge of their duty. The appraisers shall set down opposite
to each item in such inventory, in plain figures, the value thereof in money,
and deliver the same, certified by them, to the executor or administrator. A
separate and distinct inventory and appraisement shall be made of all the
household furniture and other personal. property which may be allowed the
widow, pursuant to the provisions of subdivision one of section 8935, but the
same shall not be assets in the hands of the executor or administrator. Where
the ~tate is situated in two or more counties appraisers may be appointed by
the court in each county. 
SEC. 382la. The surviving
partner of any deceased person whose estate is being administered in the
county court shall, whenever required by order of the county judge of the 
county in which such administration is pending, render to said court a true
and complete inventory of the partnership property and estate of the firm and 
its outstanding liabilities. Any person who shall refuse or neglect to comply
with any such order for twenty days after the service of a copy of said order
upon him, by filing such inventory, verified by his oath as a true and perfect
account of the affairs of the firm of which the deceased was a member, shall
be deemed to have committed a contempt of court and may, by order, be
brought before said court or the judge thereof and punished in the manner 
provided by law, and may be imprisoned until he shall comply with such order.
SEC. 8822. The personal
estate of the deceased which shall come into the hands of the executor or ad­
ministrator shall be first chargeable with the pavment of the debts and ex­
penses; and if the goods, chattels, rights and credits in the hands of the executor
or administrator shall not be sufficient to pay the debts of the deceased and
the expenses of administration the whole of his real estate, except the widow's
dower and the homestead, or so much thereof as may be necessary, may be
sol<l for that purpose by the executor or administrator, after obtaining license
therefor in the manner provided by chapter 167. 
SEC. 3823. The executor or adminis­
trator shall have a right to the possession of all the real as well as personal
estate of the deceased, except the homestead, and may receive the rents, issues
and pro Ii ts of the real estate, except the homestead, until the estate shall have
been settled or until delivered over, by order of the county court, to the heirs
or devisees, and shall keep in good tenantable repair all houses, buildings and
fences thereon which are under his control. 
SEC. 3824. If any person, before the granting of
letters testamentary or of administration, shall embezzle or convert to his own
use any of the moneys, goods, chattels or effects of any deceased person such
person· shall stand chargeable and be liable to an action by the executor or ad­ 
ministrator of such estate for double the value of the property so embezzled
or converted, to be recovered for the benefit of such estate. 
SEC. 3825. If 
anv executor or administrator, heir, legatee, creditor or other person interested
in the estate of any deceased person shall complain to the county court on oath
that any person is suspected to have concealed, embezzled, conveyed a.way or
disposed of any money, goods or chattels of the deceased or that any person
has in his possession or has knowledge of any deeds, conveyances, bonds, con­
tracts or other writings which contain evidence of or tend to disclose the right, title, interest or claim of the deceased to any real or personal estate, or any
claim or demand, or any last will and testament of the deceased, the said court
may cite such suspected person to appear before it and may examine him on
oath upon the matter of such complaint. 
SEC. 3826. 
If the person so cited shall refuse to appear and submit to such examination
or to answer such interrogatories as may be put to him touching the matter
of such complaint the court may, by warrant for that purpose, commit him to
the common jail of the county, there to remain in close custody until he shall
submit to the order of the court; all such interrogatories and answers shall
be in wri~ing and shall be signed by the party examined and filed with the
court. 
SEC. 8827. The county court, upon the
comrlaint on oath of any executor or administrator, may cite any person who 
shal have been intrusted by such executor or administrator witb any part
of the estate of a deceased person to appear before such court, and may re­ 
quire such person to render a full account, on oath, of any money, goods, chat­
tels, bonds, accounts or other papers belonging to such estate whioli shall have
come to his possession in trust for such executor or administrator, and of his
proceedings thereon. If the person so cited shall refuse to appear and render
such account the court may proceed against him as provided in the preceding section.
SEC. 3828. When any debtor of a deceased
person shall be unable to pay all his debts the executor or administrator, with
the approval of the county court, may com pound with such debtor and give
him a discharge upon receiving a fair and just dividend of his effects. 
SEC. 8829. When any
mortga;ee of real estate or any assignee of any mortgage of real estate shall 
die without having foreclosed the right of redemption all the interest in the mort­
gaged premises conveyed by such mortgage and the debt secured thereby shall 
be considered as personal assets in the hands of the executor or administrator,
and he may foreclose the same and have any other remedy for the collection
of such debt which the deceased could have had if living or may continue any
proceeding commenced by the deceased for that purpose.
SEC. SEOTION 8830. In case of the redemrtion of any 
such mortgage or the sale of the mortgaged premises by virtue o a. power of
sale contained therein, or otherwise, the money paid thereon shall be received
by the executor or administrator and he shall thereupon give all necessary re­
leases and receipts; and if upon the sale of the mortgaged premises the same
shall be bid in by the executor or administrator for sucli debt he shall be seized
of the same for the same persons, whether creditors, next of kin or others,
who would have been entitled to the money if the premises had been redeemed 
or purchased at such sale by some other person.
SEC. 3831. Any real estate so held.
by an executor or ad.ministrator or which may be purchased by him as such 
upon a sale on execution for the recovery of a debt due the estate may be sold
for the pavment of debts or legacies and the charges of administration in the
same manner and with like effect a.s is prescribed in section 8268.
SEC. 3832. When there
shall be a deficiency of assets in the hands of an executor or administrator 
and when the deceased shall in his life-time have conveyed any real estate or
any right or interest therein, with intent to defraud his creditors or to avoid
any right, debt or duty, or shall have so conveyed such estate that by law the
deeds or conveyances are void as against creditors the executor or adminis­
trator may and it shall be his duty to commence and prosecute to final judO'­
ment any proper action for the recovery of the same, and may recover for tGe
benefit of the creditors all such real estate so fraudulently conveyed, and may
also, for the benefit of creditors, take possession of 01· sue for an"d recover all 
goods, chattels, rights or credits which may have been so fraudulently con­
veyed by the deceased in his life-time, whatever may have been the manner of 
such fraudulent conveyance. 
SEC. 8838. No executor or administrator
shall be bound to sue for such estate as mentioned in the preceding section for 
the benefit of creditors except on the application of creditors, nor unless the
creditor making the application shall pay such part of the costs and expenses 
or give such security to the executor or administrator therefor as the county
court shall ~eem just and equitable. 
SEC. 3834. All real estate so recovered
as provided in section 3832 shall be sold for the payment of debts in the same
manner as if the deceased had died seized thereof, upon obtaining license there­
for from the county court; and the proceeds of all goods, chattels, rights and
credits recovered as aforesaid shall be appropriated to pay the debts of the
deceased in the same manner as other assets in the hands of the executor or
administrator. 
SEC. 3835. Whenever there shall be
just reason to apprehend that the estate of a deceased person, as set forth in 
the inventory returned into court by his executor or administrator, may be in­
sufficient to pay the debts of the testator or intestate any one or more of the
judgment creditors or creditors whose claims against the deceased shall have
been allowed by the county court or commissioners appointed by said court
may, on behalf of all, bring an action in the circuit court to reach and subject
to sale any real estate or interest therein or any other assets, not included in
such inventory, which, according to law, ought to be subjected to the payment 
of such debts. 
SEC. 8836. Such creditor's action
shall not be brought to trial until the sufficiency or the insufficiency of the estate
in the hands of tbe executor or administrator to pay the debts of the deceased
shall be ascertained; if found sufficient such action shall be dismissed at the
cost of the plaintiff; if found insufficient such action may proceed to trial and
judgment, and any property described in the complaint which ought bv law
to tie subjected to the payment of the debts of the deceased shall be sold under
the order of such circuit court; and the proceeds, after paying costs, shall be­
applied to the payment of such debts in the same manner as other assets.
SEC. 8887. The county court, on the ap­
plication of the executor or administrator, may at any time order the personal
estate of any deceased person to be sold at public or private sale, when it shall
appear to be necessary for the purpose of paying debts, legacies, expenses of
administration, or for the preservation of the property, or when it shall be re­ 
quested by all the heirs residing in this state: or the court may order such
personal property to be sold at public or private sale as the executor or ad­
ministrator may find most beneficial. If the order be to sell at auction the
court shall direct the mode of giving notice of the time and place of sale. 
SEC. 3838. On granting letters testamentary
or of administration by any county court it shall be the duty of such oourt to
receive, examine and adjust the claims and demands of all persons against the
deceased. 
SEC. 3841. When a creditor
against whom the deceased had claims shall present a claim to the county court 
the executor or administrator shall exhibit the claims of the deceased in offset
to the claims of the creditor, and the court shall ascertain and allow the bal­
ance against or in favor of the estate as the same shall be found; but no claim
barred by the statute of limitations shall be allowed by the court in favor of
or against the estate, as a set-off or otherwise. And no claim shall be allowed
by said court against said estate, as a set-off or otherwise, the consideration of
which shall be the sale at retail under license issued after the enactment of
this aviendment of any ardent, malt, spirituous or intoxicating liquors. 
SEC. 3842. At the expiration of the time
limited for creditors to present their claims against the deceased, or as soon
thereafter as practicable, the court shall in writing make a statement embrac­
ing lists of the claims presented against the deceased and those exhibited in
offset and stating how much was allowed and how much disallowed in each 
case, together with the final balance, whether in favor of the creditor or the 
estate; and the same shall be recorded and stand as the judgment of the court.
If the balance is in favor of the estate the collection thereof may be enforced
by execution.
SEC. 3848. The court shall have
power to try and decide upon all claims which by law survive against or in
favor of executors .and administrators, except claims for the possession of or title to real estate, and ma v examine and allow all demands, at the then present 
value thereof, which may be payable at a future day, including claims pavable 
in specific articles, and may offset such demands in the same manner m favor
of the estate; but this shall not prevent anv executor or administrator from
paying any debts which shall be payable· at a future day, according to the 
terms and at the time specified in the contract. 
SEC. 8844. Every person having a claim
against a deceased person, proper to be allowed by the court, who shall not, 
after notice given as required by section 3889, exhibit his claim to the court
within the time limited for t~at purpose shall be forever barred from recover­
ing such demand or from setting off the same in any action whatever. 
SEC. 3845. No action shall be com­
menced against an executor or administrator, excepting actions for the recov­
ery of specific real or personal property or actions to establish, enforce or 
foreclose a lien or right of lien on real or personal property. Nor shall any
attachment or execution be issued against tho estate of the deceased or the
executor or administrator thereof until the expiration of the time limited for
the payment of debts, except as provided in sections 2751 and 2978. Noth­
ing m this section shall prevent any person having a lawful claim against a 
· deceased person from bringing an action therefor against the executor, ad­
ministrator, heir, devisee or legatee of such deceased person, when no time
has been fixed in which creditors may present their claims against the de­ 
ceased for allowance or when no notice of such limitations has been ordered
or given. 
SEC. 3846.
All actions which may be pending against a deceased person at the time of
his death may, if the cause of action survive, be prosecuted to final judgment, 
and the executor or administrator may be admitted to defend the same, as pro­
vided in chapter 127. If any judgment shall be rendered against the executor
or administrator the court rendering it shall certify the same to the county
court; and the amount thereof shall be paid in the same manner as other
claims duly allowed against the estate, except as provided in the preceding  section. 
SEC. 3847. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent an executor or
administrator from commencing and prosecuting any action against any other
person or from prosecuting any action commenced by the deceased in his life­ 
time for the recovery of any debt or claim to final judgment, or from having
execution on any judgment. In such case the defendant may set off any claim
he may have against the deceased, instead of presenting it to the court or
commissioners, and all mutual claims may be set off in such action. If judg­
ment shall be rendered in favor of the defendant the same shall be certified
by the court rendering it to the county court and be considered the true bal­
ance, and paid as other claims allowed a.gainst the estate. 
SEC. When two or
more persons shall be indebted on any joint contract or upon a judgment 
founded on a joint contract and either of them shall die his estate shall be lia­
ble therefor, and the claim may be allowed by the court as if the contract had
been joint and several or as if the judgment had been against him alone, and
the other parties to such joint contract may be compelled to contribute or to
pay the same if they would have been liable to do so upon payment thereof
by the deceased. 
SEC. 38-19. 
Within sixty days after the expiration of the time limited for creditors to pre­
sent their claims every executor or administrator shall render an account ot 
his administration to the county court, and such court shall thereuron direct
the executor or administrator to proceed forthwith to the payment o the debts
and to a final settlement of the estate in the manner prescribed by law unless 
it shall satisfactorily arpear to the court:
1. That the persona assets in the hands of the executor or administrator 
are insufficient to pay the debts of the deceased and that there ia real estate
that can be mortgaged, leased or sold to pay such debts; 
2. That an appeal has been taken from some action of the countv court or
commissioners, which is still pending and necessarily delays the settlement of 
the estate;
3. That collectible debts due the estate have not been collected;
4. That a contingent claim has been allowed against the estate of the deceased 
and that the final settlement of the estate is necessarily delayed thereby; or
5. That some other good and sufficient cause for delay exists. 
SEC. 3850. Whenever it
shall satisfactorily appear to the county court that any one or more of the 
causes for delay mentioned in the preceding section exists such court shall, by
order, fix a time within which the executor or administrator shall eay the debts
and legacies and make a final settlement of the estate and of his account as
executor or administrator; but such time shall in no case exceed twelve months,
except when granted upon the petition of the executor or administrator, under
oath, setting forth the assets remaining in his possession belonging to the estate
of the deceased, the debts and legacies that remain un{>aid, the reasons why
the delay in the settlement of the estate prayed for is necessary, and what
additional time is deemed requisite for a full settlement of such estate, and
upon notice to all parties interested of the time and place of hearing such peti­
tion given by publication for three successive weeks before the day of hearing
in a newspaper as provided in section 4045, or in such other manner as the
court may direct. On such hearing the court may, in its diaoretion, grant such
further time for the payment of the debts and legacies and the settlement of
the estate as the nature of the case may require and may again extend the
time upon like petition and notice; but in no case shall the time be extended
beyond six years from the time of granting letters testamentary or of admin­
istration. 
SEC. 3851. When an execu­
tor or administrator shall die or become incapable of discharging his trust and 
another administrator of the same estate shall be appointed the county court
may for cause shown, without notice, extend the time for the payment of the
debts and legacies and the settlement of the estate for six months beyond the
time allowed the original executor or administrator, and mav extend the time
for a longer period, upon petition and notice as required in the preceding seo- 
tion; but in no .case shall the extended time exceed six months beyond the
time limited in the preceding section.
SEC. 3852.- If, after the amount of the claims against any
'estate shall have been ascertained by the court, it shall appear that the execu­ 
tor or administrator has in his possession sufficient to pay all the debts he shall
pav the same in full within the time limited for that purpose. If the assets
received by the executor or administrator, and which can be appropriated to
the payment of debts, shall not be sufficient he shall, after paying necessary
expenses of administration, pay the debts against the estate in the following 
order: 
1. The necessa rv funeral expenses;
2. The expenses of the last sickness;
3. Debts having a preference under the laws of the United States;
4. Debts due to other creditors.
If there shall not be assets enough to pay all the debts of any one class each 
creditor shall be paid a dividend in proportion to his claim; and no creditor of
any one class shall receive any payment until all of those of the preceding class
shall be fully paid. 
SEC. 3853. After the time limited for
creditors to present their claims has expired and the amount of the indebted­
ness of the deceased has been ascertained bv the court such court shall make
an order or judgment for the payment of the debts of the deceased, in whole 
or in part, out of the a.ssets in the hands of the executor or administrator for
that purpose, as the circumstances of the estate shall require. 
SEC. 3854. If an appeal
has been taken from the decision of the court in respect to any claim and shall
remain undetermined the county court may suspend the order or judgment for 
the payment of debts mentioned in the preceding section or may order the
payment in whole or in part of the claims that have been allowed and from
which no appeal has been taken, leaving in the hands of the executor or ad­
ministrator sufficient assets to make a Iike payment upon the claims disputed
and pending upon appeal When the disputed claims shall have been finally 
· settled the county court shall order the same to be paid out of the assets re­
tained to the same extent and in the same proportion as the claims of the other
creditors. 
SEC. 3855. If the whole of the debts shall not ·
have been paid in full under the first order or judgment of the court for that _
P.urpose and if the whole assets applicable thereto shall not have been used, or 
. 1f other assets shall afterward come to the hands of the executor or adminis­
trator that ought to be used in paying debts, the court may from time to time,
according to the circumstances of the case, make further orders or judgments 
. for the payment of the debts.
SEC. 3856. Whenever an order or judgment
shall have been made by the county court for the payment of the debts in 
whole or in part the executor or administrator, after the time fixed for the
payment shall arrive, shall be personally liable to the creditors for their debts 
or the dividend thereon as for bis own debt; and he shall be liable on his bond,
and the same may be put in action on the application of a creditor whose debt
or dividend shall not be paid as above mentioned. 
SEC. 3857. 
When the time for paying the debts of a deceased person shall be finally lim­
ited by order of the countv court, whether the estate be solvent or insolvent,
tho court may, on the application of the executor or administrator, by order
cause notice to be given to the creditors of the time fixed for the payment of
such debts by publication in a newspaper as provided in section 4045, for three
successive weeks or in such other manner as the court may direct. If, after
such notice shall have been given, any creditor shall ne~lect to demand from
the executor or administrator his debt or the dividend thereon, within two
years from the time so limited for the payment of debts, or if the notice shall
be given after such time, within two years from the last publication, the olaim
of such creditor shall be forever barred. 
SEC. 3858. If any person shall be liable as secu­
rity for the deceased or have any other contingent claim against his estate
which cannot be proved as a debt before the court, or allowed by them, the
same may be presented, with the proper proof1 to the court, and they shall
embrace the same in a statement as provided m section 3842. If the court
shall be satisfied by the proof exhibited it may order the executor or admin­
istrator to retain in his hands sufficient estate to pay such oontingent claim
when the same shall become absolute; or if the estate shall be insolvent, suffi­
cient to pay a percentage thereof equal to the dividends of the other creditors. 
SEC. 3859. If such contingent claim shall
become absolute and shall be presented to the county court at any time within
two years from the time limited for other creditors to present their claims it
may be allowed by such court, upon due proof, in the satne manner as other
claims presented for allowance within the time limited for that purpose. If
such contingent claim shall be allowed as herein provided or established on
appeal the creditor shall be entitled to receive payment thereon to the same
extent as other creditors if the estate retained by the executor or administrator
shall be sufficient for that purpose. 
SEC. 3860. If the
claim of any person shall accrue or become absolute at any time after the time
limited for creditors to present their claims the person having such claim may
present it to the county court and prove the same at any time within one year
after it shall accrue or become absolute, and if established in the manner pro­
vided in this chapter the executor or administrator shall be required to pay it,
if he shall have sufficient assets for that purpose, and shall be required to pay
such part as he shall have assets to pay; and if real or personal estate shall
afterward come to his possession he shall be required to pay such claim or such
part thereof as he may have assets sufficient to pay, not exceeding the propor­
tions of other creditors, in such time as the county court may prescribe.
SEC. 3861. When a claim shall be pre­
sented within one year from the time when it shall accrue and be established
as mentioned in the preceding section, and the executor or administrator shall
not have sufficient assets to pay the whole of such claim the creditor shall have 
a. right to recover such part of his claim as the executor or administrator bas
not assets to pay against the heirs, devisees or legatees who shall have received
sufficient real and personal property from the estate that was liable for the
payment of the debts of the deceased, 
SEC. 3862. All the
estate of the testator or intestate, real and personal, except the homestead of 
the deceased and the propertv disposed of under the provisions of section 3935, 
shall be liable to be disposed "of for the payment of his debts and the expenses
bf administering his estate; but if a testator shall make provision by his will
or designate therein the estate to be appropriated for the payment of his debts,
the expenses of administration or family expenses thev shall be paid accord­
ingly and out of the estate thus appropriated so far as the same may be suffi­
cient; but no general direction in any will to pay the debts of the testator out
of his property shall subject the homestead to the payment thereof. 
SEC. 3863. If the provis­
ions made by the will or the estate appropriated shall not be sufficient to pav 
the debts, expenses of administration and family expenses such part of the es­
tate, real or personal, as shall not have been disposed of by the will, if any,
shall be first appropriated as provided by law for that purpose. 
SEC. 3864. The estate, real and per­
sonal, given by will to any devisees or legatees, when required for that pur­ 
pose, shall be held liable for the payment of debts, expenses of administration
and family expenses in proportion to the amount of the several devises or lega­
eies ; except that specific devises and legacies, and the person to whom they
shall be made, may be exempted if there shall be other sufficient estate and 1t 
shall appear to the court necessary in order to carry into effect the intention
of the testator. 
SEC. 3865. When the estate given by any will shall be liable for the pay­
ment of debts and expenses as mentioned in the preceding section or is liab1e
to be taken to make up the share of a child born after the execution of the
":ill, o! of a ~hild or the is_sue of a, child not provided for in the will, as pro­ 
vided in sections 228f>, 228, and 22:-58, the executor shall have the right to re­
tain the possession of the same until such liability shall be settled by order of
the county court and until the devises and legacies so liable shall be accord- 
ingly [as]signed by order of such court; and when the same can be properly
done any devisee or legatee may make his claim to such court to ha.ve such
liability settled and his devise or legacy assigned to him.
SEC. 8866. All the devisees
or legatees who shall, with the consent of the executor or otherwise, have pos­ 
session of the estate given to them by will, before such liability shall be settled
by the county court, shall hold the same subject to the several liabilities men­
tioned in the preceding section and shall be held to contribute, according to
their respective liabilities, to the executor or to any devisee or legatee from
whom the estate devised or bequeathed to him may have been taken for the
payment of debts or expenses or to make up the share of a child born after the
making of the will, or of a child or the issue of a. child omitted in the will; and
the rersons who may, as heirs, have received the estate, not disposed of by will,
shal be liable to contribute among themselves in like manner as the devisees
or legatees. 
SEC. 8867. If any person
liable to contribute according to the provisions of the preceding seotton shall
be insolvent and unable to pay his share the others shall be severally liable for
the loss occasioned by such insolvency in proportion to, and to the extent of,
the estate they may have received; and if any of the persons so liable to con­
tribute shall die before having paid his share the claim shall be valid against
his estate in the same manner as if it had been his proper debt. 
SEC. 3868. The county court may, by judgment
for that purpose, settle the amount of the several liabilities as provided m the
preceding sections and adjudge how much a.nd in what manner each {>erson
shall contribute, and may issue execution to enforce its judgment as oircum­
stances may require. The claimant may also have a remedy by any proper
action.
SEC. 8869. When a widow is entitled to·
dower in lands of which her husband died seized and her right to dower is not
disputed by the heirs or devisees or any person claiming under them or either
of them, it may be assigned to her in whatever counties the lands may lie by
the oounty court for the county in which the estate of her husband is being
settled, uron petition of the widow or any other person interested in the lands.
Notice o the time and place of hearing such petition shall be given to such
heirs, devisees or other persons in such manner as said court shall direct. 
SEC. 3870. For the purpose of assigning suoh dower
the county court shall issue its warrant to three discreet and disinterested per­
sons authorizing and requiriag them to set off the dower by metes and bounds
when it can be done witbout mjury to the whole estate. Such commissioners
shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of their duties and as soon as practi­
cable shall set off the dower according to the command of such warrant and
make return of their doings, with an account of their charges and expenses in
writing to the county court; and the same, being approved and recorded and
an attested copy thereof recorded in the office or the register of deeds in the
county where the lands are situated, the dower shall remain fixed and certain
unless such approval be set aside or reversed on appeal. One-half of the costs
of such proceeding shall be paid by the widow and the other half by the ad­ 
verse party. 
SEC. 3871. When the estate out of which
dower is to be assigned consists of a mill or other tenement which cannot be
divided without damage to the whole and in all cases where the estate cannot
be divided by motes and bounds the dower may be assigned of the rents, issues
and profits thereof, to be had and received by the widow as a tenant in com­
mon with the other owners of the estate. 
SEC. 3872. When a widow is entitled to
dower in land of whioh her husband died seized she may continue to occup,v
the same, with the children or other heirs of the deceased, or may receive one­
third part of the rents, issues and profits thereof so long as the heirs or others
interested do not object, without having the dower assigned. 
SEC. 3873. When a widow, heir
or devisee is entitled to the homestead of which her husband, the testator or 
intestate, died seized, and the right of the widow, heir or devisee thereto is not
disputed by the heirs, devisees, creditors or any person claiming under them or
either of them, and the widow, heirs, devisees and the creditors or other persons
in interest are unable to agree as to the limits and boundaries thereof, the same
may be assigned to the widow, heir or devisee in the same manner and with
like effect and upon like notice and proceedings that are required by this chap- ·
ter upon the assignment of dower, and the costs shall be paid in the same
manner. The heirs of any deceased person, who might have exercised the
right of selecting a homestead had he lived, may exercise the same right, and
if they are minors or under other disability such right may be exercised for
them by their guardian or by the judge of the county court in such manner
as will be most beneficial for them. 
SEC. 3873a. No debt of or claim against
any deceased person, which was not a lien upon the real estate of such deced­
ent before his death, shall be a lien upon or valid claim against any such real
estate in this state for the payment of which such real estate can be sold by
an executor or administrator after three years from the death of such deced­
ent, or when such debt or claim shall become due and payable subsequent to 
the death of said decedent, then such debt or claim shall cease to be a lien on
such real estate after three years from the time it shall become due and pay-
able excepting in the following cases: · 
1. Wben such claim is created or charged upon such real estateby some
provision in a will. 
2. When letters testamentary upon the will or of administration of the es­
ta te of suoh decedent have been dulv issued in this state within snob three
vears and such claim is duly presented to the county court appointed by the
court from which such letters are issued. 
3. When delay in issuiuz such letters is caused by any appeal from the
county court which suspen8s the proceedings therein the time of such delay
shall not be counted as any part of said three years. 
SEC. 3873b. When
any person shall die intestate, seized of an estate of inheritance in any lands 
in this state and leaving no personal property in this state which would be
proper assets in the hands of an administrator for the payment of debts after
six months from the death of such decedent, and in any case in which admin­
istration shall not have been granted in this state after three years from the
death of such decedent, any heir or grantee of any heir of such decedent en­ titled to any interest in such lands may apply to the county court of the county
in which such decedent was last resident, or if such decedent was not an in­
habitant of this state, to the county court of any county in which such lands
or some part thereof are situated, to determine the descent of such lands. 
fiuch application shall be by a verified petition which shall show, as particu­ 
larlv as known or can be with due diligence ascertained, the time and place of
death and last place of residence of such decedent, and the other facts which 
authorize the proceeding according to the provisions of the last precedin~ sec­
tion; the names, residences and relationship to the decedent of all the heirs
and their grantees entitled to anv interest in said lands, stating who, if any,
are minors or under legal disabilities, and the names and residences of their 
gaardians, if any in this state, and a description of all such lands. 
SEC. 8873c. The court shall, by order, fix a time and
place of hearing such petition at a term of such court, not less than six weeks
from the date of such order, and cause notice thereof to be given by publica­
tion at least three successive weeks, once in each week, as provided in section
4045, by personal service on all of said heirs and guardians residing in this state
at least twenty days before such hearing, and by mailing copies of such peti­
tion and notice to all said heirs residing out of this state, whose residence is
known or can with due diligence be ascertained, at least six weeks before said
hearing; but no such personal notice or mailing shall be required to any per­
son of full age wh? shall, by writing indorsed on such petition or a copy thereof
attested by one witness and acknowledged before a clerk. of a court of record
or notary publio, or signed in open court before the county judge, consent that
such petition be granted. All such publications heretofore made under sec­
tion 3873a of the annotated statutes, whether such notices were published once
in each week for three successive weeks or daily for three successive weeks, are
hereby legalized and shall be effective in either event. 
SEC. 8878d. At or before the
time fixed for the hearing any person interested may appear and answer such
petition and set up any proper defense to the same or any part thereof or in­ 
tervene to assert and protect any interest he may have. If 1t shall appear that
any person interested has not been duly notified or appeared the hearing may
be continued to give the proper notice. Before any testimony is taken a
guardian ad litem shall be appointed and appear for any minor interested for
whom no general guardian appears. 
SEC. 8873e. Any question as to ad­
vancement in real estate a1leged to have been made by such decedent to any
heir may be heard and determined by the county court as upon the assign­
ment of the residue of a settled estate. After hearing the evidence, if it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the court who are all the heirs of such decedent
and what are the respective rights and interests of the parties in the title of
such decedent in such lands, the court shall, by its judgment, rind and deter­
mine the same and in such judgment shall name the persons entitled to inter­
ests therein and the part to which each shall be entitled. 
SEC. 387:if. A certified copy of such judg­
ment may be recorded in the office of the register of deeds of any county in 
which any such lands are situated, and such Judgment or the record thereof
shall be presumptive evidence of the facts found and determined therein in all
courts and places and conclusive evidence against the persons notified or con­
senting as aforesaid or appearing in such proceedings and those claiming under
them. 
SEC. 387 4. When the personal estate of any de­
ceased person in the hands of his executor or administrator shall be insufficient
to pay all his debts, with charges of administration, his executor or adminis­
trator may mortgage, lease or sell his real estate (except the homestead when
it is not subject to the debts and liabilities of the deceased owner) for that
purpose on obtaining a. license therefor and proceeding therein in the manner
provided in this chapter. 
SEC. 3875. In order to obtain such license
the executor or administrator shall present a petition verified by himself to the
county court from which he reoeived his appointment, setting forth the amount
of personal estate that has come to bis hands and how much thereof, if any,
remains undisposed of; the amount of the debts outstanding azainst the de­
ceased, so far as the same can be ascertained; a description of all the real estate
of which the testator or intestate died seized and the condition and value of the
respective parcels thereof; and the names of the heirs, designating those that
are minors, if any, and if there be unknown heirs, stating the fact. 
SEC. 3876. If it shall appear by such petition that
the personal estate in the hands of the executor or administrator is insuffioient
to pay the debts of the deceased and the expenses of the administration and
that it is necessary to sell or incumber the whole or part of the real estate for
the payment thereof, the county court shall make an order fixing the time and
place, to be therein named, not less than four nor more than nine weeks from
the time of making such order, when and where !ttch petition will be heard. 
SEC. 3877. Every such order or notice of such
hearing, in the form and manner prescribed in section 4050, shall be published 
at least three successive weeks before the day fixed for a bearing, in a news­
paper as yrovided in section 4045; and a copy thereof shall be served person­
ally on al persons interested in the estate and residing in the county in which
such application is made, at least twenty days before such day, and on the at.
torneys of all persons who have appeared in the proceedings therein in the
same manner as notices and papers are served in'the circuit courts; but the
notice may be dispensed with if all persons interested in the estate shall signify
in writing "their assent to such mortgage, lease or sale.
SEC. 3878. If it shall appear to the county
court by the petition or other competent evidence that any: person interested 
in such estate is a minor and has no general guardian residing in the county
or is an unknown person, the court shall, at or before the time of making the
order for hearing the petition, appoint some disinterested freeholder of said
county guardian of such minor or unknown person for the sole purpose of ap·
pearing for him and taking care of his interest in the proceedings, and the
service of all orders and notices shall be made on such special guardian. If
such minor shall have a. general guardian in the county such general guardian
shall appear and take care of the interest of such mmor, and all orders and
notices required to be served shall be served on suoh general guardian. 
SEC. 3879. The county court at the time and
place appointed in such order or at such other time and place as the bearing shall 
be adjourned to, upon proof of the due service and publication of such order
or notice or upon tiling the consent in writing to such mortgage, lease or sale
of all the persons interested, shall proceed to the hearing on such petition, anti
if such consent be not filed shall hear and examine the allegations and proofs
of the petitioner and all persons interested in the estate who shall think proper
to oppose the application. The parties and witnesses may be examined on 
either side. 
SEC. 3SSO. If on such hearing it shall appear to
the court that the heirs or devisees of the real estate in question or any person
claimingunder them wish to contest the validity of any debt or claim which
may be represented as existing against the testator or intestate he shall be
allowed to do so and to set up the statute of limitations in bar of such claim;
and the admission of any such claims, so barred, by an executor or administra­
tor shall not be deemed to revive the same so as in any way to affeot the real 
estate of said deceased; and the hearing on suoh petition shall be postponed
until the liability of the estate for such claim is finally determined. 
SEC. 8881. The court shall make no order for
the mortgaging, leasing or sale of the real property of the deceased until upon
examination it shall appear to said court: 
1. That the executor or administrator making such application has fully com-
plied with the preceding provisions of this chapter; · 
2. That the debts for the purpose of satisfyingwhich the application is made
are justly due and owing; 
3. That the personal estate of the deceased is insufficient for the payment of
such debts. 
SEC. 8882. When the
facts mentioned in the preceding section shall be established to the satisfaction
of the county court said court shall next ascertain whether sufficient money to
pay such debts can be raised by mortgaging or leasing the real property of the
deceased or any part thereof. If it appear that money can be so raised ad·
vantageously to such estate the court shall direct a mortgage or lease to be
made for that purpose. No lease shall be made for the purpose aforesaid unless
some of the persons interested in the real estate of the deceased to be leased
shall be under the age of twenty-one years; nor shall such lease be for a longer
time than until the youngest person interested in the real estate leased shall
have become twenty-one/ears of age. Such lease or mortgage, when made as
aforesaid, shall be as vali and effectual as if executed by tlie testator or intes-
tate while in life. 
SEC. 8883. If it shall ap­ 
pear to the county court that the money required cannot be raised by mort­
gage or lease, advantageously to the estate, the court. shall make an order
authorizing the executor or administrator to sell so much of the real estate of
the testator or intestate as shall be s_ufficient to pay the debts left unyaid after
the personal estate of the deceased is exhausted; but no order shal be made
for mortgaging, leasing or selling the homestead except as provided in the
next section. Whenever any such order shall be made the county court may,
in its discretion, direct such executor or administrator, either alone or together
with other owners of such real estate, to make, acknowledge and reoord a plat
of such real estate in manner and form as prescribed in chapter 101 of these
statutes. Such plat, so executed and recorded, shall be as valid and effectual
as if made by the owner of such real estate, and lots may be sold, separately
or otherwise, pursuant to such plat. 
SEC. 3884.
Whenever the homestead of the deceased is part only of a tract of land, the 
whole of which was subject to a mortgage at the time of the death of the de­
ceased, and it shall appear that all other real estate and personal property of
the deceased has been applied to the payment of his debts or is insufficient 
therefor and that the part of the mortgaged premises not included in the
homestead cannot be sold separately therefrom without i'njurv to the interests
of the parties tlie court may grant a license for the sale of the whole of the
tract; or if a part of the tract can be sold separately, and only a part is neces­
sary to be sold in connection with the homestead to prevent such injury, then
a license to sell such part separately first, which can be so separatei'y sold,
and the remainder afterwards, may be granted. The order of license, in either
case, shall direct that the entire estate or interest, including the interest of the
mortgagee, be so sold; but no such license to sell shall be made when the mort­
gage debt is not wholly due unless the mortgagee shall consent in writing
thereto; if such consent is given and the sale is made for less than the amount
of such debt with interest and costs of sale the mortgagee shall have the same
right to proceed, in an independent action, against every party who may be 
personally liable for the debt secured by the mortgage and to a personal judg­
ment for any deficiency against such party as if such sale had not been made;
the mortgagee may also file his claim for the balance due against the estate of
the decedent, but shall be entitled to only one satisfaction thereof. 
The proceeds of the sale shall, under the direction of the court, be applied
in the following order:· 
1. The expenses of the license and sale shall be paid ;
2. The mortgage debt, making a proper rebate of interest on any sum not 
due, shall next be paid;
3. The court shall next ascertain and set apart the value of the homestead 
sold, irrespective of the mortgage thereon; •
4. If there be any residue of the proceeds remaining the same shall be ap­ 
plied to the payment of debts as in other cases.
The sum set apart as the value of the homestead shall be paid to the owners 
thereof, by descent or devise, unless such owners or some of them be minors,
in which case the court may, if it can be justly done, separate the amount
belonging to such minors and pay the same to their guardian, and pay the
amount belonging to any person of full age to such person; or if such separa­
tion of the funds cannot be made with certainty and with justice to the inter­
ests of such minors the court may order the whole invested until such minors
reach majority or such separation of the fund can be made, and meantime
apply the income from such investment to the use of the persons entitled
thereto according to their rights and interests therein. The proceeds of such
homestead shall possess all tile privileges and exemptions which appertained
by law to the homestead before such sale. 
SEC. 3885. Whenever an order
shall be made by the county court for the sale of any real estate for the pay·
ment of the debts of the deceased and charges of .administration and such real
estate shall be subject to the right of dower in the widow it shall be lawful
for the executor or administrator to enter into a contract in writing with the
widow by which she may agree to accept in lieu of dower such a l?er~entage
on the amount realized on the sale as shall be deemed, upon the principles of
law applicable to annuities, a reasonable satisfaction for such dower; which
said contract shall be sealed and witnessed by two witnesses and filed with the
county court, together with an affidavit setting forth the ag~ of. the widow.
The said contract, when acknowledged and assented to by said widow before
the countv court and approved by said court, and the acknowledgment in­
dorsed thereon, shall operate as a release of the dower right of the widow in
the real estate, and the same shall be sold free from all claim of dower. Im­
mediately after the sale so ordered shall have been made the executor or ad­
ministrator sball file with the county court the receipt of the widow for the 
said percentage taken in lieu of dower or he shall deposit the same amount
with the county court for her use, to be paid to her when. she indorses a re­
ceipt for the same on said contract. 
SEC. 3886. No license to mortgage, lease
or sell real estate shall be granted if any person interested in the estate shall
give bonds to the judge of the county court in such sum and with such sureties 
as he shall direot and approve, with· condition to pay all the debts and the ex­
penses of administration, so far as the goods and chattels, rights and credits
of the deceased shall be insufficient therefor, within such time as the county
court shall direct. Such bond shall be for the security, and may be prosecuted
for the benefit, of the creditors as well as the executor or administrator. 
SEC. 3887. When the
executor or administrator is authorized to mortgage, lease or sell any real estate
for the payment of debts he shall, before the sale, give bond .to the judge of 
the county court, with sufficient sureties, to account for all the proceeds of the
sale and to dispose of the same according to law, and take and subscribe the
oath prescribed by section 3915. 
SEC. ssss, The order shall
specify the lands to be sold, and the county court may therein direct the order
in which several parcels shall be sold. If it appear that any part of such real
estate or any estate or interest therein has been devised and not charged in
such devise with the payment of debts the county court shall order that part
not devised to be first sold; and if it appear that any lands devised or de­
scended have been sold by the devisees or heirs then the lands remaining un­
sold shall be ordered to be sold first. 
SEC. 3889. Upon makinz such order
for the mortgaging, leasing or selling real estate and filing with the county
court a bond as required by this chapter a certified copy of such order shall be
delivered by the court to tho executor or administrator, who shall thereupon 
be authorized to mortgage, lease or sell the real estate as therein directed,
within one year after making the order and not after that period. But the
court making the order may, on application of the executor or administrator
and for good cause shown, extend the time for making a. sale of real estate, but
not longer than two years after the date of the original order. 
SEC. 8890. License to sell real estate as
provided in this chapter may extend to the reversion of the dower of the widow
of a deceased person; and if such reversion be not sold with the other real es­
tate it may be sold after the expiration of the widow's term. 
SEC. 8891. When a sale is ordered notice of the time
and place of holding the same shall be posted in three of the most public places
in the town or ward in which the land is situated and shall be published in a
newspaper, as provided in section 4045, for three successive weeks before the 
day fixed for the sale, and the last publication shall not be more than ten days
before such day, in which notice the lands to be sold shall he described with 
reasonable certainty. 
SEC. 8892. Such sale shall be in the countl where the lands are situated, at public 
auction, between the hours of nine o clock in the morning and the settmg of
the sun of the same day. But where the lands are adjacent and lie in two or
more counties the sale may be had in either, but the court shall by order des­
ignate in whioh; and if there be a. newspa.rer printed in more than one of said
counties the court shall direct in which o such newspapers the notice of sale
shall be published, and when so published it shall be sufficient. 
SEC. 3893. An affidavit of the executor, administra­
tor or any other person having knowledge of the fact that notice of any such
sale was given as provided in this chapter, filed in the county court, together
with a copy of the notice, shall be admitted as evidence of the time, place and
manner of giving such notice. 
SEC. 8894. If at the time ap­
pointed for any such sale the executor or administrator shall deem it for the
mterest of all persons concerned therein he may adjourn the same from time
to time, not exceeding in all three months. In case of such adjournment no­
tice thereof shall be given by a public declaration at the time and place first
fixed for the sale. If the adjournment shall be for more than one day further
notice shall be given by posting or publishing the same, or both, as the time
and circumstances may admit. 
SEC. 3895. On such sale the executor or
administrator may give such length of credit, not exceeding three years and
for not more than three-fourths of the purchase-money, as shall seem best cal- 
culated to produce the highest price and as shall have been directed or shall 
be approved by the county court, and shall take such securitv for the amount
of the credit given upon the premises sold as the court shall direct and approve. 
SEC. 3896. The executor
or administrator making such sale shall immediately thereafter make a return
of his doings upon the order of sale, in pursuance of which it was made, to
the county court granting the order. Said court shall examine the proceed­ 
ings and may also examine the executor, administrator or any other person
on oath touching the same. If such court shall be of the opinion that the
proceedin~ were unfair or that the sum bid is disproportionate to the value
of the land sold and that a sum exceeding such bid, exclusive of the expense
of a new sale, may be obtained, said court may vacate such sale and direct an­
other to be had, of which notice shall be given and the sale shall be in all
respects conducted as if no previous sale had taken place, If it shall appear
to the county court that the sale was legally made and fairlv conducted and
that the sum bid thereon was not disproportionate to the value of the property
sold, or if disproportionate that & greater sum as above specified cannot be 
obtained, said court shall make an order confirming such sale and directing
- conveyances to be executed. 
SEC. 3897. All sales and convey­
ances of land made by executors or administrators, pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter, except as otherwise provided in section 3884, shall be subject
to all charges thereon by mortgage or otherwise existing at the time of the
death of the testator or intestate, where such mort~age or charge is upon a
single lot or tract of land. In case the estate of the deceased shall be in anv
way liable for the amount secured by any such mortgage or for any such
charge such sale shall not be confirmed by the county court until the purchaser
shall execute a bond to the executor or administrator as required m section
3901. But in case the charge by mortgage or otherwise is upon two or more
lots or parcels of land, greater in value than the amount of said mortgage or
liens thereon, the court ordering the sale, on being satisfied that it would be
most beneficial to the parties interested in said land that the same be sold freed
from such incumbrances, may so order; in which case sufficient of the moneys
made by the sale shall be appropriated or invested by order of the county court,
on confirming the sale, tolay and satisfy the said lien, and the balance that
may remain shall be applie in course of administration as assets in the hands 
of the executor or administrator. 
SEC. 3898. The pro­
oeeds arising from mortgage, lease or sale of real estate or from the sale of the
interest of any deceased person in real estate held under contract as provided 
in this chapter shall be deemed assets in the hands of the executor or admin­
istrator in like manner as if the same had been originally part of the goods
and chattels of the deceased; and the executor or administrator and the sure­
ties in his administration bond shall be accountable and liable therefor. 
SEC. 3899. When a testator shall have given any
legacy by a will that is effectual to pass or charge real estate and Iiis goods, 
chattels, rights and credits shall be insufficient to pay such legacy, together
with the debts and charges of administration, the executor or administrator
with the will annexed may be licensed to sell, mortgage or lease his real estate
for that purpose in the same manner and upon the same terms and conditions
as are prescribed in this chapter in the case of a sale, mortgage or lease for
the payment of debts. 
SEC. 8900. If a deceased person, at the time of his
death, was possessed of a contract for the purchase of land his interest in suoh
land under such contract may be sold on the application of his executor or ad­
ministrator in the same cases and in the same manner as if he had died seized
of such land; and the same proceedings may be had for that purpose as are
prescribed in this chapter in respect to lands of w hioh he died seized, except as 
hereinafter provided. 
SEC. 3901. Such sale shall be made subject to all pay­
ments that may thereafter become due on such contract; and if there be any
such payment thereafter to become due such sale shall not be confirmed by the
county court until the purchaser shall execute a. bond to the executor or ad­
ministrator, for his benefit and indemnity and for the benefit and indemnitv
of the persons entitled to the interest of the deceased in the lands so contracted
for, in double the whole amount of payments thereafter to become due on such
contract, with such sureties as the county court shall approve, with condition
that such purchaser will make all pavments for such land that shall become
due after the date of such sale and wilf indemnify the executor or administra­
tor and the person so entitled against all demands, costs, charges and expenses 
by reason of any covenant or agreement contained in such contract. 
SEC. 3902. Upon the con­
firmation of such sale the executor or administrator shall execute to the pur­
chaser an assiznment of such contract, which assignment shall vest in the
purchaser, his heirs and assigns all the right, interest and title of the person
entitled to the interest of the deceased in the lands sold at the time of the sale,
and such purchaser shall have the same rights and remedies against the vendor
of such land as the deceased would have had were he living. 
SEC. 3903. When an executor or adminis­
trator shall be appointed in any other state or territory of the United States
or in any foreign country on the estate of any rerson dying out of this state
and no executor or administrator thereon shal be appointed in this state the
foreign executor or administrator may file an authenticated copy of his appoint­
ment in the county court of anv county in which there may be real estate of
the deceased. Upon filing such copy such foreign executor or administrator
may be licensed by such court to mortgage, lease or sell real estate or any in- 
- terest therein held by contract for the purchase thereof for the payment of
debts or legacies and charges of administration in the same manner and upon
the-same terms and conditions as are prescribed in the case of an executor or
administrator appointed in this state, except in the particulars in which a dif­
ferent provision is hereinafter made. 
SEC. 3904. When it shall appear to the court
granting the license that such foreign executor or administrator is bound with
sufficient surety or sureties in the state, territory or country in which he was
appointed to account for the proceeds of such mortgage, lease or sale for the
payment of debts, legacies and charges of administration and a copy of such
bond, duly authenticated, shall be filed in such county court no further bond
for that purpose shall be required of him. If a copy of such bond shall not be
filed as aforesaid such executor or administrator, before making such mortgage,
lease or sale, shall give bond with sufficient sureties to the judge of the county
court with condition to account for and dispose of the proceeds of such mort­
gage, lease or sale for the payment of the debts or legacies of the deceased and
the charges of administration, according to the law of the state, territory or
country m which he was appointed. 
SEC. 3905. When such foreign executor or adminjstri.­
tor is licensed to sell more than is necessary for the payment of debts, legacies
and charges of administration, as before provided for in this chapter, he shall,
before making the sale, give bond, with sufficient sureties, to the judge of the
county court with condition to account to such court for all the proceeds of
the sale that shall remain after payment of the said debts, legacies and charges
and to dispose of the same according to law. 
SEC. 3906. Any suoh sale, whioh
shall have been made by virtue of any order or license of any county court by
any executor or administrator or by any person acting as such, shall be deemed
and held to be as valid and effectual as if made by the judgment or order of
a court of general jurisdiction. And the title of any purchaser in good faith
at such sale shall not be invalidated by reason of any omission or error in the
appointment of such executor or administrator or by reason of any defect or
irregularity in the proceedings before such court, or any allegation of the want
of jurisdiction on the part of such court, except in the manner and for the
causes that the same could be invalidated in case such sale had been made pur­
suant to the order or judgment of a court of general jurisdiction. 
SEC. 3907. When any person who is bound byoon­
tract in writing to convey any real estate shall die before making the convey­
ance the county court may make an order or judgment authorizing and direct­
ing the executor or administrator to convey such real estate to the person
entitled thereto in all cases where such deceased person, if living, might be
compelled to execute such conveyance. 
SEC. 3908. On the presentation
of a petition by any person claiming to be entitled to such oonvevanoe from 
anv executor or administrator, setting forth the facts upon which such claim is
predicated, the county court shall appoint a. time and place of hearing such peti­
tion and shall order notices of the pendency thereof and of the time and place
of hearing to be published in a. newspaper as provided in section 4045, at least
three successive weeks before the day fixed for such hearing. The last publi­
cation shall not be more than ten days before the day so fixed. 
SEC. 3909. At the
time and place appointed for such hearing or at such other time as the same 
may be adjourned to, upon proof by affidavit of the due publication of the
notice, the court shall proceed to a hearing, and all persons interested in the
estate may appear and defend against such petition; and the court may examine 
· on oath the petitioner and all others who may be produced before it for that
purpose, 
SEC. 3910. After a foll hearing upon
such petition and examination of the facts and circumstances of such claim if
the county court shall be satisfied that the petitioner is entitled to a. conveyance
of the real estate described in his petition it shall thereupon make an order or
judgment authorizing and directing the executor or admmistrator to make and
execute a conveyance thereof to such petitioner and may, in its discretion, direct
the reasonable expenses of such application and conveyance to be paid by the
executor or administrator out of the estate of such deceased person. 
SEC. 3911. If
no appeal be taken from such order or judgment within the time limited there­ 
for bv law or if such order or judgment be affirmed on appeal it shall be the 
duty of the executor or administrator to execute the conveyance according to
the direction contained in such order or judgment; and a certified copy of the
order or judgment shall be recorded with the deed in the office of the register
of deeds in the county where the lands lie and shall be evidence of the correct­
ness of the proceedings and of the authority of the executor or aclministrator
to make the conveyance. Every such conveyance shall be effectual to pass the
estate contracted as fully as if the contracting party himself were still living
and then executed the same. 
SEC. 3912. If, upon the hearing
as hereinbefore provided, the county court shall doubt the right of the pen- 
tioner to have a specific performance of the contract such court shall dismiss
the petition without prejudice to the rights of the petitioner, who may there­
after maintain a.n action in the circuit court to enforce a specific performance
of the con tract. 
SEC. 3913. The county court may,
in its discretion, authorize an executor, administrator or guardian to have the
lands which he may be licensed by said court to sell appraised by three disin­
terested freeholders of the county in which the lands or some part thereof
lie. Such appraisal shall be under oath, which oath and appraisal shall be
certified in the usual form and filed in the court from which said license was
issued. The executor, administrator or guardian so licensed shall offer the
lands at public auction in the manner provided by law; and if at public auc­
tion no bid shall be made of a greater sum than the appraised value such ex­
ecutor, administrator or guardian may sell such lands at private sale at a price
not less than the ap:praised value; and if not sold within one year they may
be sold at pu blio auction. 
SEC. 3914-. The executor, administrator or
guardian making the sale or the guardian of any heir of the deceased shall
not, directly or indirectly, purchase or be interested in the purchase of any
part of the real estate so sold. All sales made contrary to the provisions of 
this section shall be void; but this section shall not prohibit any such purchase 
by a guardian for the benefit of his ward. 
SEC. 3915. Every executor,
administrator or guardian authorized to sell real estate, as provided in this chapter or in chapter 171, shall, before making· such sale, take and subscribe an
oath that in disposing of the real estate which he is licensed to sell he will exert
his best endeavors to dispose of the same in such manner as will be most for
the advantage of all persons intorested; which oath shall be filed with the
countv court before the sale is confirmed. 
SEC. 3916. In all cases of a sale
by an executor, administrator or guardian of part or the whole of the real es­
tate of his testator, intestate or ward, under a license granted by any county 
.court by Yi rtue of the provisions of this chapter or by virtue of the provisions
of chapter 171, whether such executor, administrator or guardian was appointed
in this stare or elsewhere, the surplus of the proceeds of the sale remaining on
the final settlement of the accounts shall be considered as real estate and dis­
posed of among the persons and in the same proportions as the real estate
would have been by the laws of this state if it had not been sold.
SEC. 3917. If any person shall appear and ob­
ject to the granting of any license prayed for under the provisions of this chapter or under the provisions of chapter 171, by an executor, administrator
or guardian, whether such executor, administrator or guardian was appointed
in this state or elsewhere, and if it shall appear to the court either that the
petition or objection thereto is unreasonable the court may, in its discretion,
award costs to the party prevailing and may enforce the payment thereof by 
execution or otherwise. 
SEC. 3918. No action
for the recovery of any estate sold by an executor or administrator under the
provisions of this chapter shall be maintained by any heir or other person claim­ 
m~ under the deceased testator or intestate unless it be commenced within five
years next a.fter the sale; and no action for the recovery of any estate sold by 
a. guardian under the provisions of chapter 171 shall be mamtained by the
ward or by any person claiming under him unless it be commenced within five 
years next after the termination of the guardianship, excepting only that minors
and others under legal disability to sue at the time when the cause of action
shall accrue may commence their action at any time within five years next
after the removal of the disability. 
SEC. 3919. In case of an action relating to
anv estate sold by an executor, administrator or guardian in which an heir
or .. other person claiming under the deceased or in which the ward or any
person claiming under him shall contest the validity of the sale, it shall not
be avoided on account of any irregularity in the proceedings, provided it shall 
appear:
1. That the executor, administrator or guardian was licensed to make the 
sale by the county court having jurisdiction;
2. That he gave a bond which was approved by the county court before the 
sale; .
3. That he took the oath prescribed by law; 
4. That he gave the notice of the .time and place of sale as prescribed by 
law·
5.' That the premises were sold accordingly and the sale confirmed by the 
court, and that they are held by one who purchased them in good faith. 
SEC. 3920. If there shall be any neglect or
misconduct in the proceedings of the executor, administrator or guardian in
relation to such sale, by which any person interested in the estate shall suffer 
dama~es, such aggrieved party may recover the same in an action on the bond
of sucn executor, administrator or guardian or otherwise, as the case may re­ 
quire. 
SEC. 3921. If the validity of a sale made by an ex­
ecutor, administrator or guardian shall be drawn in question by any person
claiming adversely to the title of the deceased testator or intestate or of the
ward, or claiming under any title that is not derived from or through the de­
ceased person or the ward, the sale shall not be held void on account of any
irregularity in the proceedings; provided, it shall appear that the executor,
admmistra.tor or guardian was licensed to make the sale by a county court
having jurisdiction and that he did accordingly execute and acknowledge, in
legal form, a deed for the con veyanoe of the premises, 
SEC. 3922. Any executor, administrator or guard­
ian who shall fraudulently sell any real estate of his testator, intestate or
ward, contrary to the provisions of this chapter or contrary to the provisions
of chapter 171, shall be liable in double the value of the land sold as damages,
to be recovered in an action by any person having an inheritance therein. 
SEC. 8928. Every executor and administrator
shall be chargeable in his accounts with all the goods, chattels, rights and cred­
its of the deceased which· may come to his possession; also with all interest,
profit and income, including income of the real estate while it shall remain in
his possession, which shall in any way come to his hands from the estate of the
deceased; also with all the proceeds of the real estate which may be sold for
the payment of debts and legacies.
SEC. 8924. 
Every executor and administrator shall account for the personal estate of the
deceased at the appraised value thereof, excepting when debts due the de­
ceased remain uncollected without his fault he shall not be required to account
for the same, and when personal property has been sold under an order of the
countv court he shall account for the same at the price for which it sold. He
shall not make profit by the increase nor suffer loss by the decrease or de­
struction, without his fault, of any of the personal estate. If he shall sell any
part of the personal estate without an order of court for less than the appraised
value be shall not be liable for the loss if it shall appear that such sale wa1
beneficial to the estate; if he sell for more than the appraised value he shall
account for the excess.
SEC. 3925. When any executor or ad­
ministrator shall use or occupy any part of the real estate of the deceased he
shall account for such use or occupancy, as may be agreed upon between him
and the parties interested or as may be adjudged by the county court with
their assent. If the parties shall not agree upon the sum to be allowed or if
the county court shall not fix the sum with the assent of the parties the sum
may be ascertained by one or more disinterested persons, to be appointed by
the county court, whose award, being accepted by such court, shall be final 
SEC. 3926. When an executor or administrator
shall neglect or unreasonably delay to raise money by collecting the debts or
selling the real or personal estate of the deceased or shall neglect to pay over
the money he shall have in his hands, and the value of the estate shall thereby 
be lessened or unnecessary cost or interest shall accrue, or the persons inter­
ested shall suffer loss, the same shall be deemed waste; and the damages sus­
tained may be charged against the executor or administrator in his account or
he shall be liable therefor on his administration bond. 
SEC. 3927. Every execu­
tor or administrator shall render his account as required by section 3849, and
he shall render such further accounts of his administration from time to time
as may be required by the county court, until the estate shall be wholly settled;
and he may be examined on oath by the court upon any matter relating to his
account and the settlement of the estate. 
SEC. 8928. Whenever
anv deceased person shall, by his will, make provision for compensation to his
executor it shall be deemed a full compensation for his services unless be shall, 
by a written instrument filed in the county court, renounce all claim to the
oompensation provided by the will. 
SEC. 3929. When no such
compensation shall be provided by the will or the executor shall renounce all
claim thereto he shall oe allowed all necessary expenses in the care, manage- 
• ment and settlement of the estate and for his services one dollar per day, and
commissions upon the amount of personal estate collected and accounted for 
by him and the proceeds of real estate s?ld under an order of the county
court for the payment of debts or legacies as follows: for the first thou­
sand dollars at the rate of five per cent.; for all above that sum and not ex­
ceeding tive thousand dollars, at the rate of two and one-half per cent.; and
for all above fl ve thousand dollars, at the rate of one per cent.; and such
further sums in cases of unusual difficulty or extraordinary services as the
county court shall judge reasonable. The same compensation shall be allowed
to administrators. 
SEC. 8930. When costs in any case are
allowed against an executor or administrator in any proceeding in the conntv 
court and paid by him the same shall be allowed him iri his administration ac­
count unless it shall appear that the action or proceeding in which the costs
were taxed shall have been prosecuted or resisted without just cause on his
part; and the court may determine, in rendering the judgment, whether the
costs shall be paid out of the estate or by the executor or administrator. The
court may allow as oosts the sum paid by an executor or administrator for
surety on his bond as provided in section 2932. 
SEC. 3031. Before the admin­
istration account of any execntor or administrator shall be allowed notice shall 
be given to all persons interested of the time and place of examining and allow­
inz the same. Such notice may be gi,Ten personally to such persons as the
co~nty court shall jndge to be interested and by order direct to be notified; or 
by publica.tion, for three successive weeks before the day fixed for hearing, in a 
newspaper as directed in section 4045. And such notice shall be served upon
the attorneys of all persons who have appeared in the proceedings herein in
the same manner as notices are required to be served in the circuit oourts. 
SEC. 3932. In case any executor or administrator
has heretofore died or shall hereafter die, leaving his administration accounts
unsettled and leaving books of accounts as such executor or administrator ap­
pearing to have been kept in his own handwriting, such books of accounts shall
be presumptive evidence of the receipts and disbursements therein entered and
the services therein charged. 
SEC. 3933. In case any sole or surviving executor or
administrator has heretofore died or shall hereafter die, leaving his adminis­
tration accounts unsettled, no action shall be commenced upon the administra­
tion bond of such deceased executor or administrator against the sureties in
such bond or either of them until such sureties or one of them shall have had
an opportunity to apply for and have a settlement of the administration ao-
counts of such deceased executor or administrator. 
SEC. 3934. The accounts of any
executor or administrator who may have died leaving his accounts as such ex­
ecutor or administrator unsettled may be settled by the county court on the 
application of any surety on the bond of such executor or administrator or of
any other person interested. in such settlement, upon notice being given as re­ 
quired by section 3931
SEC. 3935. When any person shall
die possessed 9f any personal estate or of any right or interest therein, whether
disposed of by will or not, the same shall be applied and distributed as follows: 
Allowance to widow. 1. The widow, if any, shall be allowed all her articles of apparel and ornaments and all the wearing apparel and ornaments
of the deceased, the household furniture of the deceased not exceeding in value
two hundred and fifty dollars, and other personal l?roperty to be selected by
her not exceeding in value two hundred dollars. ThIS allowance shall be made
when the widow waives the provision made for her in the will of her husband
or when none is made for her as well as when he dies intestate. 
Allowance to family. 2. The widow and minor children, or either, con­
stituting the family of the deceased testator or intestate, shall have such rea­ 
sonable allowance out of the personal estate or the income of the real estate
of the deceased as the county court shall judge necessary for their maintenance
during the progress of the settlement of the estate, but never for a longer pe­
riod than until their shares shall be assigned to them, and in case of an insolv­
ent estate not longer than one year after granting letters testamentary or of
ad ministration. 
Allowance to minor children. 3. The minor children shall be allowed
all their articles of apparel and ornaments and if their father died intestate, 
leaving no widow, his household furniture, wearing apparel and ornaments,
not exceeding in value two hundred and fifty dollars, and other personal prop­
erty to be selected by their guardian or by the county judge for them, not ex­
ceeding in value twe hundred dollars. When a person shall die, either testate
or intestate, leaving children under seven years of age, having no mother, or
when the mother shall die before the children shall arrive at the age of seven
years and before the settlement of the estate, an allowance shall be made for
the necessary maintenance of such children, until they arrive at the age of 
seven years, out of the personal estate, if sufficient; if not sufficient, then out 
of the 'income of the real estate.  chapter 169. 
Whole estate allowed family. 4. If on the return of the inventory of
any estate it shall appear that the value of the whole estate does not exceed
the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars, in addition to the allowances men­
tioned in the preceding subdivisions of this section, the county court may, by
an order, assign the whole of such estate for the use and support of the widow 
and minor children of the deceased and for the support of the children under
seven years of age, if there be no widow, after the payment of funeral charges
and expenses of administration. 
Estate applied to pay debts. 5. If the personal estate of any deceased
person shall amount to more than one hundred. and fifty dollars, in addition
to the allowances mentioned in the preceding subdivisions of this section, the
excess shall be applied to the payment of the debts of the deceased, with ex­
penses of administration and funeral charges. 
Residue, how disposed of. 6. The residue, if any, of the personal estate
of any intestate and the residue of the personal estate of a testator, not disposed
of by his will and not required for the purposes hereinbefore mentioned in this section, shall be distributed in the same proportions, and to the same persons,
and for the same purposes, as prescribed for the descent and disposition of real
estate in chapter 102, except that when the deceased shall leave a widow and
lawful issue the widow shall be entitled to receive the same share of such resi­
due as a child of such deceased. 
State entitled to residue. 7. In case there shall be no known heir or
distributee the personal estate not disposed of by the will shall belon~ to the
state; and all the personal estate of any deceased person, which shalt not be
claimed by the legatee, heir or distributee within three years after the death
of the owner thereof, shall, in like manner, belong to the state, subject in both
oases onlv to the debts, funeral charges and the expenses of administration,
and shallbe paid to the state treasurer and become a part of tlie school fund. 
SEC. 3936. In all cases
mentioned in the seventh subdivision of the preceding section it shall be the
duty of the county court having jurisdiction thereof to notify the attorney­
general of the interest or probable interest of the state in such estate imme­
diately after the same shall come to the know ledge of such court; and the at­
torney-general shall appear for and protect the interests of the state therein. 
SEC. 3937. The sum paid by
the representative of any estate named in the seventh subdivision of section 
3935 into the state treasury shall be refunded to the proper owner, who had
not before asserted claim thereto, upon his estal:i'lishing his ri~ht to the same 
as herein provided. Such claimant may, at any time within live years after
the payment of such sum into the state treasury, file with the county court of
the countv where the estate was settled a petition setting forth his right to the
sum so paid to the state treasury and the grounds thereof; said court shall
thereupon fix a time and place for hearing such petition and shall by order
require the claimant to notify the attorney-general of the time and place so
fixed for such hearing at least thirty days before such time. It shall be the
duty of the attorney-general to appear for and protect the rights of the state.
When the claim is finally adjudicated by the county court, or on appeal by the
appellate court; if allowed, the county court shall so certify to tlie secretary
of state, who shall thereupon audit and the state treasurer shall pay the same;
but no interest on the claim shall be paid by the state. 
SEC. 3938. If any land held by
an executor or administrator as mentioned in sections 3829, 3830 and 3831
shall not be sold by him as therein provided it shall be assigned and distributed
to the same persons and in the same proportions as if it had been part of the
personal estate of the deceased; and if, upon such distribution, the estate shall
come to two or more persons partition thereof may be made between them in
like manner as if it were real estate which the deceased held in his life-time. 
SEC. 3939. Before any par­
tition or division of any estate among the heirs, devisees or legatees an allow- 
anoe shall be made for the necessary expenses for the support of the children
of the deceased under seven years of age until they attain that age; and the
county court may order the executor or administrator to retain m bis hands
sufficient estate for that purpose, except where some provision shall have been
made by will f )r their support. 
SEC. 3940. After the payment of the debts,
funeral charges and expenses of administration and after deducting all the
allowances provided for in this chapter or when sufficient effects shall be re­
served in the hands of the executor or administrator for the above purposes,
the county court shall, bv an order or judgment, assign the residue of the es­
tate, if any, to such other persons as are by law entitled to the same. In such
order or judgment the court shall name the persons and the part to which each
shall be entitled. Such persons shall have the right to recover their respect­
ive shares from the executor or administrator or from any person having the
same. Such order or judgment may be made on the apphcation of the exeou­
tor or administrator or of any person interested in the estate. 
SEC. 3941. No
heir, devisee, legatee or assignee thereof shall be entitled to an order for his
share previous to the-making of the order or judgment mentioned in the pre­
ceding section, unless he shall give a bond to the judge of the county court, in
such sum and with such sureties as the court may direct, to secure the payment
of the just proportion of such heir, devisee or legatee of such debts and ex­
penses or such parts thereof as shall remain unprovided for and to indemnify
the executor or administrator against the same. 
SEC. 3942. When the county court shall make
an order or judgment assigning the residue of any estate to two or more per­
sons entitled to the same it shall not be necessary to make partition or distri­
bution of such estate unless the parties to whom the assignment shall be made
or some of them shall request it; but when requested by any party in interest
partition and distribution may be made by three disinterested rersons to be
appointed by the county court for that purpose. Said court shal issue a war­ 
rant to them for the rurpose of such partition and distribution, and they shall
be sworn to a faithfu discharge of their duties. 
SEC. 8943. If the real ,
estate shall lie in different counties the county court may appoint different
commissioners for each county, and in such case the estate in each county shall
be divided separately, as if there were no other estate to be divided; but unless
otherwise directed by the county court the commissioners first appointed shall
make division of all such real estate wherever situated in this state. 
SEC. 3944. Before anv
commissioners shall be appointed to make such partition and distribution as 
directed in this chapter notice of the time and place of hearing the applioa­
tion for the appointment of such commissioners shall be given to all persons
interested who reside in this state or to their guardians, and to the agents,
attorneys or guardians, if any, in: this state, of such as reside out of the state
either personally, at least ten days before the day fixed for the bearing, or by
publication in a newspaper as provided in section 4045, for six successive weeks
before the day so fixed, the last publication not to be more. than ten days be- 
fore such day. 
SEC. 3945. Partition of real estate
may be made as provided in this chapter although some of the original heirs
or devisees may have conveyed their shares to other persons. Such shares
shall be set off to the persons holding the same in the same manner as they
otherwise should have been to such heirs or devisees. 
SEC. 8946. Before
any partition· shall be made or any estate divided, as provided in this chapter,
guardians shall be appointed for all minors and persons of unsound mind in­
terested in the estate to be divided, and some discreet person shall be appointed 
to act as agent for such parties as shall reside out of the state, and notice of
the appointment of such guardians and agents shall be given to the commis­
sioners in their warrant. Notice shall be given by the commissioners to all
persons interested in the yartition, their guardians or agents, of the time when
and place where they wil meet and proceed to make partition in such manner
as the court shall direct. 
SEC. 3947. The several shares in the real and
personal estate shall be set off to each individual in proportion to his right,
by metes and bounds or descriptions, so that the same can be easily distin­
guished, unless any two or more of the parties _interested shall consent to have
their shares set off so as to be held by them in common and undi vided, 
SEC. 3948. When any tract of
land or tenement shall be of greater value than either party's share in the
estate to be divided and cannot be divided without injury to the same it may
be set off by the commissioners to either of the parties who will accept it, giv­
ing preference as prescribed in section 3951. But the party so accepting it
shall pay or secure to one or more of the others such sums as the commission- 
ers shall award to make the partition equal, and the commissioners shall make
their award accordinglv. Such partition shall not be established by the court
until the sums so awarded shall be paid to the parties entitled thereto or se­ 
cured to their satisfaction. 
SEC. 3949. When partition of real
estate among heirs or devisees shall be required or dower ls to be assigned to 
a widow in the same and such real estate shall be in common and undivided
with the real estate of any other person the commissioners shall first divide
and sever the estate of the deceased from the estate with which it lies in com­
mon, and such division, so made and established by the county court, shall be
binding on all the persons interested; but such other part owner of such real
estate shall have the same notice of the time and place of hearing upon the
appointment of such commissioners and of the time and place of meeting to
make partition as is provided in sections 3944 and 394:6. 
SEC. 3950. The commission­
ers shall make report of their proceedings to the county court in writing; and 
the court may, for sufficient cause, set aside such report and appoint other
commissioners or direct the same commissioners to make another partition.
The report, when finally accepted and established, shall be recorded in the
records of the countv court and a copy thereof, attested by the judge of the
oounty court under the seal of the court, shall be recorded in the office of
the register of deeds of the county wherein the lands lie. 
SEC. 3951. When any such
real estate cannot be divided without prejudice or inconvenience to the owners
the county court may assign the whole to one or more of the parties entitled 
· to share therein, who will accept it, always preferring the males to the females,
and among children preferring the elder to the younger; but the party so ac­
cepting the whole shall pay to the other parties interested their Just propor­
tion of the true value thereof or shall secure the same to their satisfaction,
and the true value of the estate shall be ascertained by commissioners appointed
by the county court and sworn for that purpose. Such commissioners shall
only be appointed upon like notice to all parties interested, their guardians,
agents and attorneys as provided for commissioners to make partition in sec­
tions 3944 and 3946
SEC. 3952. The partition, when finally con­
firmed and established, shall be conclusive on all the heirs and devisees and all
persons claiming under them and upon all persons interested. 
SEC. 3953. If at the time of the
partition or distribution of any estate, as provided in this chapter, the execu­ 
tor or administrator shall have retained sufficient effects in his hands which
may be lawfullv applied for that purpose the expenses of such partition or dis­
tribution ma.,v be paid by such executor or administrator when it shall appear
to the court just and equitable and not i iconsistent with the intent of the tes­
tator; but if there be no effects in the hands of the executor or administrator
which mav be lawfully applied to that purpose the expenses and charges of
the partition or distribution, being ascertained by the county court, shall be 
paid by all the parties interested in the partition or distribution in proportion
to their respective shares or interests in the premises; and the proportions
shall be settled and determined by the county court. If any one snail neglect
to pay the sum assessed on him by the court the same may be enforced. by exe­
cution in favor of the persons entitled to the same. 
SEC. 3954. When the term of a widow en­ titled to a homestead right or dower or other life estate in the hands of a de­
ceased person shall expire the reversion may be assigned to the persons entitled
to the same and partition thereof be made in the manner prescribed in this  chapter in relation to the estates of deceased persons. 
SEC. 3955. When any estate
shall be assigned by order or judgment of the court or be distributed by com­ 
missioners, as provided in this chapter, to any person residing out of this state
and having no agent herein, and it shall be necessary that some person should
be authorized to take possession and charge of the same for the benefit of such
absent person the court may appoint an agent for that purpose and authorize
him to take charge of such estate as well as to act for such absent person in
the partition and distribution thereof. Such a~ent shall give a bond to the
judge of the county court, to be approved by him, faithfully to manage and
account for such estate, before he shall be authorized to receive the same, and
the court appointing such agent may allow a reasonable sum out of the profits
of the estate for his services and expenses.
SEC. 3956. An v estate, real or personal, that may
have been given by the intestate in his life-time as an advancement to any­
child or other lineal descendant shall be considered as a part of the estate of
the intestate, so far as it regards the division and distribution thereof among
his issue, and shall be taken by such child or other descendant toward his
share of the estate of the intestate. 
SEC. 3957. If the amount of such advancement shall
exceed the share of the heir so advanced he shall be excluded from any fur­
ther portion in the division and distribution of the estate, but he shall not be
required to refund any part of such advancement; and if the amount so re­
oeived shall be less than his share he shall be entitled to as much more as will 
give him his full share of the estate of the deceased. 
SEC. 3958. If such
advancement be made in real estate the value thereof shall, for the purposes 
mentioned in the preceding section, be considered a part of the real estate to be 
divided; and if it be in personal estate it shall be considered as a part of the
personal estate; if in either case it shall exceed the share of real or personal
estate respectively that would have come to the heir so advanced he shall not
be required to refund any part of it, but shall receive so much less out of the
other part of the estate as will make his whole share equal to those of the other
heirs who are in the same degree with him.
SEC. 3959. All gifts and
grants shall be deemed to have been made in advancement if they are expressed 
m the gift or grant to be so made or tt charged in writing by the intestate as 
an advancement or acknowledged in writing as such bv the child or other
descendant. If the value of the estate so advanced shall be expressed in the
conveyance or in the charge thereof made by the intestate or in the acknowl­
edgment of the party receiving it such value shall govern in the division and ·
distribution of the estate; otherwise it shall be estimated according to its value
when given, as nearly as the same can be ascertained. 
SEC. 3960. If any child
or other lineal descendant, so advanced, shall die before the intestate, leaving 
issue, the advancement shall be taken into consideration in the division and
distribution of the estate; and the a.mount thereof shall be allowed accordingly 
by the representatives of the heir so advanced in like manner as if the advance-
ment had been made directly to them. 
SEC. 3961. All questions as to advancements
made or alleged to have been made by the deceased to any heirs may be heard
and determined by the oonnty court, and shall·be specified in the order or judg­
ment assigning the estate and in the warrant to the commissioners to partition
such estate; and the final order or judgment of the county court or, in case of
appeal, of the circuit or supreme court shall be binding on all persons inter- 
ested in the estate. 
SEC. 3962. All persons under the
age of twenty-one years shall be deemed minors, and the county court in each
county may appoint guardians for minors and others subject to guardianship,
being residents in the same county, and also to such as shall reside without
the state and have any estate within the county. If a minor be under the aze
of fourteen years the court may nominate and appoint his guardian; if he be
above the age of fourteen years he may nominate his own guardian, who, if
approved by the court, shall be appointed accordingly. Such nomination shall
be made in the county court by the minor, or if be do not reside within ten
miles of the place of holding the county court, he may sign the application in
the presence of a. justice of the peace of the county in which he resides. The
justice shall certify to the county court that the application is the application
of said minor, signed in his presence, and the court shall be satisfied that the
person appointed is the deliberate choice of such minor. 
SEC. 3963. If the guardian nominated by
such minor shall not be approved by the court or if the minor shall reside out
of this state, or, being a resident of this state, shall be absent therefrom, or if, 
after being req uired by the court, he shall neglect for ten days to nominate a
suitable person the court may nominate and appoint the guardian in the same
manner as if the minor were under the age of fourteen years. 
SEC. 8964. The father of the minor, if living,
and in case of his death the mother, while she remains unmarried, being them­
selves respectively competent to transact their own business and not otherwise
unsuitable, shall be entitled to the custody of the person of the minor and to
the care of his education. If the minor has no father or mother living and
competent and suitable the guardian so appointed shall have the custody of the
person of the minor and the care of bis education; and, in all cases the guardian
shall have the care and management of the estate of his minor ward until such
minor shall arrive at the age of twenty-one years or until the guardian shall
be discharged according to law. 
SEC. 3965. 
The father of every legitimate minor child, if living, and in case of his death
the mother of every such minor child, may, by last will in writing, appoint
a guardian or guardians therefor, whether born at the time of making such
will or afterwards, to continue during the minority of such child or for a less
time. Every such testamentary guardian shall give bond, with surety, in like
manner and with like conditions as hereinafter required of a. guardian ap­
pointed by the county court, and such guardian shall have the same power and
perform the same duties and be subject to the same liabilities with regard to 
the person and estate of the ward as a guardian appointed by the court. Let­
ters of guardianship shall be issued by the county court to such guardian or
guardians upon giving the aforesaid bond, but when the testator or testatrix
m such will shall have so directed no bond need be taken unless the county
court shall be of opinion that the same is required by reason of a change in
the situation of such guardian or other sufficient reason, but no widow. shall!
by any such will, appoint a guardian or guardians when her husband shal
have made a last will and therein appointed a guardian or guardians for his
children. 
SEC. 3966. Before appointing any person guardian
of a minor the court shall require such person to give a bond to the minor, in
such sum and with such sureties as the court shall designate and approve, con­
ditioned as follows: 
1. To make a true inventory of all the estate, real and personal, of his ward
that shall come to his possession or knowledge and to return the same into
the county court of the proper county within such time as the judge shall
order; 
2. To dispose of and manage all such estate according to law and for the
best interests of the ward and faithfully to discharge liis trust in relation
thereto, and also, when required, in relation to the care, custody and education
of the ward; 
8. To render an account on oath of the property, real and personal, of the
ward in his hands and all proceeds or interest derived therefrom and of the
management and disposition of the same, within one year after hls appoint­
ment and annually thereafter, and at such other times as the proper court shall
direct; 
4. At the expiration of his trust to settle his accounts with the county court
or with the ward if he be of full age, or his legal representatives, and to pav
over and deliver all the property, real and personal, remaining in his hands or
doe from him on such settlement to the person lawfully entitled thereto. 
SEC. 3967. The county
court may, at any time, require additional bonds to be given by any guardian
whenever it shall deem it necessary, and may discharge the existing sureties
from future responsibility, after notice given as such court may direct, when
it shall satisfactorily appear that no injury can result therefrom to those in­ 
terested in the estate. 
SEC. 3968.
Every bond given by a guardian shall be filed and recorded in the office of the 
oountv court requiring the same, and in case cf any breach of the condition
thereof may be prosecuted in the name of the ward for the use and benefit of
such ward or of any person interested in the estate whenever the county court
shall direct; and the proceedings in such action may be as provided in respect
to actions on the bonds of executors and administrators. No action shall be 
maintained against the sureties on any bond given by a guardian unless it be 
commenced within four years from the time when the guardian shall have
been discharged. But if, at the time of such discharge, the person entitled to
bring such action shall be under any legal disability to sue the action may be 
commenced at any time within four years 9:fter such disability shall be re­
moved. Any action upon such bond by or in behalf of one ward shall not
bar or in any way affect the right of any other ward or wards interested to
bring and maintain an action thereon, but separate actions or a joint action 
may be maintained thereon by or in behalf of any or all persons interested.
Nor shall any such action impair any other remedy of the ward. No account­
ing in the county court shall be necessary before bringing an action against
sureties when the guardian shall die or remove out of the jurisdiction of the
court appointing him or shall for any reason become incompetent. 
SEC. 3969. When anv 
g-nardian appointed either by a testator or by the county court shall become 
msane, or otherwise incapable of discharging his trust, or evidentlv unsuitable
therefor the county court, after notice to such guardian and all others inter­
ested, may remove him; and every guardian may, upon his own request, be
allowed to resign his trust when it shall appear to the county court proper to 
allow the same; and upon every such resignation or removal and upon the
death of any guardian the county court may appoint another in his place.
SEC. 3969a. Whenever the county
judge shall deem it necessary to require the appearance before the county
court of any guardian appointed therein a citation to such guardian so to ap­
pear at a time certain may be served by publication, upon obtaining an order
therefor, when such guardian has absconded from this state or keeps himself
concealed therein so as to avoid the personal service of a citation, or when he
is a non-resident of this state or has absented himself therefrom for a. period
of one year. The application for the order of publication shall be based upon
a petition, duly verified and filed, stating cause for requiring the appearance
of such guardian in said court and an affidavit showing the facts required to
exist and alleging that personal service of a citation within this state cannot
be made, and stating the postoffice address of such guardian, or that the afflant 
is unable, after due diligence, to ascertain it. The order shall direct that serv­
ice of tho citation be made by J!Ublication thereof in a newspaper, to be desig­
nated as most likelyto give notice to the person to be served, for such length of
time as shall be deemed reasonable, not less than once a week for six weeks,
and that, on or before the day of the first publication, there be deposited in a.
specified postoffice a copy of the citation, together with a copy of the petition
upon which such order of publication was made, securely inclosed in an envel­
ope, the postage duly paid, addressed to such guardian at his postofflce, to be
therein named, or that such deposit may be omitted because the postoflice ad­
dress of such guardian cannot be ascertained. After the making of such an
order personal service of such citation and petition without the state shall have
the same effect as completed publication and mailing. Upon due proof of
oomrliance with said order and at the time fixed in said citation said court
shal proceed to consider such petition and take such proof and grant such re­
lief thereunder as shall be just, and any order, judgment or determination
made by said court in said proceedings shall be binding upon such guardian
and shall be prima facie evidence in all courts of this state of all facts therein
recited. 
SEC. 3970. The marriage of
any female who is under guardianship shall terminate the right and authority
of the guardian as to the custody and education of the ward only; but the
county court may, in its discretion, upon the application of such ward, dis­
charge such guardian and require him to account to said court and pay over
and deliver to such ward all the estate, moneys, credits and effects remaining
in his hands or due from him on such settlement; provided, that no such order
shall be made in any case when the same shall be contrary to or inconsistent 
with the terms of a last will and testament under which such estate is held for
or co-nes to such minor; or may, in its discretion, upon such application, dis­
charge such guardian and appoint another in his place, who shall give bond as 
required bv faw in other cases and to whom such estate, moneys, credits and
effects shall be paid over and delivered, and who shall have the authority con­
ferred by this chapter upon a guardian after the marriage of his ward. 
SEC. 3971. Every general guardian
shall annually render an account under oath and specify therein the amount
of property received by him and re!llaining in his ha!lds or. invested by him, 
and the nature and manner of such mvestment, and his receipts and expendi­
tures during the year; and when anv guardian of a minor shall have the cus­
tody of his ward and the care of his education, and in all cases when required
by the court, he shall state in his annual report the length of time each of his
wards has attended a public school during the year for which the account is
rendered, and shall also report which, if either, of the sureties upon his bond
as such guardian has died or removed from the county during the year for
which the refort is made. Every guardian who fails for thirty days to render
an account o his guardianship when required by the court may be removed
and another apoointed in his place. All letters of guardianship hereafter is­
sued shall have 'attached thereto a oopy of this section. 
SEC. 3972. The county court at the next
regular term thereof, after the filing of any such guardian's account therein,
shall examine the same with the vouchers of the guardian, and if such account
be full and satisfactory it may be entered of record; but if it be not, it shall
be examined on notice and the court shall make such order thereon as justice
may require. 
SEC. 3973. Any minor hav­
ing a guardian, when under fourteen years of age, may, after attaining that
age, have such guardian removed and another appointed in his place, to be
nominated by himself and approved _by the court, upon petitioning the court
therefor. When the newly appointed guardian shall have filed his bond as 
required by law the county court shall cite both guardians to appear before
such court, at a time and place to be fixed in such citation, to settle the ac­
count of the ~uar<lian so removed; and upon such settlement the guardian so
removed shah pay to his successor the balance found due to the ward and de­ 
liver to such successor all pro11erty of the ward remaining in his hands. The
provisions of this section shal not apply to testamentary guardians. 
SEC. 3974. If any minor, who
has a father liv!ng, has _property, the income of which is sufficient for his main­ 
tenance and education m a manner more expensive than his father can reason­
ably afford, regard being had to the situation of the father's family and to all
the circumstances of the case, the expenses of the education and maintenance
of such minor may be defrayed out of the income of his property in whole or
in part, as shall be judged reasonable and be directed by the county court; and
the charges therefor may be allowed accordingly in the settlement of the ac­
counts of his guardian. 
SEC. 8975. 
When any non-resident guardian, appointed in any other state, territory or
country, shall file his original appointment or a copy thereof, together with a
copy of his bond, duly authenticated so as to make the same receivable in evi­
dence, in the proper county court in this state, such court may make suitable
orders discharging any resident guardian, executor or administrator having
control of the property, and authorizing the delivery of such propert1, to such
non-resident guardian, and also requiring receipts to be passed and filed; but
in all cases notice shall be given to the resident guardian, executor or admin­
istrator of the intended application for the order of removal at least twenty
days before the day fixed for the hearing thereof; and the court may refuse to
permit the removal whenever satisfied 1t is for the interest of the ward that
such removal shall not take place. 
SEC. 3976. Whenever it shall be represented to the county court by the .
verified petition of any relative or friend of any insane person or any person
who, by reason of extreme old age or other cause, is mentally incompetent to
have the charge and management of his property, that such person is insane
or so mentally incompetent said court shall cause a notice to be given to the
supposed insane or incompetent person of the time and place of nearing the
case, not less than twenty days before the time so appointed, and shall also
cause such person, if able to attend, to be produced before him on the hearing;
but whenever any such insane person shall be confined in either of the state
hospitals for the insane or any county asylum for the insane in this state such
notice may be served upon the supermtendent of such hospital or asylum, and
such service shall be deemed sufficient in law; and if in the opinion of such
superintendent it shall not be proper to remove such insane person, he shall
certify that fact to the court, and tt shall be deemed a sufficient cause for not
producing such insane person on the hearing. Where a person bas, after due
Judicial examination, been adjudged insane and a commitment issued for his
confinement, upon petition of a relative, friend or creditor, and upon proof, if
the court shall find that a necessity therefor exists, a special guardian for such
insane person shall be appointed forthwith, without notice, with the powers of
a. special administrator. 
SEC. 3977. If, after a full hearing and examination
upon such petition, it shall appear to the county court that the person in ques­
tion is incapable of taking care of himself and managing his property said
court shall appoint a guardian of his parson and estate, with the powers and
duties hereinafter specified. 
SEC. 3978. When any person, by excessive drinking, shall be unable to at­ 
tend to business or shall be lost to self control and shall thereby greatly endan­
ger his health, life or property, or shall be an unsafe person to remain at large,
or shall, by gaming, idleness or debauchery of any kind, so spend, waste or
lessen his estate as to endanger bis own or his family's support or expose the
town to charge or expense for such support any friend or relative, or any su­
pervisor or justice of the peace of the town of which such person is an inhab­
itant may present a verified petition to the county court, setting forth the
facts and circumstances of the case and praying to have a. guardian appointed
for such person. Upon the filing of such petition said court shall cause a no­
tice to be given to such supposed spendthrift of the time and place of hearing
the case, not less than twenty days before the day fixed for such hearing. If, 
after a full hearing, it shall appear to the court proper under this section such
court shall appoint a guardian of his person and estate with the powers and
duties hereinafter specified. 'I'he county court shall have power to authorize
or direct the guardian of any such person named in this section to commit such 
person to any inebriate asylum, in or out of this state, to be designated by such
court, by order, for a term not exceeding two years. Such person may be
discharged at any time by order of the same court. 
SEC. 3979. After the order for notice, as
provided in sections 3976 and 3978, has been issued the petitioner may cause a
copy of the petition, with a copy of the order for such notice, to be filed and
recorded in the office of the register of deeds for the county; and if a guardian
shall be appointed upon such application all contracts, except for necessaries 
at reasonable prices, and all gifts, sales and transfers of real or personal estate
made bv such insane or incompetent person or spendthrift, after the filing of 
a copy "'of such petition and order as aforesaid and before the termination of
the guardianship, shall be void. 
SEC. 3979a. Whenever
any person who is or may be a patient in any hospital for the insane in this
state shall appear to the satisfaction of the superintendent of such hospital to
be incurable, and it shall appear that he has property within this state, that
be has no wife or children who would be dependent upon him for support, if
sane, and that he has no guardian, such superintendent shall apply to the pro­
bate court of the county m which such patient resided at the time of his com­
mitment for the appointment of a guardian of his person and estate, and the
court, upon such application, shall proceed to the appointment of such guardian
in the same manner as is or may be provided for the appointment of guardians
of the persons and estate of minors. Such guardian, when appointed, shall
have and exercise the same powers and duties as are or may be by law con­
ferred upon guardians of minors, and may sell any real or personal estate, the
property of such insane person, in the same manner and for the same purposes 
as is or may be provided by law for the sale by guardians of ~inors of the
real or personal estate of their wards. Suoh sale shall be made m the countv
where such estate is situated, and the proceeds thereof shall be paid into tb'e
treasury of the state or county for the use and benefit of such insane person
and be applied to his use and support in such hospital; upon his discharge
therefrom the residue, if any, of such proceeds shall be paid to him or bis
guardians; and if such insane person dies in such hospital, then such residue
shall be paid to his legal representatives. The word hospital, as used in this section, shall be construed to include county asylums for the chronic insane. 
SEC. 3980. When any person
liable to be put under guardianship, according to the provisions of this chap­
ter, shall reside out of this state and shall have any estate therein any friend
of such person or any one interested in his estate, in expectancy or otherwise,
may apply to the county court of any county in which there may be any estate
of such absent person, and after notice given to all persons interested, in such
manner as the court shall order, and after a frill hearing and examination, if
it shall appear proper, such court may appoint a guardian for such absent
person. The guardianship which shall be first lawfully granted of any person
residing out of this state shall extend to all the estate of the ward within
the same and shall exclude the jurisdiction of the county court in every other 
county. 
SEC. 3981. When a guardian shall be appointed for an insane or incompetent person
or spendthrift or for any non-resident the court shall make an allowance to be
paid by the guardian out of the estate of his ward for all reasonable expenses
mcurr~d -b.v the ward in defending himself against the petition. Every such
guardian shall have the care and custody of the person of the ward and the
management of his estate until legally discharged therefrom; and shall give
bond to the judge of the county court in like manner and with like condition
as before prescribed with respect to the guardian of a minor, excepting that
the provisions of the bond of a guardian of a non-resident respecting the in­
ventory, the disposal of the estate and effects and the account to be rendered
shall be confined to such estate and effects as shall come to his hands in this
state. 
SEC. 3981a. Whenever a guardian or friend
of any insane, incompetent or imbecile person residing in thia state shall pre­
sent to the county court of the county wherein such person resides his verified
petition setting. forth that such person is addicted to any lewd, lascivious or
indecent conduct or behavior, or that any person of the sex opposite to that
of such person is accustomed to visit him for immoral purposes, and praying
that be be confined in some suitable place such county court shall make an
order appointing a time and place for hearing such petition, which shall not
be less than ten or more than twenty days after the filing of such petition,
commanding the sheriff of such county to apprehend and bring him before
such county court at the time and place appointed. Before hearing such pe­ 
tition such court shall appoint a disinterested attorney at law guardian ad litem
to represent such person upon such hearing. The county court shall hear said
petition summarily and cause the evidence given upon the hearing to be re­
duced to writing. 
SEC. 3981b. If, after a full hearing and ex­
amination upon such petition, it shall appear that the petition is true and that
the welfare of such insane, incompetent or imbecile person requires that he or
she be kept in close custody the court shall make and cause to be delivered to 
the superintendent of the countv asylum for the chronic insane of such oountv
an order in writing requiring him forthwith to take and confine such person,
and in case there is no such asylum in such county, then the court shall make
a similar order to such superintendent of the county asylum for the chronic
insane in such other county as shall be designated by the state board of con­
trol in accordance with the provisions of section 640e of these statutes. He
shall be subject to the direction of the court and shall receive such care, atten­
tion and treatment as the court shall deem necessary. All expenses incurred
in the confining, taking care of and maintaining such person, when properlv
certified to by the county judge, shall be paid out of his estate so long as such
estate is sutlicient to pay the same. But in case he shall not have any estate 
sufficient for such purpose all such expenses, when so certified, shall be audited
by the county board and paid out of the county treasury of the county of his 
residence, 
SEC. 39h2. Every guardian appointed under the pro­
visions of this chapter shall pay the just debts of the ward out of bis personal
estate and. tho income of his real estate, if sufficient, and if not, then out of 
his real estate upon selling the same as provided by law. Unless special pro-
, vision be made all proceedings for the presentation, allowance and adjustment 
of claims and demands against persons under guardianship shall be had and
made as provided in these statutes relating to the estates of decedents. Such
guardian shall settle all accounts of the ward and may demand, sue for, col­
lect and receive all debts due to him, or may, with the approbation of the
county court, compound and discharge the same on receiving a fair and just
dividend from the debtor's estate, and shall appear for and represent his ward
in all actions and proceedings except where _another person is appointed for
that purpose. Such guardian may also, with the approval of the oountv judge, 
· adjust, compromise and discharge any and all claims for damages w"hich his
ward may have; and any compromise and discharge of such claims heretofore
made in good faith by any such guardian with such approval is hereby de­
clared valid. If the general guardian of anv person who has been adjudged
insane in this state shall petition the county "'court of the county wherein such
insane person resides, alleging that his said ward is insolvent and giving a state­
ment of the property of said ward and an itemized statement of his debts so
far as known to said guardian, thereupon the court shall take proofs, and if
upon such proofs the court find that said insane person is insolvent it shall
forthwith issue an order to the creditors of said insane person to file their
claims for adjustment, and after such finding of insolvency the same proceed­ 
ings shall be had as are had in the county courts for settlement of the debts
of a deceased person as provided in chapter 165; provided, that nothing in
this section shall authorize the sale of the homestead of such insane person. 
SEC. 8983. Everv guardian
shall manage the estate of his ward frugally and without waste and apply the
income and profits thereof, as far as may be necessary, for the suitable educa­
tion, maintenance and support of the ward and his family, if there be any. If
such income and profits shall be insufficient for that purpose the guardian may
sell the real estate, upon obtaining a license therefor as provided by law, and
shall apply the proceeds of such sale, so far as may be necessary, for such main­
tenance and support as aforesaid. 
SEC. 3984. Every guardian may join in and
assent to a partition of the real estate of his ward in the cases and in the man­
ner provided by law; and he may also assign and set out dower in the said
estate to any widow entitled thereto. 
SEC. 3986. The county
courts, in their respective counties, on the application of a guardian or of anv
person interested in the estate of any ward, after such notice to all persons in­ 
terested therein as the court shall direct, may authorize or require the guardian
to sell and transfer any stock in public funds or in any bank or other corpora­
tion, or any other personal estate or effects held by him as guardian and to
invest the proceeds of such sale and also any other moneys in his hands in real
estate or in any other manner that shall be most for the interest of all con­
cerned therein; and the said oourt may make such further orders and give
such directions as the case may require for managing, investing and disposing
of the estate and effects in the hands of the guardian. 
SEC. S&OTioN 3987. The guardian of any insane or in­
competent person or spendthrift may be discharged by the county court when
it shall appear to such court, on the application of the ward or otherwise, that.
such guardianship is no longer necessary, and his real and personal estate shall
be restored to him. 
SEC. 3988. In case of the death of any in­
sane or incompetent person or spendthrift, while under guardianship, the power
of the guardian shall cease, and his real estate shall descend to his heirs and
his personal estate be distributed in the same manner as if he had been of sound 
mind and memory. 
SEC. 3989. Upon complaint made
to the county court by any guardian or ward, or by any creditor or other per­
son interested in the estate, or by any person having any prospective interest
therein, as heir or otherwise, against any person suspected of having concealed,
embezzled or conveyed away any of the money, goods, effects or mstruments
in writing belonging to the ward the court may cite and examine such sus­
pected person and proceed with him as to such charge in the same manner as
is provided with respect to eersons suspected of concealing or embezzling the 
effects of a deceased person m sections 3825 and 3826. 
SEC. 3990. The county court, in its discre­
tion, whenever the same shall appear necessary, may appoint more than one
guardian of any person subject to guardianship, who shall give bond and be
governed and liable in all respects as is l?rovided respecting a sole guardian.
An account rendered by two or more jomt guardians may be allowed by the
oounty court upon the oath of either.
SEC. 3991. The guardian of any person is
authorized and empowered to make leases of and grant easements upon the
lands of any such person in the same manner, for the same purpose an<l with
the same effect as such person might do if of full age and under no legal disa­
bility. But any estate, lease, right or easement granted by any such: guard­
ian shall terminate with the guardianship or disability of the ward,
SEC. 3992. No married woman
shall be disqualified by coverture from being appointed or acting as a general
guardian, trustee, executrix er administratrix in any case whatsoever; and ac­
tions may be maintained upon any bond of such guardian, trustee, executrix
or administratrix who shall have been so appointed in the same manner and·
with the same effect as upon the bonds of other guardians, trustees, executors
or administrators. Every such guardian, trustee, executrix or administratrix
shall have the same powers ancf be subject to the same liabilities as other
guardians, trustees, executors or administrators. 
SEC. 3993. Every guard­
ian shall be allowed the amount of his reasonable expenses incurred in the exe­
cution of his trust and he shall also have such compensation for his services as
the court in which his accounts are settled shall deem to be just and reason­
able. The court may allow the sum paid by the guardian for his bond, as pro­ 
vide<l in section 2932. 
SEC. 8994. The word "spendthrift," when used
in this chapter, is intended to include every person who is liable to be put
under guardianship on account of excessive drinking, gaming, idleness or
debauchery. 
SEC. 3995. Nothing contained in this chapter
shall affect or impair the power of any court to appoint a guardian to prose­
cute or defend the interests of any minor impleaded in such court or interested
in any action or proceeding pending therein. 
SEC. 3995a. Any instrument in writ­
ing signed and sealed by any person who, when an infant, was under guardian­
ship, whereby such person shall state that he is twe!lty-one years of age or 
more, and shall acknowledge therein that he has received money or property
from bis guardian in partial or full satisfaction of his demands against such
guardian, on being attested by two subscribing witnesses and certified to by
an officer authorized to certify to acknowledgments of conveyances of land, 
may be recorded in the office of the county judge of the county in which said
guardian was appointed, and such judge shall, when required, receive and re­
cord all such instruments. 
SEC. 3995b. The guardian or cred­
itor of any person under guardianship by virtue of the laws of this state may, 
by verified petition, apply to the county court of the county where such ward
resides for an examination and adjustment of the claims and demands of all
persons against such ward. Such court shall thereupon, by order, fix a time
and place when and where it will receive, examine and adjust such claims, and
shall fix a time within which all claims against such ward must be rresented
or be thereafter barred, and sliallbv such order direct that notice o the time 
and place so fixed and limited be gi,·en to all parties interested by publication 
of the substance of such order in a newspaper, as provided by section 404-5, for
four successive weeks. The first publication shall be within fifteen days from
the date of such order, and the time limited for the presentation of claims shall
not be less than six months from the date of such order. Such time mav be
extended as provided by law in the case of deceased persons, and any claim of
the ward against a creditor may be exhibited in offset to the claim of such 
creditor, and the court shall adjust and ascertain the balarice, whether due the
creditor or the ward, and render judgment accordingly, and may enforce the
judgment by execution or otherwise, All proceedings relating to the presenta­
tion, allowance and payment of claims and demands against any ward shall
be substantially like those provided by law in relation to the 'estates of deced­
ents, so far as applicable, unless otherwise provided herein. After the court
shall have by its order fixed a time and place and limited the time within
which claims may be presented, examined and adjusted against any ward no
suit shall be commenced or maintained in any court against such ward upon
any such claim as the county court has exclusive jurisdiction of in the settle­
ment of the estates of deceased persons. 
SEC. 3996. The guard­
ian of any ward may sell, mortga~e or lease the real estate of his ward or any 
interest therein, upon obtaining license therefor from the county court and
proceeding therein as provided m this chapter, in the following cases: 
1. When the personal property and the income of the real estate are to­ 
gather insufficient for the payment of the debts of the ward or for the main­
tenance and education of tbe ward and his family; 
2. When the interests of the ward require or will be substantially promoted
by such disposition, on account of such real estate or interest therein being ex­
posed to waste or dilapidation or being unproductive, or for other peculiar rea­
sons or circumstances. 
In any application under the first subdivision of this section the court may
order the real estate of the ward to be mortgaged or leased. 
SEC. 3997. In order to obtain license as provided
in this chapter the guardian shall present to the county court by which he was
appointed a verified petition therefor setting forth the condition and descrip­
tion of the estate of his ward and the facts and circumstances on which the 
petition is founded, tending to show the
position. 
SEC. 3999. All those who are next of kin and heirs
apparent or presumptive of the ward shall be regarded as interested in the es­ 
tate and may appear as such and answer to the petition of the guardian; and
a copy of such order shall be personally served on all persons interested in the
estate at least twenty days before the day fixed for the hearing of the petition,
or such order, or a notice of hearing in substantially the form prescribed in section 4050, shall be published, at least three successive weeks, before the day
of such hearing, in a newspaper as provided in section 4045, as the court di­
rects by such order.
SEC. 4000. No such license shall be
granted for the sale of any real estate of a ward residing in this state, except­
ing that of a minor, unless the supervisors of the town, the mayor of the citv
or president of the village in which such ward is an inhabitant shall certify,
in writing, their approbation of such proposed sale.
SEC. 4001. The county court, at
the time and place appointed in such order or at such other time as the hear­
ing shall be adjourned to, upon proof of the due service of the order or notice
bv publication or otherwise, as required by the order, and upon filing the cer­
tificate of approbation of tho supervisors, mayor or president, when necessary 
shall hear and examine the proofs and allegations of the petitioner and of the
next of kin, and all t>ersons interested in the estate who shall think proper to
oppose the application. On such hearing the guardian and others may be
examined on oath as witnesses by either party, and process to compel their
attendance may be issued by the court or judge in the same manner and with
like effect as in other cases. 
SEC. 4-002. If after a full examination it shall appear to the
court either that it is necessary or that it would be for the interest of the ward
that tho real estate or any part of it should be sold, mortgaged or leased such
court may grant a license therefor, specifying whether it is to be made for the
payment of debts, or for the maintenance of the ward or his family, or for the
education of the ward or his children, or in order that the proceeds may be
put at interest or otherwise invested. No such license shall be in force more
than one year after granting the same, but the court may, O!} application of
the guardian, for cause shown, renew the same for such period as the court
shall deem proper, not-exceeding two years from the date of such license. The
guardian may make plats as provided by section 3883. 
SEC. 4003. If it shall be represented by the guard­
ian in his petition and shall satisfactorily appear to the court that it is neoes­
sary to sell some part of the real estate of the ward, and that by such partial
sale the residue of the real estate or of some specific piece or part thereof would
be greatly injured, the court may license a sale of the whole of the estate or
of such yart thereof as the court shall judge necessary and most for the inter­
est of al concerned. 
SEC. 4004. Every guardian, domestio
or foreign, licensed to sell real estate as provided in this chapter shall, before
the sale, give bond to the judge of the county court with sufficient sureties, to 
be approved by the court, witb condition to sell the same in the manner pre­
scribed by law and to account for and dispose of all the proceeds of the sale
according to law. He shall also, before making such sale, take and subscribe
the oath prescribed by section 3915; which oath shall be filed with the county
court before the sale is confirmed. 
SEC. 4005. When a sale is authorized notice
of the time and place of holding the same shall be posted in three of the most
public places in the town or ward in which the land is situated, and shall be
published in a newspaper as provided in section 4045 for three successive weeks
before such sale, the last publication to be not more than ten days before the
time fixed, in which notice the lands to be sold shall be described with reason­
able certainty. The giving of such notice may be proved by affidavit of any
person harin~ knowledge of the fact, and when such affidavit, together with
a copy of suon notice, is filed with the county court the same shall be received 
as evidence of the time, place and manner of giving such notice. This ceotion
shall apply to sales by both domestic and foreign guardians. 
SEC. 4006. The ·sale shall be in the county where the lands are situated, be­
tween the hours of nine o'clock in the forenoon and the setting of the sun of
the same day. But where the lands are adjacent and lie in two or more coun­
ties the sale may be had in either, but the court shall by order designate in 
which. If there be a newspaper printed in more than one of said counties the
oourt shall direct in which of such newspapers the notice of sale shall be pub­
lished, and when so published it shall be suffloient, 
SEC. 4007. If at the time ar pointed
for any such sale the guardian shall deem it best for the interest o all con­
oemed he may adjourn the same from time to time, not exceeding three months
in all. Notice of such .adjournment shall be given by a public declaration
thereof at the time and place first fixed for the sale. If the adjournment is for
more than one day further notice shall be given by posting or publishing the 
same, or both, as the time and circumstances may admit. 
SEC. 4008. If the estate is sold for the purpose
mentioned in the first subdivision of section 3996 the guardian may apply the
proceeds of the sale to such purpose, so far as necessary, and shall invest the
residue, if any, under the direction of the court granting the license to sell, in
the best manner in his power, until the principal shall be required for the
maintenance of the ward and his family, or the e.Iucation of the ward when a
minor, or the children of the ward, when the principal may be used for that
purpose, so far as may be necessary, in like manner as if it had been personal
estate of the ward. ff the estate is sold for the purpose mentioned in the sec­ 
ond subdivision of said section the guardian shall invest the proceeds according 
to bis best judgment under the direction of the court. 
SEC. 4009. When any person, residing without this
state, shall be put under guardianship in the state, territory or country in
which he resides and shall ham no guardian appointed in this state the foreizn
guardian may file a copy of his appointment, duly authenticated so as to make
the same receivable in evidence, in the county court in any county in this state 
in which there may be real estate of the ward. After filing such authenticated 
copy such foreizn guardian may be licensed by such court to lease, mortg:lge
or sell the real estate of the ward in this state in the same manner and upon 
the same terms and conditions and for the same purposes as prescribed in this  chapter in the case of a guardian appointed in this state.
SEC. 4010. The guardian, making
any sale as provided herein, shall immediately thereafter make a return of his
-doings upon the order of sale by virtue of which it was made to the county
court granting the order. Said court shall examine the proceedings and may
examine parties and witnesses on oath touching the sale, and may confirm or 
vacate the sale, as shall be deemed just. In case such sale is vacated another
may be orlered. 
SEC. 4011. In every case of the sale
of real estate as provided in this chapter the residue of the proceeds, if any,
remaining upon the final settlement of the accounts of the guardianship shall 
be considered as real estate of the ward and shall be disposed of among the
-same persons and in the same proportions as the real estate would have been 
if it had not been so sold.
SEC. 4012. No sale of any lands of any minor made
prior to the fourth day of April, one thousand eight hundred and seventy, in 
pursuance of any order of any court under chapter 93 of the revised statutes
of one thousand eight hundred and fifty-eight, or chapter 64 of the revised
statutes of one thousand eight hundred and forty-nine, shall be held invalid if
the bond required to be given by the guardian was given before the sale and
the guardian took and subscribed the oath required at any time before the sale,
and the purchaser paid the purchase price in good faith, by reason of not hav­
ing filed such bond or taken and filed such oath in due season. 
SEC. 4013. All bonds re­
quired by law to be taken in or by order of the county court shall be for such 
sum and with such sureties as the court shall direct, except when otherwise
provided by law. Such bonds shall be for the security and benefit of all per­
sons interested and shall be taken to the judge of the county court, except
where they are required bv law to be taken to the adverse party. No such
bond shall be deemed sufficient unless it shall have been examined and ap­
proved by the judge and his approval indorsed thereon in writing and signed
by him; but his failure so to do shall not render the bond void. 
SEC. 4014. Actions may be. brought on the bonds of exec­
utors, administrators and testamentary trustees by permission of the county
court in the following cases: 
1. By any creditor when the amount due him has been ascertained and or­
dered paid by suoh court, if the executor, administrator or trustee shall neg­
lect to pay the same when demanded; 
2. By any legatee, next of kin or other person to recover his share of the
personal estate, after the county court has, by order or judgment, declared the
amount due to him, if the executor, administrator or trustee shall fail to pay
the same when demanded; 
3. By any creditor, next of kin, legatee or other person aggrieved by any
maladministration, when it shall appear that the executor, administrator or
trustee has failed to perform his duty in any other particular; 
4. Whenever an executor, administrator or trustee shall refuse or neglect to
perform any order or judgment made by the county court having jurisdiction
for rendering an account, or upon a final settlement, or for the pavment of
debts, legacies or distributive shares, the judge of such court shall ca.use the
bond of such executor, administrator or trustee to be prosecuted for the ben­
efit of all concerned, and the money collected thereon shall be applied in satis­
faction of such order or judgment in the same manner as such money ought
to have been applied by such executor, administrator or trustee. 
The provisions of section 3968 shall also apply to such actions. 
SEC. 4015. All actions upon bonds taken to the judge
of the county- court shall be brou~ht in the name of such judge in office at the
time the action is commenced, when the same are brought under the fourth subdivision of the preceding section. When the action shall be brought under
either of the other subdivisions of said section it may be brought in the name
of said judge oe of the party in interest. In either case, if judgment is ren­
dered for the plaintiff, it shall be for the amount found due and costs of suit;
and if the action is in the name of the judge the judgment shall specify the
amount found due to each particular person for whose benefit it is brought. 
SEC. 4016.
-On the application of any person authorized by this chapter to commence an 
action on such bond the county court may grant permission to such person to
prosecute the same, and shall thereupon furnish to the applicant a certified
copy of such bond, together with a certificate that permission has been granted
to such person to prosecute, stating his name and residence. 
SEC. 4017. If judgment shall be rendered for the plaintiff
in any action upon such bond, broughtby the judge of the county court for any
breach thereof in not performin~ any order or judgment of the county court,
as mentioned in the fourth subdivision of section 4014 such judgment shall be
rendered for the full value of all the estate that shall have come to the hands
of such executor, administrator or trustee and for which he shall not have sat­
isfactorily accounted, and for all each damages as shall have been occasioned
by his neglect or maladministration, with costs of suit. But no judgment or
execution against t~e sureties in any bond shall exceed the amount of the pen­
alty thereof, exclusive of costs.
SEC. 4018. All moneys recovered on any
judgment in favor of the judge of the county court, as mentioned in the next
preceding section, shall be paid over to such person, other than the def end­
ant therein, who shall then be the rightful executor, administrator or trustee,
and such moneys shall be assets in his hands to be administered according to 
law; but if there be no executor, administrator or trustee, other than the de­ 
fendant, such moneys shall be paid to the persons entitled thereto upon their
giving receipts therefor, which receipts shall be filed with the county court. 
SEC. 4019. Claims for darnazes on account
of the breach of the conditions of any bond may be prosecuted by any exec­
utor, administrator, testamentary trustee or guardian in behalf of those he 
may represent in the same manner as by persons living and of full age; and
such claims may be prosecuted against the representatives of deceased persons
in the same manner as other claims against such deceased persons. 
SEC. 4:020. No action brought upon the bond of any executor, administrator or testa­
mentary trustee shall be barred or dismissed by reason merely that anv former
action shall have been prosecuted on such bond, but any payment of damages
made or collected from the sureties or any of them on any judgment in an
action ereviously begun by any party on such bond shall be applied as a total 
or partial discharge of the liability thereon; and such partial defense may be
pleaded by answer or supplemental answer as may be proper. The court may t 
when it shall be necessary for the protection of such sureties, stay execution
on any judgment rendered in such action until the final determination of any
action so previously commenced and until the final determination of any other
action commenced before judgment entered in any such action. 
SEC. 4021. Any inhabitant of
this state may petition the oounty court in the county of his residence for
leave to adopt a child not his own by birth; but no such petition made by a
married person shall be granted unless the husband or wife of the petitioner
s.hall join therein, excepting that when such petitioner shall be married to the
natural father or mother of such child then such joinder by such father or
mother shall be deemed unnecessary; nor shall any such petition be granted
unless the child, if of the age of fourteen years or more, shall consent thereto
in writing in the presence of the court. And such child may be adopted after
arriving at the age of twenty-one yea.rs as well as before reaching that age.
SEC. 4022. No such adop­
tion shall be made without the written consent of the living parents of such
child unless the court shall find that one of the parents has abandoned the child
or gone to parts unknown, when such consent may be given by the parent, if 
any, havin~ the care of the child. In case where neither of the parents is liv­ 
ing, or if hving have abandoned the child, such consent may be given by the
guardian of such child, if any. If such child has no guardian such consent may 
be given by any of the next of kin of such child residing in this state or, in the
discretion of the court, by some suitable person to be appointed by the court.
In case of a. child not born in lawful wedlock such consent may be given by
the mother, if she is living and has not abandoned such child; provided, that
unless the living parent or parents of a minor consent to such adoption it shall
be the duty of the court having jurisdiction of the proceedings, upon the filing
of any petition for adoption, by order to appoint a time and place for hearing
such petition and cause.notice of such time and place to be given to such parent
or parents by personal service of said not.ice on such parent or parents at least
ten days before the hearing or by publication thereof in a newspaper at least
three weeks successively pr10r to said hearing, and when notice is duly given
as herein provided the parent of any minor shall be bound by the order of
adoption as fully as though he had consented thereto. And in case such child
has arrived at the age of twenty-one years such consent may be girnn by such
child alone, and the consent of no other person in behalf of such child shall be 
required. 
SEC. 4023. If, upon such
petition and consent as herein provided, the county court shall be satisfied of
the identity and relations of the persons and that the petitioners are of suffi­
cient ability to bring up and furnish suitable nurture and education for the
child, having reference to the degree and condition of its parents, and that it
is proper that such adoption shall take effect, such court shall make an order,
reciting said facts, that from and after the date thereof such child shall be
deemed to all legal intents and purposes the child of the petitioners; and by
such order the name of such child may be changed to that of the parents by
adoption. 
SEC. 4-024. A child so adopted shall be 
deemed, for the purposes of inheritance and succession by such child, custody
of the person and right to obedience by such parents by adoption, and all other
legal consequences and incidents of the natural relation of parents and chil­
dren the same to all intents and purposes as if the child had been born in law­
ful wedlock of such parents by adoption, excepting that such child shall not be 
capable of taking property expressly limited to the heirs of the body of such
parents. The natural parents of such child shall be deprived, by such order of
adoption, of all legal rights whatsoever respecting such child and such child
shall be freed from all legal obligations of maintenance and obedience to such
natural parents, except that where the adopted earent of such child shall be
married to one of the natural parents of such child then the relation of such
child toward such natural parent so married to the adopted parent shall be in
no way altered by such adoption, and the mutual rights and obligations of
such natural and adopted parent toward such ohild shall be the same as if such
child were the natural child of both the natural parent and the adopted parent. 
SEC. 4025. Every trustee to
whom anv estate, real or personal, shall be devised or bequeathed in trust for
any minor or other person by the will of any deceased person, or who may be
appointed by any county court to carry out the provisions of any will which
creates a trust without naming a trustee shall give bond to the county judge 
having jurisdiction of the probate of the will in such sum and with such sure-
ties as the court may order, conditioned as follows: . · 
1. To make and return to the county court; within such time as the court
shall direct, a true iuventory of all the goods, chattels, rights, credits and es­
tate so devised or bequeathed; 
2. To annnallv render an account to such court of the trust estate in his
hands, of the management, disposition and annual income thereof; 
3. To faithfullv execute such trust under the direction of the court accord- ·
ing to the true intent and meaning thereof; · 
4. To adjust and settle his accounts with such court at the expiration of bis
trust and pay and deliver to the person entitled thereto all balances, money
and property in his possession and for which he is liable as such trustee. But
if the testator in his will has directed that no bond be required of such trustee
none need be given by him unless the court, at the time of proving the will or
thereafter, shall determine that a bond is required by a change in the circum­
stances or situation of the trustee or for other sufficient reason. 
The cost of procuring a bond may be allowed the trustee, as provided in sec­ 
tion 2932
SEC. 4026. Any person appointed trustee by
any will who shall refuse to give the bond herein required or neglect to do
so for twenty days after receiving notice that such bond is required shall be 
deemed to have declined such trust. 
SEC. 4027. If anv
trustee aprointed in any will not containing a provision for perpetuating the 
trust shal refuse to accept the same, or shall resign, be removed or die, or
if a trust be created by the will and no trustee be therein named to execute
such trnst a trustee may be appointed by the county court, after notice to the
per.;ons interested in such trust estate. Every trustee so appointed by the
court shall be bound by the provisions of this chapter in the same manner and 
to the same extent as though appointed by will, and the estate so girnn in
trust shall vest in such trustee in like manner, to all intents and purposes, as
the same vested in the original trustee named in such will, and he may de­
mand, sue for and recover from any other person holding the same any and
all property belonging to such trust estate. 
SEC. 4028. Any trustee so appointed by will
or by the court may, upon a request in writing, be permitted to resign the
trust if the court shall think it expedient. 
SEC. 4029. Any trustee who shall become disqual­
ified by insanity or incapacity, or who shall be evidently unsuitable to perform
his duties as such trustee, or who shall neglect or refuse to comply with the 
provisions of this chapter shall be removed by the court after notice to such
trustee and other parties interested. 
SEC. 4030. The county court, on aprlica.tion of any such trustee or 
any person interested, may, after notice to al parties in interest, authorize
and require such trustee to sell any property so held in trust in such manner
as the court may direct and to invest the proceeds of such sale in such man­
ner as will be most for the interest of all concerned therein; and such court
may from time to time make such orders and decrees as i~ may deem just and
reasonable in relation to the sale, management, in vestment and disposition of
such trust property and to the settlement of the accounts of such trustee, but no
such order shall be made in violation of the terms of the trust. To keep the
trust property from being removed out of the state or improperly or illegally
used or invested the county court shall have the same power as circuit courts 
to issue the writ of ne exeat and injunctions. 
SEC. 4031. In a.11 cases not otherwise pro­
vided for any executor, administrator, guardian, trustee or any person ag­ 
grieved by a.ny order, judgment, decree, determination or denial of the county
court or commissioners appointed by the county court to receive, examine and 
pass upon claims against the estates of deceased persons may appeal therefrom
to the circuit court for the same county by filing a notice thereof with said
county court within sixty days from the date of the act appealed from, or if
the appeal be from the action of the commissioners, within sixty days after
tbe tiling of their report with the county court, together with such undertak­
ing as is required in the next section. But no appeal shall be allowed from
the action of the court or commissioners in allowing or disallowing any claim
unless a. part thereof in dispute. amounting to at least twenty dollars, shall
ham been allowed or d isal lowcd. The appeal of any child from an order of
adopt.ion may be taken bv any person on his behalf. In all other cases tho
appeal of a11y minor may be taken in and prosecuted in the name of the gen- 
eral guardian of such minor or by a. guardian ad litem appointed for that pur­
pose.
SEC. 4032. The party appealing, other than an executor,
administrator, guardian, trustee or alleged insane or incompetent rerson, shall,
at the time of filing notice of appeal and before his appeal shal be effectual
for any purpose, fife with the county court an undertaking in such sum and
with such surety as the judge thereof shall approve, to the effect that he will
diligently prosecute his appeal to effect and pay all damages and costs which
may be awarded against him on such appeal; but no bond shall be required
of nor costs awarded against any child, or person acting in behalf of a child,
on an appeal from an order of adoption. 
SEC. 4033.
The appellant shall give notice of the appeal to such adverse party, and in such 
manner as the county court shall direct, within ten days after taking the same,
and the county judge shall, within twenty days after the appeal is taken, file 
in the circuit court a certified copy of the record and proceedings appealed
from, together with the notice of appeal and undertaking and proof of service
o~ the notice of appeal on the adverse party, according to the order of the
county court. 
SEC. 4034. When such certified copy, notice of
appeal, undertaking and the evidence that the notice of appeal has been given
to the adverse party shall have been filed in the circuit court the appeal may
be brought to trial in the same manner as actions originally brought therein,
and the court shall proceed to the trial and the determination of the matter
according to the rules of law, allowing a trial by jury of all questions of fact,
in oases where such trial may be proper; and such court may direct an issue
to be made up between the parties in a brief form, when it shall be deemed
necessary, and appeals may be taken to the supreme court as in other cases.
SEC. 4035. If any person ag­
grieved by any act of the county court or commissioners to examine claims
shall, from any cause without fault on his part, have omitted to take his appeal
according- to law the circuit court of the same county may, if it shall appear
that justice requires a revision of the case, on the petition of the party aggrieved
and upon such terms and within such time as it shall deem reasonable, allow
an appeal to be taken and prosecuted in like manner and with the same effect
as thouzh done seasonably. No such appeal shall be allowed without reason­
able notice to the party adversely interested, nor unless the petition therefor
shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit court within one vear after
the act complained of. Whenever the· circuit court shall allow or disallow an
appeal, as provided in this section, the party aggrieved may appeal to the su­ 
preme court. 
SEC. 4036. After an appeal is claimed and notice
thereof given at the office of the county judge all further proceedings in pursu­
ance of the act appealed from shall cease until the appeal shall be determined. 
SEC. 4037. The circuit court may reverse or affirm in whole
or in part the act appealed from and may render such judgment as may be
proper or make such order therein as the county court ought to have made,
and may remit the case to the county court for further proceedings in pursu­
ance of the opinion of the circuit court, or may make any order, or take any 
action therein, or enforce its own judgment, as such circuit court may deem
best. In any case appealed to the supreme court such court may remit the
same to the county court in its discretion, when no further proceedings are re­
quired in the circuit court. In all cases the county court, after such cause is
remitted, shall proceed therein as directed by the court remitting the same. 
SEC. 4038. If the appellant
shall fail to prosecute his appeal with reasonable dili~ence the circuit court,
on the motion of any person interested in the case, shall dismiss the appeal or
affirm the judgment or act appealed from, as such court shall deem just, and 
may allow costs against the appellant; and when such appeal is from the dis­
allowance of any claim such claim shall be forever barred. 
SEC. 4039.
When an executor or administrator declines to appeal from the allowance of
any claim against the.estate he represents, in a case where an appeal may be 
taken, any person interested in such estate as oreditor, devisee, legatee or heir
may appeal fr«:n such allowance in the same manner as the executor or ad­
ministrator might have done; and the proceedings on such appeal shall be con­
ducted in the name of the executor or administrator. But to render the appeal
effectual for any purpose the person so appealing shall, at the time of filing the
notice of appeal, file with the countv court an· undertaking in such sum and
with such sureties as said court shall direct and approve, to secure the estate
from all damages and costs in consequence of such appeal and to secure the in­
tervening damages and costs to the adverse party. 
SEC. 4040. When an execu­
tor or administrator shall have a claim against the estate which he represents
which shall be disallowed and be shall take an a1 peal therefrom to the circuit
court, notice of such appeal shall be given to al concerned by personal serv­
ice thereof or by publication under an order of the county court in a news- 
. paper as provided in section 4045, for three successive weeks, the last publica­
tion to be at least four week before the hearing of the appeal 
SEC. 4041. In all contested matters, 
proceedings and cases tried before the county court or before commissioners
appointed by the county court, where an appeal lies to the circuit court, such
county court may award costs, including attorney fees to the prevailing party,
in its discretion, to be paid by the other part.v or to be paid out of the estate
which is the subject of the controversy as justice and equity may require; and
when costs are allowed they shall be taxed at the same rates allowed for like
services in the circuit court; but the attorney fees shall in no case exceed
twenty-five dollars and shall be allowed only when an attorney of a court of
record appears for the prevailing party. Whenever the county court shall
allow costs as provided in this section such court shall enter judgment there­
for in favor of the estate or party prevailing in such matter or proceeding
and against the losing party in a hook to be kept by such court for that pur­
pose, to be called a judgment book. Such judgment shall clearly state in
whose favor and against whom the same is rendered and the amount thereof
and a list of the items making such amount shall be filed with the papers in 
the case. 
SEC. 404la. When a decree or judgment
is made upon a contested application for probate or revocation of probate of
a will costs payable out of the estate or otherwise shall not be awarded to an 
. unsuccessful contestant of the will unless he is a special guardian for an infant
appointed by the county or circuit judge or is named as an executor in a paper
propounded by him in good faith as toe last will of the decedent. 
SEC. 4042. In all cases mentioned in
the preceding section the county court may, in its discretion, require the claim­
ant, or contestant, or other person to give security for costs. Such security
shall be a written undertaking, in such sum and with such surety as shall be
approved by the county court, to the effect that such surety will pay all costs
that may be awarded by such court in such proceeding against the claimant
or contestant. A judgment for costs against the claimant or contestant may
also be rendered against the surety in such undertaking. 
SEC. 4043. All judg­
ments for costs or for costs and a balance found due an estate against a per­
son presenting a claim against such estate, entered by the county court
pursuant to the provisions of law, shall have the same force and effect as judg­
ments in the circuit court, and may be enforced by execution at any time 
within five years after the rendition thereof, and at any time within fifteen
years after· said five years, upon leave given by such court, upon reasonable
notice to the judgment debtor. All such executions shall be signed by the
judge, and sealed with the seal of the court, and state the amount due upon
such judgment, and shall be directed to the sheriff of the proper county, com­
manding him to satisfy the same, with interest and costs thereon, out of the
goods, chattels, lands and tenements of the judgment debtor in his county, and
shall be made returnable within sixty days from the date thereof to the court
from which the same shall have issued. The sheriff shall proceed to levy
upon and sell the property of the judgment debtor in the same manner as
required by law upon executions issued out of the circuit court, and shall
be entitled to the same fees and commissions allowed by law on executions
issuing from the circuit court; but no such judgment shall be a lien upon the
real estate of the judgment debtor until execution shall have been levied 
thereon.
SEC. 4044. When notice of any proceedings in a county
court shall be required by law or be deemed necessary by such court and the
manner of giving the same shall not be directed by any statute, such court
shall order notice of such proceedings to be given to all persons interested
therein in such manner and for such length of time as it shall deem reasonable. 
SEC. 4045. All notices
required to be given bv county courts by publication in a newspaper shall be
published in such newspaper as the attorney, executor, administrator, guard­
ian or parties interested may designate, if such newspaper is published in the
county in which the court is held; if no newspaper is published therein the
publication may be made in a.ny such newspaper published in this state as the
county judge or oounty court shall direct or order; if the time of publication
is not fixed by law such judge or court may direct, in the order of publication,
the time during which the notice shall be published; provided that no county
judge or register in probate shall order the publication of any such notice to
be published in any newspaper owned or controlled by him or in which he has 
any pecuniar1 interest, if there be any other newspaper published in the 
county of which he is such judge or register. Any county judge, register in
probate or other officer of any court who shall neglect or refuse to carry out,
or violate, any provision of this section shall forfeit not less than fifty dollars
for each such neglect, refusal or violation. 
SEC. 4046. Any county court may amend, correct and
perfect its record of any matter transacted therein in such manner as may be 
necessary to make the same conform to the truth. 
SEC. 404:7. Upon verified applica­
tion in writing to any county court by any person interested, praying that the
records of such court, in any matter transacted therein, may be amended, cor­
rected or perfected, and specifying the amendments desired, it shall be the
duty of the court to cause notice to be given to all persons concerned of the
time and place of hearing such application by publication in a newspaper as
provided m section 404 \ for three successive weeks prior to the time fixed
for such hearing, the last publication not to be more than ten days before the
day so fixed. 
SEC. 4048. At the
time fixed for such hearing, upon due proof of the publication of such notice,
the court shall proceed to hear the proofs for and against the proposed amend­
ments. U on such hearing the court shall find its record incorrect, incom­
plete or imperfect it shall amend, correct and perfect the same in such manner 
as to make it conform to the truth. Such amended, corrected and perfected
record shall be as valid and binding in all courts as though correctly made
and entered at the proper time. 
SEC. 4049.
All matters and proceedings before any county court requiring notice to be
given of the time and place of the hearing thereof shall be made returnable 
to and set for a hearing at a regular term of such court; provided, that in all
cases where application in such matters and proceedings are made at such a
time that the required notice of the hearing thereof can be given and fullv
completed one week or more before the first regular term of court at which
the same can be heard on due notice then such applications may be made re­
turnable to and set for hearing at a special term of such court preceding such
regular term or at a regular term thereof, at the discretion of said court. All
such matters and proceedings, by brief, appropriate titles, shall be entered, in
the order in which they are commenced, in a book to be kept by such court
and called the court calendar. At the opening of the term of the court all
such matters and proceedings shall be called by their titles and in their order
on the calendar. Any matter or proceeding wherein a contest is indicated by
any one interested shall be so noted by the court. Matters and proceedings
wherein there is no contest shall be first disposed of in their order on such
calendar, followed by the disposition of contested matters and proceedings in
like manner, unless the court shall otherwise direct. The court may adjourn
from day to dav and from time to time till all business pending therein is dis­
posed of. All matters placed upon the calendar shall be continued thereon
until finally disposed of, but the hearing of any such matter may, when neces­
sary to procure the attendance of witnesses or testimony, be continued to the 
, next or any subsequent term of such court, upon the application of either party
upon such terms as may be imposed by the court. 
SEC. 4050. In all matters and proceedings in any 
county court wherein such court shall order notice to be r.·ven to parties in­
terested therein of the time and place of the hearing thereo, by publication or
otherwise, it shall not be necessary to publish in lull or to serve a complete
-0opy of such order; but a notice containing a brief statement of the matter to
be heard, sufficient to fairly inform those interested of the nature of the pro­
posed proceeding and the estate involved, with the residence or late residence
of the owner of such estate, and stating the time and place of such hearing
shall be sufficient, and any number of different matters may be included in the 
same notice, and such notice mar be substantially as follows: 
ST.A.TE OF W 1so0Ns1N, In robate . ·
County Court for -- County. P · · 
Notice is hereby given that at the -- term of the county court to be held
in and for said county at the court-house in the (city, village or town) of --,
in said county, on the first Tuesday of--, A. 0.18-, the following matters
will be heard and considered : 
The application of A. B. for the appointment of an administrator of the es­
tate of C. D., late of the (city, village or town) of--, in said county, de­
ceased. 
The application of A. B. to admit to probate the last will and testament of
C. D., late of the (city, vmage or town) of --, in said county, deceased. 
The application of A. B. for the appointment of a guardian of the person
and estate of C. D., an insane person of the (city, village or town) of--, in 
said county. 
The application of A. B., administrator of the estate of C. D., late of the
(city, village or town) of --, in said county, deceased, to sell a piece of real
estate belonging to such estate, described as follows (here describe particularly),
in said county. 
Bv order of the court. E. F., Judge.
SEC. 4051. Fees in the county court shall be
allowed as follows: 
To appraisers, one dollar per day;
To commissioners to examine and adjust claims, to make partitions, or to 
assign dower or homestead against deceased persons, two dollars per day;
In all cases, travel, five cents per mile each way; 
In oases not provided for a reasonable compensation shall be allowed by the
court. 
SEC. 4052. Depositions may be taken according to the
provisions of law or the rules and practice of the circuit court for taking dep­
ositions to be used on the trial of civil actions therein, to be used on the trial
of any question before the county court where such testimony may be proper;
and the county court may issue a commission to one or more competent per­
sons to take testimony of any non-resident witnesses for use in such court. In 
proceedings where there is no contest before the county court depositions may
be taken for use therein in such manner as the court shall direct, either within
or without the state. 
SEC. 4052a. Every person not under dis­
ability who appears i!1 any cause, matter or proceeding in any county court 
or before any countv Judge shall appear aud conduct or defend the same, as
the case may be, in his own proper person or by attorney admitted to practice
in a court of record of this state, and not otherwise. Every person under dis­
ability shall appear and conduct or defend bv his guardian ad litem, who shall
be such attorney, or by his general guardian who shall appear by such at­
torney. Whenever any appearance shall be made the county judge shall
make an entry in his minutes stating when, how and by whom it was made,
and shall proceed further in the cause, matter or proceeding only upon such
appearance being so entered as is herein required. 
SEC. 4052b. Whenever it shall, be
made to appear by affidavit before any county or municipal judge that the
physical or moral welfare of any child within bis jurisdiction is seriouslv en·
dangered by the neglect, abuse or vicious or immoral habits of the paren is, or
either of them, or other person having the custody of such child, or that its
welfare, physically or morally, is so endangered by the inability, refusal or
neglect of the person having the custody thereof to properly care for the
child, such judge shall summon witnesses and the person or persons having
such custody, and if the evidence establishes the facts alleged in the affldavij
and warrants such action shall cause such child to. be removed from the cus­
tody of such person and provided with a home or make such other provision
for it as may be available and in his judgment most suitable. Any person
who shall, without the written consent of such [udge, interfere with or re­ 
move such child from the place so provided for it shalf be punished as provided
in section 45877>. 
SEC. 4053. The subpcena may be in the
form heretofore commonly used, need not be sealed, and may be signed and
issued as follows: 
1. Bv any judge or clerk of a court of record or court commissioner or jus­
tice of °the peace, municipal jud~ or police justice within the territory in which
such officer or the court of which he is such officer has jurisdiction, to require
the attendance of witnesses and their production of lawful instruments of evi­
dence in any action, matter or proceeding pending or to be examined into be­
fore any court, magistrate, officer, arbitrator, board, committee or other person
authorized to examine witnesses or hear testimony in the state. 
2. By the attorney-general or any district attorney or person acting in his
stead, to require the attendance of witnesses, in behalf of the state, in any court
and from any part of the state. 
3. By the chairman of any committee appointed by any county board, town
board, common council or village board to investigate the affairs of the county,
city or village, respectively, or the official conduct or affairs of any officer
thereof. 
SEC. 4.-054. The subpcena of a justice
of the peace may be in tile following form: 
--County, }
Town of --. ss. 
THE ST.A.TE OF w ISOONSIN' to -- -- :
You are hereby required to appear before the undersigned, one of the jus­ 
tices of the peace in and for said county, at my office. in said town (or before
-- --, designating the court, officer or person and place of appearance), on
the -- day of--, at -- o'clock in the --noon of said day, to give evi­
dence in a certain cause then and there to be tried between -- --, plaint­
iff, and -- --, defendant, on the part of the--. 
Given under my hand this -- day of --, 18-
SEC. 4055. Any subpcena may be served by any person 
by exhibiting and reading it to the witness or by giving him a oopy thereof, ·
or by leaving such copy at the place of his abode. 
SEC. 4056, A subpcena to require attendance of a wit­
ness before a justice of the peace may be served in a county adjoining that in
which said oourt is held, and shall oblige the attendance before said justice of
any witness, so duly served therewith, not residing more than thirty miles from
the office of such justice. 
SEC. 4057. No person shall be obliged to
attend as a witness in any civil action, matter or proceeding, except when sub­
peenaed on behalf of the state, unless the fees are paid or tendered to him which 
are allowed by law for one day's attendance as a witness and for traveling to 
and returning from the place where he is required to attend. 
SEC. 4058. No witness on
behalf of the state in any civil action, matter or proceeding, whether in its
name or the name of the attorney-general or of any other person for the state
pursuant to law, or in any criminal action or proceeding in any court, or before
any officer, on behalf of either party, shall be entitled to demand any fee in
advance, but shall be obliged to attend upon the service of a subpoena as therein
lawfully required. 
SEC. 4059. Every
witness on behalf of the state in any civil action or proceeding, whether in the
name of the state or of the attorney-general or of any other person for the state
pursuant to law, may file with the clerk of the court where the same is pend­
ing his affidavit proving bis attendance and travel, and his fees shall, upon the
certificate of such clerk, countersigned by the attorney-general, district attor­
ney or acting prosecuting officer, be paid out of the state treasury, except where
otherwise specially provided. 
SEC. 4060. The
fees of all witnesses on the part of the state in every criminal action or pro­
ceeding in the name of the state, and of every person who is unable to give se­
curity for his aP.pearance to testify as such witness and in default thereof is 
committed to jail, shall be paid by the county in which the offense which is the 
subject thereof is committed, except where otherwise specially provided. When
such action or proceeding is pending or such person is committed to jail to 
await the trial of any such action or proceeding therein the clerk of the proper
court upon proof of his attendance, travel or confinement shall give each such
witness or person a certificate of the number of days' attendance or confine­
ment, number of miles traveled and the amount of compensation due him,
which certificate shall be receipted for by such witness or person, and there- .
upon the county treasurer shall pay the amount thereof out of the county 
treasury. 
SEC. 4061. When anv
person shall attend a oourt of record as a witness in behalf of 'the state, upon
the request of the public prosecutor, or upon a subpoena, or by virtue of a re­
cognizance for that purpose, and it shall alpear that such person has come
from any other state or territory of the United States or from any foreign
country or that such person is poor the court mav, by ap order on its minutes,
direct that such witness be paid a speoifio sum; w hicli the court shall deem
reasonable for his expenses and attendance, in lieu of his fees by Jaw; and
thereupon the clerk shall give a certificate for such sum, with a copy of such
order affixed, and the same shall be paid out of the state treasurv or the oounty
treasury, as may be proper, under the two preceding sections ..
SEC. 4062. The judge of the circuit court or county court, court commissioner,
municipal judge or a justice of the peace in any criminal action or P.roceeding
to be tried or beard before him, upon satisfactory proof of the inability of the
defendant to procure the attendance of witnesses for his defense, may direct
such witnesses to be summoned on his behalf upon proof by his oath or affida­
vit or that of his attorney, when he shall deem proper and necessary. And
all witnesses 80 ordered to aprear and appearing at the trial or hearing of
said action or proceeding shal be paid their fees out of the county treasury
in the same manner that the witnesses for the state therein are paid. The fees
of no other witnesses for-the defendant shall be a claim on the county or state. 
SEC. 4068. If any person
duly subpoenaed and obliged to attend as a witness shall fail to do so without
any reasonable excuse he shall be liable to the aggrieved party for all dam­
ages occasioned by such failure, to be recovered in an action by such party.
SEC. 4064. Such failure to attend as a witness in any court of
record shall also be considered a contempt of the court, and may be punished
by a fine not exceeding twenty dollars. If he is a party to the action the
court may, as an additional punishment, strike out his pleading. Such failure
to attend in a justice's court shall also be considered a contempt, and the wit­
ness shall be fined all the costs of his apprehension, unless he shall show rea­
sonable cause for his failure, to the satisfaction of the justice; in which case
the party procuring him to be apprehended shall pay the costs thereof. 
SEC. 4065. Either a court of record or a 
justice of the peace, in such oases, upon due proof of the service of the sub­ 
prena and the payment or tender of fees, when necessary or not waived, may
issue an attachment to bring such witness before them to answer for the con­
tempt, and also to testify as a witness in the cause in which he is summoned. 
SEC.  4066. If any person, 
duly subprenaed and obliged to attend as a witness before any officer, arbi­
trators, board, committee or other person authorized to examine witnesses or­
hear testimony shall, without any reasonable excuse, fail to attend or to testify
as lawfully required, or to produce a book or paper which he was lawfully
directed to bring by subpcena, or subscribe bis deposition when correctly r& 
duced to writing, upon sufficient proof of the facts, by affidavit, any judge of
a court of record or court commissioner in the oountv may issue an attach­
ment to bring such witness before him, and then, unless such witness shall
purge the contempt and go and testify or do such other act as required by
law, may, by warrant, commit him to the common jail of the county, there to
remain in close confinement until he shall so testify or do such act, or be dis­
charged by order of such judge or commissioner or according to law. The
sheriff of the county shall execute such· warrant and the keeper of such jail is
required to receive and safely keep such person according to such commitment. 
SEC. 4067. The fees of witnesses.
shall be as follows: 
For attending in any action or proceeding in a court of record or before a 
judge thereof one dollar and fifty cents for each day and seventy-five cents for
each half day; 
For attending in any action or proceeding in justice's court or before a jus­
tice of the peace, or before any arbitrators or any board or committee thereof
of any town, city or village, one dollar for each day and seventy-five cents
for each half day; 
For attending before any other officer, board or committee, the same as in
a court of record; 
For traveling at the rate of four cents per mile, each way, going and re­
turning from the residence of such witnesses, if within this state; or if with­
out, from the boundary line of the state at the point where the witness crossed
in coming to attend to the place of attendance, by the usually traveled route­
between such points. 
The fees of interpreters for attendinz in any court of record shall be two
dollars and tifty cents for each day and one dollar and twenty-five cents for
each half day; and for attending in any justice's court or before any officer,
person or board, one dollar for each day and fifty cents for each half day, and
the fees for traveling allowed other witnesses. 
No witness or interpreter shall be entitled to receive such fees for attend­
ance except for the time he shall be in actual and necessary attendance as such
witness or interpreter; nor be entitled to receive pay in more than one action
or procedin~ for the same attendance or travel on behalf of the same party.
No person shall be entitled to demand or receive either travel or attendance
fees as a witness or interpreter while attending court as an officer or juror;
nor shall anv attorney or counsel in any cause be allowed any fee as a witness
or interpreter therein. 
SEC. 4068. No person shall be disquali­
fied as a witness in any action or proceeding, civil or criminal, by reason of
his interest in the event of the same, as a party or otherwise; and every party
shall be in every such case a competent witness, except as otherwise provided
in this chapter. But such interest or connection may be shown to affect the
credibility of the witness. Any party to the record in any civil action or pro­
ceeding, or any person for whose immediate benefit any such action or proceed­
in~ is prosecuted or defended, or the president, secretary or other principal
officer or general managing agent of any corporation which is such a party or
for whose benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended may be
examined upon the trial of any such action or proceeding as if under cross­
examination, at the instance of the adverse party or parties or any of them, and
for that purpose may -be compelled, in the same manner ·and subject to the
same rules for examination as any other witness, to testify; but the party call­
ing for such examination shall not be concluded thereby and may rebut the
evidence given thereon by counter or impeaching testimony. 
SEC. 4069. No party, and no person
from, through or under whom a party derives his interest or title, shall be ex­
amined as a witness in respect to a.n7. transaction or communication by him
personally with a deceased person or with a person then insane in any civil action
or proceeding in which the opposite party derives his title, or sustains his lia­
bility, to the cause of action from, through or under such deceased person or
such insane person or in which such insane person is a party prosecuting or
defending by guardian unless such. opposite party shall first be examined
or examine some other witness in his behalf concerninz some transaction or
communication between the deceased or insane and such rarty or person, or
unless the testimony of such deceased person given in his hf e-time or of such
insane person be first read or given in evidence by the opposite party; and
then, in either case respectively, only in respect to such transaction or com­
munication of which testimony is so given or to the matters to which such
testimony relates. 
SEC. 4070. No party, and no person from, through or under
whom a party derives his interest or title, shall be examined as a witness in
respect to any transaction or communication by him personally with an agent
of the adverse party or an agent of the person from, through or under whom
such adverse party derives his interest or title, when such agent is dead or in­
sane, or otherwise legally incompetent as a. witness unless the opposite party
shall first be examined or examine some other witness in his behalf in respect
to some transaction or communication between such agent and such other
party or person; or unless the testimony of such agent, at any time taken, be
first read or given in evidence by the opposite party; and then, in either case
respectively, only in respect to such transaction or communication of which
testimony is so given or to the matters to which such testimony relates. 
SEC. 4071. In all criminal actions and proceed­
ings the party charged shall, at his own request, but not otherwise, be a compe­
tent witness; but his refusal or omission to testify shall create no presumption
against him or any other party thereto. 
SEC. 4072. A husband or wife shall
not be allowed to disclose a. confidential communication made by one to the
other during their marriage, without the consent of the other. In an action
for criminal conversation the plaintiff's wife is a competent witness for the
defendant as to any matter in controversy except as aforesaid. 
SEC. 4073. A person who has been
convicted of a criminal offense is, notwithstanding, a competent witness, but
the conviction may be proved to affect his credibility, either by the record or
by his own cross-examination, upon which he must answer any question rele­
vant to that inquiry, and the party cross-examining him is not concluded by
his answer. 
SEC. 4074. A clergyman or other min­
ister of any religion shall not be allowed to disclose a confession made to him
in his professional character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the rules
or practice of the religious body to which he belongs, without consent thereto
by the party confessing. 
SEC. 4075. No person duly authorized
to eractice physic or surgery shall be compelled to disclose any information 
which he may have acquired in attending any patient in a professional char­
acter, and which information was necessary to enable him to prescribe for such
patient as a physician or to do any act for him as a surgeon.
SEC. 4076. An attorney or counselor at law
shall not be allowed to disclose a communication made by his client to him or
his advice given thereon in the course of his professional employment.
SEC. 4077. Any competent witness in a cause shall not be excused
from answering a question relevant to the matter in issue on the ground merely 
that the answer to such question may establish or tend to establish that such
witness owes a debt or is otherwise subject to a civil action. But this provis­
ion shall not be construed to require a witness to give any answer which shall
have a tendency to accuse himself of any crime or misdemeanor or to expose
him to any penalty or forfeiture, nor in any respect to vary or alter any other
rule respecting the examination of witnesses. 
SEC. 4078. No witness or party, in an action brought upon the bond of a
public officer, or in an action by the state or any municipality to recover pub­
lic money received by or deposited with the defendant, or in any action, pro­
ceeding or examination, instituted by or in behalf of the state or any munici­
pality, involving the official conduct of any officer thereof, shall be excused
from testifying on the ground that his testimony may expose him to prosecu­
tion for any crime, misdemeanor or forfeiture. But no testimony so given
shall be in any manner used against the person so testifying in any other ac­ 
tion or :proceeding, civil or criminal, except a prosecution for perjury commit­
ted in g1ying such testimony. 
SEC. 4079. In actions or
proceedings by or against an aggregate corporation the admission of any mem­
ber thereof who is not a party to the action or proceeding shall not be received
as evidence against such corporation unless such admission was made concern­
ing some transaction in which such member was the authorized agent of such
corporation. 
SEC. 4080. An oath or affidavit required or
authorized by law, except oaths to jurors and witnesses on a trial and such
other oaths as are required by law to be taken before particular officers, may
be taken before any judge, court commissioner, including resident commission­
ers of the United States courts who have complied with section 2216, clerk of
a court of record, notary public, town clerk, clerk of a city organized under
the general law, justice of the peace, police justice or county clerk, within the
territory in which such officer is authorized to act; and when certified by such
officer to have been taken before him may be read and used in any court of
record, or not of record, and before any officer, judicial, executive or adminis­
trative. Oaths may be administered by any member of a committee mentioned
in subdivision 3 of section 4053 to any witness examined before such com­
mittee. 
SEC. 4081. In all cases in which an oath or affida­
vit is required or authorized by law the same may be taken in any of the usual 
forms, and every person swearing, affirming or declaring in any such form
shall be deemed to have been lawfully sworn and to be guilty of perjury for
corruptly or falsely swearing, affirming or declaring in such form. 
SEC. 4082. Whenever the court be­
fore which any person shall be offered as a witness shall be satisfied that such
person has any peculiar mode of swearing which is more solemn and obliga­
tory, in the opinion of such person, than the usual mode the court may, in its
discretion, adopt such mode of swearing such person; and any court may in­
quire of any person what are the peculiar ceremonies, observe<l in swearing,
which he deems most obligatory. 
SEC. 4083. Every person be­
lieving in any other than the Christian religion shall be sworn according to
the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such ceremonies
SEC. 4084. Every person who shall declare that he has
conscientious scruples against taking any oath or swearing in any form shall
be permitted to make his solemn declaration or affirmation. 
SEC. 4085. The court before whom an in­
fant or person apparently of weak intellect shall be produced as a witness may
examine such person to ascertain his capacity and whether he understands the
nature and obligations of an oath. 
SEC. 4086. Depositions mav be taken in the
manner and according to the regulations provided in this chapter to be used
before any court, including the supreme court, magistrate or any other person
authorized to examine witnesses or hear testimony in any action or proceedin~
or any motion therein, or in any other civil matter or proceeding. In all criminal
or quasi-criminal cases in courts of record the defendant, on notice to the dis­
trict attorney, may apply to the court or the presiding judge thereof for leave
to take the deposition of any material witness within the state who is in immi­
nent danger of death or who is without the state; and if it appears to the satis­
faction of the court or judge that due diligence has been used in making such
application, that such witness is material, and is in such danger or without the
state and that his attendance cannot, by the use of due diligence, be procured
upon the trial, such leave may be granted; and such court or judge shall de­
termine whether such deposition be taken on verbal or written interrogatories
and cross-interrogatories, and the same when so taken may be used on the trial
in the same manner as in civil cases.
SEC. 4087. The deponent shall be sworn
to testify the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth relating to the
action, proceeding or matter for which his testimony is taken, and his testi­
mony shall be taken in writing, or it may be taken down in shorthand by a
stenographer approved by the officer taking the same, or by all parties inter­
ested in the action, proceeding or matter, and by such stenographer thereafter
reduced to writing or typewriting. There must be inserted therein everv
answer or declaration of the witness which either party requires to be inserted';
and in depositions taken by oral interrogatories every interrogatory so required.
The deposition must, when comeleted, be read to or by and subscribed by the
witness. 'I'he deposition shall m all cases ·be delivered or transmitted by the
officer by whom the same is taken to the clerk of the court, magistrate or other
person before whom the action, proceeding or matter is pending securely sealed,
and shall remain sealed until opened by the court, the clerk tliereof, such mag-
istrate or other person.
SEC. 4088. Additional rules may be prescribed bv
courts of· record in respect to actions and proceedings therein, concerning the 
issuing and return of commissions, the taking, return, safe kee?ing and open­
ing of depositions or any other matters connected therewith, rncluding dep­
ositions to perpetuate testimony, taken within or without the state, not in­
consistent with law and such rules as may be prescribed by the supreme court. 
SEC. 4089. No
deposition shall be used if it shall appear that the reason for taking it no longer
exists, unless the ~arty producing it shall show other sufficient cause then exist­
ing for its use. No deposition shall be taken before any officer or commissioner
within or without the state who is the attorney or of counsel for any party or
person interested or is himself otherwise interested in the action, ·matter or
proceeding in or for which the deposition is ta.ken, except by written consent 
of the parties. 
SEC. SEOTioN 4090. Every deposition taken in pursuance
of a stipulation or after due notice may be used on the trial, if the same shall
have been filed with the clerk of the court and the other party notified thereof,
or if filed with a justice of the peace, without such notice, before the commence­
ment of the trial and the same be otherwise unobjectionable. But in an action
or proceeding in courts of record, unless such notice be given or the deposition
be filed at least one day before the commencement of the term at which it is
sought to be used, the opposite party shall be entitled to a continuance for
good cause shown, at the cost of the party desiring to use the deposition, un­
less he will forego the use of it. 
SEC. 4091. All objections to the validity
or admissibility of any deposition shall be made before entering on the trial;
but any deposition may be suppressed after the trial is begnn ff anv sufficient
cause appear which is not disclosed in the deposition and accompanylng papers.
No deposition which shall have once been used on the trial of an action shall
be suppressed upon any retrial of the same actiorr for any cause unless objec­
tion for such cause was made thereto on the former tria1 or such cause is not
disclosed in the deposition and accompanying papers and shall have been dis­
covered since the former trial. 
SEC. 4092. Every objection
to the competency of the witness, or to the propriety of any question put to 
him, or the admissibility of any testimony given by him may be made when
the deposition is produced, in the same manner as if the witness were person­
ally examined on the trial and without being noted upon the deposition unless
the objection is to the form or order of a question, when the objection must
be noted in the deposition before it is answered. 
SEC. 4093. When a deposition shall
have been lawfully taken in any action it may be used in any trial, inquiry or
assessment therein, and it may also be used in any other action between the
same parties, including their respective legal representatives, involving the
same controversy, if it shall have been duly filed m the first mentioned action
and have since remained in the custody of the clerk of the court where the
same was pending, subject to the same objections as if originally taken for such
other action. 
SEC. 4094. When an action or proceeding
shall have been a{lpealed from one court to another all depositions lawfully 
taken to be used m the court below may be used in the appellate court; but
if any such deposition was offered in the court below, then-subject to the same
objections for informality or irregularity, and none other, which were duly
taken in writing in such court below. 
SEC. 4095. The deposition of a party to any. ac­ 
tion or proceeding may be taken on his own behalf, within or without the state,
in the same manner and for the same causes, and be read in evidence where he
is a competent witness with the same effect as the deposition of any other wit­
ness, not a party, may be. 
SEC. 4096. No 
action to obtain a discovery under oath, in aid of the prosecution or defense of
another action, shall be allowed; but the examination of a party or, in case a
private corporation be a party, the examination of the president, secretary or
other principal officer or general managing agent of such corporation, or of
the person who was such president, secretary, officer or agent at the time of the
occurrence of the facts made the subject of the examination, otherwise than as
a witness on a trial, may be taken by deposition at the instance of the adverse
party in any action or proceeding, at any time after the commencement thereof
and before judgment. Such deposition shall be taken before a judge at cham­
bers or a court commissioner on a. previous notice to such party and any other
adverse party or their respective attorneys of at least five days; or it may be
taken without the state in the manner provided for taking other depositions.
The attendance of the party to be examined may be compelled upon subpoena
and the payment or tender of his fees as a witness; such examination shall be
subject to the same rules as that of any other witness, but he shall not be com­
pelled to disclose anything not relevant to the controversy. If such examina­
tion shall be taken before issue joined the notice of taking the same shall be
accompanied by an affidavit of the party, his agent or attorney, stating the
general nature and object of the action, that discovery is sought to enable the
party to plead and the points upon which such discovery is desired, and such
examination shall be limited to the discovery of the facts relevant to such
points unless the court or the presiding judge thereof, on motion and one day's
notice, shall, before the examination is begun, by order further limit the sub­
jects to which it shall extend; but such examination shall not preclude the
right to another examination after issue joined upon all the issues in the cause,
and the party examining shall, in all cases, be allowed to examine upon oral
interrogatones. Such examination shall not be compelled in any other county
than that in which the party to be examined resides; provided, that whenever
plaintiff or defendant is a non-resident of this state his deposition may be had
under the provisions of this section in the county in which the action is pend­
ing, if he can be personally served with notice and subpoena in such county.
In any examination under these provisions the judge or commissioner before
whom the same is had may compel the party examined to answer all questions
relevant to the issues involved and also compel the production by him of books
and papers relevant and pertinent to the issues, and may enforce such answers
and the production of such books and papers by contempt proceedings. Such
deposition, when completed, need not be road to or by or be subscribed by the
party examined; it shall in all cases be delivered or transmitted by the officer
before whom taken to the clerk of the court, magistrate or other person be­
fore whom the action or proceeding is pending, securely sealed, and shallre­
main sealed until opened by the court or clerk thereof or such magistrate or
other person.
SEC. 4097. If any party lawfully re­
quired to appear and testify, as provided in this chapter, either within or with­
out the state, shall neglect or refuse so to do he may be punished as for a con­
tempt and his pleading be stricken out and judgment given against him as
upon default or failure of proof. 
SEC. 4098. The examination or testimonv of 
a party, taken on the trial or by deposition at the instance of the adverse
party, may be rebutted by other testimony as if taken in his own behalf. 
SEC. 4099. In any action in a justice's
court, in which the defendant shall be personally served with the summons or
shall appear, when the plaintiff shall file a written complaint, claiming an in­
debtedness upon account, verified in the manner prescribed for verification of
pleadings in a court of record an affidavit of the plaintiff or of his agent,
acquainted with the facts, stating the names of the parties plaintiff and de­
fendant, that the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff upon the account al­
leged in the complaint, in a specified amount, when the same became due, what
set-offs should be allowed, and what payments have been made and when made,
if any, and the true balance due, with a copy of the account affixed, shall be
received as presumptive evidence of the facts therein stated. When made with­
out the state such atfida vit must have annexed a certificate of the official char­
acter of the officer certifying the same and of the genuineness of his signature,
such as is prescribed in section 4203. 
SEC. 4100. Any witness may be subpoenaed and com­
pelled to give his deposition at any place within twenty miles of his abode,
under the provisions of this chapter, and under the same penalties as he may
be subpcenaed and compelled to attend as a witness in any court. 
SEC. 4101. The deposition of a witness, within
this state, may be taken when: 
1. He shall live more than thirty miles from the place of trial or hearing of
the action, proceeding or matter in which his testimony is wanted or beyond
reach of the subpcena of the court. 
2. When he shall be about to go outof the state, not intending to return in 
time for the trial or hearing. .
3. When he is so sick, in firm or aged as to make it probable that he will not 
be able to attend at the trial or hearing.
4. When he shall be a member of the legislature and the legislature or any 
committee of the same or either house thereof, of which he shall be a member, 
shall be in session, provided he waive bis privilege.
5. When bis testimony is material to any motion or other similar proceed· 
ing pending in any court of record and he shall have refused voluntarily to 
make his affidavit of the facts, within his knowledge, in reference thereto. 
SEC. 4102. Such deposition
may be taken, within the territory in which he is authorized to act, by a justice
of the peace, notary {>ublic, a court commissioner or other person authorized
by law to take depositions, at any time after the action or proceeding is com­
menced or after a submission to arbitration. Notice in writing shall be given
to the adverse party, his attorney or agent that the deposition of the witness
or witnesses named will be taken before the officer, naming him, at a time and
place appointed therein, for one of the causes mentioned in the preceding sec­
tion; and in all cases not less than twenty-four hours shall be allowed after
service of such notice before the time appointed for taking the deposition,
when the same is to be taken in the same town, city of [or] village in which
the notice is served, and when the same is to be taken in another town, city or
village within this state at least two davs' notice shall be given and also time
at the rate of one day, Sundays excepted, for every fifty miles' travel, after the
first ten miles, from the place where such notice is served, when the deposi­
tion is taken within the state, and time at the rate of one day for each three
hundred miles from the place where notice is served when taken without the
state; provided, that one day's notice shall be sufficient in case of the deposi­
tions of additional witnesses desired to le examined, given during the course
of the taking of any deposition where the parties on each side appear. In case 
the officer before whom the deposition is noticed for being taken shall not
appear or attend at the time and place noticed for taking the same the deposi­
tion may be taken before any other officer authorized by law to take deposi­
tions. But in any action or proceeding in any court no notice -of taking a 
deposition need be given to a defendant who, having been duly served with
process, shall not have appeared, if the time limited by law therefor shall ham
expired. 
SEC. 4103. The justice of the peace before whom
any civil cause is pending may, on any day on which a trial may be had, after
an application has been made for adjournment and before making an order for
an adjournment, on the application of either party, showing any cause pro­
vided by law therefor, proceed to take the deposition of any witness then in
attendance before the justice; and no prior notice shall be required. 
SEC. 4104. The party producing the deponent
shall, in all cases, be allowed first to examine him, either upon verbal or writ­
ten interrogatories, on all points which he shall deem material, and then the
adverse party may examine the deponent in like manner, after which either
party may propose such further interrogatories as the case may require. 
SEC. 4105. The deposition shall be writ­
ten by the justice, or other officer by whom the same is taken, or by the de­
ponent, or by some disinterested person in the presence and under the direction
of the justice or officer, and it shall be carefully read to or by the deponent
and shall then be subscribed by him. 
SEC. 4106. The justice or officer shall annex to 
the deposition a certificate substantially as follows: 
STA.Tll: OF WIBOONBIN, } s .
-- County. s · 
I, A. B. (add official designation), in and for said county, do hereby certify
that the above deposition was taken before me at my office, in the town of 
--, in said county, on the -- day of --, 18-, at -- o'clock, --noon;
that it was taken at the reguest of the plaintiff (or defendant, or other person
procuring it), upon verbal (or written) interrogatories; that it was reduced to
writing by myself (or by deponent, or by·----, a disinterested person, in
my presence, and under my direction); that it was taken to be used in the ao­
tion of A. B. vs. C. D., now pending m -- court (or to be used in some pro­
ceeding or matter, mentioning it), and that the reason for taking it was (here
state the true reason); that -- -- attended at the taking of such deposi­
tion (or that a notice, of which the annexed is a copy, was served upon -- -­
on the -- day of --, 18-; or, that the deposition was taken in pursuance
of the annexed stipulation); that said deponcn t, before examination, was sworn 
to testify the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth relative to 
said cause, and that said deposition was carefully read to (or by) said deponent
and then subscribed by him. 
SEC. 4107. The state
board of control of the Wisconsin reformatory, charitable and penal institu­ 
tions, the board of regents of the university and the board of regents of nor­
mal schools may, by resolution duly adopted, require the deposition of any 
. witness to be taken concerning any institution under their government or su­
perintendence, or the conduct of any officer or agent thereof, or any matter
relating to the interests thereof; or may appoint and authorize a committee
thereof so to do in their behalf. Upon presentation of a certified copy of such
resolution and due request accordingly any justice, notary public or court com­
missioner shall issue the proper subpcena, requiring attendance at a time and
place therein fixed, and take the deposition of the witness according to the
preceding provisions. When any officer or agent of any institution is con­
cerned and to be affected by the testimony two days' notice of the time and
place of taking any such deposition shall be given him, to be served as pro­
vided in section 4102; and in all cases the board or committee and any party
interested may appear in person or by counsel and examine the witness touch­
ing the matters upon which he may be examined as aforesaid. The deposi­
tion, duly certified, shall be delivered to the board or committee which required 
the taking of the same. 
SEC. 4108. Every officer who shall take a deposition and every
witness who shall appear and testify under the preceding section shall be paid
the fees allowed in other cases, and the account of the board or committee for 
such fees and other like expenses incurred in taking any such deposition, being
duly certified, shall be paid out of the state treasury. 
SEC. 4109. Any witness may be subpcenaed and compelled,
according to the provisions of this chapter, to attend and give his deposition in
any action, cause or proceeding pending in any court of any other state. or
country before any justice of the peace, court commissioner or other person
authorized to take depositions in this state, or before any commissioner ap­ 
pointed under authority of such state or country or any such court thereof.
A subpcena to require attendance before such commissioners may be issued by
either of the officers mentioned in subdivision one of section 4053.
SEC. 4110. In any action, proceeding
or matter, in which depositions may be taken within the state, the deposition
of any witness without the state may be taken bv any judge or justice, court 
commissioner or master in chancery of any cou .. rt of record of the United
States, or any state or territory thereof, or by any notary public or justice of
the peace of any state or territory thereof, or by any commissioner of deeds
appointed, pursuant to the laws of this state, within the territory in which 
any such officer is authorized to act as such, or by commissioners appointed
specially for that purpose by commission issuing from any court of record in
this state, in the manner provided in this chapter and the rules of court that
may be prescribed in respect thereto. Such deposition may also be taken by 
commission in a foreign country bv any judge or clerk of a court of such coun­
try, any notary public, consul, vice-consul, deputy consul or consular agent of
the United States, resident in such country, by any officer authorized by the
laws of the United States to take depositions, or by a commissioner or com­
missioners, whether otherwise authorized or not, appointed for that purpose
by such commission. When it shall appear to the Judge of the court from
which the commission issues that the witness is unable to speak or understand
the English language such judge may appoint some competent and disinter­ 
ested person to translate the commission, rules, interrogatories and cross-inter­
rogatories, or such part thereof as may be necessary, from the Enzlish into
the language spoken by the witness; and such translation or partial transla­
tion shall be sent to the commissioner in place of the original papers or such
thereof as have been translated. Upon the return of the commission and depo­
sition such judge shall in like manner cause the answers of the witness and the
exhibits to be translated into English, as well as all other proceedings in a for­
eign language, and such translation to be filed. Such translator shall append
to all such translations his affidavit that he knows the English and such for­
eign language, and that in making such translation he carefully and truly
translated such proceedings from the English into such foreign language or 
from the latter mto English, and that such translation is correct. Such trans­
lation shall have the same effect as if all the proceedings were in English, but
the trial court, upon the deposition being offered in evidence, may admit the
testimony of witnesses learned in such foreign language for the purpose of
correcting errors therein; and if it shall appear that the first translation was 
in any respect so incorrect as to mislead the witness the court may, in discre­
tion, continue the cause for the further taking of testimony.
SEC. 4111. 
Such depositions, to be used in any actions or proceedings before justices of
the peace, arbitrators or in any other cases, except in courts of record, may
be taken in the same manner and under the same provisions of law as deposi­
tions offersons may be taken within the state; but not more than fifteen days'
notice o the taking thereof shall be required in any case. 
SEC. 4112. Any such dep­
osition, to be used in any action or proceeding in a court of record, may be
taken in the same manner and under the same provisions o_f law as depositions
of persons may be taken within the state, except that the notice of the taking
of the same shall be given at least ten days. 
SEC. 4113. A commission may issue
from any court of record to any competent person or persons without the
state to take the deposition of any such witness in either of the following 
cases: 
1. Where a.n issue of fact has been joined.
2. Where the time limited by law for the defendant to plead shall have ex­ 
pired and no answer or demurrer shall have been received.
3. At any time after the commencement of the action, before any issue of 
fact is joined, when the witness is so sick, infirm or aged as to afford reason­
able ground to apprehend that he may die or become unable to give his testi­
mony, or when he is about to remove so that his testimony cannot conven­
iently be taken, or for any other cause which shall be deemed sufficient by the 
court.
4. When required for use on any trial or hearing or upon any motion or 
, proceeding before or after judgment. The commission shall be signed by the
clerk or judge, sealed with the seal of the court and be in the form heretofore
commonly used. 
SEC. 4114.
To procure such a commission the party desiring it shall prepare his direct in­
terrogatories and state in the caption thereof the name of the commissioner
proposed by him, the name of the witness and the place of residence of each;
and shall serve a copy thereof on the opposite party, with a. notice that, at the
expiration of ten days from the date of such service, a commission will be is­
sued to take the deposition of the witness accordingly, specifying the cause or
reason for which the same is so to be taken. Within such time the opfosite
party may file with the clerk and serve upon the other his objections, i any,
to the direct interrogatories or any of them, and also bis cross-interrogatories;
and may state in the caption thereof, or otherwise, the name of any other per­
son whom he desires to act as an additional commissioner; but such person
must be resident in the same county in which the commissioner first named
resides or his appointment may be disregarded. At the expiration of the time
limited by such notice, or that to which it may be enlarged pursuant to law,
the moving party may file the notice and interrogatories, with proof of service
thereof and his objections, if any, to the cross-interrogatories. He may also
serve redirect interrogatories on the opposite party, who may, within three
days after such service, unless the time be enlarged, file objections, if any, to 
such redirect interrogatories. Thereupon the commission shall be issued, with
the interrogatories, direct, cross and redirect, and all objections, and trans­ 
mitted to the oommissioner first named. But when, in the second case men­
tioned in the preceding section, any defendant shall not have appeared, or
when, in the third case, the summons shall have been served by publication or
without the state and the defendant so served shall not have appeared, no no­
tice is required to be given such defendant, and the commission may issue on
filing the direct interrogatories. 
SEC. 4115. The commissioner named in the
direct interrogatories shall fix the time and place for executing the commission 
and give the other commissioner, if any, one day's notice thereof, when he re­ 
sides in the same place, and when not, .one day's notice in addition for every
thirty miles of distance between the place of his residence and the place fixed
for executing the commission. If the notice be by mail double time shall be
allowed; but notice may be waived in writing or by appearance at the execu­
tion of the commission. If there be two commissioners the place for executing
the commission shall be fixed in the county where they reside, unless they
agree upon another. The commissioner named in the direct interrogatories
shall have charge of and return the deposition. 
SEC. 4116. The officer or persons who take any deposition by •
virtue of a commission or otherwise and the witness deposing shall be entitled
to the same fees allowed justices of the peace and witnesses for similar service 
by the law of this state, or such as may be prescribed by the law of the state
or country where taken. Each party shall pay the fees of the commissioner
named by him, and his lawful fees, as well as those of the witnesses, may be
taxed as disbursements.
SEC. 4117. When any person shall be de­
sirous to perpetuate the testimony of any witness he shall make a statement
in writing, setting forth briefly and substantially his title, claim or interest in
or to the subject concerning which he desires to perpetuate the evidence and
the names of all other persons interested or supposed to be interested therein,
and also the name of the witness proposed to be examined, and shall deliver
the said statement to a judge of a court of record, requesting him to take the
deposition of the said witness. 
SEC. 4118. The said judge shall thereupon cause
notice to be given of the time and place appointed for taking the deposition 
to all persons mentioned in the said statement as interested in the case; which
notice shall be given in the same manner as is prescribed in this chapter re­
specting notice upon taking a deposition in this state to be used in any cause
here pending. 
SEC. 4119. The deponent shall be
sworn and examined and his deposition shall be written, read and subscribed
in the same manner as is prescribed respecting the other depositions before
mentioned, and the judge shall annex thereto a certificate under his hand of
the time and manner of taking it and that it was taken in perpetual remem­
brance of the thing; and he shall also insert in the certificate the names of the
persons at whose request it was taken, and of all those who were notified to
attend, and of all who did attend the taking thereof. 
SEC. 4120.· The deposition, with the certificate
and also the written statement of the party at whose request it was taken, shall, 
within ninety days after the taking thereof, be recorded in the registry of deeds
in the county where the land lies, if the deposition relates to real estate; other­
wise, in the county where the parties or some of them reside
SEC. 4121. If any action shall, either at the time
of taking such deposition or at any time afterward, be pending between the
person at whose request it was taken and the persons named in the said writ­
ten statement or any of them, who were notified as aforesaid, or .any person
claiming under either of the said parties respectively concerning the title; claim
or interest set forth in the statement, the deposition so taken or a certified copy
of it from the registry of deeds may be used in such action in the same manner
and subject to the same conditions and objections as if it had been originally
taken for the said action. 
SEC. 4122. Any_ witness may be 
summoned and compelled to give his deposition in perpetual remembrance of _
the thing as before prescribed, in like manner and under the same penalties as
are provided in this chapter respecting other depositions taken in this state. 
SEC. 4123. Depositions to perpetuate the testi­
mony of witnesses living without the state may be taken in any state or in any
foreign country, upon a commission to be issued by any court of record, in the
manner hereinafter provided. 
SEC. 4124. The person who proposes to take the
deposition shall apply to any such court and file therein a statement like that
before prescribed, to be delivered to the judge upon taking such a deposition
within this state; and if the subject of the proposed deposition relate to real
estate within this state the statement shall be filed in the county where the
land or any part thereof lies; otherwise, in the county where the parties or
some of them reside. 
SEC. 4125. The court shall order notice of such
application and statement to be served on all the persons mentioned therein as
adversely interested in the case and living within the state; which notice shall
be served fourteen davs at least before the time therein appointed for hearing
the parties. 
SEC. 4126. If, upon such hearing
of the parties or of the applicant alone, should no adverse party appear, the
court shall be satisfied that there is sufficient cause for taking the deposition it
shall issue a commission therefor in like manner as for taking a deposition to
be used in any cause pending in the same court. 
SEC. 4127. The deposition shall be taken
upon written interrogatories, filed by the applicant, and cross-interrogatories,
filed by any party adversely interested, if be shall think fit; and it shall be
taken and returned substantially in the same manner as if taken to be used in
any cause pending in the same court. 
SEC. 4128. The person who proposes to take the
deposition may, at his election, file his statement in the clerk's office in vaca­
tion and may cause notice thereof to be given to the persons therein named
as adversely interested by serving them with an attested copy: of the said
statement fourteen days at least before the next term of the· said court; and
the court may thereupon proceed to hear the parties and to issue the commis-
sion as before provided. 
SEC. 4129. All depositions to perpetuate the testimony of
witnesses, taken at any place without this state according to the provisions of
this chapter, may be used in like manner as if taken witliin this state. 
SEC. 4:130. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of
witnesses, within or without the state, so that the same may be evidence
against all persons, may be taken upon a commission to be issued after public
notice by any court of record. 
SEC. 4131. The person who desires to have
such deposition taken may apply to any such court in the manner before pre­
scribed in the case of taking a deposition to perpetuate the testimony of a 
, witness living without the state; and all the proceedings thereon shall be the
same as are prescribed in the case last mentioned. 
SEC. 4132.
The court shall, in addition to the proceedings as before prescribed, inquire
upon the oath of the applicant or otherwise, at their discretion, as to all per­
sons known or supposed to be interested in the case; and shall, in the oommis- 
.sion, direct the commissioner or commissioners to publish in such newspaper
or newspapers, within or without the state, or both, or in such other manner
as the court shall consider most effectual, such notice of the time and place of
taking such depositions and of the su bject-rnatter thereof as the court shall
think proper; which notice shall be addressed, specially by name, to all per­
sons who are known or supposed to be interested in the case and generally to
all others that they may attend and propose cross-interrogatories to the wit- 
nesses: and the court may also require personal notice of the time and place
of taking and of the subject-matter of such depositions to be given to such per­
sons and in such manner as under all the circumstances shall seem proper.
SEC. 4133. Such deposition, having been taken
and returned to the court by whose order the commission issued and being
found by the court to have been taken according to law and the directions
contained in the commission, the court shall order it to be recorded within
thirty days in the registry of deeds for the county in which the land lies, if 
the deposition relate to real estate; otherwise the county in which the parties
or some of them reside.
SEC. 4134. Any deposition taken and recorded
under the provisions of the four preceding sections or a certified copy thereof
from the registry may be used by the person at whose request it was taken 
or by any person claiming under him against any person whatever in any ac­
tion or proceeding wherein shall be brought in question the title, claim or in­
terest set forth in the statement upon which the commission was founded in
the same manner and subject to the same conditions and objections as if it had
been originally taken for said action or proceeding. 
SEC. 4135. The printed
copies of all statutes, acts and resolves of this state, whether of a public or pri­
vate nature, which shall be published. under the authority of the state, shall be
admitted as sufficient evidence thereof in all courts of law and on all occasions
whatever; and the journals of the senate and assembly, kept by the clerks of
said houses respectively as provided by law and deposited in the office of the
secretary of state, including the printed journals of previous legislatures there
deposited, shall be admitted- in all courts and places as sufficient evidence of the
proceedings of the said houses of the legislature; and the printed journals of
said houses, respectively, published by authority of law, shall be prima facie
evidence of such proceedings. 
SEC. 4136. Printed ·
copies of the statute laws and all acts and resolves of the congress of the 
United States or of the legislature of any state or territory of the United
States, if purporting to be published under the authority of their respective
governments or if commonly admitted and read as evidence in their courts,
shall be admitted in all courts and on all other occasions in this state as pre­
sumptive evidence of such laws, acts and resolves. 
SEC. 4137. Copies of the ordinances, by­
laws, resolutions and regulations of any city or village in this state, printed in
any newspaper, book, pamphlet or other form and purporting to be published 
.., by authority of the proper common council or village board shall, to a like
extent, be admitted as presumptive evidence thereof; and from and after three
years from the date of the compilation and publication of such book or pam­ 
phlet shall be conclusive evidence of the regularity of the adoption and publi­
cation thereof. 
SEC. 4138. The unwritten or common law
of any state or territory of the United States may be proved as facts by parol
evidence, and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts may also
be admitted as evidence of such law. 
SEC. 4139. The existence and the tenor or effect of all
foreign laws may be proved as facts by parol evidence; but if it shall appear
that the law in question is contained in a written statute or code the court may,
in their discretion, reject any evidence of such law that is not accompanied by 
a. copy thereof. 
SEC. 4140. The original records, papers
and files in or concerning any action or proceeding of any nature or descrip­
tion in any court of the state, being produced by the legal custodian thereof,
shall be receivable in evidence in every action, proceeding or inquiry, before 
anv court, officer or person, had pursuant to law; and any copy of any thereof,
being certified by the clerk, judge or justice having legal custody of the orig­ 
inal, to have been by him compared with the origmal and to be a true copy 
thereof, such certificate having atlixed the seal of the court or of such officer,
if any be required by law to be kept, shall be received with like effect as the 
original. 
SEC. 4141. A transcribed
copy of the minutes of evidence and proceedings or of any specific part thereof
on the trial of an action or proceeding, taken by the official phonographic re­
porter of the court, being certified by such reporter to be a true and correct 
transc ri.ition in longhand of all the testimony on the trial, or of a particular 
witnr ss, or of other specific part thereof, carefully compared by him with his
ori~inal notes and to be a correct statement of the evidence and proceedings
baa on such trial so purporting to be taken and transcribed, shall be received
in evidence with the same effect as if such reporter were present and testified 
to the facts so certified. 
SEC. 4142. Whenever it shall become necessary in
an action before a justice of the peace to give evidence of a jud$'ment or other
proceedings had before him the docket of such judgment or otner proceeding
or a transcript thereof, certified by him, shall be good evidence thereof before
such justice. 
SEC. 4143. A transcript from the docket of any
justice of the peace of any judgment bad before him, of the proceedings in the
cause previous to such judgment, of the execution issued thereon, if any, and
of the return to such execution, if any, when certified by such justice, or his
successor in office or other person, having legal custody of his books and papers,
shall be evidence to prove the facts contained in such transcript in any court
in the county wherem such judgment was rendered. It shall be likewise re­
eeived in any other county, when there shall be affixed a certificate of the
clerk of the circuit court of the former countv, under seal of the court, that
the person subscribing the transcript was, at the date thereof, a justice of the
peace of the county or other person having legal custody of the books and
pq.pers; and also, if the judgment was rendered by another, that such other
was, at the date of the rendition of the judgment, a justice of the peace of the
county. 
SEC. 4144. In case of the death or absence of any justice
any proceedings had before him may be proved by producing the original
minutes of such proceedings, entered in a book kept by such justice, accom­
panied by proof of his handwriting; or they may be proved by producing
copies of such minutes, sworn to by a competent witness as having been com­
pared by him with the original entries, with -proof that such entries were in
the handwriting of the justice. The proceedrngs in any cause had before a
justice, not reduced to writing by said justice, nor being the contents of any
paper or document produced before such justice, and the contents of any such 
paper or document as shall have been lost or destroyed may be proved by the
oath of the justice. 
SEC. 4J 45. The rec­
ords and judicial proceedings of any court of the United States or of any state
or territory or district thereof sha.11 be admissible in evidence in all cases in
this state when authenticated in the manner directed in section 4140, by the
attestation of the clerk, prothonotarv or other officer having charge of the
records of such. court, with the seal of the court annexed. 
SEC. 4146. An exemplification of a 
judgment rendered by any_ justice of the peace or other magistrate holding a
court not of record of any state or territory of the United States shall be ad­
missible in evidence in all cases in this state when authenticated by the certifi­
cate of such justice or his legal successor, having custody of his books and
papers, that the same has been by him compared with the original and is a full
and correct copy from the docket or other legal record of all the proceedings
in the case, with a certificate of magistracy affixed, signed by the clerk of a
court of record in the county where such judgment was rendered, under the
seal of such court. 
SEC. 414 7. The records and judicial proceed­ 
ings of anv such court, justice of the peace or magistrate of any foreign country
shall be admisaible in all cases in this state, as presumptive evidence of the con­
tents thereof, when authenticated in the manner required in the two preceding sections respectively; and proof of the genuineness of the si~natures of the au­
thenticating officers and of the seal of a court of record affixed shall likewise 
not be required in the first instance. 
SEC. 4148. A oopx.
of any document or paper filed, deposited, entered, kept or recorded or of any
record, made or kept pursuant to law, in any public office or with any public
officer of the United States, or of this state, or of any town, school district,
county or municipality herein, or any public body or board created under any
statute of the state. being certified as provided in the next section, shall be re­
ceived in evidence in all cases in like man ner and with like effect as the original. 
If any such officer, upon being tendered his legal fees therefor, shall unreason
ably refuse to furnish any such certified copy to any applicant for the same
he shall forfeit not less than twenty nor more than one hundred dollars, one­
half to the person prosecuting therefor. 
SEC. 4149. Whenever a certified copy of any
document, paper or record is allowed by law to be evidence such copy shall be
certified by the officer in whose custody the same is required by law to be to
have been compared by him with the original and to be a true copy thereof
or a direct transcript therefrom; such certificate must be under his official seal
or under the official seal of the court, public body or board, in his custody,
when he is required by law to have or keep any such seal. Any certificate pur­
porting to be signed or signed and sealed as authorized by law shall be pre­
sumptive evidence that it was signed by the proper officer, and if sealed, that
it has the proper seal affixed, except when the law requires an additional cer­
tificate of genuineness. 
SEC. 4150. But the preceding section shall not
be construed to require the affixing of the seal of a court to a certified copy
of a rule or order made by such court or of any paper filed therein when such
copy is used in the same court or before any officer thereof. 
SEC. 4151. A copy of any
record, plat, file, paper or memorandum of the purchase or entrv of any land
filed, deposited, made or kept in the general land office of the tr nited States
or in any land office of the United States located in this state, being certified
by the secretary of the interior, the commissioner of the general land office or
the register of the land office, respectively, having the custody thereof, in the 
manner provided in section 4149 or the acts of congress shall be received in
evidence in all cases in like manner and with like effect as the original. 
SEC. 4151a. A cop~ of any record, book,
report, survey, map, field-notes, plat or other paper required by law to be kept
in the office of the commissioners of public lands of this state, when certified 
to as provided [in J section 186. shall be received in evidence with the same
e:ff eot as the original. 
SEC. 4152. 
All statements or lists of lands which shall have been certified to the state by
the president of the United States, by the head of any department of the gov­
ernment thereof, by the commissioner of the general land office or by any other
officer of the government as conveyed to the state under or by any act of con­
gress, being produced by the proper custodians thereof, shall be received in all
cases as presumptive evidence that the title of the lands therein contained or
described became thereby vested in the state. 
SEC. 4153. Every patent which
has been heretofore executed and delivered by the commissioners of school
and university lands or which shall hereafter be executed and delivered by the
commissioners of public lands, purporting to convey any land of any descrip­
tion, and every deed or patent which shall have been at any time executed and 
delivered by the governor, purporting to convey any lands granted to the 
state by the United States to aid in the construction of railroads, or militarv
roads, or any swamp or overflowed lands, shall be received as presumptive
evidence of the facts therein stated and that the grantee named therein be­ 
came vested thereby at the date thereof with an absolute title in fee to the
lands therein described, 
SEC. 4154. Everv conveyance of land or an1 estate or
interest therein which shall have been <luly executed by any sheriff, referee,
receiver or other person by virtue of or in pursuance of a sale made by virtue
of any judgment, decree, order, license or execution of any court of record of
this state or of the G nited States sitting within this state, and which shall 
have been dulv recorded in the proper county shall, as well as such record,
be received, without any proof whatever of the previous proceedings, as pre­
sumptive evidence of the facts therein stated and that the title, estate or inter­
est in the land therein described, which such conveyance purports to convey, 
of every person whom it purports to affect passed to and vested in the grantee
therein at the date thereof or at such previous date as such conveyance pur:
ports to fix for that purpose. 
SEC. 4155. Every certificate of sale of land or
any estate or interest therein which shall have been duly executed by any
sheriff, referee, receiver or other person, in pursuance of a sale made by virtue
of any judgment, decree, order, license or execution of any court of record of
this state or of the United States sitting within this state, and when so ac­
knowledged or proved as to be entitled to record, the record thereof, shall be
received as presumptive evidence of the facts therein stated. 
SEC. 4156. Every con­
veyance, as defined in section 2242, being so executed and acknowle'!ged or 
proved as to be entitled to record and every patent of land from the united
States or this state or the proper officers thereof and the record, in the office
of the proper register of deeds of every such conveyance or patent or of any in­
strument authorized by law to be recorded, and every document or paper
affecting land or the title thereto filed, deposited or kept in the office of a reg­
ister of deeds, pursuant to law, shall be received in evidence, without further
proof thereof; but such evidence and the effect thereof may be rebutted by 
other competent testimony. Whenever any presumptive effect as evidence is
given by law to any such patent, conveyance or instrument such record, as
well as the duly certified copies thereof, shall have the like effect. 
SEC. 4157. The record in Brown county, 
made prior to the first day of January in the year one thousand eight hundred
and forty, of any such conveyance or instrument mentioned in the preoed­
ing section, affecting lands situate in any other county at the time such record
was made and duly certified copies thereof, shall be received in evidence with
the same effect as if the same had been duly recorded in the county where the
land was situated except against purchasers or claimants of any title, estate,
interest or lien, in good faith and without notice, and except that no notice
shall be implied from such record. A copy of any such record, duly certified
by the register of deeds of Brown county, may also be recorded in any oounty
where the land may be situated with like effect as the original conveyance or
instrument; and any such record of any such copy heretofore made shall have 
such effect. 
SEC. 4157 a. The records of
Iron and Forest counties, which have been or may be transcribed from the
original records of other counties, of which the territory now comprising either
of said counties was formerly a part, under and by direction of the county
board of either such counties and properly attested by the affidavit of the per­
son or persons making such transcription or certified to under the hand and
official seal of the officer having the custody of such original records shall be
received in all courts as prima facie evidence of the matters therein contained
in the same manner as now provided by law for the reception of record evi­
dence, and as to Iron county shall be so received notwithstanding any defects
in said certificate, either as to form or omission therefrom of matter or facts
required by law to be stated .. One such certificate to each volume of records
or other documents so transcribed shall be deemed sufficient, 
SEC. 4158.
Whenever the record, in the office of a register of deeds, of any conveyance
or of any instrument whatever, upon which revenue stamps may have been at
any time required to be affixed by any act of congress, shall show such stamps
or any of them, more or less, to have been affixed, it shall be presumptive evi­
dence that such conveyance or instrument had properly affixed to it the num­
her and denomination of stamps required by law. 
SEC. 4159. All deeds, mortgages or other instruments in writing relating to 
real estate situated within this state and which shall have been of record in
the office of any register of deeds before these st~tutes sh~ll take effect, P.ur­
porting to. have been acknowledged or proved without this state and having 
upon them substantially the ordinary form of certificate of acknowledgment
or proof, purporting to have been signed by some officer in another state or
country, shall be deemed presumptively, in all cases, to have been acknowl­
edged or proved (as the case may be) before the proper officer and in conformitv
with the laws of such state or country where they purport to have been acknowl­
edged or proved notwithstanding the omission of a certificate, as is required 
by section 2219, or any previously existing similar statute; and the record
thereof shall have the like effect. 
SEC. 4160. The record of any marriage, birth
or death made in the register or similar books and kept in the office of any
register of deeds or made and kept in the office of the secretary of state, pur­
suant to chapter 47 or any former statute for the same purpose, shall be re­
oeived as presumptive evidence of the marriage, birth or death so recorded.
Any church, parish or baptismal record, and any record of a physician or a
person authorized to solemnize marriages in which record are preserved the
facts relating to any birth, marriage or death, including the names of the per­
sons, dates, places and other material facts, may be admitted as prima facie
evidence of any fact aforesaid. But snob record must be produced from its
proper custody and must be supported by the oath of some person having law­
ful charge thereof that it is such a record as it purports to be and is genuine
to the best of his knowledge and belief. 
SEC. 4161. The papers, documents and orders relat­ 
iag to the organization and incorporation or the alteration of the boundaries
of any village, being recorded in the office of the proper register of deeds
pursuant to Iaw, and such record and also the record thereof m the office of
the village clerk shall be received as presumptive evidence of the facts therein
stated. 
SEC. 4162. All 
entries and records made in the books in the office of any county treasurer or
of any county clerk, all assessments and tax rolls and certificates and warrants
thereto attached, all notices required to be published or posted by the county
treasurer or county clerk and the proofs of publication or posting filed in the
office of eithe~ pursuant to any law relating to the assessment or collection of 
taxes or to lands sold for taxes shall be received as presumptive evidence of
the facts therein stated. 
SEC. 4163. Whenever anv offi­
cer to whom the legal custody of any document, instrument or paper belongs 
. shall certify (under his official seal, if he have any) that he has made diligent
examination in his office for such paper, instrument or document and that it
oannot be found such certificate shall be presumptive evidence of the facts so
certified as if such officer personally testified to the same. Such a certificate,
when made by the chief clerk of the commissioners of public lands of this
state under their official seal, shall be presumptive evidence of the facts so cer­
tified as to any document, instrument or paper required by law to be kept in
the office of said commissioners.
SEC. 4164. When a public officer is required
or authorized by law to make a certificate or affidavit touching an act per­
formed by him or to a fact ascertained by him in the course of his official duty
and to file or deposit it in a public office such certificate or affidavit when so
filed or deposited shall be received as presumptive evidence of the facts therein
stated unless its effect is declared by some special provision of law.
SEC. 4165. The receiver's receipt
or certificate of purchase of public lands, signed by the receiver, and the official
certificate of any register or receiver of the entry or purchase of any land or
the location of any land by any land warrant shall be received, when held by 
the ori~inal claimant, bis heirs or assigns, as presumptive evidence that the title
to the lands therein described passed to and is vested in the person therein
named, his heirs or assigns, except when, at the time of such entry orfur­ 
chase, the land was owned or occupied by any person as mineral groun on
which discoveries of mineral ores had been made.
SEC. 4166. A certificate substantially
in the following form: 
2J~79
Sec& 1, 2, ch. 157, 1869. 
REGISTER'S 0FFJOE, -- --, 18-. 
I hereby certify that, from the books and records of the United States land
office at --, Wisconsin, it appears that -- --, on the -- day of --, 
18-, at -- entered, purchased and paid for -- of section--, township
-- north, of range --, con ta.ining -- acres. ~ 
Dated --, 18-. -- --, Re8i:ster,
being signed by the register of a land office in this state, shall be received as 
presumptive evidence of the facts therein stated. 
SEC. 4167. A certificate of the
secretary of state, substantially in the following form: 
0FFJOE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE, 
-- --, A. D. --.
I hereby certifv that, from the books, files and records of the office of the 
commissioners of public lands, it appears that on the -- day of--, A. D.
--, the following described real estate, situate in the state of Wisconsin,
viz.: --, was duly transferred by the United States to the state of Wis­ 
cousin, and that on the -- day of --, A. D. --, the above described real
estate was duly transferred by the state of Wisconsin to -- --. 
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the great (or
lesser) seal of the state this -- day of --, A. D. --. 
-- --, Secretary of State,
shall be received as presumptive evidence of the facts stated and that the per­ 
son named became vested at the date stated with an absolute title in fee to 
the lands described. 
SEC. 4168. A transcript of so
much of the several books, files, records, certificates or other written evidence
on file or of record in the office of the secretary of state or the office of the
commissioners of public lands as relates to any tract or parcel of land, with
said secretary's certificate thereto affixed substantially in the following form: 
OFFICE OF THE SECRET ARY OF STATE, 
-- --, A. D. --.
I hereby certify that the annexed and foregoing is a true and correct tran­ 
script of all books, files, records, certificates and other written or documentary
evidence of title on file or of record in this office relating or appertaining to
the title of the lands described in the foregoing transcript, and of the whole 
thereof. 
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the great (or
lesser) seal of the state this -- day of --, A. D. --. 
----, 
Secretary of State,
shall be received in evidence with the same effect as the ori~inals transcribed
and as presumptive evidence of the facts stated in such certificate. 
SEC. 4169. A certificate
bv the secretary of state, under the great (or lesser) seal, to any facts which
appear from the books, files and records in his office or the office of the com­
missioners of public lands in regard to the grant, conveyance or transfer of
any land by the United States to the territory or state of Wisconsin, and also
in regard to the sale, conveyance or transfer of any such land by said territory
or state shall be received as presumptive evidence of the facts so certified. 
SEC. 4170. A certificate by the adjutant­
general to any facts which appear from the books, files and records in his
office shall be received as presumptive evidence of the facts so certified. 
SEC. 4171. A tran­
script of so much of the several books, files, records, certificates or other writ­ 
ten evidence on file or of record in the office of any county clerk or any
county treasurer as relates to the assessment or sale for taxes of any particular 
tract or parcel of lanfl in any specified year or years, with the certificate of
such officer thereto affixed, in substantially the following form: 
I hereby certify that the annexed and foregoing is a true and correct tran­
script of all books, records, papers, files and proceedings of every name and
nature on file or of record in my office relating or in any wise appertaininu to 
the assessment of taxes upon or to the sale for taxes of the followm~ descrfhed
lands -- situated in the county of--, state of Wis~onsin, for tne year (or
years) A. D. --, and of the whole thereof. In testimony whereof I have 
hereunto set my hand this -- day of--, A. D. --. 
County Clerk (or Treasurer) of -- county, Wisconsin,
shall be received in evidence with the same effect as the ori~inals transcribed
and as presumptive evidence of the facts stated in such certificate. 
SEC. 4-172. Offi­
cial certificates of births, marriages or deaths, issued in foreign countries in
which such births, marriages or deaths have occurred, purporting to be founded
on books of record and authenticated by the signature of any United States
minister, secretary of le~ation or other diplomatic officer, or by a consul of the
United States accredited to or appointed for the foreign country in which snob
certificates are issued shall be received as presumptive evidence of the faots in 
such certificates stated. 
SEC. 4173. The affidavit of the
printer or foreman of such printer of any newspaper in the state of the pub
lication of any notice or advertisement required to be published in pnrsuanc€
of any law of the state shall be received in all cases as presumptive evidence
of such publication and of the facts stated therein. 
SEC. 4173a. Whenever any notice or other
writing is by law authorized or required to be served the affidavit of the per­
son serving it, setting forth the facts necessary to show that it was duly served, 
shall be presumptive proof that such notice or writinz was duly served. But
this section shall not apply to any service where another way of proving such
service is expressly prescribed by law. 
SEC. 4:174:. When notice of any appli­
cation to any court or judicial officer for any proceeding authorized by law is 
required to be published in one or more newspapers an affidavit of the printer
of such newspaper, or of his foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a printed
copy of such notice, taken from the paper in which it was published, and speei­ 
fymg the time when and the parer in which such notice wasrublished may 
be filed with the proper officer o the court or with the judicia officer before
whom such proceeding shall be pending, at any time within six months after
the last day of the publication of such notice, unless sooner specially required. 
SEC. 4175. When any notice of a sale of
real property is required by law to be published in any newspaper an affidavit
of the printer of such newspaper, or his foreman or principal clerk, annexed
to a printed copy of such notice, taken from the paper in which it was pub­
lished, and specifying the times when and the paper m which such notice was
published may be filed, at any time within six months after the last day of such
publication, with the register of deeds of the county in which the premises
sold are situated. 
SEC. 4176. The original affl.
davit so filed pursuant to the two last preceding sections and copies thereof
dulv certified by the officer in whose custody the same shall be shall be pre­
sumptive evidence in all cases and in every court or judicial proceeding of the
faot contained in such affidavit. 
SEC. 4:177. The regis­
ter of deeds and the clerk of any court of record in every county of this state,
upon being paid the fees allowed therefor by law, shall receive and deposit in
their offices, respectively, any instruments or papers which anv person shall
offer to them for that purpose and, if required, shall give to ·such person a
written receipt therefor. 
SEC. 4:178. Such instruments or papers
shall be properly indorsed so as to indicate their general nature and the names
of the parties thereto, shall be filed by the officer receiving the same, stating
the time when received, and shall he deposited and kept by him and his suc­
cessors in office in the same manner as his official papers, in some place separ
rate and distinct from such papers. 
SEC. 4179. The instruments or papers so received
and deposited shall not be withdrawn from such office, except on the order of
some court for the purpose of being read in evidence in such court, and then
to be returned to such office; nor shall they be delivered without such order 
to any person, unless upon the written order of the person who deposited the
same or his executors or administrators. 
SEC. 4180. Such instruments or papers so de­ 
posited shall be open to the examination of any person desiring the same, upon
the payment of the fees allowed by law.
SEC. 4181. Any charter or patent of incorpo­
ration which shall have been issued by the governor or secretary of state, or
both, to any corporation .under any law of the state; any certificate of or~n­
ization or association of any corporation or joint-stock company; the articles 
of association or organization of any corporation, or a certified copy thereof, 
which shall have been tiled or recorded in the office of the secretary of state,
or of any register of deeds or clerk of the circuit court under any law of the
state; any certificate or resolution for the purpose of amendment, and every
amendment in any form, of the charter, patent, certificate or articles of asso­
ciation or organization or of the name, corporate powers or purposes of anv
corporation, filed or recorded in either of said offices and a dnly certified copy
of any such document so filed or recorded shall be received as oonolusive evi­
dence of the existence of the corporation or joint-stock company mentioned
therein, or of the due amendment of the charter, patent, certificate or articles
of association or organization thereof in all cases where such facts are only
collaterally involved; and as presumptive evidence thereof and of the facts
therein stated in all .other cases. 
SEC. 4181a. Whenever
the articles of organization or by-laws of any corporation require or authorize 
any notice to be given, posted or served, an affidavit of the person who gave,
posted or served the same, specifying the manner and time of doing so, annexed
to a copy of such notice, may be filed with the clerk or secretary of the corpo­
ration to whose affairs such notice relates, and when so filed, the original or
copies thereof, duly certified by the officer in whose custody the same may be,
shall be presumptive evidence in all cases and in every court or judicial pro­
ceeding of the facts contained in such affidavit. 
SEC. 4182. Whenever an as­
sessment is made on any premium note given to any mutual insurance com­
pany for any hazard taken by said company or as a consideration for any pol·
icy issued or to be issued by said company, or whenever any assessment is
made by the directors or other proper otticers of any such company for money
due it from anv member thereof. and action is brought to recover such assess­
ment, the certificate of the secretary of said company, specifying such assess­
ment, the amount due said company by means thereof and that notice thereof
was given the person liable therefor shall be received as presumptive evidence
of the facts so certified. 
SEC. 4182a. Whenever any evidence shall be required from the books of any 
life or mutual benefit insurance corporation or association engaged in doing
business on the level premium or assessment plan, at the time of the trial of
the action or proceeding in which such evidence is needed, verified copies of
the entries in such books, together with statements showing the number of mem­
bers insured in or belonging to such corporation or association, and the num­
ber of members in each class or grade thereof and the a~gregate amount which
would be due from them upon a single assessment, wnen made bv the secre­
tary or other officer thereof having the custody of such books, under oath or
affidavit, stating that such copy or copies are true and are taken from the
regular books of the corporation or association used and kept for the trans­
action of its business, and that such books are now in his custody or under his
control shall be received in all legal proceedings as prima faoie evidence of
such entries or statements. No officer of any such corporation or association
shall be compelled, unless by special order of the court or officer before whom
the action or proceeding in which such evidence is required, to produce any
books or records thereof before the same; provided, the verified entries and
statements herein required shall be served upon the attorney of the party who 
- requires them at least six days before the term of court or time set for the
trial or hearing of such action or proceeding, and that such books and records
shall be subject to the inspection of any interested party or his attorney to
the extent prescribed by all orders made by such court or officer on proper
application therefor. Any person who shall wilfully and corruptly make a
false copy of any entry or statement herein provided for or give false testimony
concerning the same shall be deemed guilty of perjury. 
SEC. 4183. The court before which -
an action is pending, or a judge thereof, may, in discretion and upon due 
. notice, order either party to give to the other, within a specified time, an in­
spection and copy or permission to take a cory of any books, papers and doou-: 
ments in his possession or under his contro containing evidence relating to
the merits of the action or of the defense therein. If compliance with the 
order be refused the court, on motion, may exclude the paper from being given
in evidence or punish the party refusing, or both.
SEC. 4184. Either party may exhibit to the other or his attor­
ney, at anv time before the trial, any paper material to the action and request 
an admission in writing of its genuineness. If the adverse party or his attor­
ney fail to give the admission within four days after the request, and if the
party exhibiting the paper be afterward put to expense in order to prove its
genuineness and the same be fully rroved or admitted on the trial, such ex­
pense, to be ascertained at the tria , shall be paid by the ·1arty refusing the
admission unless it aprear to the satisfaction of the court that there were good 
reasons for the refusa 
SEC. 4185. Every written instrument, ex­
cept promissory notes and bills of exchange, and except the last wills of de­
ceased persons? may be proved or acknowledged in the manner now provided
by law for takmg the proof or acknowledgment of conveyances of real estate,
and the certificate of the proper officer indorsed thereon shall entitle such in·
strument to be read in evidence in all courts of justice and in all proceedings
before anv officer, body or board with the same effect and in the same man­
ner as if such instrument were a conveyance of real estate. 
SEC. 4186. Whenever a party in any cause or pro­
ceeding shall produce at the trial his account books and swear that the same
are his account books, kept for that purpose; that they contain the original
entries of charges for goods or other articles delivered, or work and labor or
other services performed or materials found, and that such entries are just, to
the best of his knowledge and belief; that said entries are in his own hand­
writing and that they were made at or about the time said goods or other articles were delivered, said work and labor or other services were performed
or said materials were found, the party offering such book or books as evidence,
being subject to all the rules of cross-examination by the ad verse party that
would be applicable by the rules to any other witness giving testimony relat­
ing to said book or books, if it shall appear upon the examination of said party
that all of the interrogatories in this section contained are satisfactorily estab­
lished in the affirmative, then the said book or books shall be received as pre­
sumptive evidence in proof of the charges therein contained. 
SEC. 4187. Whenever
the original entries mentioned in the preceding section are in the handwriting
of an agent, servant or clerk of the party the oath of such agent, servant or
clerk may in like manner be admitted to verify the same, and said books shall
be testimony in the same manner as the books mentioned in the preceding sec­
tion; provided, that such books mentioned in this and the preceding section
shall not be admitted as testimony of any item of money delivered at one time
exceeding five dollars, or of money paid to third persons, or of charges for rent. 
SEC. 4188. Where a book has marks which
show that the items have been transferred to a ledger the book shall not be 
testimony unless the ledger be produced.
SEC. 4189. Anv entries made in a book by a person authorized to make the same,
he being dead, may be received as evidence in a case proper for the admission
of such books as evidence. Entries in a book or other permanent form, other
than those mentioned in sections 4186 and 4189b, in the usual course of busi­
ness, contemporaneous with the transactions to which they relate and as part
of or connected with such transactions, made by persons authorized to make
the same, may be received in evidence when shown to have been so made upon
the testimony either of the person who made the same, or if he be beyond the
reach of a subpcena of the trial court or insane, of any person having custody
of the entries and testifying that the same were made by a person or persons
authorized to make them m whose handwriting they are, and that they are
true and correct to the best of his know ledge and belief. In case such entries
are, in the usual course of the business, also made in other books or papers as
a part of the system of keeping a record of such transactions, it shall not be
necessary to produce as witnesses all of the persons subject to subpcena who
were encraged in the making of such entries; but before such entries are ad­
mitted the court shall be satisfied that they are genuine and in other respects
within the provisions of this section.
SEC. 418~a. Comparison of a disputed writ­
ing with any writing proved to the satisfaction of the court to be the genuine 
handwriting of any person claimed on the trial to have made or executed the
disputed instrument or writing shall be permitted to be made by witnesses,
and such writings and evidence respecting them may be submitted to the court 
or jury. 
SEC. 4189b. Whene'fer any evidence
shall be required in any court or before any officer from the books of any bank 
or banker doing business at the time any action or proceeding is ready for trial
o.r hearing, copies of entries therein, .when verified by t~e affidavit or th~ tes­ 
timony of an officer of the bank, stating that the book 1s one of the ordinarv
books of the bank used in the transaction of its business, that the entrv copied
was originally made therein at the time of its date and in the usual course of
the busrness of the bank, that there are no interlineations or erasures, that the
book is in the custody or control of the bank, that the copy has been com­
pared with the book and is a correct copy of the entries made therein, shall
be prima facie evidence in all le~l proceedings of such entry or entries; and
no bank officer or banker shall be compelled to produce the original book or
attend at the trial of any such proceeding as a witness unless specially ordered
so to do by the court or officer before whom it is pending; provided, any such
book shall be open to the inspection of any party interested in the action or
proceeding. Any person who shall wilfully and corruptly make a false copy
of any entry in any such book and make the affidavit herein required to the
same or give false testimony in relation thereto shall be guilty of perjury. 
SEC. 4190. In any action founded upon any
negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, or in which such note, if pro­
duced, might be allowed as a set-oft in the defense of any action, if it appear
on the trial that such note or bill was lost while it belonged to the party
claiming the amount due thereon parol or other evidence of the contents
thereof may be given on such trial; and notwithstanding such note or bill was
negotiable such r.arty shall be entitled to recover the amount due thereon as
if such note or bill had been produced. 
SEC. 4191. But to entitle a party to such recovery he shall exe­
cute a bond to the adverse party in a penalty at least double the amount of
such note or bill, with two sureties to be approved by the court in which
the trial shall be had, conditioned to indemnify the adverse party, his heirs
and personal representatives against all claims by any other person on account
of such note or bill and against all costs and expenses by reason of such claim. 
SEC. 4192. Every written instrument purporting to
have been signed or executed by any person shall be proof that it was so signed
or executed until the person by whom it purports to have been so signed or 
SEC. executed shall specifically deny the signature or execution of the same bv bis
oath or affidavit or by his pleading duly verified; but this section shal'l not
extend to instruments purporting to have been signed or executed byany per­
son who shall have died previous to the requirement of such proof. 
SEC. 4193. In all actions brought
on promissory notes or bills of exchange by the indorsee the possession of the
aote shall be presumptive evidence that the same was indorsed by the persons
by whom it purports to be indorsed. 
SEC. 4194.
Warehouse receipts, bills of lading or railroad receipts given for any goods,
wares, merchandise, lumber, timber, grain, fl.our or other produce or commod­ 
ity stored, shipped or deposited with any warehouseman, wharfinger, vessel,
boat or railroad company or other person on the face of which shall not be
plainly written the words "not negotiable" may be transferred by delivery
with or without indorsement thereof; and any person tow horn the same may be
so transferred shall be deemed and taken to be the owner of the goods, wares
and merchandise therein specified so far as to give validity to any pledge, lien
or transfer made or created by such person or persons; but no such property
shall be delivered except on surrender and cancellation of said original receipt, 
or bill of lading or the indorsement of such delivery thereon in case of partial
delivery. 
SEC. 4195. A .. seal upon an executory instrument here­
after executed shall be received as only presumptive evidence of a sufficient
consideration, which may be rebutted as if the instrument was not sealed 
SEC. 4196. Whenever the
extent of the total area of towns or counties shall be in question townships 
not returned as fractional, by reason of being bounded on navigable lakes or
the state line, by the surveys under authority of and according to which the
public lands were sold by the United States shall be held to be six miles
square; and townships returned as fractional for such reason shall be held to
contain the number of miles and fractions of miles shown by such surveys or
the plats thereof. 
SEC. 4197. Whenever in any action
the plaintiff or defendant shall allege in their pleadings that the plaintiff or
defendant or third persons were partners at any particular time or that as
such partners they used any particular partnership name or style under which
business was done such a.verments shall be taken to be true unless expressly
denied by the affidavit of the opposite party or some one in his behalf or by
his pleading duly verified, withm the usual time of pleading. 
SEC. 4198. In actions against two or more defendants
upon contracts in writing, alleged to have been executed by such defendants
as partners, or otherwise, proof of the joint liability of the defendants shall
not be required to entitle the plaintiff to judgment unless .such proof shall be
rendered necessary by answer, duly verified, denying the execution of such
writing. 
SEC. 4199. In actions by or against any corpo­
ration it shall not be necessary to prove on the trial the existence of such corpo­
ration unless the defendant by his answer, duly verified, shall have specifically
denied that the plaintiff or defendant, as the case may be, is a corporation. 
SEC. 4200. Whenever
a plaintiff shall sue as an executor, administrator, guardian or trustee and shall
allege in his complaint his due appointment as such, and, if appointed in an­
other state or foreign country, the filing or recording of the authenticated copy
of his appointment, as required by the laws of this state, such allegations shall
be taken as true unless specifically denied by the defendant by his answer duly
verified. 
SEC. 4201. If the defendant in any
action for slander or for publishing a libel shall set up in his answer that the
words spoken or published were true such answer, though not maintained by
evidence, shall not, in any case, be of itself proof of the malice alleged in the
complaint. 
SEC. 4202. In every action upon anv official bond the
original bond or a certified copy thereof shall be presumptfve evidence of the
due execution thereof by the officer and his sureties. 
SEC. 4203. Whenever any oath or affidavit is or may be required or authorized
by any law of this state the same may be taken in any other state, territory or
district of the United States before any judge or commissioner of a court of
record, master in chancery, notary public, justice of the peace or other officer
authorized by the laws of such state, territory or district to administer oaths,
and in case the same shall have been properly certified by any such officer to
have been taken before him and shall have attached thereto a certificate of the
clerk or other proper certifying officer of a court of record of the county or
district within which such oath or affidavit was taken1 under the seal of his of­
fice, that the person whose name is subscribed to the jurat was, at the date
thereof, such officer as he is therein represented to be and that he believes the
signature of such officer to ho genuine, such oath or affidavit may be read or
used in any court of record or not of record within this state and before any
officer, judicial, executive or administrative, the same as though it had been
taken in conformity to law in this state. Whenever any such oath or affidavit
is certified by any notary public and an impression of his official seal is thereto
affixed no further attestation shall be necessary. 
SEC. 4204. Any creditor to
whom two or more persons are jointly indebted, either upon contract or the
Judgment of any court of record, may release one or more of the persons so
Jointly liable from such joint indebtedness; and such release shall operate as
a satisfaction or discharge of such joint debt only to the amount of the pro­
portion which the person so released ought in equity, as between himself and
the other joint debtor or debtors, to pay; and as to the balance of such joint
debt the contract or judgment, as the case may be, on which the same is owing
shall be and remain in full force as to the joint debtor or debtors not so re­
leased and may be enforced against him or them alone the same as if such joint
contract or judgment had been made or rendered against him or them alone;
provided, that if the amount paid by the rerson released in any case to procure
his release shall exceed the proportion o such joint debt which he, as between
himself and co-debtor or creditors, ought to pay then such joint debt shall
thereby be satisfied to the extent of the sum actually paid to procure such re­
lease; and provided also, that if the person released is only a surety his release
shall operate as payment of such joint debt to the extent of the money actually
paid by him to procure his release and no further. 
SEC.  4205. The provisions of the preceding section shall not so apply to joint debts owing by one or more person or per­
sons as principal and another or others as surety or sureties as to permit the
principal debtor or debtors to be released without the discharge of liis or their
surety or sureties. 
SEC. 4206. 
Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods prescribed in this chapter, except when, in special cases, a different limitation is provided by 
statute. But the objection that the action was not commenced within the time
limited can only be taken by answer or demurrer in proper cases
SEC. 4207. No actionfor the re­ 
covery of real property or the possession thereof shall be maintained unless it
appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor or grantor was seized or
possessed of the premises in question within twenty years before the com­
mencement of such action. 
SEC. 4208. No defense
or counter-claim, founded upon the title to real property or to rents or serv­
ices out of the same, shall be effectual unless the person making it or under
whose title it is made, or bis ancestor, predecessor or grantor was seized or
possessed of the premises in question within twenty years before the commit­
ting of the act with respect to which it is made
SEC. 4209. No entry upon real
estate shall be deemed sufficient or valid as a claim unless an action be com­ 
menced thereupon within one year after the making of such entry and within
twenty years from the time when the right to make such entry descended or
accrued; and when held adversely under the provisions of section 4212, within
ten years from the time when such ad verse possession begun.
SEC. 4210. In every action to recover
real property or the possession thereof the person establishing a legal title to
the premises shall be presumed to have been possessed thereof within the time
required by law, and the occupation of such premises by another person shall
be deemed to have been under and in subordination to the legal title unless
it appear that such premises have been held and possessed adversely to such
legal title for ten years, under the provisions of the next section, or twenty
years under the provisions of section 4213, before the commencement of such
action. 
SEC. 4:211. Where the occupant or those under whom he claims entered
into the possession of any premises under claim of title, exclusive of any other 
right, founding such claim upon some written instrument, as being a convey­
ance of the premises in question, or upon the judgment of some competent
court, and that there has been a continual occupation and possession of the
premises included in such instrument or judgment or of some part of such
premises under such claim for ten years, the premises so included shall be
deemed to have been held adversely; except that when the premises so in­
cluded consist of a tract divided into lots the possession of one lot shall not be
deemed the possession of any other lot of the same tract. 
SEC. 4212. For the purpose of consti­
tuting an adverse possession by any person claiming a title founded upon some
written instrument or some judgment land shall be deemed to have been pos­
sessed and occupied in the following cases: 
1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved. •
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclosure;
8. Where, although not inolosed, it has been used for the supply of fuel or 
of fencing timber for the purpose of husbandry or for the ordinary use of the
occupant; 
4. Where a known farm or & single lot has been partly improved the por­
tion of such farm or lot that may have been left not cleared or not incJosed,
according to the usual course and custom of the adjoining country, shall be
deemed to have been occupied for the same length of time as the part im­
proved or cultivated. 
SEC. 4213. ,vben there has been an actual continued occupation of anv prem­
ises under a claim of title, exclusive of any other right, but not founded upon
any written instrument or any judgment or decree, the premises so actually
occupied, and no other, shall be deemed to be held adversely. 
SEC. 4214. For the purpose of con­
stituting an adverse possession by a person claiming title, not founded upon
some written instrument or some judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to
have been possessed and occupied in the following cases only: 
1. When it has been protected by a substantial inclosure.
2. When it has been usually cultivated or improved. 
SEC. 421q. An ad­
verse possession of ten years under sections 4~11 and 4212 or of twenty years
under the two last preceding sections shall constitute a bar to an action for the
rccornry of such real estate so held adversely or of the possession thereof. 
SEC. 4216. Whenever the
relation of landlord· and tenant shall have existed between any persons the
possession of the tenant shall be deemed the possession of the landlord until
the expiration of ten years from the termination of the tenancy; or where
there has been no written lease until the expiration of ten vears from the time­ 
-of the last payment of rent, notwithstanding such tenant· may have acquired
another title or may have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord; but such
presumption shall not be made after the periods herein limited. 
SEC. 4216a. No presumption of the right to.
maintain any wire or cable used for telegraph, telephone, electric li~ht or any 
other electrical use or purpose whatever shall arise from the lapse or time dur­
ing which the same has been or shall be attached to or extended over any
building or land; nor shall any prescriptive right to maintain the same result
from the continued maintenance thereof. 
SEC. 4217. The right of any person to the pos­
session of any real estate shall not be impaired or affected by a descent being
cast in consequence of the death of any person in possession of such estate. 
SEC. 4218. If a person entitled to
commence any action for the recovery of real property or to make an entry· 
or defense founded on the title to real property or to rents or services out of
the same be, at the time such title shall first descend or accrue, either 
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or
2. Insane; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge or in execution upon conviction of a 
criminal offense, for a. term less than for life,
The time during which such disability shall continue shall not be deemed 
any portion of the time in this chapter limited for the commencement of such
action or the making of such entrv or defense; but such action mav be com­
menced or entrr, or defense made,"'after the time limited and within five years
after the disability shall cease or after the death of the person entitled, who
shall die under such disability; but such action shall not be commenced or
entry or defense made after that period. 
SEC. 4219. The following actions
must be commenced within the periods respectively hereinafter prescribed after
the cause of action has accrued. 
SEC. 4220. Within twenty years:
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of record of this state 
or of the United States sitting within this state.
2. An action upon a sealed instrument when the cause of action accrues 
within this state, except those mentioned in sections 984, 3968 and 4222. 
SEC. 4221. Within ten years:
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of record of any other 
state or territory of the United States or of any court of the United States
sitting without this state. 
2. An action upon a sealed instrument when the cause of action accrued with­
out this state, except those mentioned in the next section. 
3. An action for the recovery of damages for flowing lands, when such lands
have been flowed by reason of the construction or maintenance of any mill-dam. 
4. An action which, on and before the twenty-eighth day of February in the 
year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-seven, was cognizable by the court
of chancery, when no other limitation is prescribed in this chapter: 
SEC. 4222. Within six vears:
1. An action upon a judgment of a court not of record.
2. An action upon any bond, coupon, interest warrant or other contract for 
the payment of money, ·whether sealed or otherwise, made or issued by any
town, county, city, village or school district in this state. 
3. An action upon any other contract, obligation or liability, express or im­
plied, except those mentioned in the last two preceding sections. 
4. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a. penalty or for­
feiture, when a different limitation is not prescribed by law. 
5. An action to recover damages for an injury to property, real or personal,
or for an injury to the person, character or rights of another, not arising on 
contract, except in case where a different period is expressly prescribed. But 
no action to recover damages for injuries to the person, received without this
state, shall be brought in any court in this state when such action shall be
barred bv any statute of limitations of actions of the state or country in which
such injury was received unless the person so injured shall, at the time of such
injury, have been a. resident of this state. No action to recover damages for
an injury to the person shall be maintained unless, within one year after the
happening of the event causing such damages, notice in writing, signed by the
party damaged, his agent or attorney, shall he served upon the person or cor­
posation by whom it is claimed such damage was caused, stating the time and
place where such damage occurred, a brief description of the injuries, the man­
ner in which they were received and the grounds upon which claim is made
and that satisfaction thereof is claimed of such person or corporation. Such
notice shall be given in the manner required for the service of summons in
courts of record. No such notice shall be deemed insufficient or invalid solely 
because of any inaccuracy or failure therein in stating the description of the
injuries, the manner in which they were received or the grounds on which the
claim is made, provided it shall appear that there was no mtention on the part
of the person giving the notice to mislead the other party and that such party
was not in fact misled thereby; provided, that th~ provision her~in requiring
notice of one year shall not appl v to ~ny event causmg .damage which happen ea
before the twenty-eighth day of Aprll, one thousand eight hundred and nmety­
seven, nor shall that part of section 5 of chapter 304 of the la we of one thou­
sand eight hundred and ninety-seven, relating to such notice, apply to any
such event. 
6. An action to recover personal property or damages for the wrongful tak­
ing or detention thereof. 
7. An action for relief on the ground of fraud in a case which was, on and
before the twenty-ei~bth day of February, A. D. one thousand eight hundred
and fifty-seven, co~mzable solely by the court of chancery. The cause of ac­
tion in such case is not deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the
aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud. 
SEC. 4223. Within three vears:
An action against a sheriff, coroner, town clerk or constable upon a. liability 
incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity and in virtue of his of­
fice or by the omission of an official duty, including the non-payment of money
collected upon execution. But this section shall not apply to an action for an
escape. 
SEC. 4224. Within two years:
1. An action upon a statute penalty or forfeiture when the action is given 
to the party prosecuting therefor and the state or to the state alone, except
when the statute imposing it provides a different limitation. 
. 2 .. An action to recover damages for libel, slander, assault, battery or false
imprisonment. 
8. An action brought by the personal representatives of a deceased person
to recover damages, when the death of such person was caused by the wrong­ 
ful act, neglect or default of another.
4. An action to recover a. forfeiture or penalty imposed by any by-law, 
ordinance or regulation of any town, county, city or village or of any corpo­
ration organized under the laws of this state, when no other limitation is pre­ 
scribed by law. 
SEC. 4225. Within one year:
An action against a sheriff or other officer for the escape of a prisoner ar­ 
rested or imprisoned on civil process.
SEC. 4226. In actions brought to recover
the balance due upon a mutual and open account current the cause of action 
shall be deemed to have accrued at the time of the last item proved in such
account. 
SEC. 4227. All personal actions on any con­
tract not limited by this chapter or any other law of this state shall be
brought within ten years after the accruing of the cause of action. 
SEC. 4229. The limitations prescribed
in this chapter shall apply to actions brought in the name of the state or for 
its benefit m the same manner as to actions by private parties; but no person
can obtain title to real property belonging to the state by adverse possession,
prescription or user unless such adverse possession, prescription or user shall
have been continued uninterruptedly for more than forty years. 
SEC. 4230. None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to any action brought upon any bills, notes or other evi­
dences of debt issued by any bank or issued or put into circulation as money. 
SEC. 4231. If when the cause
of action shall accrue against anv person he shall be out of this state such ac­
tion may be commenced within the terms herein respectively limited after such
person shall return or remove to this state. But the foregoing provision shall
not apply to any case where, at the time the cause of action shall accrue, neither
the party against or in favor of whom the same shall accrue is a resident of
this state; and if, after a cause of action shall have accrued against any per­
son, he shall depart from and reside out of this state the time of his absence
shall not be deemed or taken as any part of the time limited for the commence­
ment of such action; provided, that no foreign corporation which owns or
operates within this state a manufacturing plant and which shall have filed
with the secretary of state, duly executed by its president and secretary and
to which its corporate seal is attached, an instrument appointing a resident of
this state its attorney for it and on its behalf to accept service of process in
all actions commenced against it upon causes of action arising in this state,
shall be deemed a person out of this state within the meaning of this section.
SEC. 4232. When a person shall be an
alien subject or citizen of a country at war with the United States the time of
the continuance of the war shall not be a part of the time limited for the com­
mencement of the action. 
SEC. 4233. If a person entitled to bring
an action mentioned in this chapter, except actions for the recovery of a pen­
alty or forfeiture or against a sheriff or other officer for an escape, or for the
recovery of real property or the possession thereof be, at the time the cause of
action accrued, either 
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or
2. Insane; or
3. Imprisoned on a. criminal charge or in execution under sentence of a crim­ 
inal court for a term less than his natural life,
The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited for the com­ 
mencement of the action, except that the period within which the action must
be erought cannot be extended more than five years by any such disability, ex­
cept infancy; nor can it be so extended in any case longer than one year after
the disability ceases
SEC. 4234. If a. person entitled to bring
an action die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof and the cause of action survive an action may be commenced by his
representatives after the expiration of that time and within one year from his
death. If a person against whom an action may be brought die before the
expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof and the cause
of action survive an action may be commenced after the expiration of that
time and within one year after the issuing, within this state, of letters testa­
mentary or of administration. 
SEC. 4235. If an action shall
be commenced within the time prescribed therefor and a judgment therein 
for the plaintiff be reversed on appeal the plaintiff, or if he die and the cause
of action survive, his heirs or representatives may commence a new action
within one year after the reversal. 
SEC. 4236. When the commencement of an ao­
tion shall be stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition the time of the con·
tinuance of the mjunction or prohibition shall not be part of the time limited
for the commencement of the action.
SEC. 4237. No person shall avail himself of a. disability
unless it existed when his right of action accrued. 
SEC. 4238. When two or more disabilities
shall co-exist at the time the right of action accrued the limitation shall not
attach until they all be removed. 
SEC. 4239. An action _ shall be deemed
commenced, within the meaning of any provision of law which limits the time
for the commencement of an action, as to each defendant, when the summons
is served on him or on a. co-defendant who is a joint contractor or otherwise
united in interest with him. 
SEC. 4240. An attempt to commence
an action shall be deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof, within
the meaning of any provision of law which limits the time for the commence­
ment of an action, when the summons is delivered, with the intent that it shall
be actually served, to the sheriff or other proper officer of the county in which
the defendants. or one of them usually or last resided; or if a corporation or­
ganized under the laws of this state be defendant to the sheriff or the proper
officer of the county in which it was established by law, or where its general
business is transacted, or where it keeps an office for the transaction of busi­
ness, or wherein any officer, attorney, agent or other person upon whom the­
summons may by law be served resides or has his office; or if such corpora­
tion has no such place of business or any officer or other person upon whom
the summons may by law be served known to the plaintiff, or if such defend­
ant be a non-resident, or a non-resident corporation, to the sheriff or other
proper officer of the county in which plaintiff shall bring his action. But such
an attempt must be followed by the first publication of the summons or the
service thereof within sixty days. If the action be in a court not of record the
service thereof must be made with due diligence. 
SEC. 4241. The certificate of the
sheriff or other proper officer indorsed upon the summons, stating the time
when he received tlie same for service, shall be presumptive evidence that he 
-did receive the summons for service on the day in such certificate named. 
SEC. 4242. The presentation of any claim, in cases
where by law such presentment is required, to the county board of the proper
county, the board of audit of the proper town, city or village or to the countv
court shall be deemed the commenoement of an aotion within the meaning of
any law limiting the time for the commencement of an action thereon. 
SEC. 4243. No acknow le<lg­ 
ment or promise shall be sufficient evidence of a new or continuing contract,
whereby to take the cause out of the operation of this chapter, unless the same
be contained in some writing signed by the party to be charged thereby. 
SEC. 4244. If there are 
two or more joint contractors or joint administrators of any contractor no
such joint contractor, executor or administrator shall lose the benefit of the
provisions of this chapter so as to be chargeable by reason only of any ac­
knowledgment or promise made by any other or others of them. 
SEC. 4245. In actions com­ 
menced against two or more joint contractors or joint executors or adminis­
trators of any contractors, if it shall appear, on the trial or otherwise, that the
plaintiff is barred by the provisions of this chapter as to one or more of the
defendants, but is entitled to recover against any other or others of them, bv 
virtue of a new acknowledgment or promise, or otherwise, judgment shall be 
given for the plaintiff as to any of the defendants against whom he is entitled
to recover and for the other defendant or defendants against the plaintiff. 
SEC. 4246. If in any action on
contract the defendant shall answer that any other person ought to have been 
jointly sued and shall verify such answer by his oath or affirmation, and issue
shall be joined thereon, and it shall appear on the trial that the action is
barred against the person so named in such answer by reason of the provis­
ions of this chapter, the issue shall be found for the plaintiff. 
SEC. 4247. Nothing contained in
tho fou~ preced~ng. section~ shall alter, take away or lessen the ~ffect of a pay­ 
ment of any principal or interest made by any person, but no indorscmeut or 
memorandum of any such payment, written or made upon any promissory note,
bill of exchange or other writing, by or on behalf of the party to whom such
payment shall be made or purport to be made, shall be deemed sufficient proof
of the payment so as to take the case out of the operation of the provisions of 
this chapter. 
SEC. 4248. If there are two
or more joint contractors or joint executors or administrators of any contractor
no one of them shall lose the benefit of the provisions of this chapter, so as to
be chargeable, by reason only of any payment made by any other or others of 
them. 
SEC. 4249. The periods of limita­
tion, unless otherwise specially prescribed by law, must be computed from the
time of the accruing of the right to relief by action, special proceedings, defense
or otherwise, as the case requires, to the time when the claim to that relief is
actually interposed by the party as a plaintiff or defendant in the particular
action or special proceeding, except that as to a defense, set-off or counter-claim
the time of the commencement of the plaintiff's action shall be deemed the
time when the claim for relief as to such defense, set-off or counter-claim is in- 
terposed. · · 
SEC. 4250. When a defendant in an
action has interposed an answer as a defense, set-off or counter-claim upon which
he would be entitled to rely in such action the remedy upon which, at the
time of the commencement of such action, was not barred by law, and such
complaint is dismissed or the action is discontinued the time which intervened
between the commencement and the termination of such action shall not be
deemed a part of the time limited for the commencement of an action by the
defendant to recover for the cause of action so interposed as a defense, set-off
or counter-claim.
SEC. 4251. There being no
person in existence who is authorized to bring an action thereon at the time
a cause of action accrues shall not extend the time within which, according to
the provisions of this chapter, an action can be commenced upon such cause of
action to more than double the period otherwise prescribed by law. 
SEC. 4252. This chapter shall not affect
actions against directors or stockholders of a moneyed corporation or banking
association to recover a forfeiture imposed or to enforce a liability created by
law; but such actions must be brought within six years after the discovery by
the aggrieved party of the facts upon which the forfeiture attached or the lia­
bility was oreated. 
SEC. SEOTioN 4253. In addition to the actions which survive at 
common law the following shall also survive: Actions for the recovery of per­
sonal property or the unlawful withholding or conversion thereof, for assault
and battery, false imprisonment or other damage to the person, for goods taken
and carried away, for damages done to real or personal estate, equitable ac­
tions to set aside conveyances of real estate, to compel a reconveyance thereof,
or to quiet the title thereto, and for a specific performance of contracts relat­
ing to real estate. 
SEC. 4254. When any ao­ 
tion mentioned in the preceding section shall be prosecuted to judgment against
the executor or administrator the plaintiff shall be entitled to recover only for
the value of the goods taken or for the damages aotuallv sustained, without
any vindictive or exemplary damages or damages for alleged outrage to the
feelings of the injured party. 
SEC. 4255. Whenever the
death of a person shall be caused by a wrongful act, neglect or default and 
the act, neglect or default is such as would, if death had not ensued, have en­ titled the party injured to maintain an action and recover damages in respect
thereof, then and in every such case the person who, or the corporation which,
would have been liable, if death had not ensued, shall be liable to an action
for damages notwithstanding the death of the person injured; provided, that
such action shall be brought for a death caused in this state. 
SEC. 4256. Every such
action shall be brought by and in the name of the personal representative of
such deceased person, and the amount recovered shall belonz and be paid over
to the husband or widow of such deceased person, if such re~ati\·e survive him
or her; but if no husband or widow survive the deceased the amount recov­
ered shall be paid over to his or her lineal descendants and to his or her lineal
ancestors in default of such descendants; and in every such action the jury
may give such damages, not exceeding five thousand dollars, as they shall deem
fair and just in reference to the pecuniary injury resulting from such death to
the relatives of the deceased specified in this section. 
SEC. 4256a. The propriet9r, publisher,
editor, writer or reporter upon any newspaper published m this state shall not
be liable in any civil action for libel for the publication in such newspaper
of a true and fair report of any judicial, legislative or other public official
proceeding authorized by law or of any public statement, speech, argument
or debate in the course of such proceeding. This section shall not be con­
strued to exempt any such· proprietor, publisher, editor, writer or reporter from
liability for any libelous matter contained in any head line or headings to any 
such report, or to libelous remarks or comments added or interpolated in any
such report or made and published concerning the same, which remarks or
comments were not uttered by the person libeled or spoken concerning him in 
the course of such proceeding by some other person. Any true statement, ex­
planation, correction or retraction published without comment in any such
newspaper within a reasonable time after any publication in violation of this section, or after the publication of any libelous matter, or in the next issue
after notice of such publication may be introduced upon the trial of any such
action as a sufficient defense against any imputation of malice and against the
recovery of any damages except actual damages. 
SEC. 4257. When personal prop­
erty is divisible and owned by tenants in common and one tenant in common 
shall claim and hold possession of more than his share or proportion thereof
his co-tenant, after making a demand in writing, may sue for and recover his
share oP the value thereof; and the court may direct the jury, if necessary, in ·
any such action to find what specific articles or what share or interest belongs
to the respective parties, and the court shall enter up judgment in form for
one or both of the parties against the other, according to such verdict. 
SEC. 4258. In the following cases
a demand by one party may be set off against and as a defense, in whole or in
part, to demands by the other: 
1. It must be a demand arising upon a judgment or upon contract, express
or implied, whether such contract be written or unwritten, sealed or without
seal; and if it be founded upon a bond or other contract having a penalty the
sum equitably due by virtue of its conditions only shall be set off.
2. It must be due to him in bis own ri~ht, either as being the original cred­
itor or payee or as being the assignee ana owner of the demand. 
3. It must have existed at the time of the commencement of the action, and
must then have belonged to the party claiming to set off the same. 
4. It can be allowed only in actions founded upon demands which could
themselves be the subject of set-off according to law. 
5. If the action or counter-claim be founded upon a contract, other than a
negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, which bas been assigned to
the party a demand existing against such party or any assignor of such con­
tract, at the time of his assignment thereof and belonging to the opposite
party, in good faith before notice of such assignment, may be set off to the
amount otherwise recoverable upon such contract if the demand be such as
might have been set off against the party or assignor while the contract be-
longed to him. · 
6. If the action be upon a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange
which has been assigned to the party after it became due a set-off to the ex­
tent of the amount otherwise recoverable thereon may be made of a .demand 
existing against any person who shall have assigned or transferred such note
or bill after it became due, if the demand be such as might have been set off
against the assignor while the note or bill belonged to hini. 
SEC. 4259. If the party against whom
the set-off is claimed be a trustee or a person expressly authorized by statute
to sue so much of a demand existing against those whom the party represents
or for whose benefit he sues may be set off as will satisfy the claim, if the
same might have been set off in an action by those beneficially interested. 
SEC. 4260. In actions brought by ex­
ecutors and administrators demands existing against their testators or intes­
tates, and belonging to the defendant at the time of their death, may be set
off by the defendant in the same manner as if the action had been brought by
and in the name of the deceased. 
SEC. 4261. In actions against executors
and administrators and against trustees and others sued in their representative
character the defendants may set off demands belonging to their testators or
intestates or those whom they represent, in the same manner as the persons
so represented would have been entitled to set off the same in an action· 
against them. 
SEC. 4262. If the amount of a set-off, duly es­
tablished, be equal to the plaintiff's debt or demand judgment shall be entered
that the plaintiff take nothing by his action; if it be less than the plaintiff's
debt or demand the plaintiff shall ham judgment for the residue only. 
SEC. 4263. If there be found a balance due
from the plaintiff in the action to the defendant judgment shall be rendered
for the defendant to the amount thereof; but no such judgment shall be ren­
dered against the plaintiff for any balance due from any other person. 
SEC. 4264. In actions in courts of record a set­
off claimed by the defendant shall be pleaded as a counter-claim and regulated
by the rules of pleading and practice applicable to counter-claims. When a
counter-claim is upon a cause of action derived by assignment a set-off of a
demand against the assignor, and a set-off which in any case may be made to
a counter-claim, shall be pleaded, by reply, as a defense to the counter-claim. 
SEC. 4265. The payment or tender of payment of
the whole sum due on any contract for the payment of money, although made 
after the money has become due and payable, may be pleaded to an action
subsequently brought in like manner and with the like .effect as if such tender
or payment had been made at the time prescribed in the contract. 
SEC. 4266. A tender also mav be made after an action
is brought on such contract of the whole sum then due thereon, with the legal
costs of suit incurred up to the time, at anv time before the action is called for
trial. It may be made to the plaintiff or his attorney, and if not accepted the
defendant may plead the same by answer or supplemental answer, in like man­
ner as if it had been made before the commencement of the action, bringing
into court the money so tendered for costs as well as for debt or damages. 
SEC. 4267. If such tender
be accepted the plaintiff or his attorney shall, at the request of the defendant, 
sign a stipulation of discontinuance of the action for such reason and shall de­
liver it to the defendant; and also a certificate or notice thereof to the officer
who has any process against the defendant, if requested; and if any further
costs shall be incurred for any service made by the officer after tender accepted
and before he receives notice thereof the defendant shall pay the same to the
officer or the tender shall be in valid. 
SEC. 4268. A tender may also be made in all
cases of involuntary trespass before action is commenced; and when in the 
opinion of the court or jury a sufficient amount was tendered to the party in­
jured, his agent or attorney for the trespass complained of judgment shall be 
entered against the plaintiff for costs; provided, that the defendant kept his
tender good by paying the money into court at the trial for the use of the
plaintiff.
SEC. 4269. In all actions to recover the possession or value of
logs, timber or lumber wrongfully cut upon the land of the plaintiff or to re­
cover damages for such trespass the highest market value of such logs, tim her
or lumber, in whatsoever place, shape or condition, manufactured. or unmanu­
factured, the same shall have been, at any time before the trial, while in tbe
possession of the trespasser or any purchaser from him with notice, shall be
found or awarded to the plaintiff, lf he succeed, except as in this section pro­
vided. The defendant in any such action may, at or before the time of the
service of his answer, serve on the plaintiff his affidavit that such cutting was
done by mistake and therewith an offer, in writing, to allow judgment to be
taken against him for the sum therein specified, with costs. If the plaintiff
accept the offer and give notice thereof in writing, within ten days, he may file
the summons, complaint and offer, with an atlidavit of service of the notice of
acceptance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly, which
shall be in full satisfaction of the matters alleged in the complaint. If notice
of acceptance be not so given the affidavit of the defendant shall be deemed
traversed. Upon the trial the jury shall find specially upon such issue and also 
the true value of such logs, timber or lumber when so cut, as well as their
highest market value aforesaid. If the jury find such cutting was by mistake
and the sum, exclusive of costs, for which judgment was so offered was not
less than the value of such logs, timber or lumber when cut, with interest from
that time to the time of such offer and ten per centum as damages upon the
combined sum, principal and interest, the plaintiff shall have judgment for the
amount of such offer only, less the costs and disbursements of the action since
the date of such offer, to be taxed and deducted in favor of the defendant. 
If the jury find such cutting was by mistake, but the sum, exclusive of costs, 
for which judgment so offered was less than such value and interest and ten
per centum damages combined, judgment shall be awarded the plaintiff on the
verdict for the value found at time of cutting, with interest from the time of
such cutting and ten per centum thereon aforesaid, besides the costs of the
action. If there be several defendants not alike liable either or any may serve
such affidavit and offer and have a separate trial as to him or them; provided,
that in all actions hereafter commenced when the defendant shall have in good
faith acquired a title to and entered upon the land under the same, believing
such title to be valid, and shall have cut the timber therefrom under such cir­
cumstances, then the plaintiff, if he shall recover, shall recover only the actual
damages sustained by reason of such cutting. The defendant in his answer
shall state the facts upon which he relies to establish such claim of title, and
the burden of proof shall be on the defendant. 
SEC. 4270. Whenever a legal no­
tice is required by law to be published in a newspaper in any county and no
public newspaper shall be printed therein, or when there shall be but one such
newspaper and the publisher thereof shall ref use to publish such notice, such
notice shall, unless otherwise specially provided, be deemed required by law to
be published in a newspaper printed' in an adjoining county, if there be any
such·; and proof by affidavit of the reason whl such publication was made in 
an adjoining county shall accompany the proo of publication or the order for
publication, when any is necessary, may be made or amended by the court or
Judge so as to designate a newspaper in an adjoining county, upon affidavit
showing the necessity therefor. Whenever publication is made in an adjoin­
ing county, under this section, copies of the notice shall be posted in at least
three public places in the first county. 
SEC. 4271. Whenever a legal notice shall be required or ordered to be published in
a }?articular newsraper in any county and such newsparer shall cease to be 
prmted and published in said county before the publication of such legal
notice shall be commenced, or when commenced shall so cease before such
publication is completed, the order for publication, when one is required in the
first instance, may be amended by order of the court or judge, on proof of the
fact by affidavit, so as to designate another newspaper, as may be necessary;
and if no order is required in the first instance such publication may be made
or completed in any other newspaper; and any time durin~ which such notice
shall be published in the fl rst newspaper shall be reckoned a part of the time
required for the publication thereof, proof of which may be made by affidavit
of any person acquainted with the facts. The second newspaper may be one
published in an adjoining county in the cases mentioned in the preceding  section. 
SEC. 4272. Whenever a legal notice sha ' i 
be required or ordered to be published in a particular newspaper and the name 
of such newspaper shall be changed before such publication is commenced or
before it shall be completed the publication shalJ be made or continued in the
newspaper under its new name with the same effect as if the name had not
been changed. The proof of the publication shall state the change of name
and specify the period of publication in such newspaper under ea.ch name. 
SEC. 4273. The time for publication of legal
notices shall be computed so as to exclude the first day of publication and in­ 
clude the day on which the act or event, of which notice is given, is to happen
or which completes the full period required for publication. 
SEC. 4274. If the publisher or
printer of a newspaper shall, after payment or tender of his legal fees there­
for, refuse or wilfully neglect to publish any legal notice required..in pursu­
ance of law or a lawful order of publication to be published in his newspapert
being able to make such publication, he shall forfeit twenty-five dollars, one­
half to the party prosecuting therefor. 
SEC. 4275. The fees for publishing a. legal no­
tice, when not otherwise specially prescribed by law, shall be not more than
sixty cents per folio for the first insertion and thirty-five cents per folio. for
each insertion after the first. 
SEC. 4276. The six preceding sections and the
term legal notice as used therein embrace every summons, order, citation, no­
tice of sale or other notice and every other advertisement of any description
required to be published by law or in p_ursuance of any law or of any order of 
any court. 
SEC. 4276a. Any notice, advertisement, statement or publication required 
by law or the 'order of any court to be printed or published in any newspaper
may be printed and published in a newspaper printed on Sunday, and such
printing and publication shall be a lawful publication and a full compliance
with the order of the court or officer orderrng such publication, the same to
all intents and purposes as though the same had been printed and published
in a newspaper printed on a secular dav ; and any such notice, advertisement,
statement or publication that may, by law or the order of any court, be re­
quired to be published for any given number of weeks may be published on
any day in each week of such term, and if so published as n;iany weeks and u 
many times in each week as may be required by such law or order, the same
shall be as lawful a publication thereof and as full a compliance with the order
of such court or officer as if the same had been printed and published on the
same day of each such week.
SEC. 4277. When the violation of a right ad­
mits of both a civil and criminal remedy the right to prosecute the one is not
merged in the other 
SEC. 4278. No person shall serve 
or execute any civil process from midnight preceding to midnight following
the first day of the week; and any such service shall be void; and any person
serving or executing any such process shall 'be liable in da.mages to the party
aggrieved in like manner and to the same extent as if he had not had any suoh 
process.
SEC. 4279. Whenever an execution or other
final process shall be issued against the property of any person who habitually
observes the seventh day of the week, instead of the first, as a day of rest the
offieer to whom such process shall be directed shall not levy upon or sell any
property of any such person on the seventh day of the week; provided, that
said person shall deliver to such officer an affidavit in writing, setting forth
the fact that he habitually keeps and observes the seventh cfa.y of the week
instead of the first, as a day of rest, at any time before such.levy or at least
two days before such sale, as the case may be; and such sale may, at the time
appointed therefor, be adjourned to any day within the life of the execution
or such execution may be renewed as in other cases. 
SEC. 4280. 
When a trustee of any express trust shall have been duly appointed in any
other state, territory or country, either as an original or substitute trustee, and
no trustee shall have been appointed in this state upon that pa.rt of the trust
estate situate in this state, such foreign trustee may have recorded in the office
of any register of deeds of any county in which any part of such trust estate 
may be situated his original appointment or a copy thereof duly authenticated,
as required to make the same receivable in evidence, and thereafter may exer­
cise any powers over each trust estate, including sales and conveyances and
assignments thereof or of any part thereof; and may prosecute or defend any
action or proceeding relating thereto and have all the rights, remedies and de­ 
fenses in regard to the property, real and personal, and interests, legal and equi­
table, and to collect any demands of such estate which such a trustee could
have if he were so appointed within and pursuant to the laws of this state.
SEC. 4281.
When a guardian shall have been duly appointed in any other state, territory 
or country for any person a resident thereof at the time of such appointment
and no guardian for such person shall have been appointed in this state, such
foreign guardian, upon filing his original appointment or a copy thereof duly
authenticated, so as to make the same receivable in evidence in any oounty 
court in the state, may thereafter exercise any powers over the estate of suoh
ward, including sales and assignments of the same or any part thereof, and
may prosecute or defend any action or proceeding relating thereto, and have
all the rights, remedies and defenses in regard to the property, real and per­
sonal, and interests, legal and equitable, and to collect any demands of such
estate or person which a guardian duly appointed by any county court of this
state could have or exercise in relation thereto.
SEC. 4:281a. Any person may limit
the amount of his liability as a surety upon any bond or other obligation of· 
any executor, administrator, guardian, trustee, reoeiver or assignee or upon
any bond or other obligation required by law or ordered by any oourt, judge,
mas.istrate or publio official for any purpose whatever. The amount of such
limited liability may be recited in the body of the bond or stated in the justi­
fication of the surety thereto; and in any "action brought upon suoh bond no
judgment shall be recovered against such surety for any sum larger than the
amount of his liability stated as aforesaid, together with his pro rat& share of
the costs of said aotion. And in any such action a surety may deposit in oourt
the amount of his liability,stated as aforesaid, whereupon he shall bedisobarged
and released from any further liability under such bond. 
SEC. 4281b. The surety or the representative of
any surety upon the bond of any trustee, oommittee, guardian, assignee, re­ 
ceiver, executor, administrator or other fiduciary may apply, by petition, to
the court wherein said bond is direoted to be filed or whioh may have juris­
diction of snob fiduciary J?r&ying to be relieved from further liability as such
surety for the acts or omissions of such fiduciary which may occur after the
date of the order relieving such surety, to be granted as herein provided for,
and to require such fiduciary to show cause why he should not account and
said surety be relieved from further liability as aforesaid and said principal
be required to give a new bond; and thereupon said oourt shall issue an order,
returnable at such time and place and to be served in suoh manner as it shall
direct, and may restrain such fiduciary, in the meantime, from acting except
in snob manner as it may direct to preserve the trust estate; and upon the re­ 
turn of such order to show cause, if the principal in the bond account in due
form of law and file a new bond duly approved, then said court. must make
an order releasing said surety from liability upon the bond for any subsequent
act or default of the principal; and in default of said principal thus account­
ing and filing such new bond said court shall make an order directing such
fiduciary to account within thirty days; and if the trust fund or estate shall
be found or made good and paid over or properly secured such surety shall be
discharged from any and all further liability as such, upon the principal filing 
a. new bond duly approved, for the subsequent acts or omissions of the fidu­
ciary after the date of such surety being so relieved or discharged and discharg­
ing such fiduciary duty.
SEC. 4282. Every insolvent debtor may be dis­
charged from his debts in the manner presoribed ln, and upon compliance with,
the provisions of this ohapter. 
SEC. 4283. Such insolvent debtor shall peti­
tion the circuit court of the county in which he resides or the presiding judge 
thereof, praying to be discharged, in pursua.noe of the provisions of this ohap­
ter, and shall annex to and deliver with his petition to suoh oourt or judge, to
whom it shall be presented, a schedule oontaining: 
1. A full and true account of all his oreditors;
2. The place of residence of each creditor, if known to such insolvent, and 
if not known, the fact to be stated;
8. The sum owing to each oreditor and the nature of each demand, whether 
arising on written security, on account or otherwise;
4. The true canse and consideration of such indebtedness, in each case, and 
the place where such indebtedness accrued;
5. A statement of any existing judgment, mortgage· or collateral or other 
security for the payment of any such debt;
6. A full and true inventory of all the estate, both real and personal, and of 
all ohoses in action, debts due and moneys on hand of such insolvent; of the
incumbrances existing thereon and of all the books, vouchers and securities
relating thereto. 
SEC. 4284. An affidavit in the fol­
lowing form shall be annexed to such petition and schedule and shall be sworn
to and subscribed by the insolven-t in the presence of such judge, who shall
certify the same: 
I, -- --, do swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that the account of my 
creditors and the inventory of my estate, which are annexed to my petition
and herewith delivered, are in all respects just and true, and that I have not,
at any time or in any manner whatsoever, disposed of or made over any part 
al my estate fo? the future benefit of myself or my family or in order to de­
fraud any of my creditors; and that I have in no instance created or acknowl­
edged a debtor for a greater sum than I honestly or truly owed, and that I have
not paid, secured to be paid or in any way compounded with any of my ored ..
itors with a view fraudulently to obtain the prayer of my petition. 
SEC. 4285. Upon the filing with
such court or delivery to such judge of such petition, sehednle and affidavit
such court or judge shall make an order requiring all creditors of such insolv­
ent to show oanse, if any they have, why an assignment of the insolvent's estate
should not be made and he be discharged. from his debts. If such application is'
made to soch oonrt sueh order shall also fix a day in the same or next ensuing
term for the hearing thereof at the court-house in such county; and if made
to such judge such order shall fix a day for such hearing at such court-house
or at the chambers of such judge, designating the place thereof. 
SEC. 4286. Such order shall direct that no­
tice of its contents be published in a newspaper published at the seat of gov­
ernment of this state and in & newspaper published in the county in which the
application is made, if there be one, and if there be none in such county, then
in a newspaper published in an adjoining county, and that a copy of such no­
tice shall be served personally or by mail, at least twenty days before the day
of such hearing, on each creditor named or included in the petition of such in,
solvent, if such creditor's residence or postoffice address be known 
and if
one-fourth part in amount of the debts owing by such insolvent shall nave ac­
crued in any other state, territory or district or be due to creditors residing
there such order shall also designate a newspaper at the seat of government
of such state, territory or district in which such notice shall be pu blished, 
SEC. 4287. If all the creditors of such in sol v 
ent reside within this state the order shall direct such notice to be published
once in each week for six successive weeks; and if any of such creditors reside
out of this state the notice shall be directed to be published once each week
for ten successive weeks. 
SEC. Szcrrox 4288. On the day fixed in such order
or any subsequent day that the court or judge may appoint the proofs and al­
legations of the parties shall be heard by such court or judge; but before any 
other rrooeeding shall be had proof shall be made of the service and publica­
tion o the notices provided for in the preceding sections. 
SEC. 4289. Every creditor opposing
the discharge of an insolvent under this chapter may, at the time appointed for
the first hearing, demand of the court or judge that the cause of such insolvent
be heard and tried by a jury, and shall be entitled to an order to that effect,
upon filing- with such court or judge a specification in writing of the grounds
of his objection to such discharge; and in all cases ordered to be tried by a
jury, under the provisions of this section, such trial shall be had in the county
where such insolvent shall reside, subject to a change of the place of trial for
like causes and according to the provisions which govern in actions pending 
in the circuit court. 
SEC. 290. If such demand is made to such oourt
the jury shall be drawn in the same manner as in oivil cases from the jurors 
summoned and attending such court, who shall be sworn as prescribed m the
next section. 
SEC. 4291. If such demand is
made to such judge he shall name eighteen freeholders of such county, qualified
by law to serve as jurors, and issue a summons to the sheriff or any constable 
of the county commanding him to summon the persons so named to appear
before him at such oourt-house or at his chambers, designating them, at a day
fixed in suoh summons, not less than six nor more than twelve days from the
time of issuing the same, at which time and place twelve such persons shall be
drawn to serve as a jury in the same manner as juries in the circuit court are
drawn, who shall be sworn well and truly to hear, try and determine the valid­
ity of the objeotions so specified.
SEC. 4292~ Such jury, hav­
ing heard the proofs and allegations of the parties, shall determine the matter
submitted to them and for that purpose shall be kept together by some proper
officer, to be sworn as is usual in like cases in courts of record, until they
agree upon their verdict. Such verdict shall be recorded in such court or by
such judge and shall be conclusive in the premises, unless a new trial is awarded
as hereinafter directed.
SEC. 4293. There shall be 
but one hearing before a jury unless a retrial is granted as hereinafter pro­
vided, and if tliey cannot agree after being left together a reasonable time
they shall be discharged, and such court or judge shall decide the merits of
the application as if no jury had been called. 
SEC. 4294. At the hearing of any
such petition before a jury or otherwise the insolvent may be examined on
oath, at the instance of any creditor, touchin~ his estate or debts or any mat­
ter stated in his schedule, and may be required to state any change which may
have occurred in the situation of his property since the making of his schedule,
and particularly whether he has collected any debts or demands or made any
transfer of any part of his real or personal estate; and any such creditor may
contradict or impeach, by other competent evidence, any testimony given by 
such insolvent.
SEC. 4295. If it
shall appear on such examination or otherwise, by competent proof, that such 
insolvent has collected any debts or demands or made any transfer, absolute
or conditional, Qr otherwise, of any part of his real or personal property since
the making of the schedule annexed to his petition he shall be required to pay
forth.with to the clerk of such court or to such judge the full amount of all
debts and demands so by- him collected or received and the full value of all
property so by him transferred, except such part of the said debts and prop­
erty as shall satisfactorily appear to such court or judge to have been neoes­ 
sarily expended bv such insolvent for the support of himself or family; and
no discharge shall be granted to him under the provisions of this chapter un­
less such payment shal1 be made as above required, within thirty days there­ 
after, to the assignee of such insolvent. 
SEC. 4296. If it. shall satis­
factorily appear to such court or judge, in oases where no jury has been re­ 
quired or the jury have disagreed, that the insolvent is justly and truly indebted
to the creditors in the sums mentioned in his schedule and affidavit, that such
insolvent has honestly and fairly given a true account of his estate and has in
all things conformed to the matters required of him in this chapter, such court
or judge shall direct an assignment of all snob insolvent's estate in possession,
reversion or remainder, except such property as may be by law exempt from
execution, to some person appointed by the court or judge a.s assignee, and
such assignment shall be approved by it or him as to its form and manner of
execution. The assignment shall be recorded in the office of the register of
deeds of such county and of every other county in which any real estate con­
veyed thereby is situated. 
SEC. 4:297. When any of the matters in
the last section required to be established previous to granting an order of as­
signment shall have been submitted to a jury and shall have been found in
favor of the insolvent such court or judge shall direct an assignment accord­
ingly of all such insolvent's estate, as mentioned in the preceding section; and
the jury may, by their verdict, increase or diminish the amount of any debt
set forth by such insolvent in his schedule as they shall find the fact to be. 
SEC.  4:298. Such assignment
shall vest in the assignee all the interest of such insolvent, at the time of exe­
cuting the same, in any estate or property, real or personal, whether such
interest be legal or equitable; but no contingent interest shall pass to the as­ 
signee by virtue of such assignment unless the same shall become vested within
three years after the making thereof, and in case of its becoming so vested it
shall pass to the assignee in the same manner as it would have vested in such
insolvent if no assignment had been made by him.
SEC. 4209. Upon such insolvent's produc­
ing to and filing with such court or judge a certificate of such assignee, exe­
cuted in the presence of the judge of such court, that such assignment has been 
executed and delivered to him, a copy whereof shall be annexed to such cer­
tificate, and that such insolvent has delivered to such assignee all his estate so
directed to be assigned and all books, vouchers and securities relating to the
same, and a certificate of the register of deeds of such county and of each
county in which any real estate conveyed by such assignment is situated, that
such assignment has been duly recorded in his office, such court or judge shall
grant to such insolvent a discharge from his debts, which shall have the effect
declared in this chapter. 
SEC. 4300. The petition, schedule, affidavit and all the tes­
timony taken, orders, papers and other proceedings in the case shall be filed in 
the office of the clerk of such circuit court, who shall thereupon enter, in the
judgment docket of said court, against said insolvent as defendant a judgment
m favor of each of his creditors as plaintiff for the several sums respectively
appearing as shown to be due to them by such schedule and proceedings, which
judgments shall be liens only upon the property conveyed by such assignment,
and shall also enter a discharge thereof upon such docket, by order of the court, 
. which shall discharge such insolvent from personal liability only in respect to
the debts for which snob judgments were rendered. The state tax, upon filing
all such papers and entering all such judgments, shall be one dollar; and the
clerk's fees for filing and entering all suoh papers and proceedings, for record­
ing in connection therewith, for docketing and discharging ·an such judgments
and for all other things necessarily done in such proceedmg, shall be not less
than eight dollars nor more than twenty dollars, to be fixed by the circuit .
judge. This section shall not apply to the county of Milwaukee or any other
county where by law any special provision for the payment of fees or salary -
to the clerk of the circuit court thereof has heretofore been fixed.
SEC. 4301. In any action which may be brought
against such insolvent a discharge granted pursuant to this chapter may be
pleaded and shall constitute a bar to the recovery against him for or on ac­
count of any indebtedness or liability of his included in said schedule or found
due in such proceedings. 
SEC. 4302. Every discharge granted to
an insolvent under this chapter shall be voidable in each of the following
cases: 
1. If such insolvent shall wilfully have sworn falsely in his affidavit annexed
to his petition or upon his examination in relation to any material fact con­
cerning his estate or his debts, or to any other material fact; 
2. If after the presentation of his petition he shall sell or in any way trans­
fer or assign any of his property or collect any debts due him and shall not
give a just and true account thereof on the hearing of his application, and shall 
not also pay or secure the payment of the money so collected or the value of
the property so assigned, as bereinbefore directed; 
3. If be shall secrete any part of his estate or any books or writings relative
thereto, with intent to defraud his creditors; 
4. If he shall fraudulently conceal the names of any of his creditors or the
amount of any sum due to any of them; 
5. If he shall pay or consent to the payment of any portion of the debt or
demand of any of bis creditors or shall grant or consent to the granting of
any gift or reward to any such creditor upon any express or implied contract
or trust that the creditor so paid or rewarded should abstain or desist from
opposing the discharge of such insolvent; 
6. If he shall be guilty of any fraud whatever, oontrary to the true intent
of this chapter. 
SEC. 4303. Within one year after the docketing of the sev­
eral judgments against the insolvent any creditor may apply, upon affidavit
or other proof, to such circuit court, upon notice to such msolvent, for a new
tria.l of the application for a discharge. Such insolvent may resist such ap­
plication by affidavits and other proofs and if, upon the hearing of the appli­
cation, such court shall be satisfied that any grounds for rendering snob
discharge voidable, mentioned in the preceding section and which have been
specified in such application for a new trial, exist, it shall make an order vacat­ 
ing such discharge and directing a new trial of such insolvent's ap£lioation for
a discharge. Such new trial shall be had as to the grounds specified in such
application only in the same manner as hereinbefore provided for a trial upon
the original application of the insolvent; and if the verdict of the jury or
finding of the court shall be in favor of the creditor so applying the discharge
shall be vacated, ·otherwise it shall be final and conclusive.
SEC. 4304. The assignee in
such assignment shall forth with, under the orders of such court or judge, con­
vert the property assigned into money and shall pay all taxes assessed upon
the property assigned which remain unpaid, and distribute the residue ratably,
and without preference, among the several creditors of such insolvent, and
such court or judge may also make all necessa.rv orders for the payment, out
of the proceeds of such assigned property, of all fees and expenses, including
compensation to such assignee for his services, accruing on such application
prior to such distribution. 
SEC. 4305. Appeals may be taken to the supreme court by
such insolvent from any order denying or vacating his discharge or by any
creditor opposing such discharge from the order granting it, or from the order
denying an application for a new trial, or an order in favor of the insolvent
upon a new trial of the application for a discharge; which appeals shall be 
taken and bills of exception when necessary shall be settled therein as in or­
dinary appeals in civil aotions.
SEC. 4306. For publishing the notices
required by this chapter the same fees per folio shall be allowed as for pub­ 
lisliing other legal notices; and a. notice published by a general heading, stat­
ing that the insolvent, naming him, will apply to such court or judge for a
discharge from his debts, at the time and place, stating them, fixed by the
order tlierefor, shall be a valid publication. 
SEC. 4307. Every person
confined in jail on an execution issued on a judgment recovered in an action
founded on a tort shall be discharged therefrom at the end of ten days from
his first confinement upon the conditions hereinafter specified
SEC. 4308. Such person shall cause notice to be
given to the plaintiff in the action, his agent or attorney, in writing, that
at a time and place specified in such notice he will apply to the judge of the
circuit court, county judge or court commissioner of the county in which he 
is so confined for the purpose of obtaining a discharge from his imprisoment. 
SEC. 4309. Such notice shall be served by de­
livering a copy thereof to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney twenty-four hours
before the time for the hearing of such application, if he lives within twenty
miles of the place designated for the hearing; and for every additional twenty
miles or part thereof tbat he resides from such place twenty-four hours shall
be added to the time of such service
SEC. 4310. At the time and place speci­
fied in such notice such person shall be taken, under the custody of the jailer
or the sheriff or his de1uty, before such circuit judge, county judge or court
commissioner, who shal examine the prisoner on his oath concernin~ his estate
and effects and the disposal thereof and his ability to pay the judgment for
which he is committed; and who shall also hear any other legal and pertinent
evidence that may be produced by the debtor or the creditor.
SEC. 4311. The plaintiff in the action may, upon
such examination, propose to the prisoner any interrogatories pertinent to the
inquiry and they shall, if required by the creditor, be proposed and answered
in writing and the answers shall be signed and sworn to by the prisoner; and
the plaintiff in the action may have a copy of the interro~tories and answers
certified by the officer before whom such examination is had, upon paying
therefor the legal fees. 
SEC. 4312. If upon such examination such officer
shall be satisfied that the prisoner is entitled to his discharge he shall administer 
to him the following oath:
I, -- --, do solemnly swear that I ha.ve not any estate, real or personal, 
to the amount of twenty dollars, except such as is by law exempt from being
taken on execution, an~ that I have not an:y other estate, nor conveyed or con­ 
cealed or in any way disposed of any portion of my estate, real or personal,
with design to secure the same to my use or to defraud my creditors. So help 
me God. 
SEC. 4313. After administering the oath the
officer before whom such examination shall be held shall make a certificate
under his hand as follows: 
To the sheriff or jailer of the countv of --: I do hereby certify that
-- --, confined in your jail upon an"' execution at the suit of -- --, is 
entitled to be discharged from imprisonment, if he be imprisoned for no other
cause. 
The sheriff or jailer, upon receiving such certificate, shall forthwith discharge
the prisoner, if he be imprisoned for no other cause. 
SEC. 4314. If upon such exam­
ination aforesaid the prisoner be not discharged he shall be entitled to apply
for his discharge at the end of every succeeding ten days, in the same manner
as above provided, and the same proceeding shall thereupon be had. 
SEC. 4315. The prisoner, after being so dis­
charged, shall be forever exempt from arrest or imprisonment for the same debt
unless he shall be convicted for having wilfully sworn falsely upon his exami­
nation aforesaid or in taking the oath before prescribed. 
SEC. SEOTioN 4316. The judgment against any
prisoner who is discharged as aforesaid shall remain in full force against any
estate which may then or at any time afterwards belon~ to him; and the
plaintiff in the action ma.r, take out a. new execution against the goods and
estate of the prisoner in hke manner as if he had never been committed on the
execution. 
SEC. 4317. In case such prisoner shall be unable
to pay in whole or in part the fees of such county judge or court commissioner
in such proceedings they shall, nevertheless, proceed without charge to him 
therefor. 
SEC. 4:818. If the debtor shall satisfy the
execution he shall not be entitled to his discharge until he has paid all the
charges for his support in prison, in addition to the sum due on the execution,
and the costs and charges thereon. 
SEC. 4319. The plaintiff in the action may;
at any time, order the prisoner to be discharged, and he shall not thereafter 
be liable to imprisonment for the same cause. 
SEC. 4820. 
Whenever a person is committed to jail on execution issued on a judgment re­
covered in a civil action the creditor, his agent or attorney shall aavance to
the jailer, within twenty-four hours after such commitment, sufficient money
to pay for the support of said prisoner during the time for which he may oe
imprisoned; and m case the money shall not be so advanced or, if during the
time the prisoner may be in confinement, the money shall be expended in the
support of such prisoner, the jailer shall forthwith discharge such prisoner from
custody, and such discharge shall have the same effect as a discharge by order
of the court. 
SEC. 4321. A space of ground in a square, the center of
each of whose sides shall be one mile distant from the jaif, is declared as the
liberties of the jail of each county of the state. The sheriff of each county,
where such liberties have not been heretofore so designated, shall, at the ex­
pense of the county, designate by visible and permanent marks the extent and
limits of such liberties.
SEC. 4322. Every person who shall be in
the custody of the sheriff of any countY. by virtue of an order of arrest, or
writ of ne exeat or surrender by his bad upon an order of arrest, execution
(except when issued in a civil action for the recovery of a forfeiture or pen­
alty), or attachment in proceedings for contempts, not criminal, issued for non­
payment of costs or of any sum of money ordered to be paid in a oi vii action
shall be entitled to be admitted to such jail liberties upon executing the bond
prescribed in the next section. 
SEC. 4:323. Such bond shall be executed by the
prisoner and one or more sureties, to be approved by the sheriff, in a sum not
Iess than double the amount of the sum in which the sheriff was required to 
bold the defendant to bail, or double the amount directed to be collected by
the execution, or double the amount of the costs or sum of money ordered to
be paid, as the case may be, and shall be conditioned that such defendant shall
remain a true and faithful prisoner and shall not escape or go without the
limits of such jail liberties until discharged by due course of law. Every such
bond shall be held for the indemnity of the sheriff taking the same and of the
party at whose suit or for whose benefit suoh prisoner is confined. 
SEC. 4324. If a sheriff who shall
have taken any such bond shall discover that a.ny surety to such bond is in­ 
sufficient he may commit the prisoner, who executed the same, to olose con­
finement in such jail until other good and sufficient sureties shall be substituted. 
SEC. 4825. The sureties in any such bond
may surrender their principal at any time before judgment shall be rendered
against them thereon by taking such principal and delivering him to the keeper
.of the jail, when upon the written requirement of such sureties he shall indorse
upon such bond an acknowledgment of the surrender of the principal and shall
also, if required, give suoh sureties a. oertificate acknowledging such surrender; 
but such surrender shall not exonerate such sureties from any liability incurred
by them previous to such surrender. 
SEC. 4326. The going at large of any prisoner
who shall have executed such bond or of any prisoner who would be entitled
to the liberties of any jail, upon executing such bond, within the limits of the
liberties of the jail of the county in which he shall be in custody, shall not be
deemed an escape of such prisoner; but in case any such prisoner shall go at
large without the jail liberties of such county, without the assent of the party
at whose suit such prisoner shall be in custody, the same shall be deemed an
escape and forfeiture of the bond so executed; and the sheriff in whose cus­
tody such prisoner shall have been shall have tbe same authority to pursue
and retake such prisoner as if such escape had been made from the jail. 
SEC. 4327. In every suit brought by a sheriff on
such bond the defendants may plead a voluntary return of the prisoner to the
jail from which he escaped, or the liberties thereof, or the recapture of such 
[-risoner by the sheriff from whose custody he escaped before the commence­
ment of such suit, and may give evidence thereof in mitigation of the dam­
ages or judgment claimed, but upon such answer of a voluntary return judgment
shall be rendered against the defendant in the action for twenty-five dollars
for each day or part of day such defendant was outside of such liberties, to­
gether with the costs of the action; and such defendants shall be entitled to 
make such or any other defense to such suit which might be made by such
sheriff to an action against him for such escape. 
SEC. 4328. But if an action
shall have been brought against such sheriff for such escape and due notice
thereof shall have been given to the prisoner and his sureties, who executed
such bond, the judgment against such sheriff shall be conclusive evidence of
his right to recover against such prisoner and his sureties as to all matters
which were or might have been controverted in the action against the sheriff.
SEC. 4329. In every suit brought by a sheriff on such
bond if it shall appear to the court that Judgment has been rendered against
such sheriff for the escape of the prisoner and that due notice of the pendenoy
of the action against the sheriff was given to the prisoner and his sureties, to
enable them to defend the same, such court shall render judgment in the
suit upon such bond at any term after the summons is served, upon the com­
plaint being filed and twenty days' notice of the application for such judgment
has been given to the defendants in such action: 
SEC. 4330. If it shall appear, on the hearing of
such motion, that the defendants have any meritorious cause of defense, wliich
was not controverted in the action against the sheriff and which by law could
not have been so controverted, the court shall enter judgment as provided in
the preceding section and suspend proceedings thereon until a trial in such
action be had; but such judgment shall remain as a security for the sheriff.
If such defense be established the court shall vacate such judgment and render
judgment as in other oases
SEC. 4331. In every action brought by a sheriff on
such bond the reoovery of a judgment against him for the escape of the pris­
oner shall be evidence of the damages sustained by him in the same manner as
if such judgment had been collected; and such sheriff shall be entitled to re­
cover the costs and his reasonable expenses in defending the suit against him
as part of his damages. 
SEC. 4332. If any such bond shall be forfeited
the party at whose suit the person executing the same shall have been con­
fined or, in case of his death, the executor or administrator of such party shall
be entitled to an assignment thereof, which shall be made by the sheriff taking
the same, or in case of a vacancy in his office by his under-sheriff.
SEC. 4333. The party to whom such assign­
ment shall have been made may maintain an action on such bond, as assignee
of. the sheriff taking the same, in the same cases in which such action might be­
maintained by such sheriff, and shall recover damages for breaches of the con­
dition of such bond as follows: 
_ 1. If the prisoner escaping was confined by virtue of an execution or by
virtue of an attachment for non-payment of costs or of any sum of money
ordered to be paid by a court or judge the measure of the plaintiff's damages
shall be the amount directed to be levied by such execution or attachment,
with interest thereon to the time of such recovery; 
2. If the prisoner was confined by virtue of an order of arrest or writ of ne
exeat, or upon a surrender by his bail upon an order of arrest, made before or
after judgment rendered against him, the plaintiff shall recover only the act­
ual damages sustained by him.
SEC. 4334. The acceptance of an assignment
of any such bond shall be a bar to any action by or on behalf of the party re­
ceiving such assignment against the sheriff or other officer making the same
for a.nl escape of the prisoner executing such bond, amounting to a breach
thereo.
SEC. 4335. In every action brought
by the assignee of such bond the defendants shall be entitled to plead a vol­
untary return of the prisoner to the liberties of the jail before the commence- 
ment of such action, in mitigation thereof, as provided in section 4327; and to
make any defense which they would be entitled to make if such action had
been brought in the name and for the benefit of the sheriff to whom suoh bond
was executed. 
SEC. 4836. In case the party at
whose suit any person shall have been confined to the liberties of a jail shall ·
refuse or neglect to take an assignment of the bond executed by snob person, 
as hereinbefore provided and shall prosecute any sheriff for the escape of such
person the oourt in whioh such action shall be pending shall, by order, stay all
the prooeedings upon the judgment against such sheriff until he shall have had
a reasonable time to prosecute the 'bond taken by him and to collect the
amount of any judgment he may recover thereon. But. this seotion shall not 
.authorize such stay of proceedings in any action where the judgment shall
have been recovered against JJ.DY sheriff for any escape committed with the 
.assent, aid or assistanoe of snob iheriff. 

SEC. 1. Guardians ad litem, to prosecute or defend an action or
special proceeding, may be appointed by the court or judge for infants, insane persona or
persons under guardianship, or otherwise incapable of prosecuting or def ending for them­
selves. Such infants or other persons may bring actions or institute special proceedings, sub­
ject to such orders as the court or judge may make for their protection. 
SEC. 2. No guardians ad litem need be appointed for an1 married
woman of the age of twenty-one years, but her husband shall be Joined with her m any ac­
tion or proceeding not concerning her separate property or business, or alleged antenuptial
debts. or not between herself and her husband- 
SEC. 8. No person except the general guardin.n shall be appointed
guardian ad litem of any infant or other person incapable of prosecuting for himself, if a
plaintiff, unless for good cause shown. Nor shall any person be so appointed who is not of
ability to pay to such infant or other person any damages which may be sustained by reason
of negligence or misconduct in the prosecution or defense of the action, or who is not fully
competent to understand and protect the rights of such infant or other person, or who has 
any interest or feeling adverse to his interests, or who is oonneoted in business with the at­
torney or counsel of the adverse party. 
SEC. 4. No person, unless he be an attorney or other officer of the
-eourt, shall be appointed suoh guardian ad litem if such infant or other person be a defend­
ant. 

SEC. Service of notice of appearance or retainer generally, hr. an attorney for
the defendant, shall in all oases be deemed an appearance. And the plaintiff, on filing such
notice at any time thereafter, may have the appearance of the defendant entered as of the
time when such notice was served. 

SEC. 1. Any demurrer which shall have been regularly noticed
for argument at any general or special term, whether in the county in which the action is 
pending or in any other county of the circuit in which the term is by law a special term for
the county in which the action is pending, may be brought on for argument at any time be­ 
fore the jury is called for such term, or on any motion day, and shall have precedence of all 
other business except motions relating to actions for trial by jury at such term. 
SEC. 2. On the argument of demurrers the party demurring shall, if required by the court,
furnish the court a copy of so much of the pleadings as shall be necessary to be examined, 
and a short, written statement of the grounds relied upon in support of the demurrer, wit.h
the points numbered consecutively, with appropriate reference to the authorities cited. Cir­
cuit court rule 16. 
SEC. All the pleadings and other papers f rrany ao­
tion. and copies thereof, shall be fairly and legibly written or printed, and shall have indorsed
thereon the title of the action and character of the paper, and, if not so written or printed
and indorsed, 'the clerk shall refuse to file the same, and the opposite party need not receive
it; or. if filed, the same may be stricken out. The clerk shall file all papers in every action
or proceeding, with the date of filing indorsed thereon. 
SEC. Whenever an order shall be obtained tor a fur­
ther account or bill of particulars under sec. 2672 of the revised statutes, such order may
contain such modification of the time for service of answer, demurrer or reply aR the grant­
ing of the order shall, in the opinion of the judge, render necessary.
SEC. The sheriff to whom an order of arrest has been delivered to be exe­
cuted shall return to the plaintiff's attorney the affidavit on which the order of arrest was
granted, with such order, within ten days after the arrest; and the plaintiff or attorney by 
• whom the order of arrest is subscribed shall also file with the clerk suoh affidavit and order.
with the sheriff's return indorsed, within five days after the same shall have been returned 
to him. 
SEC. 2. .After calling the calendar the court shall attend to ~ parte
business and shall hear all motions, demurrers and interlocutory proceedings, giving prece­
dence to such as relate to actions for trial by jury, until the opening of the court in the
afternoon of the first day. 
SEC. 8. Every Saturday, on the day next preceding any legal holiday or
town-meeting day, after the jury are discharged for such day, and every Monday, and the next
day after any legal holiday and town-meeting day, until the opening of the court in the after­
noon of such days, shall be motion days. But by consent of parties motions may be heard
at any time in the discretion of the court. On motion days when no motions are to be heard,
the court may proceed with the issues of law. · 
SEC. 4. At the
opening of the court on the morning of each day so much time as shall be necessary, not ex­
ceeding one hour. shall be devoted to the hearing of such motions as pertain to actions on
the calendar for trial by jury and to ex parte business. Applications for continuances will
only be heard in the morning hour and before the cause i8 placed on the day calendar except
for good cause shown. 
SEC. 9. All applications to the court for orders
or judgments, whether a parte or otherwise, shall be publicly announced by the attorney
making the application, and the clerk shall enter a brief statement thereof in his minute
book, with the action of the court thereon, and no such order shall be operative unless such
statement shall be then and there so entered.·
SEC. 1. In all cases when a motion shall be granted
on payment of costs or on the performance of any condition or doing any act or when the
order shall require such payment or performance or doing such act the party whose duty it
shall be to comply therewith shall do so within twenty days from the time of the service of
notice of such order, unless a different time is prescribed in such order. In case costs to be
taxed are to be paid the same shall be paid within fifteen days after the costs shall have been
taxed on notice, unless a different time is prescribed by the order. 
SEC. 2. Where by the terms of any order an act is directed to be performed instanter it
shall be performed before the expiration of the day next ensuing the making of such order. 
SEC. 8. This rule shall be regarded as subordinate to any other of these rules which pre­
scribes time, terms or conditions for making any payment, doin~ any act or compliance with
any conditions in reference to any matter or thing specified m such other rule. 
SEC. 1. All motions shall be brought to
hearing before the court or a judge on a notice or order to show cause. Notice of the mo­
tion shall be served on the attorney of the adverse party at least eight days before the same
shall be heard. The court or judge may, by order to show cause, prescribe a shorter time.
Such notice of motion or order to show cause shall state briefly the nature of the order or
relief applied for, and if the notice of motion or order to show cause be for irregularity i*
shall specify particularly the irregularity complained of. 
SEC. 2. Copies of all records, affidavits and other
papers upon which a motion or order to show cause is founded, except such as have been
previously filed or served in the same action or proceeding, shall be served with the notice
thereof or the order to show cause and shall be plainly referred to therein. Papers already
fi.ed or served shall be referred to as papers, documents, etc., theretofore filed or served in 
the action. 
SEC. 8. If the Adverse farty shall not appear to oppose the court or
judge, on proof of due service of the notice o motion or order to show cause and papers re~
quired to be served, may grant the order or relief moved for; and if the party making the
motion or procuring the order to show cause shall not appear to prosecute the same such
court or judge may dismiss or deny it. 
SEC. 4. Either party may, in vacation, ftle with the clerk a
motion for an order to be applied for at the next term and serve a copy thereof on the ad­
verse party or his attorney at least ten days before the time specified for making such appli­
cation. After the motion has been so flied and served either party may proceed to take
depositions, on notice, to be read and used on the hearing of such motion. 
Ex parte affidavits; depositions. SEa o. Ex parte affidavits may be filed and read in
support of a motion or order; but no deposition shall be used on such motion unless taken
on notice to the opposite party, in the manner provided for by statute, unless waived by the
adverse party or his attorney. . 
Papers to be referred to. 8Ea 6. All orders of the court or a. Judge, whether granted 
ex parte, by default or otherwise, shall briefly refer to all the records, petitions, affidavits and
other papers read or used by either party upon the application for the order. 
SEC. Every pleading, motion, affidavit, case or bill of exceptions,
when exceeding five folios in length, shall have each folio marked in the margin with dis­
tinct, consecutive numbers; and all copies, either for the parties or the court, shall in like
manner be numbered or marked in the margin, so as to conform to the original draft or entry,
and to each other, and any copy served which shall not be so numbered and marked may be 
returned within a reasonable time for that reason
SEC. Whenever it shall be necessary in any petition or
affidavit to swear to the advice of counsel parties shall, in addition to what has usually been 

required or stated, swear that he has fully and fairly stated the case to his counsel and shall
give the name and place of residence of such counsel. Circuit court rule 18. 
SEC. 1. Motions for continuance (except from day to day or to some day
during the term) shall be made by the third day of the term, unless the cause alleged therefor
occur or be discovered thereafter. No action noticed for trial shall be continued without
theooosent of the parties or cause shown, and the facts upon which such motions are founded.
unless they appear of record, shall be stated at length by affidavit made by the party or
some person who knows the facts. 
SEC. 2. Such affidavit shall state the date of the issue, that the party apply­
ing to continue the action has a valid cause of action or defense, in whole or in part; and. if
in part only, he shall specify particularly to what part and that the case in such action has
been fully and fairly stated to his -counsel, giving the name and place of residence of such
counsel; and that, upon the statement thus made, he is advised by his said counsel that he
has a valid and substantial cause of action or defense to the action in whole or in part. Affl·
davits for continuance shall show that the party applying to continue the action has used
due diligence to prepare for trial, and the nature and kind of the diligence used, and shall state
the name of the absent witness and his residence, if known, or tl'ie nature of any document­
ary evidence wanted, and where the same can be found; that no other evidence is at hand,
or witness or witnesses are in attendance or known to him, whose testimony could have been
procured in time, upon whom the party can safel.y rely to prove the particular facts which
he expects and believes can be proved by such absent evidence, witness or witnesses, or to
maintain the issue in respect thereto on his part, and that the applicant is advised by his
said counsel and verily believes that he cannot safely go to trial without such evidence or
his or their testimony; that such witness or witnesses are not absent by his consent, con·
nivanoe or procurement; and such affidavit shall state the endeavors that have been used
for the purpose of procuring such testimony, and particularly the facts which the absent
evidenoe, witness or witnesses are expected to prove, with the ground of such expectation. 
SEC. 8. No continuance shall be granted for the term except upon payment of
the taxable costs of the term and $10 attorneys' fees. Costs on continuance shall be taxed
by the clerk immediately after the decision of the application, without notice of taxation,
and shall be paid ineumter; but the court may allow a longer time for such payment, not ex­
tending beyond the time when the action will be reached in its order for trial; and in such
case the party shall also pay in addition the fees for actual attendance of the witnesses of the
op~ite party for such extended time, if the court shall so direct. 
SEC. 4. If any application for a continuance be made by a defendant
in an action on contract. who shall state in his affidavit that he has a valid defense to some
particular part only of the plaintiff's cause of action or demand, which he desires time to ob­
tain testimony to establish, if the plaintiff shall by consent in open court, to be entered on
the minutes, withdraw, waive or abandon the same, then such application shall be denied. 
SEC. 5. When it shall appear t-o the court that the absent witnesses
or desired testimony with reasonable diligence may be procured before the close of the term,
the court may grant a continuance of the action from day to day or to some certain day
in the term, upon the payment of such costs as it may deem just and proper. Circuit court
rule 20. 
SEC. 5. In all actions or special proceedings pending
on appeal, the date of filing the return shall be deemed the date of the issue, whether of law
or of fact. Special proceedings pending on appeal shall be noticed for trial. and notes of
issue filed therein in like manner as in actions. 
SEC. 2. In all special proceedings pending on appeal, except as other­
wise specially provided by law, the court may direct an issue of fact to be made up between
the parties by complaint and answer, presenting in a clear and succinct manner the claims
of the parties in respect to disputed facts material to the determination of the appeal, and
such issue shall be tried by the court, or by the jury, as the court shall prescribe in the order 
directing it.
SEC. 5. Attorneys and guardians ad litem in the court below 
shall be deemed attorneys and guardians ad litem of the same parties in the circuit court
until duly changed. 
SEC. 4. When a return to a writ of certiorari shall have
been made and filed with the clerk of the court from which the writ issued, the action
thereon shall be deemed at issue and may be brought to a hearing by either party, at any
term of the court, upon the usual notice of trial, and shall be placed on the calendar and dis­
posed of with the cases denominated issues of law. 
SEC. 5. All applications for rules to amend or perfect a return of any
appeal or to any writ of certiorari shall be made on or before the third day of the first term for
which the same is or may be noticed for trial, and shall distinctly and plainly point out the
defect or defects therein, and particularly specify the nature of the amendruent, addition or
correction required to such return. Cireuit court rule 30. 
SEC. 10. Applications for continuances will only be heard in the morning hour,
and before the cause is placed on the day calendar, except for good cause shown. 
SEC. 1. Except as provided by sec. 2846 of the reviled statutes and theee rulee 
110 action or proceeding shall be placed on the calendar. Certiorari, shall be considered cal·
endar causes. Actions for divorce in which no issue of fact or of law shall have been joined
shall be placed on the calendar in the class of issues of fact to be tried by the court. 
SEC. 2. All motions to correct the calendar or to strike causes therefrom shall be made by
the second day of the term and not thereafter. Circuit court rule 2. 
SEC. 7. No action will be allowed to go to the foot of the calendar
nor be set down for a particular day unless the court upon application 80 orders; and when
any action is 80 set down by order of court it shall have precedence of other oases not on 
trial 
SEC. 5. At the opening of the court in the afternoon of the first day of the
term the jury shall he called and the trial of all jury causes shall be proceeded with until all
are completed, without other interruption than such as is provided for by these rulea. 
SEC. 6. No more than the first six of the jury cases shall be called for trial upon the flrsi 
day of the term. 
SEC. 1. On the trial of actions only one counsel on each side shall examine or
cross-examine the same witness, and two counsel only on each side shall sum up to the jury,
unless the judge shall otherwise order. The party having the affirmative shall be entitled 
to the open mg and closing argument, and in the opening the points and authorities relied on
shall be stated. The waiver of argument by either party shall not preclude the adverse
party from making any argument which he would otherwise have been entitled to make.

SEC. 1. Whenever any matter in abatement
of any action is set up in the answer, which involves the finding of any fact, the court shall
direct that the same be found by a special verdict of a jury, unless a trial by jury be waived
as provided by law, or unless the issues of fact in the same action are such as are properly
triable by the court; and when there is any other issue of fact in the action, the same may,
in the discretion of the court. be submitted to the same jury at the same time; otherwise the
issue in abatement shall first be tried. 
SEC. 21. If in an action to recoveT possession of personal
property the same shall have been delivered to the plaintiff and he shall discontinue his ac­
tion, or the same be dismissed for want of prosecution, the value of such property, as well as
the defendant's damages for the caption and detention thereof, may be ascertained and as­
sessed by the court or by the jury called from the regular panel at any general term of the
court for the county. If he be nonsuited at the trial such value and damages may be asoer­
tained by the court or by a jury in the action, as the case may be. Judgment may be en­
tered on such finding or assessment as provided by law at the same or any general or special
term of the court for the county. 
SEC. 2. When the issues of fact are properly triable by the
court any question of fact involved ih the matter in abatement may be passed upon by the
court at the same time as the other issues of fact. 

SEC. 1. When a question of fa.ct other than upon the pleadings.
arising upon motion or otherwise, shall be referred for trial or report, the order of reference
shall state separately and plainly the questions so referred, and the trial and report shall be 
restricted to the matter so stated. 
SEC. 2. When any reference has been ordered either party may de­
liver to the referee a certified copy of the order of reference, and the referee shall thereupon
appoint a time and place for the trial, and give notice thereof to the parties respectively;
such time to be not less than ten nor more than thirty days after the delivery of the copy of
such order. unless the proceeding before the referee be ex parte or some other time be ap­
pointed by written stipulation of the parties, with the assent of the referee, or unless the
court shall otherwise order. In case the referee shall not so appoint a time for such trial or
the execution of such order, and proceed with the reference with due diligence, the court
may. on application of either party, appoint another referee in his stead. or make an order
requiring the referee to speed the proceedings before him, and to make his report therein.
and that he certify to the court, or the judge thereof, the reasons for any delay. 
SEC. 8. On a trial of the whole issue before a referee the plaintiff
may submit to a nonsuit or dismissal of his complaint at any time before the action has been
submitted for decision, or may be nonsuited, or his complaint be dismissed, in.like manner as
upon a trial before the court, and the referee shall report according to the fact, and judgment
may thereufon be perfected on application to the court. 
SEC. 4. The referee shall regulate an· proceedings in every trial or
hearing before him, and shall have authority to require the production of all books, papers,
writings, vouchers and other documents pertinent thereto. Subpcenas to compel the attend­
ance of witnesses before him may be issued out of and under the seal of the court in whioll
the action may be pending. 
SEC. 5. All parties aooounting before a referee shall bring in their respect­
ive accounts in the form of debtor and creditor, and such accounting shall be confined to the
matters so referred, and he shall state in his report, in all cases, what items were allowed and
what disallowed. 
SEC. 6. No judgment or order shall be entered on a referee's report,
nor shall any motion be heard to set aside, alter or modify the same, nor shall such report be
reviewed by the court until the ten days allowed for excepting thereto shall have expired. 
SEC. 8. If the other issues of fact in
the action be of such a nature that the court may direct a reference in pursuance of the pro­
visions of sec. 2864 of the revised statutes, the court may upon its own motion or upon the
application of either party order such reference, but no proceedings shall be had on such ref­
erence until the matter in abatement has been tried and found for the plaintiff. 

SEC. 3. 1 n any trial, any exception taken in the progress thereof
shall be accurately reported by the phonographic reporter in his notes, with all the facts and
occurrences upon which it is based: and when exceptions are so taken down they need not
be reduced to writing at the time, nor signed by the judge, or entered in his minutes, as au­ 
thorized by sec. 2869 of the revised statutes, but shall afterwards, at the request of the party
taking such exceptions, be written out in full by the reporter and filed with the clerk. When
exception shall be taken to the charge of the judge, or to comments by him to the jury upon
the law or the facts, such charge or comments shall be written out and filed with the clerk
before the last day of the term. All such exceptions, whether to matters occurring at the
trial or to the judge's charge- or comments, shall be filed before the close of the term, and may
subsequently be incorporated in the bill of exceptions. 

SEC. 1. A bill of exceptions shall contain only so much of the evi­
dence as may be necessary to present the questions of law raised at the trial, and it shall be
the duty of the judge, upon settling it, to strike out all the evidence and other matters )Vhich
shall not have been necessarily inserted therein. 
SEC. 2. In all cases where the testimony given at any trial shall have been
taken down by a phonographic reporter, the party desiring to settle a bill of exceptions shall
procure from such reporter a full and complete transcript in long-hand of the evidence and
other matters relating to the action contained in his notes, which shall be certified by him
to be a correct transcript thereof. The testimony shall be written out and embraced m the
proposed bill of exceptions, in the narrative form, and the party preparing such bill of ex­
ceptions shall. when he serves a copy thereof on the all verse party, deliver to him therewith
such transcript of the reporter's notes, to enable him to prepare and propose amendments to
such bill, which shall be returned to the party pro ·uring it at the same time of serving such
amendments thereto, or at the expiration of the time for serving the same. Where the tea.
timony bas been taken by a phonographic reporter it shall not be incorporated in any bill of
exceptions, at length, by question and answer, but the judge who settles the same may, if be
<leem it material that any particular part of such testimony shall appear by question and
answer, direct that such part shall appear therein in that form.

SEC. 1. All bills of costs and disburse­
ments to be taxed in any action or proceeding shall be itemized and made out in a plain and
legible manner and notice of the time and place of such taxation shall be given at least three
days prior to taxing the same, which notice shall be aocompanied with a copy of the proposed 
bill. 
SEC. 2. The party opposing such taxation or the taxation of any particular item
or Items thereof shall, at or before the time appointed for such taxation, file in writing with tho
clerk a particular statement of bis objections thereto, and he may produce before the clerk &r
other taxing officer, at the time and place of such taxation, such proofs in support thereof as be
may deem material, and the clerk or other taxing officer may, in his discretion, adjourn such
taxation, upon cause shown therefor, a reasonable time to enable either party to produce 
proofs material thereto. r1 
SEC. 3. WhPn any bill of costs shall be taxed the offl­
cer taxing the same shall note thereon all items disallowed and all items allowed which have
been objected to, and the action of such taxing officer in respect thereto may be reviewed
by the court on motion of the party aggrieved thereby, which shall be founded on the bill of
costs and disbursements and the papers and vouchers on file in respect thereto, and the no­
tice thereof shall plainly point out in what respect the party is aggrieved by the action of 
such taxiDg officer. No objection shall be entertained on such review which was not made 
before the taxing officer unlesa the court shall otherwise allow in order to prevent great hard·
ahip or manifest injustice. 

SEC. 1. When a ered­ 
Itor, by judgment or decree, shall bring an action against his debtor. under sec. 3029 of the 
revised statutes, after the return of an execution unsatisfied, he shal! state in his complaint
the true sum actually and equitably due on such judgment or decree. It shall also contain
an allegation that the action is not commenced or prosecuted by collusion with such defend·
ant or for the purpose of protecting bis property or effects against the claims of other cred­
itors, but for the sole purpose of compelling payment and satisfaction of the plaintiff's own
de Lt. 
SEC. 2. Where several such actions or several proceedings supplementary to 
execution are brought by different creditors against the same debtor no more than one re-
ceiver of his property and effects shall be appointed unless the first appointment bad been
obtained by fraud or collusion, or unless the receiver is an improper person to execute the
trust; and any court or judge, before appointing such receiver, shall make proper inquiry in
respect to such matters before making such appointment. The receiver sbalf give securit7
sufficient to cover the whole property and effects of the debtor which may come into his
hands by virtue of his trust, and he shall hold such property and effects for the benefit of all
creditors who have commenced or who shall commence similar actions or proceedings during
the continuance of his trust, to be disposed of according to their legal or equitable priori tie&
He shall not pay over the funds in his hands to the parties or ta any other person without
being specially authorized to do so by an order or judgment of the court; nor shall he be dis­
charged from his trust without a special order to be obtained upon the written consent of
all the parties interested in the funds in his hands or for cause shown upon due notice of the
ape,li<:&tion for such discharge . 
SEC. 3. An injunction may be granted and a re­
ceiver appointed in any stage of such action, either on stipulation or on motion.. The court
or a judge may appoint such receiver, or the court may make an order referring it to a court
commissioner to appoint a receiver with the usual powers, and to take from him the requisite
security. The order shall also direct the defendant to assign, convey and deliver over to the­
reoeiver, on oath, under the direction of such judge or court commissioner, all his property
not exempt from execution, equitable interests, things in action and effects, and all notes,
bonds, mortgages, deeds, books and accounts, contracts, papers, evidences and securities re­
lating to the same, and that he appear before such judge or commissioner, from time to time,
and produce such books and papers and submit to such examination on oath as he shall direct
in relation to any matter which he may be legally required to disclose. The plaintiff shall
also be at liberty to examine witnesses before such judge or commissioner as to the property
of the defendant, or as to any matter alleged in the complaint in such action and not ad·
mitted by the defendant; but no receiver shall be appointed in any proceeding supplementary
to execution until after the examination of the debtor therein. 
SEC. 4. No injunction granted in such action or proceeding
shall be construed to prevent the debtor from receiving and applying the proceeds of his sub­
sequent earnings to the support of himself or his family or to defray the expenses of the
action, or to prevent him from complying with any order of the court made in any other
cause, to assign and deliver his property and effects to a receiver, or to restrain him from
making the necessary assignment to obtain bis discharge under the insolvent laws, unless an
express provision to that effect is contained in the injunction. 
SEC. 15. Every receiver in such action or proceeding of
the property and effects of the debtor shall, unless restricted by special order, have general
power and authority to sue for and collect all the debts, demands and rents due to and belong·
ing to such debtor and to compromise and settle such as are unsafe and of a doubtful char·
acter. He may also sue in the name of the debtor where it is necessary or proper for him to
do so, and he may apply for and obtain an order of course that the tenants of any real estate
belonging to the debtor, or of which he is entitled to the rents and profits, attorn and pay the
rents to him as such receiver. Be shall also be permitted to make leases from time to time,
as may be necessary, for terms not exceeding one year. And it shall be his duty, without
unreasonable delay, to convert all the personal estate and effects into money; but he 1ball
not sell any real estate of the debtor without the special order or judgment of the court
directing such sale. Be shall not be allowed for the costs of any action brought by him
against an insolvent from whom he is unable to co11ect his costs unless such action is brought
by order of the court or by consent of all persons interested in the funds in his hands. But
he may sell such desperate debts and all doubtful claims to personal property at public auo­
tion, giving at least ten days' public notice of the time and place of such sale. 
SEC. 6. Whenever a receiver shall be appointed in any action or proceed·
ing, before entering upon the duties of his trust he shall give security, in the form of a bond,
to the clerk of the court and his successors in office of the county in which such action or
proceeding is pending, with two or more sufficient sureties, who shall justify as in case of
arrest and bail, conditioned in the usual manner, to be approved by the court or a judge or
the court commissioner making such appointment, and such bond shall be filed in the office
of such clerk. Upon filing such bond so approved the appointment of such receiver shall 
be complete and he shall he deemed vested with all the rights and powers and subject to all
the duties of such trust as they shall or may exist in relation to the particular action or pro­
ceeding in which he has been so appointed. 
SEC. 7. No warrant shall be issued for the arrest of a judgment
debtor under the provisions of sec. 3032 of the revised statutes unless the affidavit mentioned
in said section shall state the facts and circumstances upon which the party relies to prove
that there is danger of the judgment debtor's leaving the state or concealing himself, nor
unless such affidavit shall also specify and describe the property, so far as practicable, which
he claims the jud~ment debtor unjustly refuses to apply to the satisfaction of the judgment. 

SEC. 1. Where the rights and interests of the several parties, as stated in
any complaint for partition, are not denied or controverted, if any of the defendants are in­
fants or absentees or unknown an order of reference shall be made by the court, on motion,
founded on affidavit stating such facts. and notice to such of the parties as have appeared to 
take proof of the plaintiff's title and interest in the premises, and of the several matters set
forth in the complaint, and to ascertain and report the rights and interests of the several
parties in the premises. and to return an abstract of the conveyances by which the same are
held, if necessary. 
SEC. 2. Whenever the court shall be
satisfied that an order directing the sale of the premises or any part thereof ought to be made 
in conformity with the provisions of seo. 8119 of the revised statutes, an order of reference
may be made by the court, on motion of any party having an interest in or lien on the prem­
ises which ought to be protected, founded on affidavit stating such interest and notice to
such parties as have appeared, to ascertain and report whether any person not a party to the
suit has a lien by judgment, mortgage, devise, or otherwise, upon the undivided share or in­
terest of any of the parties, or upon any part or all of the shares or interests of the parties in
that portion of the premises which it is necessary to sell; and the amount due to any party
who shall appear and establish his claim on such reference, and whether such lien would re­
main as an incumbrance on the premises in the hands of the purchaser, to the end that suob
directions may be J:ri,•en in relation to the same in the order for the sale of the premises 1111 
shall he most beneficial to all the parties interested in the proceeds thereof on such sale.

SEC. 1. If, in an action to foreoloee a mortgage
upon real estate, the defendant fails to answer within the time allowed for that purpose, or
the right of the plaintiff as stated ia the complaint is admitted by the answer, the plaintiff
may have an order referring the action to the clerk or commissioner or to some suitable per­
son ae referee, to compute the amount due to the plaintiff and to such of the defendants
as are prior incumbrancers of the mortgaged premises, and to examine and report whether
the mortgaged premises can be sold in parcels and whether any and what portion thereof are
held as a homestead. If either of the defendants is an infant and has pot in the general an­
swer by his guardian, or if any of the defendants are absentees, the order of reference shall
direct such referee to take proof of the facts and circumstances stated in the complaint, and
to examine the plaintiff or bis agent on oath as to any payments which have been made,
and to compute the amount due on the mortgage preparatory to the application for judg­
ment of foreclosure and sale. Where no answer has been put in by the defendant, or an1
answer denying any material facts of the complaint. the plaintiff, after the action is in readi­
ness for judgment as to all of the defendants, may apply for judgment at any term of the
court upon due notice to such of the defendants as have appeared in the action,and without
putting the same on the calendar. The plaintiff in such case, where he moves for judgment,
must show by affidavit or otherwise whether any of the defendants who have not appeared
are infants or absentees; and if so he must produce the report as to the proof of the facts
and circumstances stated in the complaint, and of the examination of the plaintiff or his
agent on oath as to any payments which have been made
SEC. 2. In every judgment for the sale of mortgaged premises the descrip­
tion and particular boundaries of the property to be sold, so far at least as the same can be
ascertained from the mortgage, shall be inserted, and if the sale is to be by a referee he shall
be named therein. And unless otherwise specially ordered by the court the judgment shall
direct that the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to raise the
amount due to the plaintiff for principal, interest and costs, and which may be sold separately
without material injury jo the parties interested, be sold by or under the direction of the
sheriff of the county or a referee, and that the plaintiff or any other party may become a
purchaser on such sale; that the sheriff or referee execute a deed to the purchaser; thf\t out
of the proceeds of the sale he pay to the plaintiff or his attorne7 the amount of his debt, in­
terest and costs, or BO much as the purchase-money will pay o the same, and that he take
the receipt of the plaintiff or bis attol'Dey for the amount I.\O paid, and file the same with his
report of sale; and that the purchaser at such sale, after eonflrmation thereof, be let into
possession of the premises on production of the deed or a duly certified copy thereof. In
case of a surplus arising from the sale of mortgaged premises under any such Judgment the
sheriff or referee, at the time of filing his report of sale, shall bring the same mto court for
the use of the person or persons who may be entitled thereto, subject to the order of the court, 
SEC. 3. On filing the report of the sale of mortgaged premises, and after the
surplus moneys, if any, shall have been brought and paid into court by the sheriff or ref­
eree, any party to the action, or any person not a party who had a lien upon the mortgaged
premises at the time of sale, upon filing with the clerk where the report of sale is filed a
notice stating that he is entitled to such surplus moneys or some part thereof, and the nature
and extent of his claim, may have an order of reference to ascertain and report the amount 
' due to him or any other person which is a lien upon such surplus moneys; and to ascertain
the priorities of the several liens thereon, to the end that, on the coming in and eonftrmat.ion
of the report on such reference, such further order may be made for the distributrou uf such
surplus moneys as may be just. Every party who appeared in the action, or who shall have
filed such notice with the clerk, previous to the entry of the order of reference, shall be entitled
to service of a notice to attend on such reference, and to the usual notices of subsequent pro­
ceedings relative to such surplus moneys. But if such claimant has not appeared or made hia
claim by an attorney of the court the notice may be served by putting the same in the post­
oflice, directed to the claimant at his place of residence, as stated in the notice of his claim. 
SEC. 4. Where mortgaged premises or other real estate directed to be sold
consist of several distinct lots or parcels, which can be sold separately without diminishing
the value thereof on such sale, it shall be the duty of the sheriff or referee conducting the
Die to sell the same in separate lots or parcels, unless otherwise specially directed by the
con rt.. 
SEC. 5. Whenever a sheriff or referee sells mort­
gag,,d premises under an order of judgment it shall be the duty of the plaintiff, before a deed
shall be executed to the purchaser, if such mortrrage has not been duly proved or acknowl­
edged so as to entitle it to be recorded, to tile the same with the clerk; or if so proved or- 
acknowledged, and not already recorded. to cause the same to beduly recorded in the office
of the register of deeds of the county or counties where the premises sold are situated; the
expense of which filing or recording shall be allowed in the taxation of costs; and if filed
with the clerk he shall enter in his minute book the fact of the filing of such mortgage and
the time thereof. But this rule shall not extend to any case where the mortgage appears by
the pleadings or proofs in the action to have been lost or destroyed.

SEC.1. In actions of mandamus and quo 
u,arranto, after issue joined, either party may apply to the court by motion for an order pre­
BOribing what partlcutar questions shall be tried by jury; and the court or the judge thereof
shall thereupon settle the same and make an order stating plainly and separately the ques­
tions to be so tried. And no other questions shall be tried th~ein by such jury. 

SEC. 2. In all actions of mandamua or quo warranto in which the result 
of any election, except as provided in sec. 8468 of the revised statutes, shall be in issue, be­ 
fore either party shall be permitted to offer proof, upon the trial, of the illegality of the vote
of any person who voted at such election be shall show to the court that he has, at least
twenty days before the commencement of the trial, served upon the opposite party a notice
in writing that he olaims the vote of such voter to be illegal, stating the grounds of such
alleged illegality.
SEC. Before either party in any action shall be permitted to offer proof, on the
trial, of the illegality of the entire vote of any town, ward or election precinct, b1 reason of
any alleged informality or defe~t in conducting the same or of any fraud therein, he Bhall
show to the court that he has served upon the opposite party, at least twenty days before the
commencement of the trial, a notice in writing that he should claim on the trial the vote of .
such town, ward or precinct to be illegal, specifving the grounds of such alleged illegality.
SEC. 4. Whenever the facts of which notice is to be given by this rule shall be 
stated in the pleadings of the party, that shall be deemed a full compliance with the rule on
his part.
SEC. 1. Every person not an infant, insane person or per­
.on under other disability interested in ·any matter or proceeding before the court or judge
shall appear and conduct, prosecute or defend the same, as the case may be, by some attorney
duly admitted to practice in the circuit court or in his own proper person, and not other­
wise. Infants, insane persons and other persons under disability shall appear and prosecute
and defend by their guardian ad litem, who shall be some such attorney, or by their general 
guardian.

SEC. 2. When a party shall have appeared by attorney in any 
matter or proceeding all further proceedings on his part shall be conducted by such attorney
unless another attorney shall be substituted in his place. .Any attorney so appearing for a 
party shall be his attorney in any appeal from the action of the court in any such matter or
proceeding unless another be substituted in his place. Substitution of one attorney for an­
other must be by order of the court or judge, upon written consent of the party and attorney
or upon cause shown, and upon such terms as shall be just and proper after due notice to the
attorney. All appearances, whether by a party in person, by attorney or by guardian, shall
be entered in the minute book.
SEC. 3. No attorney who shall have ap­
peared for an executor, administrator or guardian shall be allowed to appear and act as at­
torney or counsel for any heir, next of kin or creditor or other person in relation to the same
estate or matter; nor shall any attorney or counsel for such heir, next of kin or other person
be allowed to appear or act therein as attorney or counsel for such executor, administrator
or guardian,
SEC. 4. No county judge, while holding such office, shall be
in any manner engaged or act as attorney or counsel in any action, proceeding or matter in, 
or which he has good reason to believe will be brought in, any of the county courts of this
state or give any advice or opinion concerning the same or the questions therein involved,
except and only so far as may be necessary or proper to do so in performing his duty under
the _provisions of sec. 24M of the revised statutes. 
SEC. 5. Except as provided in sec. 2455 of the re­ 
vised statutes no judge of any county court, while holding such office, or bis clerk or any
person employed by such judge in or about his office shall draw any papers necersary for the
commencement or prosecution of any action, proceeding or matter in any of the county
courts of this state. 
SEC. 6. Citations, notices, subpcenas or any process
issued by the court may be served and proof of service made in the same manner and by the
same person as is provided by law for the service of a summons in the circuit court, and like
fees shall be taxed therefor.
SEC. All notices and papers in any matter or proceeding required to be served
on any party may be served on his attorney, who shall have appeared therein, or his general
or testamentary guardian or guardian ad litem, as the case may be, unless the object of such
service shall be to bring the party into contempt, in which case the service must be personal
Rule 4, county court rules. 
SEC. A guardian ad litem shall in all cases be appointed to pro,
tect the rights and interests of minors in the examination and settlement of the final account
of guardians with their wards: and upon the application of the guardian to sell the real ee­
tate of the ward or any part thereof, and to confirm such sale. 
SEC. At or before the time when any order shall be made or yroceeding had affecting
directly the rights or interests of any minor, unless he has a genera guardian not adversely 
interested, the court shall appoint a guardian ad litem to protect the rights and interests of
such minor in relation to such order or proceeding .
SEC. 3. The p~rson appointed as guardian ad litem shall be an attorne_y admitted to prac­
tice m the circuit court, who is competent to understand and protect the rights of such minor;
and has no feeling or interest adverse to the rights of the minor, and is of sufficient pecun­
iary responsibility to pay any damage which may result from the negligence or misconduct
of such guardian ad litem. The appomtment may be made by an order in the minute book.
Rule 9, county court rules. 
SEC. 9. No resignation of any executor, administrator, testamentary trustee or
guardian shall be received or accepted until reduced to writing and signed by the party
making the same and filed in the court. Each such resignation shall state the reasons exist·
ing for making the same. Rule 11, county court rules. 
SEC. 1. At or before the time set for hearing any application, petition. claim or account,
any party appeari ng to contest the same may file an answer thereto by way of general or
special denial or se t t i ng up any affirmative defense thereto; and when any question of fact
other than upon a written application or petition shall arise. the court may order an issue to
be made up in respect thereto in such form as shall be best adapted to its determination.
The court shall thereupon proceed to the trial and determination of all such issues, and the
decision of th» court thereon shall be given in writing and filed, stating the facts found,and
the court shall enter such order thereon as is required by law.
SEC. 2. All rules heretofore adopted by any county court are hereby
abrogated and repealed, and shall not be in force unless re-adopted by such court and be not
inconsistent with these rules
SEC. 2. If none of the subscribing witnesses to a will reside in this state at 
the time fixed for proving the same and the probate of the same is contested, the proponent
of the will may cause the deposition of such subscribing witnesses, or the deposition of any
one of them, to be taken to prove such will, which depositions may be taken on such notice
as the judge shall prescribe m the same manner and under the same provisions of law as the
depositions of witnesses out of the state may be taken to be used in the circuit oourt; and
the court may in its discretion admit the testimony of other witnesses as provided in sec. 
8788 of the revised statutes, in cases where no person appears to contest.. Rule 6, county
court rules. 

SEC. 3. Each of the sureties named in the executor's or administra­
tor's bond required to be given under the provisions of secs. 3794 and 3809 of the revised stat­
utes must be a resident of this state. and shall justify as to his or their responsibility, and
when required shall do so before the judge or some other officer required by him. Rule 8,
county court rules. 

SEC. 1. Every request by the widow or next of kin, or both,
of a ny deceased person, to have any other person appointed an administrator, shall be in writ,.
ing, subscribed by the parties entitled to make the same, and filed in the court, before any
such person shall be appointed such administrator. 

SEC. Every executor, administrator, t.esta.mentary trustee
or guardian shall verify by bis oath any inventory required to be returned and filed of the 
real estate and of all the goods, chattels, rights and credits of the deceased, or which pertain 
'to such trust estate, or belong to hie ward, as the case may be, and such verification shall be
to the effect that such inventor)" is a just and true inventory of all suoh real estate, goods, - 
chattels, rights and credits, which belong to suob estate or ward, which bave come to his 
possession or knowledge, and that upon diligent inquiry he has not been able to discover any -
other property or estate belonging to such estate or ward which is not included therein.
Upon the return of any such inventory the oourt, at the requeat of any party interested or
on its own motion, may examine the party returning the eam.e OD oath in relation thereto or
in relation to any suppeaed omieston therefrom.

SEC. 2. If any executor, administrator, testamentary
_ trustee or guardian shall fail to return any inventory required of him within the time lim· 
ited therefor, it shall be the duty of the court at its next term thereafter, upon it.a ow.a mo­
tion, to cite such party so in default to appear and show cause before the oourt, at some
regular or special term thereof, to be therein specified, why be has not done so; and if he
shall neglect to appear as required by the citation an attachment shall be awarded against
him to enforce the performance of such neglected duty, upon whioh the oourt shall make
such order in the premises as shall be just and proper. The party so in default shall be re­ 
quired to pa1 the ooets of such citation or attachment. 

SEC. 3. If anr heir, legatee, creditor or other person interested
in the estate of any deceased person shal file in the county court a complaint duly verified
that any executor or adminititrator, in the inventory made by him and returned, has omitted
or neglected to specify any personal property or debt due to the estate of the deceased, which
property or debt shall be of the aggregate value of fifty dollars or more, and shall be specified in
such complaint with such certainty that the same can be identified, the court shall cite such ex­
ecutor or .administrator to answer the said complaint by a time to be named in such citation,
which answer shall be verified, if the complaint is, and shall constitute an issue which the
court shall bear and determine. Upon such hearing the court may examine any competent _
witnesses or other evidence that may be offered by either part,-, and may make such order
in relation to the matter stated in such complaint as shall be Just and proper, and may in 
ite discretion award costs in accordance with the provisiona of sec. 4041 of the revised stat­ 
ntes, Rule 12, county court rules.

SEC. 1. Whenever any suspected person shall be cited before the
county court according to the provisions of sections 3825 or i!989 of the revised statutes the
court may bring before it and examine witnesses and receive any competent evidence in re­
lation to the complaint against such suspected person, whether in support of or in opposition 
to such complaint; and the court may also receive any competent e'ridenoe in relation to 
any Indebtedness by such person to the deceased which has not been inventoried by the ex·
ecutor or administrator or guardian, and the court may then make such order in relati9n to 
the matter stated in such complaint and in relation to suob indebt.edness as shall be just and 
proper.

SEC. 1. Whenever commissioners are appoi .. ted to receive, exam­
ine and adjust claims and demands against deceased persons they shall subscribe the oath
which, by section 8889 of the revised statutes. they are required to take; which, with the
jurat, shall be appended to and returned with their report. 
SEC. 2. No claim against any deceased person shall be allowed
by the court or commissioners, whether any objection to the same be made or not, unless
satisfactory evidence shall be presented that it is just and ought to be allowed. If such claim
be presented to the court the same may be referred to a suitable referee to take evidence and
report the same to the court with his opinion as to the justness and propriety of allowing
such claim; after whioh the same shall be allowed or disallowed as the court determines to
be just.
SEC. 3. Whenever the allowance of any claim so presented shall be objected
to by any executor, administrator, heir, devisee or legatee of the deceased, or by any creditor,
the claimant or his attorney shall present to the court or commissioners a brief and succinct
statement in writing of the nature and character of the claim, and the facts relied on in sup­
port of It, which statement shall be the complaint of the claimant, and shall be verified as
complaints in the circuit court are required to be verified. 
SEC. 4. The party objecting to such claim shall present his
answer to suoh claim, and may set forth a counter-claim according to the practice in the cir­
cuit court, and the answer shall be verified if the complaint is verified. The claimant may
then file a reply in cases where the same would be proper in the circuit court. 
SEC. 5. When the issue is thus made up the court or eom­
missioners shall proceed to hear and receive all competent evidence that may be properly
presented by the claimant or contestant in relation thereto, and the testimony of all witnesses
sworn and examined, having been reduced to writing as required by sec. 2457 of the revised
statutes, the court or commissioners shall then ascertain and allow the balance against or in
favor of the estate as the same may be found, and such pleadings, evidence and determination
shall be filed with the general statement of claims prepared by the court or commissioners,
and costs may be a.warded in the discretion of the court in accordance with the provisions of 
sec. 4041 of the revised statutes. 
SEC. 9. No-executor or administrator shall pay any claim of any
nature, in whole or in part. against the estate in his hands unless the same shall have been 
first. allowed by the court or commissioners or upon the special order of the court. A copy
of this rule shall be printed on the back of all letters testamentary or of administration issued
by the court. Rule 13, county court rules, 
SEC. 7. Any adjournment by the court or commissioners of the
examination or adjustment of claims to a period beyond the time limited by the court for 
creditors to present their claims shall not operate as an extension of the time so limited, but
such time shall only be enlarged or extended as provided for by section 8840 of the revised
statutes. 

SEC. 6. The party objectln~ to any claim or counter-olalm
need not, by demurrer, answer or reply, set up that the claim was not presented within the
time limited by Jaw; but if it appear by the complaint or counter-claim or evidence that the
claim or counter-claim is barred by the statute of limitations, the same shall be disallowed
by the court or oommissionere, as required by section 8841 of the revised statute& Rule 18,
county oourt rules. 

SEC. 8. Whenever an order or judgment shall have been made by
the court for the payment of the debts of any deceased person in whole or in part and it shall ·
appear to the court by affidavit that any creditor entitled to such payment has ma.de demand
of the same from the executor or administrator, and that such payment has been refused or
unreasonably neglected after such demand, the court may cite such administrator to show
cause why a peremptory order should not be made for such payment. Upon the return of
such citation the court may, in addition to the remedies prescribed by sec. 3856 of the revised
statutes. make an order that such executor or administrator shall pay such deht by a short
day to be limited in said order; and if the said executor or administrator, after being served
with notice of such order, shall wilfully disobey the same, he shall be punished as for a crimi­
nal contempt of court.
SEC. 1. Every petition for the assignment of dower or of bomesteada
under the provisions of oh. 166 ot the revised statutes shall set forth a full and accurate de­ 
scription of the lands situated within the state from which the J?f:titioner asks to have dower
or homestead assigned, the age and place of residence of the widow, the time when the hus­ 
band died, his domicile at the time of his death, and shall also state whether any and which
of the heirs or other persons interested in such lands or any part thereof are minors under
the age of fourteen years; and in case there be any minors of any age no hearing shall be 
had on the petition nor warrant iasned until after· the appointment of a guardian ad litem
for each of them, as provided by sec. 2614 of the revised statutes, nor until due notice of such
hearing shall have been given to the guardian of each unless such notice shall be waived by
the guardian by his appearance on the application or otherwise. Rule 19, county court rules. 

SEC. 2. Whenever a party, as a tenant for life or by the curtesy or
dower, or other person is entitled to the annual interest or income of any sum paid into the court
and invested in permanent securities, such party shall be charged with the expense of invest·
ing such sum and of receiving and paying over the interest or income thereof. In every case
where a person is entitled to and consents to accept a gross sum in lieu of annual interest or
income !or life, the same shall be estimated according to the then value of an annuity of six
per cent. on the principal sum during the probable life of such person according to the North·
ampton Table&
Cal­
culate the interest at six per cent. for one year upon the sum to the income of which the per­ 
son is entitled. ·Multiply this interest by the number of years' purchase set opposite the
person's age in the table, and the product is the gr088 value of the life estate of each person
in said sum

SEC. 1. No aeseint to the mortgage, lease or sale of a11y lands by an ex·
ecutor or administrator, by the person interested in the estate, shall be sufficient to dispense
with notice of the time and place of the hearing of any application for license to make such
mortgage, lease or sale unless the same be in writin~, signed by all the parties assenting
thereto, in the presence of the judge or two subscribing witnesses, and filed in the oourt.
Rule 18, county court rules.
SEC. The value of any dower right or other life estate in premises sold
at any executor's, administrator's or guardian's sale may be ascertained and computed ac­
cording to rule 82 of the rules of practice of the circuit court.

SEC. 1. Upon the filing of any report of sale of any real estate by the executor,
administrator or guardian, no order for the confirmation thereof shall be made without pre- _
vious notice of application therefor of at least five daya to all parties interested in the estate
who have appeared in the matter or proceeding, either in person, by attorney or guardian ad _ 
litem; and at the time of making such application any person interested as creditor, heir, next
of kin or otherwise may appear and flle objections in writing to such confirmation, and be 
allowed to produce evidence and be beard in support thereof. 

SEC. 2. Whenever any executor or administrator shall be about to ren­
der his tinaJ administration account he shall make out and tile, not less than thirty days
before the day fixed for examining and allowing the same, a statement in detail of such ae­
count, in 
SEC. 4. Any person interested may file specific objections to
any item of such account as tiled or tile in writing any claim that he may make that an7
assets or property have been omitted in the statement of such account which the- executor
or administrator received or might and ought to have received and accounted for. If i\
shall appear that any such assets or property is held by any other person claiming title
thereto or any interest therein, which is disputed, if all the persons interested in said estate
appear and consent, or any person shall indemnify the executor or administrator against the
co-ts and expenses of litigation to recover such assets or property the court may suspend the
settlement of such account until the question is determined or may settle the accoun~,. leav­
ing such matter to be the subject of a further or supplemental account after the question of title shall be determined; but the court shall not direct the executor or administrator to 
prosecute any such claim unless all the persons interested shal] consent thereto or some per- 
OD or persons shall indemnify the executor or administrator against all costs and expenses
of such litigation. Rule 15, county court rules. 

SEC. 1. Whenever the county judge shall be informed by the filing of the
affidavit of any person interested, or shall otherwise have reason to believe that any execu­
tor, administrator. trustee or guardian within his jurisdiction bas intentionally filed a false
tnveutory, or cla.ms as his own property, or permits others to claim and retain property be- 
longin~ to the estate which he represents, or is guilty of waste or mismanagement, of the
estate m his possession, or for any cause has become unfit or incompetent for the proP.t'r per­
formance of the duties of his position, the county court shall appoint a guardian ad litem. for
any minor or incompetent person interested, if any, and proceed to cite such executor, ad­
ministrator, trustee or guardian to render and file his account. If upon the examination of
such account the court shall deem it necessary to proceed further, a time and place for the
adjustment and settlement of said account shall be fixed by the court. and notice thereof
shall be given to such guardian ad litem; if any is appointed, and to all persons interested,
in such manner as the court shall order, not less than three weeks before the day of hear­
ing. If, upon the adjustment of said account, the court shall be of the opinion that the in­
terests of the estate, and of the persons interested, require it, such executor, administrator,
trustee or guardian may be removed and another appointed as provided by law. Rule 11, 
county court rules.

SEC. 2. No further sum than is specifically provided for by section 8929 of
the revised statutes shall be allowed as compensation to any executor or administrator, ex­
cept in the rendition of his final aooount, nor then unless the same is set up as a claim in the
statement of such account required by the second section of this rule to be made out and
tiled. If such final account is not contested as above provided it shall not be aJlowed of
course, but the court shall he satisfied of its correctness before allowing the same. Rule lo, 
county court rules, 
SEC. 1. The notice required to be given by section 8981 of the revised 
statutes, of the time and place of examination and allowing the final account of any exec>
utor or administrator, when required to be served personally, shall be served at least twenty
days before the time fixed for such examination and allowance
SEC. 2. Whenever an executor or administrator shall be about
to render his final administration account he shall make out and file, not Jess than thirty days
before the day fixed for examining and allowing the same, a statement in detail of such ac­ 
count, in accordance with the principles of aooounting contained in chapter 168 of the re­ 
vised statutes. Rule 15, county court rules.
SEC. 1. When a petition Is filed for
the appointment of a general guardian for any minor under fourteen who has a parent or 
pa.rents, living in this state, by any other person than a parent, the court shall require at
least ten days' notice to be given to such parent or parents of the time and place when and
where the court will sit upon such petition, unless it shall appear to the court that for some
cause the interests of such minor may require a nomination and appointment of guardian
without delay or said parent or parents shall appear and consent or shall have consented in
writing to such appointment. And if such appointment be made without such previous no­
tice to or appearance by such parent or parents notice of such appointment shall be imme­
diately given to such parent or parents by mail or otherwise if the residence or postofflce
address is known. 
SEC. 2. The time at which any guardian and testamentary trustee
shall render his first annual account, as required by sections 8971 and 4025 of the revised
statutes, shall be on or before the first Tuesday of the month next after the end of one year
from the date of the letters of guardianship of such guardian or of the bond of such trustee,
and on or within ten days of the first Tuesday of the same month in every year thereafter;
which time. in case of the guardian, shall be indorsed upon the letters of guardianship when
the same are granted. Every such annual account, whether of a guardian or trustee, shall
specify therein the facts required by section 3971 of the revised statutes and such other facts
as the judge or court may require. 
SEC. 3. The notice of the
examination of a guardian's account, required to be given by sec. 8972 of the revised statutes,
shall be given to a guardian ad litem of the ward who shall be appointed as provided by these
rules at or before such examination. Upon such bearing any errors in such account may be 
corrected upon the principles applicable to the settlement of guardians' accounts and the ao­ 
count so corrected shall be frima facie correct. But if it shall appear that such guardian ia
incompetent or is guilty o fraud or mismanagement of the ward's estate, such guardian 
shall be removed and another appointed and his final accounts settled upon notice to the 
new guardian and next of kin of the ward it such next of kin resides in the county. Rule 8. 
county court rules. 

SEC. 1. When it shall be necessary to appoint a guardian ad litem to appear
for any minor or other person under disability, as provided by chapter 291> of the laws of 1887 
(Sanborn & Berryman's Annotated Statutes, sec. 4052a), the court, if it should be deemed
necessary or proper that the matter of any petition should be examined by such guardian be·
fore the hearing, may appoint such guardian ad litem in or at the time of making the order
for nearing the matter, and require notice thereof and of such hearing to be served upon
such guardian; or such guardian may be appointed on the return day of the notice and be­
fore any proceedings are had or order made, on such notice or order of hearing. The guard·
ian ad litem first appointed shall continue to act for the ward throughout the whole proceed­
ing in relation to the same estate or matter until the final settlement or conclusion, unless
otherwise ordered; but upon the application of such minor, if over fourteen years old, or of
the next of kin of the ward, or for any reason, in the discretion of the court, the appointment
may be revoked and another guardian ad litem appointed.


SEC. 2. All applications for permission of the county
court to bring actions on the bonds of executors, administrators, guardians or testamentary 
trustees shall be in writing, stating briefly the grounds of such proposed action, and shall
be verified by the oath of the applicant or of some one who is acquainted with the facts, and 
be accompanied with the certificate of some reputable attorney that he has examined the
facts of the case, and, in his opinion, a valid and meritorious cause of action exists in favor
of such applicant. 
SEC. 2. When costs shall be awarded to the prevailing party in any matter
or proceeding under seo. 4041 of the revised statutes they shall be taxed by the judge upon
like notice and in like manner as provided by rule 88 of the rules of the circuit court. Rule 
21, county court rules. 

SEC. 1. Special terms may be appointed for such Tuesdays or days authorized
by law as the court shall deem proper, by a general order entered in the minutes of the court, 
to stand until further order, or by special order appointing a special term; and when any
order shall Le made and notice given for the hearing of any matter at a special term to be
held on any day when by law a special term mizht be appointed such order shall be a sufficient
appointment of a special term on the day so designated, 

SEC. 1. Whenever any notice is published embracing matters
connected with more than one estate, as provided in section 4050 of the revised statutes, the
oost of such publication may be paid for by the representative of either of the estates to
which the publication relates; and the proportionate part of the sum so paid which ought to 
be paid out of such other estates shall be paid by the executor or administrator thereof to the
person who shall have paid the same.

SEC. 2. The printer, or the foreman of such printer,' of the news­
paper in which such notice is published shall make and deliver to the court, upon the com­
pletion of such publication, as many affidavits thereof as there are estates to which the pub­
lication relates, one of which affidavits shall be filed with the papers of the estate to which
the same relates. Rule 2.0, county court rules.

SEC. 1. The party desfrin~ to procure a commis­
sion to take the testimony ol a witness ont of the state, under the provisions of sec& 4118 and
4114 of the revised statutes, shall state in the caption of the direct interrogatories prepared
for that purpose the name of the commissioner proposed by him and his place of residence,
stating not only the state and county, but tile particular town, city or village in which such
commissioner resides, as well as such witness: and the neglect or omission of such party eo
to specify the same may be alleged as a ground of objection to the issuing of the commission, 

SEC. 2. The party preparing cross-interrogatories to be filed
and served under the provisions of said sec. 4114 shall, in the caption to such cross-interroga­
tories or in a notice accompanying the same, state the name of the additional commissioner, 
if any, whom he desires to act as such, and his place of residence, specifying not only the
state and county, but the particular town, city or village in which such proposed commis­
sioner resides. If he shall neglect or omit to name an additional commissioner and specify 
his place of residence as provided by this rule he shall be deemed to have waived his right to
name an additional commissioner. Such party ma,: also serve and file objections to the issu­
ing of the commission, to the competency of the witnesses or either of them, or to any direct 
interrogatory proposed.

SEC. 3. If any cross-interrogatories shall be served and filed within
the time limited therefor, the commission shall in no case issue until the expiration of two
days thereafter; within which time the party applying for such commission may file with
the clerk objections to such cross-interrogatories or any of them. When the moving farty
shall have flied the notice and interrogatories on his part, with proof of service thereo , and
bis objections, if any, to the cross-interrogatories have been served and filed, or after the ex­
piration of the time Iimited for filing such objections, the clerk shall issue the commission,
under the see.I of the court-directed to the commissioner or commissioners named, and annex
thereto such direct and cross-interrogatories and such objections to either as have been
filed, or true copies thereof, and inclose the same in a suitable envelope, sealed and plainly
directed to the commissioner named in the caption to the direct interrogatories, at his place
of residence, and thereupon tr.ansmit the same to him, by mail or by express, prepaying the
charges therefor, which the clerk shall charge to and collect. of the moving party. 
SEC> 4. On the receipt of the commission by the commis­
sioner named in the direct interrogatories he shall fix a time and place for executing it, and
notify the other commissioner, if any there be under the provisions of sec. 4114 of the revised
statutes, unless such notice be waived in writing or by his appearance at the execution of 
the commission. At the time and place so fixed the commissioner or commissioners shall
proceed to execute such commission in accordance with said sec. 4114 and secs, 4, 6 and 6 ot 
this rule, copies whereof shall be transmitted with the commission for their instruction. If 
either of the commissioners shall not attend at the time and place so fixed the other may
proceed to execute the same with like effect as if both were present; but he must certify in
bis return that the commissioaer so absent had due notice of the time and place of execut­
ing the same and that be failed to attend pursuant thereto. 
SEC. 5. The commissioner or commissioners shall proceed to execute the same as 
follows: The commissioners, or one of them, shall publicly administer an oath to each wit­
ness named in the commission that the answees which he shall make to each of the inter­
rogatories propounded to him shall be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.
Each interrogatory, direct and cross. shall be propounded to him, and his answer thereto 
be correctly reduced to writing, and with any exhibit thereto be annexed to and returned
with the commission. Each witness shall subscribe his name at the end of his answers to
the interrogatories, and the commissioner or commissioners shall subscribe his or their names
at the foot of each page of the testimony. If any exhibit is produced and proved, or referred 
to in the answer of any witness, it shall be marked as an exhibit by some convenient desig­
nation, either by letter or number, by th.e commissioners or one of them, and be referred to
in the testimony of the witneu, and shall be annexed to and returned with the deposition. 
If the paper be a record or other document not in the control of the party or the commis­
sioner 1t shall be sufficieut to annex a copy, stated by the witness in his answers to be a true
copy thereof. The commissioner or commissioners shall certify in their return that each
witness was duly sworn or affirmed before gi vin~ his evidence, and shall also state the time
when the·testimony was taken. The return of the commissioner or commissioners shall be 
indorsed on the commission.

SEC. 6. When the answers to all the interrogatories and exhibits 
thereto, if any, shall have been so signed and annexed to the commission upon which the re­
turn shall be indorsed, the proper commissioner shall inclose the same in a suitable envelope,
which shall be properly sealed, and direct the same to the clerk of the court from which the
commission issued, at his place of office, with the title of the action indorsed thereon, and 
thepackage shall be immediately transmitted to him by mail or express.
SEC. 7. Upon the receipt of such package by the clerk of the
oourt he shall indorse the time and manner in which he received the same, and open and file
such deposition, and give notice of the receipt of the same to the attorneys for the respective
parties. 

SEC. 8. Objections to the competency of any answer of a witness, or to the
relevancy thereof, if the same be not responsive to the interrogatory, may be made at any
time before entering upon the trial. 

SEC. 1. Applications to compel either
party to give to the other inspection and copy or permission to take a copy of any books.
papers or documents in his possession or under his control, containing evidence relating to
the merits of the action or the defense therein, may be made by petition duly verified or by
motion, founded on affidavit, in the following cases:
1. By either party to compel the other to give him inspection and a copy
or permission to take a copy of any books, papers or documents in his possession or under his
control which may be necessary to enable the applicant to frame his complaint, answer or
reply, as the case may be, or which shall be material to any application made by him for any
provisional remedy.
2. By either party, after issue joined in any action or proceeding, to compel the other
party to give him inspection and a copy or permission to take a copy of any and all books,
papers or documents in his possession or control on which his action or defense is founded or
which may be necessary to enable the party applying therefor to prepare for trial. 
SEC. 2. The petition or affidavit to obtain such inspection and
copy or permission to take a copy of such books, papers or documents must state that the
1&me are not in the possession or under the control of the applicant, and that he is advised
by his counsel and verily believes that such inspection and copy of such books, papers or doou­
men ts as are therein mentioned is necessary to enable him to frame his complaint, answer or 
reply, or to obtain some provisional remedy, or to prepare for trial, as the case may be, and 


hall state the facts and circumstances relied on to obtain the order for such inspection and
oopy or permission to take a copy of such books. papers or documents. 
SEC. 3. Such application shall be made to the oourt or the presiding judge
thereof, and an order may be made thereon requiring the ad verse party to give such inspection
and a sworn copy or permission to take a copy of such books, papers or document.a, in the man·
ner and time and under the conditions specified therein, or that he show cause before the court
or the presiding judge thereof, at the time and place therein to be mentioned, why he should
not do so, which order, and the petition or affidavit on which the same is founded, shall be 
served on such ad verse party by a certain time previous to the time fixed for showing cause,
to be specified in such order.

SEC. 4. The order to show cause, as well as any order which may be 
made upon the bearing of the same, shall specify the mode in which such inspection and
OOP,,Y or permission to take a copy of any such books, papers or documents shall be given,
which may either be by requiring the party to deliver sworn copies thereof to the applicant
or by requiring him to deposit such books, pa1;>0rs or documents with the clerk of the court
in which the action is pending, or it may be lD such other manner or mode as shall be di·
rected in the order. It shall also specify the time within which such inspection and oopr or
permission to take a copy shall be given; and when books, papers or documents are required
to be deposited with the clerk it shall specify the time the deposit shall continue. The order
may also require that such books, papers or documents shall be produced by the party having
possession or control thereof at the trial of the action.

SEC. 5. The order to show cause, on such application, as well BR the order absolute
made upon showing cause (if any), granting inspection and a copy or permission to take a
copy of any books, papers or documents shall operate as a stay of all other proceedings in
the action of the party against whom it is made until such order shall have been complied
with, vacated or reversed; and the party obtaining such order, after it shall be complied
with, vacated or reversed, shall have the like time to pr~pare bis complaint, answer or reply
or to take any other proceeding in the action to which he was entitled at the time of mak­
ing the order. But the court or the presiding judge thereof, in granting such order, may
limit its effect by declaring therein how far it shall operate as a stay of proceedings. 

SEC. 6. When inspection and a copy or permission to take a copy
of any books, papers or documents shall not he given within the time limited therefor and
no sufficient cause shall be shown for not giving the same the court or the presiding judge
thereof may make such order for dismissing the plaintiff's complaint or striking out his
reply or the defendant's answer as the circumstances of the case may require, and judgment
may be perfected on such order accordingly. 

SEC. 1. When in any action on. contract.
for the payment of monev tender of payment of any sum before action, as the whole sum
due thereon, shall be pleaded, as well as where such tender shall be made ""fter action brought.
with the costs of the action incurred up to the time of malting the same, the party making
such tender shall, if the same be not sooner accepted and paid, pay the same into court
within five days after the service of the pleading alleging the same or within five days after
the same shalt have been made, if made after action commenced, and before the action shall
come on to be tried and deliver to the opposite party or his attorney, within the time afore­
said, a certificate of such clerk, under the seal of the court, stating the amount thereof, the
time when brought into court, the title of the action and by what party and under what
pleading or on what account the same has been so brought in or he shall be deprived of all
benefit or advantaze of such tender and the action shall proceed as if no tender had been made. 

SEC. 2. Such certificate, before being delivered, shall 
be recorded in the minute book of the court and an indorsement be made thereon stating
the volume and page where the same· is so recorded. Payment of money into court under
this rule shall have the same effect and the rights of the parties in respect thereto shall be
the same as heretofore practiced and declared where money has been paid into court under
a common rule or under a judge's order.

SEC. 3. Whenever an order shall have been made in any action
or proceeding for the deposit of any property with the clerk of the court or whenever any
party thereto shall be entitled by law to deposit any property with him, such clerk shall
make out and record in the minute book a certificate of the fact of such deposit entitled in
the action or proceeding, describing the property so deposited, and stating the date of such
deposit, by whom made and under what order or for what purpose, and shall deliver such
certificate to the ~rty making the same, with the volume and page of the record thereof 
lndoreed thereon

