l
8
I •
CHANCERY RULES.
RULE l. Every Solicitor shall have an agent at the county,seat in Every solici-
tor to have each county of this State where a Circuit Court is established, except agents.
in the county where such Solicitor keeps his oihce. The Register,
Deputy Register and practising Solicitors, or any other person spe~
cially authorized by the Court, may be such agents: but the agent
k must have an oliice, or a regular and known place of business, within
A
two miles of the Register's ollice in the city or town for which he is 4
8 appointedagent. The appointment of an agent shall be in writing, How appo' -
4 bed. ln
signed by the solicitor, and specifying his place of residence. It shall
| \ \ be filed with the Register at the place for which the appointment is
\ made, who shall keep in his oliice a list of such agents, with the names
Q
\ and residence of the Solicitors appointing them.
RULE 2. When the Solicitors for adverse parties do not reside in When sen-
vice may be
the same county, service of papers may be made on an agent. If the on the agent
Solicitor does notreside at the place where the court is holden, in the
circuit in which the cause is pending, and has no agent there, service
If no agent,
of a notice or other paper may be made by putting it into the post notices may
1 be sent by
ohice at that place, directed to such Solicitor at his place of residence, m.\il.
to be ascertained according to the best information and belief of the
person making the aiidavit of service. Notice of the Hling of all Notice 0-f
dling Plead»
pleadings shall be given to the adverse party, except when otherwise mga.
provided by these rules, within the time limited for Bling the same.
But no service of notice in the ordinary proceedings in a cause, shall
be necessary to be made on a defendant who has not appeared therein.
RULE 3. When the service is on an agent, or by putting in the post Double time
where ser~ 08% for want of an agent, it must be double the time of service vice is on
agent. which would be requisite if the service was on the Solicitor in person.
,»*
D\gmzed by Google
I
4 CHANCERY RULES.
And if the Solicitor resides more than one hundred miles from the
agent or ofhce where the service is made, the time of such service shall
in no case be less than fifteen days. Notices and other papers may,
Notices and in the absence of a Solicitor or agent from his oflice, be served by
papen, how
served in ca- leaving the same with his clerk or law partner in auch office, or with ses of ab-
lance. a person having charge thereof; and if no person is found in the odice,
by leaving the same, between the hours of six in the morning and nine
in the evening, in a suitable and conspicuous place in such OEM; or
if the ollice be not open so as to admit of service therein, then by leaving
the same at the residence of the Solicitor or agent, with some person
of suitable age and discretion.
RULE 4. All bills and petitions hereafter to be filed in any of the
Address of Circuit Courts, shall be addressed: "To the Circuit Court for the
bills and pe-
titiona. "county of , in Chancery ;" and the caption of decrees shall be
as follows, viz: " State of Michigan, the Circuit Court for the county Caption of
decrees. " of , in Chancery.-At a session of said Court held at , on
" the day of , in the year one thousand eight hundred
" and fifty-
" Presen Hon.
" Circuit Judge."
The caption of orders made by Circuit Court Commissioners shall
be as follows:
Us. tion of " State of Michigan, Judicial Circuit, in Chancery.-
...a;,. " Suit pending in the Circuit Court for the county of , in
a Chancery; at on the day of ,A. D. 185 ,
1 " It is ordered," &c.
RULE 5. In all cases motions shall be made and petitions presen-
Motions to ted on the day for which they are noticed, if the party has an oppor- be made on
the day for tunity to be heard on that day, unless the Court or Circuit Court which they
are noticed. Commissioner shall otherwise direct. And if there is not suiicient
time to finish the business noticed for any day, it may be continued May be con-
tinued. from day to day until it is completed; or it may be adjourned to some
subsequent day. And motions made for a day in term, and which
cannot be heard on the day for which they are noticed, shall stand
continued from day to day, without any special continuance.
Non-resident RULE 6. In all cases where the complainant or complainants are
complain-
ants to give not residents of this State, before process shall issue, a bond in the
security for
coats. penal sum of one hundred dollars shall be Hled with the Register, to
be approved of by him, conditioned to pay all such costs as shall be
"*-._
D\gmzed by Google
r
CHANCERY RULES. 5
decreed against the complainant in such ease; and the Court or the
Circuit Court Commissioner may, upon motion, upon sullicient cause Security
may he re-
shown, require a new bond to be filed, in the same or an additional quired of
rcsidems on
amount; and may also require security where complainants are resi- cause shown.
dents of this State, if the justice of the case demand it.
RULE 7. Bills, in which the answer of the several defendants on Billn to be
sworn to by
oath is not waived, may be verified by the oath of the complainant, complainant
or in ease of his absence from the State, or other sullieient cause
shown, by the oath of his agent, attorney or solicitor.
RULE 8. In bills, answers and petitions which are to be verified by Manner of
verifying
the oath of the party, the several matters stated, charged, averred, bills. an-
swers, irc.
admitted, or denied, shall be stated positively, or upon information or
belief only, according to the fact. The oath administered to the
party shall be, in substance, that he has read the bill, answer or peti- Substance of
the oath to
tion, or has heard it read, and knows the contents thereof, and that be atate¢L in
jurat.
the same is true of his own knowledge, except as to the matters which
are therein stated to be on his information or belief, and. as to those
matters, he believes it to be tme; and the substance of the oath shall
be stated in the jurat
RULE 9. All process, unless otherwise directed, shall be mgde re- Procels.
turnable on a day certain (except Sunday) either in vacation or in
term, not less than ten days from the issuing thereof, and if process
is not executed before the return day, new process may be taken out,
of course, as often as may be necessary, or an alias, or pluries may be
issued .
RULE 10. The names of . all the defendants in a cause shall be in-
serted i 1 the subpoena. It may be served by delivering a copy of the Subpaenu,
how served.
writ subscribed by the complainant, his solicitor, or the ollicer or per-
son serving the same, and inscribed "copy," and showing the original,
under the seal of the court, at the time of such delivery to the de
fendant, or in case of his absence to his wife, or servant, or some
member of his family, at his dwelling-house or place of abode. The
service may be on or before the return day mentioned in the subpoena.
RULE 11. Upon the return of the subpoena served, as directed in Subpaen m
served pro-
the preceding rule, the defendant shall cause his appearance to be en- w~ii»z1-
tered in twenty days from the return day of said writ, and if he does
not require a copyof the bill as hereinafter provided, he shall answer To appear in
twenty dlyl
or demur within the same time, or in default thereof his appearance after return
day of nub~
may be entered by the register and the bill of complaint taken as pam.
r
J'
D\gmzed by Google
6 CHANCERY RULES.
Answer ln confessed. If a. copy of the bill is required he shall answer in twen-
'¥¢Z`§'Lf$`i'éZ ty days from the service of such copy, or the bill may be taken as
of copy of
bm. confessed.
RULE 12. When the subpoena has been personally served, and the
defendant shall fail to appear and plead, answer or demur, within the
time limited for the same, the complainantmay upon liling an amda-
vit that a discovery as to the matters charged in the bill is necessary,
ggggggf and service thereof with notice move the court for an attachment
against such defendant or defendants.
A defendant RULE 13. If the defendant appears personally, or is brought into
";°g§§;g,;° court by the sherill, on the return of an attachment for not appearing
3g\ *°v==. or not answering, he shall enter his appearance or put in his answer,
mfpgyg and pay the costs incurred by his contempt, instanter, or within such
time as the court shall appoint, or be committed until he complies.
gfgegothpf. RULE 14. When the defendant has appeared, he may have *an or~
gecg!dggig§ der of course, that the complainant deliver a copy of the bill to the
mn. defendant or his solicitor in fifteen days, and if such a copy is not de-
livered within ifteen days after the service of notice of such order, or
within such further time as may be allowed for that purpose, the de-
fendant, on filing an affidavit of the service of such notice, and that
no copy of the bill has been served, may have a decree dismissing the
Mt, without costs, for want of prosecution.
RULE 15. If the complainant requires a copy .of the defendant's
answer, he may have an order of course, that he put in his answer,
°°gv¢g§,_-=. and serve a copy thereof in twenty days after notice of the order,and
served.. if the defendant does not file his answer and serve a copy thereof
within the time prescribed in such order, or such further time as may
be allowed him for that purpose, the complainant, on filing an ailidavit
showing the default, may have an order to take the bill as confessed,
or may move for an attachment against him.
Complainant RULE 16. When a bill has been taken pro confesso against a
to 35334 defendant, even although he may have entered his appearance, it shall
§'h§';,i""` not he necessary in any further proceeding in a cause, for the com-
jmo
` plainant to serve such defendant with any of the notices contemplated
hy any of the rules of practice of this court for any object or pur-
pose whatever, but he may proceed ex-parte.
Proceedings RULE 17. The order to take the bill as confessed against an absent
agalnlt ab-
nent or con- or concealed defendant, and for a reference under the provisions of
coded defen-
dantu. chapter ninety, title twenty-one of the revised statutes may be entered
*w • Y
D\gmzed by Google
if
CHAHUEBY RULES. 7
of course, on filing the proof of publication or notice,and an aiiidavit
that the defendant has not appeared. But the order requiring the de-
fendant to appear, and designating the paper in which it shall be pub-
lished, or a direction to the commissioner to receive the testimony of the
complainant as evidence on the reference, can only be obtained by a
special application to the court or circuit court commissioner.
RULE 18. Exceptions to an answer shall not prevent the dissolu-
Exceptions tion of an injunction or the discharge of a ne exeat; but upon every not to pre~
vent dissolu-
application for such dissolution or discharge, made upon answer be- tion of in-
junction, Gu:
fore exceptions are filed, or before the validity of exceptions filed has
been determined, the suiiiciency of the answer in all points material
to the allowance of sgch application, shall be considered in the deci-
sion thereoi
Rum: 19. If the complainant waives the necessity of the answer Waiver of
answer on being made on the oath of the defendant, it must be distinctly stated oath must be
express.
in the bill. When the answer is put in without oath, it may be ex- If the answer
cepted to for scandal and impertinence; but the complainant shall upon oath j
waived, com
plalnult not not be at liberty to except thereto for insuiliciency; but all material to except f r
lnsuEciency. allegations in the bill, which are not answered and admitted, may be.
proved by him in the same manner as if they were distinctly put in
Annie: to bd
issue by the answer; and if no replication is filed, the matters of de- replied m.
fence set up in the defenda.nt's answer, will, on the hearing, be consid-
ered as admitted by the complainant, although the answer is not on
oath.
RULE 20. The plea or answer of the defendant may be sworn to Answers,
before any officer authorized by the laws of this State to administer how to be
verlhed.
oaths or take aliidavits. It may also be sworn to before any Judge
of any Court of record in the United States; but if sworn to before
\ such Judge in any other State or Territory in the United States, his
certificate shall be accompanied by the certificate of the clerk or dep-
uty clerk of such Court under the seal thereof, showing the oiiicial
character of such Judge and the genuineness of his signature. Such
plea or answer may be sworn to in any foreign country before any
Minister or other diplomatic agent or Consul of the ,United States,
or any Notary Public; but the certificate of such Notary shall be The defend-
ant must m- made under his notarial seal. swor the
original bill RULE 21. When a cross bill is filed, the complainants therein who before ho is
entitled tn
are defendants in the original bill, shall put in and perfect their an- order to sn-
swer the
swer to the original bill before they shall be entitled to an order to cross bill.
J D\gmzed by C. ooglé "
•
s CHANOERY RULES.
eompel nn answer to the cross bill, unless the court slmll otherwise
specially direct.
RULE 22. If the bill has not been sworn to, the complainant may
Amend-
munts of amend it, at any time before the plea, answer, or demurrer is put in, of
course to A
bm. when course, and without costs. He may also amend, of course, after an-
Allowed.
swer, at any time before he replies thereto, until the time for reply-
ing expires, and without costs, if a new or further answer is not
thereby rendered necessary; but if such amendment requires a new
or a further answer, then it shall be on payment of costs to be taxed.
He may also amend sworn bills, except injunction bills, in the same
manner, if the amendments are merely in addition to and not incon-
sistent with what is contained in the original bil; such amendments
being verified by oath, as the bill is required to be verified. But no
Amend-
ments not of amendment of an injunction bill shall be allowed without a special
course in in-
junction bill. order of the court, and upon due notice to the adverse party, if he
Amend- has appeared in the suit. Amendments of course, may be made with- m&nts of
c rue to be out entering any rude or order for that purpose; but the registers made mh-
out entering
m order. shall not permit any amendments to be made, unless the same appear
to be duly authorized. And in every ease of an amendment of course, The manner
l n w h ic h
amendment! the oomplainant's solicitor shall either file a new engrossment of the
Are to be
made. bill w-ith the register where the original bill is filed, or furnish him
with an engrossed copy of the amendments, containing the proper ref-
erences to the folios and line, in the original bill on Iile, where such
Service of af amendments are to be inserted or made. But no amendment shall
mendmentl,
when neces- be considered as made, until the same is served upon the adverse
sary.
party, if he has appeared in the cause.
Amend- RULE 23. If the defendant demurs to the bill for want of parties,
ments of
course ln£l or for any other defect which does not go to the equity of the whole
demurrar. bill, the complainant may amend of course, on payment of costs, at
any time before the demurrer is noticed for argument, or within ten
days after the receiving a copy of the demurrer; and in all cases of
demurrer for causes not within the former part of this rule, the com-
plaina,nt's right to amend, and the terms on which amendments may
be permitted, shall be in the discretion of the court.
Amendmenta RULE 24. Where the answer is excepted to as insuficient, and the
allowed after
insulhcient defendant submits to answer further, or the answer on referencé is
m- \l'»
found insuiioient., the complainant may amend the bill of course, and
without costs, at any time Within ten days after the defendant, sub-
af
'I D\gmzed by Google
ii
CHANGERY RULES. 9
mite to answer any of the exceptions, or after coniirmation of the
Commissionefs report, if the defendant does not submit to answer any
of the exceptions; and the defendant shall answer the amendment and.
exceptions together. If a plea or demurrer to the bill be overruled,
1
the complainant may within ten days thereafter amend his bill of §'§;'3{; '=;
course, and without costs; and in all cases where the complainant is 3, -=<\ _;;;
permitted to amend his bill, if the answer has not been put in, or a "§°,,'§. do-
further answer is necessary, the defendant shall have the same time °v°m1°d'
to answer, after such amendment as he originally had. But no
amendments of course of injunction bills, are to be allowed under this
or the preceding mle, nor any amendments which are inconsistent with
the original sworn bill.
RULE 25. Orders to which a party, by the rules and practice of the Common or-
court, is entitled of course without showing special cause, shall be de i'22'.?£°" ob-
nominated common orders; and orders made on special application to
'the court, or circuit court commissioner, shall be denominated special
orders All common orders and orders by consent of the parties, such
consent being in writing. and signed by such parties or their solici-
tors and filed, may be entered with the register, in the common rule
book kept in his olhce, at the instance of the party or his solicitor, at the
peril of the party taking such order; and the day on which the order is
made shall be noted in the entry thereof, and all special orders made by Orders ol
the special direction of the court,or circuit court commissioner, shall 00 ,g-1 - __ -;-1
be entered in the record of the proceedings of the court as here- *md*
tofore has been usual.
RULE 26. When the defendant pleads or demurs to a bill, the com- Egg*-;-;;;_
plainant shall have twenty days to file a replication to his plea, or P13 gg;
amend his bill, and if he does not take issue on the plea or amend argument.
the bill within that time, either party may note the plea or demurrer
for argument, at the next or any subsequent term. If the plea is allowed,
the complainant may within ten days after notice of such allowance,
take issue on the plea, upon payment of the costs of hearing thereon.
RULE 27. If a plea or demurrer is overruled as frivolous, or a plea Ifldefend-
upon issue thereon is found to be untrue, the complainant may mins ?3.32, 'Hy
the Court otherwise direct, have an order to take the bill as confessed, f1°°"F"' ,"
or he may compel the defendant to answer the bill, at his election. »°_#;_§;g,.--
In all other cases, if the plea or clemurrer be ovenuled, neither a
further plea nor demurrer shall be received; and the defendant shall
answer the bill and pay the costs of the hearing, within twenty days
2
J*
D\gmze ,yGoo3Ie
10 CHANCERY RULES.
Afteraplea after notice of the order overniling the plea or demurrer, or such
of demurrer _ _ _
1;0 r:p1eg other tune as may be prescribed by the Court m such order. If he
aps gn th- fails toput in his answer and pay the costs within the time prescribed
days. the bill may be taken as confessed,and the matter thereof decreed
accordingly; or the complainant may have an attachment to compel
an answer.
Exceptions RULE 28. When the answer is to the whole bill, the complainant
begl yin shall have twenty days, after notice that such answer is put in, to ex-
oept to the same, or if the answer is to part of the bill only, he shall
have twenty days after the plea or demurrer to the residue of the bill
has been allowed or overruled, to except to such answer; at the ex-
piration of which time, if no exceptions are taken, and no order for
further time has been granted, the answer shall be deemed sullicient.
mi age it If the complainant excepts to the answer for insuilieiency, the defend-
*;,, 073,5 ant may within eight days after service of a copy of the exceptions,
exceptions. give a written notice of his submission to answer any or all of such'
exceptions; and he shall be liable for the costs of the exceptions
which he submits to answer. a
Uomplninang RULE 29. When exceptions to an answer for insuiiciency are not
to refer the
excep ti ons submitted to within the time prescribed by the preceding rude, the
ln ten days.
complainant at any time within ten days thereafter, may have an order
of course to refer-the exceptions not submitted to by the defendant
to a Circuit Court Commissioner. If the exceptions not submitted
to are not referred and notice of such reference given within the
time speciied, they shall be considered as abandoned, and the answer
as to such exceptions shall be deemed suiiicient.
On reference RULE 30. If a. complainant refers a second or third answer for in-
of second or
ihird answer suliiciency on the old exceptions,-the particular exceptions to which the excep-
tions to be he requires a further answer shall be stated on the order of reference stated.
And if he does not refer such second or third answer for insuliiciency
I within ten days after the same is put in, such answer shall be deemed
suilicient.
Exception: RULE 31. Exceptions to any pleading, or other matter pending be
for scandal
or imperti~ fore the court for scandal and impertinence, shall be taken in the
nance, how
to be tsken. same manner as exceptions to an answer for insuiliciency; and maybe
submitted to in like manner, and within the same time. If they are
not submitted to, the party excepting shall refer them in the same
manner, or they shall be considered as abandoned; and if such excep-
tions are to an answer, the answer thenoeforth shall be deemed sudioient.
D\gmzed by Google
it
1 CHANCERY RULES. ll
RULE 32. Whenever an answer or other pleading or proceeding is Uomminion-
referred for insulliciency, scandal or impertinence, the exceptions shall §§1'°£§"
be considered as abandoned, if the party Obtaining the reference shall l>io:btail;_ed
not procure and file the Commissioner's reportwvithin fifteen days from lmhiiays.
the date of the order of reference 3 unless the Commissioner shall, within
that time, certify that the Party obtaining such reference has not been
guilty of an unreasonable delay, and that further time, to be specified
in the certificate, is necessary to enable the Commissioner to make a sat-
isfactory report; in which case the exceptions shall be considered as
abandoned, if the report be not obtained within the further time so
stated. And if the exceptions were to an answer, it shall thenceforth
be deemed suliicient.
RULE 33. If on a reference of exceptions to an answer, or the ref- °;'1'F," ,§"§§°=°
erence of a second answer on the old exceptions, the Commissioner shall §gr,»¥3;;¢
find the answer insuilicient, he shall fix a time for putting in afurther answer.
answer, and specify the same in his report.
RULE 34. The Commissioner's report on exceptions, shall be delivered Report w
to the party obtaining the reference, who shall forthwith file the same i`§€§§§°e?§'§'3'
in the proper oliice; and if he does not except to the report within days.
eight days thereafter, it shall become absolute as against him. But
the adverse party shall have eight days after service of notice of Bling
the report to except to the same; and if he does not except within
that time, it shall become absolute as against him, without any order
for that purpose. If none of the exceptions to an answer are submit-
ted to by the defendant,or allowed by the Commssioner, the answer shall
be deemed sullicient from the time such report becomes absolute as
against the complainant.
RULE 35. Ifthe Commissioner reports that any thing contained in any
pleading or proceeding is scandalous or impertinent, the party ex-
cepting on filing proof that the report has become absolute against the
adverse party, may have an order of course, that the Commissioner mak- gs ,Z 2° ex-
ing the report, expunge the scandalous or impertinent matter; and '.1I'I{'223""
that the adverse party pay the costs of the exceptions and the pro-
ceedings thereon, within twenty days after the service of a copy of
such order and of the taxed bill on him or his solicitor. When the
adverse party submits to the exceptions, the same order may be ob- Commission-
tamed on Hling the notice of submission. If the Commissioner disallows §§;§,§;g?,';"
an exception for scandal and impertinence, his report shall be final, and §;'§°P"'g,';;°,
i i »
no exceptlons to the report m that respect shall be allowed; but lt ¢Z"»»'§l'3"
al
,4
D\gmzed by Google
12 CHANCERY RULES.
shall not preclude the party upon the hearing of the cause, or upon the
taxation of the general costs in the suit, from insisting that the mat-
ter excepted to was in fact impertinent.
Order for s RULE 36. On exceptions to answer for insulhciency, if all the ex-
further ua-
nm. ceptions are Submitted to by the defendant, or a part are submitted
to, and the rest abandoned,or are disallowed on reference, the com-
plainant may have an order, of course, that the defendant put in a
further answer and serve a copy thereof within twenty days after no-
tice ofthe order, and pay the costs of the exceptions.
Order for RULE 37. If, on a reference of exceptions, or the reference of a further an-
nrer aft er second answer upon the old exceptions, the answer is found insulhcient reference.
and the Co1nmissioner's report has become absolute against the defend-
ant, the complainant may have a similar order of course, to put in a
further answer, and pay the costs, within the time specified in the
Commissioner's report.
Costs to be RULE 39. In the cases specified in the two preceding rules, the de- served ten
dsyp before fendant shall be entitled to a copy of the taxed bill of costs at least expiration
of time to
answer. ten days before the time for putting in the further answer expires, or
he may put in such answer without paying the costs. But the com-
plainant may afterwards proceed by execution or attachment to com-
pel payment thereof, if they are not paid within twenty days after
service of a copy of the taxed bill on the defendant or his solicitor.
After amend And if the complainant has amended his bill, so as to require an an-
ment deft to
have nme swer to the amendments as well as the exceptions, the defendant shall
time to an-
nor. have the same time to answer the amendments and exceptions together,
as he originally had to answer the bill; and the order to answer shall
be varied accordingly.
Order to RULE 40. If the defendant does not put in a further answer and
take bill ll
confessed pay the costs within the time prescribed, or within such further time
for neglect
to answer as may be allowed by the court for that purpose, the complainant, on fur8her.
filing an ailidavit showing such defaudt, may have an order of course,
to take the bill as confessed, or may move for an attachment against
the defendant.
RULE 41. The argument of exceptions to a Commissioner report on
Exceptions
to ¢ report exceptions shall be heard as a special motion. Either party may notice
on exoept'ns
to be heard the same for hearing, and the party excepting to the report shall fur-
u special
motion, nish the necessary papers for the court; and if he neglect to do so,
the report may be confirmed. But if both parties have excepted to
the report, each shall furnish copies of his own exceptions, and the
1
D\gmzed by Google
CHANCERY RULES.
party obtaining the reference shall furnish such other papers as may
be necessary. The costs of the hearing on exceptions to a report Costs of the
hearing of
upon exceptions shall be in the discretion of the court, but neither exceptions
to be repor-
party Shall be entitled to costs as against the other, unless he suc- ted.
ceeds as to the major part of the exceptions to the report. And
where the party succeeding as to the major part does not succeed as
to all the exceptions to the report, his costs of the hearing, to be al-
lowed against the adverse party, shall not be taxed at a sum exceed-
ing ten dollars.
RULE 42. When exceptions are taken to an answer for insutliciency, Costs of ref-
erence not
or to any pleading or proceeding for scandal or impertinence, the to be allowed
unless all of
party excepting shall be entitled to the costs of the exceptions which tHe excep-
tions are sus-
tained. are submitted to, and those which are finally allowed after reference to
a. Commissioner, but neither party shall be entitled to costs upon the
reference of exceptions unless he finally succeeds as to all the exceptions
which are referred. The costs on exceptions shall not be taxed until
all exceptions are submitted to, abandoned, allowed, or finally disposed
of, and then the whole costs to which the exceptant is entitled shall
Costs inclu-
be included in one bill, and the adverse party may olfset any costs to ded in one
bill , offset.
which he is entitled.
RULE 43. No demurrer or plea shall be held bad, and overruled Demurrer
and plea not
upon argument, only because such demurrer or plea shall not cover so to be over-
ruled for not
much of the bill as it might by law have extended to.--(Rule 36, U. COV8l`iD§ as
much o said
bill as it S. Cir. Court.) might.
RULE 44. No demurrer or plea shall be held bad and overruled Demurrer af.
plea, not to be
upon argument only because the answer of the defendant may extend overruled be-
cause answer
to some part of the same matter, as may be covered by such demur- extends to
some matter
covered by rer or plea.--(Rule 37, U. S. Cir. Court.) plea or de-
murrer. RULE 45. A defendant shall be at liberty, by answer, to decline
Def't at lib-
answering any interrogatory, from answering which he might have pro- erty to de-
cline answ'g
interrogato- tected himself by demurrer, and he shall be at liberty so to decline, ries to which
he might notwithstanding he shall answer other parts of the bill from which have de-
murred. he might have protected himself by demurrer.-(Rule 44, U. S. Cir.
Court.)
RULE 46. It shall not be necessary on any bill of revivor or Sup- Not necesla-
ry to set
plemental bill to set forth any of the statements in the original suit forth revivor
and su le-
unless the special circumstances of the case require it.-(Rule 58, U. menf&{)giu§,
S. Cir. Court.)
*in f
D\gmzed C-oogle * .
'a
4
14 CHANCERY RULES.
0mse at is- RULE 47. Every cause shall be deemed at issue on filing a general
;g,,1,g;',{'"°¢ replication to the answer, and no special replication shall be filed but
Oauseto by leave on cause shown. If the complainant doesnot reply to the
§8?£fM defendant's answer within twenty days after it is deemed to be suiii-
i.§\§3i}l'30 cient, he shall be precluded from replying, and the cause Shall stand
for hearing on bill and answer; and either party may notice it for
hearing as soon as it is in readiness for hearing against the other de
fendants, if any there are.
Ir complain- RULE 48. In any suit against several defendants, if the complain- '
ant 3§Z'¢'*8' ant does not use due diligence in .prosecuting such suit, any of Said
§fy%"&§'- defendants may apply to dismiss the bill for want of prosecution, and
mime on such application, further time shall not be allowed to complainant,
unless on good cause shown for the delay.
fgotgk eed e RULE 49. When a cause is at issue, if neither party has given no-
mony. tice as contemplated by law, of his intention to claim the right of an
examination of witnesses in open court, either party desirious of ta-
king testimony, may at any time within thirty days after the expira-
tion of the time of claiming the right to such examination in open
Order totake court, enter an order of course, and give notice thereof to the opposite
proofs.
P art y for the takin g of testimon y within sixt y da y s from the service
of notice of such order, and either party under such order, may at
Proofs be any time within the said sixty days take the testimony of hiswit-
333° sixty nesses, upon giving ten day's notice to the opposite party, of the names
and places of abode of the witnesses to be examined, and of the time
and P lace of such examination and the 7 P erson before whom the same
Proofs to be will be taken. At the end of the said sixty days, either party, on
¥, *°3i'§,'}m; filing an aiiidavit of the service or receipt of such notlce, may enter
dateo o er
an order of course, that the proofs be closed. If neither party shall
Iforderfor taking obtain an order for takin g testimon y as aforesaid 7 or 81 'vin g notice of
g§`;1§$¢3j" his intention of claiming an examination of witnesses in open court,
causeto stand for the cause shall stand for hearin' g on P leadin . g s > and ma Y be noticed
Q i by either party.
May appoint RULE 50. If a party wishes to examinewitnesses residing out of
9" mon the State, or more than thirty miles from the residence of a Circuit
Court Commissioner, or when all the Circuit Court Commissioners
are interested, living within that distance, as counsel or otherwise,
either party may, at any time after issue is joined, and before proofs
are closed, as prescribed in the preceding rule, present a petition to
the register where the suit is pending stating the names and residen-
D\gmzed by Google
l
CHANCERY RULES. 15
ces of the witnesses and of the person or persons proposed as com-
missioners, and praying that a commission may be issued to take the
examination of such witnesses; and ten day's notice of the applica-
tion shall be given to the adverse party. If the adverse party does
not appear and join in the commission, or object to the persons named
as commissioners, a commission shall be issued agreeably to the prayer
of the petition.
RULE 51. If the adverse party wishes to join in commission, he £,"€'.?'§,°,., 1>;_*,§
must at the time of presenting the petition, furnish the names and res~ ;',;g§§,g§.
idence of the witnesses on his part, and they shall be inserted in the
commission. If he is not satished with the commissioners named
in the petition he may name Commissioners on his part; and the
register to whom the petition is presented, after hearing the allega-
tions of the parties, shall designate a suitable person or persons, to
execute the commission, and issue the same accordingly, but any of
the commissioners named in the commission may execute the same,
in case the others neglect or refuse to join in the execution thereof,
or they are, from any cause, prevented.
RULE 52. Witnesses to be examined out of the State, shall be ex-
amined on written, direct, and cross interrogatories, to be allowed by
a Circuit Court Commissioner and annexed to the commission. How to pro-
h
RULE 53. If lt shall be necessary to have a comrmssxon to take the g¢ |:lrynw
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ examine wit-
exammation of witnesses ln any case not provided ln the preceding nesses-
rudes,the party may present a petition to the Circuit Judge, or Circuit
Court Commissioner, acting as an injunction master for that purpose,
setting out the facts which entitle him toa special commission, and
the usual notice of the application shall be given to the adverse party.
RULE 54. To every commission, for the examination of witnesses g3' .I1'f°,;;,
out of the State, a copy of this rule shall be annexed as instructions 33333.-M
to the commissioner on the execution of the commission.
lst. Any one of the commissioners may execute the commission:
2d. The witness before he is examined, must take an oath or allir~
mation to be administered by the commissioner, that the answers to
be given by him to the interrogatories annexed to the commission,
shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
8d. The examination of the witness must be reduced to writing by
the commissioner or by some one in his presence, and under his di-
rection, and must be signed by the witness, and certified by the com~
missioner, as follows:
I
D\gmzed by Google
16 CHANOERY RULES.
" Examination taken, reduoed to writing, and sworn to (or allirmed)
this day of , A. D. , before me, A. B., oom-
missioner."
4th. Exhibits must be annexed to the deposition of the witness and
be signed by him and the commissioner.
5th. The commissioner must subscribe each sheet of the deposition,
annex the deposition and exhibits to the commission, and endorse his
return on the back of the commission.
"The execution of this commission appears in certain schedules
hereunto annexed. A. B. Commissioner.
6th. The commissioner must enclose the commission, interrogato-
ries, depositions and exhibits in a packet, and bind it with tape, and
set his seal at the several meetings or crossings of the tape, and di-
rect it " To the register of the Circuit Court for the county of
, in Chancery, at , State of Michigan."
7th, He must then deposit the commission in the post oHice,nn1ess
there are written directions on the commission to return the same in
another way.
Oommis- RULE 55. The register, on the commission being returned shall
dom to be
orened md open it, and endorse thereon the time and manner of receiving it, and
B ad by reg-
mu. then Elo it.
Dernitlon RULE 56. No deposition will be suppressed on the hearing of a
no to be
supgreued cause for irregularity or informality in the taking of the same, but
on eating.
Degosltions the question must be brought before the court on a special motion for to e mp-
pressed on that purpose, before the cause is brought to a hearing. auch) mo-
on. RULE 57. When a party wishes to examine a defendant as a wit-
Order for the
examination ness against a co-defendant, or against the complainant, he may, at
of a party as
4 vritneu. any time within twenty days after he has received or served a notice
of the rude to produce witnesses, pn filing an ailidavit that such-de-
fendant is a material witness, and is not interested in a matter to
which he is to be examined, have an order of course, for the exam-
ination of such defendant as a witness, as to any matter in which he
is not interested, subject to all just exceptions. And such defendant
Evidence shall thereupon be examined to such matters, in the same manner as my be ob-
octod at the other witnesses; but the adverse party, at the hearing, may object to esring.
the competency of his testimonyf
Doedl to. to
'bo made ex- RULE 58. Documents which are of themselves evidence without
mm, nic- further proof; shall not be read on the hearing, unless they have been
D\gmzed by Google
fr
CHANOERY RULES. 17
made exhibits, before the commissioner; and no deed or other writing p:§. s»paa=.|3¢
shall be proved at the hearing except on an order previously obtained f_}_,§;*§,';'¢'
after due notice to the adverse party. permission.
RULE 59. Process of subpoena to compel the attendance of witnesses B,,,,,,,,,, fc
before a. Commissioner shall issue of oourse,and the time and place { '2.'I`¢'l. 7's$"f
of attendance shall be specilied in the writ; and such witnases may witnesses.
be punished if they fail to attend and submit to an examination. But
no witness shall be compelled to appear before the Commissioner
more than forty miles from his place of residence, unless by special
order of the Court.
RULE 60. Within ten days after notice of the order to close the unmann-
proofs, the Commissioner, on being applied to for that purpose by ;;;"1;_d;g;;_.
either party, shall cause the depositions and exhibits, taken or pro- i~;,;;"=g;v,;
duced before him, to be returned and filed with the register, And he '§'81'l3"'
shall not be entitled to receive pay for taking any depositions, or
making any exhibits, which are not returned and filed with the pro-
per odicer, within ten days after service of a notice of such order.
Neither shall a copy of any deposition or exhibit be read on the
hearing, unless the original has been returned and Hled in the proper
oiiioe.
RULE 61. An order to enlarge the time for the examination of Order: so
witnesses may be granted, on suiiicient cause shown, without notice ;;;__ '2'¥.7f»"_;
fo the adverse party; but an ex parte order shall not be granted af- duco witnes-
fer the time for the examination of witnesses has actually expired,
nor shall a second order be granted to the same party, except on the
usual notice of the application to the adverse party, and upon such
terms as the Court may prescribe.
RULE 62. After the proofs are closed, either party may notice the llthurp-ty
cause for hearing at the next or some subsequent term. It shall not , '3;f;°"°3,x
be necessary in any case to obtain an order to set a cause down for hearing.
»heari.ng; but when a cause is in readiness for hearing, on plea or de#
murrer, bill and answer, pleading and proofs, exceptions to a Com-
missioner's report, or on the equity reserved, either party may notice
the same for hearing and have the cause entered on the calendar of
causes for the term.
RULE 63. All notices of hearing, or of special motions, or of the Kotiaol, u.
presenting of petitions, when required, shall be notices of at least
eight days, if the solicitor of the adverse party resides over one hun-
3
D\gmzed by Google
18 CHANCEBY RULES.
dred miles from .the place where the court is to be held; if over fifty
and not exceeding one hundred, six days notice shall' be given; and in
all other cases, at least four days. And a. copy of the petition, aBi~
davit or certificate, on which any special application is founded,sha1l
be served on the adverse party the same length of time previous to
making the application to the Court.
2:533 5 RULE 64. When a cause is submitted or heard, on bill, answer and
nlwiin8s. replication, or on the pleadings and proofs, if the parties do not agree
upon a. case to be signed by them, containing, with all requisite brevi~.
ty, a. statement of the pleadings and proofs, the complainant shall
furnish the Court with a case, stating the time of Hling the bill, and
of the answer and other pleadings respectively, the names of the origi-
nal parties in full, the change of parties, if any has taken place pend-
ing the suit, and a very brief history of the proceedings in the cause;
and containing an abbreviation of the pleadings, not exceeding one~
sixth of the number of folios contained in the original pleadings re-
spectively.
g';1°;&';;=gd RULE 65. In making up the calendar, causes to be heard on bills
3h133 ,,°;"=°= taken as confessed, shall have a preference, and shall be entered accord-
heard. ing to priority, from the date of the order to take the bill as con-
fessed. Pleas and demurrers shall constitute the second class of
causes, and have priority from the time when the plea or demurrer
was filed. Causes to be heard on bill and answer, shall occupy the
third place on the calendar, and have priority from the time when the
answer was put in. Those which are to be heard on the pleadings, or
on pleadings and proofs, shall form the fourth class, and have priori-
ty from the time when the replication was Bled. Causes to be heard
on exceptions, or upon the equity reserved in a decretal order, shall
be placed in the class to which they belonged before the decretal or-
der or reference,and according to their priority as it then existed;
and causes for rehearing shall be arranged in the same manner. But
the court, in the hearing of the calendar causes, may, in its discretion,
give a preference to any particular cause, or description of causes,
over others in the calendar. And mortgage cases of the fourth class
shall be entitled to a preference over any other causes of the same
class, unless the defendant, before the cause is heard, shall file with the
register, an ailldavit that he has a good and meritorious defence,and that
his answer was not put in for the purpose of delay; the filing of which
allidavit he shall have noted on the calendar.
D\gmzed by Google
4'
CHANOERY RULES. 19
Bunn 86. Causes shall be noticed for hearing for the first day of Ummm shall
the term, or for as early a day in term as practicable. The notice to 383§2
the register specifying the class to which the cause belongs, and the My of term.
time from which it is entitled to priority, shall be delivered to the
register, who is to make the calendar, four days previous to the com-
mencement of the term. But if the cause is not in readiness for
hearing in time to notice it for the first day in term, it may be placed
at the foot of the calendar; and if the bill has been taken as confessed,
may be heard out of its regular order.
RULE 67. When a cause is heard or submitted on plea or demur- Paperltobe
rer, or on bill and answer, (except in mortgage or partition causes, €¥.§"§.'§lZ1"»¢.
where the complainant's rights are not contested,) the Court shall be
furnished with copies of the pleadings, and an abbreviation thereof
not exceeding one-sixth of the number of folios contained in the orig-
inals. _ If it is heard on bill, answer and replication, or on pleadings
and proofs, in addition to the case required by the sixty-fourth rule,
the court shall be furnished with copies of the pleadings and of the
depositions,if any, and with short abstracts of the exhibits. On a
rehearing, a copy of the decree or order. reheard, shall be furnished, Ou s reizecr-
ing. and copies of the pleadings, abstracts, case, depositions, &c., on which
the same was founded. Upon exceptions to a Commissioner's report,
copies of the order of reference, report, and exceptions, and of such
part of the evidence before the Commissioner, and of the pleadings
as are material for the decision of the exceptions, shall be furnished.
And in all cases the necessary papers shall be delivered to the Court,
when the hearing of the cause shall commence.
RULE 68. If the cause is heard or submitted on plea or clemurrer, B! whcmplf'
or on exception to a Commissioneis report, or on a rehearing, the ne- g;';u=;;,_*;_>_d
eessary papers shall be furnished by the party pleading, demurring, or
excepting, or who obtained the rehearing. In all other cases the pa~
pers Shall be furnished by the complainant; except that on an origi-
nal hearing upon pleading and proofs, each party shall furnish copies
of the testimony and abstracts of the exhibits on his part only. And
each party shall deliver to the Cow and to the adverse party, a copy
of the points on which he relies; and may also deliver to the Court
and to the adverse party, a draft of the minutes of the decree to
which he conceives himself entitled.
RULE 69. All bills, answers and other proceedings, and oopiel
D\gmzed by Google
gg CHANCEBY RULES-
Pl to thereof, shall be fairly and legibly written, and if not so M the be Mg y
writ n md
oomplnin- register, shall not 81e such as may be offered to him for that purpose;
Ant'| name
to be pllce& and in the entitling and endorsement of papers by either party, the.
int in anti-
tling md on- oomp1ainant's name shall be placed first.
darling.
mfmls xt RULE 70. If the cause is noticed for the hearing on the part of the
the hearing. defendant, and the complainant does not appear to argue on his part,
or does not furnish the necessary papers, agreeably to the preceding
rules, the bill may be dismissed with costs. If noticed on the part of
the complainant, and the defendant does not appear at the hearing,
and furnish the necessary papers on his part, the complainant may
have such decree as he is entitled to by the defendant's default, ac-
cording to the usual course and practice of the court.
The mums: RULE 71. All submissions shall be in writing, signed by the necea
nf submit-
ins mm. sary parties or their solicitors, and shall be delivered to the register
with the necessary 'copies and papers. On special motions and peti-
tions, as well as in calendar causes, he shall mark the papers and note
them in his minutes, as on a hearing; and he shall not enter the sub-
mission until all the necessary copies and papers are furnished, as re
quired by the rules of the Court.
Reguhtionl RULE 72. When a matter is referred to a Commisdoner, to exam-
of the pro-
ceedings in ine and report thereon, on bringing thedecree or order into his ollice, the Oommil-
sions:"| of- he shall assign a day and place for hearing the parties, and give to tice.
the party bringing in such decree or order, a summons for the adverse
party to attend at the day and place so appointed. The summons
'llmo of lm shall be served on the adverse party or his solicitor, such time,previous
vice of the
»nmm°n|» to the day appointed for hearing,as the Commissioner may deem reason-
able and direct, taking into consideration the nature of the matter to
be examined, and the residence of the parties. But the time of ser-
vice, unless otherwise ordered by the Court, shall not be less than
two days, when the solicitor of the adverse party resides in the city
or town where the hearing is to take place; and not less than four
days, when he resides elsewhere not exceeding fifty miles from the
place of hearing; not less than six days, if over fifty and not exceed
ing one hundred miles; and not less than eight days, when he resides
more than one hundred miles from the place of hearing.
Pu-ty mti- RULE 73. If the party who is entitled to prosecute such decree, or
tled to pras-
ocmte m or- order of reference, does not procure and serve such summons within
der of Mm
sum £0 ro- thirty days after the decree or onder is entered, any other party or
coed in &¢.~
ty °llyl~ person interested in the matter of reference shall be at liberty to ap-
D\gmzed by Google
*Y
GHANCERY RULES. 21
plyto the court, by motion or petition, to expedite the prosecution of
thedecree or order; and after the proceedings have been commnced,
by the service of a summons to attend before the Commissioner, if the
\ puty entitled to prosecute such decree or order does not proceed with
due diligence, the Commissioner shall be at liberty, upon the appl.ica~
tion of any other person interested, either as a party to the suit, or as
oomingin to prove his debt, or establish a claim under the decree or
order, to commit to him the prosecution of the reference.
RULE 74. At the time and place appointed in the summons for the Oommiulol~
hearing the pmieg the Commissioner shall proceed to regulate, as 38
far as may be, the manner of its execution; as, for example, to state 8?¢?&" 3
what parties are entitled to attend future proceedings, to direct the ;"z,°:::af'.-
necessary notices, andw point out which of the several proceedings
may properly be going on WM pasm; and as to what particular mat-
interrogatories for the examination of the parties appear to be
necessary ; and whether the matters requiring evidence shall be proved
by WMM or by the examination of witnesses ; and if the Commissioner
think it expedient so to do, he may then, or upon any subse-
quent attendance, and from time to time, as circumstances may re
quire, & the time within or at which any proceedings before himshall °&"".3?, 'gg
be had; and he may proceed de die in diem, or by adjournment from ::%"; °
to time, as he may think proper.
RULE 75. Where, by any decree or order of the Court, books, pa- Commission-
pers or writings, are directed to be produced before the Commissioner §{;,'3{,,'1§;_
for the purpose of such decree or order, it shall be in the discretion of 35- '&',"\..
the Commissioner to determine what books, papers or writings, are to produced.
be produced, and when and for how long they are to be left in his
oEce, or, in case he shoudd not deem it necessary that they shoudd be
left or deposited in his ollice, then he may give directions for the in-
spection thereof by the parties requiring the same, at such time and
in such manner as he may deem expedient.
RULE 76. Where some, or one, but not all, of the parties, do at- Iflomeof
tend the Commissioner nt the time and place appointed, the Commis- 44 2.
sinner shall be at liberty to proceed ex parte, if he thinks it expedi- U0lzzilu| -
ent so to do, considering the nature of the case; and if he has pro-
ceeded ex .pa¢te,such proceeding shall not in any manner be reviewed
by him, unless, upon special application to him for that purpose, by
the party who was absent, the Commissioner shall be satisfied such s
party was not guilty of wilful delay or negligence, and then only
D\gmzed by Google
1
aa CHANCEBY RULES.
upon payment of all costs occasioned by his nomattendanoe; and such
cost to be oertified by the Commissioner at the time and paid by the
party or his solicitor, before he shall be permitted to proceed on the
warrant to review; and every summons to attend before a. Commis-
sioner shall be considered peremptory.
Oommlulon- RULE 77. The Commissioner shall be at liberty to examine my
ur my take
testimony of witness or party, or any creditor or other person coming in to claim
witnesses
upon inter- before him,either upon written interrogatories or viva 'voce, or in both
:og-won-ian
wntten or modes, as the nature of the case may appear to him to require; the onll , in
his ¢fw examination or evidence being taken down at the time by the Com- lion.
missioner, or by his clerk in his presence, and preserved, in order that
the same may be used by.the court if necessary.
A Commis- RULE 78. If a party wishes to complain of any matter introduced
sioner m|.y
anmine mat into any state of facts, aiiidavit, or other proceeding before the Com-
ten excepted
W. missioner, on the ground that it is scandalous or impertinent, or that
any examination of a party before him is insuiiicient, such party shall
be at liberty to file exceptions thereto with the Commissioner; and
the Commissioner shall have authority to expunge any such matter
which he shall ind to be scandalous or impertinent. And where the
. matter is excepted to as scandalous or impertinent, if the, Commis-
Ifa Commis- sioner disallows the exceptions, his decision thereon shall be inal as
doner disal-
lou excep- to the exceptions which are disallowed; but this shall not preclude tions, his de-
ciaion shall the party from insisting upon the impertinence at the hearing of the be :mu aa w
the excep-
tions. cause,or upon any subsequent proceeding founded on the Commis-
sioner'8 report upon the reference, or upon the taxation of the gene
ral costs of the cause, or of the reference. And in deciding on the
memuay suiliciency or insuliiciency of the examination of a party, or of an an-
ot the mat-
ter to be tu- swer to a bill, the Commissioner shall always take into consideration ken into con-
ddemtion. the relevancy or materiality of the statement or question referred to
Parties to be in the exception. On exceptions to the 0on1missioner's report, or to
c onflned to
objections his certificate of the suiliciency or insufliciency, of the examination,
taken before
the Oommia - the parties shall he coniined to the objections taken before the Com-
sioner.
missioner.
Accounts be - RULE 79. All parties accounting before a Commissioner, shall
fore the Oom
miuioner to bring in their accounts in the form of debtor and creditor; and any
be in ¢h e
form of debt- of the other parties who shall not be satisfied with the accounts so
or md credi-
tor. brought in, shall be at liberty to examine the accounting party upon
' interrogatories as the Commissioner may direct. On any referenoe
to take or state an account, the Commissioner shall be at libaty to
D\gmzed by Google
-1'
CHANCERY RULES. 23
allow interest as shall be just and equitable, without any special di- °;',,,_,"1§';,';;
reotion for that purpose, unless a contrary direction is contained in '"*ff:§?3
the order of reference. And every charge, discharge, or state of i.:1¢ii'°°.
fae, brought in before a Commissioner shall be verified, by oath, as g3;,j3~ 8
true, either positively, or upon information and belief ¥b°3W&
RULE 80. In all matters referred to a Commissioner, he shall be Commission-
at liberty, upon the application of any party interested, to make a sep# §Z e"°
arate report or reports,from time to time, as he shall deem expedient; port
the costs of such separate reports to be in the discretion of the court.
And where the Commissioner shall make a separate report of debts
or legacies, he shall be at liberty to make such certificate as he thinks
it, with respect to the state of assets; and any person interested shall
thereupon be at liberty toapply to the court as he shall be advised.
. 'RULE 81. After the report is filed, either party may have an order Order tocon-
of course to confirm the same, unless cause to the contrary thereof lirmreport.
be shown in eight days after notice of its being Hled; and if no ex-
ceptions are filed and served within that time, the order shall become
absolute of course, without fmher order; or either party may file
exceptions, and have an order of course, to conirm the report, so far
as the same is not excepted to, and with the like effect.
RULE 82. No process shall be issued, or other proceeding had, on N.¥,;1.'3i'_'%
any 'dual decree, until the same is duly enrolled. And such process, f0ynr0l-
unless otherwise specially directed by the court shall be sealed and
issued by the register who shall not suffer any process to pass his seal, $'&"
if it does not, appear to be duly warranted. If a Commissioner is 33. ,'»§'§;3"
directed to sell real estate under such decree, he may give the requi- the 'l1°§¢."° is
site notice of sale previous to enrollment ; but to protect the title of .
the purchaser, the party for whose benefit the sale is made shall cause
the decree to be enrolled, and produce a certiicate thereof, before 3y _g8°,v»,3~
any conveyance shall be executed by the Commissioner. And where ff; thg°xr
any previous decree or dccretal order disposes of any part of the conveydlicen
merits of the cause, or is necessary to explain the Hnal decree, it shall
dther be recited therein, or enrolled therewith, as a part of the Hnal
&ecree in the cause.
RULE 83. A petition for a rehearing shall state the speeialmatfer lhnnu' ,f
Oroausfg on which such rehearing is applied for and the partioular Ip91fagrhf
points in which the decree or order is alleged to be erroneous, but it
shall not be necessary to state the proceedings anterior to such decree
or' order sought to be reversed; and the facts, if they do not appear
D\gmzed byGoo8Ie '
Q §""-
I
24 CHANCERY RULES.
from the records of the court, shall be verified by allidavit of the
Oertiticnte of party, or of some other person. It shall also be accompanied by the
two counsel certidcate of two counsel, that they have examined the case, and that required.
in their opinion the decree or order is erroneous in the particulars
mentioned in the petetion. And a copy of the petition, with the
usual notice of presenting the same, shall be served on the adverse
party, but the rehearing shall not be considered as a matter of course
in any case.
Onders to RULE 84. Where a party is entitled to an order to stay proceedings,
d
f;gf,'§§f,°° or for temporary rehef unt11 he has tune to g1ve regular notrce of a
obtained. . . . . .
motlon, or of presentmg a pet1t1on for a rehearlng, or for any other
purpose, he may make an ex parte application to the court or Com-
missioner acting as injunction ma~ter, for an order that the adverse
party show cause why the motion, or the prayer of the petition, should
not be granted, and to stay proceedings, or for other temporary relief
Papers tube in the mean time. And the adverse party shall be served with a
served on
adverse par- copy of the order, and of the petition, allidavit or certificate on which
ty.
it is founded, the same length of time before the day for showing
cause, as is required in the ordinary ease of special motions, unless
the court or Commissioner shall specially direct a shorter notice to
be given.
Deposit re- RULE 85. If a rehearing is granted, the petitioner shall lose the
g;h;£'i3g.8 benefit thereof, unless he shall within ten days thereafter, deposite
with the register fifty dollars, to answer the costs and damages of the
adverse party, if the decree or order shall not be materially varied.
If the cause is reheard, the party obtaining the rehearing Shall have
the right to open and close the argument.
Agreements RULE 86. No private agreement or consent between the parties, in
n z nh , _
.Mngi ?§°.1 respect to the proeeedmgs ln a cause, shall be alledged or suggested
3. ,°3:¢¥3§° by either of them against the other, unless the same shall have been
reduced to the form of an order, by consent, and entered in the book
of common orders, or, unless the evidence thereof shall be in writing,
subscribed by the party against whom it is alledged or suggested, 1
by his solicitor or counsel.
' Time on RULE 87. A11 rules to take effect nisi, &c., unless otherwise specially
1 d - . _ _
3:1-2 un or dlreeted, shall be rules of elght days; and the tune on all rules, orders,
:~ notices and proceedings, where a time is given or stated, shall, unless
»
\I . otherwise expresdy provided, be deemed and taken to be, one day in-
J
,,./ 14927
: . . 'f.}. f-. _4
""\ .r
* »o
D\gmzed byC.oo3l@
k_..._ _ . -r n 14..'I» . . Ln -|.'- , lv F
fi'
CHANC ERY RULES. 25
elusive and one day exclusive; but if the time expires on Sunday, the
wholeof the succeeding day shall be included.
RULE 88. The court or Commissioner acting as injunction master, Time maybe
upon special cause shown, may extend the time for putting in or serv~ §f,§°§f;°d,h¢
ing any pleading, or exceptions, or for any other proceeding which is 3?3"n°°"
required by the rules of the court, to be done within a limited time; '
and may set aside any order or decree, obtained by default or other-
wise, upon such terms as 'may be deemed just and proper.
RULE 89. The accounts of the register with the banks in which the Mauna in
moneysare directed to be deposited, shall be kept in such a manner, L"i§?é
that in the cash books of the banks, and in the bank books of the seals*
are to be
register, it shall appear in what particular suit, or on what account, kept.
the several items of money, credited or charged, were deposited or
paid out.
RULE 90. Orders upon'the banks for the payment of moneys out Form of or-
derl for
of court, shall be made payable to the order of the person entitled
_ _ , _ _ paigayt0fbe
thereto, or of Ins solicitor, or Ins attorney, duly authorlzed, and shall court.
specify in what particular suit, or on what account, the money is to be
paid out, and the time when the decree or order authorizing such pay-
ment, was made.
RULE 91. The Circuit Court Commissioners and registers of each Taxing of
Circuit Court shall have power to tax costs, and where costs have costa.
been taxed, upon hearing of the parties, an application for a retaxa~
tion may be made directly to the court.
RULE 92. In a bill of costs ofered for taxation, by or on behalf of Bm of costs
any solicitor, or of any party who prosecutes and defends by a soli- 3;-wry
citor, or by or on behalf of any olhcer of this court, who prosecutes
and defends in person, the several items of disbursements, and of the
tees of oiicers of the court, shall be particularly specihed therein,
and not charged in gross, or they shall be disallowed on taxation;
and when witnesses' fees are charged, the names of the witnesses shall
be specified, and the number of days, travel and attendance of each.
The ailidavit of the solicitor, or the ollicer who prosecutes or defends amaavrm
in person, shall also be annexed to the bill before it is taxed, stating, M»833
according to the best of his knowledge and belief, that the several °2,, ',,;_
disbursements charged in the bill have been actually and necessarily g~;'{,'22*" _3=;_.
incurred, or paid; and before any oicer or party shall be entitled to gel.
demand payment thereof such costs or fees shall be taxed by a taxing 2;;,°;*,*;_';;_
ollicer of this cpurt, but no oilicer whatever shall tax his own costs or demanded.
D\gmzed by Google
F f *
4
25 CHANCERY RULES.
Notice of fees; and the same notice of taxation shall be given to the party to
taxation ne-
cessuy- be charged therewith, if such party has appeared in the cause or pro-
ceedings, as is required by the rules of this court. The following costs
shall be allowed to the prevailing parties, viz: In all cases deter-
mined by inal decree on pleadings and proofs, thirty dollars. In all
cases determined by Hnal decree on bill and answer, plea. or demurrer,
twenty dollars. In all foreclosure cases where decree is taken on
the bill taken as confessed, lifteen dollars. Upon all special motions
such sum not exceeding, ten dollars, as the court shall deem just.
Bills to fora- RULE 93. In a bill for foreclosure or satisfaction of a mortgage, it
close mort-
gages not to shall not be necessary to set out at large the rights and interest of
set out the
rights of de- the several defendants who are purchasers of, or who have liens on,
fundants un-
necessarily. the equity of redemption in the mortgaged premises, subsequent to
the registry or recording of complainant's mortgage, and who claim
no right in opposition thereto, but it shall"be sullicient for the com-
plainant, after setting out his own right and interest in the premises,
l: to state generally, that such defendants have, or claim, some interest
\
in the premises, as subsequent purchasers, or incumbrancers, or oth- .* .
erwise.
A reference RULE 94. If a. bill to foreclose a mortgage is taken as confessed, or
of course to
compute the right of the complainant, as stated in his bill, is admitted by the
amount due
on the mort- answer,he may have an order of course, referring it to a Commissioner to
988.
compute the amount due to the complainant and to such of the de-
fendants as are prior incumbrancers of the mortgaged premises; and
if the defendant is an infant, and has put in a general answer by his
guardian, or any of the defendants are absentees, the complainant may
have a similar order of course, referring it to a Comissioner to take proof
of the facts and circumstances stated in the complainant's hill, and To take
proof of the
facts and cir- to compute the amount due on the mortgage, preparatory to the hear-
cumstnnces
stated in the ing of the cause. But every such cause shall be regularly brought to
bill. hearing at term,after the coming in of the Commissioner's report,before a.
inal decree is entered therein 5 and if the bill has been taken as con-
fessed, the complainant shall show to the Court, at the hearing, by
Mdavit or otherwise, that the proceedings to take the bill as confess-
ed have been regular, according to the rules and practice of the Court.
He shall also show whether the bill has been taken as confessed
against all of the defendants, upon sewice of subpoena, or after 1
appearance, or whether some of them have been proceeded against as
absentees.
. 44
D||f=|T.3efi 1.~.. KJ woglc
av ui
CHANCERY RULES. 27
RULE 95. Ou the coming in and confirmation of the Commission- If there is
surplus rad!-
ed on th e er's report of the sale of mortgaged premises, if it shall appear there sale of mort-
gaged premi- is any surplus moneys remaining in court, after satisfying the amount ses, the sub-
sequent in-
due the complainant, any defendant, upon filing an aliidavit that such cumbrancers
may have
surplus has been paid into court, and that he is entitled to the same, !`€fel"DC8 to
as¢ertu.in
or some part thereof, may have an order of course, referring it to a their rights-
Commissioner to ascertain and report the amount due to such defend-
ants,or to any other person and which is a lien upon such surplus
monies, and to ascertain the priorities of the several liens thereon,
to the end, that on coming in and confirmation of the report, such
further order and decree may be made for the distribution of surplus
monies, as may be just; and every defendant who has appeared in
the cause, and every person who has left a written notice of his claim
to such surplus monies with the register or assistant register, where
the same are deposited, shall be entitled to notice to attend the Com-
missioner on such reference.~ And any person making a claim to such Persons ma-
king unfoun- surplus monies, and who shall fail to establish his claim, on the hear- ded claims to
surplus mon-
ing before the Commissioner, may he charged with such costs as the other eys liable for
costs.
parties have been subjected to, by reason of such claim; and the
parties succeeding on such reference may be allowed such costs as the
Court or Commissioner acting as injunction master may be deemed
reasonable; but no costs unnecessarily incurred on such reference, or
previous thereto, by any of the parties, shall be allowed on taxation,
or paid out of such surplus.
RULE 96. The petition for the appointment of a guardian ad litem Guardimns,
ad litem,hoW
shall be by the infant in person, if he is of the age of fourteen and appointed.
upwards; but if he is under fourteen, it shall be presented by his next
of kin, or some other friend of the infant. But if an infant defend- When ap-
pointed on
ant, or some disinterested relative or friend, in his behalf, does not application
of complain-
procure the appointment of a guardian ad Zitem,within the usual time ant.
for appearance, as prescribed by the rules of this Court, the adverse
party may apply to the Court or Commissioner acting as injunction
master to appoint a suitable person as the guardian for such infant;
and such party in his petition, shall brieily state the age and residence
of such infant,the general object of the suit or proceeding and the
nature the infant's interest therein.
RULE 97. No guardian ad litem, for an infant defendant, or next Seeufty b
g\nrd`an, n
friend of an infant complainant, unless he has given security to the
infant according to law, shall, as such guardian, receive any money or
D1f}sI\Z6d C-oogle I r
.J
9
'28. CHANCERY RULES.
property belonging to such infant, or which maybe afwarded to him
in the suit, except such costs and expenses as may be allowed by the
Court to the guardian, out of the fund, or received by the infant in
the suit. Neither shall the general guardian of an infant receive any
part of the proceeds of the sale. of real Pwperty belonging to such
infant, sold under a decree or order of the Court, until the guardian
has given auch further security for the faithful discharge of his trait,
as the court may direct
Bun for ai- RULE 98. All bills for the purpose of obtaining divorce, whether
3i'.,'3§',*°.,'$'21.. the husband or wife is complainant, shall be any verified by oath, in
the usual manner of verifying bills, where by the course and practice
of the Court an oath is required. In a. bill for a divorce on the ground
of adultery, the complainant must also positively aver, that the adud-'
tery charged in the bill, was committed without his consent, conni-
vance, privity or procurement; and that he has not voluntarily oo-
habited with the defendant since the discovery of such adultery.
Reference ze RULE 99. If any such bill is taken as confessed, or the facts charged
¥.`§&"i'i. 'lff,' therein are admitted by the answer, the complainant may, upon due
ea. proof by aiiidavit of the regularity of the proceedings to take the
bill as confessed, or upon the bill and answer, have another of course
entered for a reference to a Commissioner to take proof of all the
material facts charged in the bill, and to report such proof to the
Court, with his opinion thereon.
adultery of RULE 100. The defendant in the answer may set up the adultery
f."`;Z¢,'21'.""" of the complainant, or any other matter which would be a bar to a
T,,¥.."€';.1"' - divorce, separation, or the annulling of a marriage contract; and if
swer. an issue is taken thereon, it shall be tried at the same time and in the
same manner as other issues of fact in the cause.
No sentence RULE 101. No sentence or decree of nullity, declaring void a mar-
fueluzy or riage contract, or decree for a divorce, or for a separate or limited
slmeum * divorce,shall be made of course, by the default of the defendant; or
orby 'umm in consequence of any neglect to appear at the hearing of the cause,
or by consent. And every such cause shall be heard after the trial of
the feigned issue, or upon the coming in of the Commissioner's report, at
a stated term of the Court.
Paymentof RULE 102. When a party is ordered to pay the costs of any in-
-;';o'3,_*°_ terlocutory proceedings, and no time of payment is specified in the
compiler. order, he shall pay them within twenty days after the filing of the
taxed bill, and aliidavit and service of a copy of the order of such
D\gmzed by Google I
*Y
'GHANGERY RULES. 29
inmd bill; or if a gross sum is specified in the order, within twenty
days of .service of a oerdlied copy of the order. And if he neglects
or refuses to pay Buch costs within the time prescribed as aforesaid,
orspeciiled in the order, the adverse party, on an allidavit of the per-
sonal service of such copies, and a demand of payment, and that such
mats have not been paid, may have an execution therefor, or move "for
an attachment against the delinquent. .
RULE 103. On liling a. bill of review, or other bill in the nature of nmern-
a bill of review, the complainant shall make the like deposit or give ».°211l'¢ f'f'|'€'t.
secunty to the adverse party m the same amount which is or would gg-;1_,;'; 3>_ ~;;;
be required on an appeal from an order or decree complained of ; and
no such bill shall be Bled, either upon the discovery of new matters;
or otherwise, without special leave of the court Bret obtained, nor un-
less the same is brought within the time allowed for bringing an ap
pea1,except upon newly discovered facts or evidence.
RULE 104. Where a creditor, by judgment or decree, ' miles a bill in onamru
this court against his debtor, to obtain satisfaction out of the equita- equltablih-
ble interests, things in action, or other property of the ].atter,a&er the mW _1
return of anexecution uneatkiied, he shall state in such bill, either
positively or according to his belie@ the true sum actually and equita-
bly due on such judgment or decree, over and above all just claims of
the defendant, by way of offset, or otherwise. He shall also state that
he knows, or has reason to believe, the defendanthas equitable inter- T3 .I8§f.'J"'
ests, things in action, or other property, exceeding one hundred dollars v~iW1°r
in value, exclusive of all prior claims thereon, which the complainant eo s.
has been unable to discover and reach by execution on such judgment
or decree. The bill shall likewise contain an allegation that the same
is not exhibited by collusion with the defendant, or for the purpose of
protecting the property or effects of the debtor against the claims of
other creditors; but for the sole purpose of compelling payment and
satisfaction of the complainant's own debt.
RULE 105. Every such creditor's bill shall be verilied by the oath Buch bills
of the complainant, or in ease of his absence from the State, or other ;;g;i»'}°<» .
sullident cause shown, by the oath of his agent or attorney. Such bills 2»4_ 3
may be amended of course, in the same manner as bills not sworn tc, °°'"'*
if the amendments are merely in addition to, and not inconsistent with
whatis contained in the original bill. But all such amendments shall
be verified by oath in the same manner as the bill is requi;-ed t6 be
verified.
D\gmzed by Google .-r
x
aa CHANCERY RULES.
i;_97.€"¢_ RULE 106. In suit by judgment creditor's bills, in case the defend-
;_ °_;1,_;§. ant has been duly served with process, and he is in defadt for want
3353-g;~;~1» of answer, the complainant shall be entitled. to the like orders and
_;g* of an- proceedings in regard to receive as he would be, in case he should take
the bill as confessed by the defendant.
Debtor need RULE 107. The debtor against whom a creditor'8 bill is liled, shall
nf" iiilfilt not be subject to the expense of putting in an' answer thereto in
all 9£'»Z°¢"' the usual manner, if he shall cause his appearance to be entered with-
f**.~°<'-**`3=`f*L. in twenty days after the return day of the subpoena, and shall within
ver ba ap- pointed. the time allowed for an answer,de1iver to the comp1ainant,< his soli-
citor, a written consent that an order may be entered taking the bill
as confessed, and for the appointment of a receiver, and for a refer-
ence to take the examination of the defendant, in conformity to this
rule. Upon presenting such Written consent to the Court, the com-
plainant may have a special order, founded thereon, directing the bill
to be taken as confessed against the debtor, and referringit to such Com-
missioner as the court may designatein such order, to appoint a receiver,
with the usual powers,and to take from him the requisite security.
jggcrfhg§f- The order shall also direct the defendant to assign, transfer and de-
3; ,n=* liver over to the receiver on oath,under the direction of the Commis-
sioner,all his property,equitable interests, and in action, and effects 5 and
that he appear before the Commissioner, from time to time, and pro-
duce such hooks and papers and submit to such examination as the
Commissioner shall direct, in relation to any matter which he might
have been legally required to disclose, if he had answered the bill in
the usual manner. The expense of taking down such examination by
the Commissioner, shall be paid by the complainant, in the first in-
stance, and may be taxed and allowed to the latter as a part of his
necessary costs in the suit. The complainant shall also be at liberty
to examine witnesses before the Commissioner, as to the property of
the defendant, or as to any other matter charged in the bill, and not
Copy of rule admitted by the defendant on such examination. And the complain-
it ¢m¢.i;°,, ant shall cause a Written or printed copy of this rule to be served on
ant,1rhen the defendant at the time of the service of the subpoena, with a no-
.1u'§'JZ{ is 1'9. tice to the defendant that an entry of his appearance and an answer
on oath is required; or such defendant shall not be answerable to the
complainant for the costs of the proceedings to compel an appearance
and answer.
RULE 108. Every receiver of the property and effects of the debtor,
.L
D\gmzed by Google ,
nv J. Lv. -iék-A
*T
CHANCERY BULEB~ Sl
appointed in a suit upon a creditor's bill, shall, unless restricted by the Thepmniv-
special order of the Courin, or circuit court commissioner, have general md duties.
power and authorityto sue for and collect all the debts, demands and
rents belonging to such debtor, and to compromise and settle such as
are unsafe and of a doubtful character. He may also sue in the name'
of the debtor, where it is necessary or proper for him to do so, and he
may apply for and obtain an order of course, that the tenants of any
real estate belonging to the debtor, or of which he is entitled to the
rents and profits, attorn to such receiver and pay their rents to him.
He shall also be permitted to make leases from time to time, as may
be necessary, for terms not exceeding one year. And it shall be his
duty without unreasonable delay, to convert all the personal estate
and effects into money ; but he shall not sell any real estate of the debt-
or,without the special order of the Court or circuit court commissioner.
He is not to be allowed for the costs of any suit brought by him Bocelnrnet
against an insolvent from whom he is unable to collect his costs, nn- ?i'2Z '4 'i?.'i'
less such suit is brought by order of the Court, or by the consent of les.
all 'persons interested in the funds in his hands. But he may sell Receiver
such desperate debts, and all other doubtful claims to personal pro- 12
perty, at public aution, giving at least ten day's notice of the time tion.
and place of such sale.
RULE 109. Where several bills are filed by dilferent creditors The receiv-
against the same debtor, no more than one receiver of his property ;';";";',"_
and effects shall be appointed, unless the first appointment has been 3idbm| ue
obtained by fraud or collusion, or unless the receiver is an improper
person to execute the trust. The receiver shall give security sui-
.cient to cover the whole property and eifects of the debtor, which may
come in his hands by virtue of his oliice; and he shall hold such pro-
petty and effects for the beneit of all creditors who have commenced,
or shall commence similar suits during the continuance of his trust,
to be disposed of according to their legal or equitable priorities. He
shall not pay over the funds in his hands to the parties, or to any Bocdvernet
other person, withoutbeing especially authorized to do so by an order 88" $85 ,
or decree of the court; nor shall he be discharged from his trust ?ff¢'l.'35-'i"-tl'
without a special order, to be obtained* upon a written consent of all cial order.
the parties interested in the property in his hands, or upon the notice
of the application,
RULE 110. When another suit is commenced after the appoint-
ment of a receiver, the same person may be appointed receiver of such
c
_,f
D\gmzed by Google
1
u OHANUERY RULES.
subsequent sdt, and shall give such fufther security as 'the Oourt
The receiver shall direct. He shall keep a separate account of any property or
to keep napa.-
nts 14o'11. effects of the debtor, which may have been acquired since the com-
mencement of the first suit, or which may be assigned to such re-
ceiver under the appointment in the last cause.
lt!ect of tha RULE 111. No injunction issued upon any such ereditor's bill, shall
injunction
upon credit- be construed to prevent the debtor from receiving and applying the or'| billa-
proceeds of his subsequent earnings to the support of himself, or of his
family, or to defray the expenses of the suit, or to prevent him from
complying with any order of this Court, made in any other cause, to
assign and deliver his property and effects to a receiver; or to restrain
him from making the necessary assignment to obtain his discharge
under the insolvent laws, unless an express provision to that effect is
contained in the injunction.
RULE 112. When two or more special motions, or applications in
Orders 'upon
special mo- the same suit are decided at the same time, or on the same day, or tions decided
at the mme several directions are given by the court in relation to the suit, the time, to be
entered to» whole shall be entered together as one order, unless the court shall gather.
Two or more otherwise direct. And when a party is entitled to enter two or more
onlers of
course in car orders of course, in a suit at the same time, or on the same day, they
tain cues to
be entered as shall be entered together as one order. one order.
Commission- RULE 113. The " Act to provide for the discharge of the duties
ers and W
ceedlngl e- heretofore performed by injunction masters," approved June 27th,
fore them.
1851, (S. L. 1851, p. 277,) is construed to confer upon the Circuit
Court Commissioners designated in pursuance thereof the same pow-
ers in Chancery cases within their respective counties, as may be prop-
erly exercised by a Circuit Judge at Chambers, subject to such restric-
tions and regulations as the Supreme Court may prescribe.
Reitrlctioll RULE 114. The general powers conferred by said act are hereby '
of powers,
restricted in the following particulars. :
1. No such Circuit Court Commissioner shall be empowered to va-
cate any order, or decree of the Circuit Court, or any order made by
a. Circuit Judge:
2. Nor shall he grant any injunction to stay proceedings at law,
unless reasonable notice of the time and place of hearing the applica-
tion therefor shall have been previously given to the adverse party:
3. Nor shall he grant any other injunction without such notice,
unless in his opinion the peculiar exigencies of the case require it, for .
manifest reasons to be shown by aiidavit.
s
D\gmed by Google
GHANCERY RULES. 33
' RULE 115. The rules and practice of the Circuit Courts in g*1;¢= _3
W , shall govern the proceedings before such Circuit Court Commia4 g_ *;`.'§g_|°°°=.
ationers, asfar as they may be applicable.
RULE 116. The first Tuesday of every month is assigned for hear- Mo¢lon days.
ing and disposing of business before every such Circuit Court Com-
missioner, at the Court House of the proper county--or in Wayne
county, at the Supreme Court council room in the city of Detroit;
but such Circuit Court Commissioners may also discharge the duties
of their respective omces at such other times as may be necessary.
Rims 117."It shall be the duty of every such Circuit Court Com- neg-nm of
missioner to procure and keep in his ollice aregister, in which he shall vmwliw-
enter the title of each cause or proceeding in which he shall make any
interlocutory order or decree, and a brief memorandum of his doings
therein.
RULE 118. Any person conceiving himself aggrieved by any inter- sppemmm
looutory order, or decree made by any such Circuit Court Commis~ Commiuinl-
sioner, in any suit in Chancery, may appeal therefrom to the Circuit
Court of the county in which such suit is pending: Prdvided, (L)
That such appeal shall be claimed and entered within fifteen days
from the timeof making such order or decree; and (2.) That the
appellant shall within that time execute a bond to the appellee in such
penal sum, not less than one hundred dollars, as the Commissioner
shall prescribe, with suilicient surety, to be approved by the Commis-
sioner, conditioned to pay, satisfy and perform the decree or order
which by the Circuit Court may be made in the premises, and to pay
all costs in case the order appealed from shall be amrmed. But
no such appeal shall operate as a stay of proceedings, unless a special
order to that effect shall be made by the Circuit Judge or by such
Circuit Court Commissioner on proper cause shown.
RULE 119. The appeal bond mentioned in the preceding rule, shall Appulmna.
be filed with the Circuit Court Commissioner approving the same and
shall remain with him subject to the order of the court in which the
suit is pending;
RULE 120. It shall be the duty of the appellant under these rules,
Proceedings
to ile with the Circuit Court Commissioner within the time above toperfeetap-
limited for claiming and entering his appeal, his reasons for such ap-
peal. Whereupon it shall be the duty of such Commissioner within
twenty days thereafter, to transmit to the clerk of the Circuit Court
all papers upgn which the motion or proceeding may have been
D\gmzed byGoo8Ie
34 CHANGERY RULES.
founded, or which may have been used on such motion or proceeding,
certified by him, or in case the original pleadings or iles shall have
been used he shall certify such fact to the court, with a description
of the original papers so used.
Commission- RULE 121. All appilcations within the scope of the powers and du-
er to not un~
less unafzle. ties of such Circuit Court Commissioner,in any county, shall be made
to such Commissioner except in case of his absence, sickness, or other
disability.
RULE 122. Such Circuit Court Commissioners shall be entitled to Fees of Cum-
mialloner. the following fees for their services, to be paid by the party requiring
such services, on the performance of the same, viz:
For entering any cause on the register required to be kept by such
Commissioner, fifty cents.
For hearing a. motion for injunction, when opposed, three dollars ,
when heard exparte, one dollar.
For attending at the time and place assigned for the hearing of
any special motion, and adjourning the same upon request or on rea-
sonable cause, one dollar.
For attending and hearing every argument, upon any special mo-
tion, when contested, three dollars; if not contested, one dollar.
For certifying papers, when an appeal is claimed from the Circuit
Court Commissioner, to the Circuit Court, two dollars.
For approving and filing appeal bond, fifty cents.
For granting stay of proceedings when an appeal is taken, fifty cents.
For allowing a Commission to take testimony in a cause, fifty cents.
For settling and allowing interrogatories under a commission, one
dollar.
For appointing a receiver, when the question is contested, three
dollars and fifty cents; when ea:-parte, one dollar and fifty cents.
If any Commissioner shall perform any other duties than those
enumerated in the above fee bill, he shall be entitled to such fees
therefor as shall be allowed him by the Circuit Judge.
Customary RULE 123. In cases where no provision is made by statute, or by
practice of
the court to these Mes, the proceedings of this court shall be according to the
govern in ca-
ses not oth- customary practice, as it has heretofore existed in cases not provided
erwise provi-
ded for. for by statute or the written rules of the court.
These rules shall take elfect on the twentieth day of April next.
Adopted and allowed by the Supreme Court, Detroit, March 10th,
1853.
D\gmzed by C-003 le
Ii¢,;..,, ;;.
an
INDEX TO CHANCERY RULES.
Absent defendants, reference in case of; Rule 17
Abstract of pleadings, &c.7 67
Accounting before master, 79
Address of petition and bills, 4
Allidavits to be annexed to costs to be taxed, 92
to obtain an attachment when a discovery is prayed for, 12
Agreements between solicitors to be in writing, 86
Agents to be appointed by solicitors, 1
when service may be on, 2
double time of service on, 3
Amendment of creditors bills of course, 105
Amendments to bill when allowed, 22
after demurrer, 23
after exceptions allowed or submitted to, 24
to be of course without order 22
not to be of colirse to injunctién bills, 24
service of necessary, 22
to sworn bill how verified, 22
statement of to be filed, 22
Answers on overruling plea, &c., 27
how to be veriied, 8
on oath how waived, 19
before whom they may be sworn, 20
\
when deemed suflicient, 32
to cross bill, when demanclable, 21
effect of when not replied to, 19
taken out of state, how verified, 20
-to be put inwithin 20 days, 11
further time for, on exceptions submitted to, 36
to amendments and exceptions, 39
to ame ndments on exce tlous allowed p , 37
to amendments to be fixed by the Commissioner, 33~
Appeals from Commissioner, 1 18
118 when to stay proceedings,
11 Appearance, when and where entered,
13 on return of attachment served,
13 penalty for refusing to enter,
D \f»mZ@d by JOO8 le
36 INDEX.
Argument of exceptions to answer, to be heard as a motion, Rule 41
Attachment for not appearing when to issue, 12
neglect. to appear on, penalty for, 13
proceedings on to compel appearance, 13
Bank, accounts with, how kept, 89
orders on, how drawn, 90
Bills to be addressed to the circuit court, &c., 4
to besworn to when, 7
how to be sworn to, 8
by creditors what to state, 104
may be amended, 105
manner of stating matters in, 8
of non-residents, not to be Hled without security for costs, 6
of revivor what unnecessary to state, 46
dismissal of, if papers not furnished, 70
not sworn to, amendable of course, 22
may be amended after demurrer, 23
may be amended on exceptions allowed, 24
may be dismissed for Want of prosecution, 48
of review, not to be filed without leave, 103
for divorce, &c., to be sworn to, 98
for divorce, to contain special averments, 98
for foreclosure of mortgages, how to state incumhrances, 93
Caption of orders and decrees, form of, 4
to state where made, 4
Calendar, how made up, 65
cause may be entered on in term, 66
Case to be furnished at hearing 64
to be not more than onesixth as long as pleadings, Sao., 64
Charges and discharges to be sworn to on accounts, 79
Circuit Court Commissioner, powers as injunction master, 113, 121
fees as injunction master, 122
may tax costs, 91
reference of exceptions to, 29
report on 32, 35
exceptions to his report how heard, 41
may fix time for further answer, 33
proceedings on ordinary reference, 72
to issue summons and ix time of service, 72
may allow another party to proceed on reference,
may settle order of proceeding, . ..
may direct as to production and custody ofbooks and papers, 75
when may proceed exparte,
how examinations to be made,
exceptions for impertinence or insufficiency of papers,
may examine accounting party on oath,
may allow interest,
may make separate report,
sale and conveyance of land by,
Court bills to be addressed to,
Commissions to examine witnesses how obtained 7 7
to examlne wmzesses, adverse party may joxn 1n,
'1
D\QmZed kay Google *
2
I IU- -_-`=- . -.-4» ...~_ ='!1"
INDEX. 37
Commissions, how executed, Rick 54
how opened and tiled, 55
special may be rented, 53
Common orders, how otained, 25
Complaiuant's name to be placed first in title of cause, 69
Complainant when to give security for costs, 6
to deliver a copy of bill in 15 days if required, 14
may waive answer on oath, 19
to refer exceptions in ten days, 29
to serve a copy of rule in creditor's suit, 107
.examination Of; 17
Conveyances not to be executed before enrollment, 82
Copy of bill, order to deliver in fifteen days, 14
rule to be served in creditor's suit, 101
Copies of pleadings to be furnished to the court on hear ing, 67
by whom furnished, 68
Costs of amendment after answer, 22
security for, 6
of exceptions for scandal or impertinence, a 1, 35
of exceptions submitted to, to be paid by defendant, 28
of exceptions when disallowed, 35
order for further answer and for costs, 37
taxed bill to be served before time of answering expires, 39
of exceptions, penalty for not paying, 40
of exceptions to be all included in one bill, 42
regulated in certain cases, / 92
may be taxed by Commissioner or re ister, ' 9x~
not to be paid until taxed bill and a davit Bled, 92
of false claims to overplus on sales, to be paid by claimant, 95
to be verified by oath on taxation, 92
interlocutory tb be paid in 20 days, 102
notice of taxation of, 92
when to be paid, 102
Creditor's bills, form of 104
to be sworn to, 105
submission of defendant on, 107
powers of receiver on, 108
may be amended of course, 105
rule to be served with subpmna in, 107
receiver on when appointed exfaarte, 106
injunction on, effect of, 11 1
Cross bill when to be answered, 21
Date of issue, to give priority on calendar, 65
Debtor, when excused from answering, creditor's bill, 107
Deeds, &c., not to be read on hearing without order, 58
Daxrees, caption of to state when made, 4
to be enrolled before execution. 82
for divorce, &c., not granted by default. without proof, 101
by defaudt at hearing, 70
of course, of dismissal for not serving copy of bill, 14
Befaulm may be set aside on terms, 88
Defendant, when excused from answering creditefs bm 107
D\gmzed by C. O08 le
38 INDEX.
Defendant to a pear in 20 days after service of subpoena, Rule ll
. arrestedpon attachment, to enter his appearance, 13
may submit to a part of exceptions, 28
to file and serve copy of answer, 15
proceedings on examination of as a witness, 57
may decline answering certain interrogatories, 45
Dem \1l'1° er for want of parties, amendment of course on, 23
overruled as frivolous, or otherwise order on, 27
either party may notice it for hearing, 26
how placed on calender, and in what class, 65
when not to be held bad, .43, 44
Deposit to be made on rehearing, 85
to be made on 'filing bill of review, 103
Deposition to be returned and filed in ten days after proofs closed, 60
suppresslon Og not made except on special motion, 56
_ how taken on reference to Commissioner, 77
Discovery from defendant, how obtained, 12
Dlsmissing bill for want of prosecution, 48
Divorce, bills for to be sworn to, 98
bills, reference of, 99
matters set up in bar of, how tried, 100
decree of not of course on default 101
Doournentary evidence not to be read witliout order, 58
Double tune when service on an agent, 3
Enrollment of decrees to be made before execution, 82
_ _ of decrees no process to issue without, 82
Entltlmg of papers, complainant's name to be placed Hrst, 69
Examination of parties, &c., before Commissioner, 77
accounting before a Commissioner 79
Exceptions not to prevent dissolution of injunction, 18
for insuliiciency, not allowed Where oath 1s waived, 19
to answer to be filed in twenty days 28
not submitted to, to be referred in ten days, 29
for scandal or impertinence, how taken, 31
Commissioner'8 report on when conclusive 35
to be stated on reference ,of 2nd and 3rd imswer, 30
Commissioner's report on, when to be procured, 82
when to become absolute 34
to a report on, to be hearll as a special motion, 41
costs on regulated, 41
costs on not allowed in certain cases 42
limited to objections taken before Commissioner, 78
costs on to be one bill 42
not to pievent motion 20 dissolve injunction, 18
Executionof commission, 54
for costs when 102
Exhibits to be produced before Commissioner, 58
to be returned and filed before hearing, 60
Fees to be detailed on bill of costs, 92
allowed in certain cases, 92
Foreclosure suits, proceedings in, 93
bill, what rights to state, 93
D\g\tlzed by ~l
INDEX. 89
Foreclosure bill, reference in suits of course to compute, Rule 94
suits, proof as to infants and absent defendants, 94
affidavit of regularit , 94
reference as to surp us, 95
Further answér,order for a submission to exceptions, 36
on report of Commissioner, 37
Guardians ad litem, how appointed, 96
do petitions for, by whom presented and what to state 96
do not to receive infants property, 97
Hearing may be noticed by either party, 62
on bill and answer, if no replication is filed, 47
time of notice of, how regulated, 63
ease to be furnished on, in certain cases, 64
of the exceptions, to report on exceptions, 41
deeds not to be read ou, without order, 58
calendar of causes for, how made up, 65
to be noticed for Hrst day of term, 66
papers to be furnished on, 67
who to furnish papers for, 68
decrees by default at, 70
Impertinence, report on, when to be final, 35
Impertiuent matter,order to expunge, 35
Incumbrancesz not to be stated at length in foreclosure suits, 93
Infants, guardians, ad litem of, 96
guardians not to receive property of; 97
Injunctions, effect of on creditor's bill, 111
Interrogatories, to examine foreign witnesses, 52
Issue on filing general replication, 47
note of, to be delivered to the register, 66
what causes to have priority from date, 65
Interest, on accounting before Commissioner, 79
Money, order for payment of, 90
Motions when to stand over, 5
to be made on the day of notice, 5
special notice of, how to be given, 63
to dismiss bill for want of prosecution, 48
for reference in divorce causes, 99
to be made before Commissioner, 113, 121
Mortgage cases, proceeding regulated, 94
to have preference, 65
reference of course, to compute amount, 94
reference as to surplus moneys, 95
Ne exeat, when may be discharged, 19
Non-resident complainants to give security, 6
Note of issue, when to be delivered, 66
Notice, when it may be served on agent, 2
how served in absence of solicitor, 3
when double time required, 3
when to put in post-oflice, 2
of application for a commission, 50, 53
of examination of witnesses, 49
of hearing and special motions, 63
D\gmzed by C. O08 lc
.L-I H
40 INDEX.
Notice to attend on reference, time of regulated, Rule 72
of hearing, to be for first day of term,; 66
of claun to surplus, may be filed, 95
_ not necessary after pro confesso, 16
Nulllty of marriage, bill for, to be veriied by oath, 98
0 h of 1 arriage, reference to take proofs, 99
at to bi ls and answers, 8
Orders of course, when to be entered together, 112
Order to take bill as confessed for neglect to appear, 11
that defendant answer in twenty days, 15
for absent defendants to appear 17
that defendants appearance be entered on attachment, 13
to deliver a copy of bill in fifteen days, 14
to answer cross bill, 21
of course, to amend, not necessary, 22
of course,how entered 25
to answer on overruling a plea or demurrer, 27
to refer exception to answer, if not submitted to, 29
to second or third answer on oldexceptions, 30
to exceptions for scandal or impertinence, 31
to expunge impertinent matter, 35
for a further answer on submission to exceptions, 36
for on report of commissioner on exceptions, 37
on default in answering exceptions for insufficiency, 40
to dismiss bill for Want of prosecution, 48
to examine winesses before Commissioner, 49
for Special commission to examine witnesses, 53
to examine defendant as witness, 57
for leave to prove exhibits at hearing, 58
to enlarge time for cxamimation of witnesses, 61
of hearing calendar causes at term, 65
to dismiss bill for default at hearing, . 70
of reference, application to expedite proceedings on, 73
to confirm Commissi0ner's report, unless cause, 81
adecting merits to be included in enrolment, 82
\to stay proceedings, and to show cause, how obtained, 84
nisi, to be orders of eight days, 87
to extend time, by whom allowed 88
upon banks for payment of moneys deposited in court, 90
of reference to compute amount due on mortgage, 94
of as to surplus on mortgage sales, 95
for guardian, ad litem, by whom granted, 96
to pay costs how enforced, 102
for leave to Hle a bill of review, deposit required on, 103
form of caption of,
caption of, to state truly where court was held,
several,when to be entered as one, 112
by Circuit Court Commissioner, 4
Papers to be furnished for hearing, 67
furnished on a rehearing, 67
Parol agreements between solicitors not alowed, 86
Petitions to be addresed to the circuit court, 4
L W'
"1.
D\gmzed by C003 le _
..
4, 4 4-
x
INDEX. 41
Petitions, how to be verified, Rule 8
for a rehearing, 83
to appoint guardians ad litem, 96
Plea overruled as frivolous, proceedings on, 27 1
if allowed, may be replied to within 10 days, 26
not to be held bad for certain causes, 43, 44
Pleadings to be fairly written, 69
to be abbreviated for the court on the hearing, 64
by whom to be furnished on hearing, 68
Process, when returnable. 9
may be renewed of course, if not served, 9
upon decrees, by whom to be sealed, 82
pro confesso after service of subpcena, 11
pro aonfesso for want of answer, 15
pro corjcsso against absent defendants, 17
Receivers, how appointed on creditor's bills, 107
powers of, on creditor's bill, 108
not to pay money to parties without order, 109
to keep separate accounts, 110
only one to be appointed, 110
l Reference of exceptions to answer for insuiiicienoy, 29
of second and third answers on old exceptions, 30 i l of exceptions for scandal or impertinence, 31
proceedings and notice required, 72
to compute amount due on mortgage, 94
H as to surplus on mortgage sales, 95
: in divorce cases, how obtained, 99
by consent on c1'editor's bills, 107
Register to keep list of agents in his oiiice, 1
to issue commissions to take testimony, 50
not to file irregular papers, 69
Rehearing petition, certificate of counsel, &c.7 on application for, 83
deposit on to be made in 10 days, 85
Replication, when to be filed, 47
Report, objections to, must be made before Commissioner, 78
separate when, 89
on exceptions for impertinence, when filed, 34
order to conlirm nisi, 81
on exceptions, to specify time for further answer, 33
on exceptions, when to become absolute, 34
Retaxation to be granted by the court in certain eases, 91
Rule to be served in creditor's suits, 107
when to take effect, 87
to be annexed to commission, 54
Security to be given by non-residents before bill tiled, 6
required of special guardians, 97
required on bill of review, 103
Separation bill, how verified, 38
reference to take proof on bill for, 99
not granted of course, in any case, 101
Several orders when to be entered as one, 112
Service may be on agent in certain cases, 2
6
r
D\gmzed by C008 IQ
1
42 INDEX.
Service,when on agent, double time required, Rule 3
by putting in post oilice, 2
not required when defendant has not appeared, 2
of subpoena, how made, 10
Solicitors to have agents in each circuit, 1
to verify bills of costs before taxation, 92
Submission of causes, how made, 71
to answer exceptions, 28
Subpoena to contain names of all the defendants, 1 0
how to be Served, 10
for witnesses, to specify place of appearance, 59
Substance of oath to be stated in jurat, 8
Summons, time of service required on, 72
to be served upon incumbrancers who have Hled claims, 95
Supplemental bill need not set forth original unless, &c., 46
Surplus on sales, distribution how made, 95.
Statement in bill of review and supplemental, 46
Stay of proceedings, how obtained, 84
Taxation of costs, regulated, 92
of costs, by whom, 91
Testimony to be returned and filed before hearing, 60
when and how taken, &c., 49
before Commissioner to be taken and preserved, 77
Term,notice of hearing to be for Hrst day, 66
Time, for taking testimony, 49
when proofs to be closed, 49
for entering appearance, 11
for suppressing depositions, 56
for Hling depositions, 60
for proceeding in reference, 73
on rules and orders, how computed, 87'
may be extended in all eases, 88
for service of Commissioner's summons, '72
for service of notice of hearing, 63
for service on agent, &c., 3
for filing notes of issue, _ 66
Witnesses out of state to be examined on interrogatories, 52
not compelled to travel over forty miles, 59
how examined on reference, 77
order to examine defendant as, 57
subpoenas to compel attendance of, 59
examination of, 49
Writing, submissions to be in, 71
agreements to be in, 86
"-.
D\gmzed by Google
I
•
LAW RULES.
RULE I. Applicants for admission to practice at the bar as attor- Examlnation
of Attorneys
neys and counsellors shall be examined, if entitled thereto, in open
Court, upon the principles of common law, and practice generally, as
well at law as in equity.
RULE 2. To entitle an applicant to an examination, he must make Form and re-
quisite! of
application by petition, addressed to the Court, verified by his own applications
for admis-
oath ; in which he must state, that he is a citizen of the United States, sion to prac-
tice.
twenty-one years of age, and a resident of the judicial circuit in which
.he so applies. To such petition, before it shall be acted upon by the
Court, there must be annexed the certificate of at least one reputable
member of the bar, or some other reputable person known to the
Court, certifying to the good moral character of the applicant, and in
a manner satisfactory to thc Court.
RULE 3. In every case of application and admission to the bar, the Proceedings
on ndmissioll applicant shall take the proper oath, sign the roll of attorneys to be of attorneys-
provided and kept by the clerk for that purpose, and pay to the clerk
tfee of two dollars; and he shall thereupon be entitled to a certifi-
cate from the clerk, under the seal of the Court, of his examination
and admission.
RULE 4. Every attorney shall have an agent in each place Where Every attor-
ney shall
there is a circuit court held in this state, except in the city or town have m
'agent, &c.
where such attorney keeps his ollice. No person shall be an agent
unless he be an attorney of the Court, clerk of the Court, or deputy
clerk. The appointment of agents shall be made in writing, signed Appointment
to be in wri-
by the attorney, and filed in the clerk's oflice; and the clerk shall keep ting.
Clerk to |. catalogue of the appointments filed in the ollice, with the attorneys' keep list of
agents.
names, alphabetically arranged.
D\gmzed by GO08 lc fncfd a
J
1
2 LAW RULES.
Service of RULE. 5. When the attorney for the adverse party .resides more
P*P°1`|» on
whom md than two miles from the place of holding court, service of papers oon~
how mall.
templated by these rules may be made on an agent; but if he has :o
such agent, such service may be made by mail.
Notice: to RULE 6. All notices shall be in writing, and shall be served on the
'bo servad on
the attorney attorney in the cause, or his agent, and where a party,who is also an
or *B ent, and
on party pru- attorney of this Court, shall prosecute in person, or is a defendant,
secuting in
person. shall give notice that he is an attorney,and will defend in person, all
notices and other papers shall be served on him in like manner; and
Sewoo w b0 when the object is to bring the party into contempt for disobeying
genonul to
ring a party any rude or order of the Court, the service shall be on such party per-
into con-
tempt. sonally, unless otherwise specially ordered by the Court.
Notice and RULE 7. Notices and papers may be served on an attorney or his
papers may
be served on agent, by leaving the same with him or his agent, or with his clerk in
the attorney
-how md his ollice, or with a person having charge thereof ; or when no person
when.
is to be fouhd in the ollice, by leaving the same, between the hours of
six in the morning and nine in the evening, in some suitable and con-
spicuous place in such ollice; or if the olhce be not open so as to ad-
mit' of service therein, then by leaving. the same at the att/orney's
residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
Berdzs on RULE 8. When a party, other than an attorney of this Court, prose-
party when
?lol8C\l"|Jg cutes or defends in person, the service of papers may be on such party
n person-
how made. personally, or by mail And no service of notice or papers in the or-
No notice dinary proceedings in a cause shall be necessary to be made on a de-
necessary
when defen~ fendant who has not appeared therein and given notice to the plain-
dant has not
appeu'ed,un- tiifs attorney of his intention to defend the suit, except where the
less in custo-
dy. defendant is returned imprisoned for want of bail, in which case a copy
of the declaration shall be delivered to him, or to the sherilf or jailor
in whose custody he shall be; and when an exception is entered to
bai.l,and no notice of retainer of an attorney to defend is given,no-
tice of such exception shall be delivered to the sheri8` or one of his
deputies.
Service by RULE 9, In case of service by mail, such service may be made by
mail, how
made. putting the notice or papers into the post-ollice with postage prepaid,
directed to the attorney or party at his place of residence, to be as
certained according to the best infomation and belief of the person
making such service. And in such case, the time of service must be
increased one day for every fifty miles distance, between the place of
the deposit and the place of address.
D\gmzed by Google
C
LAW RULES. 3(
Bunn 10. A defendant shall be deemed to have appeared in an ae- Wm mm
_ _ _ _ _ _ deemed an
tion, when he pleads, demurs,or gives the plaintiff written notice of »m»w~m°°~
his a.ppearanee,or when his attorney gives the plaintilf written notice
of appearance or retainer generally. And the plaintif on filing such
notice of appearance or retainer, may have the appearance of the de
fendant entered as of the time when such notice was served.
RULE 11. No private agreement or consent between the parties or Agreements
their attorneys, in respect to the proceedings in a cause, shall bebind- bemin wi ;
ing unless the same shell have been reduced to the form of a rule by méed, ae.
consent, and entered accordingly in the book of common rules; or
unless evidence thereof shall be in writing, subscribed by the party or
his attorney, against whom the same shall be alleged.
RULE 12. Original writs may be issued in vacation or term time, OH 'nn
and made returnable on the first Tuesday of every month, and also on "£i,, 33"
ed d
811] day 1D ternf; and wnts of executxon May be xssued 111 vacatxon 1.3|en'return-
xbl
or term time, and made returnable on the first Tuesdays of May, n&¢¢l<;¥»
August, November and February, in each year, or on the first day of \l;1e°returna-
the next ensuing term of the Court.
RULE 13. Every rule to which a. party woudd, according to the Bnlcs,com-
practice of the Court, be entitled of course, without showing special L"§'Z»,.32.'3Z
cause, shall be denominated a common rule; and every other mle shall nomum
be denominated a special rule. All common rudes, and all rules by Common
consent of parties, shall be entered with the clerk at his ollice, in a rules iiwn-
book to be provided by him for that purpose, to be called the " com- _id 3334
mon rule book," and may be entered at any time, as well in vacation
as during term; and the day when the rule shall be entered, shall be
notedtherein, and the party may enter such rule as he may conceive
himself entitled to, of course, but at his peril.
RULE 14. The day on which any rule shall be entered, or order, T1me,Iluw
notice, pleading or paper served, shall be excluded in the computation 3.i'3lL§°'Z.'l jj
of the time for complying with the exigency of such rule, order,or £$., "°L'é."°
notice, pleading or paper, and the day on which a compliance there-
with is required shall be included, except where it shall fall on a Sun-
day, in which case the party shall have the next day to comply there-
with. When by the terms of any order an act is directed to be per-
formed instanter, it shall be done in twenty-four hours.
RULE 15. In all suits commenced by original writ, the plaintiff shall T*;'§',2,;,"',
51e his declaration within twenty days after the return day of the Plwiinx-
writ. Within ten days after the time limited for iilingtlio declaration
D\gmzed by Google
I
4 LAW RULES.
the defendant may cause notice of his appearance or of retainer tube
served on the plaintiff The plaintiif shall within ten days after the
time limited for ~erving such notice, serve upon the party_giving such
notice a copy of the declaration filed. The defendant on suits so
commenced shall plead to the declaration, and serve a copy of his
plea upon the opposite party or his attorney, within twenty days after
service of a copy of the declaration. All subsequent pleadings or
notices in suits so commenced, as well as in suits commenced by ser~
vice of declaration under the statute, shall be respectively Bled, and
copies served on the opposite party within ten days each after the
other, until issue in fact or in law be joined.
Notice to be RULE 16. To any notice of special matter of defence interposed
given of spe-
cial matter by a defendant in pleading, the plaintiif shall be at liberty to reply by
by both par-
tie!- notice; and in order to entitle him to give any new or special matter
in evidence on the trial, either in bar or avoidancebf such special
matter of defence, he shall give notice thereof And every notice of
special matter shall briehy state the precise nature of the matter re-
lied on, and otherwise contain all the requisites in matter of substance
of a special plea: and it shall be competent to demur to any such
notice as to any other pleading.
RULE 17. The general issue may be made in the following form:
General is- " The defendant comes and demands a trial of the matters set forth
me, form of.
in the p1ainti1i"s declaration ," and the form of a demurrer may be as
Demurrer, follows: " The said defendant says that the said declaration, (or no-
form of.
tice, &c.,) is not sullicient in law," shewing the special cause of demur-
Ioinder in rer, if any, and a joinder in demurrer may be made as follows: " The
demurrer,
form oh plaintiff (or defendant) says that the said declaration (or notice, &c.7)
is sullicient in law."
English . RULE 18. The forms of declarations adopted under the new Eng-
forms may
ba adopted lish rules so far as they are not inconsistent with either the statutes
in this court 7
so far as can- or the peculiar organization of said Circuit Court, may be used, or
sistent.
the same may be drawn according to the forms heretofore in use.
said court.
When ex- RULE 19. All exceptions to the report of the clerk of the court in
ceptions to
be filed to re- assessing damages, must be iled on the day succeeding that on which
port of clerk.
such report is filed, unless the court shall otherwise direct.
RULE 20. When a defendant has been taken upon a capfias ad 're Bm, lpeeial,
when not
tiled how to spomiendum, and has given satisfactory appearance bail, the plaintiff
proceed. may proceed to Bnal judgment, which proceeding shall not release the
"*~.
Lv 1 I
E|f1|T|2ed @..C.oo.Q le ..
.1 ) . -- |. *»..;.a. »'l'|'= * *'\
e '1
LAW RULES. 5
appearance bail. Until the defendant has appearecl and perfected
special bail he is not entitled to a copy of the declaration, nor can he
. plead thereto, nor take any default against the plaintiff; and where
the defendant in any original writ accepts service, his appearance may
be entered, and he will be considered in court.
RULE 21. If either party shall make default in filing and serving n,f.\1¢|,
nny pleading or notice within the time limited by rule, the opposite
party may have the ddaudt entered in the common rule book
RULE 22. The defendant's default being dudy entered, the plaintilf rmnuz not
shall not be bound afterwards to accept a plea, unless the defendant, .;1 1.. 8?
as soon as he shall know that the default has been entered, shall serve mum en-
an allidavit of merits, plead issuably, and pay or tender the costs of
the default.
RULE 28. The party in whose favor default may have been entered mmm in
in term or in vacation, may at any time, after four days in term shall 384
118-ve intervened, or if entered in term time, then at any time after iT;' ¢2.ft...=.
the expiration of four days thereafter, or in such other time asmay F33 gg In
be ordered by the court, have a rule entered in the common rude book,1"iS'°°"*-
tomake such default absolute, and for such judgment as the party is
entitled to by reason of the default. If such default be taken bynefmauu
plaintiff for want of plea, he shall, by said rule, in cases where it is 3lf5'é¥., *
competent, make reference to the clerk to assess the damages; and in
other eases said rule shall direct that the assessment be made by the §;f,°_;v,;~ ,,,,
court, or by a jury.
BULE 24. Pleas in abatement, or to the jurisdiction, and all other summon,
dilatory pleas, shall be filed without any rule for a. special or a gene- WMM"
ral special imparlance, within ten days after ming and service of de- 3&'38"'°"°
claration.
RULE 25. The court will not entertain a motion to set aside the lllmomor,
proceedings in a cause, on the ground of misnomer of the party ar- 2,'° \1°:' |,',f,,'
rested, but will leave him to his remedy by a plea in abatement.
, RULE 26. The plaintiff may at any time, upon notice to the de- Discontinu-
mas. when
fendant or his attorney, and on the payment of all the costs taxed in u on-
the cause, discontinue his suit in the common rule book.
RULE 27. A11 motions to set aside a default shall be made within D¢nm1u,m»-
the first four days of term next after the default shall have been en- .£3.f°v1.¢.
tered Pa what
Rum: 28. In all cases of special motions, except a motion for &¢°£'1'&i°¢
continuance, the aiiidayits and other papers on which the same may be §',, 'I,8§°;_m
D\gmzed by Google
\
6 LAW RULES.
founded, shall be filed at the time of entering the motion, and copies
thereof shall be served on the attorney of the opposite party on or
before the day of making such motion.
Entry of spe- RULE 29. The clerk of every Circuit Court shall provide a book
cial motions.
to be denominated, "the special motion book," in which all special
motions shall be entered, except motions for continuance. In enter-
Grounds to ing a special motion, all the grounds upon which the same is founded, be ltlted.
shall be briefly but distinctly set out; and in all cases, the motion
shall be entitled, dated and signed by the attorney or counsel of the
party in whose behalf the same is entered. Such motions shall be
How heax-d. heard in the order in which they are entered, unless otherwise ordered.
When to be RULE 30. No motion which is resisted shall be argued on the day
arguad.
it is entered, without the consent of parties, unless the court, on good
cause being shown, otherwise direct.
Motions for RULE 31. Motions for new trial,with the reasons on which they
new trial,
when madn- are founded, shall be made within two days after the rendition of the
verdict, in the case of a trial by jury; and where the cause has been
tried by the court, two days in term after the decision of the court.
Motionl in RULE 32. Motions in arrest of judgment shall be made within the
arrest of
judgment same time as motions for new trial, except when a motion for a new
when made.
trial has been interposed and overruled, and then within two days
after the motion is overruled.
Motions to RULE 33. All motions shall be in writing, and Shall have endorsed
be in wting
& endorsed. thereon the names of the parties and their respective attorneys.
Demurrer to RULE 34. When either party shall demur to any pleading or notice
be special. of special matter, he shall brieiiy but plainly specify the objections,
in matters of substance, as well as those of form, upon which he in-
tends to rely on the argument, and if the pleading or notice shall
be adjudged bad for any cause not so specified, the party pleading,
when allowed to amend on terms, will be permitted to do so without
costs. I
Amendments RULE 35. The plaintiif may, at any time before the default for not
to decree,
when may be replying shall be entered to any plea or notice, or within ten days
made.
after service of a copy of the plea, if it shall be the general issue,
When either amend his declaration. After plea, either party may, before default
party may amend. for not answering shall be entered, amend the pleading or notice to
be answered, and where there shall be a demurrer to a declaration or
other pleading or notice, such pleading or notice may be amended at
any time before .the default for not joining in demurrer shall be en-
D\gmzed bv CooQ le
li 1.
LAW RULES. 7
fowl. The respective parties may amend under this rule, of eourae, mm mm
out mu.
and without costs, but shall not be entitled so to amend more than
once. Under this rule new counts, pleas or notices may be added.
RULE 36. No rude to amend shall be required, but a copy of the Amended w
leading!
L 8196 md amended pleading or notice, endorsed, " amended nan," " plea" " no- served with I
mme. tice," dm, (as the case may be,) shall be ' filed and served, with a no-
tice that the same is a copy,of the pleading or notice as amended.
And the time to plead or answer, if notice thereof has been given, Time w
plsld to
A-mendmenh shall be from the day of service of such copy of the amended plead-
ihg or notice. .
RULE 37. In cases in which the defendant is entitled to demand a Bill of pr
ticulars,
when to bv bill of particudars, the plaintilf shall furnish such bill on being served seneé.
with a notice requiring the same by the defendant or .his atwmeyq
and if such bill be demanded before the expiration of the time for
filing plea, the defendant shall have like time to plead after receiving
the bill of particudars, to which he was entitled at the time of serving
such notice.
RULE 38. If the plaintiff shall unreasonably neglect to furnish a mu of par-
ticulars, if
bill Of particulars, or if the bill of particulars delivered be insulli ° not hxmlsh-
ed court may
mnsuit cient, the court may in its discretion non-suit the plaintiff, allow plaintiff or
give tlm|. further time to furnish it, or require a more particular bill to be de-
livered.
RIJLE 39. In cases where it is competent for the plaintili' to call upon Bill of par-
tleulua, cle-
the defendant for a bill of the particdars of his set o1i§ thedefendant fondsut fn
furnish.
shall furnish such bill on the written request of the plaintii or his at- Testimony
to be exclu- torney; and in case it be not furnished within thirty days after such ded lf not
furnllhed. request, the court may exclude all testimony touching it Where the
BSPHGSHOII,
bill of particulars is demanded and furnished in cases where a replica- when to be
llled after
tion notice is necessary, the plaintiff shall have the same time to re service of
bill of pu*-
ply that was unexpired of the rule at the time of demanding such bill. tleulus-
RULE 40. Application may be made by petition to any Circuit Book! and
P*P°\`11 <*;*
Co_urt,in term time, or to the judge thereof; in vacation,to compel the oovory o .
how made.
production and discovery of books, papers and documents, relating to
the merits of any suit pending in such court, or of any defence to
such suit, in the following cases:
1. By the plaintii, to compel the discovery of papers or documents In whstcs-
in the possession or under the control of the defendant, which may be ¢'$."' PWM'
neeessary to enable the plaintiff to declare or answer to any pleading
of the defendant:
7
D\gmzed by Google
1
8 LAW RULES.
In vlnt ea-- 2. The plaintiff may be compelled to make the discovery of papers
nes by defau-
duut. or documents, where the same shall be necessary to enable the de-
fendant to answer any pleading of the plaintiff:
rmnria nf~ 3 . The plaintiff may be compelled, after declaring, and the defend-
ter decluin(
defendant ant, after pleading, to produce and discover all papers or documents on
after plsMl~
ing, mny be which the action or defence is founded:
aompelled to
discover 4. After issue joined in any action, either party may be compelled
books, Ma.
Either pm: to produce and discover all such books, papers and documents, as may
to prepare
for trial. be necessary to enable the party applying for such discovery to pre
pare for the trial of the cause.
Petitlan for RULE 41. The petition for such discovery shall state the facts and
discovery,
what to state circumstances on which the same is claimed, and shall be verified b
to be verified y
afidavit, stating that the books, papers and documents, whereof dis-
covery is sought, are not in the possession or under the control of the
party applying therefor, and that the party making such aliidavit is
advised by his counsel, and verily believes, that the discovery of the
books, papers or documents mentioned in.such petition, is necessary
to enable him to declare, or answer, or to prepare for trial, as the
case may be.
Discovery, RULE 42. The rule granting the discovery shall specify the modein
rule fomvhlt
to specify. which the same is to be made, which may be either by requiring the
party to deliver sworn copies of matters to be discovered, or by re
quiring him to produce and deposit the same with the clerk of the
Rule for to court in which the trial is to be had. The order shall also specify
specify time
to procure, the time within which the discovery is to be made; and when the pa-
bc.
pers are required to be deposited, the order shell specify the time for
which the deposit shall continue.
Court or' RULE 43. The court or presiding judge thereof, in granting such
Judge to 'ba
governed by order, shall be governed by the principles and practice of the court
l
;::::.;r;. of of ohanoery in compelling discoveries, except that the costs of such
ourt o
Oluncery &= proceedings shall always be awarded in the discretion of the court.
Diqcovery RULE 44. Every such order may be vacated by the court, or the
order for |
when nca- judge granting the same:
fed.
1. Upon satisfactory evidence that it ought not to have been
granted:
2. Upon the discovery sought being obtained:
3. Upon the party required to make the discovery denying on oath,
the possession or control of the books, papers or documents ordered
o to be produced.
D\gmzed by Google
I
LAW RULES. 9
Rm.: 45. The order directing the discovery of books, papers or f,'§,,'° ,;'?,, FY;,,
documents shall operate as a stay of all other proceedings in the cause, opraf on, events
until such order shall have been complied with, or vacated; and the 348'-gli"
party obtaining such order, after the same shall have been complied
with or vacated, shall have the like time to declare, plead, or answer,
to which he was entitled at the time of the making the order.
RULE 46. In case of the party refusing or neglecting to obey such Discovery of
;;';;;f°;
order for adiscovery, within such time as the court shall deem rea-
sonable, the court mayimonsuit him, or may strike out any plea or p1;8M PW
notice he may have given, or may debar him from any particular de-
fence in relution to which such discovery was sought; and the power
of the court to compel such discovery shall be confined to the reme
dies herein provided, and shall not extend to authorize any other pro-
eeedings against the person or property of the party so refusing or
neglecting.
RULE 47. The books, papers and documents, or sworn copies Booklépa-
thereof, produced under any order made in pursuance of the prece- ;°§. 1 on
ding rules, shall have the same effect, when used by the party requir- eEect of
ing them, as if produced upon notice, according to the practice of the
court.
RULE 48. Either party may exhibit to the other or to his attorney Gonudneu of
at any time before the trial, any paper material to the action, and re- gg°,, ';"°;,;*,;',,,
quest an admission in writing, of its genuineness. If the adverse 3.§2..'3'?°" do-
party or his attorney fail to give the admission within four days after
the request, and if the party exhibiting the paper be afterward put to
expense in order to prove its genuineness, and the same be finally
proved or admitted on the trial,such expense to be ascertained at the
trial, shall be paid by the party refusing the admission: unless it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the court that there were good reasons
for the refusal.
RULE 49. Depositions of any witnesses taken within this State, Depzdtions
shall be received, opened, endorsed and filed by the clak, in the same ?m.,?'J.'.¢.
manner as depositions taken under a commission.
RULE 50. The party taking any deposition shall upon the same 8i>x3;»;o_
being received and filed by the clerk, give notice thereof to the oppo- ntion.
dw party. All objections of form to any such deposition shall belformsl do~
deemed to be waived unless the same shall be filed in writing, and 5§'2f3é3f"°"
served on the opposite party, within two days after such notiee
.I
D\gmzed by Google
10 LAW RULES.
-::£~;gd RULE5l. When a deposition has been taken by1ither party, it may
WW- at any tune be read by the other party on the tria .
33 W-_ RULE 52. Before the argument of a dernurrer, the party dcmurring
83;- _gf shall furnish the Court with a copy of the causes of demurrer, and
also of the whole or so much as may be necessary of the pleading de4
murred to; and in default thereof the demurrer shall be overruded
ggg;=3**§' RULE 53. Any party who shall have noticed a cause for trial, may
33 '*' be be compelled to proceed to the trial thereof at the term for which the
same was noticed, unless the same is continued on cause shown, and a
compliance with such terms as the Court may impose.
M ;-¥_f°= RULE 54. No motion for the continuance of a cause shallbe heard
g;_§;__':*d'1, after the first day in term, unless a suliicient excuse is shown for the.
of term. delay. And on a second application by a party for the continuance
of a civil cause, and in every application by a. respondent for the oon-
bn pmud. tinuance of a criminal cause, the party so applying shall state, in ad-
dition to the usual requisites, the facts which he expects to prove by
the absent witness, and the diligence he has used to procure hi8 atten-
dance. In case the facts expected to be proved by the absent witness
in a civil cause are admitted by the opposite party, the motion fer a.
continuance shall be denied, unless the Court, for the furtherance
of justice, shall deem a continuance necessary.
0olts,cn RULE 55. When a rule, order or continuance is granted upon pay-
nnunéacl ment of costs, such costs, on being taxed, shall be paid on demand of
: nh the party, his agent or attorney, and if not so paid, on allidavit of
that fact, such rule, order or continuance may be vacated, or the
Court may grant an attachment therefor, with the accruing costs.
Oontlnuaneo RULE: 56. If the party receiving notice of trial shall serve a no-
nnuu tice on the opposite party that he will move for a. oontinulnoe of the
3'3 cause at the term for which it is noticed, together with a copy of the
aiiidavits upon which he intends to found the motion, he shall not be
liable to such party for any costs of preparing to try the cause, ao-
cruing after the service of such notice and ajlidavits, in case a contin-
uance is granted on the papers so served, excepting such as may be
unavoidable.
omna-¢, RULE 57. Previous to each mm the clerk shall prepare two calen-
how made up dars of causes for said term-one for the Court and the other for the
bar. A11 causes in which issues of fact have been joined and notes of
issue Bled, shall be separately arranged under the head of "Issues of
I fact," in the order of the dates of issue. Cases for assessment shdl
D\gmzed by Google
r
LAW RULES. 11
bo arranged separately under the head of " Imparlaneea." Causes in
which issues of law have been joined, under the head of " Issues of
law." All criminal causes in which indictments are pending, under
the head of " Criminal causes." Appeal cases shall be entered among
the issues of fact in the order of ' filing the appeal, in each case
RULE 58. Whenever it shall be necessary in any allidavit to swear .imma of
to the advice of counsel, the party shall, in addition to what has neu- .,.,.:af.¢t€...
ally been inserted, swear that he has fully and fairly stated his case to
his counsel, and shall give the name of such counsel.
Rum: 59. The Prosecuting Attorney shall, at least four days before 331
the first day of term, deliver to the Clerk a list of all such criminal gg-¢;;,_»;,
causes as he intends to bring on to trial, or in which any action of the clerk.
Court may be required.
RULE 60. A party desirous of a trial by jury, shall make his de- ':§',;"'f,'1_
mand for a jury in writing, and file such demand with the Clerk on or mandod.
before the first day of the term for which the cause is noticed for
trial, and at or befgre the Erst call of the calendar; otherwise he shall
be deemed to have waived his right to a jury.
Rm.: 61. On the trial of the cause it shall be the duty of the plain- Partlesto
tilfs counsel, before offering evidence to support the issue on his part,"°""t°»i,li§
to make a full and fair statement of his case, and of' the facts which 5i"&f evi-
he expects to prove. After the evidence is closed on the part of the
plaintiil, and before any evidence is offered on the part of the defence,
a like statement shall be made by the counsel for the defendant.
RULE 62. The plaintiff shall, in all cases except when otherwise Orderofpro-
ordered by the Court, commence the evidence. On the trial of issues 33{»s~ on
of fact, one counsel only on each side shall examine and crossexamine
witnesses. No more than two hours shall be allowed to either side
for the summing up of a cause, unless the Court shall otherwise onder.
RULE 63. Not more than one counsel on each side shall be heard on Mctlonmnot
the argument of any motion; the mover being entitled to open the ar- ;=;;;§° "ggl
gument and to reply to the argument of the opposite attorney. Only §°__'*° uma
one counsel can be heard on any reply.
RULE 64. It shall not be necessary to call the plaintiff when the Noam! not
jury return into court to deliver their verdict; and the plaintiff shall l° §¢b°'&°d
have no right to submit to a non-suit after the jury have retired to submitted-
consider their verdict, or the cause has been submitted to the Court.
RULE 65. When the defendant, in any action founded on contract,
shall plead in abatement the non-joinder of any other person as de
D\gmzed by Google
'I
12 LAW RULEB.'
` PMggw fendnnt, the Court in term time, or the Judge in vacation, may,at
?ggd"3_ <i'~ any time before issue joined on such plea, allow the plaintiif, on such
when. terms as the Court or Judge shall prescribe, to amend his declaratiozr
by inserting therein the name of any other person as defendent and
declaring against him jointly with the original defendant.
}f ;'°» RULE 66. The plaintilf may thereupon take out a writ, in such
broughtln. form'ae the Court or Judge shall prescribe, which shall be in the na.-
ture of a. summons, and shall require the new defendant to appear and
answer as defendant in the original action; and such writ shall be
served as in other cases.
New ddmd- RULE 67. Upon the return of such writ, every person named there~
ants to plead in as defendant, shall be bound to appear and answer with the other
defendants, in the same manner as if they had all been originally
made parties. .
1°gs;;;=§_ RULE 68. If a legal service cannot be made en shy such new de
§:rr3 zd'|*fendant, by reason of his absence from the State or other sullident
served. cause, the action may nevertheless proceed against,all the defendants'
who are duly served, in like manner as provided by law, when one of
several defendants is not duly served with process.
Judgment, RULE 69. Judgment shall be rendered and execution shall issue in
'" .§'$f1,"° every such case, for either party, in the same manner as if the suit.
had been originally commenced against all the defendants.
g r RULE 70. When an action founded on contract, is brought against
gggggg3y' several persons, the-plaintilf may at any time before the final submi.s»
aion of the cause, be allowed to discontinue as against any of the de
fendants, upon the payment of costs to them as in case of non-suit;
and on such other terms as the court shall direct; and the plnintii
may thereupon amend his declaration and proceed against the other
defendants in like manner as if the action had been originally brought
against them alone
Timo, Court RULE 71. The time limited for moving to set aside defaults, or for
iyifligd making defaudts absolute, or for filing motions and reasons for new trial,
motions, ar-
3§gf8"S. or in arrest of judgement, may be shortened or extended by the circuit
couds respectively, in their discretion.
Nevrtrlslon RULE 72. On the argument of motions for new trial, or in arrest of
;;§'w t° judgment, the party making such motion shall furnish the court with
wpyiwm a copy of the reasons on which such motion is founded, and also a.
| brief.
Rum 73. Whenever a stay of proceedings may be necessary in order
D\gmzed by Google
LAW RULES. 18
tom1keaapeoinlmotion,thepre|idingjudgemnygrmtmorderfor:z|»rp¢-
that purpose; M of meh order,1rith copies of thesidsvitaol »-|°"'u.
which it is grounded, md the notice of themxotion, shall operate as a.
stay of prooeedings until the order of the court is land in thepremisea,
unless the judge should in the mean time supersede or set aside such
onder. But the proeeedings shall not be stayed for a longer time than
to enable the party to make his motion according to the practice of
the court, and if made, until the decision of the court thereon.
RULE 74. The clerk shall endorse on every paper the day on which Papers, clerk
to endorse
the same is tiled. And the clerk shall not sulfer or permit any writ, time of Bling
M-
pleading, aidavit, deposition, or other paper whatever, on iile in his Papen, mi
to be tuken oiee, to be taken therefrom without the order of the cow, or s judge fm m tile!
Without or~ thereof; but parties interested in any such, may inspect the same in der.
his cllice, and take copies thereof
Bunn 75. All cases not disposed of at any term shall stand corn ' Cues not
disposed of
tinued to the next term, and shall be considered as continued from it term £9
ltmd can-
term to term, until finally disposed og without any special entry of a. tlnued.
continuance.
Rum: 76. Any party desiring a review by the 8upreme Court, up- Review of
cue tried by on the evidence appearing upon the trial, either of the questions of the Court,
how obtained
fact, or of law,when an issue of fact shall be tried by the court with-
out a jury, may make a bill of exceptions in the same manner and
with the same effect as upon a trial by jury, or a. case containing so
much of the evidence as may be material to the question to be raised.
RULE 77. The party desiring such review, upon a case to be made How sue
made.
under the preceding rule, or under section eleven of " An act to define
the limits, jurisdiction and powers of the Circuit Courts," approved
April 8th, A. D. 1851, shall, unless the same shall be previously
agreed upon by the parties, prepare the ease and serve a copy thereof
on the opposite party within ten days after notice of the judgment;
who may within ten days thereafter prepare amendments thereto,
"and serve a copy on the party who prepared the ease, who shall
then, within four days thereafter, serve the opposite party with a no-
tice to appear within a time specified, (which shall not be less than
.l*
six nor more than twenty days after the service of such notice,) be
fore the Judge who tried the cause, to have the case and amendments
settled The Judge shall thereupon settle the case as he shall deem
consistent with the tmth of the facts. The folios of the ease shall be
sonumbered that each copy shall correspond.
D\gmzed by Google
1
ll LAW RULES.
Wllol mint Rum: 78. If the party omits to make the case within the time above
ll mado.
limited, he shall be deemed to have waived his right thereto; and
where a case is made, and the parties shall omit within the several
times above limited, the one party to prepare amendments and the
other to notify an appearance before the Judge,they shall be respect-
ively deemed, the former to have agreed to the case as proposed, and
the latter to have agreed to the amendments as proposed
Gun, when RULE 79. When a party makes a case, he shall procure the same
w bc mea.
to he filed within ten days after it shall be settled, or it shall be
deemed abandoned
How ro- RULE 80. Cases made or agreed upon for the purpose of review by
moved to
Bupreme the Supreme Court, under the provisions of the preceding rules, may
0ou.rt.
be removed to that Court in the same manner as is provided for the
removal of cases made after judgment, by section ll of "An not to
define the limits, jurisdiction and powers of the Circuit Courts," ap-
proved April 8th 1851. (S. L. 1851, p. 246, § 11.)
lxoeptl0na, RULE 81. Whenever exceptions a.re taken on the trial of a cause
hw made
ma settled. to any deoision or ruling of the Court, the 'party taking such excep-
tions shall prepare a brief statement of so many of the facts as may
be necessary to show the grounds of such exceptions, and to enable
the Court above rightly to understand the same, and shall give no
tice to the opposite party, when and when such exceptions will be
settled by the Circuit Judge, which notice shall be for some day du-
ring the term at which the trial was had, unless the Court or Circuit
Judge shall otherwise order.
To 'hs Bled in RULE 82. At or before the time specified for settling such bill of
ton dry! nf-
tcr settle- exceptions, the party alledging such exceptions shall serve a copy
ment.
thereof upon the opposite party, who may propose amendments thereto
in writing, and the same shall thereupon, or at such other time as he
shall appoint, be settled by the judge according to the facts, and signed
by him, and delivered to the party alledging such exceptions, who
shall file the same with the clerk of the Circuit Court within ten days
thereafter, or in default thereof, shall be deemed to have waived such
exceptions.
coils. RULE 83. Costs in addition to the fees of ollicers and witnesses,
shall be allowed to the prevailing parties in suits at law in the Cir-
cuit Court, as follows:
1. In all actions of ejectment, or other actions involving the ques-
tion of title to real estate, and in all actions for libel, slander, mali-
D\gmzed by Google
4'
LAW RULES. 15
cious prosecution, or criminal conversation, in which an issue of fact
is joined, and where the cause is tried by a jury, the sum of twenty
dollars; and where tried by the Court without a jury, fifteen dollars.
2. In every other kind of civil action at law, in which an issue of
fact is joined, and the cause tried by jury, the sum of fifteen dollars;
and when tried by the Court without a. jury, the sum of ten dollars.
3. In all actions of tort, where a judgment for damages is taken
by default, the sum of ten dollars; and when taken for costs merely,
the sumof eight dollars.
4. In all actions arising upon contract express or implied, where a
judgment for debt or damages is taken by defaudt,the sum of ten dol-
lars; and when taken for costs merely, the sum of ' five dollars.
5. In all cases of wtiomri, demurrer or special motions, such sum
shall be awarded to the prevailing party, as the Cow shall, in view
of the circumstances, deem just.
RULE 84. All rdes not herein contained, are hereby rescinded and Former rules
repealed.
rape ald. e
RULE 85. These rules shall be in force from and after the first day
of April. 1853.
8
D\gmzed by Google
1;
•
•
»
•
D\Qmzed by C.oo3I~"\ /
/
r
INDEX TO LAW RULES.
Abatement, pleas in, when filed, Rwr 24 ,
pleas in, necessary for misnomer, 25
pleas in, amendment after, 65
Acceptance of service to constitute appearance, 20
Admission of attorneys regulated, 1,2 , 3
of genuineness of documents, when to be made, 48
Advice of counsel, how set out in ailidavit, 58
Affidavit of merits necessary after default, 21
for second continuance, what to state, 54
Agents, how appointed, 4
list to be kept, 4
every attorney to have, 4
who may be, 4
when service to be on, 5
Asn* ements to be in writin gs l l
Amendments, when made and on what terms, and how, as, ae
allowed to discontinue against any defendant, 70
after plea in abatement, 65
when allowed to add defendants, 65
Appearance, when and how deemed entered, 10
in suits commenced by writ, when to be entered, 15
when service accepted, 20
Argument of demurrer,papers to be served on, 52
of motion to be by one counsel on each side, 63
of motion, papers to be served on, 72 _
Arrest of judgment, motions for, when made, 32
papers to be served on argument of motion for, 72
Assessment of damages by clerk when excepted to, 19
Attorneys, examination of, 1, 2
reuisites and petitxon for admission, 2
to e sworn and sign the role, 3
fee of admission, 3
to have agents, 4
Bail, when given for appearance, plaintiff may proceed, 20
when 33:ial, not given, papers need notbe served, 20
Billof partie s, practice regulating demand and service, 37, 38, 39
D\gmzed byGoo8Ie _.A 5
18 INDEX.
Books, discovery may 'be ordered 013 Ruk 40
when produced under order to have same eifect as on notice, 47
Calendar, how and when made up, 57
Capias, bail on, necessary to entitle defendant to service, 20
Cases to be continued unless disposed of, 75
made, how reviewed, 76, 77, 80
made, how prepared and settled, 77
if not made in time when waived, 78
to be Bled in ten days, 79
how removed to Supreme Court, 80
Chancery, principles og to govern in discovery, 43
' Clerk to give certificate of admission to the bar, 3
to keep list of agents, 4
assessment by, when excepted to, 19
to file and endorse papers, 74
to keep them in his custody, 74
Common rules, what, and how entered, 13
rude book, 13
Computation of time, how made, 14
Consent rules to be in writing, II
Contempt, personal service required to bring party into, 6
Continuance, motion for, when made, and requisites to obtain, 54
motion for, after notice of trial to stop costs, 56
of cases undisposed of 75
Costs of preparing for trial mf? allowed after motion for continuance, 56
what to be allowed in various cases, 83
Counsel, advice of, how set forth, 58
only one may examine witnesses, 62
only one may argue motions, 63
Criminal cases to be noticed by Prosecuting Attorney, 59
Damages assessed on defaudt, za
Declaration, when Bled in suits commenced by writ, 15
amendment of; 35
amendment of, to add defendants, 65
Defadt, entry og 21
plea not to be accepted after, 21
made absolute, 23
damages assessed on, 23
when motion made to set aside, 27
Defendant, when entitled to service of papers, 8
, when deemed to have appeared, 10
to furnish particulars of set oi, 39
new, when and how brought in, 65, 66, 67, 68
new, judgment in case ot, how renderd, 69
any may be discontinued against, 70
Demurrer to notice of special matter, 16
form 04 17
to specify grounds, 34
papers furnished on argument 01; 52
Depositions to be filed and opened, 49
notice to be given of filing, 50~
formal objections to, must be filed in two days, 50
D\g\t\zed by Google
4*
INDEX. 19
De odtion of one party to be read by the other, Ruk 51
Di8tory pleas when filed, 24.
Diaoontinuanee, entry of, 26
allowed as to any defendants, 70
Disoove when and how compelled, 40, 41
QL to be specified in petition for, 41
what to be specified in rule for, 42
to be governed by principles of ohancery, 43
oosts on, 43
when orders for, to be vacated, 44
neglect to obey order for, how punished, 46
effect of papers &c., produced on, 47
Documents, effect of, when produced under order for discovery, 47
genuineness of, to be admitted when, 48
English forms of declaration may be used, 18
Examination of attorneys, 17 2
Exceptions to assessment of damages by elak, 19
to case made, 76
practice on making and settling, 81, 82
Executions when returnable, 12
Form of demurrer and joinder, 17
of general issue, 17
of deelaration,what may be used, 18»
Formal objections to depositions must be filed and served, 50
' Former rdes repealed, 84
General issue, how made, 17
Genuineness of papers &c., to be admitted, 48
Instanter, act to be performed in 24 hours, 14
Issue general, form og 17,
Joinder in demurrer, form 01; 17
Judgment, motion in arrest of, when made,. 32
papers furnished on hearing of, 72
Jury, how and when demanded, 60
Mail, when service to be by, 5
service by, on party not an attorney, s
service by, how made, and time on, 9
Misnomer must be pleaded in abateement, 25
Motions to set aside defaudt when made, 27'
not allowed to set aside proceedings for misnomer, 25
papers to be iled and served on special, 28
special to be entered and reasons sxgned in motion book, 29
how heard, 29
when argued, 30:
for new trial, when made, 31
in arrest of judgment when made, 32
to be in writing, 33.
for continuance, when made, and requisifes, 54
costs on, 55, 83
for continuance after notice of trial, to stop costs when, 56
one counsel to argue on each side, 63
time for, may be changed, 71
papers furnished on hearing, 72
D\gmzed by Google
20 INDEX.
New trial, motions for, when made, Ruk 81
papers furnished on hearing of motion for, 72
Nonjoinder on plea of, plaintilf may amend, 65
Nonsuit not allowed after case submitted, 64
Notices must be in writing, 6
on whom served, 6
how served, 7
of retainer to be an appearance, 10
of special matter, when given and what to con main, 16
of special matter, may be demurred to, 16
to be given of filing depositions, 50
of trial, to compel party giving them to trial, 53
of trial, effect of motion for continuance after, 56
of settling &c. exceptions, 81, 82
Objections to form of de ositions must be made when and how, P 50
Orders, time on how computed 1 14
for discovery, what to specify, 42
for discovery, when vacated, 44
for discovery, to operate as stay of proceedings, 45
for discovery, eEect of neglect to obey, 46
for discovery, eifect of books &c. produced under, 47
costs on, 55, 83
Original writ, proceedings in suits commenced by, 15
Papers, how served, 7
genuineness to be admitted on demand, 48
to be furnished on argument of demurrer, 52
to be furnished on argument of motion, 72
to be endorsed and Bled and kept in C1erk's 08%, 74
Particulars, bill of when to be served, 37
time to plead &c. after service of, 37
if not served plaintiif to be non-suited 37
of set oii, when permitted, 39
of set oif, if not served, testimony excluded, 3g
of set 03; time to reply after service of, 39
Party who is attorney, how served, 6
not an attorney, how served, 8
not appearing, when entitled to service, 8
Personal service, when required, 6
Petition for discovery, to whom and when presented, 40
statements of and how verified, 41
Plaintiff cannot submit to non-suit after case submitted, 64
not to be called to hear verdict, 64
Pleadings, when to be filed, &c., 15
amendments of, 35
Pleas in abatement, when Med 24
Postage to be prepaid on service by mail, 9
Proceedings, order for discovery to stay, 45
stay of, how granted, 73
Prosecuting Attorne to notice criminal cases, 59
Repeal of former mils, 84
Replication of special matters to be by notice, 16
Retainer, notice of to be deemed an appearance, 10
D\gmzed by Google
D'
INDEX. 21
Review of case made, Ruk 76
Rules, by consent to be entered, 11
common and special, what and how entered, 13
book of common, 13
time on, how computed, 14
for discovery, what to specify, 42
former repealed, 84
Service, when on agent, 56
when by mail, 56
when personal, 6
how made, 7
on sherilf or jailor for defendant, 8
on party not an attorney, 8
by mail, how made and time on, 9
computation of time on, 14
of papers to be made on special motions, 28
Set OE, particulars of may be demanded, 39
if not served evidence excluded, 39
Special rules, what and how entered, 13
matter, notice to be given of in all cases, 16
matter, notice to be annexed to pleas and replications, 16
motions, papers to be filed and served on, 28
motion book to be kept, 329
motions to be entered Wlth reasons and signed, 29
Statement of case to be made on, 61
Stay of proceedings, order for discovery to be, 45
how granted, 73
Stipulation to be in writing, ll
Time, how computed on orders, &c., 14
for motions, orders, &c., may be extended or changed, 71
Trial, party noticing may be force to proceed, 54
motion for continuance after notice of, how to aifect costs, 56
by jury, how obtained, 60
parties to state case on, 61
order of evidence on, 62
only one counsel to examine witness, 62
time of summing up, 62
Verdict, plaintiff not to be called to hear. 64
Writs, when issued, 12
when returnable, 12
pleadings in suits commenced by, 15
Writing, agreements &c. to be in. 11
motions to be in. 33
D\gmzed by ed
•
o
I
|
/
1..
Jn/GOOQIC
9 .Ja J._ \ - ' -.». . u\4J\~A»».»o¢|a1
g
sUPRE1E COURT RULES.
RULE 1. Every attorney shall have an agent in each place where Am eyn to
hsvorzgenta. there is a Supreme Court held in this state, except in the city or town
where such attorney keeps his ollice. No person shall be an agent
unless he be an attorney of the Court, clerk of the Court, or deputy
clerk The appointment of agents shall be made in writing, signed
by the attorney, and tiled in the clerk's odice; and the clerk shall keep
a catalogue of the appointments Med in the oilice, with the attorneys'
names, alphabetically arranged.
RULE 2. Where the attorney for the adverse party resides more Service of
pa. ers on
than two miles from the place of holding court, service of papers con- whrm and.
how mldov
templafed by these rules may be made on an agent; but if he has no
such agent, such service may be made by putting the notice or papers
in the post ohiee, directed to the attorney at his place of residence, to
be ascertained according to the best information and belief of the
person making such service.
RULE 3. All notices shall be. in writing, and shall be served on the Notices to In
in wrlti ng, attorney in the cause, or his agent; and where a party who is also an and how
served.
attorney of this court, shall prosecute in person, or, if a defendant,
shall give notice that he is an attorney, and will defend in person, all
notices and other papers shall be served on him in like manner; and
where the object is tc bring the party into contempt for disobeying Service bo bc
personal to
any rule or order of the court, the service shall be on such party per- bring party
into con-
sonally, unless otherwise specially ordered by the court tempt.
RULE 4. Notices and papers may be served on an attorney, or his Papen, 884
how served.
agent, by leaving the same with him or his agent, or with his clerk in
his olice, or with a person having charge thereof ; or when no person
is to be found in the oiiiee, by leaving the same, between the hours of
9
D\gmzed by Google
2 SUPREME COURT RULES.
six in the morning and nine in the evening, in some suitable and oon-
spicuous place in such office; or if the 'oBice be not open so as to ad-
mit of service therein, then by leaving the same at the Attorney's
residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
Service when RULE 5. Where 1 party, other than z Attorney of this Court,
¥e`&3'3§»~=- prosecutes or defends in person, the service of papers may be on such
son.
party personally, or by putting the same ho post odice, directed
No service to him at his place of residence. And no service of papers in the
l`,`i°§,.d¢'\Z$a¢ ordinary proceedings in a cause shall be necessary to be made on a
appear. defendant who has not appeared therein, and given notice to the plain-
tili"s attorney of his intention to defend the suit.
Agreements RULE 6. No private agreement or consent between the parties or
to be in md-
ting. their attorneys, in respect to the proceedings in a cause,sha1l bebind-
ing unless the same shall have been reduced to the form of a rude by
consent, and entered accordingly in the book of special rules, or
unless evidence thereof shall be in writing, subscribed by the party or
his attorney, against whom the same shall be alleged.
Time, how RULE 7. The day on which any rule shall be entered, or order, no~
§2"iL`1°§i',,.'l tice, pleading or paper served, shall he excluded in the computation
8" olden, of the time for complying with the exigency of such rude, order or no-
tice, pleading or paper, and the day on which a compliance therewith
is required shall be included, except where it shall fall on a Sunday,
in which case the party shall have the next day to comply therewith.
When by the terms of any order an act is directed to be performed
instanter, it shall be done in twenty-four hours.
Olerkto en- RULE 8. The clerk shall endorse on every paper the day on which
8838 328' the same .is filed. Parties must take notice of the filing of papers at
8m°£"h their peril; and the clerk shall not suEer or permit any writ, pleading,
affidavit, deposition, or other paper whatever, on Hle in his olhce, to
be taken therefrom without the order of the Court, or one of the
Judges thereof, or by consent in writing of the Attorneys of the par-
ties; but parties interested in any such may inspect the same in his
oliice, and take copies thereo£
Special mo- RULE 9. Each of the clerks of the Supreme Court shall have a
§,§'i»'I»'i°" to book to be denominated the special motion book, in which the Attor-
neys shall enter all special modons and rules.
spewn mo- RULE 10. In all cases of special motions, the allidavits and other
3232* "°&" .papers on which the same may be founded, shall be iled at the time
argued.
of making the motion, and copies thereof shall be served on the op-
D\gmzed by GOO8 Ie
SUPREME COURT RULES. 3
posits party or his Attorney, on or before the day of making such
motion; and no motion which is resisted shall be argued on the day
it is made without the consent of parties, unless the court, on good
cause being shown, otherwise direct.
RULE ll. In all cases of writs of error or certiorari, it shall be the T1,';';'3'¢'3f»
duty of the plaintilf in error to cause a transcript of the record or
proceedings in the court below to be Bled in the office of the clerk of
the Supreme Court within forty days after such writ of error or cer-
tiorari shall be issued, if so many days intervene before the first
day of thc succeeding term of such court, but if not, then such tran-
script to he filed on or before the first day of such term.
RULE 12. It shall be the duty of the plaintiff in error, in all cases Enigrsegp be
of writs of error and certiorari, to file a special assignment of error when.
within ten days after the expiration of said forty days after the filing
of any further return which either party may procure in the cause, if
so many days intervene before the first day of the succeeding term of
the Supreme Court, and if not, then on the first day of said term,
and serve a copy thereof on the defendant or defendants in error, or
his or their attorney in the court below, unless, previously, notice of
retainer shall have been received from some other Attorney. And no
judgment or proceeding shall be reversed or annulled for any other
defect or error than such as may be thus specially assigned.
RULE 13. The defendant in error shall plead to such assignment Plelding to
of errors within ten days after service of a copy thereof; when the §?"L€.°,§"°
same shall be served in vacation, if so many days intervene before
term; and if not, or if served in term time, within two days from
such service, and serve a copy of such pleading on the plaintiff in
error.
RULE 14. If the plaintiff in error shall fail to Hle such transcript, Practice on
or to assign errors as herein provided, within the time therefor lim- '?g'"¥,'i?3,"'
ited, the defendant in error, at his option, may have the cause docket- 1'l§3'.3='.§'¢.°"
ed and dismissed with costs, or may himself file the transcript and
have such judgment duly affirmed. And if the defendant in error
fail to plead to said assignment within the time therefor limited, the
plaintiff in error shall be entitled to proceed ez parte therein.
RULE 15. If either party in cases of writs of error or certiorari Fnrtherre-
shall consider the record or transcript filed imperfect, when the same 'lmél oy z
is Hled in vacation, he or they may, within ten days thereafter, if so f.'iZ,~'if€ md.
many days intervene before the first day of the succeeding term of
D\gmzed by Google
4 SUPREME COURT RULES.
the Supreme Court, and if not, then on the iirst day of such term, en-
ter a rule in the special motion book, requiring the court or oEoer
before or by whom the proceedings below were conducted, to make
further return according to the requirements of such rule, within ten
days after service of a copy thereof, on such court or ollicer, and which
service shall be made within three days after the entry of such rule.
Rule for fur- RULE 16. The party serving a copy of such rule shall annex thereto ther return.
how enforced a notice requiring the court or oBioer on whom the same is served, in
case such rule is not duly complied with, to appear before the 8u-
preme Court on the first day of the next term thereof, to show cause
why an attachment shall not issue against him. And on proof of
the service of such notice and a copy of such de, if no suficient
cause be shovm to the contrary, an attachment shall issue accordingly.
Tnnscript RULE 17. In all cases of appeals from Chancery, the appellant
on 8|)PY&l
from Ohm- shall cause the transcript of the record or proceedings in the court
cery, when
Bled. below to be filed with the c1erk~of the Supreme Court on or before
the first day of the term of such court succeeding the filing of the ap-
peal bond in such cause, and in default of so doing, the appellee may
at his option have the cause docketed and dismissed with costs, or
proceed ex parte therein.
Appealavhen RUL .E 18. In order to entitle an appellee to have an appeal dock-
dismissed. eted and dismissed under these rules, it will be necessary for him to
produce to the court, a, certificate from the Register, stating and cer-
tifying the time when the decree complained of had been made, and
the appeal taken and allowed, and whether an appeal bond had been
duly filed, and when approved o£
Printed casa RULE 19. The party removing a cause into the Supreme Court, by
to be fur»
nished, and writ of error, appeal, certiorari, case made, or otherwise, and in eases
how made.
reserved, the plaintif below, shall prepare a case for the use of the
court and counsel, which shall contain the whole,cr, if the ease be
voluminous, an abstract of the record, case, or proceedings upon
which the case is to be heard. All cases and points furnished to the
court on the argument of causes,shalI be printed on white writing
paper, with a margin at the outer edge of the leaf not less than one
and a half inches wide; the printed page, exclusive of any marginal
note or referenee,shal1 he seven inches long, and three and a half
inches wide. The folio, numbering from the commencement to the
end of the case, shall be printed on the outer margin of the page.
RULE 20. At the commencement of the argument, the party re-
D\gmzed by Google
c
SUPREME COURT RULES. 5
quired to prepare the case by the preoeding rule, shall furnish a Cano and
goints to be
printed copy thereof to each of the Judges, to the reporter, and to arniahed
Court, Re-
the opposite party. Each party shall at the same time, furnish to porter and
ld vom
counsel. each of the Judges, and to his adversary, and to the reporter, a printed
copy of the points on which he intends to rely, with a reference to
the authorities which he intends to cite.
RULE 21. The necessary expenses of printing the case and points Expense of
printing
to be taxed required by the preceding rules, may be taxed as disbursements in as dlsbune-
menu. nivor of the party prevailing in the cause.
RULE 22. In the argument of causes, the opening shall be confined Pmme on
argument of
to one counsel,who shall be restricted in time to two hours. The an- causes.
swer to be confined to two counsel, and the whole time occupied in
such answer shall not exceed four hours. The reply to be coniined to
one counsel, who shall be restricted in time to two hours; and in no
case shall any more counsel be heard, or time occupied in the argu-
ment of causes, unless by permission of the court on application and
cause shown before the argument of- the cause is commenced.
RULE 23. In ca~es where a writ of error shall be brought by one Parties not
joinln¥ in
or more of several parties, it shall not be necessary to sue out a sum _ writo enor
"Y be com-
pel ed to mons with a view to ascertain whether the other parties will join or elect by rule
sever in the proceedings in error , but at the time of taking out the writ
of error, the party by whom it is sued out shall enter a rule in the
common rule book, to be kept by the clerk of this court,requiring the
other parties to join in said writ of error within thirty days from the
When
time of the service of a copy of said writ of error, and a notice of such deemed to
lmve severed
rule, and to ile with the clerk of this court a written statement that
they assent to such writ of error, and that they join in the same
within said thirty days, or in default thereof that they shall be deemed
to have severed and declined to join in said writ.
RULE 24. Such copy of writ and notice of rule may be served by How rule to
be served.
delivering the same to the parties to be alfected thereby, personally,
or by leaving the same at their respective residences with some mem-
.ber of their families; or, in case of their residence in another State,
by serving on their attorney in the original suit; or, if' they have no
attorney, by sending the same to them through the post ofiice.
RULE 25. The party suing out the writ of error shall have sixty Timo within
which aer-
days from the time of its issue, and no longer, in which to make serv- vice to be
m ad e an d
ice of the copies thereof and notice of such rule as aforesaid; and at severance
completed.
or before the expiration of said sixty days, it shall be the duty of
f
D\gmzed by Google
6 SUPREME OUURT RULES.
such party to enter in said common rule book, a rule specifying the
service of such writ and notice, and the name of the party on whose
behalf the writ of error is to be further prosecuted, and that such
party have leave to prosecute it severally.
3'3-gg.~1 RULE 26. After the entry of such rule, the plaintiff in error shall
3_3°;;=<;_-f have the same time to Hle the transcript in error and the assignment
'*f'*°"°'°* of errors, as is now provided in the rndes for such filing and assign-
ment in ordinary cases, where all parties join originally in suing out
such writ.
-Y}§;.f,;2;E RULE 27. If the party suing out such writ of error shall neglect
?§?"w2gj '"" to enter such rule, or to make such service as is above required, the
writ of error shall be deemed to he discontinued, and the opposite
party shall be entitled to have the same doeketed and dismissed, un-
less the court, for cause shown, shall otherwise direct.
Defenhnt RULE 28. If the defendant in error, with a view to expedite the
M proceedings, shall procure the written statement required by the
*U writ. twenty-third rule, and serve the same on the party suing out the writ
of error, it shall be the duty of the plaintilf in error, within eight days
thereafter, to enter the rude or order in the common rude book, under
the twenty-fifth rule.
RULE 29. The said rules, from the twenty-third to the twenty~
eighth inclusive, shall apply to write of certiorari as well as to writs
of error.
Prose!! in RULE 30. Upon the filing of an infomation in the nature of a gun
q 4:0 warm wawanto, a wut of summons shall lssue under the seal of the Court,
directed to the Sheriff of any county in the State, where the person
or corporation to be summoned may be found, which shall be served
and returned in like manner as in personal actions.
When love- RULE 31. In case there are several persons against whom said infor-
§I.".';"" w mation is filed residing in diiferent counties, several writs may be is-
sued, and made returnable at the same time.
A tance, RULE 32. Upon the return of such summons dudy served on any
w eu 811'
tered and defendant, he shall cause his appearance to be entered with the proper
how
clerk, by a rule in the common rule book, within twenty days after
the return day of said summons,and notice thereof served on the At-
torney General, or judgment by default may be entered.
RULE 33. If the defendant shall cause his appearance to be entered,
Pleadings within the time limited by the foregoing rule, and notice thereof to
383' mba be served on the Attorney General, a copy of said information shall
D\gmzed by Google
I
SUPREME COURT RULES. 7
be served upon him or his attorneys within ten days theredter; and
the said defendant shall plead to said infomation within twenty days
after the service of such copy. All subsequent pleadings shall res-
pectively be filed within fifteen days each after the other until issues
of fact or law be joined.
RULE 34. In cases not already provided for, the practice of the Pnetleeon'
court upon appeals from Chancery shall be conformable to that of the °PP°°'°~
House of Lords, in England, when sitting as a court of appeals.
RULE 35. All rudes of the Supreme Court, not herein contained,
are repealed
RULE 36. These rules shall take effect and be in force from and
after the first day of April, 1853.
9
D\gmzed by Google
